He laughed. "Your theory is that a man ought to be able to return to the Muse as he comes back
to his wife after he's ceased to interest other women?"

"No; as he comes back to his wife after the day's work is done." A new thought came to me as
I looked at him. "You ought to have had one," I added.

He laughed again. "A wife, you mean? So that there'd have been some one waiting for me even
if the Muse decamped?" He went on after a pause: "I've a notion that the kind of woman worth
coming back to wouldn't be much more patient than the Muse. But as it happens I never tried--because,
for fear they'd chuck me, I put them both out of doors together."

He turned his head and looked past me with a queer expression at the low panelled door at my
back. "Out of that very door they went--the two of 'em, on a rainy night like this: and one
stopped and looked back, to see if I wasn't going to call her--and I didn't--and so they both
went...."

III

"The Muse?" (said Merrick, refilling my glass and stooping to pat the terrier as he went back
to his chair)--"well, you've met the Muse in the little volume of sonnets you used to like;
and you've met the woman too, and you used to like her; though you didn't know her when you
saw her the other evening....

"No, I won't ask you how she struck you when you talked to her: I know. She struck you like
that stuff I gave you to read last night She's conformed--I've conformed--the mills have caught
us and ground us: ground us, oh, exceedingly small!

"But you remember what she was; and that's the reason why I'm telling you this now....

"You may recall that after my father's death I tried to sell the Works. I was impatient to
free myself from anything that would keep me tied to New York. I don't dislike my trade, and
I've made, in the end, a fairly good thing of it; but industrialism was not, at that time,
in the line of my tastes, and I know now that it wasn't what I was meant for. Above all, I
wanted to get away, to see new places and rub up against different ideas. I had reached a time
of life--the top of the first hill, so to speak--where the distance draws one, and everything
in the foreground seems tame and stale. I was sick to death of the particular set of conformities
I had grown up among; sick of being a pleasant popular young man with a long line of dinners
on my list, and the dead certainty of meeting the same people, or their prototypes, at all of them.

"Well--I failed to sell the Works, and that increased my discontent. I went through moods of
cold unsociability, alternating with sudden flushes of curiosity, when I gloated over stray
scraps of talk overheard in railway stations and omnibuses, when strange faces that I passed
in the street tantalized me with fugitive promises. I wanted to be among things that were unexpected
and unknown; and it seemed to me that nobody about me understood in the least what I felt,
but that somewhere just out of reach there was some one who did, and whom I must find or despair....

"It was just then that, one evening, I saw Mrs. Trant for the first time.

"Yes: I know--you wonder what I mean. I'd known her, of course, as a girl; I'd met her several
times after her marriage; and I'd lately been thrown with her, quite intimately and continuously,
during a succession of country-house visits. But I had never, as it happened, really seen her....

"It was at a dinner at the Cumnors'; and there she was, in front of the very tapestry we saw
her against the other evening, with people about her, and her face turned from me, and nothing
noticeable or different in her dress or manner; and suddenly she stood out for me against the
familiar unimportant background, and for the first time I saw a meaning in the stale phrase
of a picture's walking out of its frame. For, after all, most people are just that to us: pictures,
furniture, the inanimate accessories of our little island-area of sensation. And then sometimes
one of these graven images moves and throws out live filaments toward us, and the line they
make draws us across the world as the moon-track seems to draw a boat across the water....

"There she stood; and as this queer sensation came over me I felt that she was looking steadily
at me, that her eyes were voluntarily, consciously resting on me with the weight of the very
question I was asking.

"I went over and joined her, and she turned and walked with me into the music-room. Earlier
in the evening some one had been singing, and there were low lights there, and a few couples
still sitting in those confidential corners of which Mrs. Cumnor has the art; but we were under
no illusion as to the nature of these presences. We knew that they were just painted in, and
that the whole of life was in us two, flowing back and forward between us. We talked, of course;
we had the attitudes, even the words, of the others: I remember her telling me her plans for
the spring and asking me politely about mine! As if there were the least sense in plans, now
that this thing had happened!

"When we went back into the drawing-room I had said nothing to her that I might not have said
to any other woman of the party; but when we shook hands I knew we should meet the next day--and
the next....

"That's the way, I take it, that Nature has arranged the beginning of the great enduring loves;
and likewise of the little epidermal flurries. And how is a man to know where he is going?

"From the first my feeling for Paulina Trant seemed to me a grave business; but then the Enemy
is given to producing that illusion. Many a man--I'm talking of the kind with imagination--has
thought he was seeking a soul when all he wanted was a closer view of its tenement. And I tried--honestly
tried--to make myself think I was in the latter case. Because, in the first place, I didn't,
just then, want a big disturbing influence in my life; and because I didn't want to be a dupe;
and because Paulina Trant was not, according to hearsay, the kind of woman for whom it was
worth while to bring up the big batteries....

"But my resistance was only half-hearted. What I really felt--all I really felt--was the flood
of joy that comes of heightened emotion. She had given me that, and I wanted her to give it
to me again. That's as near as I've ever come to analyzing my state in the beginning.

"I knew her story, as no doubt you know it: the current version, I mean. She had been poor
and fond of enjoyment, and she had married that pompous stick Philip Trant because she needed
a home, and perhaps also because she wanted a little luxury. Queer how we sneer at women for
wanting the thing that gives them half their attraction!

"People shook their heads over the marriage, and divided, prematurely, into Philip's partisans
and hers: for no one thought it would work. And they were almost disappointed when, after all,
it did. She and her wooden consort seemed to get on well enough. There was a ripple, at one
time, over her friendship with young Jim Dalham, who was always with her during a summer at
Newport and an autumn in Italy; then the talk died out, and she and Trant were seen together,
as before, on terms of apparent good-fellowship.

"This was the more surprising because, from the first, Paulina had never made the least attempt
to change her tone or subdue her colours. In the gray Trant atmosphere she flashed with prismatic
fires. She smoked, she talked subversively, she did as she liked and went where she chose,
and danced over the Trant prejudices and the Trant principles as if they'd been a ball-room
floor; and all without apparent offence to her solemn husband and his cloud of cousins. I believe
her frankness and directness struck them dumb. She moved like a kind of primitive Una through
the virtuous rout, and never got a finger-mark on her freshness.

"One of the finest things about her was the fact that she never, for an instant, used her situation
as a means of enhancing her attraction. With a husband like Trant it would have been so easy!
He was a man who always saw the small sides of big things. He thought most of life compressible
into a set of by-laws and the rest unmentionable; and with his stiff frock-coated and tall-hatted
mind, instinctively distrustful of intelligences in another dress, with his arbitrary classification
of whatever he didn't understand into 'the kind of thing I don't approve of,' 'the kind of
thing that isn't done,' and--deepest depth of all--'the kind of thing I'd rather not discuss,'
he lived in bondage to a shadowy moral etiquette of which the complex rites and awful penalties
had cast an abiding gloom upon his manner.

"A woman like his wife couldn't have asked a better foil; yet I'm sure she never consciously
used his dullness to relieve her brilliancy. She may have felt that the case spoke for itself.
But I believe her reserve was rather due to a lively sense of justice, and to the rare habit
(you said she was rare) of looking at facts as they are, without any throwing of sentimental
lime-lights. She knew Trant could no more help being Trant than she could help being herself--and
there was an end of it. I've never known a woman who 'made up' so little mentally....

"Perhaps her very reserve, the fierceness of her implicit rejection of sympathy, exposed her
the more to--well, to what happened when we met. She said afterward that it was like having
been shut up for months in the hold of a ship, and coming suddenly on deck on a day that was
all flying blue and silver....

"I won't try to tell you what she was. It's easier to tell you what her friendship made of
me; and I can do that best by adopting her metaphor of the ship. Haven't you, sometimes, at
the moment of starting on a journey, some glorious plunge into the unknown, been tripped up
by the thought: 'If only one hadn't to come back'? Well, with her one had the sense that one
would never have to come back; that the magic ship, would always carry one farther. And what
an air one breathed on it! And, oh, the wind, and the islands, and the sunsets!

"I said just now 'her friendship'; and I used the word advisedly. Love is deeper than friendship,
but friendship is a good deal wider. The beauty of our relation was that it included both dimensions.
Our thoughts met as naturally as our eyes: it was almost as if we loved each other because
we liked each other. The quality of a love may be tested by the amount of friendship it contains,
and in our case there was no dividing line between loving and liking, no disproportion between
them, no barrier against which desire beat in vain or from which thought fell back unsatisfied.
Ours was a robust passion that could give an open-eyed account of itself, and not a beautiful
madness shrinking away from the proof....

"For the first months friendship sufficed us, or rather gave us so much by the way that we
were in no hurry to reach what we knew it was leading to. But we were moving there nevertheless,
and one day we found ourselves on the borders. It came about through a sudden decision of Trant's
to start on a long tour with his wife. We had never foreseen that: he seemed rooted in his
New York habits and convinced that the whole social and financial machinery of the metropolis
would cease to function if he did not keep an eye on it through the columns of his morning
paper, and pronounce judgment on it in the afternoon at his club. But something new had happened
to him: he caught a cold, which was followed by a touch of pleurisy, and instantly he perceived
the intense interest and importance which ill-health may add to life. He took the fullest advantage
of it. A discerning doctor recommended travel in a warm climate; and suddenly, the morning
paper, the afternoon club, Fifth Avenue, Wall Street, all the complex phenomena of the metropolis,
faded into insignificance, and the rest of the terrestrial globe, from being a mere geographical
hypothesis, useful in enabling one to determine the latitude of New York, acquired reality
and magnitude as a factor in the convalescence of Mr. Philip Trant.

"His wife was absorbed in preparations for the journey. To move him was like mobilizing an
army, and weeks before the date set for their departure it was almost as if she were already gone.

"This foretaste of separation showed us what we were to each other. Yet I was letting her go--and
there was no help for it, no way of preventing it. Resistance was as useless as the vain struggles
in a nightmare. She was Trant's and not mine: part of his luggage when he travelled as she
was part of his household furniture when he stayed at home....

"The day she told me that their passages were taken--it was on a November afternoon, in her
drawing-room in town--I turned away from her and, going to the window, stood looking out at
the torrent of traffic interminably pouring down Fifth Avenue. I watched the senseless machinery
of life revolving in the rain and mud, and tried to picture myself performing my small function
in it after she had gone from me.

"'It can't be--it can't be!' I exclaimed.

"'What can't be?'

"I came back into the room and sat down by her. 'This--this--' I hadn't any words. 'Two weeks!'
I said. 'What's two weeks?"

"She answered, vaguely, something about their thinking of Spain for the spring--

"'Two weeks--two weeks!' I repeated. 'And the months we've lost--the days that belonged to us!'

"'Yes,' she said, 'I'm thankful it's settled.'

"Our words seemed irrelevant, haphazard. It was as if each were answering a secret voice, and
not what the other was saying.

"'Don't you feel anything at all?' I remember bursting out at her. As I asked it the tears
were streaming down her face. I felt angry with her, and was almost glad to note that her lids
were red and that she didn't cry becomingly. I can't express my sensation to you except by
saying that she seemed part of life's huge league against me. And suddenly I thought of an
afternoon we had spent together in the country, on a ferny hill-side, when we had sat under
a beech-tree, and her hand had lain palm upward in the moss, close to mine, and I had watched
a little black-and-red beetle creeping over it....

"The bell rang, and we heard the voice of a visitor and the click of an umbrella in the umbrella-stand.

"She rose to go into the inner drawing-room, and I caught her suddenly by the wrist. 'You understand,'
I said, 'that we can't go on like this?'

"'I understand,' she answered, and moved away to meet her visitor. As I went out I heard her
saying in the other room: 'Yes, we're really off on the twelfth.'"

IV

"I wrote her a long letter that night, and waited two days for a reply.

"On the third day I had a brief line saying that she was going to spend Sunday with some friends
who had a place near Riverdale, and that she would arrange to see me while she was there. That
was all.

"It was on a Saturday that I received the note and I came out here the same night. The next
morning was rainy, and I was in despair, for I had counted on her asking me to take her for
a drive or a long walk. It was hopeless to try to say what I had to say to her in the drawing-room
of a crowded country-house. And only eleven days were left!

"I stayed indoors all the morning, fearing to go out lest she should telephone me. But no sign
came, and I grew more and more restless and anxious. She was too free and frank for coquetry,
but her silence and evasiveness made me feel that, for some reason, she did not wish to hear
what she knew I meant to say. Could it be that she was, after all, more conventional, less
genuine, than I had thought? I went again and again over the whole maddening round of conjecture;
but the only conclusion I could rest in was that, if she loved me as I loved her, she would
be as determined as I was to let no obstacle come between us during the days that were left.

"The luncheon-hour came and passed, and there was no word from her. I had ordered my trap to
be ready, so that I might drive over as soon as she summoned me; but the hours dragged on,
the early twilight came, and I sat here in this very chair, or measured up and down, up and
down, the length of this very rug--and still there was no message and no letter.

"It had grown quite dark, and I had ordered away, impatiently, the servant who came in with
the lamps: I couldn't bear any definite sign that the day was over! And I was standing there
on the rug, staring at the door, and noticing a bad crack in its panel, when I heard the sound
of wheels on the gravel. A word at last, no doubt--a line to explain.... I didn't seem to care
much for her reasons, and I stood where I was and continued to stare at the door. And suddenly
it opened and she came in.

"The servant followed her with a light, and then went out and closed the door. Her face looked
pale in the lamplight, but her voice was as clear as a bell.

"'Well,' she said, 'you see I've come.'

"I started toward her with hands outstretched. 'You've come--you've come!' I stammered.

"Yes; it was like her to come in that way--without dissimulation or explanation or excuse.
It was like her, if she gave at all, to give not furtively or in haste, but openly, deliberately,
without stinting the measure or counting the cost. But her quietness and serenity disconcerted
me. She did not look like a woman who has yielded impetuously to an uncontrollable impulse.
There was something almost solemn in her face.

"The effect of it stole over me as I looked at her, suddenly subduing the huge flush of gratified
longing.

"'You're here, here, here!' I kept repeating, like a child singing over a happy word.

"'You said,' she continued, in her grave clear voice, 'that we couldn't go on as we were--'

"'Ah, it's divine of you!' I held out my arms to her.

"She didn't draw back from them, but her faint smile said, 'Wait,' and lifting her hands she
took the pins from her hat, and laid the hat on the table.

"As I saw her dear head bare in the lamp-light, with the thick hair waving away from the parting,
I forgot everything but the bliss and wonder of her being here--here, in my house, on my hearth--that
fourth rose from the corner of the rug is the exact spot where she was standing....

"I drew her to the fire, and made her sit down in the chair you're in, and knelt down by her,
and hid my face on her knees. She put her hand on my head, and I was happy to the depths of
my soul.

"'Oh, I forgot--' she exclaimed suddenly. I lifted my head and our eyes met. Hers were smiling.

"She reached out her hand, opened the little bag she had tossed down with her hat, and drew
a small object from it. 'I left my trunk at the station. Here's the check. Can you send for
it?' she asked.

"Her trunk--she wanted me to send for her trunk! Oh, yes--I see your smile, your 'lucky man!'
Only, you see, I didn't love her in that way. I knew she couldn't come to my house without
running a big risk of discovery, and my tenderness for her, my impulse to shield her, was stronger,
even then, than vanity or desire. Judged from the point of view of those emotions I fell terribly
short of my part. I hadn't any of the proper feelings. Such an act of romantic folly was so
unlike her that it almost irritated me, and I found myself desperately wondering how I could
get her to reconsider her plan without--well, without seeming to want her to.

