Ulf's face flushed scarlet, and into his eyes leaped a joyous light. Yet he said only,

"The son of a jarl needs a larger measure, else will men say, 'good as a dagger, but short
for a sword.'"

And the grim war-captains around, who knew the difference, nodded assent and said the word
was wise. Yet thought they none the less of the youth because he felt that a renowned father
made all the harder work needful in the son.

But all day long, and for various other days, the dark little smithy was alight again, and
merrily the clink of anvil rang. Little by little new plans were forming. A new strip of rings
had to be let into that mail, for Ulf had grown larger. He had grown in other ways as well,
and could see far into the needs for the future. So to his arms he had added a spearhead with
a point like a needle. And now he took from an almost forgotten hiding-place a toy of his younger
days.

You would hardly know the use at first glance. Just two jawbones of some large animal, white
and polished. But look closer at them. The outer side of the curve has been filed flat. There
are holes drilled in the bone through which are rove leather strips. If with those strips the
bones were laced to the bottom of your shoes, now--

"Skates!" you cry; and skates they were. Not keen enough perhaps to give a good honest stroke,
yet speedy enough when used rightly in "roller-skate" fashion, and just as easy to get a fall
with as any other kind. Ulf's nose tingled as he looked at them. It seemed to remember at least
one bump.

Then Ulf fell to hammering again at his bits of steel, and presently those flat surfaces of
bone were shod with something harder, with keen cutting edges of corners that would never slip,
no matter how glassy the ice beneath.

Jarl Sigurd laughed when he heard of it and said that Ulf was still quite a boy. Edith was
amazed, although that winter she took much pleasure in a pair of skates which were wondrous
keen. But that was still in the future; meanwhile, Ulf said nothing, only smiled, and when
he next sailed away he took his new toys with him.

   *   *   *   *   *

Far up in the Arctic Circle, where the nights are six months long, day was fairly begun. That
means, it had progressed till five or six weeks of our days might have been carved out of it,
and the sun stood quite high above the horizon. It was so warm that the ice had begun to melt,
and one great floe of it, ever so many miles wide, broke off from the rest and began to drift
slowly southward. What made it break off was this:--here and there in the smooth plain great
icebergs were frozen, huge mountains of ice, every one of them. The wind was blowing south,
and each berg stood there like a great white sail. Underneath there was a current flowing southward;
and every berg was many times larger under water than it was above, as you can see for yourself
by dropping a piece of ice into a waterpail and measuring the difference. So the river of water
flowing through the Arctic Ocean was pushing, pushing, and the wind above was pushing, pushing,
until at last there came a thunderous crack, and the whole concern began drifting, drifting
down to the warmer seas.

But where did the bergs come from? That, too, is very curious. Among the mountains in the far
north, just as in Switzerland, there are great rivers of ice, called glaciers. They look like
rivers frozen clear to the bottom, and the weight of the ice is forever pressing it downward
toward the sea, sliding, squeezing, crushing itself into strange forms, and moving a few inches
or a few feet or yards per year. Very slow progress, you will say. But then, it is enough.
By and by a great mass of it will be shoved so far into the sea that it will break off, a whole
mountain of it, and go wallowing away with perhaps twenty cart-loads of sand and gravel and
great stones scooped up from the bottom into its crevices, or frozen fast to the ice. By-and-by
that berg will drift down as far as Newfoundland, where it will meet the warm water of the
Gulf Stream as it hurries northward. The ice will melt, the sand and stones will go silting
downward, and by just so much the bottom of the ocean will be a little nearer to the surface.
Already there are great banks of such deposits, many miles across, where a ship can anchor,
although out of sight of land; and they are great places to go fishing on. More codfish and
halibut are caught in such places than anywhere else.

Meanwhile the floe was drifting,--the one we started to write about. Right in the heart of
it there was a round hole in the ice. A fat brown seal had made it when the ice was not so
thick; and he kept it open, so that when the whole ocean was frozen he still could have a place
to breathe through. There were other places now, but still he liked to come back home to this
one. The snow had blown into the hole and formed a hard crust across it, which kept the colder
air out; and after our seal had tired of fishing and felt air-thirsty, he would swim quickly
to the place and blow warm breaths against the crust till a little airhole was melted right
through it, which was quite enough for him. Just now the seal was not at home.

Close to the snow-buried hole lay a great yellowish-white heap, too yellow to be ice, too white
to be noticed as different from any other hummock of ice. For hours it had crouched there utterly
motionless, save now and then the silent quiver of a small ear hidden in the fur. All day it
would stay if need be, patient as death and as sure--the great white polar bear, with claws
like hooks of iron, and looked at with respect by Northmen, who gave scant respect to anything
else on earth.

And good was their reason, for, as they knew, "He has eleven men's wit and twelve men's strength,"
and of all foes to meet, none was so terrible, none so full of craft. Men tell of two hunters
who saw one by a pool and stole up behind a rock. When they peered over there was no bear there,
nothing but a brown leaf drifting across the pool. Then, as they looked, the leaf disappeared
behind the bank, and without a sound the head of that bear slipped out of the water right there,
and rose inch by inch to get a good look at the watchers. Then back it slipped again, down,
down, till only the tip of the nose was left, and once more there was nothing to be seen but
what seemed a brown leaf drifting across the water.

Well the great beast on the floe knew what was to be found in good time beneath that snow crust,
and his long-haired paws had made no sound when he first had crept like a shadow to the spot.
Now at last the time had come. The first faint tinkle of water lapping in the hole had caught
his watchful ear. Yet still he waited; waited while the breathing grew plainer as the snow
grew thin; raised himself ever so slowly and rustleless, and until the first little whiff of
steam burst through; then--then--down on each side plunged the resistless sets of curved daggers!
down between plunged the wolf-trap mouth, and with an ease that would make one forget how heavy
a seal is, this one was flirted out of his hole and sent rolling yards away, only to be pounced
on a second later, with an exultant roar that echoed from berg to berg until a great fragment
split off from one and crashed into splinters at its base. Then the echoes were fine indeed
as they rumbled along the glittering plain.

The bear enjoyed his dinner. He had waited long for it and so perhaps deserved it. But it was
not wise of him to pay it quite such close attention, and for the moment fail to keep ears
or eyes alert to other things. Even as it was, however, a sound caught his attention--an odd,
hissing, whistling noise,--and he raised his long, snaky neck and head, now dyed a brilliant
red, and dripping frightfully. Yes, he was not mistaken. Something was coming, and he stirred
uneasily. Not that he was afraid,--of what living creature in those days was a Rider of the
Berg ever afraid?--but he might have to fight for his dinner. Perhaps he remembered meeting
such a creature once before and the fight that came of it. It was a good dinner that followed,
but it was many days before certain wounds of his own had healed; at all events, it was well
to be ready.

On came the figure as swiftly as a bird, glittering in the light like an icicle. The bear began
half not to like it, and expressed his displeasure at such uncanny work by uttering a curse
deep in his shaggy throat, a curse that came snarling through ivory fangs already tinged with
red; but never a second paused that flying form. Long leads of ice around were glassy, and
down the nearest lane among the rougher patches, hist!--swist! flashed the darting feet. And
as the skater passed in full flight, followed by the ever-turning, wrathful, watchful, shaggy
head, up went the short sea-bow, backed with whalebone. Tsang! and swift as light an arrow,
drawn to the head, had crossed the space and buried its length nearly to the feather in the
mass of yellow hair.

Like an uncoiled spring round snapped the roaring head, and bit savagely at the spot where
the arrow had already bitten deeper, and then with wonderful speed the furious beast stretched
himself in keen pursuit. If that smooth road should come to an end!--but the skater had vanished
behind a berg. Hist!--swist! Here he comes again, from round the other side, and down another
lane. Another arrow glances in the sun, and again for a second a stinging wound receives a
needless bite. Time lost! and time, O Bear, is of value, did you but know it. Twice already
has that fierce sting bitten deeply into your joints, and both hind feet move now strangely
slow, feet which used to carry you swiftly as any deer. Beware the third!

Silently came again the mail-clad skater--voiceless, save for the whistling of his flight,--and
undaunted still the enraged monster rushed to meet him, only to meet, baffled, yet another
shaft in the tenderest spot in his shoulder, that gave to the severed sinew and let him drop
on it so heavily that it completed the mischief done. And now for the first time in his life
the polar bear felt fear. His keen wit told him that in such war he was mastered. He ceased
to rush madly onward. He settled slowly on his torn haunches, and swayed this way and that
on his one sound foreleg, till that too gave way and he sank in a shapeless heap.

Back came Ulf, swirling, wildly exultant, casting away bow and quiver. A slash of his knife
freed his feet, and with a bound he sprang on the rough ice, axe in belt, spear in hand, on
his feet small irons that would keep them from slipping. In a dozen strides he was ready for
the thrust and made it. Then Ulf's brave heart stood still for one dread throb. Like the ward
of a boxer up came the great white forearm, and the spear only glanced along the hair. Like
the stroke of a serpent the long neck shot upward, the furious jaws crunched into the shaft,
and with a sharp side-shake, snap! snap! in three pieces flew the splintered wood. Now for
the throat!

It was all so awfully sudden! No time to think, to plan, to evade! Just time to snatch from
belt his keen little axe, to fling out the weaponless left hand and catch with it from below
that murderous lower jaw, then, with all his own wildcat quickness and last ounce of strength,
to strike!

It was a wonderful blow, men said afterward--so fairly in line between the eyes that no scale
could detect a waver, yet far enough back to go crashing down helve-deep through the brain
till it touched somewhere the spinal cord, the one great nerve of life that carries the brain's
messages to the limbs, and without which they are dead. And Ulf, still staring into the glowing
coals that gleamed in the eyesockets of his enemy, felt, rather than saw, the light flicker
out like candles as the red-stained head dropped to his blow with a sinking of the whole frame
about which there could be no mistake. Axe fell with head, and the handle clattered on the ice.

Yes, it was a wonderful blow; and when Ulf looked at the black, hurrying knot of his slowfooted
men and down at the result, and knew in his soul what other results would follow, the blood
came surging back from his heart in a mighty tide of joy. Now he was a man! Now he was a Northman
of the Northmen! Now he would have a name of his own! And over the wild waste of ice rang out
the war-cry of the Northman, of the Viking, the one who made and unmade kings,

"AOI!"

SPARK VIII.

HOW THE IRON STAR VISITED A GREAT KING.

So Ulf came home again to his reward with more renown than often falls to a young man; and
when Jarl Sigurd grew too old to care to govern longer, the command slid over to the sturdy
young shoulders so well fitted to receive it. And long before this Ulf had married Edith Fairhair,
greatly to the regret of all the other young men along the coast.

But of all his treasures won in war or trading, nothing gave him greater honour than his white
bearskin; for the fame of his winning travelled far, and was sung in winter nights by harpers
round the roaring fire which peopled the far corners with ghosts and leaping shadows, which
might well be the wraiths of bears and wolves still haunting the land where once they lived,
and roared, and howled,--or so thought the younger people. If the truth be told, so thought
not a few of the older ones too, for those were days when men believed in magic, and in the
power of dwarfs, elves and gnomes who were supposed to work in caves deep in the mountain sides,
making magic arms, and other witchcraft things.

About this time, the great outside world began to move on a little faster. More was happening,
day by day, worth remembering, and thus called History. Wars were afoot in half a dozen countries,
and at last like a light flame war came flickering around the fjords, touching now here, now
there. Even Sigurd's distant vik was beset, and Thorold the Strong, now as mighty a man as
Thorolf his father, struck such strokes among the invaders that many supposed he was the leader,
and told tales of the giant that made the pirates rather shy of coming back again.

Yet always in each tale, there was some word of another leader, and always word of a lost ship,
sometimes of more than one; so when they talked it over it began to dawn on many that the stories
told so fully were told by men who escaped from Thorold; but the tale was so scanty about the
slighter leader in the glittering mail because men whom he met never came back to boast of
it. When once he shot over the side of a long-ship at the head of his men, that was ever but
the beginning of the end. Not many minutes later, war would cease on that particular craft,
no one being left to defend it. This did not make the wise- heads anxious to try it for themselves.
But for a while, hot-headed young men who wanted to win great fame in a voyage, without waiting
for it to come in many voyages, as most must do, thought that a viking trip to Sigurd's Vik
was the speediest way of getting it.

Now and then some young madcap would do more than think about it, and with cheers would sail
away for Sigurd's Vik; but it is not recorded that many men thus won the fame they went for.
So at last every one very sensibly decided that the Vik was an excellent place for fighting,
but a still better place to leave alone, and then war died out, and slowly trade began again.

