Nancy had a new yellow organdy made "almost to touch," and a twist of yellow ribbon in her
hair. Kathleen and Julia were in the white dresses brought them by Cousin Ann, and Mrs. Carey
wore her new black silk, made with a sweeping little train. Her wedding necklace of seed pearls
was around her neck, and a tall comb of tortoise shell and pearls rose from the low-coiled
knot of her shining hair.

The family "received" in the old carriage house, and when everybody had assembled, to the number
of seventy-five or eighty, the door into the barn was thrown open majestically by Gilbert,
in his character as head of the house of Carey. Words fail to describe the impression made
by the barn as it was introduced to the company, Nancy's debut sinking into positive insignificance
beside it.

Dozens of brown japanned candle-lanterns hung from the beamed ceiling, dispensing little twinkles
of light here and there, while larger ones swung from harness pegs driven into the sides of
the walls. The soft gray-brown of the old weathered lumber everywhere, made a lovely background
for the birch-bark brackets, and the white birch-bark vases that were filled with early golden-rod,
mixed with tall Queen Anne's lace and golden glow. The quaint settles surrounding the sides
of the room were speedily filled by the admiring guests. Colonel Wheeler's tiny upright piano
graced the platform in the "tie up." Miss Susie Bennett, the church organist, was to play it,
aided now and then by Mrs. Carey or Julia. Osh Popham was to take turns on the violin with
a cousin from Warren's Mills, who was reported to be the master fiddler of the county.

When all was ready Mrs. Carey stood between the master fiddler and Susie Bennett, and there
was a sudden hush in the room. "Friends and neighbors," she said, "we now declare the Hall
of Happy Hours open for the general good of the village. If it had not been for the generosity
of our landlord, Mr. Lemuel Hamilton, we could never have given you this pleasure, and had
not our helpers been so many, we could never have made the place so beautiful. Before the general
dancing begins there will be a double quadrille of honor, in which all those will take part
who have driven a nail, papered or painted a wall, dug a spadeful of earth, or done any work
in or about the Yellow House."

"Three cheers for Mrs. Carey!" called Bill Harmon, and everybody complied lustily.

"Three cheers for Lemuel Hamilton!" and the rafters of the barn rang with the response.

Just then the Admiral changed his position to conceal the moisture that was beginning to gather
in his eyes; and the sight of a personage so unspeakably magnificent in a naval uniform induced
Osh Popham to cry spontaneously: "Three cheers for the Admiral! 

Fr Gil received from his bank and take a look as smooth as the camera roams. He seemed to awake
from a dream. It took some time to talk. Silence reigned in the deep and eager audience. Despite the
unfavorable atmosphere formed around the figure's delicate, poetic, shining humility, could
not impress favorably. - I am innocent of the crime that I committed.

In the hands of God, the more I stopped all my thoughts and attention, now let my words. Their bidding.
Those simple words spoken slowly, causing an electric shock competition.

For a moment he glimpsed the truth and the light flash.
 The other couples were
Mrs. Popham and Gilbert, Lallie Joy and Cyril Lord, Olive and Nat Harmon, while Mrs. Bill led
out a very shy and uncomfortable gentleman who had dug the ditches for Cousin Ann's expensive
pipes.

Then the fun and the frolic began in earnest. The girls had been practising the old-fashioned
contra dances all summer, and training the younger generation in them at the Vacation School.
The old folks needed no rehearsal! If you had waked any of them in the night suddenly they
could have called the changes for Speed the Plough, The Soldier's Joy, The Maid in the Pump
Room, or Hull's Victory.

Money Musk brought Nancy and Mr. Henry Lord on to the floor as head couple; a result attained
by that young lady by every means, fair or foul, known to woman; at least a rudimentary, budding
woman of seventeen summers! His coming to the party at all was regarded by Mother Carey, who
had spent the whole force of her being in managing it, as nothing short of a miracle. He had
accepted partly from secret admiration of his handsome neighbor, partly to show the village
that he did not choose always to be a hermit crab, partly out of curiosity to see the unusual
gathering. Having crawled out of his selfish shell far enough to grace the occasion, he took
another step when Nancy asked him to dance. It was pretty to see her curtsey when she put the
question, pretty to see the air of triumph with which she led him to the head of the line,
and positively delightful to the onlookers to see Hen Lord doing right and left, ladies' chain,
balance to opposite and cast off, at a girl's beck and call. He was not a bad dancer, when
his sluggish blood once got into circulation; and he was considerably more limber at the end
of Money Musk, considerably less like a wooden image, than at the beginning of it.

In the interval between this astounding exhibition and the Rochester Schottisch which followed
it, Henry Lord went up to Mrs. Carey, who was sitting in a corner a little apart from her guests
for the moment.

"Shall I go to South America, or shall I not?" he asked her in an undertone. "Olive seems pleasantly
settled, and Cyril tells me you will consent to take him into your family for six months; still,
I would like a woman's advice."

Mother Carey neither responded, "I should prefer not to take the responsibility of advising
you," nor "Pray do as you think best"; she simply said, in a tone she might have used to a
fractious boy:

"I wouldn't go, Mr. Lord! Wait till Olive and Cyril are a little older. Cyril will grow into
my family instead of into his own; Olive will learn to do without you; worse yet, you will
learn to do without your children. Stay at home and have Olive come back to you and her brother
every week end. South America is a long distance when there are only three of you!"

Prof. Lord was not satisfied with Mrs. Carey's tone. It was so maternal that he expected at
any moment she might brush his hair, straighten his necktie, and beg him not to sit up too
late, but his instinct told him it was the only tone he was ever likely to hear from her, and
so he said reluctantly, "Very well; I confess that I really rely on your judgment, and I will
decline the invitation."

"I think you are right," Mrs. Carey answered, wondering if the man would ever see his duty
with his own eyes, or whether he had deliberately blinded himself for life.

XXXV

THE CRIMSON RAMBLER

While Mrs. Carey was talking with Mr. Lord, Nancy skimmed across the barn floor intent on some
suddenly remembered duty, went out into the garden, and met face to face a strange young man
standing by the rose trellis and looking in at the dance through the open door. 

Then I hugged her and moved towards the exit in the laundry room,
she spoke: - Look man; God's wrath has calmed: the rain has lessened
and the thunder no longer shakes the wind as before.

 He did not wait for her to speak, but taking off his cap, put out his hand and
said: "By your resemblance to a photograph in my possession I think you are the girl who planted
the crimson rambler."

"Are you 'my son Tom'?" asked Nancy, open astonishment in her tone. "I mean my Mr. Hamilton's
son Tom?"

"I am my Mr. Hamilton's son Tom; or shall we say our Mr. Hamilton's? Do two 'mys' make one 'our'?"

"Upon my word, wonders will never cease!" exclaimed Nancy. "The Admiral said you were in Boston,
but he never told us you would visit Beulah so soon!"

"No, I wanted it to be a secret. I wanted to appear when the ball was at its height; the ghost
of the old regime confronting the new, so to speak."

"Beulah will soon be a summer resort; everybody seems to be coming here."

"It's partly your fault, isn't it?"

"Why, pray?"

"Are you a good bird?" asked Nancy saucily.

"I'm home, at all events!" said Tom with an emphasis that made Nancy shiver lest the young
man had come to Beulah with a view of taking up his residence in the paternal mansion.

The two young people sat down on the piazza steps while the music of The Sultan's Polka floated
out of the barn door. Old Mrs. Jenks was dancing with Peter, her eighty-year-old steps as fleet
as his, her white side-curls bobbing to the tune. Her withered hands clasped his dimpled ones
and the two seemed to be of the same age, for in the atmosphere of laughter and goodwill there
would have been no place for the old in heart, and certainly Mrs. Jenks was as young as any
one at the party.

"I can't help dreading you, nice and amiable as you look," said Nancy candidly to Tom Hamilton;
"I am so afraid you'll fall in love with the Yellow House and want it back again. Are you engaged
to be married to a little-footed China doll, or anything like that?" she asked with a teasing,
upward look and a disarming smile that robbed the question of any rudeness.

"No, not engaged to anything or anybody, but I've a notion I shall be, soon, if all goes well! Well to be many and large these wonders you saw may be even more
and bigger. Good chance you have it now, because the observatory is less far away than Tablanca,
and I gladly offered me to serve you guide.

I appreciated the invitation to the soul, but I excused myself to accept, based on the promise
made my uncle back home the next day, and in the professional duties of my companion, which obliged
him not to depart for a long time his party.l duties of my companion, which obliged
him not to depart for a long time his party.

Nancy laughed at his nonsense; she could not help it.

"Will you promise to get over your foolish and wicked prejudices if I on my part promise never
to take the Yellow House away from you unless you wish?" continued Tom.

"Willingly," exclaimed Nancy joyously. "That's the safest promise I could make, for I would
never give up living in it unless I had to. First it was father's choice, then it was mother's,
now all of us seem to have built ourselves into it, as it were. I am almost afraid to care
so much about anything, and I shall be so relieved if you do not turn out to be really a Yellow
Peril after all!"

"You are much more of a Yellow Peril yourself!" said Tom, "with that dress and that ribbon
in your hair! Will you dance the next dance with me, please?"

"It's The Tempest; do you know it?"

"No, but I'm not so old but I may learn. I'll form myself on that wonderful person who makes
jokes about the Admiral and plays the fiddle."

"That's Ossian Popham, principal prop of the House of Carey!"

"Lucky dog! Have you got all the props you need?"

Nancy's hand was not old or strong or experienced enough to keep this strange young man in
order, and just as she was meditating some blighting retort he went on:--

"Who is that altogether adorable, that unspeakably beautiful lady in black?--the one with the
pearl comb that looks like a crown?"

"That's mother," said Nancy, glowing.

"I thought so. At least I didn't know any other way to account for her."

"Why does she have to be accounted for?" asked Nancy, a little bewildered.

