JAMES CUTBUSH

JAMES CUTBUSH

AN AMERICAN CHEMIST

1788-1823

BY EDGAR F. SMITH PROVOST OF THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA

Let us preserve the memory of the deserving; perhaps it may prompt others likewise to deserve--

PHILADELPHIA, PA. 1919

PRINTED BY J. B. LIPPINCOTT COMPANY

TO MY FELLOW-CHEMISTS

PREFACE

There is nothing thrilling in the following pages. They contain the story of the life-work
of a very modest man deeply interested in and enamoured with the science of chemistry, who
sought also to inspire others and to familiarize the general public of his time with the intimate
connection of chemistry with manufactures and things which enter so largely into every-day
occupations. He was an active member of a small group of chemists who, in the early years of
eighteen hundred, caused thousands of the laity to give thought to the possibilities of Chemistry,
and in addition was a pioneer in pyrotechnics, on which account he is deservedly entitled to
every recognition. More than a century has passed since his most serious efforts were put forth.
However, it will not be long until that early galaxy of chemical enthusiasts of which he was
a member will be accorded a high place in the history of the development of the science in America.

JAMES CUTBUSH

AN AMERICAN CHEMIST

1788-1823

It is scarcely conceivable that anything pertaining to the development of chemical science
in America would fail to interest its chemists. The response to the needs of the Nation in
the last few years has shown how marvelously they wrought and the wonderful things which they
brought to light. Yet in the long ago--in the days of which we only know by hearsay, and through
desultory reading, there lived chemists with enthusiasm, knowledge and initiative, whose aim
it was to have their chosen science contribute to the welfare of humanity. In the labors of
such men as James Woodhouse, Robert Hare, Adam Seybert, Henry Seybert, John Redman Coxe, Joseph
Cloud, Gerard Troost, and many others, the scientific spirit predominated, although with it
went the purpose, more or less sharply defined, of making their acquirements useful. Particularly
noticeable was this in the instance of Woodhouse.

The general consensus of opinion among present-day chemists is that chemistry should be helpful
to all. It may and should be scientific, but its principles ought to be scientifically applied
in every useful manner.

The reader, desirous of learning the aims and ambitions of the fathers of the science in our
country, will profit by turning to the files of the Aurora, an old daily paper of Philadelphia,
for the year 1808, and beginning about the middle of July will there encounter a most interesting
series of articles on the applications of chemistry under the general heading

    APPLICATION OF CHEMISTRY TO ARTS AND MANUFACTURES

There are fifteen separate papers. In considering the period--1808,--the age of the young Republic,
and that the times were far from quiet; that unrest and uncertainty prevailed as to the fate
of the Republic, it does not surprise that thought should have been given to means of protection;
hence gunpowder was the very first product to engage the author of the series of articles.
The proving and analysis of the powder are discussed at length. The methods appear very primitive
in the light of present-day knowledge, but one must not forget the period. One hundred years
hence the masterpieces of present-day chemists will perhaps provoke smiles upon the countenances
of those who perchance read them. In this pioneer contribution on gunpowder analysis the charcoal
of the powder is often called "oxid of carbon." In referring to the separation of potassium
and sodium it is recommended to precipitate out the first in the form of tartrate. Naturally,
nitre itself comes in for serious thought and the explosibility of the mixture of charcoal,
nitre and sulphur arrests the author's attention, for he emphasizes the fact--

    "that, independent of the formation of gases or airs, the
    agency of caloric, or matter of heat, generated in the
    process of combustion, considerably facilitates the strength
    of the powder, in consequence of producing the expansion of
    these airs."

Recently, under the pressure of a national necessity, which will not soon be forgotten, the
problem of getting nitre--nitrates and kindred bodies--had the earnest attention of chemists.
So, in the period before and after 1808, methods of forming nitre had grave consideration.
For instance, this question, now amusing, was propounded--

    "How much nitre could be manufactured from the refuse animal
    and vegetable matter of the City of Philadelphia in case of
    emergency? What quantity could be prepared by elixating or
    washing the rubbish of old buildings, the earth of stables,
    cellars, etc., and the soil of certain tracts of the United
    States?"

It is quite proper that mention should have also been made of the natural nitre beds, as well
as of the artificial beds built up from slow experience. Reference is made that in France nitre
was won from the lime and rubbish of old, ruinous buildings, and from the floors of stables
and pigeon houses, while it is also recorded that during the American Revolution, the

    "same means, by the hand of economy and industry, afforded
    quantities of this article in certain of the then Colonies,
    and"

that in the Southern portions it was obtained from the earthen floors of tobacco houses.

The presentation of the earliest methods of getting nitre is extremely interesting, extended
and elaborate, giving the reader a full view of pioneer conditions and endeavor. The scheme
of purification of nitre for gunpowder use is illuminating and attractive. Attention is directed
to the saltpetre rock and caves of the western portion of our country.

The preparation of charcoal is discussed. The adaptability of charcoal from various sources
receives careful thought in connection with its use in gunpowder; so, too, the sulphur used
for this particular purpose, and there is recommended as a source of this ingredient, the common
pyrites so abundant throughout the States. Among other topics, of vital interest in these days,
discussed in the continuing articles, is the manufacture of spirit from potatoes. The method
employed in Germany is presented in detail after which it is said--

    "Potato spirit of excellent quality has been made in this
    city (Philadelphia). It is found, not only to be much cheaper
    than grain used entirely, but to afford better flavoured
    liquor and other qualities which give it a decided
    preference."

Fermentation, yeast and baking receive mention. Brewing and the different kinds of beer are
fully examined. In those days adulteration was practiced, for wormwood and quassia were found
as substitutes. The preparation of beer and ale for home consumption would very likely find
little favor in the "dry-bone" spirit of the present, much less would the refining of wines
and other spirituous liquors of high alcohol content meet with approbation. However, such prohibitory
questions as are now discussed did not vitally concern our forefathers, so that it was most
proper and praiseworthy to advise the public how, through the instrumentality of chemistry,
many of the needed articles of life might be made in the highest degree of purity. In many
homes there existed miniature brewing plants.

At the other extreme, among useful commodities, were the manufacture of fish glue, common glue,
gelatine, albumen, magnesia alba, etc.

The several articles thus published in one of the most respected and influential papers of
that early day--1808--had for their purpose the education of the general public in the application
of a science to their use, but there was also a desire to arouse a deep and steady interest
in science in general, which seems quite plain from a quotation from that remarkable address
of Dr. John Morgan--at one time Physician-in-Chief of the American Army. The passage was--

    "Oh! let it never be said in this City or in this Province,
    so happy in its climate and in its soil, where Commerce has
    long flourished and plenty smiled, that science, the amiable
    daughter of liberty and sister of opulence, droops her
    languid head, or follows behind with a slow, unequal pace."

Doubtless deeply moved himself by this impassioned appeal, the author of the Aurora papers
exclaimed--

    "I pronounce with confidence this shall never be the case.
    Every useful kind of learning shall here fix a favorite seat
    and shine forth in meredian splendour, to accomplish which
    may every heart and every hand be united."

And then, probably overpowered by an inner, compelling force and conscious of the possibilities
of his science in the cause of man and the undeveloped resources of our country, quietly awaiting
the oncoming alterations to be performed by applying chemistry, he continues with like spirit--

    "If ever there was a time to bring the Arts and Manufactures
    to perfection in this Country, it is the present; for the
    season is approaching, when, of necessity, which is the
    mother of invention, our internal resources, and the
    application of them to our wants, will advance a brilliant
    and glorious epoch in the annals of our Country--second to
    none but the declaration of independence. Who is to establish
    the chain of manufactures--to convert the crude productions
    of Nature into useful articles; but you enlightened citizens,
    men of science and improvement, artists and
    manufacturers. The laboratory of Nature will be thrown open
    to you, and to use the scriptural phrase, 'Ye shall know
    even as ye are known.'"

Throughout the whole series of these papers there is manifest that noble patriotic spirit which
shows itself in the last paragraph. There exists also an intelligent and unselfish spirit,
so that as one finishes his reading there comes to mind a query as to the author who wrote
thus in 1808--who was this early advocate of applied chemistry--this enthusiast in chemistry?
Each article bears at its conclusion the initials J.C., which in several of the earlier articles
are erroneously given as I.C. They throw no light on our curiosity and probably no one would
ever have known whom J.C. represented had not the man himself in later life confessed that
as a lad of twenty years he penned these papers. They are exceedingly well composed. They show
a wide, general knowledge and also great familiarity with the science of chemistry. Their young
author was James Cutbush.

When Robert Hare was twenty years of age he gave to the world one of the finest discoveries
made by a chemist. Cutbush presented known chemical facts for the use and improvement of natural
conditions. Might not the young men of these days, surrounded by every sort of help, make similar
earnest and worthwhile contributions? They surely can do this if they are imbued with the spirit
of the forefathers--the American spirit in chemistry.

