"Because he makes her believe in him and the country where he is taking her, and that's all
a woman asks."

X

WHAT HAPPENED AFTERWARD

Everybody woke with a start on the morning following the 30th of April; things began to happen
even before the postman had made his first rounds.  The operators at the telephone switchboards
were rushed at an unconscionably early hour, considering that their station compassed the Avenue.
The President was trying to get the trustees, Saint Margaret's, and the Senior Surgeon; the
trustees were trying to get one another; while the Senior Surgeon was rapidly covering the
distance between his home and the hospital--his mind busy with a multitude of things, none
of which he had ever written with capitals.

Saint Margaret's was astir before its usual hour; there was a tang of joyousness in the air,
and everybody's heart and mind, strangely enough, seemed to be in festal attire, although nobody
was outwardly conscious of it.  It was all the more inexplicable because Saint Margaret's had
gone to bed miserable, and events naturally pointed toward depression: Margaret MacLean's coming
departure, the abandoning of Ward C, the House Surgeon's resignation, and Michael's empty crib.

Ward C had wakened with a laugh.  Margaret MacLean, who had been moving noiselessly about the
room for some time, picking up the withered remains of the primrose ring, looked up with apprehension.
The tears she had shed over Michael's crib were quite dry, and she had a brave little speech
on the end of her tongue ready for the children's awakening.  Eight pairs of sleepy eyes were
rubbed open, and then unhesitatingly turned in the direction of the empty crib in the corner.

"Michael has gone away." she said, softly, steadying her voice with great care.  "He has gone
where he will be well--and his heart sound and strong."

She was wholly unprepared for the children's response.  It was so unexpected, in fact, that
for the moment she tottered perilously near the verge of hysterics.  The children actually
grinned; while Bridget remarked, with a chuckle:

"Ye are afther meanin' that he didn't come back--that's what!"  And then she added, as an afterthought,
"He said to tell ye 'God bless ye,' Miss Peggie."

Margaret MacLean did not know whether to be shocked or glad that the passing of a comrade had
brought no sign of grief.  Instead of being either, she went on picking up the primroses and
wondering.  As for the children, they lay back peacefully in their beds, their eyes laughing
riotously.  And every once in a while they would look over at one another, giving the funniest
little expressive nods, which seemed to say: "I know what you're thinking about, and you know
what I'm thinking about, so what's the need of talking.  But when is it going to happen?"

The House Surgeon brought up her mail; it was an excuse to see her again before his official
visit.  "Are the children very much broken up over it?" he asked, anxiously, outside the door.

For answer Margaret MacLean beckoned him and pointed to the eight occupied cots--unquestionably
serene and happy.

"Well, I'll be--" began the House Surgeon, retiring precipitously back to the door again; but
the nurse put a silencing finger over his lips.

"Hush, dear!  The children are probably clearer visioned than we are. I have the distinct feeling
this morning of being very blind and stupid, while they seem--oh, so wise."

The House Surgeon grunted expressively.  "Well, perhaps they won't take your going away so
dreadfully to heart--now; or theirs, for that matter."

"I hope not," and then she smiled wistfully.  "But I thought you told me last night we were
all going together?  At any rate, I am not going to tell them anything.  If it must be it must
be, and I shall slip off quietly, when the children are napping, and leave the trustees to tell."

She looked her mail over casually; there were the usual number of advertisements, a letter
from one of the nurses who had gone South, and another in an unfamiliar hand-writing.  She
tore off the corner of the last, and, running her finger down the flap, she commented:

"Looks like quality.  A letter outside the profession is a very rare thing for me."

She read the letter through without a sound, and then she read it again, the House Surgeon
watching, the old big-brother look gone for ever from his face, and in its place a worshipful
proprietorship.  The effect of the letter was undeniably Aprilish; she looked up at the House
Surgeon with the most radiant of smiles, while her eyes spilled recklessly over.

"How did you know it?  How did you know it?" she repeated.

He was trying his best to find out what it was all about when one of the nurses came hurrying
down the corridor.

"You are both wanted down in the board-room.  They have called a special meeting of the trustees
for nine o'clock; everybody's here and acting decidedly peculiar, I think.  Why, as I passed
the door I am sure I saw the President slapping the Senior Surgeon on the back.  I never heard
of anything like this happening before."

"Come," said Margaret MacLean to the House Surgeon.  "If we walk down very slowly we will have
time enough to read the letter on the way."

As the nurse had intimated, it was an altogether unprecedented meeting. Formality had been
gently tossed out of the window; after which the President sat, not behind his desk, but upon
it--an open letter in his hand.  His whole attitude suggested a wish to banish, as far as it
lay within his power, the atmosphere of the previous afternoon.

"Here is a letter to be considered first," he said, a bit gravely.  "It makes rather a good
prologue to our reconsideration of the incurable ward," and the ghost of a smile twitched at
the corners of his mouth. "This is from the widow of the Richest Trustee."  He read, slowly:

"MESDAMES AND GENTLEMEN OF THE BOARD,--I thank you for your courtesy in
asking me to fill my husband's place as one of the trustees of Saint
Margaret's.  Until this afternoon I had every intention of so doing;
but I cannot think now that my husband would wish me to continue his
support of an institution whose directors have so far forgotten the
name under which they dispense their charity as to put science and
pride first.  As for myself--I find I am strongly interested in
incurables--your incurables.
      Yours very truly"

The President laid the letter behind him on the desk, while the entire board gasped in amazement.

"Well, I'll be hanged!" muttered the Disagreeable Trustee.

"But just think of her--writing it!" burst forth the Oldest Trustee.

The Meanest Trustee barked out an exclamation, but nothing followed it; undoubtedly that was
due to the President's interrupting:

"I think if we had received this yesterday we should have been very--exceedingly--indignant;
we should have censured the writer severely.  As it is--hmm--"  The President stopped short;
it was as if his mind had refused to tabulate his feelings.

"As it is"--the Executive Trustee took up the dropped thread and went on--"we have decided
to reconsider the removal of the incurable ward without any--preaching--or priming of conscience."

"I am so glad we really had changed our minds first.  I should so hate to have that insignificant
little woman think that we were influenced by anything she might write.  Wouldn't you?"  And
the Youngest and Prettiest Trustee dimpled ravishingly at the Senior Surgeon.

"Wouldn't you two like to go into the consulting-room and talk it over? We could settle the
business in hand, this time, without your assistance, I think."  The voice of the Disagreeable
Trustee dripped sarcasm.

"I should suggest," said the President, returning to the business of the meeting, "that the
ward might be continued for the present, until we investigate the home condition of the patients
and understand perhaps a little more thoroughly just what they need, and where they can be
made most--comfortable."

"And retain Margaret MacLean in charge?"  The Meanest Trustee gave it the form of a question,
but his manner implied the statement of a disagreeable fact.

"Why not?  Is there any one more competent to take charge?"  The Executive Trustee interrogated
each individual member of the board with a quizzical eye.

"But the new surgical ward--and science?"  The Youngest and Prettiest threw it, Jason-fashion,
and waited expectantly for a clash of steel.

Instead the Senior Surgeon stepped forward, rather pink and embarrassed.  "I should like to
withdraw my request for a new surgical ward.  It can wait--for the present, at least."

And then it was that Margaret MacLean and the House Surgeon entered the board-room.

The President nodded to them pleasantly, and motioned to the chairs near him.  "We are having
what you professional people call a reaction. I hardly know what started it; but--hmmm--" 
For the second time that morning he came to a dead stop.

Everybody took great pains to avoid looking at everybody else; while each face wore a painful
expression of sham innocence.  It was as if so many naughty children had been suddenly caught
on the wrong side of the fence, the stolen fruit in their pockets.  It was gone in less time
than it takes for the telling; but it would have left the careful observer, had he been there,
with the firm conviction that, for the first time in their conservative lives, the trustees
of Saint Margaret's had come perilously near to giving themselves away.

In a twinkling the board sat at ease once more, and the President's habitual composure returned.
"Will some one motion that we adopt the two measures we have suggested?  This is not parliamentary,
but we are all in a hurry."

"I motion that we keep the incurables for the present, and that Miss MacLean be requested to
continue in charge."  There was a note of relieved repression in the voice of the Executive
Trustee as he made the motion; and he stretched his shoulders unconsciously.

"But you mustn't make any such motion."  Margaret MacLean rose, reaching forth protesting hands.
"You would spoil the very best thing that has happened for years and years.  Just wait--wait
until you have heard."

As she unfolded her letter the President's alert eye promptly compared it with the one behind
him on the desk.  "So--you have likewise heard from the widow of the Richest Trustee?"

She looked at him, puzzled.  "Oh, you know!  She has written you?"

"Not what she has written you, I judge.  One could hardly term our communication 'the best
thing that has happened in years.'"  And again a smile twitched at the corners of the President's
mouth.

"Then listen to this."  Margaret MacLean read the letter eagerly:

"DEAE MARGARET MACLEAN,--There is a home standing on a hilltop--an hour's ride from the city.
It belongs to a lonely old woman who finds that it is too large and too lonely for her to live
in, and too full of haunting memories to be left empty.  Therefore she wants to fill it with
incurable children, and she would like to begin with the discarded ward of Saint Margaret's."

"That's a miserable way to speak of a lot of children," muttered the Disagreeable Trustee;
but no one paid any attention, and Margaret MacLean went on:

"There is room now for about twenty beds; and annexes can easily be added as fast as the need
grows.  This lonely old woman would consider it a great kindness if you will take charge; she
would also like to have you persuade the House Surgeon that it is high time for him to become
Senior Surgeon, and the new home is the place for him to begin. Together we should be able
to equip it without delay; so that the children could be moved direct from Saint Margaret's.
It is the whim of this old woman to call it a 'Home for Curables'--which, of course, is only
a whim.  Will you come to see me as soon as you can and let us talk it over?"

Margaret MacLean folded the letter slowly and put it back in its envelope.  "You see," she
said, the little-girl look spreading over her face--"you see, you mustn't take us back again.
I could not possibly refuse, even if I wanted to; it is just what the children have longed
for--and wished for--and--"

"We are not going to give up the ward; she would have to start her home with other children."
The Dominant Trustee announced it flatly.

Strangely enough, the faces of his fellow-directors corroborated his assertion.  Often the
value of a collection drops so persistently in the estimate of its possessor that he begins
to contemplate exchanging it for something more up to date or interesting.  But let a rival
collector march forth with igniting enthusiasm and proclaim a desire for the scorned objects,
and that very moment does the possessor tighten his grip on them and add a decimal or two to
their value.  So was it with the trustees of Saint Margaret's.  For the first time in their
lives they desired the incurable ward and wished to retain it.

"Not only do we intend to keep the children, but there are many improvements I shall suggest
to the board when there is more time.  I should like to insist on a more careful supervision
of--curious visitors."  And the Oldest Trustee raised her lorgnette and compassed the gathering
with a look that challenged dispute.

Margaret MacLean's face became unaccountably old and tired.  The vision that had seemed so
close, so tangible, so ready to be made actual, had suddenly retreated beyond her reach, and
she was left as empty of heart and hand as she had been before.  For a moment her whole figure
seemed to crumple; and then she shook herself together into a resisting, fighting force again.

"You can't keep the children, after this.  Think, think what it means to them--a home in the
country, on a hilltop, trees and birds and flowers all about.  Many of them could wheel themselves
out of doors, and the others could have hammocks and cots under the trees.  Forget for this
once that you are trustees, and think what it means to the children."

"But can't you understand?" urged the President, "we feel a special interest in these children.
They are beginning to belong to us--as you do, yourself, for that matter."

The little-girl look came rushing into Margaret MacLean's face, flooding it with wistfulness.
"It's a little hard to believe--this belonging to anybody.  Yesterday I seemed to be the only
person who wanted me at all, and I wasn't dreadfully keen about it myself."  Then she clapped
her hands with the suddenness of an idea.  "After all, it's the children who are really most
concerned.  Why shouldn't we ask them? Of course I know it is very much out of the accustomed
order of things, but why not try it?  Couldn't we?"

Anxiously she scanned the faces about her.  There was surprise, amusement, but no dissent.
The Disagreeable Trustee smiled secretly behind his hand; it appealed to his latent sense of humor.

"It would be rather a Balaam and his ass affair, but, as Miss MacLean suggests, why not try
it?" he asked.

Margaret MacLean did not wait an instant longer.  She turned to the House Surgeon.  "Bring
Bridget down, quickly."

As he disappeared obediently through the door she faced the trustees, as she had faced them
once before, on the day previous.  "Bridget will know better than any one else what will make
the children happiest. Now wouldn't it be fun"--and she smiled adorably--"if you should all
play you were faery godparents, for once in your lifetime, and give Bridget her choice, whatever
it may be?"

