"I am not sure just what we did immediately after freedom. I don't know whether it was a year
or whether it was a year and a half. I can just go by my mother. After freedom, we came from
Auburn, Alabama to Opelika, Alabama, and she went to cooking at a hotel until she got money
enough for what she wanted to do. When she got fixed, she moved then to Columbus, Georgia.
She rented a place from Ned Burns, a policeman. When that place gave out, she went to washing
and ironing. Sterling Love rented a house from the same man. He had four children and they
were going to school and they took me too.

Schooling

"I fixed up and went to school with them. I didn't get no learning at all in slavery times.

How Freedom Came

"I don't know whether all the whites did it or not; but I know this--when they quit fighting,
I know the white children called we little children and all the grown people who worked around
the house and said, 'You all is jus' as free as we is. You ain't got no master and no mistiss,'
and I don't know what they told them at the plantation.

Occupation

"Right after the War, my mother worked--washed--for an old white man. He took an interest in
me and taught me. I did little things for him. When he died, I took up the teaching which he
had been doing.

"At first I taught in Columbus, Georgia. By and by, a white man came along looking for laborers
for this part of the country. He said money grew on bushes out here. He cleaned out the place.
All the children and all the grown folks followed him. Two of my boys came to me and told me
they were coming. We hoboed on freights and walked to Chattanooga, Tennessee. We stayed there
awhile. Then a white man came along getting laborers. I never kept the year nor nothin'. He
brought us to Lonoke County, and I got work on The Bood Bar Plantation. Squirrels, wild things,
cotton and corn, plenty of it. So you see, the man told the truth when he said money grew on
bushes.

"I taught and farmed all my life. Farming is the greatest occupation. It supports the teacher,
the preacher, the lawyer, the doctor. None of them can live without it.

"I can't do much now since that lady knocked me down with her automobile and made me a cripple.
I'd a been all right if so many of them young doctors hadn't experimented on me. Then I can't
see good out of one eye. I can't do much now. I don't know why they won't give me a pension."

Interviewer's Comment

William Dunwoody had some of his dates and occurrences mixed up as would be natural for a man
ninety-eight years old. But there was one respect in which he was sharper than anyone else
interviewed.

At the close of the first day's interview when I arose to go he said to me, "Now you got what
you want?" I told him yes and that I would be back for more the next day. Then he said, "Well,
if you got what you want, there's one thing I want you to do for me before you go."

"Certainly, Brother Dunwoody," I said, "I'll be glad to do anything you want me to do. Just
what can I do for you?"

"Well," he said, "I want you to read me what you been writin' there."

And I read it.

A little grandchild about four years old kept us company while he dictated to me. I furnished
pennies for the child's candy and a nickel for the old man's tobacco.

The old man got a kick out of the dictation. After the first day, he became very cautious.
He would say, "Now don't write this," and he wouldn't let me take it down the way he said it.
Instead, he would make a long statement and then we would work out the gist of it together.
He is not highly schooled, and he is not especially prepossessing in appearance; but he is
a long way from decrepit--mentally.

He walks with a crutch and has a defect in the sight of one eye. He has good hearing and talks
in a pleasant voice.

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Lucius Edwards Age: 72

Interviewer's Comment

I went to see Lucius Edwards, age seventy-two, twice. He has colitis. He wouldn't tell me anything.
He said he was born in Shreveport, Louisiana and his father took him away so young he knew
no mother; his aunt raised him. The first day he said he remembered all that about his parents'
owners. The next day the nurse had him cleaned up and nice meals were sent in and still he
wouldn't tell us anything. He told the nurse he had farmed and worked on the railroad all his
life. He was up but wouldn't tell us anything. He told me, "I don't think I ever voted." We
decided he might be afraid he'd twist his tales and we'd catch him some way.

Interviewer: Mary D. Hudgins Person Interviewed: John Elliott Age: 80 Home: South Border (property
of brother's estate)

As told by: John Elliott

"No, ma'am. I ain't got no folks. They've all died out. My son, he may be alive. When I last
heard from him, he was in Pine Bluff. But I wrote down lots of times and nobody can't find
him. Brother said, that was before he died, that I could stay on in the place as long as I
lived. His wife come to see me some years back and she said it was that way.

The comodity gives me milk, and a little beside. I'm expectin' to hear if I get the pension,
Tuesday. No ma'am, I ain't worked in three years. Yes, ma'am, I was a slave. I was about 8
years old when they mustered 'em out the last time.

My daddy went along to take care of his young master. He died, and my daddy brought his horse
and all his belongings home.

You see it was this way. My mother was a run-away slave. She was from, what's that big state
off there--Virginia--yes, ma'am, that's it. There was a pretty good flock of them. They came
into North Carolina--Wayne County was where John Elliott found them. They was in a pretty bad
way. They didn't have no place to go and they didn't have nothing to eat. They didn't have
nobody to own 'em. They didn't know what to do. My mother was about 13.

By some means or other they met up with a man named John Elliott. He was a teacher. He struck
a bargain with them. He pitched in and he bought 200 acres of land. He built a big house for
Miss Polly and Bunk and Margaret. Miss Polly was his sister. And he built cabins for the black
folks.

And he says 'You stay here, and you take care of Miss Polly and the children. Now mind, you
raise lots to eat. You take care of the place too. And if anybody bothers you you tell Miss
Polly.' My Uncle Mose, he was the oldest. He was a blacksmith. Jacob was the carpenter. 'Now
look here, Mose,' says Mister John, 'you raise plenty of hogs. Mind you give all the folks
plenty of meat. Then you take the rest to Miss Polly and let her lock it in the smokehouse.'
Miss Polly carried the key, but Mose was head man and had dominion over the smokehouse.

They didn't get money to any extreme. But whatever they wanted, Miss Polly would go along with
them and they would buy it. They went to Goldsboro. That was the biggest town near us. The
patrollers never bothered any of us. Once or twice they tried it. But Miss Polly wrote to Mr.
John. He'd write it all down like it ought to be. Then they didn't bother us any more.

There was no speculation wid 'em like there was with other negro people. They never had to
go to the hiring ground. Mr. John built a church for my mother and the other women who was
running mates with her. And he built a school for the children. Some other colored children
tried to come to the school too. They was welcome. But sometimes the white folks would tear
up the books of the colored children from outside that tried to come.

Our folks stayed on and on. Mr. John was off teaching school most of the time. We stayed on
and on. Pretty soon there was about 150-200, of us. Some of them was carpenters and some of
them was this and some was that. Mr. John even put in a mill. A groundhog saw mill, it was.
Some white men put it in. But it was the colored folks who run it. They all stayed right on
on the farm. There wasn't any white folks about at all, except Miss Polly and Bunk and Margaret.

No, ma'am, after the war it didn't make much difference. We all stayed on. We worked the place.
And when we got a chance, Mr. John let us hire out and keep the money. And if the folks wouldn't
pay us, Mr. John would write the Federal and the Federal would see that we got our money for
what we had worked. Mr. John was a mighty good man to us.

No ma'am. Nobody got discontented for a long time. Then some men come in and messed them up.
Told us that we could make more money other places. And it was true too--if they had let us
get the money. By that time Mr. John, had died. Bunk had died too, Miss Margaret had grown
up and married. Her husband was managing the farm. He was good, but he wasn't like Mr. John.
So lots of us moved away.

But about not making money. Take me. I raised 14-16 bales of cotton. The man who owned the
land, I worked on halvers, sold it on the Liverpool market. But he wouldn't pay me but about
1/3 of what he collected on my half. And I says to him, 'You gets full price for your half,
why can't I get full price for mine?' And he says, 'It's against the rules.' And I says, 'It
ain't fair! And he says, 'It's the rules.' So after about six years I quit farming. You can't
make no money that way. Yes--you make it, but you can't get it.

I went to town at Pine Bluff. There I got to mixing concrete. I made pretty good at it, too.
I stayed on for some years. Then I came to Hot Springs. My brother was along with me. We both
worked and after work we built a house. It took us four years. But it was a good house. It
has six rooms in it. It makes a good home. My brother had the deed. But his widow says I can
stay on. The folks what lives in the rest of the house are good to me.

When I got to Hot Springs I worked mixing concrete. There was lots of sidewalks being made
along about that time. Then I scatter dirt all around where the court house is now. Then I
worked at both of the very biggest hotels. I washed. I washed cream pitchers--the little ones
with corners that were hard to clean.

No, I ain't worked in three years. It hard to try to get along. Some states, they pays good
pensions. I can't be here long--don't look like I can be here long. Seems as if they could
take care of me for the few days I'm going to be on this earth. Seems like they could.

Interviewer: Mrs. Carol Graham Person interviewed: Millie Evans Age:

Yo' say yo' is in'rested in the lives of the slaves? Well, Miss, I is one of 'em. Was born
in 1849 but I don' know jus' when. My birthday comes in fodder pullin' time cause my ma said
she was pullin up till bout a hour 'fore I was born. Was born in North Carolina and was a young
lady at the time of surrender.

I don' 'member ol' master's name; all I 'member is that we call 'em ol' master an ol' mistress.
They had bout a hundred niggers and they was rich. Master always tended the men and mistress
tended to us.

Ev'y mornin' bout fo' 'clock ol' master would ring de bell for us to git up by an yo could
hear dat bell ringin all over de plantation. I can hear hit now. Hit would go ting-a-ling,
ting-a-ling and I can see 'em now stirrin in Carolina. I git so lonesome when I thinks bout
times we used to have. Twas better livin back yonder than now.

I stayed with my ma every night but my mistress raised me. My ma had to work hard so ev'y time
ol' mistress thought we little black chilluns was hungry 'tween meals she would call us up
to the house to eat. Sometime she would give us johnny cake an plenty of buttermilk to drink
wid it. They had a long trough fo' us dat day would keep so clean. They would fill dis trough
wid buttermilk and all us chillun would git roun' th' trough an drink wid our mouths an hol'
our johnny cake wid our han's. I can jus' see myself drinkin' now. Hit was so good. There was
so many black fo'ks to cook fuh that the cookin was done outdoors. Greens was cooked in a big
black washpot jus' like yo' boils clothes in now. An' sometime they would crumble bread in
the potlicker an give us spoons an we would stan' roun' the pot an' eat. When we et our regular
meals the table was set under a chinaberry tree wid a oil cloth table cloth on when dey called
us to th' table they would ring the bell. But we didn' eat out'n plates. We et out of gourds
an had ho'made wood spoons. An' we had plenty t'eat. Whooo-eee! Jus' plenty t'eat. Ol' master's
folks raised plenty o' meat an dey raise dey sugar, rice, peas, chickens, eggs, cows an' jus'
ev'ything good t'eat.

Ev'y ev'nin' at three 'clock ol' mistress would call all us litsy bitsy chillun in an we would
lay down on pallets an have to go to sleep. I can hear her now singin' to us piccaninnies:

  "Hush-a-bye, bye-yo'-bye, mammy's piccaninnies
   Way beneath the silver shining moon
   Hush-a-bye, bye-yo'-bye, mammy's piccaninnies
   Daddy's little Carolina coons
   Now go to sleep yo' little piccaninnies."

When I got big 'nough I nursed my mistress's baby. When de baby go to sleep in de evenin' I
woul' put hit in de cradle an' lay down by de cradle an go to sleep. I played a heap when I
was little. We played Susannah Gal, jump rope, callin' cows, runnin', jumpin', skippin', an
jus' ev'ythin' we could think of. When I got big 'nough to cook, I cooked den.

The kitchen of the big house was built way off f'om the house and we cooked on a great big
ol' fi' place. We had swing pots an would swing 'em over the fire an cook an had a big ol'
skillet wi' legs on hit. We call hit a ubben an cooked bread an cakes in it.

We had the bes' mistress an master in the worl' and they was Christian fo'ks an they taught
us to be Christianlike too. Ev'y Sunday mornin' ol' master would have all us niggers to the
house while he would sing an pray an read de Bible to us all. Ol' master taught us not to be
bad; he taught us to be good; he tol' us to never steal nor to tell false tales an not to do
anythin' that was bad. He said: Yo' will reap what yo' sow, that you sow it single an' reap
double. I learnt that when I was a little chile an I ain't fo'got it yet. When I got grown
I went de Baptist way. God called my pa to preach an ol' master let him preach in de kitchen
an in the back yard under th' trees. On preachin' day ol' master took his whole family an all
th' slaves to church wid him.

We had log school houses in them days an fo'ks learnt more than they does in the bricks t'day.

Down in the quarters ev'y black family had a one or two room log cabin. We didn' have no floors
in them cabins. Nice dirt floors was de style then an we used sage brooms. Took a string an
tied the sage together an had a nice broom out'n that. We would gather broom sage fo' our winter
brooms jus' like we gathered our other winter stuff. We kep' our dirt floors swep' as clean
an' white. An our bed was big an tall an had little beds to push under there. They was all
little er nough to go under de other an in th' daytime we would push 'em all under the big
one an make heaps of room. Our beds was stuffed wid hay an straw an shucks an b'lieve me chile
they sho' slep' good.

When the boys would start to the quarters from th' fiel' they would get a turn of lider knots.
I specks yo' knows 'em as pine knots. That was what we use' fo' light. When our fire went out
we had no fire. Didn' know nothin' bout no matches. To start a fire we would take a skillet
lid an a piece of cotton an a flint rock. Lay de cotton on th' skillet lid an' take a piece
of iron an beat the flint rock till the fire would come. Sometime we would beat fo' thirty
minutes before the fire would come an start the cotton then we woul' light our pine.

Up at th' big house we didn' use lider knots but used tallow candles for lights. We made the
candles f'om tallow that we took f'om cows. We had moulds and would put string in there an
leave the en' stickin' out to light an melt the tallow an pour it down aroun' th' string in
the mould.

We use to play at night by moonlight and I can recollec' singin wid the fiddle. Oh, Lord, dat
fiddle could almos' talk an I can hear it ringin now. Sometime we would dance in the moonlight too.

Ol' master raised lots of cotton and the women fo'ks carded an spun an wove cloth, then they
dyed hit an made clothes. An we knit all the stockin's we wo'. They made their dye too, f'om
diffe'nt kin's of bark an leaves an things. Dey would take the bark an boil it an strain it
up an let it stan' a day then wet the 'terial in col' water an shake hit out an drop in the
boilin' dye an let it set bout twenty minutes then take it out an hang it up an let it dry
right out of that dye. Then rinse it in col' water an let it dry then it woul' be ready to make.

I'll tell yo' how to dye. A little beech bark dyes slate color set with copperas. Pine straw
dyes purple, set color with chamber lye. To dye cloth brown we would take de cloth an put it
in the water where leather had been tanned an let it soak then set the color with apple vinegar.
An we dyed blue wid indigo an set the color wid alum.

We wo' draws made out of termestic that come down longer than our dresses an we wo' seven petticoats
in the winter wid sleeves in dem petticoats in the winter an the boys wo' big ol' long shirts.
They didn' know nothin bout no britches till they was great big, jus' wen' roun' in dey shirttails.
An we all wo' shoes cause my pa made shoes.

Master taught pa to make shoes an the way he done, they killed a cow an took the hide an tanned
it. The way they tanned it was to take red oak bark and put in vats made somethin' like troughs
that held water. Firs' he would put in a layer of leather an a layer of oak ashes an a layer
of leather an a layer of oak ashes till he got it all in an cover with water. After that he
let it soak till the hair come off the hide. Then he would take the hide out an it was ready
for tannin'. Then the hide was put to soak in with the red oak bark. It stayed in the water
till the hide turned tan then pa took the hide out of the red oak dye an it was a purty tan.
It didn' have to soak long. Then he would get his pattern an cut an make tan shoes out'n the
tanned hides. We called 'em brogans.

They planted indigo an it growed jus' like wheat. When it got ripe they gathered it an we would
put it in a barrel an let it soak bout a week then we woul' take the indigo stems out an squeeze
all the juice out of 'em an put the juice back in the barrel an let it stan' bout nother week,
then we jus' stirred an stirred one whole day. We let it set three or four days then drained
the water off an left the settlings and the settlings was blueing jus' like we have these days.
We cut ours in little blocks an we dyed clothes wid it too.

We made vinegar out of apples. Took over ripe apples an ground 'em up an put 'em in a sack
an let drip. Didn' add no water an when it got through drippin we let it sour an strained an
let it stan for six months an had some of the bes vinegar ever made.

We had homemade tubs and didn' have no wash boa'ds. We had a block an battlin' stick. We put
our clo'es in soak then took 'em out of soak an lay them on the block an take the battling
stick an battle the dirt out of 'em. We mos'ly used rattan vines for clotheslines an they made
the bes clo'es lines they was.

Ol' master raised big patches of tobaccy an when dey gather it they let it dry an then put
it in lasses. After the lasses dripped off then they roll hit up an twisted it an let it dry
in the sun 10 or 12 days. It sho' was ready for some and chewin an hit was sweet an stuck together
so yo' could chew an spit an 'joy hit.

The way we got our perfume we took rose leaves, cape jasmines an sweet bazil an laid dem wid
our clo'es an let 'em stay three or fo' days then we had good smellin' clo'es that would las' too.

When there was distressful news master would ring the bell. When the niggers in the fiel' would
hear the bell everyone would lis'en an wonder what the trouble was. You'd see 'em stirrin'
too. They would always ring the bell at twelve 'clock. Sometime then they would think it was
some thin' serious an they would stan up straight but if they could see they shadow right under
'em they would know it was time for dinner.

The reason so many white folks was rich was they made money an didn' have nothin' to do but
save it. They made money an raised ev'ything they used, an jus' didn' have no use fo' money.
Didn' have no banks in them days an master buried his money.

The floo's in the big house was so pretty an white. We always kep' them scoured good. We didn'
know what it was to use soap. We jus' took oak ashes out of the fi'place and sprinkled them
on the floo' and scoured with a corn shuck mop. Then we would sweep the ashes off an rinse
two times an let it dry. When it dried it was the cleanes' floo' they was. To make it white,
clean sand was sprinkled on the floo' an we let it stay a couple of days then the floo' would
be too clean to walk on. The way we dried the floo' was with a sack an a rag. We would get
down on our knees an dry it so dry.

I 'member one night one of ol' master's girls was goin' to get married. That was after I was
big 'nough to cook an we was sho' doin' some cookin. Some of the niggers on the place jus'
natchally would steal so we cook a big cake of co'n-bread an iced it all pretty an put it out
to cool an some of 'em stole it. This way old master found out who was doin the stealin cause
it was such a joke on 'em they had to tell.

All ol' master's niggers was married by the white preacher but he had a neighbor who would
marry his niggers hisself. He would say to the man: "Do yo' want this woman?" and to the girl,
"Do yo' want this boy?" Then he would call the ol' mistress to fetch the broom an ol' master
would hold one end an ol' mistress the other an tell the boy and girl to jump dis broom and
he would say: "Dat's yo' wife." Dey called marryin' like that jumpin the broom.

Now chile I can't 'member everything I done in them days but we didn' have ter worry bout nothin.
Ol' mistress was the one to worry. Twasn't then like it is now, no twasn't. We had such a good
time an ev'ybody cried when the Yankees cried out: "Free." Tother niggers say dey had a hard
time 'fo' dey was free but twas then like tis now. If you had a hard time we don it ourselves.

Ol' master didn' want to part with his niggers an the niggers didn' wan' to part with ol' master
so they thought by comin to Arkansas they would have a chance to keep 'em. So they got on their
way. We loaded up our wagons an put up our wagon sheet an we had plenty to eat an plenty of
horse feed. We traveled bout 15 or 20 miles a day an would stop an camp at night. We would
cook enough in the morning to las' all day. The cows was drove t'gether. Some was gentle an
some was not an did dey have a time. I mean, dey had a time. While we was on our way ol' master
died an three of the slaves died too. We buried the slaves there but we camped while ol' master
was carried back to North Carolina. When ol' mistress come back we started on to Arkansas an
reached here safe but when we got here we foun' freedom here too. Ol' mistress begged us to
stay wid her an we stayed till she died then they took her back to Carolina. There wasn' nobody
lef' but Miss Nancy an she soon married an lef' an I los' track of her an Mr. Tom. I am a slave
chile. I am one of them. I had a gran' time in slavery time. I wuz born wid de white foks.
I stayed wid mah muthah at night but mah mistress raised me. I nussed mah mutha's gran'chile.
I churned and sot de table. When de baby go to sleep in de evenin' I put hit in de cradle.
An' I'd lay down by the cradle and go to sleep. Every evenin' I'd go git lida knots. I played
a lots. I wuz born 1849. We played Susanna Gals, and we just played jump rope. Jes' we gals
did. We played calling' cows. Dey'd come to us and we run from um. My [TR: 'I' corrected to
'My'] mistess wuz a millionaire. I went to school a while. I can count only lit bit. One uz
de girl made fun uz me. She kotch me nodding and we fit dare in de school house. Old log school
house. Dey had two big rooms. Ah went to de ole fokes' church. Young un too. We'd cry if we
didn't git ter go ter church wid ma and pa.

Our table was sot under a china berry tree and ooo-eee chile I can see hit now. We et on a
loal (oil) table cloth. When dey called us to de table dey would ring a bell. We didn' eat
out uz plates. We et outn gourds. We all et outn gourds. When I got big nuff ter cook I cooked
den. We had plenty to eat. We raised who-eee plenty meat. We raised our sugar, rice, peas,
chikens, eggs, cows. Who-eee chile we had plenty to eat. Our mistess had ovah a hunert (100)
niggers. Ole moster nevah did whip none uv us niggers. He tended de men and mistess always
tended to us. I wudden (wasn't) quite grown when I wuz married. We cooked out in de yard an'
on fireplaces too in dose big ubbens (ovens). We cooked greens in a wash pot jes like you boil
clothes, dats de way we cook greens. We cooked ash cakes too an we cooked persimmon braid (bread).
An evah thing we had wuz good too. We made our churns in dem days. Made dem outn cypress.

Evahbody cried when dem yankees cried out: "Free." We cried too; we hated hit so bad. We had
such a good time. I is gittin so ole I can't member so ever' thin' I done. Now chile ah cain't
member evah' thin' I done but in dem days we didn' have ter worry 'bout nothin'. Ole mistress
wuz de one ter worry. Twasn't den like hit is now. No Twasn't. Tother niggers say dey had er
hard time foe dem Yankee cried "Free" but it waz den jes like hit is now if you had a hard
time we done hit ourselves.

[HW: Negro food]

PERSIMMON PIE Make a crust like you would any other pie crust and take your persimmons and
wash them. Let them be good and ripe. Get the seed out of them. Don't cook them. Mash them
and put cinnamon and spice in and butter. Sugar to taste. Then roll your dough and put in custard
pan, and then add the filling, then put a top crust on it, sprinkle a little sugar on top and bake.

PERSIMMON CORNBREAD Sift meal and add your ingredients then your persimmons that have been
washed and the seeds taken out and mash them and put in and stir well together. Grease pan
well and pour in and bake. Eat with fresh meat.

PERSIMMON BEER Gather your persimmons, wash and put in a keg, cover well with water and add
about two cups of meal to it and let sour about three days. That makes a nice drink.

Boil persimmons just as you do prunes now day and they will answer for the same purpose.

ASH CAKE Two cups of meal and one teaspoon of salt and just enough hot water to make it stick
together. Roll out in pones and wrap in a corn shuck or collard leaves or paper. Lay on hot
ashes and cover with hot ashes and let cook about ten minutes.

CORNBREAD JOHNNY CAKE Two cups of meal, one half cup of flour about a teaspoon of soda, one
cup of syrup, one-half teaspoon salt, beat well. Add teaspoon of lard. Pour in greased pan
and bake.

[HW: Water or Milk added?]

