"How dare you belittle our establishment!" said Ada. "What do you think of Peter? Is Peter
nobody? And it was poor Florian who boiled the kettle. I really don't know whether we should
not get on better altogether without servants than with them." The breakfast was eaten both
by the Captain in the parlour and by Hunter in the kitchen in great good humour. "Now, my fine
fellow," said the former, "have you got your pistols ready? I don't think we shall want them
this morning, but it's as well not to give these fellows a chance." Hunter was pleased by being
thus called into council before the young ladies, and they both started in the highest good
humour. Captain Clayton, as he went, told himself that Ada Jones was the prettiest girl of
his acquaintance. His last sentimental affinity with the youngest Miss Ormesby waxed feeble
and insipid as he thought of Ada. Perhaps Edith, he said to himself, is the sharpest of the
two, but in good looks she can't hold a candle to her sister. So he passed on, and with his
myrmidon reached Galway, without incurring any impediment from Mr. Lax.

In the course of the morning, Mr. Jones sent for Florian, and proposed to walk out with him
about the demesne. "I don't think there will be any danger," he said. "Captain Clayton went
this morning, and the people don't know yet whether he has gone. I think it is better that
you should get accustomed to it, and not give way to idle fears." The boy apparently agreed
to this, and got his hat. But he did not leave the shelter of the house without sundry misgivings.
Mr. Jones had determined to act at once upon the Captain's advice, and had bethought himself
that he could best do so by telling the whole truth to the boy. "Now, Florian, I think it would
be as well that you and I should understand each other." Florian looked up at him with fearful
eyes, but made no reply. "Of course I was angry with you while you were hesitating about those
ruffians."

"Yes; you were," said Florian.

"I can quite understand that you have felt a difficulty."

"Yes, I did," said Florian.

"But that is all over now."

"If they don't fire at me it is over, I suppose, till August."

"They shan't fire at you. Don't be afraid. If they fire at you, they must fire at me too."
The father was walking with his arm about the boy's neck. "You, at any rate, shall incur no
danger which I do not share. You will understand--won't you--that my anger against you is passed
and gone?"

"I don't know," said the boy.

"It is so,--altogether. I hope to be able to send you to school in England very soon after
the trial is over. You shall go to Mr. Monro at first, and to Winchester afterwards, if I can
manage it. But we won't think of Winchester just at present. We must do the best we can to
get a good place for you on your first going into the school."

"I am not afraid about that," said Florian, thinking that at the time when the school should
have come all the evils of the trials would have been passed away and gone.

"All the same you might come and read with me every morning for an hour, and then for an hour
with each of your sisters. You will want something to do to make up your time. And remember,
Florian, that all my anger has passed away. We will be the best of friends, as in former days,
so that when the time shall have come for you to go into court, you may be quite sure that
you have a friend with you there."

To all this Florian made very little reply; but Mr. Jones remembered that he could not expect
to do much at a first attempt. Weary as the task would be he would persevere. For the task
would be weary even with his own son. He was a man who could do nothing graciously which he
could not do con amore. And he felt that all immediate warm liking for the poor boy had perished
in his heart. The boy had made himself the friend of such a one as Pat Carroll, and in his
friendship for him had lied grossly. Mr. Jones had told himself that it was his duty to forgive
him, and had struggled to perform his duty. For the performance of any deed necessary for the
boy's security, he could count upon himself. But he could not be happy in his company as he
was with Edith. The boy had been foully untrue to him--but still he would do his best.

CHAPTER XXIII.

TOM DALY IS BOYCOTTED.

When the time came round, Frank Jones started for Ballinasloe, with his father's cattle and
with Peter to help him. They did succeed in getting a boy to go with them, who had been seduced
by a heavy bribe to come down for the purpose from Ballinasloe to Morony Castle. As he had
been used to cattle, Peter's ignorance and Frank's also were of less account. They drove the
cattle to Tuam, and there got them on the railway, the railway with its servants being beyond
the power of the boycotters. At Ballinasloe they could not sell the cattle, as the name of
Mr. Jones of Morony had become terribly notorious throughout County Galway. But arrangements
had been made to send them to a salesman up in Dublin, and from Ballinasloe they had gone under
the custody of Peter and the boy. No attempt was made absolutely to harm the beasts, or even
to stop them in the streets. But throughout the town it seemed to be perfectly understood that
they were the property of Philip Jones of Morony Castle, and that Philip Jones had been boycotted
by the League. The poor beasts were sent on to Dublin without a truss of hay among them, and
even Frank himself was refused a meal at the first inn at which he had called. He did afterwards
procure accommodation; but he heard while in the house, that the innkeeper was threatened for
what he had done. Had it not been that Peter had brought with him a large basket of provisions
for himself and the boy, they, too, would have been forced to go on dinnerless and supperless
to Dublin.

Frank, on his way back home, resolved that he would call on Mr. Daly at Daly's Bridge, near
Castle Blakeney. It was Daly's wont to live at Daly's Bridge when the hounds were not hunting,
though he would generally go four or five times a week from Daly's Bridge to the kennels. To
Castle Blakeney a public car was running, and the public car did not dare, or probably did
not wish, to boycott anyone. He walked up to the open door at Daly's Bridge and soon found
himself in the presence of Black Tom Daly. "So you are boycotted?" said Tom.

"Horse, foot, and dragoons," said Frank.

"What's to come of it, I wonder?" Tom as he said this was sitting at an open window making
up some horse's drug to which was attached some very strong odour. "I am boycotted too, and
the poor hounds, which have given hours of amusement to many of these wretches, for which they
have not been called upon to pay a shilling. I shall have to sell the pack, I'm afraid," said
Tom, sadly.

"Not yet, I hope, Mr. Daly."

"What do you mean by that? Who's to keep them without any subscription? And who's to subscribe
without any prospect of hunting? For the matter of that who's to feed the poor dumb brutes?
One pack will be boycotted after another till not a pack of hounds will be wanted in all Ireland."

"Has the same thing happened to any other pack?" asked Frank.

"Certainly it has. They turned out against the Muskerry; and there's been a row in Kildare.
We are only at the beginning of it yet."

"I don't suppose it will go on for ever," said Frank.

"Why don't you suppose so? What's to be the end of it all? Do you see any way out of it?--for
I do not. Does your father see his way to bringing those meadows back into his hands? I'm told
that some of those fellows shot at Clayton the other day down at Headford. How are we to expect
a man like Clayton to come forward and be shot at in that fashion? As far as I can see there
will be no possibility for anyone to live in this country again. Of course it's all over with
me. I haven't got any rents to speak of, and the only property I possess is now useless."

"What property?" asked Frank.

"What property?" rejoined Tom in a voice of anger. "What property? Ain't the hounds property,
or were property a few weeks ago? Who'll subscribe for next year? We had a meeting in February,
you know, and the fellows put down their names the same as ever. But they can't be expected
to pay when there will be no coverts for them to draw. The country can do nothing to put a
stop to this blackguardism. When they've passed this Coercion Bill they're going to have some
sort of Land Bill,--just a law to give away the land to somebody. What's to come of the poor
country with such men as Mr. Gladstone and Mr. Bright to govern it? They're the two very worst
men in the whole empire for governing a country. Martial law with a regiment in each county,
and a strong colonel to carry it out,--that is the only way of governing left us. I don't pretend
to understand politics, but every child can see that. And you should do away with the constituencies,
at any rate for the next five years. What are you to expect with such a set of men as that
in Parliament,--men whom no one would speak to if they were to attempt to ride to hounds in
County Galway. It makes me sick when I hear of it."

Such were Tom Daly's sad outlooks into the world. And sad as they were, they seemed to be justified
by circumstances as they operated upon him. There could be no hunting in County Galway next
session unless things were to change very much for the better. And there was no prospect of
any such change. "It's nonsense talking of a poor devil like me being ruined. You ask me what
property I have got."

"I don't think I ever asked that," said Frank.

"It don't matter. You're quite welcome. You'll find eight or nine pair of leather breeches
in that press in there. And round about the room somewhere there are over a dozen pair of top-boots.
They are the only available property I have got. They are paid for, and I can do what I please
with them. The four or five hundred acres over there on the road to Tuam are mostly bog, and
are strictly entailed so that I cannot touch them. As there is not a tenant will pay the rent
since I've been boycotted it doesn't make much matter. I have not had a shilling from them
for more than twelve months; and I don't suppose I ever shall see another. The poor hounds
are eating their heads off; as fine a pack of hounds as any man ever owned, as far as their
number goes. I can't keep them, and who'll buy them? They tell me I must send them over to
Tattersall's. But as things are now I don't suppose they'll pay the expense. I don't care who
knows it, but I haven't three hundred pounds in the world. And I'm over fifty years of age.
What do you think of that as the condition for a man to be brought to?"

Frank Jones had never heard Daly speak at such length before, nor had he given him credit for
so much eloquence. Nor, indeed, had anyone in the County of Galway heard him speak so many
words till this misfortune had fallen upon him. And he would still be silent and reserved with
all except a few hunting men whom he believed to be strongly influenced by the same political
feeling as he was himself. Here was he boycotted most cruelly, but not more cruelly than was
Mr. Jones of Morony Castle. The story of Florian Jones had got about the county, and had caused
Mr. Jones to be pitied greatly by such men as Tom Daly. "His own boy to turn against him!"
Tom had said. "And to become a Papist! A boy of ten years old to call himself a Papist, as
if he would know anything about it. And then to lie,--to lie like that! I feel that his case
is almost worse than mine." Therefore he had burst out with his sudden eloquence to Frank Jones,
whom he had liked. "Oh, yes! I can send you over to Woodlawn Station. I have got a horse and
car left about the place. Here's William Persse of Galway. He's the stanchest man we have in
the county, but even he can do nothing."

Then Mr. Persse rode into the yard,--that Mr. Persse who, when the hounds met at Ballytowngal,
had so strongly dissuaded Daly from using his pistol. He was a man who was reputed to have
a good income, or at any rate a large estate,--though the two things at the present moment
were likely to have a very various meaning. But he was a man less despondent in his temperament
than Tom Daly, and one that was likely to prevail with Tom by the strength of his character.
"Well, Tom," said Persse, as he walked into the house, "how are things using you now? How are
you, Jones? I'm afraid your father is getting it rather hot at Morony Castle."

"They've boycotted us, that's all."

"So I understand. Is it not odd that some self-appointed individual should send out an edict,
and that suddenly all organised modes of living among people should be put a stop to! Here's
Tom not allowed to get a packet of greaves into his establishment unless he sends to Dublin
for it."

"Nor to have it sent over here," said Tom, "unless I'll send my own horse and cart to fetch
it. And every man and boy I have about the place is desired to leave me at the command of some
d----d O'Toole, whose father kept a tinker's shop somewhere in County Mayo, and whose mother
took in washing."

There was a depth of scorn intended to be conveyed by all this, because in Daly's estimation
County Mayo was but a poor county to live in, as it had not for many a year possessed an advertised
pack of fox-hounds. And the O'Tooles were not one of the tribes of Galway, or a clan especially
esteemed in that most aristocratic of the western counties.

"Have all the helpers gone?"

"I haven't asked them to stay; but unless they have stayed of their own accord I have just
shaken hands with them. It's all that one gentleman can do to another when he meets him."

"Mr. Daly is talking of selling the hounds," said Frank Jones.

"Not quite yet, Tom," said Mr. Persse. "You mustn't do anything in a hurry."

"They'll have to starve if they remain here," said the master of hounds.

"I have come over here to say a word about them. I don't suppose this kind of thing will last
for ever, you know."

"Can you see any end to it?" said the other.

"Not as yet I can't, except that troubles when they come generally do have an end. We always
think that evils will last for ever,--and blessings too. When two-year-old ewes went up to
three pound ten at Ballinasloe, we thought that we were to get that price for ever, but they
were soon down to two seventeen six; and when we had had two years of the potato famine, we
thought that there would never be another potato in County Galway. For the last five years
we've had them as fine at Doneraile as ever I saw them. Nobody is ever quite ruined, or quite
has his fortune made."

"I am very near the ruin," said Tom Daly.

"I would struggle to hold on a little longer yet," said the other. "How many horses have you
got here and at Ahaseragh?"

"There are something over a dozen," said Tom. "There may be fifteen in all. I was thinking
of sending a draught over to Tattersall's next week. There are some of them would not be worth
a five-and-twenty-pound note when you got them there!"

"Well, now I'll tell you what I propose. You shall send over four or five to be summered at
Doneraile. There is grass enough there, and though I can't pay my debts, my credit is good
at the corn-chandler's." Black Tom, as he heard this, sat still looking blacker than ever.
He was a man who hated to have a favour offered to him. But he could bear the insult better
from Persse of Doneraile than from anyone else in the county. "I've talked the matter over
with Lynch--"

"D---- Lynch," said Daly. He didn't dislike Sir Jasper, but Sir Jasper did not stand quite
so high in his favour as did Mr. Persse of Doneraile.

"You needn't d---- anybody; but just listen to me. Sir Jasper says that he will take three,
and Nicholas Bodkin will do the same."

"They are both baronets," said Daly. "I hate a man with a handle to his name; he always seems
to me to be stuck-up, as though he demanded something more than other people. There is that
Lord Ardrahan--"

"A very good fellow too. Don't you be an ass. Lord Ardrahan has offered to take three more."

"I knew it," said Tom.

"It's not as though any favour were offered or received. Though the horses are your own property,
they are kept for the services of the hunt. We all understand very well how things are circumstanced
at present."

"How do you think I am to feed my hounds if you take away the horses which they would eat?"
said Daly, with an attempt at a grim joke. But after the joke Tom became sad again, almost
to tears, and he allowed his friend to make almost what arrangements he pleased for distributing
both hounds and horses among the gentry of the hunt. "And when they are gone," said he, "I
am to sit here alone with nothing on earth to do. What on earth is to become of me when I have
not a hound left to give a dose of physic to?"

"We'll not leave you in such a sad strait as that," said Mr. Persse.

"It will be sad enough. If you had had a pack of hounds to look after for thirty summers, you
wouldn't like to get rid of them in a hurry. I'm like an old nurse who is sending her babies
out, or some mother, rather, who is putting her children into the workhouse because she cannot
feed them herself. It is sad, though you don't see it in that light."

Frank Jones got home to Castle Morony that night full of sorrow and trouble. The cattle had
been got off to Dublin in their starved condition, but he, as he had come back, had been boycotted
every yard of the way. He could get in no car, nor yet in all Tuam could he secure the services
of a boy to carry his bag for him. He learned in the town that the girls had sent over to purchase
a joint of meat, but had been refused at every shop. "Is trade so plentiful?" asked Frank,
"that you can afford to do without it?"

"We can't afford to do with it," said the butcher, "if it's to come from Morony Castle."

CHAPTER XXIV.

"FROM THE FULL HEART THE MOUTH SPEAKS."

Ada was making the beds upstairs, and Edith was churning the butter down below in the dairy,
when a little bare-footed boy came in with a letter.

"Please, miss, it's from the Captain, and he says I'm not to stir out of this till I come back
with an answer."

The letter was delivered to Edith at the dairy door, and she saw that it was addressed to herself.
She had never before seen the Captain's handwriting, and she looked at it somewhat curiously.
"If he's to write to one of us it should be to Ada," she said to herself, laughing. Then she
opened the envelope, which enclosed a large square stout letter. It contained a card and a
written note, and on the card was an invitation, as follows: "The Colonel and Officers of the
West Bromwich Regiment request the pleasure of the company of Mr. Jones, the Misses Jones,
and Mr. Francis Jones to a dance at the Galway Barracks, on the 20th of May, 1881. Dancing
to commence at ten o'clock."

Then there was the note, which Edith read before she took the card upstairs.

"My dear Miss Jones," the letter began. Edith again looked at the envelope and perceived that
the despatch had been certainly addressed to herself--Miss Edith Jones; but between herself
and her sister there could be no jealousy as to the opening of a letter. Letters for one were
generally intended for the other also.

   I hope you will both come. You ought to do so to show
   the county that, though you are boycotted, you are not
   smashed, and to let them understand that you are not
   afraid to come out of the house although certain persons
   have made themselves terrible. I send this to you instead
   of to your sister, because perhaps you have a little
   higher pluck. But do tell your father from me that I think
   he ought, as a matter of policy, to insist on your both
   coming. You could come down by the boat one day and return
   the next; and I'll meet you, for fear your brother should
   not be there.--Yours very faithfully,

   YORKE CLAYTON.

   I have got the fellows of the West Bromwich to entrust the
   card to me, and have undertaken to see it duly delivered.
   I hope you'll approve of my Mercury. Hunter says he
   doesn't care how often he's shot at.

It was, in the first place, necessary to provide for the Mercury, because even a god cannot
be sent away after the performance of such a journey without some provisions; and Edith, to
tell the truth, wanted to look at the ball all round before she ventured to express an opinion
to her sister and father. Her father, of course, would not go; but should he be left alone
at Morony Castle to the tender mercies of Peter? and should Florian be left also without any
woman's hands to take charge of him? And the butter, too, was on the point of coming, which
was a matter of importance. But at last, having pulled off her butter-making apron and having
duly patted the roll of butter, she went upstairs to her sister.

"Ada," she said, "here is such a letter;" and she held up the letter and the card.

"Who is it from?"

"You must guess," said Edith.

"I am bad at guessing, I cannot guess. Is it Mr. Blake of Carnlough?"

"A great deal more interesting than that."

"It can't be Captain Clayton," said Ada.

"Out of the full heart the mouth speaks. It is Captain Clayton."

"What does he say, and what is the card? Give it me. It looks like an invitation."

"Then it tells no story, because it is an invitation. It is from the officers of the West Bromwich
regiment; and it asks us to a dance on the 20th of May."

"But that's not from Captain Clayton."

"Captain Clayton has written,--to me and not to you at all. You will be awfully jealous; and
he says that I have twice as much courage as you."

"That's true, at any rate," said Ada, in a melancholy tone.

"Yes; and as the officers want all the girls at the ball to be at any rate as brave as themselves,
that's a matter of great importance. He has asked me to go with a pair of pistols at my belt;
but he is afraid that you would not shoot anybody."

"May I not look at his letter?"

"Oh, no! That would not be at all proper. The letter is addressed to me, Miss Edith Jones.
And as it has come from such a very dashing young man, and pays me particular compliments as
to my courage, I don't think I shall let anybody else see it. It doesn't say anything special
about beauty, which I think uncivil. If he had been writing to you, it would all have been
about feminine loveliness of course."

"What nonsense you do talk, Edith."

"Well, there it is. As you will read it, you must. You'll be awfully disappointed, because
there is not a word about you in it."

Then Ada read the letter. "He says he hopes we shall both come."

"Well, yes! Your existence is certainly implied in those words."

"He explains why he writes to you instead of me."

"Another actual reference to yourself, no doubt. But then he goes on to talk of my pluck."

"He says it's a little higher than mine," said Ada, who was determined to extract from the
Captain's words as much good as was possible, and as little evil to herself.

"So it is; only a little higher pluck! Of course he means that I can't come near himself."

"You wouldn't pretend to?" asked Ada.

"What! to be shot at like him, and to like it. I don't know any girl that can come quite up
to that. Only if one becomes quite cock-sure, as he is, that one won't be hit, I don't see
the courage."

"Oh, I do!"

"But now about this ball?" said Edith. "Here we are, lone damsels, making butter in our father's
halls, and turning down the beds in the lady's chamber, unable to buy anything because we are
boycotted, and with no money to buy it if we were not. And we can't stir out of the house lest
we should be shot, and I don't suppose that such a thing as a pair of gloves is to be got anywhere."

"I've got gloves for both of us," said Ada.

"Put by for a rainy day. What a girl you are for providing for difficulties! And you've got
silk stockings too, I shouldn't wonder."

"Of course I have."

"And two ball dresses, quite new?"

"Not quite new. They are those we wore at Hacketstown before the flood."

"Good gracious! How were Noah's daughters dressed? Or were they dressed at all?"

"You always turn everything into nonsense," said Ada, petulantly.

"To be told I'm to wear a dress that had touched the heart of a patriarch, and had perhaps
gone well nigh to make me a patriarch's bride! But taking it for granted that the ball dresses
with all their appurtenances are here, fit to win the heart of a modern Captain instead of
an old patriarch, is there no other reason why we should not go?"

"What reason?" asked Ada, in a melancholy tone.

"There are reasons. You go to papa, and see whether he has not reasons. He will tell you that
every shilling should be saved for Florian's school."

"It won't take many shillings to go to Galway. We couldn't well write to Captain Clayton and
tell him that we can't afford it."

"People keep those reasons in the background," said Edith, "though people understand them.
And then papa will say that in our condition we ought to be ashamed to show our faces."

"What have we done amiss?"

"Not you or I perhaps," said Edith; "but poor Florian. I am determined,--and so are you,--to
take Florian to our very hearts, and to forgive him as though this thing had never been done.
He is to us the same darling boy, as though he had never been present at the flood gates; as
though he had had no hand in bringing these evils to Morony Castle. You and I have been angry,
but we have forgiven him. To us he is as dear as ever he was. But they know in the county what
it was that was done by Florian Jones, and they talk about it among themselves, and they speak
of you and me as Florian's sisters. And they speak of papa as Florian's father. I think it
may well be that papa should not wish us to go to this ball."

Then there came a look of disappointment over Ada's face, as though her doom had already been
spoken. A ball to Ada, and especially a ball at Galway,--a coming ball,--was a promise of infinite
enjoyment; but a ball with Captain Yorke Clayton would be heaven on earth. And by the way in
which this invitation had come he had been secured as a partner for the evening. He could not
write to them, and especially call upon them to come without doing all he could to make the
evening pleasant for them. She included Edith in all these promises of pleasantness. But Edith,
if the thing was to be done at all, would do it all for Ada. As for the danger in which the
man passed his life, that must be left in the hands of God. Looking at it with great seriousness,
as in the midst of her joking she did look at these things, she told herself that Ada was very
lovely, and that this man was certainly lovable. And she had taken it into her imagination
that Captain Clayton was certainly in the road to fall in love with Ada. Why should not Ada
have her chance? And why should not the Captain have his? Why should not she have her chance
of having a gallant lovable gentleman for a brother-in-law? Edith was not at all prepared to
give the world up for lost, because Pat Carroll had made himself a brute, and because the neighbours
were idiots and had boycotted them. It must all depend upon their father, whether they should
or should not go to the ball. And she had not thought it prudent to appear too full of hope
when talking of it to Ada; but for herself she quite agreed with the Captain that policy required
them to go.

"I suppose you would like it?" she said to her sister.

"I always was fond of dancing," replied Ada.

"Especially with heroes."

"Of course you laugh at me, but Captain Clayton won't be there as an officer; he's only a resident
magistrate."

"He's the best of all the officers," said Edith with enthusiasm. "I won't have our hero run
down. I believe him to have twice as much in him as any of the officers. He's the gallantest
fellow I know. I think we ought to go, if it's only because he wants it."

"I don't want not to go," said Ada.

"I daresay not; but papa will be the difficulty."

"He'll think more of you than of me, Edith. Suppose you go and talk to him."

So it was decided; and Edith went away to her father, leaving Ada still among the beds. Of
Frank not a word had been spoken. Frank would go as a matter of course if Mr. Jones consented.
But Ada, though she was left among the beds, did not at once go on with her work; but sat down
on that special bed by which her attention was needed, and thought of the circumstances which
surrounded her. Was it a fact that she was in love with the Captain? To be in love to her was
a very serious thing,--but so delightful. She had been already once,--well, not in love, but
preoccupied just a little in thinking of one young man. The one young man was an officer, but
was now in India, and Ada had not ventured even to mention his name in her father's presence.
Edith had of course known the secret, but Edith had frowned upon it. She had said that Lieutenant
Talbot was no better than a stick, although he had £400 a year of his own. "He'd give you nothing
to talk about," said Edith, "but his £400 a year." Therefore when Lieutenant Talbot went to
India, Ada Jones did not break her heart. But now Edith called Captain Clayton a hero, and
seemed in all respects to approve of him; and Edith seemed to think that he certainly admired
Ada. It was a dreadful thing to have to fall in love with a woodcock. Ada felt that if, as
things went on, the woodcock should become her woodcock, the bullet which reached his heart
would certainly pierce her own bosom also. But such was the way of the world. Edith had seemed
to think that the man was entitled to have a lady of his own to love; and if so, Ada seemed
to think that the place would be one very well suited to herself. Therefore she was anxious
for the ball; and at the present moment thought only of the difficulties to be incurred by
Edith in discussing the matter with her father.

"Papa, Captain Clayton wants us to go to a ball at Galway," it was thus that Edith began her task.

"Wants you to go a ball! What has Captain Clayton to do with you two?"

"Nothing on earth;--at any rate not with me. Here is his letter, which speaks for itself. He
seems to think that we should show ourselves to everybody around, to let them know that we
are not crushed by what such a one as Pat Carroll can do to us."

"Who says that we are crushed?"

"It is the people who are crushed that generally say so of themselves. There would be nothing
unusual under ordinary circumstances in your daughters going to a ball at Galway."

"That's as may be."

"We can stay the night at Mrs. D'Arcy's, and she will be delighted to have us. If we never
show ourselves it would be as though we acknowledged ourselves to be crushed. And to tell the
truth, papa, I don't think it is quite fair to Ada to keep her here always. She is very beautiful,
and at the same time fond of society. She is doing her duty here bravely; there is nothing
about the house that she will not put her hand to. She is better than any servant for the way
she does her work. I think you ought to let her go; it is but for the one night."

"And you?" asked the father.

"I must go with her, I suppose, to keep her company."

"And are not you fond of society?"

"No;--not as she is. I like the rattle very well just for a few minutes."

"And are not you beautiful?" he asked.

"Good gracious, no! Don't be such a goose, papa."

"To me you are quite as lovely as is Ada."

"Because you are only a stupid, old papa," but she kissed him as she said it. "You have no
right to expect to have two beauties in the family. If I were a beauty I should go away and
leave you, as will Ada. It's her destiny to be carried off by someone. Why not by some of these
gallant fellows at Galway? It's my destiny to remain at home; and so you may know what you
have got to expect."

"If it should turn out to be so, there will be one immeasurable comfort to me in the midst
of all my troubles."

"It shall be so," said she, whispering into his ear. "But, papa, you will let us go to this
ball in Galway, will you not? Ada has set her heart upon it." So the matter was settled.

The answer to Captain Clayton, sent by Edith, was as follows; but it was not sent till the
boy had been allowed to stuff himself with buttered toast and tea, which, to such a boy, is
the acme of all happiness.

   Morony Castle, 8th of May, 1881.

   DEAR CAPTAIN CLAYTON,

   We will both come, of course, and are infinitely obliged
   to you for the trouble you have taken on our behalf. Papa
   will not come, of course. Frank will, no doubt; but he is
   out after a salmon in the Hacketstown river. I hope he
   will get one, as we are badly off for provisions. If he
   cannot find a salmon, I hope he will find trout, or we
   shall have nothing for three days running. Ada and I think
   we can manage a leg of mutton between us, as far as the
   cooking goes, but we haven't had a chance of trying our
   hands yet. Frank, however, will write to the officers by
   post. We shall sleep the night at Mrs. D'Arcy's, and can
   get there very well by ourselves. All the same, we shall
   be delighted to see you, if you will come down to the
   boat.

   Yours very truly,

   EDITH JONES.

   I must tell you what Ada said about our dresses, only pray
   don't tell any of the officers. Of course we had to have a
   consultation about our frocks, because everything in the
   shops is boycotted for us. "Oh," said Ada, "there are the
   gauze dresses we wore at Hacketstown before the flood!"
   Only think of Ada and I at a ball with the Miss Noahs,
   four or five thousand years ago.

Frank consented to go of course, but not without some little difficulty. He didn't think it
was a time for balls. According to his view of things ginger should be no longer hot in the mouth.

"But why not?" said Edith. "If a ball at any time is a good thing, why should it be bad now?
Are we all to go into mourning, because Mr. Carroll has so decreed? For myself I don't care
twopence for the ball. I don't think it is worth the ten shillings which it will cost. But
I am all for showing that we don't care so much for Mr. Carroll."

"Carroll is in prison," said Frank.

"Nor yet for Terry Lax, or Tim Brady, or Terry Carroll, or Tony Brady. The world is not to
be turned away from its proper course by such a scum of men as that. Of course you'll do as
a brother should do, and come with us."

To this Frank assented, and on the next day went out for another salmon, thinking no more about
the party at Galway.

But the party at Galway was a matter of infinite trouble and infinite interest to the two girls.
Those dresses which had been put by from before the flood were brought forth, and ironed, and
re-ribboned, and re-designed, as though the fate of heroes and heroines depended upon them.
And it was clearly intended that the fate of one hero and of one heroine should depend on them,
though nothing absolutely to that effect was said at present between the sisters. It was not
said, but it was understood by both of them that it was so; and each understood what was in
the heart of the other. "Dear, dear Edith," said Ada. "Let them boycott us as they will," said
Edith, "but my pet shall be as bright as any of them." There was a ribbon that had not been
tossed, a false flower that had on it something of the bloom of newness. A faint offer was
made by Ada to abandon some of these prettinesses to her sister, but Edith would have none
of them. Edith pooh-poohed the idea as though it were monstrous. "Don't be a goose, Ada," she
said; "of course this is to be your night. What does it signify what I wear?"

"Oh, but it does;--just the same as for me. I don't see why you are not to be just as nice
as myself."

"That's not true, my dear."

"Why not true? There is quite as much depends on your good fortune as on mine. And then you
are so much the cleverer of the two."

Then when the day for the ball drew near, there came to be some more serious conversation between
them.

"Ada, love, you mean to enjoy yourself, don't you?"

"If I can I will. When I go to these things I never know whether they will lead to enjoyment
or the reverse. Some little thing happens so often, and everything seems to go wrong."

"They shouldn't go wrong with you, my pet."

"Why not with me as well as with others?"

"Because you are so beautiful to look at. You are made to be queen of a ball-room; not a London
ball-room, where everything, I take it, is flash and faded, painted and stale, and worn out;
but down here in the country, where there is some life among us, and where a girl may be supposed
to be excited over her dancing. It is in such rooms as this that hearts are won and lost; a
bid made for diamonds is all that is done in London."

"I never was at a London ball," said Ada.

"Nor I either; but one reads of them. I can fancy a man really caring for a girl down in Galway.
Can you fancy a man caring for a girl?"

"I don't know," said Ada.

"For yourself, now?"

"I don't think anybody will ever care much for me."

"Oh, Ada, what a fib. It is all very pretty, your mock modestly, but it is so untrue. A man
not love you! Why, I can fancy a man thinking that the gods could not allow him a greater grace
than the privilege of taking you in his arms."

"Isn't anyone to take you in his arms, then?"

"No, no one. I am not a thing to be looked at in that light. I mean eventually to take to women's
rights, and to make myself generally odious. Only I have promised to stick to papa, and I have
got to do that first. You;--who will you stick to?"

"I don't know," said Ada.

"If I were to suggest Captain Yorke Clayton? If I were to suppose that he is the man who is
to have the privilege?"

"Don't, Edith."

"He is my hero, and you are my pet, and I want to bring you two together. I want to have my
share in the hero; and still to keep a share in my pet. Is not that rational?"

"I don't know that there is anything rational in it all," said Ada. But still she went to bed
well pleased that night.

CHAPTER XXV.

THE GALWAY BALL.

When the 20th of May came, the three started off together for Galway, happy in spite of their
boycotting. The girls at least were happy, though Frank was still somewhat sombre as he thought
of the edict which Rachel O'Mahony had pronounced against him. When the boat arrived at the
quay at Galway, Captain Clayton, with one of the officers of the West Bromwich, was there to
meet it. "He is a wise man," whispered Edith to Ada, "he takes care to provide for number one."

"I don't see that at all," said Ada.

"That brave little warrior, who is four feet and a half high, is intended for my escort. Two
is company and three is none. I quite agree as to that." Then they left the boat, and Edith
so arranged the party that she was to walk between the small warrior and her brother, whereas
Ada followed with Captain Clayton. In such straits of circumstances a man always has to do
what he is told. Presence of mind and readiness is needful, but the readiness of a man is never
equal to that of a woman. So they went off to Mrs. D'Arcy's house, and Ada enjoyed all the
little preliminary sweets of the Captain's conversation. The words that were spoken all had
reference to Edith herself; but they came from the Captain and were assuredly sweet.

"And it's really true that you are boycotted?" Mrs. D'Arcy asked.

"Certainly it's true."

"And what do they do to you? Do all the servants leave you?"

"Unless there be any like Peter who make up their minds to face the wrath of Landleaguers.
Peter has lived with us a long time, and has to ask himself whether it will be best for him
to stay or go."

"And he stays? What a noble fellow," said Mrs. D'Arcy.

"What would he do with himself if he didn't stay?" said Edith. "I don't suppose they'd shoot
him, and he gets plenty to eat. The girls who were in the house and the young men about the
place had friends of their own living near them, so they thought it better to go. Everybody
of course does what is best for himself. And Peter, though he has suited himself, is already
making a favour of it. Papa told him only yesterday that he might go himself if he pleased.
Only think, we had to send all the horses last week into Galway to be shod;--and then they
wouldn't do it, except one man who made a tremendous favour of it, and after doing it charged
double."

"But won't they sell you anything at Tuam?"

"Not a ha'porth. We couldn't get so much as soap for house-washing, unless Mrs. Blake had stood
by us and let us have her soap. Ada and I have to do every bit of washing about the place.
I do think well of Peter because he insists on washing his own shirts and stockings. Unfortunately
we haven't got a mangle, and we have to iron the sheets if we want them to look at all nice.
Ada's sheets and mine, and Florian's, are only just rough pressed. Of course we get tea and
those things down from Dublin. Only think of the way in which the tradespeople are ruining
themselves. Everything has to go to Dublin to be sold: potatoes and cattle, and now butter.
Papa says that they won't pay for the carriage. When you come to think of it, this boycotting
is the most ruinous invention on both sides. When poor Florian declared that he would go to
mass after he had first told the story about Pat Carroll, they swore they would boycott the
chapel if he entered the door. Not a single person would stay to receive the mass. So he wouldn't
go. It was not long after that when he became afraid to show his face outside the hall-door."

"And yet you can come here to this ball?" said Mrs. D'Arcy.

"Exactly so. I will go where I please till they boycott the very roads from under my feet.
I expect to hear soon that they have boycotted Ada and me, so that no young man shall come
and marry us. Of course, I don't understand such things, but it seems to me that the Government
should interfere to defend us."

When the evening came, and the witching hour was there, Ada and Edith appeared at the barracks
as bright as their second-hand finery could make them. They had awarded to them something of
especial glory as being boycotted heroines, and were regarded with a certain amount of envy
by the Miss Blakes, Miss Bodkins, Miss Lamberts, Miss Ffrenchs, and Miss Parsons of the neighbourhood.
They had, none of them, as yet achieved the full honours of boycotting, though some of them
were half-way to it. The Miss Ffrenchs told them how their father's sheep had been boycotted,
the shepherd having been made to leave his place. The Miss Blakes had been boycotted because
their brother had been refused a car. And the Bodkins of Ballytowngal were held to have been
boycotted en masse because of the doings at Moytubber gorse. But none of them had been boycotted
as had been the Miss Jones'; and therefore the Miss Jones' were the heroines of the evening.

"I declare it is very nice," Ada said to her sister that night, when they got home to Mrs.
D'Arcy's, "because it got for us the pick of all the partners."

"It got for you one partner, at any rate," said Edith, "either the boycotting or something
else." Edith had determined that it should be so; or had determined at any rate that it should
seem to be so. In her resolution that the hero of the day should fall in love with her sister,
she had almost taught herself to think that the process had already taken place. It was so
natural that the bravest man should fall in love with the fairest lady, that Edith took it
for granted that it already was so. She too in some sort was in love with her own sister. Ada
to her was so fair, so soft, so innocent, so feminine and so lovable, that her very heart was
in the project,--and the project that Ada should have the hero of the hour to herself. And
yet she too had a heart of her own, and had told herself in so many words, that she herself
would have loved the man,--had it been fitting that she should burden him with such a love.
She had rejected the idea as unfitting, impossible, and almost unfeminine. There was nothing
in her to attract the man. The idea had sprung up but for a moment, and had been cast out as
being monstrous. There was Ada, the very queen of beauty. And the gallant hero was languishing
in her smiles. It was thus that her imagination carried her on, after the notion had once been
entertained. At the ball Edith did in fact dance with Captain Clayton quite as often as did
Ada herself, but she danced with him, she said, as the darling sister of his supposed bride.
All her talk had been about Ada,--because Edith had so chosen the subject. But with Ada the
conversation had all been about Edith, because the Captain had selected the subject.

We all know how a little party is made up on such occasions. Though the party dance also with
other people on occasions, they are there especially to dance with each other. An interloper
or two now and again is very useful, so as to keep up appearances. The little warrior whom
Edith had ill-naturedly declared to be four feet and a half high, but who was in truth five
feet and a half, made up the former. Frank did not do much dancing, devoting himself to thinking
of Rachel O'Mahony. The little man, who was a distinguished officer named Captain Butler, of
the West Bromwich, had a very good time of it, dancing with Ada when Captain Clayton was not
doing so. "The greatest brick I ever saw in my life!"--it was thus Captain Butler afterwards
spoke of Edith, "but Ada is the girl for me, you know." Had Edith heard this, which she could
not do, because she was then on the boat going back to Morony Castle, she would have informed
Captain Butler that Ada was not the girl for him; but Captain Clayton, who heard the announcement
made, did not seem to be much disturbed by it.

"It was a very nice party, Mrs. D'Arcy," said Edith the next morning.

"Was there a supper?"

"There was plenty to eat and drink, if you mean that, but we did not waste our time sitting
down. I hate having to sit down opposite to a great ham when I am in the full tide of my emotions."

"There were emotions then?"

"Of course there were. What's the good of a ball without them? Fancy Captain Butler and no
emotions, or Captain Clayton! Ask Ada if there were not. But as far as we were concerned, it
was I who had the best of it. Captain Butler was my special man for the evening, and he had
on a beautiful red jacket with gold buttons. You never saw anything so lovely. But Captain
Clayton had just a simple black coat. That is so ugly, you know."

