[Footnote r: Several Travellers say that the Birds called Pengwyn have not a White Head: that
is, in the Countries where they saw them. But is it not certain that some Birds vary in Plumage
in different Climates? In this Island the Royston Crow, as it in called is different in its
Plumage from other Crows.]

Mr. Jones's Narrative shews that the Descendants of Madog's Colony were, in some measure, a
distinct people in the Year 1660. He not only conversed freely with them, but preached to them
in his Native Tongue.

When the Spaniards conquered, or rather massacred the Inhabitants of Mexico, they found among
them some traces of Christianity. The sign of the Cross was highly honoured, possibly worshiped
by them. Having been so many Ages separated from other Christians, their Religion, more and
more, degenerated into Superstition; as, notwithstanding superior advantages, it did in Europe
and in Asia.

Besides, the Similarity of Dialects in different places, already taken notice of, inclines
me to believe that Madog's Colony, in process of Time, extended itself much farther than the
Country on which they first landed; for we find several British Words in other places, and
in some of the West Indian Islands.[s]

[Footnote s: About 90 Leagues to the South East of Mauritius, an Island in the East Indian
Ocean, possessed by the French, there is another island about 50 Miles round, former called
Degarroys, at present, Deigo Rayes, which name seems derived from the British Word, Digarad,
"unlovely." "utterly forsaken." "Void of all human Beings." This was the state of the Island
in the last Century, but whether it be now peopled or not, I cannot say. However, it is well
furnished with provisions. See Herberts Travels.]

The Island Curassoa, or Curazao, possessed by the Dutch, may have had its name from the British
Word, Croesaw, or Croeso, "Wellcome;" possibly so called for Joy at the sight of Land after
a long and dangerous Voyage. Recounted how few, and with such art, which he believed history,
although it was a lie, and the audience used to believe it too. It seems that the imagination
and memory were in Count one and only faculty of the soul.

He was petulant, but smugly cute, cheerful and sweet, no one offended.

Its fine Figure nice manners and did much to produce such good effect.

That night they had taken to denigrate everything. Reminding the Russian princess, the ladies
English to German Countess, the French du Faubourg Saint-Germain,
and even the Phanariotes Greek, which was treated with the utmost
privacy, it was not worth holding a damn all women who were walking
at that time in the outfield.

"Just - he said - if this whole miserable crowd can cull half dozen warrant a declaration of love.
"

Friends challenged as cruel censorship, and the Count, to defend himself, holding his opinion
grace and naturalness.

As was well disputed and walking, he suddenly noticed that he walked in front of two women
two tiny, slim, young people apparently, but only from behind the saw, and something had heard
and continued to hear of his diatribe and dispute, because occasionally
whispering and laughed, as if their comments to the conversation of
those who came back.

Conde had not seen the face of any of those
two women. The costume of them all eye was remarkably vulgar and profane.
The one dressed in black silk light and the other a dark suit of calico
poor, the two were on their blanket. The Saxons were so very illiterate
when they were called to Britain by Vortigern, in Welsh, Gwrtheyrn, that they could neither
write nor read. And for that reason Messengers were sent to them from Britain, with a verbal
Invitation. Mr. Llwyd has proved that the Welsh furnished the Anglo-Saxons with an Alphabet.
See a Welsh Book entitled Drych y prif Oesoedd, "a view of the Primitive Ages," by the above
named Mr. Theophilus Evans. p. 96. note. They
looked as if they were of the airs of our family, and they were all different. The older and
smaller in stature - with the dress, was brunette, with dark eyes and black hair, red lips like cherries
and extremely white teeth that showed when she smiled. This Prince, however dull and sottish, might
have sense enough to see that be could no where be in a worse condition than he was in his
Native Country. There he could not live in safety, being always surrounded by a lawless Banditti,
who sacrificed their Friends, Relations, and even their Parents, to inherit their Dominions
or Possessions, which after all, for the most part, were only a small beggarly, wild, and uncultivated
District; ragged Rocks and Precipices; barren Mountains; or boggy, unfruitful, and unfriendly Soil.

If an Objection be made to the Truth of Madog's Voyages, grounded upon the silence of History
for so many Years, it may with no great difficulty be answered.[v]

[Footnote v: The History of the Gwedir Family by Sir John Wynne, published by the Honorable
Daines Barrington, 1773, and afterwards in his Miscellanies, in 1781, takes no notice of Madog's
Voyages; but mentions him as a Son of Owen Gwynedd. Same thing will happen to the bulls. You can even argue
that the buffs are more invincible. The reasons adduced against them are infinitely less justified.

Sublime
spectacle, no doubt, is to see a handsome boy, with no defense or
floating shield red veil, wearing silk, dressed to party or dance
that fierce and terrible struggle, stand in front of angry and powerful
beast, calling himself and kill him early, falling on it with the
sharp steel.

If, unfortunately, regardless of the bullfighter who at that moment died, his death, if not moral,
will not some beautiful, and pity and terror who causes the beauty will be purified according
to the rules of tragedy, written by the great Greek philosopher.


The Antients were incapable of pursuing foreign discoveries by Land or Sea. Their notion of
the Figure of the Earth was not just, for most of them thought that it was a flat extensive
plain. Their Knowlege of Astronomy was very much confined; and their Ignorance of the Properties
of the Loadstone would prevent their undertaking any Voyage of Consequence. I'm sorry and I miss him. Madrid, from which came the Lozoya, has gained a lot, and does not deserve
this general neglect when it is not really necessary to take water or visit the inheritance or estate
own, or when one does not have enough money to travel through the world as a nabob.

Here, in summer, whatever they want those who think like us, no more heat Biarritz or San Sebastian,
here in summer, there are quite a few diversions, more or less innocent,
and not misused life.lies to
record the actions of their Ancestors, and their own, in Odes and Songs. Their poems, therefore,
may be considered, as History, sometimes, probably, in some degree, embellished. Out of Hatred
to the Church of Rome, they seem, occasionly, to have written something in the name of Taliossyn,
&c. But the Voyage of Prince Madog had nothing to do with Religion.]

