"Because I thought I would plead the lie to get at the truth.  Forgive me for having made use
of this old trick to put you on the right track. It wasn't such a bad idea, for I succeeded
in finding out what you took so much pains to hide from me."

"To hide from you?  Yes, I did wish to hide it from you.  Wasn't that right, since I was convinced
that Reine loved you?"  exclaimed Julien, in an almost stifled voice, as if the avowal were
choking him.  "I have always thought it idle to parade one's feelings before those who do not
care about them."

"You were wrong," returned poor Claudet, sighing deeply, "if you had spoken for yourself, I
have an idea you would have been better received, and you would have spared me a terrible heart-breaking."

He said it with such profound sadness that Julien, notwithstanding the absorbing nature of
his own thoughts, was quite overcome, and almost on the point of confessing, openly, the intensity
of his feeling toward Reine Vincart.  But, accustomed as he was, by long habit, to concentrate
every emotion within himself, he found it impossible to become, all at once, communicative;
he felt an invincible and almost maidenly bashfulness at the idea of revealing the secret sentiments
of his soul, and contented himself with saying, in a low voice:

"Do you not love her any more, then?"

"I? oh, yes, indeed!  But to be refused by the only girl I ever wished to marry takes all the
spirit out of me.  I am so discouraged, I feel like leaving the country.  If I were to go,
it would perhaps be doing you a service, and that would comfort me a little.  You have treated
me as a friend, and that is a thing one doesn't forget.  I have not the means to pay you back
for your kindness, but I think I should be less sorry to go if my departure would leave the
way more free for you to return to La Thuiliere."

"You surely would not leave on my account?"  exclaimed Julien, in alarm.

"Not solely on your account, rest assured.  If Reine had loved me, it never would have entered
my head to make such a sacrifice for you, but she will not have me.  I am good for nothing
here.  I am only in your way."

"But that is a wild idea!  Where would you go?"

"Oh!  there would be no difficulty about that.  One plan would be to go as a soldier.  Why
not?  I am hardy, a good walker, a good shot, can stand fatigue; I have everything needed for
military life.  It is an occupation that I should like, and I could earn my epaulets as well
as my neighbor.  So that perhaps, Monsieur de Buxieres, matters might in that way be arranged
to suit everybody."

"Claudet!" stammered Julien, his voice thick with sobs, "you are a better man than I!  Yes;
you are a better man than I!"

And, for the first time, yielding to an imperious longing for expansion, he sprang toward the
grand chasserot, clasped him in his arms, and embraced him fraternally.

"I will not let you expatriate yourself on my account," he continued; "do not act rashly, I
entreat!"

"Don't worry," replied Claudet, laconically, "if I so decide, it will not be without deliberation."

In fact, during the whole of the ensuing week, he debated in his mind this question of going
away.  Each day his position at Vivey seemed more unbearable.  Without informing any one, he
had been to Langres and consulted an officer of his acquaintance on the subject of the formalities
required previous to enrolment.

At last, one morning he resolved to go over to the military division and sign his engagement.
But he was not willing to consummate this sacrifice without seeing Reine Vincart for the last
time.  He was nursing, down in the bottom of his heart, a vague hope, which, frail and slender
as the filament of a plant, was yet strong enough to keep him on his native soil.  Instead
of taking the path to Vivey, he made a turn in the direction of La Thuiliere, and soon reached
the open elevation whence the roofs of the farm-buildings and the turrets of the chateau could
both alike be seen.  There he faltered, with a piteous sinking of the heart. Only a few steps
between himself and the house, yet he hesitated about entering; not that he feared a want of
welcome, but because he dreaded lest the reawakening of his tenderness should cause him to
lose a portion of the courage he should need to enable him to leave.  He leaned against the
trunk of an old pear-tree and surveyed the forest site on which the farm was built.

The landscape retained its usual placidity.  In the distance, over the waste lands, the shepherd
Tringuesse was following his flock of sheep, which occasionally scattered over the fields,
and then, under the dog's harassing watchfulness, reformed in a compact group, previous to
descending the narrow hill-slope.  One thing struck Claudet: the pastures and the woods bore
exactly the same aspect, presented the same play of light and shade as on that afternoon of
the preceding year, when he had met Reine in the Ronces woods, a few days before the arrival
of Julien. The same bright yet tender tint reddened the crab-apple and the wild- cherry; the
tomtits and the robins chirped as before, among the bushes, and, as in the previous year, one
heard the sound of the beechnuts and acorns dropping on the rocky paths.  Autumn went through
her tranquil rites and familiar operations, always with the same punctual regularity; and all
this would go on just the same when Claudet was no longer there. There would only be one lad
the less in the village streets, one hunter failing to answer the call when they were surrounding
the woods of Charbonniere.  This dim perception of how small a space man occupies on the earth,
and of the ease with which he is forgotten, aided Claudet unconsciously in his effort to be
resigned, and he determined to enter the house.  As he opened the gate of the courtyard, he
found himself face to face with Reine, who was coming out.

The young girl immediately supposed he had come to make a last assault, in the hope of inducing
her to yield to his wishes.  She feared a renewal of the painful scene which had closed their
last interview, and her first impulse was to put herself on her guard.  Her countenance darkened,
and she fixed a cold, questioning gaze upon Claudet, as if to keep him at a distance.  But,
when she noted the sadness of her young relative's expression, she was seized with pity.  Making
an effort, however, to disguise her emotion, she pretended to accost him with the calm and
cordial friendship of former times.

"Why, good-morning, Claudet," said she, "you come just in time. A quarter of an hour later
you would not have found me.  Will you come in and rest a moment?"

"Thanks, Reine," said he, "I will not hinder you in your work.  But I wanted to say, I am sorry
I got angry the other day; you were right, we must not leave each other with ill-feeling, and,
as I am going away for a long time, I desire first to take your hand in friendship."

"You are going away?"

"Yes; I am going now to Langres to enroll myself as a soldier.  And true it is, one knows when
one goes away, but it is hard to know when one will come back.  That is why I wanted to say
good-by to you, and make peace, so as not to go away with too great a load on my heart."

All Reine's coldness melted away.  This young fellow, who was leaving his country on her account,
was the companion of her infancy, more than that, her nearest relative.  Her throat swelled,
her eyes filled with tears. She turned away her head, that he might not perceive her emotion,
and opened the kitchen-door.

"Come in, Claudet," said she, "we shall be more comfortable in the dining-room.  We can talk
there, and you will have some refreshment before you go, will you not?"

He obeyed, and followed her into the house.  She went herself into the cellar, to seek a bottle
of old wine, brought two glasses, and filled them with a trembling hand.

"Shall you remain long in the service?"  asked she.

"I shall engage for seven years."

"It is a hard life that you are choosing."

"What am I to do?"  replied he, "I could not stay here doing nothing."

Reine went in and out of the room in a bewildered fashion.  Claudet, too much excited to perceive
that the young girl's impassiveness was only on the surface, said to himself: "It is all over;
she accepts my departure as an event perfectly natural; she treats me as she would Theotime,
the coal-dealer, or the tax-collector Boucheseiche.  A glass of wine, two or three unimportant
questions, and then, good-by-a pleasant journey, and take care of yourself!"

Then he made a show of taking an airy, insouciant tone.

"Oh, well!"  he exclaimed, "I've always been drawn toward that kind of life.  A musket will
be a little heavier than a gun, that's all; then I shall see different countries, and that
will change my ideas."  He tried to appear facetious, poking around the kitchen, and teasing
the magpie, which was following his footsteps with inquisitive anxiety.  Finally, he went up
to the old man Vincart, who was lying stretched out in his picture-lined niche.  He took the
flabby hand of the paralytic old man, pressed it gently and endeavored to get up a little conversation
with him, but he had it all to himself, the invalid staring at him all the time with uneasy,
wide-open eyes.  Returning to Reine, he lifted his glass.

"To your health, Reine!"  said he, with forced gayety, "next time we clink glasses together,
I shall be an experienced soldier--you'll see!"

But, when he put the glass to his lips, several big tears fell in, and he had to swallow them
with his wine.

"Well!" he sighed, turning away while he passed the back of his hand across his eyes, "it must
be time to go."

She accompanied him to the threshold.

"Adieu, Reine!"

"Adieu!"  she murmured, faintly.

She stretched out both hands, overcome with pity and remorse.  He perceived her emotion, and
thinking that she perhaps still loved him a little, and repented having rejected him, threw
his arms impetuously around her.  He pressed her against his bosom, and imprinted kisses, wet
with tears, upon her cheek.  He could not leave her, and redoubled his caresses with passionate
ardor, with the ecstasy of a lover who suddenly meets with a burst of tenderness on the part
of the woman he has tenderly loved, and whom he expects never to fold again in his arms.  He
completely lost his self-control.  His embrace became so ardent that Reine, alarmed at the
sudden outburst, was overcome with shame and terror, notwithstanding the thought that the man,
who was clasping her in his arms with such passion, was her own brother.

She tore herself away from him and pushed him violently back.

"Adieu!"  she cried, retreating to the kitchen, of which she hastily shut the door.

Claudet stood one moment, dumfounded, before the door so pitilessly shut in his face, then,
falling suddenly from his happy state of illusion to the dead level of reality, departed precipitately
down the road.

When he turned to give a parting glance, the farm buildings were no longer visible, and the
waste lands of the forest border, gray, stony, and barren, stretched their mute expanse before him.

"No!"  exclaimed he, between his set teeth, "she never loved me.  She thinks only of the other
man!  I have nothing more to do but go away and never return!"

CHAPTER IX

LOVE HEALS THE BROKEN HEART

In arriving at Langres, Claudet enrolled in the seventeenth battalion of light infantry.  Five
days later, paying no attention to the lamentations of Manette, he left Vivey, going, by way
of Lyon, to the camp at Lathonay, where his battalion was stationed.  Julien was thus left
alone at the chateau to recover as best he might from the dazed feeling caused by the startling
events of the last few weeks.  After Claudet's departure, he felt an uneasy sensation of discomfort,
and as if he himself had lessened in value.  He had never before realized how little space
he occupied in his own dwelling, and how much living heat Claudet had infused into the house
which was now so cold and empty.  He felt poor and diminished in spirit, and was ashamed of
being so useless to himself and to others.  He had before him a prospect of new duties, which
frightened him.  The management of the district, which Claudet had undertaken for him, would
now fall entirely on his shoulders, and just at the time of the timber sales and the renewal
of the fences.  Besides all this, he had Manette on his conscience, thinking he ought to try
to soften her grief at her son's unexpected departure.  The ancient housekeeper was like Rachel,
she refused to be comforted, and her temper was not improved by her recent trials.  She filled
the air with lamentations, and seemed to consider Julien responsible for her troubles. The
latter treated her with wonderful patience and indulgence, and exhausted his ingenuity to make
her time pass more pleasantly.  This was the first real effort he had made to subdue his dislikes
and his passive tendencies, and it had the good effect of preparing him, by degrees, to face
more serious trials, and to take the initiative in matters of greater importance.  He discovered
that the energy he expended in conquering a first difficulty gave him more ability to conquer
the second, and from that result he decided that the will is like a muscle, which shrivels
in inaction and is developed by exercise; and he made up his mind to attack courageously the
work before him, although it had formerly appeared beyond his capabilities.

He now rose always at daybreak.  Gaitered like a huntsman, and escorted by Montagnard, who
had taken a great liking to him, he would proceed to the forest, visit the cuttings, hire fresh
workmen, familiarize himself with the woodsmen, interest himself in their labors, their joys
and their sorrows; then, when evening came, he was quite astonished to find himself less weary,
less isolated, and eating with considerable appetite the supper prepared for him by Manette.
Since he had been traversing the forest, not as a stranger or a person of leisure, but with
the predetermination to accomplish some useful work, he had learned to appreciate its beauties.
The charms of nature and the living creatures around no longer inspired him with the defiant
scorn which he had imbibed from his early solitary life and his priestly education; he now
viewed them with pleasure and interest.  In proportion, as his sympathies expanded and his
mind became more virile, the exterior world presented a more attractive appearance to him.

