 He took his and left.
In one compartment of the Stock Exchange were three hundred francs in gold and in the other a few
small coins. The theft was so clear to deny such a bold way that Hippolytus entertain no doubts about
the morality of his neighbors anymore. He stayed on the Stairs climbed down with difficulty,
his legs were shaking, dizziness seized him, cold Sweat stood on his forehead, and he felt
unable to go and the violent to bear the excitement that the collapse of all his hopes had
provoked in him.

He remembered now a set of observations, which were apparently minor, but encouraged the terrible
suspicion that had taken him and his eyes emerge in the character and lives of two women opened
the door.

So they had waited pending completion of the picture and was handed over before they robbed him,
the stock market !?...

The theft appeared to be even uglier, as he turned out to be a calculated. The Painter remembered
for his grief, that Adelaide had been two or three evenings girlish curiosity, the artful
mesh of the worn silk purse considers I: but probably only to convince himself, mentioned how
much money in the bag was. The seemingly innocent jokes that they made it their object, probably
only to spot the moment when the sum would be large enough to theft worth to be .-- "The old
admiral may have his good reasons not to marry Adelaide, and the Baroness will therefore seek
me ...." He wanted to make one suspect interrupted, however, and finished his thought, since
the same also with a very proper consideration has been disproved. "If the baroness," he thought,
namely, "me with their Daughter had wanted to marry, one would have robbed me ...." So as not quite torn
from his illusions to be tried, his love, already so deeply rooted was found in a random to
any justification. "My Life on the Earth can be dropped, "he thought," it can perhaps be its
still in my chair. I they might have in my distraction in the bag embroidered ...." And he searched
hastily all his pockets, but found nowhere cursed Exchange. His cruel memorize it only confirmed
the sad truth. He clearly saw its stock market lie on the table, no doubt more in the theft, apologized
but Adelaide, thinking, that accident, would not allowed to judge too quickly, without a doubt
that any secrets this apparently infamous actions are based. She wanted him not to mind that such
a noble and proud face can be a lie. Nevertheless, it now appeared the poor Apartment to be
completely denuded of the poetry of love, which embellishes everything he saw she is now a dirty,
pampered, and looked at it as a representation of a life without nobility, without noble actions,
because our feelings are to some extent the things embossed, the around us.

The next morning he got up to have without sleep.

The pain of his heart, this serious moral disease, had made tremendous progress with him. A dreaming
losing luck to renounce an entire future, this is a suffering, bitter than any other, which
is caused by the sinking of a comrade happiness as completely the same also be liked. The thoughts,
which then leaves suddenly our minds, the same a sea without shore, where our love can indeed get
a second floating perish but have finally and drown. This is a terrible death are not the feelings
of the most brilliant part of our lives? arise from this partial death in certain delicate or
strong constitutions, the great devastation caused by the disenchantment by disappointed hopes,
and passions are produced.

So it was Hippolytus.

In the early morning he went out and walked in the cool shade of the Tuileries, while he sank
into his mind and forgot everything in the world. A coincidence had nothing unusual, let him
take one of his most intimate friends, who had been on the College and the Art School in his
comrade, with whom he trusted had lived, as we are accustomed to living with a brother. "What
ails you?" asked Daniel Vallier, a young sculptor who had recently obtained the first prize and
soon to Italy should travel. "I am very unhappy ..." Hippolytus answered seriously.

"Only a matter of the heart can you worry so much because of money, fame and prestige You do
not lack. "gradual relaxation in an intimate conversation, and the painter admitted his love.
As told Hippolytus of the Rue de Suresnes and a young girl who in a fourth floor, lived as Daniel
called out with unusual cheerfulness: "Stop the is the young girl who I see every morning in
the Assomption and I do the yard. But, my dear, we all know! Her mother is a Baroness! Do you
think because of baronesses, the fourth floor live? ... Whoa! ... You're a good boy, even in the golden
age alive! ... We see the old mother every day in this avenue, but she has a face and an attitude,
guess that make everything .... What! You're on the way your knitting bag holds, not even recognized
for what it is? "

The two friends were walking a long time, and several young men who either Daniel or Hippolytus
knew, joined them. The sculptor told them the adventure the painter because he thought it was
very important. Now, observations were made, ridicule were innocent, and with all the cheerfulness
which is peculiar to artists, possibly the best. Hippolytus suffered terribly under it. He was
ashamed when the secret of his heart as he carelessly handled, his love saw torn to shreds
when he heard that a young had an unknown girl, whose life seemed to him as modest, the ruthless
Reviews submitted liked the same be true or false. From a feeling of He asked earnestly appeal
for from each one prove his allegations, but gave this occasion only to new mockery.

"But, my dear, you've seen the shawl of the baroness?" asked one.

"Have you seen the little girl when she goes to the Assumption of the morning?" another asked.

"The
mother, among other virtues also has some gray dress, which I see
as a Type of look.

"

"Listen, Hippolytus ..." said an engraver, "come here at four clock
and watch a low the progress of mother and daughter .... Then if you
still have doubts ... well, then is nothing in life from Dir ... You
would be able to marry the daughter of your Tuersteherin.

"

Hippolytus was taken by the widerstreitendsten feelings and left his friends. Adelaide appeared
to him about all the charges raised, and he felt in his inmost heart a certain Remorse that
he had doubted the purity of such a beautiful and simple young girl. He returned to his shop, went
to the door before Adelaide's apartment over and felt a pain inside, in respect of which no
man fooling himself. He loved Fraeulein Rouville of passionate and prayed they even now, still,
regardless of theft its stock market. His love was like that of the Chevaliers Desgrieux, his
own beloved on the cart, which runs the lost women in the prison, and yet admired for pure thought.
"Why should not my love of the purest women of all beings be! ... Why should they leave the accident and
the truck without it a friendly Hand to hand this task !?..." pleased him, for love knows how
to use everything, and Nothing attracts a young man more than the prospect of a young girl's
role to be able to play a good angel. There is something romantic in this company sensitive souls
so much like it. There is sacrifice in its most noble and graceful Form, it is as much greatness
of soul is to be aware that you love enough, to himself as to love still goes out with others the
love and die!

Hippolytus went to his workshop and looked at his paintings, without working on it; He saw the forms
only by the tears that came into his eyes, held continuously his brush in his hand and approached
the screen, they touched not. The night what surprised him in his reverie, and he hurried down the
stairs, met the old Admiral, gave him a scowl, while he welcomed him, and hurried away. It was
his Intention was to engage with his neighbors, but the sight of Adelaide Goenner let his heart
and give him solidify his decision. He wondered for the hundredth Times what the rich old man who
had five thousand livres pension, so irresistible those in the fourth floor, draw where he lost
every evening between ten and twenty francs, and he guessed its purpose.

In the following days was dedicated to his work, Hippolytus with all diligence to carry this
and by the distraction of his imagination to another subject to his passion . ONTO He succeeded
his intention to half the work comfort him, but could the memory of so many happy hours he had
spent next to Adelaide, not banish. When he left at one of the next evening his workshop,
he found the door to the apartment the two women opened halfway.

A female figure standing in the sill of the window, and he could not work temporarily, without
being seen from Adelaide. He welcomed them and gave her a cold indifferent Glance, but then joined
by his grief on the young girl and felt a intense emotion, as he considered all the bitterness
that his eyes and his cold in a loving heart had to produce.

A delight, as they both enjoyed by so profound neglect by such deep contempt To crown, that was indeed
a terrible end!

Perhaps they had recovered the stock market, perhaps Adelaide was that night her Friend waiting
for you! This idea was so simple and of course, aroused by Hippolytus a New remorse, and he
wondered if the proofs of Zartgefuehl and devotion, which he the girl had given to whether
the lovely and loving conversations, which delights him had, at least not a question, a justification
deserved. He was ashamed, a have resisted all week long to the wishes of his heart, looked
almost as the guilty party, and went the same evening to Madame de Rouville. His whole Suspect,
all his evil thoughts vanished at the sight of the young girl, the appeared pale and haggard.

"What
ails you?" he asked, after he had welcomed the baroness.

Adelaide replied not, but sent only a schwermutsvollen, sad and discouraged, look at him, Woe
to him did.

"They worked without doubt much?" asked the old lady, "You have changed a lot, and we are certainly
the reason why you now so constant in their workshops . Include The picture painted for us
has probably delayed some work that for your reputation of importance. "

Hippolytus was pleased to find such a nice excuse to be rude. "Yes," he replied, "I've been
very busy, but I have also suffered much ...." These Words, raised his head and looked at Adelaide
Hippolytus, her eyes expressed only concern out, but no more reproach.

"Have you thought we would be so indifferent to your luck or your accident?" asked the old lady.

"I
was wrong!"

Hippolytus said, "but yet it is suffering that can not dare tell even then not if the friendship
is already older than ours. "

"Sincerity and strength of friendship allowed not measured by length of time be. There are old
friends, one of which is not even a tear for the misfortunes the
other has, "said the baroness.

"But what ails you?" Hippolytus is turned to Adelaide.

"Oh, nothing," replied the mother. "She has a few nights in a female work been sitting and not
listen to me, although I told her that on one day more less or not relevant. "

Hippolytus was lost again in strange thoughts. If he trains this noble and peaceful looked, he had
his suspicions about the loss of his blush and any stock exchange attributed to an unknown
accident.

This evening was a delicious for him, and perhaps also for Adelaide. There are secrets the youthful
heart so easily guess, the young girl anyway guessed the thoughts the painter. The painter
however, divined the thoughts of the girl, returned a loving and friendly to acquire his lover back
and looked for a tacit forgiveness.

Adelaide other hand, enjoyed such perfect, so sweet delights that
it seemed as though they have the same bought not too expensive by
the accident that had injured her love so cruel.

This so sincere harmony of their hearts, this magical mutual understanding was still disturbed
by a comment of Baroness de Rouville.

"Let us make a little game," she said to Hippolytus.

These words aroused fears of the young man all over again. He blushed, while He looked at Adelaide's
mother, but noticed the expression on her face only a undeceptive Goodness. He sat down at the
piano, and Adelaide was in communion with him Play by pretending that he does not understand the
picket, and therefore require a partner. Madame de Rouville and her daughter gave during the
game signal agreement, Hippolytus, the troubled all the more so because he was the winning
part, have been modified but the two lovers paying the baroness, and the painter lifted his hand
up to make money from his to take pocket. Then he suddenly saw a purse in front of him that
Adelaide had lain down there, without being noticed, but she's old Stock Exchange held in his hand
and took money from it, to pay for her mother. Hippolytus felt flocked to him all the blood
to the heart and he was close to losing consciousness. The new exchange, given to him instead
of the old was contained his money and she was shot through with gold beads, and everything
was the same one Proof of Adelaide's good taste. This was a delightful thanks to the young girl.
It was impossible to give a more delicate way to recognize that the gift of the artist be rewarded
only by a pledge of tenderness can. As Hippolytus in excess of his Happiness of his eyes to Adelaide
and taught the baroness, shivering with joy, he saw both and satisfied that they had succeeded
in its fraud so beautiful.

Now he found himself petty, contemptible, absurd and penalty would be like, but were a few tears
in the Eyes, his heart forced him irresistibly to rise up to take Adelaide in his arms, to pressure
on his chest, robbing her a kiss and then with the sincerity of a
artist to tell the Baroness: "I ask my wife to.

Adelaide accused the painter half angry look, and Madame de Rouville was looking in their Consternation
for an answer, as this scene is interrupted by a sudden ringing was. The old admiral appeared,
followed by his shadow and Ms. Schinner.

Hippolytus' mother had guessed the reason for the grief that her son
her to hide in vain sought, and some of her friends inquire about
the young girl who he loved, recovered.

When she moved into equitable concerns by the slanders about Adelaide was, she had told the same
ones the old emigrants, who said in his anger, that he "would cut the envy of sheep's ears."
In his wife he betrayed Zorneseifer Schinner then also that he intentionally
lost the game because of the pride of the Baroness he does not allow
them to support them in other ways.

As a woman, was welcomed by Ms Schinner Rouville, they looked to the
rear-admiral, Adelaide and Hippolytus, saying with inexpressible kindness:
"Now we are tonight in the family circle. "

MARITAL PEACE

Our narrative
is set in the time when Napoleon's reign the highest transient had
reached the summit of its glory and power. Besides, he seemed still so spry as a
five-quark and to enjoy a vigorous health. His features indicated the same on the set and open character
of the old immigrants and the free and easy Manners, cheerful and carefree on the passions of
those musketeers in the front Jahrbuechern of gallantry were so famous. His movements, his behavior indicated
that he the claims of his youth had not yet given up and determined to either their Liebeshaendeln
royalism to relieve, nor of his religion and his inclination.

He was followed by a quite fantastic shape, lift the one in the foreground of the painting
would have to in order to describe properly, but only plays a minor role. Imagine a dry and
thin person, as well dressed as the former, but only to a certain extent as the reflected light,
or if you prefer, appearing as his shadow. The Rock, the when that was new, was published in
this worn, the powder in your hair less white, the less shiny golden lilies, weakness of mind,
brought life to the ultimate closer. In short, he carried on in admirable fashion Rivarol witty remark
regarding Champcenetz: "He is my moon!" He was just double of the other, but pale and poor,
and between the two was different as between the first and the last withdrawal a lithograph.
This mute old man was a mystery for the painter and was also such, for he did not speak and
no one spoke of him. Was he a friend, a poor relation, a man who stayed with the old dudes,
like an old Gesellschaftsfraeulein with a lady? Was it something between a dog and parrot friend?
He had the fortune or even the life of his benefactor saved? Was he the trim of a new captain Toby?
In other Places, as the Baroness of curiosity always excited he Rouville without satisfying ever.

The
man, who was obtained from the ruins of two best days of politely to the baroness Rouville to
kissed her hand and sat down at her side, and the other welcomed
the same and then sat down next to his model.

Adelaide based its elbows on the backrest of the chair, the old gentleman had taken, and imitated
that, without knowing it, the Position after that Guerin has been on his famous painting of
Dido's sister. The confidentiality of the nobleman was a brother, and he took certain liberties
out against Adelaide, which seemed to displease the young girl for the moment.

"Well, you probably pout with me?" he asked.

Then he threw during his discussions at Hippolyte Schinner those sly
and subtle Page views that are genuine diplomatic eyes, and their
expression is always a wise concern says.

"You see here our neighbors," said the old lady, pointing to Hippolyte
Schinner.

"The Lord is a well-known painter whose name you despite your indifference to the Arts must be
known. "

The gentleman saw the wickedness of his old friend that she concealed the names, and welcomed
the young man

"Certainly!" he said, "I've heard much talk about your paintings .... The talent has some nice
privileges, sir, "he continued, while he Hippolytus red tape looked, "and this award, we have to
acquire through our blood and long service time gain you been to the youth .... But the types
of fame are sisters. "The gentleman took it to his cross of St. Louis.

Hippolytus

stammered a few words of thanks and then fell silent again, as he contented himself with to
consider with an ever-growing enthusiasm the finest virgin head, delighted him. He soon immersed
himself totally in this view, forgetting the deep Misery that was indicated by the flat, because
for him it was Adelaide's face from a bright atmosphere surrounded. He responded briefly to
questions that were addressed to him and fortunately, he heard, because it is a peculiar ability
of our mind, that it can double in a sense at times.
 "Oh God, why did you
not let me teach in painting, "said Miss Vervelle to the parents.

"Virginie," cried the mother, "there are certain things that may not
know a young girl.

Are you married only once - good! But until then give you satisfied. "

This first meeting was enough for the venerable artists with the family quite Vervelle to make
friends. In two days should come again Vervelles. Father and mother Virginia could go ahead
on the way home a little, but overheard despite the distance the following words that aroused
their curiosity: "A man decorated thirty-seven ... Years ... is an artist with a orders, the money
managed by our notary ... as would it be if we hesitate to Cardot rate? Ha! Madame de Fougeres would
not be amiss! ... He sees not look like an evil man .... You think better, a wholesaler? But
with a merchant You can, if he has not already been withdrawn from the business, never know how
it Your daughter will fare.

A frugal artist, however ... besides, we love art ... ...." In short,

While the family Vervelle exchanged their impressions of the painter, was formed and Fougeres turn his
verdict regarding the three. But the studio was too narrow and quiet to do so. He went to the
street and looked at the red-haired women among the passers-by, said he pulled the strangest
conclusions: Gold is the most beautiful of the metals, and the yellow colors indicate the gold,
the Romans loved women with golden red hair and he felt like a Roman ... and the like. What
man takes care of, after two years of marriage even the hair color
of his wife?

Beauty passes, but there is ugliness. Money is half the way to happiness.

When the painter went to bed at night, he found Virginie Vervelle already delightful.

When the three Vervelles entered the second session the studio, the painter received them with
an amiable smile. The rogue was now his beard special attention dedicated, and his linen was
bluetenweiss; gracefully he had arranged his hair and he wore a very flattering trousers and
red slippers computer. His greeting was also of the family answered with a winning smile. Virginia,
which was as red as her hair, lowered his eyes and turned his head
as they immerse themselves in the studies.

Pierre was Grassou delighted with this small decoration shops, he found, and fortunately neither
gracefully Virginie her father nor her mother similar.

During the session a lively conversation ensued between the family and the Painter who was so bold
as to find the father Vervelle witty. The Vervelles took their Flattering
words, the heart of the artist in the storm.

He gave one of his sketches Virginie and the mother a study.

"Freely?" they asked. Pierre Grassou had to laugh. "You may give away your pictures do not so,
"said Vervelle," that's as good as cash ". -

At the third meeting told Papa Vervelle of a beautiful

Gemaeldegalerie,
which he had risen at his country home in Ville d'Avray. It contains
Works by Rubens, Gerard Dou, Mieris, Terborch, Rembrandt, Paul Potter,
a Titian, and others. "Mr Vervelle a folly done," said Mrs. Vervelle
very important, "he has I for one hundred thousand francs ."--" pictures
I just art lovers, "said former Flaschenhaendler. It seemed to me that the glare in the north was fiercer now than when I had first
seen it.

Now, after my mother had put Withelm to bed, I told her how I had found him; and thereat she
wept a little, as I could see in the firelight. Fougeres but saw nothing of the ballet, heard
nothing of the music, he created images that he painted. Even during the presentation adopted he from
his friends and went home. He began to sketch out the light of the lamp, invented thirty pictures
full of reminiscences and considered himself a genius.

On the very next day he bought paints and canvas in all sizes. Bread and cheese set it on the
table, make up the pitcher with fresh water and piled firewood. Then went He set to work. He
had some models, and Magus lent him some clothes. After two Months of complete seclusion of the
Breton had completed four paintings. Again asked Schinner for his opinion and he also invited
Josef Bridau to participate. The two painters designated the images as true copies for the Dutch landscapes
and interiors by Metsu, while the fourth is a wayward copy of Rembrandt's
Anatomy is.

"Nothing but imitations," said Schinner; "Fougeres will bring it difficult
to do something to give our own.

"

"You should do something else than painting pictures," said Bridau.

"What?" asked Fougeres.

"Throw yourself on the literature," said Bridau.

Fougeres hung his head like a sheep in the rain. Nevertheless, he had a few technical Give hints
and worked more on his paintings before he brought it to Elias. This paid him twenty-five francs
for the play. Fougeres deserved nothing of lost but nothing, for he lived a very frugal.

Again he was now on his walks to follow the fate of his paintings. Since He had a strange hallucination:
his so clearly and precisely painted images of the durability of the iron sheet and shiny as
porcelain had seemed like a gray Fog covered; they were like old paintings. Elias was out,
and so could Fougeres no explanation of this phenomenon men seek. He thought there must be
an illusion. He returned home and began again to paint old pictures.

After seven years of tireless, zealous work Fougeres brought it so far that it bearable could
compose pictures and execute. He made some mediocrity, like many other Painter. Elias bought
and sold all these images of the poor Bretons, who annually laboriously hundred louis, earned
while he spent barely zwoelfhundert francs. When Exhibition of 1829 were Leon de Lora, Schinner and
Bridau, the great influence were and were at the head of the artistic movement, so moved by the tenacity
and the poverty of their former comrades that one of his paintings to the great salon of the
Exhibition was allowed. This painting shows a young convict, his hair shorn were. He sat between
a priest and a young and an old woman who cried, while a writer a stamped document as read.
Stood untouched on a dirty Food tables, between the Gitterstaeben a high window was the first
daylight start. A something in this picture, citizens had to be thrilled - and shuddered. Unmistakably Fougeres
by Gerard Dou known masterpiece had been affected and he had the group in the painting "The
wassersuechtige woman" turned to the window, rather than from the
front to show and replaced the dying by the condemned, it was the
same pale face, the same look, the same cry to God. Instead of the
Flemish doctor, he was dressed in black Writer with his cold office
air was painted, and the girl in the picture Gerard Dou an aged woman
begotten. Fraeulein Leseigneur
opened the door. When she saw the young painter, she welcomed him, turned But with that skill
and that Parisians by the presence of mind, pride, love hung around to close the glass door a
shed, by Hippolytus to dry Linen could have seen, as well as an old belts bed, a coal basin, coal,
iron and all of that device in small economies is always at hand. Curtains of muslin, which were placed
before the glass panes of the door, now prevented any insight into this "Capernaum," as it is
now in the language of Paris, those types of economic and pantries calls, this one was lit by
small windows, which led to a neighboring farm.
 If such a Beast
has even been unpacked, they can not give up until she has swallowed the bite. What race! "

"I'll
you a few lines to give to my notary public ...."

"What, you have a notary?"

"Yes!"

"Well, then I know at least why do you paint the cheeks with Rosentoenen having a Perfumer would
inspire. "

Grassou it could not prevent that he blushed. Virginia made a face.

"Why do you think you are not in the nature?" said the great painter.

"The young lady is red - well, then, is this so bad? In art, everything is beautiful. Tu vermilion
on your Range and revive the cheek with it.

Brush comforted the little brown dot on back and Give it a little more greasy. Will you have more
spirit than nature? "

"Here ...." Fougeres said, "You can represent me so long as, while I write."

Vervelle pushed his Kugelkoerper quietly up to the table and bent the ear of the artist down. "This
shower head is yet spoil everything!" whispered the anxious merchant.

"If he painted the picture of your Virginie," replied indignantly Fougeres, "it would a thousand
times better than my work. "

This information Vervelle cautiously departed again and went back to the page his wife, who
was just speechless about this berserk and only Alarmed in the event that he labored on the portrait
of her daughter.

"So - you think of this information," said Bridau when he traded the pallet against the letter.
"I thank you further! Now I can not go back to Chateau d'Arthey where I I execute a dining room,
Leon de Lora makes the door panels. True masterpieces! You should visit us once, "He went without
a greeting," he had enough of the sight Virginie . Get

"Who is this man?" Madame Vervelle asked .-- "A great artist," said
Grassou.

After a minute of silence asked Virginie: "Are you sure that he My image has spoiled nothing?
He scared me! "

"He has improved it," said Grassou .-- "If this is a great artist," said Vervelle Madame, "I
have to say that I prefer the great artists of their kind ."--" But Mama, Mr. Grassou is still a much greater
painter, he paints me in full figure, "babbled Virginia. These good people, enticed by the allure
of the geniuses on the head pushed .--
It was in late summer, when Vervelle up courage and took the painting
to the next Sunday invited her to his country house. "I know so,"
he said modestly, "that we citizens of a people Artists can not offer
much more appealing. The artists need inspiration, pageantry and an
environment full of clever people. With me, you will find nothing
but a good wine; I hope also that my Gemaeldegalerie helps to dispel
the boredom, that an artist like you could attack with such simple
people. "

It delighted the poor Grassou Pierre, who was so used to
little praise to to see so celebrated. This kind man, this barely
mediocre artist, this golden Heart, this loyal soul, that miserable
artist and brave boy, whom the king orders Legion of Honor graced,
threw himself in the dress to the last beautiful days of the year
in Ville d'Avray to enjoy. He drove modest in buses. The castle of
the former Flaschenhaendlers, based on the height of Ville d'Avray,
the most beautiful point of the village, surrounded by a five Acre
park, was caught grass Sous highest admiration. Virginie married name
was, therefore, one day the owner of this beautiful villa! And then that did not seem likely, for he had taken us
for thralls. Then he remarked at last have an old lady, the marquees of the Ancien Regime resembled
that held a lamp and gave the young lady's advice.

"Sir," replied the young girl on one of the questions directed to them, the painter, while his
thoughts still on the case were confused, "my mother and me, we heard the dull case of a body in your
room and believed it to distinguish a sigh; the awful silence that followed prompted us to
rush up to you. We found the key in the door and allowed us to enter what we motionless lying
on the ground saw. For a moment we feared for her life. In vain will fan the young coquette of the most graceful way cooling, in vain she
smiled at the young people of whom she was welcomed, and turned List of all women to hide their
excitement, the old widow, one of the smartest Duchesses at the court of Louis XV., Seemed
to look through the secrets behind the Trains of the Countess hid. The old lady seemed almost
imperceptible movements of the eyes of those star perceiving, which betray the flashes of the heart.
 While Hippolytus with Ms. Leseigneur said,
because he also gave her this name, it checks the drawing room, but in a sophisticated and
furtive manner. The stove, the fireplace was full of ashes, and the Eisenstaeben were two
Feuerbraende that barely smoldered.

