Christophe marked it. This it was that he saw in Olivier's eyes. Olivier had an intuitive perception
of the souls of men, and a mind of a wide, subtle curiosity that was open to everything, denied
nothing, hated nothing, and contemplated the world and things with generous sympathy: that
freshness of outlook, which is a priceless gift, granting the power to taste with a heart that
is always new the eternal renewal and re-birth. In that inward universe, wherein he knew himself
to be free, vast, sovereign, he could forget his physical weakness and agony. There was even
a certain pleasure in watching from a great height, with ironic pity, that poor suffering body
which seemed always so near the point of death. So there was no danger of his clinging to his
life, and only the more passionately did he hug life itself. Olivier translated into the region
of love and mind all the forces which in action he had abdicated. He had not enough vital sap
to live by his own substance. He was as ivy: it was needful for him to cling. He was never
so rich as when he gave himself. His was a womanish soul with its eternal need of loving and
being loved. He was born for Christophe, and Christophe for him. Such are the aristocratic
and charming friends who are the escorts of the great artists and seem to have come to flower
in the lives of their mighty souls: Beltraffio, the friend of Leonardo: Cavalliere of Michael
Angelo: the gentle Umbrians, the comrades of young Raphael: Aert van Gelder, who remained faithful
to Rembrandt in his poor old age. They have not the greatness of the masters: but it is as
though all the purity and nobility of the masters in their friends were raised to a yet higher
spiritual power. They are the ideal companions for men of genius.

Their friendship was profitable to both of them. Love lends wings to the soul. The presence
of the beloved friend gives all its worth to life: a man lives for his friend and for his sake
defends his soul's integrity against the wearing force of time.

Each enriched the other's nature. Olivier had serenity of mind and a sickly body. Christophe
had mighty strength and a stormy soul. They were in some sort like a blind man and a cripple.
Now that they were together they felt sound and strong. Living in the shadow of Christophe
Olivier recovered his joy in the light: Christophe transmitted to him something of his abounding
vitality, his physical and moral robustness, which, even in sorrow, even in injustice, even
in hate, inclined to optimism. He took much more than he gave, in obedience to the law of genius,
which gives in vain, but in love always takes more than it gives, quia nominor leo, because
it is genius, and genius half consists in the instinctive absorption of all that is great in
its surroundings and making it greater still. The vulgar saying has it that riches go to the
rich. Strength goes to the strong. Christophe fed on Olivier's ideas: he impregnated himself
with his intellectual calmness and mental detachment, his lofty outlook, his silent understanding
and mastery of things. But when they were transplanted into him, the richer soil, the virtues
of his friend grew with a new and other energy.

They both marveled at the things they discovered in each other. There were so many things to
share! Each brought vast treasures of which till then he had never been conscious: the moral
treasure of his nation: Olivier the wide culture and the psychological genius of France: Christophe
the innate music of Germany and his intuitive knowledge of nature.

