Charles T. Torrey, an able young Congregational clergyman, died May
     9, 1846, in the state's prison of Maryland, for the offence of
     aiding slaves to escape from bondage.  His funeral in Boston,
     attended by thousands, was a most impressive occasion.  The
     following is an extract from an article written for the Essex
     Transcript:--

Some seven years ago, we saw Charles T. Torrey for the first time.  His wife was leaning on
his arm,--young, loving, and beautiful; the heart that saw them blessed them.  Since that time,
we have known him as a most energetic and zealous advocate of the anti-slavery cause.  He had
fine talents, improved by learning and observation, a clear, intensely active intellect, and
a heart full of sympathy and genial humanity.  It was with strange and bitter feelings that
we bent over his coffin and looked upon his still face.  The pity which we had felt for him
in his long sufferings gave place to indignation against his murderers.  Hateful beyond the
power of expression seemed the tyranny which had murdered him with the slow torture of the
dungeon.  May God forgive us, if for the moment we felt like grasping His dread prerogative
of vengeance.  As we passed out of the hall, a friend grasped our hand hard, his eye flashing
through its tears, with a stern reflection of our own emotions, while he whispered through
his pressed lips: "It is enough to turn every anti- slavery heart into steel."  Our blood boiled;
we longed to see the wicked apologists of slavery--the blasphemous defenders of it in Church
and State--led up to the coffin of our murdered brother, and there made to feel that their
hands had aided in riveting the chain upon those still limbs, and in shutting out from those
cold lips the free breath of heaven.

A long procession followed his remains to their resting-place at Mount Auburn.  A monument
to his memory will be raised in that cemetery, in the midst of the green beauty of the scenery
which he loved in life, and side by side with the honored dead of Massachusetts.  Thither let
the friends of humanity go to gather fresh strength from the memory of the martyr. There let
the slaveholder stand, and as he reads the record of the enduring marble commune with his own
heart, and feel that sorrow which worketh repentance.

The young, the beautiful, the brave!--he is safe now from the malice of his enemies.  Nothing
can harm him more.  His work for the poor and helpless was well and nobly done.  In the wild
woods of Canada, around many a happy fireside and holy family altar, his name is on the lips
of God's poor.  He put his soul in their souls' stead; he gave his life for those who had no
claim on his love save that of human brotherhood.  How poor, how pitiful and paltry, seem our
labors!  How small and mean our trials and sacrifices!  May the spirit of the dead be with
us, and infuse into our hearts something of his own deep sympathy, his hatred of injustice,
his strong faith and heroic endurance.  May that spirit be gladdened in its present sphere
by the increased zeal and faithfulness of the friends he has left behind.

EDWARD EVERETT.

A letter to Robert C. Waterston.

Amesbury, 27th 1st Month, 1865.

I acknowledge through thee the invitation of the standing committee of the Massachusetts Historical
Society to be present at a special meeting of the Society for the purpose of paying a tribute
to the memory of our late illustrious associate, Edward Everett.

It is a matter of deep regret to me that the state of my health will not permit me to be with
you on an occasion of so much interest.

It is most fitting that the members of the Historical Society of Massachusetts should add their
tribute to those which have been already offered by all sects, parties, and associations to
the name and fame of their late associate.  He was himself a maker of history, and part and
parcel of all the noble charities and humanizing influences of his State and time.

When the grave closed over him who added new lustre to the old and honored name of Quincy,
all eyes instinctively turned to Edward Everett as the last of that venerated class of patriotic
civilians who, outliving all dissent and jealousy and party prejudice, held their reputation
by the secure tenure of the universal appreciation of its worth as a common treasure of the
republic.  It is not for me to pronounce his eulogy. Others, better qualified by their intimate
acquaintance with him, have done and will do justice to his learning, eloquence, varied culture,
and social virtues.  My secluded country life has afforded me few opportunities of personal
intercourse with him, while my pronounced radicalism on the great question which has divided
popular feeling rendered our political paths widely divergent.  Both of us early saw the danger
which threatened the country.  In the language of the prophet, we "saw the sword coining upon
the land," but while he believed in the possibility of averting it by concession and compromise,
I, on the contrary, as firmly believed that such a course could only strengthen and confirm
what I regarded as a gigantic conspiracy against the rights and liberties, the union and the
life, of the nation.

Recent events have certainly not tended to change this belief on my part; but in looking over
the past, while I see little or nothing to retract in the matter of opinion, I am saddened
by the reflection that through the very intensity of my convictions I may have done injustice
to the motives of those with whom I differed.  As respects Edward Everett, it seems to me that
only within the last four years I have truly known him.

In that brief period, crowded as it is with a whole life-work of consecration to the union,
freedom, and glory of his country, he not only commanded respect and reverence, but concentrated
upon himself in a most remarkable degree the love of all loyal and generous hearts.  We have
seen, in these years of trial, very great sacrifices offered upon the altar of patriotism,--wealth,
ease, home, love, life itself.  But Edward Everett did more than this: he laid on that altar
not only his time, talents, and culture, but his pride of opinion, his long-cherished views
of policy, his personal and political predilections and prejudices, his constitutional fastidiousness
of conservatism, and the carefully elaborated symmetry of his public reputation.  With a rare
and noble magnanimity, he met, without hesitation, the demand of the great occasion.  Breaking
away from all the besetments of custom and association, he forgot the things that are behind,
and, with an eye single to present duty, pressed forward towards the mark of the high calling
of Divine Providence in the events of our time.  All honor to him!  If we mourn that he is
now beyond the reach of our poor human praise, let us reverently trust that he has received
that higher plaudit: "Well done, thou good and faithful servant!"

When I last met him, as my colleague in the Electoral College of Massachusetts, his look of
health and vigor seemed to promise us many years of his wisdom and usefulness.  On greeting
him I felt impelled to express my admiration and grateful appreciation of his patriotic labors;
and I shall never forget how readily and gracefully he turned attention from himself to the
great cause in which we had a common interest, and expressed his thankfulness that he had still
a country to serve.

