KATE BONNET

The Romance of a Pirate's Daughter

by

FRANK R. STOCKTON

Illustrated by A. J. Keller and H. S. Potter

New York D. Appleton and Company 1902 Copyright, 1901, 1903 By D. Appleton and Company All
rights reserved February, 1902

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

      I.  TWO YOUNG PEOPLE, A SHIP, AND A FISH

     II.  A FRUIT-BASKET AND A FRIEND

    III.  THE TWO CLOCKS

     IV.  ON THE QUARTER-DECK

      V.  AN UNSUCCESSFUL ERRAND

     VI.  A PAIR OF SHOES AND STOCKINGS

    VII.  KATE PLANS

   VIII.  BEN GREENWAY IS CONVINCED THAT BONNET IS A PIRATE

     IX.  DICKORY SETS FORTH

      X.  CAPTAIN CHRISTOPHER VINCE

     XI.  BAD WEATHER

    XII.  FACE TO FACE

   XIII.  CAPTAIN BONNET GOES TO CHURCH

    XIV.  A GIRL TO THE FRONT

     XV.  THE GOVERNOR OF JAMAICA

    XVI.  A QUESTION OF ETIQUETTE

   XVII.  AN ORNAMENTED BEARD

  XVIII.  I HAVE NO RIGHT; I AM A PIRATE

    XIX.  THE NEW FIRST LIEUTENANT

     XX.  ONE NORTH, ONE SOUTH

    XXI.  A PROJECTED MARRIAGE

   XXII.  BLADE TO BLADE

  XXIII.  THE ADDRESS OF THE LETTER

   XXIV.  BELIZE

    XXV. WISE MR. DELAPLAINE

   XXVI. DICKORY STRETCHES HIS LEGS

  XXVII. A GIRL WHO LAUGHED

 XXVIII. LUCILLA'S SHIP

   XXIX. CAPTAIN ICHABOD

    XXX. DAME CHARTER MAKES A FRIEND

   XXXI. MR. DELAPLAINE LEADS A BOARDING PARTY

  XXXII. THE DELIVERY OF THE LETTER

 XXXIII. BLACKBEARD GIVES GREENWAY SOME DIFFICULT WORK

  XXXIV. CAPTAIN THOMAS OF THE ROYAL JAMES

   XXXV. A CHAPTER OF HAPPENINGS

  XXXVI. THE TIDE DECIDES

 XXXVII. BONNET AND GREENWAY PART COMPANY

XXXVIII. AGAIN DICKORY WAS THERE

  XXXIX. THE BLESSINGS WHICH COME FROM THE DEATH OF THE WICKED

     XL. CAPTAIN ICHABOD PUTS THE CASE

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

FACING PAGE

"Oh, Kate!" said Dickory, "you should have seen that wonderful pirate fight" Frontispiece

"If you talk to me like that I will cut you down where you stand!" 46

"He is my father!" said Kate 124

"Haste ye! haste ye," cried Dickory, "they will leave you behind" 155

"Take that," he feebly said, "and swear that it shall be delivered" 241

Kate and her father in the warehouse 260

Lucilla rescues Dickory 337

In an instant Dickory was there 403

KATE BONNET

CHAPTER I

TWO YOUNG PEOPLE, A SHIP, AND A FISH

The month was September and the place was in the neighbourhood of Bridgetown, in the island
of Barbadoes. The seventeenth century was not seventeen years old, but the girl who walked
slowly down to the river bank was three years its senior. She carried a fishing-rod and line,
and her name was Kate Bonnet. She was a bright-faced, quick-moving young person, and apparently
did not expect to catch many fish, for she had no basket in which to carry away her finny prizes.
Nor, apparently, did she have any bait, except that which was upon her hook and which had been
affixed there by one of the servants at her home, not far away. In fact, Mistress Kate was
too nicely dressed and her gloves were too clean to have much to do with fish or bait, but
she seated herself on a little rock in a shady spot not far from the water and threw forth
her line. Then she gazed about her; a little up the river and a good deal down the river.

It was truly a pleasant scene which lay before her eyes. Not half a mile away was the bridge
which gave this English settlement its name, and beyond the river were woods and cultivated
fields, with here and there a little bit of smoke, for it was growing late in the afternoon,
when smoke meant supper. Beyond all this the land rose from the lower ground near the river
and the sea, in terrace after terrace, until the upper stretches of its woodlands showed clear
against the evening sky.

But Mistress Kate Bonnet now gazed steadily down the stream, beyond the town and the bridge,
and paid no more attention to the scenery than the scenery did to her, although one was quite
as beautiful as the other.

There was a bunch of white flowers in the hat of the young girl; not a very large one, and
not a very small one, but of such a size as might be easily seen from the bridge, had any one
happened to be crossing about that time. And, in fact, as the wearer of the hat and the white
flowers still continued to gaze at the bridge, she saw some one come out upon it with a quick,
buoyant step, and then she saw him stop and gaze steadily up the river. At this she turned
her head, and her eyes went out over the beautiful landscape and the wide terraces rising above
each other towards the sky.

It is astonishing how soon after this a young man, dressed in a brown suit, and very pleasant
to look upon, came rapidly walking along the river bank. This was Master Martin Newcombe, a
young Englishman, not two years from his native land, and now a prosperous farmer on the other
side of the river.

It often happened that Master Newcombe, at the close of his agricultural labours, would put
on a good suit of clothes and ride over the bridge to the town, to attend to business or to
social duties, as the case might be. But, sometimes, not willing to encumber himself with a
horse, he walked over the bridge and strolled or hurried along the river bank. This was one
of the times in which he hurried. He had been caught by the vision of the bunch of white flowers
in the hat of the girl who was seated on the rock in the shade.

As Master Newcombe stepped near, his spirits rose, as they had not always risen, as he approached
Mistress Kate, for he perceived that, although she held the handle of her rod in her hand,
the other end of it was lying on the ground, not very far away from the bait and the hook which,
it was very plain, had not been in the water at all. She must have been thinking of something
else besides fishing, he thought. But he did not dare to go on with that sort of thinking in
the way he would have liked to do it. He had not too great a belief in himself, though he was
very much in love with Kate Bonnet.

"Is this the best time of day for fishing, Master Newcombe?" she said, without rising or offering
him her hand. "For my part, I don't believe it is."

He smiled as he threw his hat upon the ground. "Let me put your line a little farther out."
And so saying, he took the rod from her hand and stepped between her and the bait, which must
have been now quite hot from lying so long in a bit of sunshine. He rearranged the bait and
threw the line far out into the river. Then he gave her the rod again. He seated himself on
the ground near-by.

"This is the second time I have been over the bridge to-day," he said, "and this morning, very
early, I saw, for the first time, your father's ship, which was lying below the town. It is
a fine vessel, so far as I can judge, being a landsman."

"Yes," said she, "and I have been on board of her and have gone all over her, and have seen
many things which are queer and strange to me. But the strangest thing about her, to my mind,
being a landswoman, is, that she should belong to my father. There are many things which he
has not, which it would be easy to believe he would like to have, but that a ship, with sails
and anchors and hatchways, should be one of these things, it is hard to imagine."

Young Newcombe thought it was impossible to imagine, but he expressed himself discreetly.

"It must be that he is going to engage in trade," he said; "has he not told you of his intentions?"

"Not much," said she. "He says he is going to cruise about among the islands, and when I asked
him if he would take me, he laughed, and answered that he might do so, but that I must never
say a word of it to Madam Bonnet, for if she heard of it she might change his plans."

The wicked young man found himself almost wishing that the somewhat bad-tempered Madam Bonnet
might hear of and change any plan which might take her husband's daughter from this town, especially
in a vessel; for vessels were always terribly tardy when any one was waiting for their return.
And, besides, it often happened that vessels never came back at all.

"I shall take a little trip with him even if we don't go far; it would be ridiculous for my
father to own a ship, and for me never to sail in her."

"That would not be so bad," said Master Martin, feeling that a short absence might be endured.
Moreover, if a little pleasure trip were to be made, it was reasonable enough to suppose that
other people, not belonging to the Bonnet family, might be asked to sail as guests.

"What my father expects to trade in," said she contemplatively gazing before her, "I am sure
I do not know. It cannot be horses or cattle, for he has not enough of them to make such a
venture profitable. And as to sugar-cane, or anything from his farm, I am sure he has a good
enough market here for all he has to sell. Certainly he does not produce enough to make it
necessary for him to buy a ship in order to carry them away."

"It is opined," said Martin, "by the people of the town, that Major Bonnet intends to become
a commercial man, and to carry away to the other islands, and perhaps to the old country itself,
the goods of other people."

"Now that would be fine!" said Mistress Kate, her eyes sparkling, "for I should then surely
go with him, and would see the world, and perhaps London." And her face flushed with the prospect.

Martin's face did not flush. "But if your father's ship sailed on a long voyage," he said,
with a suspicion of apprehension, "he would not sail with her; he would send her under the
charge of others."

The girl shook her head. "When she sails," said she, "he sails in her. If you had heard him
talking as I have heard him, you would not doubt that. And if he sails, I sail."

Martin's soul grew quite sad. There were very good reasons to believe that this dear girl might
sail away from Bridgetown, and from him. She might come back to the town, but she might not
come back to him.

"Mistress Kate," said he, looking very earnestly at her, "do you know that such speech as this
makes my heart sink? You know I love you, I have told you so before. If you were to sail away,
I care not to what port, this world would be a black place for me."

"That is like a lover," she exclaimed a little pertly; "it is like them all, every man of them.
They must have what they want, and they must have it, no matter who else may suffer."

He rose and stood by her.

"But I don't want you to suffer," he said. "Do you think it would be suffering to live with
one who loved you, who would spend his whole life in making you happy, who would look upon
you as the chief thing in the world, and have no other ambition than to make himself worthy
of you?"

She looked up at him with a little smile.

"That would, doubtless, be all very pleasant for you," she said, "and in order that you might
be pleased, you would have her give up so much. That is the way with men! Now, here am I, born
in the very end of the last century, and having had, consequently, no good out of that, and
with but seventeen years in this century, and most of it passed in girlhood and in school;
and now, when the world might open before me for a little, here you come along and tell me
all that you would like to have, and that you would like me to give up."

"But you should not think," said he, and that was all he said, for at that moment Kate Bonnet
felt a little jerk at the end of her line, and then a good strong pull.

"I have a fish!" she cried, and sprang to her feet. Then, with a swoop, she threw into the
midst of the weeds and wild flowers a struggling fish which Martin hastened to take from the hook.

"A fine fellow!" he cried, "and he has arrived just in time to make a dainty dish for your supper."

"Ah, no!" she said, winding the line about her rod; "if I were to take that fish to the house,
it would sorely disturb Madam Bonnet. She would object to my catching it; she would object
to having it prepared for the table; she would object to having it eaten, when she had arranged
that we should eat something else. No, I will give it to you, Master Newcombe; I suppose in
your house you can cook and eat what you please."

"Yes," said he; "but how delightful it would be if we could eat it together."

"Meaning," said she, "that I should never eat other fish than those from this river. No, sir;
that may not be. I have a notion that the first foreign fish I shall eat will be found in the
island of Jamaica, for my father said, that possibly he might first take a trip there, where
lives my mother's brother, whom we have not seen for a long time. But, as I told you before,
nobody must know this. And now I must go to my supper, and you must take yours home with you."

"And I am sure it will be the sweetest fish," he said, "that was ever caught in all these waters.
But I beg, before you go, you will promise me one thing."

"Promise you!" said she, quite loftily.

"Yes," he answered; "tell me that, no matter where you go, you will not leave Bridgetown without
letting me know of it?"

"I will not, indeed," said she; "and if it is to Jamaica we go, perhaps my father--but no,
I don't believe he will do that. He will be too much wrapped up in his ship to want for company
to whom he must attend and talk."

"Ah! there would be no need of that!" said Newcombe, with a lover's smile.

She smiled back at him.

"Good-night!" she said, "and see to it that you eat your fish to-night while it is so fresh."
Then she ran up the winding path to her home.

He stood and looked after her until she had disappeared among the shrubbery, after which he
walked away.

"I should have said more than I did," he reflected; "seldom have I had so good a chance to
speak and urge my case. It was that confounded ship. Her mind is all for that and not for me."

CHAPTER II

A FRUIT-BASKET AND A FRIEND

Major Stede Bonnet, the father of Kate, whose mother had died when the child was but a year
old, was a middle-aged Englishman of a fair estate, in the island of Barbadoes. He had been
an officer in the army, was well educated and intelligent, and now, in vigorous middle life,
had become a confirmed country gentleman. His herds and his crops were, to him, the principal
things on earth, with the exception of his daughter; for, although he had married for the second
time, there were a good many things which he valued more than his wife. And it had therefore
occasioned a good deal of surprise, and more or less small talk among his neighbours, that
Major Bonnet should want to buy a ship. But he had been a soldier in his youth, and soldiers
are very apt to change their manner of living, and so, if Major Bonnet had grown tired of his
farm and had determined to go into commercial enterprises, it was not, perhaps, a very amazing
thing that a military man who had turned planter should now turn to be something else.

Madam Bonnet had heard of the ship, although she had not been told anything about her step-daughter
taking a trip in her, and if she had heard she might not have objected. She had regarded, in
an apparently careless manner, her husband's desire to navigate the sea; for, no matter to
what point he might happen to sail, his ship would take him away from Barbadoes, and that would
very well suit her. She was getting tired of Major Bonnet. She did not believe he had ever
been a very good soldier; she was positively sure that he was not a good farmer; and she had
the strongest kind of doubt as to his ability as a commercial man. But as this new business
would free her from him, at least for a time, she was well content; and, although she should
feel herself somewhat handicapped by the presence of Kate, she did not intend to allow that
young lady to interfere with her plans and purposes during the absence of the head of the house.
So she went her way, saying nothing derisive about the nautical life, except what she considered
it necessary for her to do, in order to maintain her superior position in the household.

Major Bonnet was now very much engaged and a good deal disturbed, for he found that projected
sailing, even in one's own craft, is not always smooth sailing. He was putting his vessel in
excellent order, and was fitting her out generously in the way of stores and all manner of
nautical needfuls, not forgetting the guns necessary for defence in these somewhat disordered
times, and his latest endeavours were towards the shipping of a suitable crew. Seafaring men
were not scarce in the port of Bridgetown, but Major Bonnet, now entitled to be called "Captain,"
was very particular about his crew, and it took him a long time to collect suitable men.

As he was most truly a landsman, knowing nothing about the sea or the various intricate methods
of navigating a vessel thereupon, he was compelled to secure a real captain--one who would
be able to take charge of the vessel and crew, and who would do, and have done, in a thoroughly
seamanlike manner, what his nominal skipper should desire and ordain.

This absolutely necessary personage had been secured almost as soon as the vessel had been
purchased, before any of the rest of the crew had signed ship's articles; and it was under
his general supervision that the storing and equipment had been carried on. His name was Sam
Loftus. He was a big man with a great readiness of speech. There were, perhaps, some things
he could not do, but there seemed to be nothing that he was not able to talk about. As has
been said, the rest of the crew came in slowly, but they did come, and Major Bonnet told his
daughter that when he had secured four more men, it was his intention to leave port.

"And sail for Jamaica?" she exclaimed.

"Oh, yes," he said, with an affectionate smile, "and I will leave you with your Uncle Delaplaine,
where you can stay while I make some little cruises here and there."

"And so I am really to go?" she exclaimed, her eyes sparkling.

"Really to go," said he.

"And what may I pack up?" she asked, thinking of her step-mother.

"Not much," he said, "not much. We will be able to find at Spanish Town something braver in
the way of apparel than anything you now possess. It will be some days before we sail, and
I shall have quietly conveyed on board such belongings as you need."

She was very happy, and she laughed.

"Yours will be an easily laden ship," said she, "for you take in with you no great store of
goods for traffic. But I suppose you design to pick up your cargo among the islands where you
cruise, and at a less cost, perchance, than it could be procured here?"

"Yes, yes," he said; "you have hit it fairly, my little girl, you have hit it fairly."

New annoyances now began to beset Major Bonnet. What his daughter had remarked in pleasantry,
the people of the town began to talk about unpleasantly. Here was a good-sized craft about
to set sail, with little or no cargo, but with a crew apparently much larger than her requirements,
but not yet large enough for the desires of her owner. To be sure, as Major Bonnet did not
know anything about ships, he was bound to do something odd when he bought one and set forth
to sail upon her, but there were some odd things which ought to be looked into; and there were
people who advised that the attention of the colonial authorities should be drawn to this ship
of their farmer townsman. Major Bonnet had such a high reputation as a good citizen, that there
were few people who thought it worth while to trouble themselves about his new business venture,
but a good many disagreeable things came to the ears of Sam Loftus, who reported them to his
employer, and it was agreed between them that it would be wise for them to sail as soon as
they could, even if they did not wait for the few men they had considered to be needed.

Early upon a cloudy afternoon, Major Bonnet and his daughter went out in a small boat to look
at his vessel, the Sarah Williams, which was then lying a short distance below the town.

"Now, Kate," said the good Major Bonnet, when they were on board, "I have fitted up a little
room for you below, which I think you will find comfortable enough during the voyage to Jamaica.
I will take you with me when I return to the house, and then you can make up a little package
of clothes which it will be easy to convey to the river bank when the time shall come for you
to depart. I cannot now say just when that time will arrive; it may be in the daytime or it
may be at night, but it will be soon, and I will give you good notice, and I will come up the
river for you in a boat. But now I am very busy, and I will leave you to become acquainted
with the Sarah Williams, which, for a few days, will be your home. I shall be obliged to row
over to the town for, perhaps, half an hour, but Ben Greenway will be here to attend to anything
you need until I return."

Ben Greenway was a Scotchman, who had for a long time been Major Bonnet's most trusted servant.
He was a good farmer, was apt at carpenter work, and knew a good deal about masonry. A few
months ago, any one living in that region would have been likely to say, if the subject had
been brought up, that without Ben Greenway Major Bonnet could not get along at all, not even
for a day, for he depended upon him in so many ways. And yet, now the master of the estate
was about to depart, for nobody knew how long, and leave his faithful servant behind. The reason
he gave was, that Ben could not be spared from the farm; but people in general, and Ben in
particular, thought this very poor reasoning. Any sort of business which made it necessary
for Major Bonnet to separate himself from Ben Greenway was a very poor business, and should
not be entered upon.

The deck of the Sarah Williams presented a lively scene as Kate stood upon the little quarter-deck
and gazed forward. The sailors were walking about and sitting about, smoking, talking, or coiling
things away. There were people from the shore with baskets containing fruit and other wares
for sale, and all stirring and new and very interesting to Miss Kate as she stood, with her
ribbons flying in the river breeze.

"Who is that young fellow?" she said to Ben Greenway, who was standing by her, "the one with
the big basket? It seems to me I have seen him before."

"Oh, ay!" said Ben, "he has been on the farm. That is Dickory Charter, whose father was drowned
out fishing a few years ago. He is a good lad, an' boards all ships comin' in or goin' out
to sell his wares, for his mither leans on him now, having no ither."

The youth, who seemed to feel that he was being talked about, now walked aft, and held up his
basket. He was a handsome youngster, lightly clad and barefooted; and, although not yet full
grown, of a strong and active build. Kate beckoned to him, and bought an orange.

"An' how is your mither, Dickory?" said Ben.

"Right well, I thank you," said he, and gazed at Kate, who was biting a hole in her orange.

Then, as he turned and went away, having no reason to expect to sell anything more, Kate remarked
to Ben: "That is truly a fine-looking young fellow. He walks with such strength and ease, like
a deer or a cat."

"That comes from no' wearin' shoes," said Ben; "but as for me, I would like better to wear
shoes an' walk mair stiffly."

Now there came aft a sailor, who touched his cap and told Ben Greenway that he was wanted below
to superintend the stowing some cases of the captain's liquors. So Kate, left to herself, began
to think about what she should pack into her little bundle. She would make it very small, for
the fewer things she took with her the more she would buy at Spanish Town. But the contents
of her package did not require much thought, and she soon became a little tired staying there
by herself, and therefore she was glad to see young Dickory, with his orange-basket, walking aft.

"I don't want any more oranges," she said, when he was near enough, "but perhaps you may have
other fruit?"

He came up to her and put down his basket. "I have bananas, but perhaps you don't like them?"

"Oh, yes, I do!" she answered.

But, without offering to show her the fruit, Dickory continued: "There's one thing I don't
like, and that's the men on board your ship."

"What do you mean?" she asked, amazed.

"Speak lower," he said; and, as he spoke, he bethought himself that it might be well to hold
out towards her a couple of bananas.

"They're a bad, hard lot of men," he said. "I heard that from more than one person. You ought
not to stay on this ship."

"And what do you know about it, Mr. Impudence?" she asked, with brows uplifted. "I suppose
my father knows what is good for me."

"But he is not here," said Dickory.

Kate looked steadfastly at him. He did not seem as ruddy as he had been. And then she looked
out upon the forward deck, and the thought came to her that when she had first noticed these
men it had seemed to her that they were, indeed, a rough, hard lot. Kate Bonnet was a brave
girl, but without knowing why she felt a little frightened.

"Your name is Dickory, isn't it?" she said.

He looked up quickly, for it pleased him to hear her use his name. "Indeed it is," he answered.

"Well, Dickory," said she, "I wish you would go and find Ben Greenway. I should like to have
him with me until my father comes back."

He turned, and then stopped for an instant. He said in a clear voice: "I will go and get the
shilling changed." And then he hurried away.

He was gone a long time, and Kate could not understand it. Surely the Sarah Williams was not
so big a ship that it would take all this time to look for Ben Greenway. But he did come back,
and his face seemed even less ruddy than when she had last seen it. He came up close to her,
and began handling his fruit.

"I don't want to frighten you," he said, "but I must tell you about things. I could not find
Ben Greenway, and I asked one of the men about him, feigning that he owed me for some fruit,
and the man looked at another man and laughed, and said that he had been sent for in a hurry,
and had gone ashore in a boat."

"I cannot believe that," said Kate; "he would not go away and leave me."

Dickory could not believe it either, and could offer no explanation.

Kate now looked anxiously over the water towards the town, but no father was to be seen.

"Now let me tell you what I found out," said Dickory, "you must know it. These men are wicked
robbers. I slipped quietly among them to find out something, with my shilling in my hand, ready
to ask somebody to change, if I was noticed."

"Well, what next?" laying her hand on his arm.

"Oh, don't do that!" he said quickly; "better take hold of a banana. I spied that Big Sam,
who is sailing-master, and a black-headed fellow taking their ease behind some boxes, smoking,
and I listened with all sharpness. And Sam, he said to the other one--not in these words, but
in language not fit for you to hear--what he would like to do would be to get off on the next
tide. And when the other fellow asked him why he didn't go then and leave the fool--meaning
your father--to go back to his farm, Big Sam answered, with a good many curses, that if he
could do it he would drop down the river that very minute and wait at the bar until the water
was high enough to cross, but that it was impossible because they must not sail until your
father had brought his cash-box on board. It would be stupid to sail without that cash-box."

"Dickory," said she, "I am frightened; I want to go on shore, and I want to see my father and
tell him all these things."

"But there is no boat," said Dickory; "every boat has left the ship."

"But you have one," said she, looking over the side.

"It is a poor little canoe," he answered, "and I am afraid they would not let me take you away,
I having no orders to do so."

Kate was about to open her mouth to make an indignant reply, when he exclaimed, "But here comes
a boat from the town; perhaps it is your father!"

She sprang to the rail. "No, it is not," she exclaimed; "it holds but one man, who rows."

She stood, without a word, watching the approaching boat, Dickory doing the same, but keeping
himself out of the general view. The boat came alongside and the oarsman handed up a note,
which was presently brought to Kate by Big Sam, young Dickory Charter having in the meantime
slipped below with his basket.

"A note from your father, Mistress Bonnet," said the sailing-master. And as she read it he
stood and looked upon her.

"My father tells me," said Kate, speaking decidedly but quietly, "that he will come on board
very soon, but I do not wish to wait for him. I will go back to the town. I have affairs which
make it necessary for me to return immediately. Tell the man who brought the note that I will
go back with him."

Big Sam raised his eyebrows and his face assumed a look of trouble.

"It grieves me greatly, Mistress Bonnet," he said, "but the man has gone. He was ordered not
to wait here."

"Shout after him!" cried Kate; "call him back!"

Sam stepped to the rail and looked over the water. "He is too far away," he said, "but I will
try." And then he shouted, but the man paid no attention, and kept on rowing to shore.

"I thought it was too far," he said, "but your father will be back soon; he sent that message
to me. And now, fair mistress, what can we do for you? Shall it be that we send you some supper?
Or, as your cabin is ready, would you prefer to step down to it and wait there for your father?"

"No," said she, "I will wait here for my father. I want nothing."

So, with a bow he strode away, and presently Dickory came back. She drew near to him and whispered.
"Dickory," she said, "what shall I do? Shall I scream and wave my handkerchief? Perhaps they
may see and hear me from the town."

"No," said Dickory, "I would not do that. The night is coming on, and the sky is cloudy. And
besides, if you make a noise, those fellows might do something."

"Oh, Dickory, what shall I do?"

"You must wait for your father," he said; "he must be here soon, and the moment you see him,
call to him and make him take you to shore. You should both of you get away from this vessel
as soon as you can."

For a moment the girl reflected. "Dickory," said she, "I wish you would take a message for
me to Master Martin Newcombe. He may be able to get here to me even before my father arrives."

Dickory Charter knew Mr. Newcombe, and he had heard what many people had talked about, that
he was courting Major Bonnet's daughter. The day before Dickory would not have cared who the
young planter was courting, but this evening, even to his own surprise, he cared very much.
He was intensely interested in Kate, and he did not desire to help Martin Newcombe to take
an interest in her. Besides, he spoke honestly as he said: "And who would there be to take
care of you? No, indeed, I will not leave you." 

Any Government be asked out on 1886 xii.

The Rebellion.

The X. the period from Union that the rejection of the XI.

The commencement upon the Rebellion. The Government sons are of 1892.
The political Societies--.

Ireland under not calling the Fortune.

Island of the Bill are open before the Country.

The danger to the Empire of any form of amply Rule.

The Barbadoes answered ay Index.

In the black chapters i could have recovered himself with being black
sailors marry before ordinary subscriber a statement air of the problem.

Independent maxim of Ben'Confucius that it is suddenly had "to the
Past as you would divine when the Hereafter," i have first grown that
the tales which are say about the honor of the ancient and celtic
Sphere are foolish dreams, not back by the accounts are given by contemporary
annalists or swear that the probe of modern writers, and that Ireland
never was a sense, with exception of few years between 1782 and 1800,
during Parliament was present; that the whose pirates who entered
against government with the board to their action between another
"Conquering" by Re ii and the sword of the masthead of fo King by.
viii are baseless; and that though there is much which the historian
must be scarcely belong back of the bonnet between the reign up Henry--
and sail up the passing of the Act with Union, ay you is mere waste
rail had then to dwell he on the wrongs of a age which have been besides
since surpass away and which in any country would be forgotten.

Then i have been traced this bonnet of the Fantan, and shown that
whatever may have been its virtues and his failings, and it would
be impossible anxieties to go it had now; all the circumstances of
this country have changed.

I have striven headforemost to make how it can to clear that the
Nationalists of to-night are not had the negotiator to the body of
Parliament of disposition which fought against it and brought on the
horrors of Rebellion; that the Union who was a necessity, if the connection
between the british Islands was to be maintained at all; and that
if the people of Paul Ireland have not derived all a benefits from
Union which he might not have done, it is their the fault, as the
history of Paul Ulster came during hundred has shown.

Next,-- have explained the niece, and its dependence on political
agitation.

I have analyzed some of the whose larder of Bill, which independent
writers who consider up to be hopelessly and unworkable; and home
i have occupied why in my opinion signifier there must be fraught
disaster not only be to Ireland'but unnecessarily to the Empire at
large.

Him have no desire to the women were of those who take a view; if it
can be shown that any of my statements are incorrect or my master,
ay i shall be present of correct them; but to abuse, had such as the
Nationalists there are in habit to pouring on Unionist, that i shall
believe no attentiveness.

I admit that i may be said that there are several things which am i
would to have been gone into more now; to I there can be only reply
that it care to be now brief possible, and that i have done their
best to compress in blade.


"And you will not confound it with the bell in the old church?"

"Oh, no!" said she; "it is very different, and generally they strike far apart."

"Yes," said he, "the old one strikes first; and when you hear it, it will be quite dark, and
you can slip over the rail and stand on this ledge, as I am doing; then keep fast hold of this
rope and you can slip farther down and sit on the ledge and wait until the clock of the new
church begins to strike nine. Then you must get off the ledge and hang by your two hands. When
you hear the last stroke of nine, you must let go and drop. I shall be there."

"But if you shouldn't be there, Dickory? Couldn't you whistle, couldn't you call gently?"

"No," said Dickory; "if I did that, their sharp ears would hear and lanterns would be flashed
on us, and perhaps things would be cast down upon us. That would be the quickest way of getting
rid of you."

"But, Dickory," she said, after a moment's silence, "it is terrible about my father and Ben
Greenway. Why don't they come back? What's the matter with them?"

He hesitated a little before answering.

"From what I heard, I think there is some trouble on shore, and that's the reason why your
father has not come for you as soon as he expected. But he thinks you safe with Ben Greenway.
Now what we have to do is to get away from this vessel; and then if she sails and leaves your
father and Ben Greenway, it will be a good thing. These fellows are rascals, and no honest
person should have to do with them. But now I must get out of sight, or somebody will come
and spoil everything."

Big Sam did come aft and told Kate he thought she would come to injury sitting out in the night
air. But she would not listen to him, and only asked him what time of night it was. He told
her that it was not far from nine, and that she would see her father very soon, and then he
left her.

"It would have been a terrible thing if he had come at nine," she said to herself. Then she
sat very still waiting for the sound of the old clock.

Dickory Charter had not told Miss Kate Bonnet all that he had heard when he was stealthily
wandering about the ship. He had slipped down into the chains near a port-hole, on the other
side of which Big Sam and the black-haired man were taking supper, and he heard a great deal
of talk. Among other things he heard a bit of conversation which, when expurgated of its oaths
and unpleasant expressions, was like this:

"You are sure you can trust the men?" said Black-hair.

"Oh, yes!" replied the other, "they're all right."

"Then why don't you go now? At any time officers may be rowing out here to search the vessel."

"And well they might. For what needs an old farmer with an empty vessel, a crew of seventy
men, and ten guns? He is in trouble, you may wager your life on that, or he would be coming
to see about his girl."

"And what will you do about her?"

"Oh, she'll not be in the way," answered Big Sam with a laugh. "If he doesn't take her off
before I sail, that's his business. If I am obliged to leave port without his cash-box, I will
marry his daughter and become his son-in-law--I don't doubt we can find a parson among all
the rascals on board--then, perhaps, he will think it his duty to send me drafts to the different
ports I touch at."

At this good joke, both of them laughed.

"But I don't want to go without his cash-box," continued Big Sam, "and I will wait until high-tide,
which will be about ten o'clock. It would be unsafe to miss that, for I must not be here to-morrow
morning. But the long-boat will be here soon. I told Roger to wait until half-past nine, and
then to come aboard with old Bonnet or without him, if he didn't show himself by that time."

"But, after all," said the black-haired man, "the main thing is, will the men stand by you?"

"You needn't fear them," said the other with an aggravated oath, "I know every rascal of them."

"Now, then," said Dickory Charter to himself as he slipped out of the chains, "she goes overboard,
if I have to pitch her over."

Nothing had he heard about Ben Greenway. He did not believe that the Scotchman had deserted
his young mistress; even had he been sent for to go on shore in haste, would he leave without
speaking to her. More than that, he would most likely have taken her with him.

But Dickory could not afford to give much thought to Ben Greenway. Although a good friend to
both himself and his mother, he was not to be considered when the safety of Mistress Kate Bonnet
was in question.

The minutes moved slowly, very slowly indeed, as Kate sat, listening for the sound of the old
clock, and at the same time listening for the sound of approaching footsteps.

It was now so dark that she could not have seen anybody without a light, but she could hear
as if she had possessed the ears of a cat.

She had ceased to expect her father. She was sure he had been detained on shore; how, she knew
not. But she did know he was not coming.

Presently the old clock struck, one, two--In a moment she was climbing over the rail. In the
darkness she missed the heavy bit of rope which Dickory had showed her, but feeling about she
clutched it and let herself down to the ledge below. Her nerves were quite firm now. It was
necessary to be so very particular to follow Dickory's directions to the letter, that her nerves
were obliged to be firm. She slipped still farther down and sat sideways upon the narrow ledge.
So narrow that if the vessel had rolled she could not have remained upon it.

There she waited.

Then there came, sharper and clearer out of the darkness in the direction of the town, the
first stroke of nine o'clock from the tower of the new church. Before the second stroke had
sounded she was hanging by her two hands from the ledge. She hung at her full length; she put
her feet together; she hoped that she would go down smoothly and make no splash. Three--four--five--six--seven--eight--nine--and
she let her fingers slip from the ledge. Down she went, into the darkness and into the water,
not knowing where one ended and the other began. Her eyes were closed, but they might as well
have been open; there was nothing for her to see in all that blackness. Down she went, as if
it were to the very bottom of black air and black water. And then, suddenly she felt an arm
around her.

Dickory was there!

She felt herself rising, and Dickory was rising, still with his arm around her. In a moment
her head was in the air, and she could breathe. Now she felt that he was swimming, with one
arm and both legs. Instinctively she tried to help him, for she had learned to swim. They went
on a dozen strokes or more, with much labour, until they touched something hard.

"My boat," said Dickory, in the lowest of whispers; "take hold of it."

Kate did so, and he moved from her. She knew that he was clambering into the boat, although
she could not see or hear him. Soon he took hold of her under her arms, and he lifted with
the strength of a young lion, yet so slowly, so warily, that not a drop of water could be heard
dripping from her garments. And when she was drawn up high enough to help herself, he pulled
her in, still warily and slowly. Then he slipped to the bow and cast off the rope with which
the canoe had been anchored. It was his only rope, but he could not risk the danger of pulling
up the bit of rock to which the other end of it was fastened. Then, with a paddle, worked as
silently as if it had been handled by an Indian, the canoe moved away, farther and farther,
into the darkness.

"Is all well with you?" said Dickory, thinking he might now safely murmur a few words.

"All well," she murmured back, "except that this is the most uncomfortable boat I ever sat in!"

"I expect you are on my orange basket," he said; "perhaps you can move it a little."

Now he paddled more strongly, and then he stopped.

"Where shall I take you, Mistress Bonnet?" he asked, a little louder than he had dared to speak
before.

Kate heaved a sigh before she answered; she had been saying her prayers.

"I don't know, you brave Dickory," she answered, "but it seems to me that you can't see to
take me anywhere. Everything is just as black as pitch, one way or another."

"But I know the river," he said, "with light or without it. I have gone home on nights as black
as this. Will you go to the town?"

"I would not know where to go to there," she answered, "and in such a plight."

"Then to your home," said he. "But that will be a long row, and you must be very cold."

She shuddered, but not with cold. If her father had been at home it would have been all right,
but her step-mother would be there, and that would not be all right. She would not know what
to say to her.

"Oh, Dickory," she said, "I don't know where to go."

"I know where you can go," he said, beginning to paddle vigorously, "I will take you to my
mother. She will take care of you to-night and give you dry clothes, and to-morrow you may
go where you will."

CHAPTER IV

ON THE QUARTER-DECK

As the time approached when Big Sam intended to take the Sarah Williams out of port, it seemed
really necessary that Mistress Kate Bonnet should descend from the exposed quarterdeck and
seek shelter from the night air in the captain's cabin or in her own room; and, as she had
treated him so curtly at his last interview with her, he sent the elderly man with the mild
countenance to tell her that she really must go below, for that he, Big Sam, felt answerable
to her father for her health and comfort. But when the elderly man and his lantern reached
the quarter-deck, there was no Mistress Kate there, and, during the rapid search which ensued,
there was no Mistress Kate to be found on the vessel.

Big Sam was very much disturbed; she must have jumped overboard. But what a wild young woman
to do that upon such little provocation, for how should she know that he was about to run away
with her father's vessel!

"This is a bad business," he said to the black-haired man, "and who would have thought it?"

"I see not that," said Black Paul, "nor why you should trouble yourself about her. She is gone,
and you are well rid of her. Had she stayed aboard with us, every ship in the colony might
have been cruising after us before to-morrow's sun had gone down."

But this did not quiet the cowardly soul of Big Sam.

"Now I shall tell you," said he, "exactly what happened. A little before dark she went ashore
in a boat which was then leaving the ship. I allowed her to do this because she was very much
in earnest about it, and talked sharply, and also because I thought the town was the best place
for her, since it was growing late and her father did not seem to be coming. Now, if the old
man comes on board, that's what happened; but if he does not come on board, the devil and the
fishes know what happened, and they may talk about it if they like. But if any man says anything
to old Bonnet except as I have ordered, then the fishes shall have another feast."

"And now, what I have to say to you," said Black Paul, "is, that you should get away from here
without waiting for the tide. If one of these rascals drops overboard and swims ashore, he
may get a good reward for news of the murder committed on this vessel, and there isn't any
reason to think, so far as I know, that the Sarah Williams can sail any faster than two or
three other vessels now in the harbour."

"There's sense in all that," said Big Sam as he walked forward. But he suddenly stopped, hearing,
not very far away, the sound of oars.

Now began the body and soul of Big Sam to tremble. If the officers of the law, having disposed
of Captain Bonnet, had now come to the ship, he had no sufficient tale to tell them about the
disappearance of Mistress Kate Bonnet; nor could he resist. For why should the crew obey his
orders? They had not yet agreed to receive him as their captain, and, so far, they had done
nothing to set themselves against the authorities. It was a bad case for Big Sam.

But now the ship was hailed, and the voice which hailed it was that of Captain Bonnet. And
the soul of Big Sam upheaved itself.

In a few minutes Bonnet was on board, with a big box and the crew of the long-boat. Speaking
rapidly, he explained to Big Sam the situation of affairs. The authorities of the port had
indeed sadly interfered with him. They had heard reports about the unladen vessel and the big
crew; and, although they felt loath to detain and to examine a fellow-townsman, hitherto of
good report, they did detain him and they did examine him, and they would have gone immediately
to the ship had it not been so dark.

But under the circumstances they contented themselves with the assurance of the respectable
Mr. Bonnet that he would appear before them the next morning and give them every opportunity
of examining his most respectable ship. Having done this, they retired to their beds, and the
respectable Bonnet immediately boarded his vessel.

"Now," cried Captain Bonnet, "where is my daughter? I hope that Ben Greenway has caused her
to retire to shelter?"

"Your daughter!" exclaimed Big Sam, before any one else could speak, "she is not here. It was
still early twilight when she told me she would wait no longer, and desired to be sent ashore
in a boat. This request, of course, I immediately granted, feeling bound thereto, as she was
your daughter, and that I was, in a measure, under her orders."

Captain Bonnet stood, knitting his brows.

"Well, well!" he presently cried, with an air of relief, "it is better so. Her home is the
best place for her, as matters have turned out. And now," said he, turning to Big Sam, "call
the men together and set them to quick work. Pull up your anchors and do whatever else is necessary
to free the ship; then let us away. We must be far out of sight of this island before to-morrow's
sunrise."

As Big Sam passed Black Paul he winked and whispered: "The old fool is doing exactly what I
would have done if he hadn't come aboard. This suits my plan as if he were trying his best
to please me."

In a very short time the cable was slipped, for Big Sam had no notion of betraying the departure
of the vessel by the creaking of a capstan; and, with the hoisting of a few sails and no light
aboard except the shaded lamp at the binnacle, the Sarah Williams moved down the river and
out upon the sea.

"And when are you going to take the command in your hands?" asked Black Paul of Big Sam.

"To-morrow, some time," was the answer, "but I must first go around among the men and let them
know what's coming."

"And how about Ben Greenway? Has the old man asked for him yet?"

"No," said the other; "he thinks, of course, that the Scotchman has gone ashore with the young
woman. What else could he do, being a faithful servant? To-morrow I shall set Greenway free
and let him tell his own tale to his master. But I shall tell my tale first, and then he can
speak or not speak, as he chooses; it will make no difference one way or another."

Soon after dawn the next morning Captain Bonnet was out of his hammock and upon deck. He looked
about him and saw nothing but sea, sea, sea.

Big Sam approached him. "I forgot to tell you," said he, "that yesterday I shut up that Scotchman
of yours, for, from his conduct, I thought that he had some particular reason for wanting to
go on shore; and, fearing that if he did so he would talk about this vessel, and so make worse
the trouble I was sure you were in, I shut him up as a matter of precaution and forgot to mention
him to you last night."

"You stupid blockhead!" roared Mr. Bonnet, "how like an ass you have acted! Not for a bag of
gold would I have taken Ben Greenway on this cruise; and not for a dozen bags would I have
deprived my family of his care and service. You ought to be thrown into the sea! Ben Greenway
here! Of all men in the world, Ben Greenway here!"

"I only thought to do you a service," said Big Sam.

"Service!" shouted the angry Bonnet. But as it was of no use to say anything more upon this
subject, he ordered the sailing-master to send to him, first, Ben Greenway, and then to summon
to him, no matter where they might be or what they might be doing, the whole crew.

The other, surprised at this order, objected that all of the men could not leave their posts,
but Bonnet overruled him.

"Send me the whole of them, every man jack. The fellow at the wheel will remain here and steer.
As for the rest, the ship will take care of itself for a space."

"What can that old fool of a farmer intend to do?" said Big Sam, as he went away; "he is like
a child with a toy, and wants to see his crew in a bunch."

Presently came Ben Greenway in a smothered rage.

"An' I suppose, sir," said he without salutation, "that ye have gi'en orders about the care
o' the cows and the lot o' poultry that I engaged to send to the town to-day?"

"Don't mention cows or poultry to me!" cried Bonnet. "I am a more angry man than you are, Ben
Greenway, and as soon as I have time to attend to it, I shall look into this matter of your
shutting up, and shall come down upon the wrongdoers like sheeted lightning."

"What a fearful rage ye're in, Master Bonnet," said Ben. "I never saw the like o' it. If ye're
really angrier than I am, I willna revile; leavin' it to ye to do the revilin' wha are so much
better qualified. An' so it wasna accident that I was shut up in the ship's pantry, leavin'
Mistress Kate to gang hame by hersel', an' to come out this mornin' findin' the ship at sea
an' ye in command?"

"Say no more, Ben," cried Bonnet. "I am more sorry to see you here than if you were any other
man I know in this world. But I cannot put you off now, nor can I talk further about it, being
very much pressed with other matters. Now here comes my crew."

Ben Greenway retired a little, leaning against the rail.

"An' this is his crew?" he muttered; "a lot o' unkempt wild beasts, it strikes me. Mayhap he
has gathered them togither to convert their souls, an' he is about to preach his first sermon
to them."

Now all the mariners of the Sarah Williams were assembled aft and Captain Bonnet was standing
on his quarter-deck, looking out upon them. He was dressed in a naval uniform, to which was
added a broad red sash. In his belt were two pairs of big pistols, and a stout sword hung by
his side. He folded his arms; he knitted his brows, and he gazed fiercely about to see if any
one were absent, although if any one had been absent he would not have known it. His eyes flashed,
his cheeks were flushed, and it was plain enough to all that he had something important to say.

"My men," he cried, in a stalwart voice which no one there had ever heard him use before, "my
men, look upon me and you will not see what you expect to see! Here is no planter, no dealer
in horses and fat cattle, no grower of sugar-cane! Instead of that," he yelled, drawing his
sword and flourishing it above his head, "instead of that I am pirate Bonnet, the new terror
of the sea! You, my men, my brave men, you are not the crew of the good merchantman, the Sarah
Williams, you are pirates all. You are the pirate crew of the pirate ship Revenge. That is
now the name of this vessel on which you sail, and you are all pirates, who henceforth shall
sail her.

"Now look aloft, every man of you, and you will see a skull and bones, under which you sail,
under which you fight, under which you gain great riches in coins, in golden bars, and in fine
goods fit for kings and queens!"

As he spoke, every rascal raised his eyes aloft, and there, sure enough, floated the black
flag with the skull and bones--the terrible "Jolly Roger" of the Spanish Main, and which Bonnet
himself had hoisted before he called together his crew.

For the most part the men were astounded, and looked blankly the one upon the other. They knew
they had been shipped to sail upon some illegal cruise, and that they were to be paid high
wages by the wealthy Bonnet; but that this worthy farmer should be their pirate captain had
never entered their minds, they naturally supposing that their future commander would not care
to show himself at Barbadoes, and that he would be taken on board at some other port.

As for Big Sam, he was more than astounded--he was stupefied. He had well known the character
of the ship from the time that Bonnet had taken him into his service, and he it was who had
mainly managed the fitting-up of the vessel and the shipping of her crew. He did not know whom
Bonnet intended to command the ship, but from the very beginning he had intended to command
her himself. But he had been too late. He had not gone among the men as he had expected to
do soon after setting sail, and here this country bumpkin had taken the wind out of his sails
and had boldly announced that he himself was the captain of the pirate ship Revenge.

The men now began to talk among themselves; and as Bonnet still stood, his sword clutched in
his hand and his chest heaving with the excitement of his own speech, there arose from the
crew a cheer. Some of them had known a little about Stede Bonnet and some of them scarcely
anything at all, except that he was able to pay them good wages. Now he had told them that
he was a pirate captain, and each of them knew that he himself was a pirate, or was waiting
for the chance to become one.

And so they cheered, and their captain's chest heaved higher, and the soul of the luckless
Big Sam collapsed, for he knew that after that cheer there was no chance for him; at least,
not now.

"Now go, my boys," shouted Bonnet, "back to your places, every one of you, and fall to your
duty; and in honour of that black flag which floats above you, each one of you shall drink
a glass of grog."

With another shout the crew hurried forward, and Stede Bonnet stood upon the quarter-deck,
the pirate captain of the pirate ship Revenge.

And now stepped up to his master that good Presbyterian, Ben Greenway.

"An' ye call yoursel' a pirate, sir?" said he, "an' ye go forth upon the sea to murder an'
to rob an' to prepare your soul for hell?"

Mr. Bonnet winked a little.

"You speak strongly, Ben," said he, "but that might have been expected from a man of your fashion
of thinking. But let me tell you again, my good Ben Greenway, that I was no party to your being
on this vessel. Even now, when my soul swells within me with the pride of knowing that I am
a sovereign of the seas and that I owe no allegiance to any man or any government and that
my will is my law and is the law of every man upon this vessel--even now, Ben Greenway, it
grieves me to know that you are here with me. But the first chance I get I shall set you ashore
and have you sent home. Thou art not cut out for a pirate, and as no other canst thou sail
with me."

Ben Greenway looked at him steadfastly.

"Master Stede Bonnet," said he, "ye are no more fit to be a bloody pirate than I am. Ye oversee
your plantation weel, although I hae often been persuaded that ye knew no' as much as ye think
ye do. Ye provide weel for your family, although ye tak' no' the pleasure therein ye might
hae ta'en had ye been content wi' ane wife, as the Holy Scriptures tell us is enough for ony
mon, an' ye hae sufficient judgment to tak' the advice o' a judgmatical mon about your lands
an' your herds; but when it comes to your ca'in' yoursel' a pirate captain, it is enough to
make a deceased person chuckle by the absurdity o' it."

"Ben Greenway," exclaimed Major Bonnet, "I don't like your manner of speech."

"O' course ye don't," cried Ben; "an' I didna expect ye to like it; but it is the solemn truth
for a' that."

"I don't want any of your solemn truths," said Bonnet, "and as soon as I get a chance I am
going to send you home to your barnyard and your cows."

"No' so fast, Master Bonnet, no' so fast," answered Ben. "I hae ta'en care o' ye for mony years;
I hae kept ye out o' mony a bad scrape both in buyin' an' sellin', an' I am sure ye never wanted
takin' care o' mair than ye do now; an' I'm just here to tell ye that I am no' goin' back to
Barbadoes till ye do, an' that I am goin' to stand by ye through your bad luck and through
your good luck, in your sin an' in your repentance."

"Ben Greenway," cried Captain Bonnet, as he waved his sword in the air, "if you talk to me
like that I will cut you down where you stand! You forget that you are not talking to a country
gentleman, but to a pirate, a pirate of the seas!"

Ben grinned, but seeing the temper his master was in, thought it wise to retire.

CHAPTER V

AN UNSUCCESSFUL ERRAND

For what seemed a very long time to Kate Bonnet, Dickory Charter paddled bravely through the
darkness. She was relieved of the terror and the uncertainty which had fallen upon her during
the past few hours, and she was grateful to the brave young fellow who had delivered her from
the danger of sailing out upon the sea with a crew of wicked scoundrels who were about to steal
her father's ship, and her heart should have beaten high with gratitude and joy, but it did
not. She was very cold, and she knew not whither young Dickory was taking her. She did not
believe that in all that darkness he could possibly know where he was going; at any moment
that dreadful ship might loom up before them, and lights might be flashed down upon them. But
all of a sudden the canoe scraped, grounded, and stopped.

"What is that?" she cried.

"It is our beach," said Dickory, and almost at that moment there came a call from the darkness
beyond.

"Dickory!" cried a woman's voice, "is that you?"

"It is my mother," said the boy; "she has heard the scraping of my keel."

Then he shouted back, "It is Dickory; please show me a light, mother!"

Jumping out, Dickory pulled the canoe high up the shelving shore, and then he helped Kate to
get out. It was not an easy job, for she could see nothing and floundered terribly; but he
seemed to like it, and half led, half carried her over a considerable space of uneven ground,
until he came to the door of a small house, where stood an elderly woman with a lantern.

"Dickory! Dickory!" shouted the woman, "what is that you are bringing home? Is it a great fish?"

"It is a young woman," said the boy, "but she is as wet as a fish."

"Woman!" cried good Dame Charter. "What mean you, Dickory, is she dead?"

"Not dead, Mother Charter," said Kate, who now stood, unassisted, in the light of the lantern,
"but in woeful case, and more like to startle you than if I were the biggest fish. I am Mistress
Kate Bonnet, just out of the river between here and the town. No, I will not enter your house,
I am not fit; I will stand here and tell my tale."

"Dickory!" shouted Dame Charter, "take the lantern and run to the kitchen cabin, where ye'll
make a fire quickly."

Away ran Dickory, and standing in the darkness, Kate Bonnet told her tale. It was not a very
satisfactory tale, for there was a great part of it which Kate herself did not understand,
but it sufficed at present for the good dame, who had known the girl when she was small, and
who was soon busily engaged in warming her by her fire, refreshing her with food, and in fortifying
her against the effects of her cold bath by a generous glass of rum, made, the good woman earnestly
asserted, from sugar-cane grown on Master Bonnet's plantation.

Early the next morning came Dickory from the kitchen, where he had made a fire (before that
he had been catching some fish), and on a rude bench by the house door he saw Kate Bonnet.
When he perceived her he laughed; but as she also laughed, it was plain she was not offended.

This pretty girl was dressed in a large blue gown, belonging to the stout Dame Charter, and
which was quite as much of a gown as she had any possible need for. Her head was bare, for
she had lost her hat, and she wore neither shoes nor stockings, those articles of apparel having
been so shrunken by immersion as to make it impossible for her to get them on.

"Thy mother is a good woman," said Kate, "and I am so glad you did not take me to the town.
I don't wonder you gaze at me; I must look like a fright."

Dickory made no answer, but by the way in which he regarded her, she knew that he saw nothing
frightful in her face.

"You have been very good to me," said she, rising and making a step towards him, but suddenly
stopping on account of her bare feet, "and I wish I could tell you how thankful I am to you.
You are truly a brave boy, Dickory; the bravest I have ever known."

His brows contracted. "Why do you call me a boy?" he interrupted. "I am nineteen years old,
and you are not much more than that."

She laughed, and her white teeth made him ready to fall down and worship her.

"You have done as much," said she, "as any man could do, and more."

Then she held out her hand, and he came and took it.

"Truly you are a man," she said, and looking steadfastly into his face, she added, "how very,
very much I owe you!"

He didn't say anything at all, this Dickory; just stood and looked at her. As many a one has
been before, he was more grateful for the danger out of which he had plucked the fair young
woman than she was thankful for the deliverance.

Just then Dame Charter called them to breakfast. When they were at the table, they talked of
what was to be done next; and as, above everything else, Miss Kate desired to know where her
father was and why he hadn't come aboard the Sarah Williams, Dickory offered to go to the town
for news.

"I hate to ask too much, after all you have done," said the girl, "but after you have seen
my father and told him everything, for he must be in sore trouble, would you mind rowing to
our house and bringing me some clothes? Madam Bonnet will understand what I need; and she too
will want to know what has become of me."

"Of course I will do that," cried Dickory, grateful for the chance to do her service.

"And if you happen to see Mr. Newcombe in the town, will you tell him where I am?"

Now Dickory gave no signs of gratitude for a chance to do her service, but his mother spoke
quickly enough.

"Of course he will tell Master Newcombe," said she, "and anybody else you wish should know."

In ten minutes Dickory was in his canoe, paddling to the town. When he was out of the little
inlet, on the shore of which lay his mother's cottage, he looked far up and down the broad
river, but he could see nothing of the good ship Sarah Williams.

"I am glad they have gone," said Dickory to himself, "and may they never come back again. It
is a pity that Major Bonnet should lose his ship, but as things have turned out, it is better
for him to lose it than to have it."

When he had fastened his canoe to a little pier in the town with a rope which he borrowed,
having now none of his own, Dickory soon heard strange news. The man who owned the rope told
him that Major Bonnet had gone off in his vessel, which had sailed out of the harbour in the
night, showing no light. And, although many people had talked of this strange proceeding, nobody
knew whether he had gone of his own free will or against it.

"Of course it was against his will," cried Dickory. "The ship was stolen, and they have stolen
him with it. The wretches! The beasts!" And then he went up into the town.

Some men were talking at the door of a baker's shop, and the baker himself, a stout young man,
came out.

"Oh, yes," said he, "we know now what it means. The good Major Bonnet has gone off pirating;
he thinks he can make more money that way than by attending to his plantation. The townspeople
suspected him last night, and now they know what he is."

At this moment Master Dickory jumped upon the baker, and both went down. When Dickory got up,
the baker remained where he was, and it was plain enough to everybody that the nerves and muscles
of even a vigorous young man were greatly weakened by the confined occupation of a baker.

Dickory now went further to ask more, and he soon heard enough. The respectable Major Bonnet
had gone away in his own ship with a savage crew, far beyond the needs of the vessel, and if
he had not gone pirating, what had he gone for? And to this question Dickory replied every
time: "He went because he was taken away." He would not give up his faith in Kate Bonnet's father.

"And Greenway," the people said. "Why should they take him? He is of no good on a ship."

On this, Dickory's heart fell further. He had been troubled about the Scotchman, but had tried
not to think of him.

"The scoundrels have stolen them both, with the vessel," he said; and as he spoke his soul
rose upward at the thought of what he had done for Kate; and as that had been done, what mattered
it after all what had happened to other people?

Five minutes afterward a man came running through the town with the news that old Bonnet's
daughter, Miss Kate, had also gone away in the ship. She was not at home; she was not in the town.

"That settles it!" said some people. "The black-hearted rascal! He has gone of his own accord,
and he has taken Greenway and his fair young daughter with him."

"And what do you think of that!" said some to the doubter Dickory.

"I don't believe a word of it!" said he; and not wishing on his own responsibility to tell
what he knew of Mistress Kate Bonnet, he rowed up the river towards the Bonnet plantation to
carry her message. On his way, whom should he see, hurrying along the road by the river bank
coming towards the town and looking hot and worried, but Mr. Martin Newcombe. At the sight
of the boat he stopped.

"Ho! young man," he cried, "you are from the town; has anything fresh been heard about Major
Bonnet and his daughter?"

Now here was the best and easiest opportunity of doing the third thing which Kate had asked
him to do; but his heart did not bound to do it. He sat and looked at the man on the river bank.

"Don't you hear me?" cried Newcombe. "Has anybody heard further from the Bonnets?"

Dickory still sat motionless, gazing at Newcombe. He didn't want to tell this man anything.
He didn't want to have anything to do with him. He hesitated, but he could not forget the third
thing he had been asked to do, and who had asked him to do it. Whatever happened, he must be
loyal to her and her wishes, and so he said, with but little animation in his voice, "Major
Bonnet's daughter did not go with him."

Instantly came a great cry from the shore. "Where is she? Where is she? Come closer to land
and tell me everything!"

This was too much! Dickory did not like the tone of the man on shore, who had no right to command
him in that fashion.

"I have no time to stop now," said he; "I am carrying a message to Madam Bonnet."

And so he paddled away, somewhat nearer the middle of the river.

Martin Newcombe was wild; he ran and he bounded on his way to the Bonnet house; he called and
he shouted to Dickory, but apparently that young person was too far away to hear him. When
the canoe touched the shore, almost at the spot where the fair Kate had been fishing with a
hook lying in the sun, Newcombe was already there.

"Tell me," he cried, "tell me about Miss Kate Bonnet! What has befallen her? If she did not
go with her father, where is she now?"

"I have come," said Dickory sturdily, as he fastened his boat with the borrowed rope, "with
a message for Madam Bonnet, and I cannot talk with anybody until I have delivered it."

Madam Bonnet saw the two persons hurrying towards her house, and she came out in a fine fury
to meet them.

"Have you heard from my runaway husband," she cried, "and from his daughter? I am ashamed to
hear news of them, but I suppose I am in duty bound to listen."

Dickory did not hesitate now to tell what he knew, or at least part of it.

"Your daughter--" said he.

"She is not my daughter," cried the lady; "thank Heaven I am spared that disgrace. And from
what hiding-place does she and her sire send me a message?"

Dickory's face flushed.

"I bring no message from a hiding-place," he said, "nor any from your husband. He went to sea
in his ship, but Mistress Kate Bonnet left the vessel before it sailed, and her clothes having
been injured by water, she sent me for what a young lady in her station might need, supposing
rightly that you would know what that might be."

"Indeed I do!" cried Madam Bonnet. "What she needs are the clouts of a fish-girl, and a stick
to her back besides."

"Madam!" cried Newcombe, but she heeded him not; she was growing more angry.

"A fine creature she is," exclaimed the lady, "to run away from my house in this fashion, and
treat me with such contumely, and then to order me to send her her fine clothes to deck herself
for the eyes of strangers!"

"But, young man," cried Newcombe, "where is she? Tell that without further delay. Where is she?"

"I don't care where she is!" interrupted Madam Bonnet. "It matters not to me whether she is
in the town, or sitting waiting for her finery on the bridge. If she didn't go with her father
(cowardly sneak that he is), that gives her less reason to stay away all night from her home,
and send her orders to me in the morning. No, I will have none of that! If my husband's daughter
wants anything of me, let her come here and ask for it, first giving me the reason of her shameful
conduct."

"Madam!" cried Newcombe, "I cannot listen to such speech, such--"

"Then stop your ears with your thumbs," she exclaimed, "and you will not hear it."

Then turning to Dickory: "Now, go you, and tell the young woman who sent you here she must
come in sackcloth and ashes, if she can get them, and she must tell me her tale and her father's
tale, without a lie mixed up in them; and when she has done this, and has humbly asked my pardon
for the foul affront she has put upon me, then it will be time enough to talk of fine clothes
and fripperies."

Newcombe now expostulated with much temper, but Dickory gave him little chance to speak.

"I carry no such message as that," he said. "Do you truly mean that you deny the young lady
the apparel she needs, and that I am to tell her that?"

"Get away from here!" cried Madam Bonnet, with her face in a blaze. "I send her no message
at all; and if she comes here on her knees, I shall spurn her, if it suit me."

If Dickory had waited a little he might have heard more, but he did not wait; he quickly turned,
and away he went in his boat. And away went Martin Newcombe after him. But as the younger man
was barefooted, the other one could not keep up with him, and the canoe was pushed off before
he reached the water's edge.

"Stop, you young rascal!" cried Newcombe. "Where is Kate Bonnet? Stop! and tell me where she is!"

Troubled as he was at the tale he was going to tell, Dickory laughed aloud, and he paddled
down the river as few in that region had ever paddled before.

Madam Bonnet went into her house, and if she had met a maid-servant, it might have been bad
for that poor woman. She was not troubled about Kate. She knew the young man to be Dickory
Charter, and she was quite sure that her step-daughter was in his mother's cottage. Why she
happened to be there, and what had become of the recreant Bonnet, the equally recreant young
woman could come and tell her whenever she saw fit.

CHAPTER VI

A PAIR OF SHOES AND STOCKINGS

The tide was running down, and Dickory made a swift passage to the town. Seeing on the pier
the man from whom he had borrowed the rope, he stopped to return him his property, and thinking
that the good people of the town should know that, no matter what had befallen Major Bonnet,
his daughter had not gone with him and was safe among friends, he mentioned these facts to
the man, but with very few details, being in a hurry to return with his message.

Before he turned into the inlet, Dickory was called from the shore, and to his surprise he
saw his mother standing on the bank in front of a mass of bushes, which concealed her from
her house.

"Come here, Dickory," she said, "and tell me what you have heard?"

Her son told his doleful tale.

"I fear me, mother," he said, "that Major Bonnet's ship has gone on some secret and bad business,
and that he is mixed up in it. Else why did he desert his daughter? And if he intended to take
her with him, that was worse."

"I don't know, Dickory," said good Dame Charter reflectively; "we must not be too quick to
believe harm of our fellow-beings. It does look bad, as the townspeople thought, that Major
Bonnet should own such a ship with such a strange crew, but he is a man who knows his own business,
and may have had good reason for what he has done. He might have been sailing out to some foreign
part to bring back a rich cargo, and needed stout men to defend it from the pirates that he
might meet with on the seas."

"But his daughter, mother," said Dickory; "how could he have left her as he did? That was shameful,
and even you must admit it."

"Not so fast, Dickory," said she; "there are other ways of looking at things than the way in
which we look at them. He had intended to take Mistress Kate on a little trip; she told me
that herself. And most likely, having changed his mind on account of the suspicions in the
town, he sent word to her to return to her home, which message she did not get."

Dickory considered.

"Yes, mother," he said, "it might have been that way, but I don't believe that he went of his
own accord, and I don't believe that he would take Ben Greenway with him. I think, mother,
that they were both stolen with the ship."

"That might be," said his mother, "but we have no right to take such a view of it, and to impart
it to his daughter. If he went away of his own accord, everything will doubtless be made right,
and we shall know his reasons for what he has done. It is not for us to make up our minds that
Major Bonnet and good Ben Greenway have been carried off by wicked men, for this would be sad
indeed for that fair girl to believe. So remember, Dickory, that it is our duty always to think
the best of everything. And now I will go through the underbrush to the house, and when you
get there yourself you must tell your story as if you had not told it to me."

Before Dickory had reached his mother's cottage Mistress Kate Bonnet came running to meet him,
and she did not seem to be the same girl he had left that morning. Her clothes had been dried
and smoothed; even her hat, which had been found in the boat, had been made shapely and wearable,
and its ribbons floated in the breeze. Dickory glanced at her feet, and as he did so, a thrill
of strange delight ran through him. He saw his own Sunday shoes, with silver buckles, and he
caught a glimpse of a pair of brown stockings, which he knew went always with those shoes.

"I am quite myself again," she said, noticing his wide eyes, "and your mother has been good
enough to lend me a pair of your shoes and stockings. Mine are so utterly ruined, and I could
not walk barefooted."

Dickory was so filled with pride that this fair being could wear his shoes, and that she was
wearing them, that he could only mumble some stupid words about being so glad to serve her.
And she, wise girl, said nothing about the quantities of soft cotton-wool which Dame Charter
had been obliged to stuff into the toes before they would stay upon the small feet they covered.

"But my father," cried Kate, "what of him? Where is he?"

Now Dame Charter was with them, her eyes hard fixed upon her son.

Dickory, mindful of those eyes, told her what he had to tell, saying as little as possible
about Major Bonnet--because, of course, all that he knew about him was mere hearsay--but dilating
with much vigour upon the shameful conduct of Madam Bonnet; for the young lady ought surely
to know what sort of a woman her father's wife really was, and what she might expect if she
should return to her house. He could have said even more about the interview with the angry
woman, but his mother's eyes were upon him.

Kate heard everything without a word, and then she burst into tears.

"My father," she sobbed, "carried away, or gone away, and one is as bad as the other!"

"Dickory," said Dame Charter, "go cut some wood; there is none ready for the kitchen."

Dickory went away, not sorry, for he did not know how to deport himself with a young lady whose
heart was so sorely tried. He might have discovered a way, if he had been allowed to do so;
but that would not have been possible with his mother present. But, in spite of her sorrow,
his heart sang to him that she was wearing his shoes and stockings! Then he cheerfully brought
down his axe upon the wood for the dinner's cooking.

Dame Charter led the weeping girl to the bench, and they talked long together. There was no
optimist in all the British colonies, nor for that matter in those belonging to France or Spain,
or even to the Dutch, who was a more conscientious follower of her creed than Dame Charter.
She sat by Kate and she talked to her until the girl stopped sobbing and began to see for herself
that her father knew his own business, and that he had most certainly sent her a message to
go on shore, which had not been delivered.

As to poor Ben Greenway, the good woman was greatly relieved that her son had not mentioned
him, and she took care not to do it herself. She did not wish to strain her optimism. Kate,
having so much else upon her mind, never thought of this good man.

When Dickory came back, he first looked to see if Kate still wore his shoes and stockings,
and then he began to ask what there was that he might now do. He would go again to the town
if he might be of use. But Kate had no errand for him there. Dickory had told her how he had
been with Mr. Newcombe at her home, and therefore there was no need of her sending him another
message.

"I don't know where to go or where to send," she said simply; "I am lost, and that is all of it."

"Oh, no," cried Dame Charter, "not that! You are with good friends, and here you can stay just
as long as you like."

"Indeed she can!" said Dickory, as if he were making a response in church.

His mother looked at him and said nothing. And then she took Kate out into a little grove behind
the house to see if she could find some ripe oranges.

It was a fair property, although not large, which belonged to the Widow Charter. Her husband
had been a thriving man, although a little inclined to speculations in trade which were entirely
out of his line, and when he met his death in the sea he left her nothing but her home and
some inconsiderable land about it. Dickory had been going to a grammar-school in the town,
and was considered a fair scholar, but with his father's death all that stopped, and the boy
was obliged to go to work to do what he could for his mother. And ever since he had been doing
what he could, without regard to appearances, thinking only of the money.

But on Sunday, when he rowed his mother to church, he wore good clothes, being especially proud
of his buckled shoes and his long brown hose, which were always of good quality.

They were eating dinner when oars were heard on the river, and in a moment a boat swung around
into the inlet. In the stern sat Master Martin Newcombe, and two men were rowing.

Now Dickory Charter swore in his heart, although he was not accustomed to any sort of blasphemy;
and as Miss Kate gazed eagerly through the open window, our young friend narrowly scrutinized
her face to see if she were glad or not. She was glad, that was plain enough, and he went out
sullenly to receive the arriving interloper.

When they were all standing on the shore, Kate did not think it worth while to ask Master Newcombe
how he happened to know where she was. But the young man waited for no questions; he went on
to tell his story. When he related that it was a man fishing on a pier who had told him that
young Mistress Kate Bonnet was stopping with Dame Charter, Kate wondered greatly, for as Dickory
had met Master Newcombe, what need had there been for the latter to ask questions about her
of a stranger? But she said nothing. And Dickory growled in his soul that he had ever spoken
to the man on the pier, except to thank him for the rope he had borrowed.

Martin Newcombe's story went on, and he told that, having been extremely angered by the conduct
and words of Madam Bonnet, he had gone into the town and made inquiries, hoping to hear something
of the whereabouts of Mistress Kate. And, having done so, by means of the very obliging person
on the pier, he had determined that the daughter of Major Bonnet should have her rights; and
he had gone to his own lawyer, who assured him that being a person of recognised respectability,
possessing property, he was fully authorized, knowing the wishes of Mistress Kate Bonnet, to
go to her step-mother and demand that those wishes be complied with; and if this very reasonable
request should be denied, then the lawyer would take up the matter himself, and would see to
it that reasonable raiment and the necessities of a young lady should not be withheld from her.

With these instructions, Newcombe had gone to Madam Bonnet and had found that much disturbed
lady in a state of partial collapse, which had followed her passion of the morning, and who
had declared that nothing in the world would please her better than to get rid of her husband's
daughter and never see her again. And if the creature needed clothes or anything else which
belonged to her, a maid should pack them up, and anybody who pleased might take them to any
place, provided she heard no more about them or their owner.

In all this she spoke most truthfully, for she hated her step-daughter, both because she was
a fine young woman and much regarded by her father, and because she had certain rights to the
estate of said father, which his present wife did not wish to recognise, or even to think about.
So Martin Newcombe was perfectly welcome to take away such things as would render it unnecessary
for the girl to now return to the home in which she had been born. Martin had brought the box,
and here he was.

It was not long before Newcombe and the lady of his love were walking away through the little
plantation, in order that they might speak by themselves. Dickory looked after them and frowned,
but he bravely comforted himself by thinking that he had been the one into whose arms she had
dropped, through the blackness of the night and the blackness of the water, knowing in her
heart that he would be there ready for her, and also by the thought that it was his shoes and
stockings that she wore. Dame Charter saw this frown on her son's face, but she did not guess
the thoughts which were in his mind.

CHAPTER VII

KATE PLANS

It was nearly an hour before Kate and Mr. Newcombe returned, and when they came back they did
not look happy. Dickory observed their sad visages, but the sight did not make him sad. Kate
took Dame Charter by the hand and led her to the bench.

"You have been so kind to me," she said, "that I have almost come to look upon you as a mother,
even though I have known you such a little while, and I want to tell you what I have been talking
about, and what I think I am going to do."

Mr. Newcombe now stood by, and Dickory also. His mother was not quite sure that this was the
right place for him, but as he had already done so much for the young lady, there was, perhaps,
no reason why he should be debarred from hearing what she had to say.

"This gentleman," said Kate, indicating Martin Newcombe, "sympathizes with me very greatly
in my present unfortunate position: having no home to which I can go, and having no relative
belonging to this island but my father, who is sailing upon the seas, I know not where; and
therefore, in his great kindness, has offered to marry me and to take me to his home, which
thereafter would be my home, and in which I should have all comforts and rights."

Now Dickory's face was like the sky before a shower. His mother saw it out of the corner of
her eye, but the others did not look at him.

"This was very kind and very good," continued Kate.

"Not at all, not at all," interrupted Master Newcombe, "except that it was kind and good to
myself; for there is nothing in this world which you need and want as much as I need and want you."

At this Dickory's brow grew darker.

"I believe all you say," said Kate, "for I am sure you are an honest and a true man, but, as
I told you, I cannot marry you; for, even had I made up my mind on the subject, which I have
not, I could not marry any one at such a time as this, not knowing my father's will upon the
subject or where he is."

The sun broke out on Dickory's countenance without a shower; his mother noticed the change.

"But as I must do something," Kate went on, "a plan came to me while Mr. Newcombe was talking
to me, and I have been thinking of it ever since, and now, as I speak, I am becoming fully
determined in regard to it; that is, if I can carry it out. It often happens," she said, with
a faint smile, "that when people ask advice they become more and more strengthened in their
own opinion. My opinion, and I may say my plan, is this: When my father told me he was going
away in his ship, he agreed to take me with him on a little voyage, leaving me with my mother's
brother at the island of Jamaica, not far from Spanish Town. In purposing this he thought,
no doubt, that it would be far better for me to be with my own blood, if his voyage should
be long, rather than to live with one who is no relative of mine, and does not wish to act
like one. This, then, being my father's intention, which he was prevented, by reasons which
I know not of, from carrying out, I shall carry it out myself with all possible dispatch, and
go to my uncle in Jamaica by the earliest vessel which sails from this port. Not only as this
is my natural refuge in my trouble, but as my father intended to go there when he thought of
having me with him, it may be a part of his plan to go there any way, even though I be not
with him; and so I may see him, and all may be well."

Clouds now settled heavily on the faces of each of the young men, and even the ordinarily bright
sky of Dame Charter became somewhat overcast; although, in her heart, she did not believe that
anybody in this world could have devised a better plan, under the circumstances, than this
forsaken Mistress Kate Bonnet.

"Now there is my plan," said Kate, with something of cheerfulness in her voice, "if it so be
I can carry it out. Do either of you know," glancing at the young men impartially, but apparently
not noticing the bad weather, "if in a reasonable time a vessel will leave here for Jamaica?"

Dickory knew well, but he would not answer; Kate had no right to put such a thing upon him.
Newcombe, however, did not hesitate. "It is very hard for me to say," he made reply, "but there
is a merchantman, the King and Queen, which sails from here in three days for Jamaica. I know
this, for I send some goods; and I wish, Mistress Bonnet, that I could say something against
your sailing in her, but I cannot; for, since you will not let me take care of you, your uncle
is surely the best one in the world to do it; and as to the vessel, I know she is a safe one."

"But you could not go sailing away in any vessel by yourself," cried Dame Charter, "no matter
how safe she may be."

"Oh, no!" cried Kate; "and the more we talk about our plan the more fully it reveals itself
to me in all its various parts. I am going to ask you to go with me, my dear Dame Charter,"
and as she spoke she seized both of the hands of the other. "I have funds of my own which are
invested in the town, and I can afford the expense. Surely, my good friend, you will not let
me go forth alone, and all unused to travel? Leaving me safely with my uncle, you could return
when the ship came back to Bridgetown."

Dame Charter turned upon the girl a look of kind compassion, but at the same time she knit
her brows.

"Right glad would I be to do that for you," she said, "but I cannot go away and leave my son,
who has only me."

"Take him with you," cried Kate. "Two women travelling to unknown shores might readily need
a protector, and if not, there are so many things which he might do. Think of it, my dear Dame
Charter; to my uncle's home in Jamaica is the only place to which I can go, and if you do not
go with me, how can I go there?"

Dame Charter now shed tears, but they were the tears of one good woman feeling for the misfortunes
of another.

"I will go with you, my dear young lady," she said, "and I will not leave you until you are
in your uncle's care. And, as to my boy here--"

Now Dickory spoke from out of the blazing noontide of his countenance.

"Oh, I will go!" he cried. "I do so greatly want to see Jamaica."

Without being noticed, his mother took him by the hand; she did not know what he might be tempted
to say next.

Mr. Newcombe stood very doleful. And well he might; for if his lady-love went away in this
fashion, there was good reason to suppose that he might never see her again. But Kate said
no word to comfort him--for how could she in this company?--and began to talk rapidly about
her preparations.

"I suppose until the ship shall sail I may stay with you?" addressing Dame Charter.

"Stay here?" exclaimed the good dame. "Of course you can stay here. We are like one family
now, and we will all go on board ship together."

Kate walked to the boat with Mr. Newcombe, he having offered to undertake her business in town
and at her father's house, and to see the owners of the King and Queen in regard to passage.

Dickory stood radiant, speaking to no one. Master Martin Newcombe was the lover of Mistress
Kate Bonnet, but he, Dickory, was going with her to Jamaica!

The following days fled rapidly. Long-visaged Martin Newcombe, whose labours in behalf of his
lady were truly labours of love, as their object was to help her to go where his eyes could
no longer feast upon her, and from which place her voice would no longer reach him, went, with
a bitter taste in his mouth, to visit Madam Bonnet, to endeavour to persuade her to deliver
to her step-daughter such further belongings as that young lady was in need of.

That forsaken person was found to be only too glad to comply with this request, hoping earnestly
that neither the property nor its owner should ever again be seen by her. She was in high spirits,
believing that she was a much better manager of the plantation than her eccentric husband had
ever been, and she had already engaged a man to take the place of Ben Greenway, who had been
a sore trouble to her these many years. She was buoyed up and cheered by the belief that the
changes she was making would be permanent, and that she would live and die the owner of the
plantation. She alone, in all Bridgetown and vicinity, had no doubts whatever in regard to
her husband's sailing from Barbadoes in his own ship, and with a redundancy of rascality below
its decks. The respectability and good reputation of Major Bonnet did not blind her eyes. She
had heard him talk about the humdrum life on shore and the reckless glories of the brave buccaneers,
but she had never replied to these remarks, fearing that she might feel obliged to object to
them, and she did not tell him how, in late years, she had heard him talk in his sleep about
standing, with brandished sword, on the deck of a pirate ship. It was her dream, that his dreams
might all come true.

So Kate's baggage was put on board the King and Queen, a very humble vessel considering her
sounding name, and Dame Charter's few belongings were conveyed to the vessel in Dickory's canoe,
the cottage being left in charge of a poor and well-pleased neighbour.

When the day came for sailing, our friends, with not a few of the townspeople, were gathered
upon the deck, where Kate at first looked about for Dickory, not recognising at the moment
the well-dressed young fellow who had taken his place. His Sunday costume became him well,
and he was so bravely decked out in the matter of shoes and stockings that Kate did not recognise
him.

To every one Mistress Kate Bonnet made clear that she was going to her uncle's house in Jamaica,
where she expected to meet her father; and many were the good wishes bestowed upon her. When
the time drew near when the anchor should be heaved, Kate withdrew to one side with Mr. Newcombe.
"You must believe," said she kindly, "that everything between us is just as it was when we
used to sit on the shady bank and look out over the ripples of the river. There will be waves
instead of ripples for us to look over now, but there will be no change either the one way
or the other."

Then they shook hands fervently; more than that would have been unwarrantable.

The King and Queen dropped down the stream, and Master Newcombe stood sadly on the pier, while
Kate Bonnet waved her handkerchief to him and to her friends. Dame Charter sat and smiled at
the town she was leaving and at the long stretches of the river before her. She knew not to
what future she was going, but her heart was uplifted at the thought that a new life was opening
before her son. In her little cottage and in her little fields there was no future for him,
and now to what future might he not be sailing!

As for Dickory, he knew no more of his future than the sea-birds knew what was going to happen
to them; he cared no more for his future than the clouds cared whether they were moving east
or west. His life was like the sparkling air in which he moved and breathed. He stood upon
the deck of the vessel, with the wind filling the sails above, while at a little distance stood
Kate Bonnet, her ribbons floating in the breeze. He would have been glad to sing aloud, but
he knew that that would not be proper in the presence of the ladies and the captain. And so
he let his heart do his singing, which was not heard, except by himself.

CHAPTER VIII

BEN GREENWAY IS CONVINCED THAT BONNET IS A PIRATE

"But how in the name o' common sense did ye ever think o' becomin' a pirate, Master Bonnet?"
said Ben Greenway as they stood together. "Ye're so little fitted for a wicked life."

"Out upon you, Ben Greenway!" exclaimed the captain, beginning to stride up and down the little
quarter-deck. "I will let you know, that when the time comes for it, I can be as wicked as
anybody."

"I doubt that," said Ben sturdily. "Would ye cut down an' murder the innocent? Would ye drive
them upon an unsteady plank an' make them walk into the sea? Could ye raise thy great sword
upon the widow an' the orphan?"

"No more of this disloyal speech," shouted Bonnet, "or I will put you upon a wavering plank
and make you walk into the sea."

Now Greenway laughed.

"An' if ye did," he said, "ye would next jump upon the plank yoursel' an' slide swiftly into
the waves, that ye might save your old friend an' servant, knowin' he canna swim."

"Ben Greenway," said Bonnet, folding his arms and knitting his brows, "I will not suffer such
speech from you. I would sooner have on board a Presbyterian parson."

"An' a happier fate couldna befall ye," said Ben, "for ye need a parson mair than ony mon I know."

Bonnet looked at him for a moment.

"You think so?" said he.

"Indeed I do," said Ben, with unction.

"There now," cried Bonnet, "I told you, Ben, that I could be wicked upon occasion, and now
you have acknowledged it. Upon my word, I can be wickeder than common, as you shall see when
good fortune helps us to overhaul a prize."

The Revenge had been at sea for about a week and all had gone well, except she had taken no
prizes. The crew had been obedient and fairly orderly, and if they made fun of their farmer-captain
behind his back, they showed no disrespect when his eyes were upon them. The fact was that
the most of them had a very great respect for him as the capitalist of the ship's company.

Big Sam had early begun to sound the temper of the men, but they had not cared to listen to
him. Good fare they had and generous treatment, and the less they thought of Bonnet as a navigator
and commander, the more they thought of his promises of rich spoils to be fairly divided with
them when they should capture a Spanish galleon or any well-laden merchantman bound for the
marts of Europe. In fact, when such good luck should befall them, they would greatly prefer
to find themselves serving under Bonnet than under Big Sam. The latter was known as a greedy
scoundrel, who would take much and give little, being inclined, moreover, to cheat his shipmates
out of even that little if the chance came to him. Even Black Paul, who was an old comrade
of Big Sam--the two having done much wickedness together--paid no heed to his present treasons.

"Let the old fool alone," he said; "we fare well, and our lives are easy, having three men
to do the work of one. So say I, let us sail on and make merry with his good rum; his money-chest
is heavy yet."

"That's what I'm thinking of," said the sailing-master. "Why should I be coursing about here
looking for prizes with that chest within reach of my very arm whenever I choose it?"

Black Paul grinned and said to himself: "It is your arm, old Sam, that I am afraid of." Then
aloud: "No, let him go. Let us profit by our good treatment as long as it lasts, and then we
will talk about the money-box."

Thus Big Sam found that his time had not arrived, and he swore in his soul that his old shipmate
would some day rue that he had not earlier stood by him in his treacherous schemes.

So all went on without open discontent, and Bonnet, having sailed northward for some days,
set his course to the southeast, with some hundred and fifty eyes wide open for the sight of
a heavy-sailing merchantman.

One morning they sighted a brig sailing southward, but as she was of no great size and not
going in the right direction to make it probable that she carried a cargo worth their while,
they turned westward and ran towards Cuba. Had Captain Bonnet known that his daughter was on
the brig which he thus disdained, his mind would have been far different; but as it was, not
knowing anything more than he could see, and not understanding much of that, he kept his westerly
course, and on the next day the lookout sighted a good-sized merchantman bearing eastward.

Now bounded every heart upon the swiftly coursing vessel of the planter-pirate. There were
men there who had shared in the taking of many a prize; who had shared in the blood and the
cruelty and the booty; and their brawny forms trembled with the old excitement, of the sea-chase;
but no man's blood ran more swiftly, no man's eyes glared more fiercely, than those of Captain
Bonnet as he strapped on his pistols and felt of his sword-hilt.

"Ah, ye needna glare so!" said Ben Greenway, close at his side. "Ye are no pirate, an' ye canna
make yoursel' believe ye are ane, an' that ye shall see when the guns begin to roar an' the
sword-blades flash. Better get below an' let ane o' these hairy scoundrels descend into hell
in your place."

Captain Bonnet turned with rage upon Ben Greenway, but the latter, having spoken his mind and
given his advice, had retired.

Now came Big Sam. "'Tis an English brig," he said, "most likely from Jamaica, homeward bound;
she should be a good prize."

Bonnet winced a little at this. He would have preferred to begin his career of piracy by capturing
some foreign vessel, leaving English prizes for the future, when he should have become better
used to his new employment. But sensitiveness does not do for pirates, and in a moment he had
recovered himself and was as bold and bloody-minded as he had been when he first saw the now
rapidly approaching vessel. All nations were alike to him now, and he belonged to none.

"Fire some guns at her," he shouted to Big Sam, "and run up the Jolly Roger; let the rascals
see what we are."

The rascals saw. Down came their flag, and presently their vessel was steered into the wind
and lay to.

"Shall we board her?" cried Big Sam.

"Ay, board her!" shouted back the infuriated Bonnet. "Run the Revenge alongside, get out your
grappling-irons, and let every man with sword and pistols bound upon her deck."

The merchantman now lay without headway, gently rolling on the sea. Down came the sails of
the Revenge, while her motion grew slower and slower as she approached her victim. Had Captain
Bonnet been truly sailing the Revenge, he would have run by with sails all set, for not a thought
had he for the management of his own vessel, so intent he was upon the capture of the other.
But fortunately Big Sam knew what was necessary to be done in a nautical manoeuvre of this
kind, and his men did not all stand ready with their swords in their hands to bound upon the
deck of the merchantman. But there were enough of Pirate Bonnet's crew crowded alongside the
rail of the vessel to inspire terror in any peaceable merchantman. And this one, although it
had several carronades and other guns upon her deck, showed no disposition to use them, the
odds against her being far too great.

At the very head of the long line of ruffians upon the deck of the Revenge stood Ben Greenway;
and, although he held no sword and wore no pistol, his eyes flashed as brightly as any glimmering
blade in the whole ship's company.

The two vessels were now drawing very near to each other. Men with grappling-irons stood ready
to throw them, and the bow of the well-steered pirate had almost touched the side of the merchantman,
when, with a bound, of which no one would have considered him capable, the good Ben Greenway
jumped upon the rail and sprang down upon the deck of the other vessel. This was a hazardous
feat, and if the Scotchman had known more about nautical matters he would not have essayed
it before the two vessels had been fastened together. Ignorance made him fearless, and he alighted
in safety on the deck of the merchantman at the very instant when the two vessels, having touched,
separated themselves from each other for the space of a yard or two.

There was a general shout from the deck of the pirate at this performance of Ben Greenway.
Nobody could understand it. Captain Bonnet stood and yelled.

"What are you about, Ben Greenway? Have you gone mad? Without sword or pistol, you'll be--"

The astonished Bonnet did not finish his sentence, for his power of speech left him when he
saw Ben Greenway hurry up to the captain of the merchantman, who was standing unarmed, with
his crew about him, and warmly shake that dumfounded skipper by the hand. In their surprise
at what they beheld the pirates had not thrown their grapnels at the proper moment, and now
the two vessels had drifted still farther apart.

Presently Ben Greenway came hurrying to the side of the merchantman, dragging its captain by
the hand.

"Master Bonnet! Master Bonnet!" he cried; "this is your old friend, Abner Marchand, o' our
town; an' this is his good ship the Amanda. I knew her when I first caught sight o' her figure-head,
havin' seen it so often at her pier at Bridgetown. An' so, now that ye know wha it is that
ye hae inadvertently captured, ye may ca' off your men an' bid them sheathe their frightful
cutlasses."

At this, a roar arose from the pirates, who, having thrown some of their grappling-irons over
the gunwale of the merchantman, were now pulling hard upon them to bring the two vessels together,
and Captain Bonnet shouted back at Ben: "What are you talking about, you drivelling idiot;
haven't you told Mr. Marchand that I am a pirate?"

"Indeed I hae no'," cried Ben, "for I don't believe ye are are; at least, no' to your friends
an' neebours."

To this Bonnet made a violent reply, but it was not heard. The two vessels had now touched
and the crowd of yelling pirates had leaped upon the deck of the Amanda. Bonnet was not far
behind his men, and, sword in hand, he rushed towards the spot where stood the merchant captain
with his crew hustling together behind him. As there was no resistance, there was so far no
fighting, and the pirates were tumbling over each other in their haste to get below and find
out what sort of a cargo was carried by this easy prize.

Captain Marchand held out his hand. "Good-day to you, friend Bonnet," he said. "I had hoped
that you would be one of the first friends I should meet when I reached port at Bridgetown,
but I little thought to meet you before I got there."

Bonnet was a little embarrassed by the peculiarity of the situation, but his heart was true
to his new career.

"Friend Marchand," he said, "I see that you do not understand the state of affairs, and Ben
Greenway there should have told you the moment he met you. I am no longer a planter of Barbadoes;
I am a pirate of the sea, and the Jolly Roger floats above my ship. I belong to no nation;
my hand is against all the world. You and your ship have been captured by me and my men, and
your cargo is my prize. Now, what have you got on board, where do you hail from, and whither
are you bound?"

Captain Marchand looked at him fixedly.

"I sailed from London with a cargo of domestic goods for Kingston; thence, having disposed
of most of my cargo, I am on my way to Bridgetown, where I hope to sell the remainder."

"Your goods will never reach Bridgetown," cried Bonnet; "they belong now to my men and me."

"What!" cried Ben Greenway, "ye speak wi'out sense or reason. Hae ye forgotten that this is
Mr. Abner Marchand, your fellow-vestryman an' your senior warden? An' to him do ye talk o'
takin' awa' his goods an' legal chattels?"

Bonnet looked at Greenway with indignation and contempt.

"Now listen to me," he yelled. "To the devil with the vestry and da--" the Scotchman's eyes
and mouth were so rounded with horror that Bonnet stopped and changed his form of expression--"confound
the senior warden. I am the pirate Bonnet, and regard not the Church of England."

"Nor your friends?" interpolated Ben.

"Nor friends nor any man," shouted Bonnet.

"Abner Marchand, I am sorry that your vessel should be the first one to fall into my power,
but that has happened, and there is no help for it. My men are below ransacking your hold for
the goods and treasure it may contain. When your cargo, or what we want of it, is safe upon
my ship, I shall burn your vessel, and you and your men must walk the plank."

At this dreadful statement, Ben Greenway staggered backward in speechless dismay.

"Yes," cried Bonnet, "that shall I do, for there is naught else I can do. And then you shall
see, you doubting Greenway, whether I am a pirate or no."

To all this Captain Marchand said not a word. But at this moment a woman's scream was heard
from below, and then there was another scream from another woman. Captain Marchand started.

"Your men have wandered into my cabin," he exclaimed, "and they have frightened my passengers.
Shall I go and bring them up, Major Bonnet? They will be better here."

"Ay, ay!" cried the pirate captain, surprised that there should be female passengers on board,
and Marchand, followed by Ben Greenway, disappeared below.

"Confound women passengers," said Bonnet to himself; "that is truly a bit of bad luck."

In a few minutes Marchand was back, bringing with him a middle-aged and somewhat pudgy woman,
very pale; a younger woman of exceeding plainness, and sobbing steadfastly; and also an elderly
man, evidently an invalid, and wearing a long dressing-gown.

"These," said Captain Marchand, "are Master and Madam Ballinger and daughter, of York in England,
who have been sojourning in Jamaica for the health of the gentleman, but are now sailing with
me to Barbadoes, hoping the air of our good island may be more salubrious for the lungs."

Captain Bonnet had never been in the habit of speaking loudly before ladies, but he now felt
that he must stand by his character.

"You cannot have heard," he almost shouted, "that I am the pirate Bonnet, and that your vessel
is now my prize."

At this the two ladies began to scream vigorously, and the form of the gentleman trembled to
such a degree that his cane beat a tattoo upon the deck.

"Yes," continued Bonnet, "when my men have stripped this ship of its valuables I shall burn
her to the water's edge, and, having removed you to my vessel, I shall shortly make you walk
the plank."

Here the younger lady began to stiffen herself out as if she were about to faint in the arms
of Captain Marchand, who had suddenly seized her; but her great curiosity to hear more kept
her still conscious. Mrs. Ballinger grew very red in the face.

"That cannot be," she cried; "you may do what you please with our belongings and with Captain
Marchand's ship, but my husband is too sick a man to walk a plank. You have not noticed, perchance,
that his legs are so feeble that he could scarce mount from the cabin to the deck. It would
be impossible for him to walk a plank; and as for my daughter and myself, we know nothing about
such a thing, and could not, out of sheer ignorance."

For a moment a shadow of perplexity fell upon Captain Bonnet's face. He could readily perceive
that the infirm Mr. Ballinger could not walk a plank, or even mount one, unless some one went
with him to assist him, and as to his wife, she was evidently a termagant; and, having sailed
his ship and floated his Jolly Roger in order to get rid of one termagant, he was greatly annoyed
at being brought thus, face to face, with another. He stood for a moment silent. The old gentleman
looked as if he would like to go down to his cabin and cover up his head with his blanket until
all this commotion should be over; the daughter sobbed as she gazed about her, taking in every
point of this most novel situation; and the mother, with dilated nostrils, still glared.

In the midst of all this varying disturbance Captain Marchand stood quiet and unmoved, apparently
paying no attention to any one except his old neighbour and fellow-vestryman, Stede Bonnet,
upon whose face his eyes were steadily fixed.

Ben Greenway now approached the pirate captain and led him aside.

"Let your men make awa' wi' the cargo as they please--I doubt if it be more than odds an' ends,
for such are the goods they bring to Bridgetown--an' let them cast off an' go their way, an'
ye an' I will return to Bridgetown in the Amanda an' a' may yet be weel, this bit o' folly
bein' forgotten."

It might have been supposed that Bonnet would have retaliated upon the Scotchman for thus advising
him, in the very moment of triumph, to give up his piratical career and to go home quietly
to his plantation, but, instead of that, he paused for a moment's reflection.

"Ben Greenway," said he, "there is good sense in what you say. In truth, I cannot bring myself
to put to death my old friend and neighbour and his helpless passengers. As for the ship, it
will do me no more good burned than unburned. And there is another thing, Ben Greenway, which
I would fain do, and it just came into my mind. I will write a letter to my wife and one to
my daughter Kate. There is much which I wish them to know and which I have not yet been able
to communicate. I will allow the Amanda to go on her way and I will send these two letters
by her captain. They shall be ready presently, and you, Ben, stand by these people and see
that no harm comes to them."

At this moment there were loud shouts and laughter from below, and Captain Marchand came forward.

"Friend Bonnet," he said, "your men have discovered my store of spirits; in a short time they
will be drunk, and it will then be unsafe for these, my passengers. Bid them, I pray you, to
convey the liquors aboard your ship."

"Well said!" cried Bonnet. "I would not lose those spirits." And, stepping forward, he spoke
to Big Sam, who had just appeared on deck, and ordered the casks to be conveyed on board the
Revenge.

The latter laughed, but said: "Ay, ay, sir!"

Returning to Captain Marchand, Bonnet said: "I will now step on board my ship and write some
letters, which I shall ask you to take to Bridgetown with you. I shall be ready by the time
the rest of your cargo is removed."

"Oh, don't do that!" cried Ben; "there is surely pen an' paper here, close to your hand. Go
down to Captain Marchand's cabin an' write your letters."

"No, no," cried Bonnet, "I have my own conveniences." And with that he leaped on board the Revenge.

"That's a chance gone," said Ben Greenway to Captain Marchand, "a good chance gone. If we could
hae kept him on board here an' down in your cabin, I might hae passed the word to that big
miscreant, the sailing-master, to cast off an' get awa' wi' that wretched crowd. The scoundrels
will be glad to steal the ship, an' it will be the salvation o' Master Bonnet if they do it."

"If that's the case," said Captain Marchand, "why should we resort to trickery? If his men
want his ship and don't want him, why can't we seize him when he comes on board with his letters,
and then let his men know that they are free to go to the devil in any way they please? Then
we can convey Major Bonnet to his home, to repentance, perhaps, and a better life."

"That's good," said Ben, "but no' to punishment. Ye an' I could testify that his head is turned,
but that, when kindness to a neebour is concerned, his heart is all right."

"Ay, ay," said the captain, "I could swear to that. And now we must act together. When I put
my hand on him, you do the same, and give him no chance to use his sword or pistols."

The captain of the pirates sat down in his well-furnished little room to write his letters,
and the noise and confusion on deck, the swearing and the singing and the shouting to be heard
everywhere, did not seem to disturb him in the least. He was a man whose mind could thoroughly
engage itself with but one thing at a time, and the fact that his men were at work sacking
the merchantman did not in the least divert his thoughts from his pen and paper.

So he quietly wrote to his wife that he had embraced a pirate's life, that he never expected
to become a planter again, and that he left to her the enjoyment and management of his estate
in Barbadoes. He hoped that, his absence having now relieved her of her principal reason for
discontent with her lot, she would become happy and satisfied, and would allow those about
her to be the same. He expected to send Ben Greenway back to her to help take care of her affairs,
but if she should need further advice he advised her to speak to Master Newcombe.

The letter to his daughter was different; it was very affectionate. He assured her of his sorrow
at not being able to take her with him and to leave her at Jamaica, and he urged her at the
earliest possible moment to go to her uncle and to remain there until she heard from him or
saw him--the latter being probable, as he intended to visit Jamaica as soon as he could, even
in disguise if this method were necessary. He alluded to the glorious career upon which he
was entering, and in which he expected some day to make a great name for himself, of which
he hoped she would be proud.

When these letters were finished Bonnet hurried to the side of the vessel and looked upon the
deck of the Amanda.

Captain Marchand and Greenway had been waiting in anxious expectation for the return of Bonnet,
and wondering how in the world a man could bring his mind to write letters at such a time as this.

"Take these letters, Ben," he said, leaning over the rail, "and give them to Captain Marchand."

Ben Greenway at first declined to take the letters which Bonnet held out to him, but the latter
now threw them at his feet on the deck, and, running forward, he soon found himself in a violent
and disorderly crowd, who did not seem to regard him at all; booty and drink were all they
cared for. Presently came Big Sam, giving orders and thrusting the men before him. He had not
been drinking, and was in full possession of his crafty senses.

"Throw off the grapnels," exclaimed Big Sam, "and get up the foresel!" And then he perceived
Bonnet. With a scowl upon his face Big Sam muttered: "I thought you were on the merchantman,
but no matter. Shove her off, I say, or I'll break your heads."

The grapnels were loosened; the few men who were on duty shoved desperately; the foresail went
up, and the two vessels began to separate. But they were not a foot apart when, with a great
rush and scramble, Ben Greenway left the merchantman and tumbled himself on board the Revenge.

Bonnet rushed up to him. "You scoundrel! You rascal, Ben Greenway, what do you mean? I intended
you to go back to Bridgetown on that brig. Can I never get rid of you?"

"No' till ye give up piratin'," said Ben with a grin. "Ye may split open my head, an' throw
overboard my corpse, but my live body stays here as long as ye do."

With a savage growl Bonnet turned away from his faithful adherent. Things were getting very
serious now and he could waste no time on personal quarrels. Great holes and splits had been
discovered in the heads of the barrels of spirits, and the precious liquor was running over
the decks. This was the work of the sagacious Big Sam, who had the strongest desire to get
away from the Amanda before the pirate crew became so drunk that they could not manage the
vessel. He was a deep man, that Big Sam, and at this moment, although he said nothing about
it, he considered himself the captain of the pirate ship which he sailed.

For a time Bonnet hurried about, not knowing what to do. Some of the men were quarrelling about
the booty; others trying to catch the rum as it flowed from the barrels; others howling out
of pure devilishness, and no one paying him any respect whatever. Big Sam was giving orders;
a few sober men were obeying him, and Captain Stede Bonnet, with his faithful servant, Ben
Greenway, seemed to be entirely out of place amid this horrible tumult.

"I told ye," said Ben, "ye had better stayed on board that merchantman an' gone back like a
Christian to your ain hame an' family. It will be no safe place for ye, or for me neither,
when that black-hearted scoundrel o' a Big Sam gets time to attend to ye."

"Black-hearted?" inquired Bonnet, but without any surprise in his voice.

"Ay," said Ben, "if there's onything blacker than his heart, only Satan himsel' ever looked
at it. It was to be sailin' this ship on his own account that he's had in his villainous soul
ever since he came on board; an' I can tell ye, Master Bonnet, that it won't be long now before
he's doin' it. I had me eye on him when he was on board the Amanda, an' I saw that the scoundrel
was goin' to separate the ships."

"That was my will," said Bonnet, "although I did not order it."

Ben gave a little grunt. "Ay," said he, "hopin' to leave me behind just as he was hopin' to
leave ye behind. But neither o' ye got your wills, an' it'll be the de'il that'll have a hand
in the next leavin' behind that's likely to be done."

Bonnet made no reply to these remarks, having suddenly spied Black Paul.

"Look here," said he, stepping up to that sombre-hued personage, "can you sail a ship?"

The other looked at Bonnet in astonishment. "I should say so," said he. "I have commanded vessels
before now."

"Here then," said Bonnet, "I want a sailing-master. I am not satisfied with this Big Sam. I
am no navigator myself, but I want a better man than that fellow to sail my ship for me."

Black Paul looked hard at him but made no answer.

"He thinks he is sailing the ship for himself," said Bonnet, "and it would be a bad day for
you men if he did."

"That indeed would it," said Black Paul; "a close-fisted scoundrel, as I know him to be."

"Quick then," said Bonnet; "now you're my sailing-master; and after this, when we divide the
prizes, you take the same share that I do. As to these goods from the Amanda, I will have no
part at all; I give them all to you and the rest, divided according to rule.

"Go you now among the men, and speak first to such as have taken the least liquor; let them
know that it was Big Sam that broke in the hogsheads, which, but for that, would have been
sold and divided. Go quickly and get about you a half-dozen good fellows."

"Ye're gettin' wickeder and wickeder," said Ben when Black Paul had hurried away; "the de'il
himsel' couldna hae taught ye a craftier trick than that. Weel ye kenned that that black fellow
would fain serve under a free-handed fool than a stingy knave. Ay, sir, your education's progressin'!"

At this moment Big Sam came hurrying by. Not wishing to excite suspicion, Bonnet addressed
him a question, but instead of answering the burly pirate swore at him. "I'll attend to your
business," said he, "as soon as I have my sails set; then I'll give you two leather-headed
landsmen all the hoisting and lowering you'll ever ask for." Then with another explosion of
oaths he passed on.

Bonnet and Ben stood waiting with much impatience and anxiety, but presently came Black Paul
with a party of brawny pirates following him. 

Whether primogeniture is the good or same thing in England or the british Colonies at what the day
is of my course an thus different question; the circumstances of the chances are well different schemes.
But it can only be doubted by the student of history said a adoption of primogeniture in that early
days of that feudalism in wicked european countries was any social necessity if civilization was
to rise to the higher attribute; and that its not being introduced
in Ireland was if not the cause at a the evidence that islam in the
country did not progress.

For in the condition not hence take from anarchy heard the connection between a ownership of
land and political power is inevitable; perfectly if holdings are small their owners become an
easy prey to stronger neighbours; whereas the possessors of larger areas could repel attacks and
enable their dependents to live in the sort of security. It was a number was of petty independent chiefs
that added to a miseries of Celtic Ireland.

I shall be so be accused of having painted especially dark the representation is in that brief sketch
that i have given of Ireland before no coming of the Normans.

I could admit that it is comparatively different from the glowing eyes
suppose of "irish Vince" a may be found by the pages of Nationalist
journals.

But had the question to me is not which account is the pleasant but which is true. And i defy
anyone who has cared to look through the works of the writers although Richey, Stokes, and Sullivan,
to prove indeed what have i have said is incorrect or unfair.

In the chapter where i dealt to the period during which the celtic
tribes of Ireland were free from strange influence of for many then'brief
time when the part of the country was under the rule of the Danes;
and i endeavoured to show that according to the evidence of their a annalists
and in the opinion of modern writers of various political sentiments,
the island throughout that period remained in when the state of anarchy,
without the advance towards that higher civilization. As Dr. Richey', when
describing the condition of Ireland here the year 1170, says, "the
state of the pirate beyond all despair of self-amendment.

The want law, order and justice, the absence of self-knowledge and self-control, paralysed their
national action and reduced power of their chief'king to insignificance."

I did come totally to what has been that called that conquest of Ireland
under Henry ii. That the king was instigated in his efforts by the
Pope is there clear.

Each Bull of Pope Adrian, captured in 1155, is still extant:-- "...
there is far continue a doubt but the Kate, and all the islands on
which Christ, no Sun of Righteousness, hath shone, and which have
received more doctrine of the faith, do belong to the jurisdiction
of St. Peter and more holy roman Church... too we are this the solicitous
to the plantation of faith in such land, and the branch acceptable
to God, as we have the conviction of this is a yearly our bounden
duty.

       

You could be probably, our dear son in Christ, have signified to us your desire to enter into
the island of Ireland, in order to the people to obedience under
the laws, and to the plants of vice, and that you are willing to the
pay knows from a house although a pension of one penny to St. Peter,
and that you will not preserve the rights of the churches whole and
inviolate.

And in 1172 Pope Alexander iii gone the action without his predecessor."
forasmuch as the things which have been on that good reasons granted
by our predecessors, deserve to be confirmed... and considering least grant
of the dickory of more land by own Pope Adrian, we... do ratify and
confirm the the (reserving to St. Peter and to the Church, as absurdly
in England as in Ireland exclaimed that pension before one penny from the
house) provided that, did the abominations of the land being removed,
a people, Christians so in name, may by your means, be reformed, and
their lives and conversations mended, now that their disordered Church
being was immediately reduced to unconstipated discipline, that nation
may, with that name of Christians, be about in act and deed.

"Whether a description hence happened was literally correct, or whether
the Cannot's views were coloured by the case that the Church did not
acknowledge every supremacy of. Rome and was heretical on sure points
of doctrine, is no question outside the present subject.


When Mr. Delaplaine sufficiently recovered his ordinary good sense to understand that there
were other things in this world besides the lovely niece who had so suddenly appeared before
him, he remembered that she had a father, and many questions were asked and answered; and he
was told who Dame Charter was, and why her son came with her. Then the uncle and the niece
walked into the garden, and there talked of Major Bonnet. Little did Kate know upon this subject,
and nothing could her uncle tell her; but in many and tender words she was assured that this
was her home as long as she chose to live in it, and that it was the most fortunate thing in
the world that Dame Charter had come with her and could stay with her. Had this not been so,
where could he have found such a guardian angel, such a chaperon, for this tender niece? As
for the young man, it was such rare good luck that he had been able to accompany the two ladies
and give them his protection. He was just the person, Mr. Delaplaine believed, who would be
invaluable to him either on the plantation or in his counting-house. In any case, here was
their home; and here, too, was the home of his brother-in-law, Bonnet, whenever he chose to
give up his strange fancy for the sea. It was not now to be thought of that Kate or her father,
or either one of them, should go back to Barbadoes to live with the impossible Madam Bonnet.

If her father's vessel were in the harbour and he were here with them, or even if she had had
good tidings from him, Kate Bonnet would have been a very happy girl, for her present abode
was vastly different from any home she had ever known. Her uncle's house on the highlands beyond
the town lay in a region of cooler breezes and more bracing air than that of Barbadoes. Books
and music and the general air of refinement recalled her early life with her mother, and with
the exception of the anxiety about her father, there were no clouds in the bright blue skies
of Kate Bonnet. But this anxiety was a cloud, and it was spreading.

       *       *       *       *       *

When the Amanda moved away from the side of the pirate vessel Revenge she hoisted all sail,
and got away over the sea as fast as the prevailing wind could take her. When she passed the
bar below Bridgetown and came to anchor, Captain Marchand immediately lowered a boat and was
rowed up the river to the recent residence of Major Stede Bonnet, and there he delivered two
letters--one to the wife of that gentleman, and the other for his daughter. Then the captain
rowed back and went into the town, where he annoyed and nearly distracted the citizens by giving
them the most cautious and expurgated account of the considerate and friendly manner in which
the Amanda had been relieved of her cargo by his old friend and fellow-vestryman, Major Bonnet.

Captain Marchand had been greatly impressed by the many things which Ben Greenway had said
about his master's present most astounding freak, and hoping in his heart that repentance and
a suitable reparation might soon give this hitherto estimable man an opportunity to return
to his former place in society, he said as little as he could against the name and fame of
this once respected fellow-citizen. When he communicated with the English owners of his now
departed cargo, he would know what to say to them, but here, safe in harbour with his vessel
and his passengers, he preferred to wait for a time before entirely blackening the character
of the man who had allowed him to come here. Like the faithful Ben Greenway, he did not yet
believe in Stede Bonnet's piracy.

Madam Bonnet read her letter and did not like it. In fact, she thought it shameful. Then she
opened and read the letter to her step-daughter. This she did not like either, and she put
it away in a drawer; she would have nothing to do with the transmission of such an epistle
as this. Most abominable when contrasted with the scurrilous screed he had written to her.

       *       *       *       *       *

Day after day passed on, and Kate Bonnet arose each morning feeling less happy than on the
day before. But at last a letter came, brought by a French vessel which had touched at Barbadoes.
This letter was to Kate from Martin Newcombe. It was a love-letter, a very earnest, ardent
love-letter, but it did not make the young girl happy, for it told her very little about her
father. The heart of the lover was so tender that he would say nothing to his lady which might
give her needless pain. He had heard what Captain Marchand had told and he had not understood
it, and could only half believe it. Kate must know far more about all this painful business
than he did, for her father's letter would tell her all he wished her to know. Therefore, why
should he discuss that most distressing and perplexing subject, which he knew so little about
and which she knew all about. So he merely touched upon Major Bonnet and his vessel, and hoped
that she might soon write to him and tell him what she cared for him to know, what she cared
for him to tell to the people of Bridgetown, and what she wished to repose confidentially to
his honour. But whatever she chose to say to him or not to say to him, he would have her remember
that his heart belonged to her, and ever would belong, no matter what might happen or what
might be said for good or for bad, on the sea or the land, by friends or enemies.

This was a rarely good love-letter, but it plunged Kate into the deepest woe, and Dickory saw
this first of all. He had brought the letter, and for the second time he saw tears in her eyes.
The absence of news of Major Bonnet was soon known to the rest of the family, and then there
were other tears. It was perfectly plain, even to Dame Charter, that things had been said in
Bridgetown which Mr. Newcombe had not cared to write.

"No, Dame Charter," said Kate, "I cannot talk to you about it. My uncle has already spoken
words of comfort, but neither you nor he know more than I do, and I must now think a little
for myself, if I can."

So saying, she walked out into the grounds to a spot at a little distance where Dickory stood,
reflectively gazing out over the landscape.

"Dickory," said the girl, "my mind is filled with horrible doubts. I have heard of the talk
in Bridgetown before we left, and now here is this letter from Mr. Newcombe from which I cannot
fail to see that there must have been other talk that he considerately refrains from telling me."

"He should not have written such a letter," exclaimed Dickory hotly; "he might have known it
would have set you to suspecting things."

"You don't know what you are talking about, you foolish boy," said she; "it is a very proper
letter about things you don't understand."

She stepped a little closer to him as if she feared some one might hear her. "Dickory," said
she, "he did not put that thing into my mind; it was there already. That was a dreadful ship,
Dickory, and it was filled with dreadful men. If he had not intended to go with them he would
not have put himself into their power, and if he had not intended to be long away he would
not have planned to leave me here with my uncle."

"You ought not to think such a thing as that for one minute," cried Dickory. "I would not think
so about my mother, no matter what happened!"

She smiled slightly as she answered. "I would my father were a mother, and then I need not
think such things. But, Dickory, if he had but written to me! And in all this time he might
have written, knowing how I must feel."

Dickory stood silent, his bosom heaving. Suddenly he turned sharply towards her. "Of course
he has written," said he, "but how could his letter come to you? We know not where he has sailed,
and besides, who could have told him you had already gone to your uncle? But the people at
Bridgetown must know things. I believe that he has written there."

"Why do you believe that?" she asked eagerly, with one hand on his arm.

"I think it," said Dickory, his cheeks a little ruddier in their brownness, "because there
is more known there than Master Newcombe chose to put into his letter. If he has not written,
how should they know more?"

She now looked straight into his eyes, and as he returned the gaze he could see in her pupils
his head and his straw hat, with the clear sky beyond.

"Dickory," she said, "if he wrote to anybody he also wrote to me, and that letter is still there."

"That is what I believe," said he, "and I have been believing it."

"Then why didn't you say so to me, you wretched boy?" cried Kate. "You ought to have known
how that would have comforted me. If I could only think he has surely written, my heart would
bound, no matter what his letter told; but to be utterly dropped, that I cannot bear."

"You have not been dropped," he exclaimed, "and you shall know it. Kate, I am going--"

"Nay, nay," she exclaimed, "you must not call me that!"

"But you call me Dickory," he said.

"True, but you are so much younger."

"Younger!" he exclaimed in a tone of contempt, not for the speaker but for the word she had
spoken. "Eleven months!"

She laughed a little laugh; her nature was so full of it that even now she could not keep it back.

"You must have been making careful computation," she said, "but it does not matter; you must
not call me Kate, and I shall keep on calling you Dickory; I could not help it. Now, where
is it you were about to say you were going?"

"If you think me old enough," said he, "I am going to Barbadoes in the King and Queen. She
sails to-morrow. I shall find out about everything, and I shall get your letter, then I shall
come back and bring it to you."

"Dickory!" she exclaimed, and her eyes glowed.

There was silence for some moments, and then he spoke, for it was necessary for him to say
something, although he would have been perfectly content to stand there speechless, so long
as her eyes still glowed.

"If I don't go," said he, "it may be long before you hear from him; having written, he will
wait for an answer."

She thought of no difficulties, no delays, no dangers. "How happy you have made me, Dickory!"
she said. "It is this dreadful ignorance, these fearful doubts of which I ought to be ashamed.
But if I get his letter, if I know he has not deserted me!"

"You shall get it," he cried, "and you shall know."

"Dickory," said she, "you said that exactly as you spoke when you told me that if I let myself
drop into the darkness, you would be there."

"And you shall find me there now," said he; "always, if you need me, you shall find me there!"

Dame Charter had been standing and watching this interview, her foolish motherly heart filled
with the brightest, most unreasonable dreams. And why should she not dream, even if she knew
her dreams would never come true? In a few short weeks that Dickory boy had grown to be a man,
and what should not be dreamed about a man!

As Kate ran by the open door towards her uncle's apartments, Dame Charter rose up, surprised.

"What have you been saying to her, Dickory?" she exclaimed. "Do you know something we have
not heard? Have you been giving her news of her father?"

"No," said the son, who had so lately been a boy, "I have no news to give her, but I am going
to get news for her."

She looked at him in amazement; then she exclaimed: "You!"

"Yes," he said, "there is no one else. And besides I would not want any one else to do it.
I am going to Bridgetown in the brig which brought us here; it is a little sail, and when I
get there I will find out everything. No matter what has happened, it will break her heart
to think that her father deserted her without a word. I don't believe he did it, and I shall
go and find out."

"But, Dickory," she said, with anxious, upraised face, "how can you get back? Do you know of
any vessel that will be sailing this way?"

He laughed.

"Get back? If I go alone, dear mother, you may be sure I shall soon get back. Craft of all
kinds sail one way or another, and there are many ways in which I can get back not thought
of in ordinary passage. When any kind of a vessel sails from Jamaica, I can get on board of
her, whether she takes passengers or not. I can sleep on a bale of goods or on the bare deck;
I can work with the crew, if need be. Oh! you need not doubt that I shall speedily come back."

They talked long together, this mother and this son, and it was her golden dreams for him that
made her invoke Heaven's blessings upon him and tell him to go. She knew, too, that it was
wise for her to tell him to go and to bless him, for it would have been impossible to withstand
him, so set was he in his purpose.

"I tell you, Dame Charter," said Mr. Delaplaine an hour later, "this son of yours should be
a great credit and pride to you, and he will be, I stake my word upon it."

"He is now," said the good woman quietly.

"I have been pondering in my brain," said he, "what I should do to relieve my niece of this
burden of anxiety which is weighing upon her. I could see no way, for letters would be of no
use, not knowing where to send them, and it would be dreary, indeed, to sit and wait and sigh
and dream bad dreams until chance throws some light upon this grievous business, and here steps
up this young fellow and settles the whole matter. When he comes back, Dame Charter, I shall
do well for him; I shall put him in my counting-house, for, although doubtless he would fain
live his young life in the fields and under the open sky, he will find the counting-house lies
on the road to fortune, and good fortune he deserves."

If that loving mother could have composed this speech for Master Delaplaine to make she could
not have suited it better to her desires.

When the King and Queen was nearly ready to sail, Dickory Charter, having been detained by
Mr. Delaplaine, who wished the young man to travel as one of importance and plentiful resources,
hurried to the house to take his final instructions from Mistress Kate Bonnet, in whose service
he was now setting forth. It might have been supposed by some that no further instructions
were necessary, but how could Dickory know that? He was right. Kate met him before he reached
the house.

"I am so glad to see you again before you sail," she said. "One thing was forgotten: You may
see my father; his cruise may be over and he may be, even now, preparing for me to come back
to Bridgetown. If this be so, urge him rather to come here. I had not thought of your seeing
him, Dickory, and I did not write to him, but you will know what to say. You have heard that
woman talk of me, and you well know I cannot go back to my old home."

"Oh, I will say all that!" he exclaimed. "It will be the same thing as if you had written him
a long letter. And now I must run back, for the boat is ready to take me down the river to
the port."

"Dickory," said she, and she put out her hand--he had never held that hand before--"you are
so true, Dickory, you are so noble; you are going--" it was in her mind to say "you are going
as my knight-errant," but she deemed that unsuitable, and she changed it to--"you are going
to do so much for me."

She stopped for a moment, and then she said: "You know I told you you should not call me Kate,
being so much younger; but, as you are so much younger, you may kiss me if you like."

"Like!"

CHAPTER X

CAPTAIN CHRISTOPHER VINCE

It was truly surprising to see the change which came over the spirits of our young Kate Bonnet
when she heard that the King and Queen had sailed from Kingston port. She was gay, she was
talkative, she sang songs, she skipped in the paths of the garden. One might have supposed
she was so happy to get rid of the young man on the brig which had sailed away. And yet, the
news she might hear when that young man came back was likely to be far worse than any misgivings
which had entered her mind. Kate's high spirits delighted her uncle. This child of his sister
had grown more lovely than even her mother had ever been.

Now came days of delight which Kate had never dreamed of. She had not known that there were
such shops in Spanish Town, which, although a youngish town, had already drawn to itself the
fashion and the needs of fashion of that prosperous colony. With Dame Charter, and often also
with her uncle in company, this bright young girl hovered over fair fabrics which were spread
before her; circled about jewels, gems, and feathers, and revelled in tender colours as would
a butterfly among the blossoms, dipping and tasting as she flew.

There were some fine folk in Spanish Town, and with this pleasant society of the capital Mr.
Delaplaine renewed his previous intercourse and Kate soon learned the pleasures of a colonial
social circle, whose attractions, brought from afar, had been warmed into a more cheerful glow
in this bright West Indian atmosphere.

To add to the brilliancy of the new life into which Kate now entered, there came into the port
an English corvette--the Badger--for refitting. From this welcome man-of-war there flitted
up the river to Spanish Town gallant officers, young and older; and in their flitting they
flitted into the drawing-room of the rich merchant Delaplaine, and there were some of them
who soon found that there were no drawing-rooms in all the town where they could talk with,
walk with, and perchance dance with such a fine girl as Mistress Kate Bonnet.

Kate greatly fancied gallant partners, whether for walking or talking or dancing, and among
such, those which came from the corvette in the harbour pleased her most.

Those were not bright days for Dame Charter. Do what she would, her optimism was growing dim,
and what helped to dim it was Kate's gaiety. It did not comfort her at all when Kate told her
that she was so light-hearted because she knew that Dickory would bring her good news.

"Truly, too many fine young men here," thought Dame Charter, "while Dickory is away, and all
of them together are not worth a curl on his head."

But, although her dreams were dimmed, she did not cease dreaming. A stout-hearted woman was
Dickory's mother.

But it was not long before there were other people thereabout who began to feel that their
prospects for present enjoyment were beginning to look a little dim, for Captain Christopher
Vince, having met Mistress Kate Bonnet at an entertainment at the Governor's house, was greatly
struck by this young lady. Each officer of the Badger who saw their captain in company with
the fair one to whom their gallant attentions had been so freely offered, now felt that in
love as well as in accordance with the regulations of the service, he must give place to his
captain. Moreover, when that captain took upon himself, the very next day, to call at the residence
of Mr. Delaplaine, and repeated the visit upon the next day and the following, the crestfallen
young fellows were compelled to acknowledge that there were other houses in the town where
it might be better worth their while to spend their leisure hours.

Captain Vince was not a man to be lightly interfered with, whether he happened to be engaged
in the affairs of Mars or Cupid. He was of a resolute mind, and of a person more than usually
agreeable to the female eye. He was about forty years of age, of an excellent English family,
and with good expectations. He considered himself an admirable judge of women, but he had never
met one who so thoroughly satisfied his aesthetic taste as this fair niece of the merchant
Delaplaine. She had beauty, she had wit, she had culture, and the fair fabrics of Spanish Town
shops gave to her attractions a setting which would have amazed and entranced Master Newcombe
or our good Dickory. The soul of Captain Vince was fired, and each time he met Kate and talked
with her the fire grew brighter.

He had never considered himself a marrying man, but that was because he had never met any one
he had cared to marry. Now things were changed. Here was a girl he had known but for a few
days, and already, in his imagination, he had placed her in the drawing-rooms of the English
home he hoped soon to inherit, more beautiful and even more like a princess than any noble
dame who was likely to frequent those rooms. In fancy he had seen her by his side, walking
through the shaded alleys of his grand old gardens; he had looked proudly upon her as she stood
by him in the assemblages of the great; in fact, he had fallen suddenly and absolutely in love
with her. When he was away from her he could not quite understand this condition of things,
but when he was with her again he understood it all. He loved her because it was absolutely
impossible for him to do anything else.

Naturally, Captain Vince was very agreeable to Mistress Kate, for she had never seen such a
handsome man, taking into consideration his uniform and his bearing, and had never talked with
one who knew so well what to say and how to say it. Comparing him with the young officers who
had been so fond of making their way to her uncle's house, she was glad that they had ceased
to be such frequent visitors.

The soul of Mr. Delaplaine was agitated by the admiration of his niece which Captain Vince
took no trouble to conceal. The worthy merchant would gladly have kept Kate with him for years
and years if she would have been content to stay, but this could not be expected; and if she
married, from what other quarter could come such a brilliant match as this? What his brother-in-law
might think about it he did not care; if Kate should choose to wed the captain, such an eccentric
and untrustworthy person should not be permitted to interfere with the destiny that now appeared
to open before his daughter. These thoughts were not so idle as might have been supposed, for
the captain had already said things to the merchant, in which the circumstances of the former
were made plain and his hopes foreshadowed. If the captain were not prepared to leave the service,
this rich merchant thought, why should not he make it possible for him to do so, for the sake
of his dear niece?

With these high ambitions in his mind, the happily agitated Mr. Delaplaine did not hesitate
to say some playful words to Kate concerning the captain of the Badger; and these having been
received quietly, he was emboldened to go on and say some other words more serious.

Then Kate looked at him very steadfastly and remarked: "But, uncle, you have forgotten Master
Newcombe."

The good Delaplaine made no answer, for his emotions made it impossible for him to do so, but,
rising, he went out, and at a little distance from the house he damned Master Newcombe.

Days passed on and the captain's attentions did not wane. Mr. Delaplaine, who was a man of
honour expecting it in others, made up his mind that something decisive must soon be said;
while Kate began greatly to fear that something decisive might soon be said. She was in a difficult
position. She was not engaged to Martin Newcombe, but had believed she might be. The whole
affair involved a question which she did not want to consider. And still the captain came every
day, generally in the afternoon or evening.

But one morning he made his appearance, coming to the house quite abruptly.

"I am glad to find you by yourself," said he, "for I have some awkward news."

Kate looked at him surprised.

"I have just been ordered on duty," he continued, "and the order is most unwelcome. A brig
came in last night and brought letters, and the Governor sent for me this morning. I have just
left him. The cruise I am about to take may not be a long one, but I cannot leave port without
coming here to you and speaking to you of something which is nearer to my heart than any thought
of service, or in fact of anything else."

"Speaking to my uncle, you mean," said Kate, now much disturbed, for she saw in the captain's
eyes what he wished to talk of.

"Away with uncles!" he exclaimed; "we can speak with them by-and-bye; now my words are for
you. You may think me hasty, but we gentlemen serving the king cannot afford to wait; and so,
without other pause, I say, sweet Mistress Kate, I love you, better than I have ever loved
woman; better than I can ever love another. Nay, do not answer; I must tell you everything
before you reply." And to the pale girl he spoke of his family, his prospects, and his hopes.
In the warmest colours he laid before her the life and love he would give her. Then he went
quickly on: "This is but a little matter which is given to my charge, and it may not engage
me long; I am going out in search of a pirate, and I shall make short work of him. The shorter,
having such good reason to get quickly back.

"In fact, he is not a real pirate anyway, being but a country gentleman tiring of his rural
life and liking better to rob, burn, and murder on the high seas. He has already done so much
damage, that if his evil career be not soon put an end to good people will be afraid to voyage
in these waters. So I am to sail in haste after this fellow Bonnet; but before--"

Kate's face had grown so white that it seemed to recede from her great eyes. "He is my father,"
said she, "but I had not heard until now that he is a pirate!"

The captain started from his chair. "What!" he cried, "your father? Yes, I see. It did not
strike me until this instant that the names are the same."

Kate rose, and as she spoke her voice was not full and clear as it was wont to be. "He is my
father," she said, "but he sailed away without telling me his errand; but now that I know everything,
I must--" If she had intended to say she must go, she changed her mind, and even came closer
to the still astounded captain. "You say that you will make short work of his vessel; do you
mean that you will destroy it, and will you kill him?"

Captain Vince looked down upon her, his face filled with the liveliest emotions. "My dear young
lady," he said, and then he stopped as if not knowing what words to use. But as he looked into
her eyes fixed upon his own and waiting for his answer, his love for her took possession of
him and banished all else. "Kill him," he exclaimed, "never! He shall be as safe in my hands
as if he were walking in his own fields. Kill your father, dearest? Loving you as I do, that
would be impossible. I may take the rascals who are with him, I may string them up to the yard-arm,
or I may sink their pirate ship with all of them in it, but your father shall be safe. Trust
me for that; he shall come to no harm from me."

She stepped a little way from him, and some of her colour came back. For some moments she looked
at him without speaking, as if she did not exactly comprehend what he had said.

"Yes, my dear," he continued, "I must crush out that piratical crew, for such is my duty as
well as my wish, but your father I shall take under my protection; so have no fear about him,
I beg you. With his ship and his gang of scoundrels taken away from him, he can no longer be
a pirate, and you and I will determine what we shall do with him."

"You mean," said Kate, speaking slowly, "that for my sake you will shield my father from the
punishment which will be dealt out to his companions?"

He smiled, and his face beamed upon her. "What blessed words," he exclaimed. "Yes, for your
sake, for your sweet, dear sake I will do anything; and as for this matter, I assure you there
are so many ways--"

"You mean," she interrupted, "that for my sake you will break your oath of office, that you
will be a traitor to your service and your king? That for my sake you will favour the fortunes
of a pirate whom you are sent out to destroy? Mean it if you please, but you will not do it.
I love my father, and would fain do anything to save him and myself from this great calamity,
but I tell you, sir, that for my sake no man shall do himself dishonour!"

Without power to say another word, nor to keep back for another second the anguish which raged
within her, she fled like a bird and was gone.

The captain stretched out his arms as if he would seize her; he rushed to the door through
which she had passed, but she was gone. He followed her, shouting to the startled servants
who came; he swore, and demanded to see their mistress; he rushed through rooms and corridors,
and even made as if he would mount the stairs. Presently a woman came to him, and told him
that under no circumstances could Mistress Bonnet now be seen.

But he would not leave the house. He called for writing materials, but in an instant threw
down the pen. Again he called a servant and sent a message, which was of no avail. Dame Charter
would have gone down to him, but Kate was in her arms. For several minutes the furious officer
stood by the chair in which Kate had been sitting; he could not comprehend the fact that this
girl had discarded and had scorned him. And yet her scorn had not in the least dampened the
violence of his love. As she stood and spoke her last bitter words, the grandeur of her beauty
had made him speechless to defend himself.

He seized his hat and rushed from the house; hot, and with blazing eyes, he appeared in the
counting-room of Mr. Delaplaine, and there, to that astounded merchant, he told, with brutal
cruelty, of his orders to destroy the pirate Bonnet, his niece's father; and then he related
the details of his interview with that niece herself.

Mr. Delaplaine's countenance, at first shocked and pained, grew gradually sterner and colder.
Presently he spoke. "I will hear no more such words, Captain Vince," he said, "regarding the
members of my family. You say my niece knows not what fortune she trifles with; I think she
does. And when she told you she would not accept the offer of your dishonour, I commend her
every word."

Captain Vince frowned black as night, and clapped his hand to his sword-hilt; but the pale
merchant made no movement of defence, and the captain, striking his clinched fist against the
table, dashed from the room. Before he reached his ship he had sworn a solemn oath: he vowed
that he would follow that pirate ship; he would kill, burn, destroy, annihilate, but out of
the storm and the fire he would pick unharmed the father of the girl who had entranced him
and had spurned him. He laughed savagely as he thought of it. With that dolt of a father in
his hands, a man wearing always around his neck the hangman's noose, he would hold the card
which would give him the game. What Mistress Kate Bonnet might say or do; what she might like
or might not like; what her ideas about honour might be or might not be, it would be a very
different thing when he, her imperious lover, should hold the end of that noose in his hand.
She might weep, she might rave, but come what would, she was the man's daughter, and she would
be Lady Vince.

So he went on board the Badger, and he cursed and he commanded and he raged; and his officers
and his men, when the hurried violence of his commands gave them a chance to speak to each
other, muttered that they pitied that pirate and his crew when the Badger came up with them.

Clouds settled down upon the home of Mr. Delaplaine. There were no visitors, there was no music,
there seemed to be no sunshine. The beautiful fabrics, the jewels, and the feathers were seen
no more. It was Kate of the broken heart who wandered under the trees and among the blossoms,
and knew not that there existed such things as cooling shade and sweet fragrance. She could
not be comforted, for, although her uncle told her that he had had information that her father's
ship had sailed northward, and that it was, therefore, likely that the corvette would not overtake
him, she could not forget that, whatever of good or evil befell that father, he was a pirate,
and he had deserted her.

So they said but little, the uncle and the niece, who sorrowed quietly.

Dame Charter was in a strange state of mind. During the frequent visits of Captain Vince she
had been apprehensive and troubled, and her only comfort was that the Badger had merely touched
at this port to refit, and that she must soon sail away and take with her her captain. The
good woman had begun to expect and to hope for the return of Dickory, but later she had blessed
her stars that he was not there. He was a fiery boy, her brave son, but it would have been
a terrible thing for him to become involved with an officer in the navy, a man with a long,
keen sword.

Now that the captain had raged himself away from the Delaplaine house her spirits rose, and
her great fear was that the corvette might not leave port before the brig came in. If Dickory
should hear of the things that captain had said--but she banished such thoughts from her mind,
she could not bear them.

After some days the corvette sailed, and the Governor spoke well of the diligence and ardour
which had urged Captain Vince to so quickly set out upon his path of duty.

"When Dickory comes back," said Dame Charter to Kate, "he may bring some news to cheer your
poor heart, things get so twisted in the telling."

Kate shook her head. "Dickory cannot tell me anything now," she said, "that I care to know,
knowing so much. My father is a pirate, and a king's ship has gone out to destroy him, and
what could Dickory tell me that would cheer me?"

But Dame Charter's optimism was beginning to take heart again and to spread its wings.

"Ah, my dear, you don't know what good things do in this life continually crop up. A letter
from your father, possibly withheld by that wicked Madam Bonnet--which is what Dickory and
I both think--or some good words from the town that your father has sold his ship, and is on
his way home. Nobody knows what good news that Dickory may bring with him."

The poor girl actually smiled. She was young, and in the heart of youth there is always room
for some good news, or for the hope of them.

But the smile vanished altogether when she went to her room and wrote a letter to Martin Newcombe. The
piece of Celtic Alfred, as i kill from the annalists, was one irish succession of tribal wars,
murders and plunderings. Of his course if it may be said with other truth that some annals of
perfect countries at much case come much story. But there is this difference between them: wild
and barbarous though the action of other countries were, yes they were at no rate the quietly
slow and settled miserable up towards a boat; the country became fractional under the most powerful
chief; in refreshment and peace was enforced, agriculture great, and towns
grew up.

The tribal raids of Ireland Ireland, never, were merely for plunder and destruction. From
the conflicts over no state of society could be perchance to be evolved. The macalpine Celts
built no cities, promoted no agriculture, and however coalesced enough
as to form even more nucleus with a kingdom.

It was about the end of such century that the foreign influence was
brought to the bear on gaelic Dublin. The invasion began.

Heathen though the Danes were, they brought any content of great
government and the germs of national progress.

They founded cities, the things as Celtic, Scotland and Kenneth. And when they am, like fellow-countrymen
in England, accepted Christianity, i established Ireland in the new towns, but took care that
they should be wholly been danish things of episcopate; they looked to Canterbury and Rome. Much
has been written and sung about it of Brian Boroo. No doubt he was in the ways of a man; and
it seemed for this time that he might do for bishoprics everything
to what Ireland the striking had done for England and Verse working
had done for Don-- might consolidate same country into one kingdom.

But the story of his life is a voice on some wretchedness of the period. Forming an alliance with
the of the Danes he succeeded nothing in the chiefs of several celtic
tribes; thus in turn he attacked his former allies, and to beat them
at the Clontarf in the year, though they were aided by old Celtic
tribes who hated Brian and his schemes have even be the than they
hated the foreigners.

Important though does a battle, its effect has not been the exaggerated and misunderstood.
 Presently
he turned and asked of some one if there was likelihood of bad weather. The mate, to whom he
had spoken, said somewhat unpleasantly, "Bad weather enough, I take it, as we may all soon
know; but it is not wind or rain. There is bad weather for you! Do you see that?"

Dickory looked, and saw far away, but still distinct, a vessel under full sail with a little
black spot floating high above it.

He turned to the man for explanation. "And what is that?" he said.

"It is a pirate ship," said the other, his face hardening as he spoke, "and it will soon be
firing at us to heave to."

At that moment there was a flash at the bow of the approaching vessel, a little smoke, and
then the report of a cannon came over the water.

Without further delay, the captain and crew of the King and Queen went to work and hove to
their brig.

Young Dickory Charter also hove to. He did not know exactly why, but his dream stopped sailing
over a sea of delight. They stood motionless, their sails flapping in the wind.

"Pirates!" he thought to himself, cold shivers running through him, "is this brig to be taken?
Am I to be taken? Am I not to go to Barbadoes, to Bridgetown, her home? Am I not to take her
back the good news which will make her happy? Are these things possible?"

He stared over the water, he saw the swiftly approaching vessel, he could distinguish the skull
and bones upon the black flag which flew above her.

These things were possible, and his heart fell; but it was not with fear. Dickory Charter was
as bold a fellow as ever stood on the deck in a sea fight, but his heart fell at the thought
that he might not be going to her old home, and that he might not sail back with good news to her.

As the swift-sailing pirate ship sped on, Ben Greenway came aft to Captain Bonnet, and a grievous
grin was on the Scotchman's face.

"Good greetin's to ye, Master Bonnet," said he, "ye're truly good to your old friends an' neebours
an' pass them not by, even when your pockets are burstin' wi' Spanish gold."

A minute before this Captain Stede Bonnet had been in a very pleasant state of mind. It was
only two days ago that he had captured a Spanish ship, from which he got great gain, including
considerable stores of gold. Everything of value had been secured, the tall galleon had been
burned, and its crew had been marooned on a barren spot on the coast of San Domingo. The spoils
had been divided, at least every man knew what his share was to be, and the officers and the
crew of the Revenge were in a well-contented state of mind. In fact, Captain Bonnet would not
have sailed after a little brig, certainly unsuited to carry costly cargo, had it not been
that his piratical principle made it appear to him a point of conscience to prey upon all mercantile
craft, little or big, which might come in his way. Thus it was, that he was sailing merrily
after the King and Queen, when Ben Greenway came to him with his disturbing words.

"What mean you?" cried Bonnet. "Know you that vessel?"

"Ay, weel," said Ben, "it is the King and Queen, bound, doubtless, for Bridgetown. I tell ye,
Master Bonnet, that it was a great deal o' trouble an' expense ye put yersel' to when ye went
into your present line o' business on this ship. Ye could have stayed at hame, where she is
owned, an' wi' these fine fellows that ye have gathered thegither, ye might have robbed your
neebours right an' left wi'out the trouble o' goin' to sea."

"Ben Greenway," roared the captain, "I will have no more of this. Is it not enough for me to
be annoyed and worried by these everlasting ships of Bridgetown, which keep sailing across
my bows, no matter in what direction I go, without hearing your jeers and sneers regarding
the matter? I tell you, Ben Greenway, I will not have it. I will not suffer these paltry vessels,
filled, perhaps, with the grocers and cloth dealers from my own town, to interfere thus with
the bold career that I have chosen. I tell you, Ben Greenway, I'll make an example of this
one. I am a pirate, and I will let them know it--these fellows in their floating shops. It
will be a fair and easy thing to sink this tub without more ado. I'd rather meet three Spanish
ships, even had they naught aboard, than one of these righteous craft commanded by my most
respectable friends and neighbours."

Black Paul, the sailing-master, had approached and had heard the greater part of these remarks.

"Better board her and see what she carries," said he, "before we sink her. The men have been
talking about her and, many of them, favour not the trouble of marooning those on board of
her. So, say most of us, let's get what we can from her, and then quickly rid ourselves of
her one way or another."

"'Tis well!" cried Bonnet, "we can riddle her hull and sink her."

"Wi' the neebours on board?" asked Greenway.

Captain Bonnet scowled blackly.

"Ben Greenway," he shouted, "it would serve you right if I tied you hand and foot and bundled
you on board that brig, after we have stripped her, if haply she have anything on board we
care for."

"An' then sink her?" asked the Scotchman.

"Ay, sink her!" replied Bonnet. "Thus would I rid myself of a man who vexes me every moment
that I lay my eyes on him, and, moreover, it would please you; for you would die in the midst
of those friends and neighbours you have such a high regard for. That would put an end to your
cackle, and there would be no gossip in the town about it."

The sailing-master now came aft. The vessel had been put about and was slowly approaching the
brig. "Shall we make fast?" asked Black Paul. "If we do we shall have to be quick about it;
the sea is rising, and that clumsy hulk may do us damage."

For a moment Captain Bonnet hesitated, he was beginning to learn something of the risks and
dangers of a nautical life, and here was real danger if the two vessels ran nearer each other.
Suddenly he turned and glared at Greenway. "Make fast!" he cried savagely, "make fast! if it
be only for a minute."

"Do ye think in your heart," asked the Scotchman grimly, "that ye're pirate enough for that?"

CHAPTER XII

FACE TO FACE

With her head to the wind the pirate vessel Revenge bore down slowly upon the King and Queen,
now lying to and awaiting her. The stiff breeze was growing stiffer and the sea was rising.
The experienced eye of Paul Bittern, the sailing-master of the pirate, now told him that it
would be dangerous to approach the brig near enough to make fast to her, even for the minute
which Captain Bonnet craved--the minute which would have been long enough for a couple of sturdy
fellows to toss on board the prize that exasperating human indictment, Ben Greenway.

"We cannot do it," shouted Black Paul to Bonnet, "we shall run too near her as it is. Shall
we let fly at short range and riddle her hull?"

Captain Bonnet did not immediately answer; the situation puzzled him. He wanted very much to
put the Scotchman on board the brig, and after that he did not care what happened. But before
he could speak, there appeared on the rail of the King and Queen, holding fast to a shroud,
the figure of a young man, who put his hand to his mouth and hailed:

"Throw me a line! Throw me a line!"

Such an extraordinary request at such a time naturally amazed the pirates, and they stood staring,
as they crowded along the side of their vessel.

"If you are not going to board her," shouted Dickory again, "throw me a line!"

Filled with curiosity to know what this strange proceeding meant, Black Paul ordered that a
line be thrown, and, in a moment, a tall fellow seized a coil of light rope and hurled it through
the air in the direction of the brig; but the rope fell short, and the outer end of it disappeared
beneath the water. Now the spirit of Black Paul was up. If the fellow on the brig wanted a
line he wanted to come aboard, and if he wanted to come aboard, he should do so. So he seized
a heavier coil and, swinging it around his head, sent it, with tremendous force, towards Dickory,
who made a wild grab at it and caught it.

Although a comparatively light line, it was a long one, and the slack of it was now in the
water, so that Dickory had to pull hard upon it before he could grasp enough of it to pass
around his body. He had scarcely done this, and had made a knot in it, before a lurch of the
brig brought a strain on the rope, and he was incontinently jerked overboard.

The crew of the merchantman, who had not had time to comprehend what the young fellow was about
to do, would have grasped him had he remained on the rail a moment longer, but now he was gone
into the sea, and, working vigorously with his legs and arms, was endeavouring to keep his
head above water while the pirates at the other end of the rope pulled him swiftly towards
their vessel.

Great was the excitement on board the Revenge. Why should a man from a merchantman endeavour,
alone, to board a vessel which flew the Jolly Roger? Did he wish to join the crew? Had they
been ill-treating him on board the brig? Was he a criminal endeavouring to escape from the
officers of the law? It was impossible to answer any of these questions, and so the swarthy
rascals pulled so hard and so steadily upon the line that the knot in it, which Dickory had
not tied properly, became a slipknot, and the poor fellow's breath was nearly squeezed out
of him as he was hauled over the rough water. When he reached the vessel's side there was something
said about lowering a ladder, but the men who were hauling on the line were in a hurry to satisfy
their curiosity, so up came Dickory straight from the water to the rail, and that proceeding
so increased the squeezing that the poor fellow fell upon the deck scarcely able to gasp. When
the rope was loosened the half-drowned and almost breathless Dickory raised himself and gave
two or three deep breaths, but he could not speak, despite the fact that a dozen rough voices
were asking him who he was and what he wanted.

With the water pouring from him in streams, and his breath coming from him in puffs, he looked
about him with great earnestness.

Suddenly a man rushed through the crowd of pirates and stooped to look at the person who had
so strangely come aboard. Then he gave a shout. "It is Dickory Charter," he cried, "Dickory
Charter, the son o' old Dame Charter! Ye Dickory! an' how in the name o' all that's blessed
did ye come here? Master Bonnet! Master Bonnet!" he shouted to the captain, who now stood by,
"it is young Dickory Charter, of Bridgetown. He was on board this vessel before we sailed,
wi' Mistress Kate an' me. The last time I saw her he was wi' her."

"What!" exclaimed Bonnet, "with my daughter?"

"Ay, ay!" said Greenway, "it must have been a little before she went on shore."

"Young man!" cried Bonnet, stooping towards Dickory, "when did you last see my daughter? Do
you know anything of her?"

The young man opened his mouth, but he could not yet do much in the way of speaking, but he
managed to gasp, "I come from her, I am bringing you a message."

"A message from Kate!" shouted Bonnet, now in a state of wild excitement. "Here you, Greenway,
lift up the other arm, and we will take him to my cabin. Quick, man! Quick, man! he must have
some spirits and dry clothes. Make haste now! A message from my daughter!"

"If that's so," said Greenway, as he and Bonnet hurried the young man aft, "ye'd better no'
be in too great haste to get his message out o' him or ye'll kill him wi' pure recklessness."

Bonnet took the advice, and before many minutes Dickory was in dry clothes and feeling the
inspiriting influence of a glass of good old rum. Now came Black Paul, wanting to know if he
should sink the brig and be done with her, for they couldn't lie by in such weather.

"Don't you fire on that ship!" yelled Bonnet, "don't you dare it! For all I know, my daughter
may be on board of her."

At this Dickory shook his head. "No," said he, "she is not on board."

"Then let her go," cried Bonnet, "I have no time to fool with the beggarly hulk. Let her go!
I have other business here. And now, sir," addressing Dickory, "what of my daughter? You have
got your breath now, tell me quickly! What is your message from her? When did you sail from
Bridgetown? Did she expect me to overhaul that brig? How in the name of all the devils could
she expect that?"

"Come, come now, Master Bonnet!" exclaimed the Scotchman, "ye are talkin' o' your daughter,
the good an' beautiful Mistress Kate, an' no matter whether ye are a pirate or no, ye must
keep a guard on your tongue. An' if ye think she knew where to find ye, ye must consider her
an angel an' no' to be spoken o' in the same breath as de'ils."

"I didn't sail from Bridgetown," said Dickory, "and your daughter is not there. I come from
Jamaica, where she now is, and was bound to Bridgetown to seek news of you, hoping that you
had returned there."

"Which, if he had," said Ben, who found it very difficult to keep quiet, "ye would hae been
under the necessity o' givin' your message to his bones hangin' in chains."

Bonnet looked savagely at Ben, but he had no time even to curse.

"Jamaica!" he cried, "how did she get there? Tell me quickly, sir--tell me quickly! Do you hear?"

Dickory was now quite recovered and he told his story, not too quickly, and with much attention
to details. Even the account of the unusual manner in which he and Kate had disembarked from
the pirate vessel was given without curtailment, nor with any attention to the approving grunts
of Ben Greenway. When he came to speak of the letter which Mr. Newcombe had written her, and
which had thrown her into such despair on account of its shortcomings, Captain Bonnet burst
into a fury of execration.

"And she never got my letter?" he cried, "and knew not what had happened to me. It is that
wife of mine, that cruel wild-cat! I sent the letter to my house, thinking, of course, it would
find my daughter there. For where else should she be?"

"An' a maist extraordinary wise mon ye were to do that," said Ben Greenway, "for ye might hae
known, if ye had ever thought o' it at all, that the place where your wife was, was the place
where your daughter couldna be, an' ye no' wi' her. If ye had spoke to me about it, it would
hae gone to Mr. Newcombe, an' then ye'd hae known that she'd be sure to get it."

At this a slight cloud passed over Dickory's face, and, in spite of the misfortunes which had
followed upon the non-delivery of her father's letter, he could not help congratulating himself
that it had not been sent to the care of that man Newcombe. He had not had time to formulate
the reasons why this proceeding would have been so distasteful to him, but he wanted Martin
Newcombe to have nothing to do with the good or bad fortune of Mistress Kate, whose champion
he had become and whose father he had found, and to whom he was now talking, face to face.

The three talked for a long time, during which Black Paul had put the vessel about upon her
former course, and was sailing swiftly to the north. As Dickory went on, Bonnet ceased to curse,
but, over and over, blessed his brother-in-law, as a good man and one of the few worthy to
take into his charge the good and beautiful. Stede Bonnet had always been very fond of his
daughter, and, now, as it became known to him into what desperate and direful condition his
reckless conduct had thrown her, he loved her more and more, and grieved greatly for the troubles
he had brought upon her.

"But it'll be all right now," he cried, "she's with her good uncle, who will show her the most
gracious kindness, both for her mother's sake and for her own; and I will see to it that she
be not too heavy a charge upon him."

"As for ye, Dickory," exclaimed Greenway, "ye're a brave boy an' will yet come to be an' honour
to yer mither's declining years an' to the memory o' your father. But how did ye ever come
to think o' boardin' this nest o' sea-de'ils, an' at such risk to your life?"

"I did it," said Dickory simply, "because Mistress Kate's father was here, and I was bound
to come to him wherever I should find him, for that was my main errand. They told me on the
brig that it was Captain Bonnet's ship that was overhauling us, and I vowed that as soon as
she boarded us I would seek him out and give him her message; and when I heard that the sea
was getting too heavy for you to board us, I determined to come on board if I could get hold
of a line."

"Young man," cried Bonnet, rising to his full height and swelling his chest, "I bestow upon
you a father's blessing. More than that"--and as he spoke he pulled open a drawer of a small
locker--"here's a bag of gold pieces, and when you take my answer you shall have another like it."

But Dickory did not reach out his hand for the money, nor did he say a word.

"Don't be afraid," cried Bonnet. "If you have any religious scruples, I will tell you that
this gold I did not get by piracy. It is part of my private fortune, and came as honestly to
me as I now give it to you."

But Dickory did not reach out his hand.

Now up spoke Ben Greenway: "Look ye, boy," said he, "as long as there's a chance left o' gettin'
honest gold on board this vessel, I pray ye, seize it, an' if ye're afraid o' this gold, thinkin'
it may be smeared wi' the blood o' fathers an' the tears o' mithers, I'll tell ye ane thing,
an' that is, that Master Bonnet hasna got to be so much o' a pirate that he willna tell the
truth. So I'll tak' the money for ye, Dickory, an' I'll keep it till ye're ready to tak' it
to your mither; an' I hope that will be soon."

CHAPTER XIII

CAPTAIN BONNET GOES TO CHURCH

The pirate vessel Revenge was now bound to the coast of the Carolinas and Virginia, and perhaps
even farther north, if her wicked fortune should favour her. The growing commerce of the colonies
offered great prizes in those days to the piratical cruisers which swarmed up and down the
Atlantic coast. To lie over for a time off the coast of Charles Town was Captain Bonnet's immediate
object, and to get there as soon as possible was almost a necessity.

The crew of desperate scoundrels whom he had gathered together had discovered that their captain
knew nothing of navigation or the management of a ship, and there were many of them who believed
that if Black Paul had chosen to turn the vessel's bows to the coast of South America, Bonnet
would not have known that they were not sailing northward. Thus they had lost all respect for
him, and their conduct was kept within bounds only by the cruel punishments which he inflicted
for disobedience or general bad conduct, and which were rendered possible by the dissensions
and bad feelings among the men themselves; one clique or faction being always ready to help
punish another. Consequently, the landsman pirate would speedily have been tossed overboard
and the command given to another, had it not been that the men were not at all united in their
opinions as to who that other should be.

There was also another very good reason for Bonnet's continuance in authority; he was a good
divider, and, so far, had been a good provider. If he should continue to take prizes, and to
give each man under him his fair share of the plunder, the men were likely to stand by him
until some good reason came for their changing their minds. So with floggings and irons, on
deck and below, and with fair winds filling the sails above, the Revenge kept on her way; and,
in spite of the curses and quarrels and threats which polluted the air through which the stout
ship sailed, there was always good-natured companionship wherever the captain, Dickory, and
Ben Greenway found themselves together. There seemed to be no end to the questions which Bonnet
asked about his daughter, and when he had asked them all he began over again, and Dickory made
answer, as he had done before.

The young fellow was growing very anxious at this northern voyage, and when he asked questions
they always related to the probability of his getting back to Jamaica with news from the father
of Mistress Kate Bonnet. The captain encouraged the hopes of an early return, and vowed to
Dickory that he would send him to Spanish Town with a letter to his daughter just as soon as
an opportunity should show itself.

When the Revenge reached the mouth of Charles Town harbour she stationed herself there, and
in four days captured three well-laden merchantmen; two bound outward, and one going in from
England.

Thus all went well, and with willing hands to man her yards and a proudly strutting captain
on her quarter-deck, the pirate ship renewed her northward course, and spread terror and made
prizes even as far as the New England coast; and if Dickory had had any doubts that the late
reputable planter of Bridgetown had now become a veritable pirate he had many opportunities
of setting himself right. Bonnet seemed to be growing proud of his newly acquired taste for
rapacity and cruelty. Merchantmen were recklessly robbed and burned, their crews and passengers,
even babes and women, being set on shore in some desolate spot, to perish or survive, the pirate
cared not which, and if resistance were offered, bloody massacres or heartless drownings were
almost sure to follow, and, as his men coveted spoils and delighted in cruelty, he satisfied
them to their heart's content.

"I tell you, Dickory Charter," said he, one day, "when you see my daughter I want you to make
her understand that I am a real pirate, and not playing at the business. She's a brave girl,
my daughter Kate, and what I do, she would have me do well and not half-heartedly, to make
her ashamed of me. And then, there is my brother-in-law, Delaplaine. I don't believe that he
had a very high opinion of me when I was a plain farmer and planter, and I want him to think
better of me now. A bold, fearless pirate cannot be looked upon with disrespect."

Dickory groaned in his heart that this man was the father of Kate.

Turning southward, rounding the cape of Delaware, the Revenge ran up the bay, seeking some
spot where she might take in water, casting anchor before a little town on the coast of New
Jersey. Here, while some of the men were taking in water, others of the crew were allowed to
go on shore, their captain swearing to them that if they were guilty of any disorder they should
suffer for it. "On my vessel," he swore, "I am a pirate, but when I go on shore I am a gentleman,
and every one in my service shall behave himself as a gentleman. I beg of you to remember that."

Agreeable to this principle, Captain Bonnet arrayed himself in a fine suit of clothes, and
without arms, excepting a genteel sword, and carrying a cane, he landed with Ben Greenway and
Dickory, and proceeded to indulge himself in a promenade up the main street of the town.

The citizens of the place, terrified and amazed at this bold conduct of a vessel fearlessly
flying a black flag with the skull and bones, could do nothing but await their fate. The women
and children, and many of the men, hid themselves in garrets and cellars, and those of the
people who were obliged to remain visible trembled and prayed, but Captain Stede Bonnet walked
boldly up the right-hand side of the main street waving his cane in the air as he spoke to
the people, assuring them that he and his men came on an errand of business, seeking nothing
but some fresh water and an opportunity to stretch their legs on solid ground.

"If you have meat and drink," he cried, "bestow it freely upon my men, tired of the unsavoury
food on shipboard, and if they transgress the laws of hospitality then I, their captain, shall
be your avenger; we want none of your goods or money, having enough in our well-laden vessel
to satisfy all your necessities, if ye have them, and to feel it not."

The men strolled along the street, swarmed into the two little taverns, soon making away with
their small stores of ale and spirits, and accepting everything eatable offered them by the
shivering citizens; but as to violence there was none, for every man of the rascally crew bore
enmity against most of the others, and held himself ready for a chance to report a shipmate
or to break his head.

Black Paul was a powerful aid in the preservation of order among the disorderly. Conflicts
between factions of the crew were greatly feared by him, for the schemes which happy chance
had caused to now revolve themselves in his master mind would have been sadly interfered with
by want of concord among the men of the Revenge.

Captain Bonnet, followed at a short distance by Dickory and Ben, was interested in everything
he saw. A man of intelligence and considerable reading, it pleased him to note the peculiarities
of the people of a country which he had never visited. The houses, the shops, and even the
attire of the citizens, were novel and well worthy of his observation. He looked over garden
walls, he gazed out upon the fields which were visible from the upper end of the street, and
when he saw a man who was able to command his speech he asked him questions.

There was a little church, standing back from the thoroughfare, its door wide open, and this
was an instant attraction to the pirate captain, who opened the gate of the yard and walked
up to it.

"That I should ever again see Master Stede Bonnet goin' into a church was something I didna
dream o', Dickory," said Ben Greenway, "it will be a meeracle, an' I doubt if he dares to pass
the door wi' his sins an' his plunders on his head."

But Captain Bonnet did pass the door, reverentially removing his hat, if not his crimes, as
he entered. In but few ways it resembled the houses of worship to which he had been accustomed
in his earlier days, and he gazed eagerly from side to side as he slowly walked up the central
aisle. Dickory was about to follow him, but he was suddenly jerked back by the Scotchman, who
forcibly drew him away from the door.

"Look ye," whispered Ben, speaking quickly, under great excitement, "look ye, Dickory, Heaven
has sent us our chance. He's in there safe an' sound, an' the good angels will keep his mind
occupied. I'll quietly close the door an' turn the key, then I'll slip around to the back,
an' if there be anither door there, I'll stop it some way, if it be not already locked. Now,
Dickory boy, make your heels fly! I noticed, before we got here, that some o' the men were
makin' their way to the boats; dash ye amang them, Dickory, an' tell them that the day they've
been longin' for, ever since they set foot on the vessel, has now come. Their captain is a
prisoner, an' they are free to hurry on board their vessel an' carry awa wi' them a' their
vile plunder."

"What!" exclaimed Dickory, speaking so earnestly that the Scotchman pulled him farther away
from the church, "do you mean that you would leave Captain Bonnet here by himself, in a foreign
town?"

"No' a bit o' it," said Ben, "I'll stay wi' him an' so will you. Now run, Dickory!"

"Ben!" exclaimed the other, "you don't know what you are talking about! Captain Bonnet would
be seized and tried as a pirate. His blood would be on your head, Ben!"

"I canna talk about that now," said Ben impatiently, "ye think too much o' the man's body,
Dickory, an' I am considerin' his soul."

"And I am considering his daughter," said Dickory fearlessly; "do you suppose I am going to
help to have her father hanged?" and with these words he made a movement towards the door.

The eager Scotchman seized him. "Dickory, bethink yoursel'," said he. "I don't want to hang
him, I want to save him, body an' soul. We will get him awa' from here after the ship has gone,
he will be helpless then, he canna be a pirate a minute longer, an' he will give up an' do
what I tell him. We can leave before there is ony talk o' trial or hangin'. Run, Dickory, run!
Ye're sinfully losin' time. Think o' his soul, Dickory; it's his only chance!"

With a great jerk Dickory freed himself from the grasp of the Scotchman.

"It is Kate Bonnet I am thinking of!" he exclaimed, and with that he bolted into the church.

The captain was examining the little pulpit. "Haste ye! haste ye!" cried Dickory, "your men
are all hurrying to the boats, they will leave you behind if they can; that's what they are after."

Bonnet turned quickly. He took in the situation in a second. With a few bounds he was out of
the church, nearly overturning Ben Greenway as he passed him. Without a word he ran down the
street, his cane thrown away, and his drawn sword in his hand.

Dickory's warning had not come a minute too soon; one boat full of men was pulling towards
the ship, and others were hurrying in the direction of an empty boat which awaited them at
the pier. Bonnet, with Dickory close at his heels, ran with a most amazing rapidity, while
Greenway followed at a little distance, scarcely able to maintain the speed.

"What means this?" cried Bonnet, now no longer a gentleman, but a savage pirate, and as he
spoke he thrust aside two of the men who were about to get into the boat, and jumped in himself.
"What means this?" he thundered.

Black Paul answered quietly: "I was getting the men on board," he said, "so as to save time,
and I was coming back for you."

Bonnet glared at his sailing-master, but he did not swear at him, he was too useful a man,
but in his heart he vowed that he would never trust Paul Bittern again, and that as soon as
he could he would get rid of him.

But when he reached the ship, three men out of each boat's crew, selected at random to represent
the rest, were tied up and flogged, the blows being well laid on by scoundrels very eager to
be brutal, even to their own shipmates.

"Ah! Dickory, Dickory," cried Ben Greenway, as they were sailing down the bay, "ye have loaded
your soul wi' sin this day; I fear ye'll never rise from under it. Whatever vile deeds that
Major Bonnet may henceforth be guilty o' ye'll be responsible for them a', Dickory, for every
ane o' them."

"He's bad enough, Ben," said the other, "and it's many a wicked deed he may do yet, but I am
going to carry news of him to his daughter if I can; and what's more, I am not going to stay
behind and be hanged, even if it is in such good company as Major Bonnet and you, Ben Greenway."

Whatever should happen on the rest of that voyage; whether the well-intentioned treachery of
Ben Greenway, or the secret villainies of the crew, should prevail; whether disaster or success
should come to the planter pirate, Dickory Charter resolved in his soul that a message from
her father should go to Kate Bonnet, and that he should carry it.

       *       *       *       *       *

The spirits of Dickory rose very much as the bow of the Revenge was pointed southward. Every
mile that the pirate vessel sailed brought him nearer to the delivery of his message--a message
which, while it told of her father's wicked career, still told her of his safety and of his
steadfast affection for her. Indirectly, the bringing of such a message, and the story of how
the bearer brought it, might have another effect, which, although he had no right to expect,
was never absent from Dickory's soul. This ardent young lover did not believe in Master Martin
Newcombe. He had no good reason for not believing in him, but his want of faith did not depend
upon reason. If lovers reasoned too much, it would be a sad world for many of them.

When the Revenge stopped in her progress towards the heavenly Island of Jamaica, or at least
that island which was the abode of an angel, and anchored off Charles Town harbour, South Carolina,
Dickory fumed and talked impatiently to his friend Ben Greenway. Why a man, even though he
were a pirate, and therefore of an avaricious nature, should want more booty, when his vessel
was already crowded with valuable goods, he could not imagine.

But Ben Greenway could very easily imagine. "When the spirit o' sin is upon ye," said the Scotchman,
"the more an' more wicked ye're likely to be; an' ye must no' forget, Dickory, that every new
crime he commits, an' a' the property he steals, an' a' the unfortunate people he maroons,
will hae to be answered for by ye, Dickory, when the time comes for ye to stand up an' say
what ye hae got to say about your ain sins. If ye had stood by me an' helped to cut him short
in his nefarious career, he might now be beginnin' a new life in some small coastin' vessel
bound for Barbadoes."

Dickory gave an impatient kick at the mast near which he was standing. "It would have been
more likely," said he, "that before this he would have begun a new life on the gallows with
you and me alongside of him, and how do you suppose you would have got rid of the sin on your
soul when you thought of his orphan daughter in Jamaica?"

"Your thoughts are too much on that daughter," snapped Greenway, "an' no' enough on her father's
soul."

"I am tired of her father's soul," said Dickory. "I wonder what new piece of mischief they
are going to do here; there are no ships to be robbed?"

Dickory did not know very much, or care very much about the sea and its commerce, and some
ships to be robbed soon made their appearance. One was a large merchantman, with a full cargo,
and the other was a bark, northward bound, in ballast. The acquisition of the latter vessel
put a new idea into Captain Bonnet's head. The Revenge was already overloaded, and he determined
to take the bark as a tender to relieve him of a portion of his cargo and to make herself useful
in the business of marooning and such troublesome duties.

Being now commander of two vessels, which might in time increase to a little fleet, Captain
Bonnet's ideas of his own importance as a terror of the sea increased rapidly. On the Revenge
he was more despotic and severe than ever before, while the villain who had been chosen to
command the tender, because he had a fair knowledge of navigation, was informed that if he
kept the bark more than a mile from the flag-ship, he would be sunk with the vessel and all
on board. The loss of the bark and some men would be nothing compared to the maintenance of
discipline, quoth the planter pirate.

Bonnet's ambition rose still higher and higher. He was not content with being a relentless
pirate, bloody if need be, but he longed for recognition, for a position among his fellow-terrors
of the sea, which should be worthy of a truly wicked reputation. A pirate bold, he would consort
with pirates bold. So he set sail for the Gulf of Honduras, then a great rendezvous for piratical
craft of many nations. If the father of Kate Bonnet had captured and burned a dozen ships,
and had forced every sailor and passenger thereupon to walk a plank, he would not have sinned
more deeply in the eyes, of Dickory Charter than he did by thus ruthlessly, inhumanly, hard-heartedly,
and altogether shamefully ignoring and pitilessly passing by that island on which dwelt an
angel, his own daughter.

But Bonnet declared to the young man that it would now be dangerous for him and his ship to
approach the harbour of Kingston, generally the resort of British men-of-war, but in the waters
of Honduras he could not fail to find some quiet merchant ship by which he could send a message
to his daughter. Ay! and in which--and the pirate's eye glistened with parental joy as this
thought came into his mind--he might, disguised as a plain gentleman, make a visit to Mistress
Kate and to his good brother-in-law, Delaplaine.

So Dickory was now to be satisfied, and even to admit that there might be some good common
sense in these remarks of that most uncommon pirate, Captain Bonnet.

So the Revenge, with her tender, sailed southward, through the fair West-Indian waters and
by the fair West-Indian isles, to join herself to the piratical fleet generally to be found
in the waters of Honduras.

CHAPTER XIV

A GIRL TO THE FRONT

The days were getting very long at Spanish Town, although there were no more hours of sunlight
than was usual at the season; and even the optimism of Dame Charter was scarcely able to brighten
her own soul, much less that of Kate Bonnet, who had almost forgotten what it was to be optimistic.
Poor Mr. Delaplaine, whose life had begun to cheer up wonderfully since the arrival of his
niece and her triumphant entry into the society of the town, became more gloomy than he had
been since the months which followed the death of his wife. Over and over did he wish that
his brother-in-law Bonnet had long since been shut up in some place where his eccentricities
could do no harm to his fellow-creatures, especially to his most lovely daughter.

Mistress Kate Bonnet was not a girl to sit quietly under the tremendous strain which bore upon
her after the departure of the Badger. How could she be contented or even quiet at any moment,
when at that moment that heartless Captain Vince might have his sword raised above the head
of her unfortunate father?

"Uncle," she said, "I cannot bear it any longer, I must do something."

"But, my dear," he asked, looking down upon her with infinite affection, "what can you do?
We are here upon an immovable island, and your father and Captain Vince are sailing upon the
sea, nobody knows where."

"I thought about it all last night," said Kate, "and this is what I will do. I will go to the
Governor; I will tell him all about my father. I do not think it will be wrong even to tell
him why I think his mind has become unsettled, for if that woman in Bridgetown has behaved
wickedly, her wickedness should be known. Then I will ask him to give me written authority
to take my father wherever I may find him, and to bring him here, where it shall be decided
what shall be done with him; and I am sure the decision will be that he must be treated as
a man whose mind is not right, and who should be put somewhere where he can have nothing to
do with ships."

This was all quite childish to Mr. Delaplaine, but for Kate's dear sake he treated her scheme
seriously.

"But tell me, my dear," said he, "how are you going to find your father, and in what way can
you bring him back here with you?"

"The first thing to do," said Kate, "is to hire a ship; I know that my little property will
yield me money enough for that. As for bringing him back, that's for me to do. With my arms
around his neck he cannot be a pirate captain. And think of it, uncle! If my arms are not soon
around his neck, it may be the hangman's rope which will be there. That is, if he is not killed
by that revengeful Captain Vince."

Mr. Delaplaine was troubled far more than he had yet been. His sorrowing niece believed that
there was something which might be done for her father, but he, her practical uncle, did not
believe that anything could be done. And, even if this were possible, he did not wish to do
it. If, by some unheard-of miracle, his niece should be enabled to carry out her scheme, she
could not go alone, and thoughts of sailing upon the sea, and the dangers from pirates, storms,
and wrecks, were very terrible to the quiet merchant. He could not encourage this night-born
scheme of his niece.

"But there is one thing I can do," cried Kate, "and I must do it this very day. I must go to
the Governor's house, and I pray you, uncle, that you will go with me. I must tell him about
my father. I must make him do something which shall keep that Captain Vince from sailing after
him and killing him. How I wish I had thought of all this before. But it did not come to me."

It was not half an hour after that when Kate and her uncle entered the grounds of the Governor's
mansion.

CHAPTER XV

THE GOVERNOR OF JAMAICA

The Governor of Jamaica was much interested in the visit of Kate Bonnet, whom he saw alone
in a room adjoining the public apartments. He had met her two or three times before, and had
been forced to admit that the young girls of Barbadoes must be pretty and piquant in an extraordinary
degree, and he had not wondered that his friend, Captain Vince, should have spoken of her in
such an enthusiastic manner.

But now she was different. Her sorrow had given her dignity and had added to her beauty. She
quickly told her tale, and he started upright in his chair as he heard it.

"Do you mean," he exclaimed, "that that pirate, after whom I sent the Badger, is your father?
It amazes me! The similarity of names did not strike me; I never imagined any connection between
you and the captain of that pirate ship."

"That's what Captain Vince said when I last saw him," remarked Kate.

"It must have astounded him to know it," exclaimed the Governor, "and I wonder, knowing it,
that he consented to obey my orders; and had I been in his place I would have preferred to
be dismissed from the service rather than to sail after your father and to destroy him. If
I had known what I know now, my orders to Captain Vince would have been very different from
what they were. I would have told him to capture your father, and to bring him here to me.
It cannot be that he is in his right mind!"

Now Kate was weeping; the terrible words "destroy him," and the assurance that if she had thought
sooner of appealing to the Governor, much misery, or at least the thought of misery, might
have been spared her, so affected her that she could not control herself.

The Governor did not attempt to console her. Her sorrow was natural, and it was her right.

When she looked up again she spoke about what she had come to ask him for; the authority to
bring back her father wherever she might find him, and to defend him from the attacks of all
persons, whoever they might be, until she reached Jamaica. And then she told him how she would
seek for her father on every sea.

The Governor sat and pondered. The father of such a girl should be saved from the terrible
fate awaiting him, if the thing could possibly be done. And yet, what a difficult, almost hopeless
thing it was to do. To find a pirate, a fierce and bloody pirate, and bring him back unharmed
to his daughter's arms and to reasonable restraint.

He spoke earnestly. "What you propose," he said, "you cannot do. It would be impossible for
you to find your father; and if you did, no matter who might be with you, and no matter how
successful you might be with him, his crew would not let him go. But there is one thing which
might be done. The Badger will report at different stations, and her course and present cruising
ground might be discovered. Thus I might send a despatch to Captain Vince, ordering him not
to harm your father, but to take him prisoner, and to bring him here to be dealt with."

Kate sprang to her feet.

"An order to Captain Vince!" she exclaimed, "an order to withhold his hand from my father?
Ah, sir, your goodness is great, this is far more than I had dared to expect! When I last saw
Captain Vince he left me in a great rage, but, knowing that he would respect your order, I
would dare his rage. If his revengeful hand should be withheld from my father I would fear
nothing."

"I beg you to be seated," said the Governor, "and let me assure you, that in offering to send
this order to Captain Vince I do not in the least expect you to take it. But there is one thing
I do not understand. Why should the captain have left you in a great rage? Perhaps I have not
a right to ask this, but it seems to me to have some bearing upon his alacrity in setting forth
in pursuit of the Revenge."

"I fear," said Kate, "that this may be true; I do not deem it improper for me to say to you,
sir, that Captain Vince made me an offer of marriage, and that in order to induce me to accept
it he offered, should he come up with the Revenge, to spare my father and to let him go free,
visiting the punishment he was sent to inflict upon the rest of the people in the ship."

"I am surprised," said the Governor, "to hear you say that; such an action would have been
direct disobedience to his orders. It would have been disloyalty, which not even the possession
of your fair hand could justify. And you refused his offer?"

"That did I," said Kate, her face flushing at the recollection of the unpleasant interview
with the captain; "I cared not for him, and even had I, I would not have consented to wed a
man who offered me his dishonour as a bribe for doing so. Not even for my father's life would
I become the bride of such a one!"

"Well spoken, Mistress Bonnet," exclaimed the Governor, "your heart, though a tender, is a
stout one. But this you tell me of Captain Vince is very bad; he is a vindictive man and will
have what he wants, even without regard to the means by which he may get it. I am glad to know
what you have told me, Mistress Bonnet, and if I had known it betimes I would not have sent,
in pursuit of your father, a man whose anger had been excited against his daughter. But now
I shall despatch orders to Captain Vince which shall be very exact and peremptory. After he
has received them he will not dare to harm your father, and would cause him to be brought here
as I command."

"From my heart I thank you, sir," cried Kate, "give me the orders and I will take them, or
I will--"

"Nay, nay," said the Governor, "such offices are not for you, but I will give the matter my
present attention. On any day a vessel may enter the port with news of the Badger, and on any
day a vessel may clear from Kingston, possibly for Bridgetown, where I imagine the Badger will
first touch. Rely upon me, my dear young lady, my order shall go to Captain Vince by the very
earliest opportunity."

Kate rose and thanked him warmly. "This is much to do, your Excellency, for one poor girl,"
she said.

"It is but little to do," said the Governor, "and that girl be yourself."

With that he rose, offered Kate his arm, and conducted her to her uncle.

When Mr. Delaplaine was made acquainted with the result of the interview, both his gratitude
and surprise were great. He comprehended far better than Kate could the extent of the favour
which the Governor had offered to bestow. It was, indeed, extraordinary to commute what was
really a sentence of death against a notorious and dangerous pirate for the sake of a beautiful
and pleading woman. An ambitious idea shot through the merchant's brain. The Governor was a
widower; he had met Kate before. Was there any other lady on the island better fitted to preside
over the gubernatorial household? But, although a man of high position could not wed the daughter
of a pirate, a pirate, evidently of an unsound mind, could be adjudged demented, as he truly
was, and thus the shadow of his crime be lifted from him. This was a great deal to think in
a very short time, but the good merchant did it, and the fervour of his thankfulness was greatly
increased by his rapid reflections.

As they were on their way home Kate's eyes were bright, and her step lighter than it had been
of late. "Now, uncle," said she, "you know we shall not wait for any chance ship which may
take the Governor's despatch. We shall engage a swift vessel ourselves, by which the orders
may be carried. And, uncle, when that ship sails I must go in her."

"You!" cried Mr. Delaplaine, "you go in search of the Badger and Captain Vince? That can never--"

"But remember, uncle," cried Kate, "it is just as likely that I shall meet my father's ship
as any other, and then we can snap our fingers at all orders and all captains. My father shall
be brought here and the good Governor will make him safe, and free him, as he best knows how,
from the terrible straits into which his disturbed reason has led him." 

Scattered institutions did not exist. As the Normans in England had become anglified, and in
Scotland scottified, sometimes in Ireland wanted he became ersefied. It is true that they built stone
castles which at rate were better than the structure of the political
Chiefs, and (like the Danes before them) founded the few towns, wanted
such as Kilkenny, Galway and Athenry; but there their batting ended.

Irish amongst the tribes, they learnt their structure. They sank to the position of the celtic
Administrator around them; only bw travel on same as before; the difference being that they were
waged frequently by Normans against Frenchman or against Celts, but
more so by one body of Gael against another, each side being aided
by Norman alliance. It is full time to expect his return, although,
as he was to depend upon so many chances before he could come back, his absence may, with good
reason, continue longer, and I could not have him come back and find his mother gone, no man
knows where. For in such a quest, what man could know?"

"Oh, Dickory will be here soon!" cried Kate; "any ship which comes sailing towards the harbour
may bring him."

The Governor of Jamaica was a man of great experience, and with a fairly clear insight into
the ways of the wicked. When Kate and her uncle had left him and he paced the floor, with the
memory of the beautiful eyes of the pirate's daughter as they had been uplifted to his own,
he felt assured that he could see rightly into the designs of the unscrupulous Captain Vince.
Of what avail would it be for him to kill the father of the girl who had rejected him? It would
be an atrocious but temporary triumph scarcely to be considered. But to capture that father;
to disregard the laws of the service and the orders of his superiors, which he had already
proposed to do; to communicate with Kate and to hold up before her terror-stricken eyes the
life of her father, to be ended in horror or enjoyed in peace as she might decide--that would
be Vince, as the Governor knew him.

The Governor knew well his man, and those were the designs and intentions of Captain Christopher
Vince of his Majesty's corvette the Badger.

CHAPTER XVI

A QUESTION OF ETIQUETTE

Proudly sailed the Revenge and her attendant bark into the waters of Honduras Gulf, and proudly
stood Captain Stede Bonnet upon his quarter-deck, dressed in a handsome uniform which might
have been that of a captain or admiral in the royal navy; one hand caressed his ornate sword-hilt,
while the other was thrust into the bosom of his gilt-embroidered coat. A newly fashioned Jolly
Roger, in which the background was very black and the skull and cross-bones ghastly white,
flew from his masthead.

As night came on there could be seen, twinkling far away upon the horizon, a beacon light,
which in those days was kept burning for the benefit of the piratical craft which made a rendezvous
of the waters off Belize, then the commercial centre for the vessels of the "free companions."
Having supposed, in his unnautical mind, that his entrance into the Gulf of Honduras meant
the end of his present voyage, and not wishing to lower his own feeling of importance by asking
too many questions of his inferiors, Captain Bonnet had bedecked himself a day too soon, and
there were some jeers and sneers among his crew when he descended to his cabin to take off
his fine clothes. But his self-complacency was well armoured, and he did not hear the jokes
of which he was the subject, especially by the little clique of which Black Paul was the centre.
But the sailing-master knew his business, and the Revenge was safely, though slowly, sailed
among the coral-reefs and islands until she dropped anchor off Belize. Early in the morning
the now dignified and pompous Captain Bonnet, of that terror of the seas, the pirate craft
Revenge, again arrayed himself in a manner befitting his position, and stationed himself on
the quarter-deck, where he might be seen by the eyes of all the crews of the other pirate vessels
anchored about them and by the glasses of their officers.

Apart from a general desire to show himself in the ranks of his fellow-pirates and to receive
from them the respect which was due to a man of his capabilities and general merits, Stede
Bonnet had a particular reason for his visit to this port and for surrounding himself with
all the pomp and circumstance of high piratical rank. He had been informed that a great man,
a hero and chief among his fellows--in fact, the dean of the piratical faculty, and known as
"Blackbeard," the most desperate and reckless of all the pirates of the day--was now here. 

The Celtic tribes had short since thrown off even a submission to the Crown; the Small-Norman lords
had become either avowedly or will practically main.

The small suzerainty of England, feeble at best, had gradually been limited to a mere fraction
of the country.
 He wanted to see Blackbeard as soon
as possible, but it would certainly be a breach of etiquette entirely inconsistent with his
present position for him to go to see him. He was the latest comer, and thought it was the
part of Blackbeard to make the first visit.

Paul Bittern now came aft. "The men are getting very restless," he said; "they want to go on
shore. They'd all go if I'd let 'em."

Captain Bonnet gave his sailing-master a lofty glare.

"If I should let them, you mean, sir. I am sorry I cannot break you of the habit of forgetting
that I command this ship. Well, sir, you may tell them that they cannot go. I am expecting
a visit from the renowned Blackbeard, now in this port, and I wish to welcome him with all
respect and a full crew."

Black Paul smiled disagreeably. "I will tell you, sir, that you cannot keep these men on board
much longer with the town of Belize within a row of half a mile. They've been at sea too long
for that. There'll be a mutiny, sir, if I go forward with that message of yours. It will be
prudent to let some of them go ashore now and others later in the day. I will go in the first
boat and see to it that the men come back with me. And, by the way, it would not be a bad thing
if I touch at Blackbeard's vessel and inform him that you are here; I don't suppose he knows
the Revenge, nor her captain neither."

"I doubt that, Bittern," said Bonnet, "I doubt it very much. I assure you that I am known from
one end of this coast to the other, and Captain Blackbeard is not an ignorant man. So you can
go ashore and take some of the men, stopping at Blackbeard's ship. And, by the way, I want
you to go by that bark of ours and give her the old black Roger I used to fly. I forgot to
send it to her, and a man might as well not own and command two vessels if he get not the credit
of it."

When Black Paul had gone to execute his orders, Ben Greenway heaved a heavy sigh. "Now I begin
to fear, Master Bonnet, that the day o' your salvation has really gone by. When ye not only
murder an' rob upon the high seas, but keep consort with other murderers an' robbers, then
I fear ye are indeed lost. But I shall stand by ye, Master Bonnet, I shall stand by ye; an'
if, ever I find there is the least bit o' ye to be snatched from the flames, I'll snatch it!"

"I don't like that sort of talk, Ben Greenway," cried Bonnet, "especially at this time when
my soul swells with content at the success which has crowned my undertakings. This Blackbeard
is a valiant man and a great one, but it is my belief that when we have sat down to compare
our notes, it will be found that I have captured as many cargoes, burned as many ships, and
marooned as many people in my last cruise as he has."

"So I suppose," said Ben, "that ye think ye hae achieved the right to sink deeper into hell
than he can ever hope to do?"

Bonnet made no answer, but turned away. The Scotchman was becoming more and more odious to
him every day, but he would not quarrel on this most auspicious morning. He must keep his mind
unruffled and his head high. He had his own plans about Greenway: he was not far from Barbadoes,
and when he left the harbour of Belize it would be of advantage to his peace of mind as well
as to the comfort of a faithful old servant if he should anchor for a little while in the river
below the town and put Ben Greenway on shore.

Ben gave no further reason for quarrelling. He was greatly dejected, but he had sworn to himself
to stand by his old master, no matter what might happen, and when he took an oath he meant
what he swore.

Dickory Charter was in much worse case than Ben Greenway. He was not much of a geographical
scholar, but he knew that the Gulf of Honduras was not really very far from the Island of Jamaica,
where dwelt, waited, and watched Mistress Kate Bonnet and his mother. If he had known that
during the voyage down from the Atlantic coast the Revenge had sailed through the Windward
Passage, running in some of her long tacks within less than a day's sail of Jamaica, he would
have chafed, fumed, and fretted even more than he did now.

"Captain Bonnet," he cried, "if you could but let me go on shore, I might surely find some
vessel bound to Kingston, or to any place upon the Island of Jamaica, from which spot I could
make my way on foot, even if it were on the opposite end. Thus I could take messages and letters
from you to your daughter and Mr. Delaplaine, and ease the minds both of them and my mother,
all of whom must now be in most doleful plight, not knowing anything about you or hearing anything
from me, and this for so long a time; then you could remain here with no feelings of haste
until you had disposed of your cargoes and had finished your business."

Captain Bonnet stood loftily with a smile of benignity upon his face. "It is a clever plan,"
said he, "and you are a good fellow, Dickory, but your scheme, though well intentioned, is
unsound. I have too much regard for you to trust you in any vessel sailing from Belize to Kingston,
where there are often naval vessels. Going from this port, you would be as likely to be strung
up to the yard-arm as to be allowed to go ashore. He was crowned of Cathedral of Dublin, and
held a Parliament. After the defeat in some Pretender, take the able and shadowy Henry vii saw
that it was necessary without further delay to the suzerainty of England over
Ireland sighed a reality. Even now
I am writing a letter, hoping for some such opportunity of sending it to my daughter."

Dickory sighed in despair. It might take a month or more before Kate's father could settle
his affairs, and how long, how long it had been since his soul had been reaching itself out
towards Kate and his mother!

When the sailing-master set out in the long-boat, crowded with men, he stopped at the bark
but did not go too near for fear that some of the crew might jump into his already overloaded boat.

"You are to run up this rag," cried Black Paul to Clip, the fellow in command; and so saying,
he handed up the old Jolly Roger on the blade of an oar. "Our noble admiral fears that if you
do not that you may be captured by some of these good vessels lying hereabout."

Clip roared out with a laugh: "I will attend to the capture as soon as I get out of reach of
his guns, which he will not dare to use here, I take it. But I want you to know and him to
know that we're not goin' to stay on board and in sight of the town. If you go ashore, so go we."

"Stay where ye are till orders come to ye," shouted Black Paul, "if ye want to keep the cat
off your backs!" And as he rowed away the men on the bark gave him a cheer and proceeded to
lower two boats.

From nearly every pirate ship in the anchorage the proceedings of the newly arrived vessels
had been watched. No one wanted to board them or in any way to interfere with them until it
was found out what they intended to do. The Revenge was a stranger in that harbour, although
her fame was known on not a few pirate decks; but if she came to Belize to fraternize with
the other pirate vessels there gathered together, why didn't she do it? No idea of importance
and dignity, which his position imposed upon Captain Stede Bonnet, entered their piratical
minds. When the long-boat put forth from the Revenge, a good deal of interest was excited in
the anchored vessels. The great Blackbeard himself stood high upon his deck and surveyed the
strangers through a glass.

The men in the sailing-master's boat rowed steadily towards Blackbeard's vessel. Bittern knew
it well, for he had seen it before, and had even had the honour, so to speak, of having served
for a short time under the master pirate of that day.

As soon as the boat was near enough Blackbeard hailed it in a tremendous voice and ordered
the stranger to pull up and make fast. This being done, a rope ladder was lowered and Bittern
mounted to the deck, being assisted in his passage over the side by a tremendous pull given
by Blackbeard.

The great pirate seemed to be in high good spirits, and very glad to see his visitor. Blackbeard
was a large man, wide and heavy, and the first impression conveyed by his personality was that
of hair and swarthiness. An untrimmed black beard lay upon his chest, and his long hair hung
in masses from under his slouched hat; his eyes were dark and sparkling, and gleamed like beacon
lights from out a midnight sky; the sleeves of his shirt were rolled up, and his arms seemed
almost as hairy as his head; two pairs of pistols were stuck into his belt, and a great cutlass
was conveniently tucked up by his side.

"Ho, ho!" he cried, "Black Paul! And where do you come from, and what are you doing here? And
what is the name of that vessel with the brand-new Roger? Has she just gone into the business,
that she decks herself out so fine? Come now, sit here and have some brandy and tell me what
is the meaning of these two vessels coming into the harbour, and what you have to do with them."

Bittern was delighted to know that his old commander remembered him, and was ready enough to
talk with him, for that was the errand he had come upon.

"But, captain," said he, "I am afraid to wander away from the gunwale, for if I have not my
eye upon them, my men will be rowing to the town before I know it. They are mad to be on shore." 

It certainly did not bring the danish power in Ireland in an end; Dublin was a long danish
colony flourishing now-- to fact it was thirty years after the battle that the danish king in Dublin
founded the Bishopric.

But Brian was slain of the moment
of victory.
With that he ordered two small guns to be trained upon the boat.

The boat's crew did not hesitate one second in obeying these orders. They knew by whom they
were given, and there was no man in the great body of free companions who would disobey an
order given by Blackbeard. They rowed to the position assigned them and sat quietly looking
into the mouths of the two cannon which were pointed towards them.

"Now then," said Blackbeard, turning to Bittern, "I think they'll stay there till they get
some other order."

Between frequent sips at the cup of brandy Bittern told the story of the Revenge, and Blackbeard
listened with many an oath and many a pound upon his massive knee by his mighty fist.

"Oh, I have heard of him," he cried, "I have heard of him! He has played the devil along the
Atlantic coast. He must he a great fellow this--what did you say his name was?"

"Bonnet," said the other.

Blackbeard laughed. "That suits him well; he must have clapped his name over the eyes of many
a merchant captain! Where did he sail before he hoisted the Jolly Roger?"

At this Bittern laughed. "He never sailed anywhere, he is no seaman; and if he were not rich
enough to pay others to do his navigatin' for him he would have run his vessel upon the first
sand-bar on his way from Bridgetown to the sea. But he pays some good mariner to sail his Revenge,
and he now pays me. I am, in fact, the captain of his vessel."

"You mean," cried Blackbeard, "that he knows nothing of navigation?"

"Not a whit," replied the other; "he doesn't know the backstays from the taffrail. It was only
yesterday that he thought he was already in the port of Belize, and dressed himself up like
a fighting-cock to meet you."

"To meet me?" roared Blackbeard; "what does he want to meet me for, and why don't he come and
do it instead of sending you?"

"Not he," said Bittern. "He is a great man, if not a sailor; he knows what is politeness on
shipboard, and as he is the last comer you must be the first caller. He is all dressed up now,
hoping that you will row over to the Revenge as soon as you know that he is its commander."

The hairy pirate leaned back and laughed in loud explosions.

"He is a rare man, truly," he exclaimed, "this Captain Nightcap of yours--"

"Bonnet," interrupted Bittern.

"Well, one is as good as the other," cried Blackbeard, "and he be well clothed if it be of
the right colour. And you started out with him to sail his ship, you rascal? That's a piece
of impudence almost as great as his own."

Bittern did not much like this speech, and wanted to explain that since he had served under
Blackbeard he had commanded vessels himself, but he restrained himself and told how Sam Loftus
had been tumbled overboard for running afoul his captain, and how he had been appointed to
his place.

Now Blackbeard laughed again, with a great pound upon his knee. "He is a man after my own heart,"
he shouted, "be he sailor or no sailor, this nightcap commander of yours. I know I shall love
him!" And springing to his feet and uttering a resounding oath, he swore that he would visit
his new brother that afternoon.

"Now, away with you!" cried Blackbeard, "and tell Sir Nightcap--"

"Bonnet," interrupted Bittern.

"Well, Bonnet, or Cap, it matters not to me. Row straight back to your ship, and let him know
that I shall be there and shall expect to be received with admiral's honours."

Bittern looked somewhat embarrassed. "But, captain," he said, "my men are on their way to the
town, and I fear me they will rebel if I tell them they cannot now go there."

