The Independence of Claire

By Mrs George de Horne Vaizey

This is a rather typical Horne Vaizey book, about the life led by young well-brought-up women
in Edwardian times.  Worries about money, about who to marry, whether to go or not to parties
to be given by elderly hostesses, about clothes, about hair-styles, and even, as so often in
this author's books, with a bit of illness thrown in as well.

There's a time when Claire seems on the way to making a big mistake, but it all gets sorted
out in the end.  Make an audiobook of this book - that is probably the best way to enjoy it.

THE INDEPENDENCE OF CLAIRE

BY MRS. GEORGE DE HORNE VAIZEY

CHAPTER ONE.

"I'LL HAVE TO DO IT."

Claire Gifford stood in the salon of the Brussels pension which had been her home for the last
three years, and bent her brows in consideration of an all-absorbing problem.  "Can I marry
him?" she asked herself once and again, with the baffling result that every single time her
brain answered instantly, "You must!" the while her heart rose up in rebellion, and cried,
"I won't!"  Many girls have found themselves in the same predicament before and since, but
few have had stronger reasons for sacrificing personal inclination on the altar of filial duty
than Claire knew at this minute.

To begin with, the relationship between herself and her mother was more intimate than is usually
the case, for Claire was an only child, and Mrs Gifford a widow only eighteen years older than
herself.  Briefly stated, the family history was as follows--Eleanor Guyther had been the only
child of stern, old-world parents, and at seventeen had run away from the house which had been
more like a prison than a home, to marry a handsome young artist who had been painting in the
neighbourhood during the summer months; a handsome merry-faced boy of twenty-one, whose portrait
Claire treasured in an old-fashioned gold locket, long since discarded by her mother, who followed
the fashion in jewellery as well as in dress.  It was strange to look at the face of a father
who was no older than oneself, and Claire had spent many hours gazing at the pictured face,
and trying to gain from it some idea of the personality of the man of whom her mother persistently
refused to speak.

Mrs Gifford shrank from all disagreeables, great and small, and systematically turned her back
on anything which was disturbing or painful, so that it was only from chance remarks that her
daughter had gained any information about the past.  She knew that her father had been a successful
artist, although not in the highest sense of the term. He had a trick of turning out pretty
domestic pictures which appealed to the taste of the million, and which, being purchased by
enterprising dealers, were reproduced in cheap prints to deck the walls of suburban parlours.
While he lived he made a sufficient income, and before his death a formal reconciliation had
taken place between the runaway daughter and her north-country parents, from whom she later
inherited the money which had supported herself and her daughter throughout the years of her
widowhood.

Claire had the vaguest idea as to the amount of her mother's means, for until the last few
years the question of money had never arisen, they had simply decided what they wished to do,
without considering the cost, but of late there had been seasons of financial tightness, and
the morning on which this history begins had brought a most disagreeable awakening.

Mrs Gifford was seated in the salon staring disconsolately at a note which had just arrived
by the afternoon post.  It was a very disagreeable note, for it stated in brief and callous
terms that her account at the bank was overdrawn to the extent of three hundred francs, and
politely requested that the deficit should be made good.  Claire looked flushed and angry;
Mrs Gifford looked pathetic and pale.

It seemed, in the first place, quite ludicrous that such a relationship as that of mother and
daughter should exist between two women who looked so nearly of an age, and Mrs Gifford's youthful
appearance was a standing joke in the Pension.  Every new visitor was questioned by Madame
as to the relationship between the two English ladies, and never had one of the number failed
to reply "sisters," and to be convulsed with astonishment when corrected; and in good truth
Mrs Gifford was a wonderful specimen of the prolonged youth which is a phenomenon of the present
day.

She was slight, she was graceful, her waving brown hair was as naturally luxuriant as that
of a girl, her complexion was smooth and fair, her pretty features were unchanged, she dressed
with good taste, and, though secretly proud of her youthful looks, was never so foolish as
to adopt kittenish airs to match.  Her manner was quiet, gracious, appealing; a little air
of pathos enveloped her like a mist; on strangers she made the impression of a lovely creature
who had known suffering.  Everybody was kind to Mrs Gifford, and she in return had never been
known to utter an unkind word.  She had been born with the faculty of loving everybody a little,
and no one very much, which--if one comes to think of it--is the most powerful of all factors
towards securing an easy life, since it secures the owner from the possibility of keen personal
suffering.

At the present moment Mrs Gifford did, however, look really perturbed, for, after shutting
her eyes to a disagreeable fact, and keeping them shut with much resolution and--it must be
added--ease, for many years past, she was now driven to face the truth, and to break it to
her daughter into the bargain.

"But I don't understand!"  Claire repeated blankly.  "How can the money be gone?  We have spent
no more this year than for years past.  I should think we have spent less.  I haven't been
extravagant a bit.  You offered me a new hat only last week, and I said I could do without--"

"Yes, yes, of course.  It's quite true, cherie, you have been most good.  But, you see, ours
has not been a case of an income that goes on year after year--it never was, even from the
beginning.  There was not enough.  And you did have a good education, didn't you?  I spared
nothing on it.  It's folly to stint on a girl's education.--It was one of the best schools
in Paris."

"It was, mother; but we are not talking about schools.  Do let us get to the bottom of this
horrid muddle!  If it isn't a case of `income,' what can it be?  I'm ignorant about money,
for you have always managed business matters, but I can't see what else we can have been living
upon?"

Mrs Gifford crinkled her delicate brows, and adopted an air of plaintive self-defence.

"I'm sure it's as great a shock to me as it is to you; but, under the circumstances, I do think
I managed very well.  It was only nine thousand pounds at the beginning, and I've made it last
over thirteen years, with your education!  And since we've been here, for the last three years,
I've given you a good time, and taken you to everything that was going on.  Naturally it all
costs.  Naturally money can't last for ever..."

The blood flooded the girl's face.  Now at last she did understand, and the knowledge filled
her with awe.

"Mother!  Do you mean that we have been living all this time on capital?"

Mrs Gifford shrugged her shoulders, and extended her hands in an attitude typically French.

"What would you, ma chere?  Interest is so ridiculously low.  They offered me three per cent.
Four was considered high.  How could we have lived on less than three hundred a year?  Your
school bills came to nearly as much, and I had to live, too, and keep you in the holidays.
I did what I thought was the best.  We should both have been miserable in cheap pensions, stinting
ourselves of everything we liked.  The money has made us happy for thirteen years."

Claire rose from her seat and walked over to the window.  The road into which she looked was
wide and handsome, lined with a double row of trees.  The sun shone on the high white houses
with the green jalousies, which stood vis-a-vis with the Pension.  Along the cobble-stoned
path a dog was dragging a milk-cart, the gleaming brass cans clanking from side to side; through
the open window came the faint indescribable scent which distinguishes a continental from a
British city.  Claire stared with unseeing eyes, her heart beating with heavy thuds.  She conjured
up the image of a man's face--a strong kindly face--a face which might well make the sunshine
of some woman's life, but which made no appeal to her own heart.  She set her lips, and two
bright spots of colour showed suddenly in her cheeks.  So smooth and uneventful had been her
life that this was the first time that she had found herself face to face with serious difficulty,
and, after the first shock of realisation, her spirit rose to meet it.  She straightened her
shoulders as if throwing off a weight, and her heart cried valiantly, "It's my own life, and
I will not be forced!  There must be some other way.  It's for me to find it!"

Suddenly she whirled round, and walked back to her mother.

"Mother, if you knew how little money was left, why wouldn't you let me accept Miss Farnborough's
offer at Christmas!"

For a moment Mrs Gifford's face expressed nothing but bewilderment. Then comprehension dawned.

"You mean the school-mistress from London?  What was it she suggested? That you should go to
her as a teacher?  It was only a suggestion, so far as I remember.  She made no definite offer."

"Oh, yes, she did.  She said that she had everlasting difficulty with her French mistresses,
and that I was the very person for whom she'd been looking.  Virtually French, yet really English
in temperament.  She made me a definite offer of a hundred and ten pounds a year."

Mrs Gifford laughed, and shrugged her graceful shoulders.  She appeared to find the proposal
supremely ridiculous, yet when people were without money, the only sane course seemed to be
to take what one could get. Claire felt that she had not yet mastered the situation.  There
must be something behind which she had still to grasp.

"Well, never mind the school for a moment, mother dear.  Tell me what you thought of doing.
You must have had some plan in your head all these years while the money was dwindling away.
Tell me your scheme, then we can compare the two and see which is better."

Mrs Gifford bent her head over the table, and scribbled aimlessly with a pen in which there
was no ink.  She made no answer in words, yet as she waited the blood flamed suddenly over
Claire's face, for it seemed to her that she divined what was in her mother's mind.  "I expected
that you would marry.  I have done my best to educate you and give you a happy youth.  I expected
that you would accept your first good offer, and look after me!"

That was what a French mother would naturally say to her daughter; that was what Claire Gifford
believed that her own mother was saying to her at that moment, and the accusation brought little
of the revolt which an English girl would have experienced.  Claire had been educated at a
Parisian boarding school, and during the last three years had associated almost entirely with
French-speaking Andrees and Maries and Celestes, who took for granted that their husbands should
be chosen for them by their parents.  Claire had assisted at betrothal feasts, and played demoiselle
d'honneur at subsequent weddings, and had witnessed an astonishing degree of happiness as an
outcome of these business-like unions.  At this moment she felt no anger against her own mother
for having tried to follow a similar course.  Her prevailing sensation was annoyance with herself
for having been so difficult to lead.

"It must be my English blood.  Somehow, when it came to the point, I never could.  But Mr Judge
is different from most men.  He is so good and generous and unmercenary.  He'd be kind to mother,
and let her live with us, and make no fuss.  He is as charming to her as he is to me. Oh, dear,
I am selfish!  I am a wretch!  It isn't as if I were in love with anyone else.  I'm not.  Perhaps
I never shall be.  I'll never have the chance if I live in lodgings and spend my life teaching
irregular verbs.  Why can't I be sensible and French, and marry him and live happily ever after?
Pauvre petite mere!  Why can't I think of her?"

Suddenly Claire swooped down upon her mother's drooping figure, wrapped her in loving arms,
and swung her gently to and fro.  She was a tall, strikingly graceful girl, with a face less
regularly beautiful than her mother's, but infinitely more piquant and attractive.  She was
more plump and rounded than the modern English girl, and her complexion less pink and white,
but she was very neat and dainty and smart, possessed deep-set, heavily-lashed grey eyes, red
lips which curled mischievously upward at the corner, and a pair of dimples on her soft left cheek.

The dimples were in full play at this moment; the large one was just on the level with the
upward curl of the lips, the smaller one nestled close to its side.  In repose they were almost
unnoticed, but at the slightest lighting of expression, at the first dawn of a smile, they
danced into sight and became the most noticeable feature of her face. Claire without her dimples
would have been another and far less fascinating personality.

"Mother darling, forgive me!  Kiss me, cherie--don't look sad!  I have had a good time, and
we'll have a good time yet, if it is in my power to get it for you.  Cheer up!  Things won't
be as bad as you fear. We won't allow them to be bad. ...  How much does the horrid old bank
say that we owe?  Three hundred francs.  I can pay it out of my own little savings.  Does it
mean literally that there is nothing more, nothing at all--not a single sou?"

"Oh no.  I have some shares.  They have been worthless for years, but just lately they have
gone up.  I was asking Mr Judge about them yesterday.  He says I might get between two and
three hundred pounds. They were worth a thousand, years ago."

Claire brightened with the quick relief of youth.  Two or three hundred English pounds were
a considerable improvement on a debit account.  With two or three hundred pounds much might
yet be done.  Thousands of people had built up great fortunes on smaller foundations.  In a
vague, indefinite fashion she determined to devote these last pounds to settling herself in
some business, which would ensure a speedy and generous return.  School teaching was plainly
out of the question, since two gentlewomen could not exist on a hundred and ten pounds a year.
She must think of something quicker, more lucrative.

All through dinner that evening Claire debated her future vocation as she sat by her mother's
side, halfway down the long dining-table which to English eyes appeared so bare and unattractive,
but which was yet supplied with the most appetising of food.  Claire's eyes were accustomed
to the lack of pretty detail; she had quite an affection for the Pension which stood for home
in her migratory life, and a real love for Madame Dupre, the cheery, kindly, most capable proprietor.
Such of the pensionnaires as were not purely birds of passage she regarded as friends rather
than acquaintances; the only person in the room to whom she felt any antagonism was Mr Judge
himself, but unfortunately he was the one of all others whom she was expected to like best.

As she ate her salad and broke fragments of delicious crusty roll, Claire threw furtive glances
across the table at the man who for the last weeks had exercised so disturbing an element in
her life.  Was it six weeks or two months, since she and her mother had first made his acquaintance
at the tennis club at which they spent so many of their afternoons?  Claire had noticed that
a new man had been present on that occasion, had bestowed on him one critical glance, decided
with youthful arrogance: "Oh, quite old!" and promptly forgotten his existence, until an hour
later, when, as she was sitting in the pavilion enjoying the luxury of a real English tea,
the strange man and her mother had entered side by side.  Claire summoned in imagination the
picture of her mother as she had looked at that moment, slim and graceful in the simplest of
white dresses, an untrimmed linen hat shading her charming face.  She looked about twenty-five,
and Claire was convinced that she knew as much, and that it was a mischievous curiosity to
see her companion's surprise which prompted her to lead the way across the floor, and formally
introduce "My daughter!"

Mr Judge exhibited all the expected signs of bewilderment, but he made himself exceedingly
amiable to the daughter, and it was not until a week later that it was discovered that he had
concluded that the relationship must surely be "step," when fresh explanations were made, and
all the bewilderment came over again.

Since then, oh, since then, Claire told herself, there had been no getting away from the man!
He was, it appeared, an Indian merchant spending a few months on the Continent, at the conclusion
of a year's leave.  He had come to Brussels because of the presence of an old school friend--the
same friend who was responsible for the introduction at the tennis club--but week after week
passed by, and he showed no disposition to move on.

Now Brussels is a very gay and interesting little city, but when Paris looms ahead, and Berlin,
Vienna, to say nothing of the beauties of Switzerland and the Tyrol, and the artistic treasures
of Italy--well! it did seem out of proportion to waste six whole weeks in that one spot!

At the end of the last fortnight, too, Mr Judge declared that he was sick to death of hotels
and lonely evenings in smoking rooms, and approached Madame Dupre with a view to joining the
party at Villa Beau Sejour.  Madame was delighted to receive him, but Claire Gifford told her
mother resentfully that she considered Mr Judge's behaviour "very cool."  How did he know that
it would be pleasant for them to have him poking about morning, noon, and night?

"It isn't our Pension, darling, and he is very nice to you," Mrs Gifford had said in return,
and as it was impossible to contradict either statement, Claire had tossed her head, and relapsed
into silence.

For the first weeks of her acquaintance with Mr Judge, Claire had thoroughly enjoyed his attentions.
It was agreeable to know a man who had a habit of noting your wishes, and then setting to work
to bring them about forthwith, and who was also delightfully extravagant as regards flowers,
and seemed to grow chocolates in his coat pockets.  It was only when he spoke of moving to
the Pension, and her girl friends at the tennis club began to tease, roll meaning eyes, and
ask when she was to be congratulated, that she took fright.

Did people really think that she was going to marry Mr Judge?

Lately things had moved on apace, and as a result of the unwelcome revelations of the morning's
post, Claire was to-day asking herself a different question.  She was no longer occupied with
other people; she was thinking of herself...  "Am I going to marry Mr Judge?  Oh, good gracious,
is that My Husband sitting over there, and have I got to live with him every day, as long as
we both shall live?"

She shuddered at the thought, but in truth there was nothing to shudder at in Robert Judge's
appearance.  He was a man of forty, bronzed, and wiry, with agreeable if not regular features.
Round his eyes the skin was deeply furrowed, but the eyes themselves were bright and youthful,
and the prevailing expression was one of sincerity and kindliness.  He wore a loose grey tweed
suit, with a soft-coloured shirt which showed a length of brown neck.  The fingers of his right
band were deeply stained with tobacco.  During dejeuner he carried on a conversation with his
right-hand companion, in exceedingly bad French, but ever and anon he glanced across the table
as though his thoughts were not on his words. Once, on looking up suddenly, Claire found his
eyes fixed upon herself, with a strained, anxious look, and her heart quickened as she looked,
then sank down heavy as lead.

"It's coming!" she said to herself.  "It's coming!  There's no running away.  I'll have to
stay, and see it out.  Oh, why can't I be French, and sensible?  I ought to be thankful to
marry such a kind, good man, and be able to give mother a comfortable home!"

But as a matter of fact she was neither glad nor thankful.  Despite her French training, the
English instinct survived and clamoured for liberty, for independence.  "It's my own life.
If I marry at all, I want to choose the man for no other reason than that I love him; not as
a duty, and to please somebody else!"  Then she glanced at her mother sitting by her side,
slim, and graceful, with the little air of pathos and helplessness which even strangers found
so appealing, and as she did so, a shiver passed through Claire's veins.

"But I'll have to do it!" she said to herself helplessly.  "I'll have to do it!"

CHAPTER TWO.

TOO SUCCESSFUL!

The next few days passed by slowly enough.  It is a great trial for a young creature to realise
that a change is inevitable and, at the same time, that one must be cautious about making it.
The impulse is always to rush into action, and it is difficult to sit still and agree with
the elderly precept in favour of consideration and delay.  If matters had been left to Claire
she would have started out forthwith to search for a cheap Pension, and would have also despatched
a letter to Miss Farnborough by the first post, to inquire if the school post were still open,
but her mother vetoed both proposals, and pleaded so urgently for delay, that there was nothing
left but to agree, and compose herself as best she might.

The weather was too hot for tennis, and in truth Claire was not in the mood for games.  With
every hour she realised more keenly that she had come to the parting of the ways, and in the
prospect of a new life old interests lost their savour.  Her mother seemed to share her restlessness,
but while Claire preferred to stay indoors, in the privacy of her own room, Mrs Gifford seemed
to find relief in action, and was often out for hours at a time, without vouchsafing any explanation
of her absence.

Claire was not curious.  She was content to close the green shutters of her windows, slip into
a muslin wrapper, and employ herself at some simple piece of needlework, which kept her hands
busy while leaving her thoughts free.

Where would she be this time next year?  It was a question which no mortal can answer with
certainty, but many of us are happy in the probability that we shall be still living in the
same dear home, surrounded by the people and the objects which we love, whereas Claire's one
certainty was that she must move on to fresh scenes.  Bombay or London--that seemed the choice
ahead!  Matrimony or teaching.  On the one hand a luxurious home, carriages and horses, a staff
of servants, and apparently as much society as one desired, with the incubus of a husband whom
she did not love, and who was twenty years her senior.  On the other hand, work and poverty,
with the advantages of freedom and independence.

Claire's eyes brightened at the sound of those two words, for dear as liberty is to the heart
of an Englishwoman, it was in prospect dearer still to this girl who had been educated in a
country still enslaved by chaperonage, and had never known a taste of real freedom of action.
Mrs Gifford had been as strict as or stricter than any Belgian mother, being rightly determined
that no breath of scandal should touch her daughter's name; therefore wherever Claire went,
some responsible female went with her.  She was chaperoned to church, chaperoned on her morning
constitutional, a chaperon sat on guard during the period of music and drawing lessons, and
at their conclusion escorted her back to the Pension.  What wonder that the thought of life
as a bachelor girl in London seemed full of a thrilling excitement!

Suppose for one minute that she decided on London--what would become of mother?  Again and
again Claire asked herself this question, again and again she recalled the interview between
herself and the headmistress, Miss Farnborough, when the subject of teaching had been discussed.
It had happened one morning in the salon of the Pension, when Claire had been coaching an English
visitor in preparation for a French interview which lay ahead, and Miss Farnborough, laying
down her book, had listened with smiling interest.  Then the Englishwoman left the room, and
Miss Farnborough had said, "You did that very cleverly; very cleverly indeed!  You have a very
happy knack of putting things simply and forcibly.  I've noticed it more than once.  Have you
ever done any teaching?"

"None professionally," Claire had replied with a laugh, "but a great deal by chance.  I seem
to drift into the position of coach to most of the English visitors here.  It pleases them,
and it interests me.  And I used to help the French girls with their English at school."

Then Miss Farnborough had inquired with interest as to the details of Claire's education, the
schools she had attended, the examinations she had passed, and finally had come the critical
question, "Have you ever thought of taking up teaching as a profession?"

Claire had never thought of taking up work of any kind, but the suggestion roused a keen interest,
as one of the temporary "tight" times was in process, so that the prospect of money-making
seemed particularly agreeable.  She discussed the subject carefully, and out of that discussion
had arisen the final offer of a post.

The junior French mistress in the High School of which Miss Farnborough was head was leaving
at midsummer.  If Claire wished she could take her place, at a salary beginning at a hundred
and ten pounds a year.  In Trust Schools, of which Saint Cuthbert's was one, there was no fixed
scale of advancement, but a successful teacher could reach a salary of, say, two hundred a
year by the time she was thirty-eight or forty, as against the permanent sixty or seventy offered
to mistresses in residential schools of a higher grade.  Miss Farnborough's mistresses were
women trained at the various universities; the school itself was situated in a fashionable
neighbourhood, and its pupils were for the most part daughters of professional men, and gentlefolk
of moderate incomes.  There was no pension scheme, and mistresses had to live out, but with
care and economy they could take out some insurance to provide for old age.

Claire took little interest in her own old age, which seemed too far away to count, but she
was intensely interested in the immediate future, and had been hurt and annoyed when her mother
had waved aside the proposal as unworthy of serious consideration.  And now, only three months
after Miss Farnborough's departure, the crisis had arisen, and that hundred and ten pounds
assumed a vastly increased value.  Supposing that the post was accepted, and mother and daughter
started life in London with a capital of between two and three hundred pounds, and a salary
of one hundred and ten, as regular income--how long would the nest-egg last out?

Judging from the experience of past years, a very short time indeed, and what would happen
after that?  Claire had read gruesome tales of the struggles of women in like positions, overtaken
by illness, losing the salaries which represented their all, brought face to face with actual
starvation, and in the midst of the midsummer heat, little shivers of fear trickled up and
down her spine as she realised how easily she and her mother might drift into a like position.

Then, on the other hand, Bombay!  Indian houses were large; mother could have her own rooms.
In the hot weather they would go together to the hills, leaving Mr Judge behind.  How long
did the hot season last, four or five months?  Nearly half the year, perhaps.  It would be
only half as bad as marrying a man for money in Europe, for you would get rid of him all that
time!  Claire shrugged her shoulders and laughed, and two minutes later whisked away a tear,
dedicated to the memory of girlish dreams.  Useless to dream any longer, she was awake now,
and must face life in a sensible manner.  Her duty was to marry Robert Judge, and to make a
home for her mother.

Another girl might have cherished anger against the recklessness which had landed her in such
a trap, but after the first shock of discovery there had been no resentment in Claire's heart.
She implicitly believed her mother's assurance that according to her light she had acted for
the best, and echoed with heartiness the assertion that the money had provided a good time
for thirteen long years.

They had not been rich, but there had been a feeling of sufficiency. They had had comfortable
quarters, pretty clothes, delightful holiday journeys, a reasonable amount of gaiety, and,
over and beyond all, the advantages of an excellent education.  Claire's happy nature remembered
her benefits, and made short work of the rest.  Poor, beautiful mother! who could expect her
to be prudent and careful, like any ordinary, prosaic, middle-aged woman?

Even as the thought passed through the girl's mind the door of the bedroom opened, and Mrs
Gifford appeared on the threshold.  She wore a large shady hat, and in the dim light of the
room her face was not clearly visible, but there was a tone in her voice which aroused Claire's
instant curiosity.  Mother was trying to speak in her ordinary voice, but she was nervous,
she was agitated.  She was not feeling ordinary at all.

"Claire, cherie, we are going to the forest to have tea.  It is impossibly hot indoors, but
it will be delightful under the trees.  Mr Judge has sent for a fiacre, and Miss Benson has
asked to come too. Put on your blue muslin and your big hat.  Be quick, darling!  I'll fasten
you up."

"I'd rather not go, thank you, mother.  I'm quite happy here.  Don't trouble about me!"

Mrs Gifford was obviously discomposed.  She hesitated, frowned, walked restlessly up and down,
then spoke again with an added note of insistence--

"But I want you to come, Claire.  I've not troubled you before, because I saw you wanted to
be alone, but--it can't go on.  Mr Judge wants you to come.  He suggested the drive because
he thought it would tempt you. If you refuse to-day, he will ask you again to-morrow.  I think,
dear, you ought to come."

Claire was silent.  She felt sick and faint; all over her body little pulses seemed to be whizzing
like so many alarm clocks, all crying in insistent voices, "Time's up!  Time's up!  No more
lazing.  Up with you, and do your duty!"  Her forehead felt very damp and her throat felt very
dry, and she heard a sharp disagreeable voice saying curtly--

"Oh, certainly, I will come.  No need to make a fuss.  I can dress myself, thank you.  I'll
come down when I'm ready!"

Mrs Gifford turned without a word and went out of the room, but Claire was too busy being sorry
for herself to have sympathy to spare for anyone else.  She threw off her wrapper and slipped
into the cool muslin dress which was at once so simple, and so essentially French and up-to-
date, and then, throwing open the door of a cupboard, stared at a long row of hats ranged on
a top shelf, and deliberately selected the one which she considered the least becoming.

"I will not be decked up for the sacrifice!" she muttered rebelliously, then bent forward,
so that her face approached close to the flushed, frowning reflection in the glass.  "You are
going to be proposed to, my dear!" she said scornfully.  "You are going to be good and sensible,
and say `Yes, please!'  When you see yourself next, you will be Engaged!  It won't be dear
little Claire Gifford any more, it will be the horrible future Mrs Robert Judge!"

She stuck hat-pins through the straw hat with savage energy; for once in her life noticed with
distinct satisfaction that it was secured at an unbecoming angle, then, hearing through the
jalousies the sound of approaching wheels, marched resolutely forth to meet her fate...

In the fiacre Mrs Gifford and Miss Benson took the seats of honour, leaving Claire and Mr Judge
to sit side by side, and the one furtive glance which she cast in his direction showed him
looking confident and unperturbed.  Just like a French pretendu, already assured by Maman that
Mademoiselle was meekly waiting to assent to his suit!

"He might at least pay me the compliment of pretending!  It is dreadfully dull to be taken
for granted," reflected Claire in disgust.

The next hour was a horrible experience.  Everything happened exactly as Claire had known it
would, from the moment the quartette set forth. Arrived at the forest, they took possession
of one of the little tables beneath the trees, and made fitful conversation the while they
consumed delicious cakes and execrable tea.  Then the meal being finished, Mrs Gifford and
her companion announced a wish to sit still and rest, while Mr Judge nervously invited Miss
Claire to accompany him in a walk.  She assented, of course; what was the use of putting it
off? and as soon as they were well started, he spied another seat, and insisted upon sitting
down once more.

"Now he'll begin," thought Claire desperately.  "He'll talk about India, and being lonely,
and say how happy he has felt since he's been here," and even as the thought passed through
her mind, Mr Judge began to speak.

"Awfully jolly old forest this is--awfully nice place Brussels, altogether.  Nicest place in
the world.  Never been so happy in my life as I've been the last month.  Of course, naturally,
you must realise that, when a fellow hangs on week after week, there--er, there must be some
special attraction.  Not that it isn't a rattling old city, and all that!"  Mr Judge was growing
a little mixed: his voice sounded flurried and nervous, but Claire was not in the least inclined
to help him.  She sat rigid as a poker, staring stolidly ahead.  There was not the ghost of
a dimple in her soft pink cheeks.

"I--er, your mother tells me that she has said nothing to you, but she is sure, all the same,
that you suspect.  I asked her to let me speak to you to-day.  Naturally she feels the difficulty.
She is devoted to you. You know that, of course.  I have told her that I will make your happiness
my special charge.  There is nothing in the world I would not do to ensure it.  You know that
too, don't you, Claire?"

He stretched out his hand and touched her tentatively on the arm, but Claire drew herself back
with a prickly dignity.  If he wanted to propose at all, he must propose properly; she was
not going to commit herself in response to an insinuation.

"You are very kind.  I am quite happy as I am."

"Er--yes--yes, of course, but--but things don't go on, you know, can't go on always without
a change!"

Mr Judge took off his straw hat, twirled it nervously to and fro, and laid it down on the bench
by his side.  Claire, casting a quick glance, noticed that his hair was growing noticeably
thin on the temples, and felt an additional sinking of spirits.

"Claire!" cried the man desperately, "don't let us beat about the bush. I'm not used to this
sort of thing--don't make it harder than you need! You have noticed, haven't you?  You know
what I want to tell you?"

Claire nodded dumbly.  In the case of previous Belgian admirers affairs had been checked before
they reached the extreme stage, and she found this, her first spoken proposal much less exciting
than she had expected.  As a friend pure and simple, she had thoroughly liked Mr Judge, and
at the bottom of her heart there lived a lingering hope that perhaps if he loved her very much,
and expressed his devotion in very eloquent words, her heart might soften in response.  But
so far he had not even mentioned love!  She was silent for several minutes, and when she did
speak it was to ask a side question.

"Is mother willing to go to India?"

She was looking at the man as she spoke, and the change which passed over his face, startled
her by its intensity.  His eyes shone, the rugged features were transfigured by a very radiance
of joy.  He looked young at that moment, young and handsome, and blissfully content. Claire
stared at him in amazement, not unmingled with irritation.  Even if mother were willing, her
own consent had still to be obtained.  It was tactless to make so sure!

Her own face looked decidedly sulky as she twitched round on her seat, and resumed her stolid
staring into space.  Again there was silence, till a hand stretched out to clasp her arm, and
a voice spoke in deep appealing accents--

"Claire, dear child, you are young; you have never known loneliness or disappointment.  We
have!  Happiness is fifty times more precious, when it comes to those who have suffered.  You
would not be cruel enough to damp our happiness!  You can do it, you know, if you persist in
an attitude of coldness and disapproval.  I don't say you can destroy it. Thank God! it goes
too deep for anyone to be able to do that.  But you can rub off the bloom.  Don't do it, Claire!
Be generous.  Be yourself. Wish us good luck!"

"Wish who good luck?  What, oh, what are you talking about?"  Claire was gasping now, quivering
with a frenzy of excitement.  Robert Judge stared in return, his face full of an honest bewilderment.

"Of our engagement, of course.  Your mother's engagement to me.  I have been talking about
it all the time!"

Then Claire threw up both her hands, and burst into a wild peal of laughter.  Peal after peal
rang out into the air, she rocked to and fro on her seat, her eyes disappeared from view, her
teeth shone, her little feet in their dainty French shoes danced upon the ground; she laughed
till the tears poured down her cheeks, and her gloved hands pressed against her side where
a "stitch" was uncomfortably making itself felt. Stout Belgian couples passing past the end
of the avenue, looked on with indulgent smiles, a little shocked at so much demonstration in
public, but relieved to perceive that une Anglaise could laugh with such abandon.  Monsieur
they observed looked not sympathetic.  Monsieur had an air injured, annoyed, on his dignity.
On his cheeks was a flush, as of wounded pride.  When at length the paroxysm showed signs of
lessening, he spoke in cold stilted tones.

"You appear to find it ridiculous.  It seems to amuse you very much.  I may say that to us
it is a serious matter!"

"Oh no!  You don't understand--you don't understand!" gasped Claire feebly.  "I am not laughing
at you.  I'm laughing at myself.  Oh, Mr Judge, you'll never guess, it's too screamingly funny
for words.  I thought all this time, from the very beginning I thought, it was me!"

"You thought it was--you thought I wanted--that I was talking of--that I meant to propose to--"

"Yes!  Yes!  Yes!  Me!  Me!  Me!  Of course I did.  I've been thinking it for weeks.  Everyone
thought so.  They've teased me to death.  You were attentive to me, you know you were.  You
were always giving me things ..."

"Well, of course!"  Poor Mr Judge defended himself with honest indignation.  "What else could
I do?  I could not give them to her! And I wanted--naturally I wanted, to get you on my side.
You were the difficulty.  I knew that if she had only herself to consider I could win her round,
but if you ranged yourself against me, it would be a hard fight.  Naturally I tried to ingratiate
myself.  It appears that I have rather overdone the part, but I can't flatter myself," his
eyes twinkled mischievously, "that I've been too successful!  You don't appear exactly overcome
with disappointment!"

They laughed together, but only for a moment.  Then he was serious again, appealing to her
in earnest tones.

"You won't range yourself against me, Claire?  You won't dissuade her.-- I love her very dearly,
and I know I can make her happy.  You won't make it hard for us?"

"Indeed, I won't!  Why should I?"  Claire cried heartily.  "I'm only too thankful.  Mother
needs someone to look after her, and I'd sooner you did it than anyone else.  I like you awfully--always
did, until I began to be afraid--I didn't want to marry you myself, but if mother does, I think
it's a splendid thing."

"Thank you, dear, thank you a thousand times.  That's a great relief." Robert Judge stretched
himself with a deep breath of satisfaction. Then he grew confidential, reviewing the past with
true lover-like enjoyment.

"I fell in love with her that first afternoon at the tennis club. Thought Bridges introduced
her as Miss Gifford, put her down at twenty- five, and hoped she wouldn't think me a hopeless
old fogey.  Never had such a surprise in my life as when she introduced you.  Thought for a
time I should have to give it up.  Then she asked my advice on one or two business matters,
and I discovered--" He hesitated, flushing uncomfortably, and Claire finished the sentence.

"That we are coming to the end of our resources?"

Mr Judge nodded.

"And so, of course," he continued simply, "that settled it.  I couldn't go away and leave her
to face a struggle.  I was jolly thankful to feel that I had met her in time."

"I think you are a dear, good man.  I think mother is very lucky.  Thank you so much for being
my step-papa!" cried Claire, her grey eyes softening with a charming friendliness as they dwelt
on the man's honest face, and he took her hand in his, and squeezed it with affectionate ardour.

"Thank you, my dear.  Thank you!  I shall be jolly proud of having such a pretty daughter.
I'm not a rich man, but I am comfortably well- off, and I'll do my best to give you a good
time.  Your mother feels sure she will enjoy the Indian life.  Most girls think it great fun.
And of course I have lots of friends."

Claire stared at him, a new seriousness dawning in her eyes.  She looked very pretty and very
young, and not a little pathetic into the bargain. For the first time since the realisation
of her mistake the personal application of the situation burst upon her, and a chill crept
through her veins.  If she herself had married Robert Judge, her mother would have made her
home with them as a matter of course; but it was by no means a matter of course that she should
make her home with her mother. She stared into the honest face of the man before her--the man
who was not rich, the man who was in love for the first time in his life, and a smile twisted
the corner of her lips.

"Mr Judge, if I ask you a question, will you promise to give me an absolutely honest answer?"

"Yes, I will."

"Well, then, will you like having a third person living with you all the time?"

Up to the man's forehead rushed the treacherous blood.  He frowned, he scowled, he opened his
lips to protest; but that flush had answered for him, and Claire refused to listen.  "No, no--don't!
Of course you wouldn't.  Who would, in your place?  Poor darlings--I quite understand. You
are middle-aged, you know, though you feel about nineteen, and mother is prettier and more
charming than half the girl brides.  And you will want to be just as young and foolish as you
like, not to be obliged to be sensible because a grown-up daughter is there all the time, staring
at you with big eyes?  I should be in the way, and I should feel in the way, and--"

Mr Judge interrupted in an urgent voice:

"Look here, Claire, I don't think you ought to corner me like this. It's not fair.  I've told
you that I am prepared to do everything for your happiness.  You ought surely to realise that I--"

"And you ought to realise that I--" Claire broke off suddenly, and held out her hand with a
charming smile.  "Oh, but there's plenty of time--we can arrange all that later on.  Let's
go and find mother and put her out of her misery.  She will be longing to see us come back."

They walked down the avenue together, and, as they went, Claire turned her head from side to
side, taking in the well-known scene with wistful intensity.  How many times would she see
it again?  As she had said, many discussions would certainly take place as to her future destination,
but she knew in her heart that the result was sure. Providence had decided or her.  The future
was London and work!

CHAPTER THREE.

MRS. GIFFORD IS MARRIED.

Claire lost no time in writing to Miss Farnborough to apply for the post of French mistress
if it were still vacant, and by return of post received a cordial reply.  Several applications
had been received, but no appointment had been made, and the Head was pleased to confirm her
previous offer of a commencing salary of a hundred and ten pounds, and would expect Miss Gifford
to take up her duties at the beginning of the autumn term.  She congratulated her on her decision,
and felt sure she would never regret devoting her life to so interesting and valuable a work,
instead of being content to waste it in the pursuit of idle pleasure.

Poor Claire looked a little dubious as she read those last words.  The pursuit of pleasure
does not as a rule begin to pall at twenty-one; and the old life looked very sweet and pleasant
viewed from the new standpoint of change.  She put on a bright face, however, and sternly repressed
all signs of depression in discussing the matter with her mother and Mr Judge.  Her determination
evoked the expected opposition, but slowly and surely the opposition decreased, and her arguments
were listened to with increasing respect.  The lovers were sincerely desirous of securing the
girl's happiness, but middle-aged though they were, they were deeply in love, and felt a natural
desire to begin their married life without the presence of a third person, however dear that
person might be.

Mr Judge applauded Claire's spirit, and prophesied her rapid success as a teacher.  Mrs Gifford
murmured sweetly, "And if you don't like it, dear, you can always come out by the next boat.
Try it for a year.  It will be quite an amusing experience to live the life of a bachelor girl.
And, of course, in a year or two we'll be coming home.  Then you must spend the whole leave
with us.  We'll see, won't we?  We won't make any plans, but just be guided by circumstances.
If you want somewhere to go in the holidays, there's my old Aunt Mary in Preston, but you'd
be bored to sobs, darling.  No doubt Miss Farnborough will introduce you to lots of nice people
in London, and you will have all the fifteen other mistresses to take you about.  I expect
you'll be quite gay! ... Claire, darling, would you have gold tissue under this ninon, or just
a handsome lace?"

For the next few weeks things moved quickly.  In answer to inquiries about lodgings, Miss Farnborough
wrote a second time to say that Miss Rhodes, the English mistress, had comfortable rooms which
she was sharing with the present French teacher.  She was willing to continue the arrangement,
and, as a stranger in town, Claire would doubtless find it agreeable as well as economical.
The letter was entirely business- like and formal, and, as such, a trifle chilling to Claire,
for Miss Farnborough had been so warm in her spoken invitation that Claire had expected a more
cordial welcome.  Could it be that the shadow of officialdom was already making itself felt?

The next few weeks were given up to trousseau-hunting and farewell visits, and no girl could
have shown a livelier interest in the selection of pretty things than did this bride of thirty-nine.
Claire came in for a charming costume to wear at the wedding, and for the rest, what fitted
her mother fitted herself, and as Mrs Gifford said sweetly, "It would be a sin to waste all
my nice things, but they're quite unsuitable for India.  Just use them out, darling, for a
month or two, and then get what you need," an arrangement which seemed sensible enough, if
one could only be sure of money to supply that need when it arose!

The day before her marriage Mrs Gifford thrust an envelope into her daughter's hand, blushing
the while with an expression of real distress.

"I'm so sorry, darling, that it's so little.  I've tried to be careful, but the money has flown.
Going out to India one needs so many clothes, and there were quite a number of bills.  I'll
send more by and by, and remember always to say if you run short.  I want you to have plenty
for all you need.  With what you have, this will see you nicely through your first term, and
after that you'll be quite rich."

Claire kissed her, and was careful not to look at the cheque until she was alone.  She had
counted on at least a hundred to put in the bank as a refuge against a rainy day.  Surely at
this parting of the ways mother would wish her to have this security; but when she looked at
her cheque, it was to discover that it was made out for fifty pounds--only half that sum. 
Claire felt sore at that moment, and for the first time a chill of fear entered into her anticipations.
Fifty pounds seemed a dreadfully small sum to stand between herself and want.  A hundred might
be only twice its value, but its three figures sounded so much more substantial. She struggled
hard to allow no signs of resentment to be seen, and felt that virtue was rewarded, when late
that evening Mr Judge presented her with yet another envelope, saying awkwardly--

"That's--er--that's the bridesmaid's present.  Thought you'd like to choose for yourself. 
Something to do, you know, some fine half-holiday, to go out and look in the shops.  I've no
views--don't get jewellery unless you wish.  Just--er--`blew it' your own way!"

Claire kissed him, and remarked that he was a sweet old dear; and this time the opening of
the envelope brought a surprise of an agreeable nature, for this cheque also was for fifty
pounds, so that the desired hundred was really in her possession.  No jewellery for her!  Into
the bank the money should go--every penny of it, and her bridesmaid present should be represented
by peace of mind, which, after the financial shock of the last month, seemed more precious
than many rubies.

Mr and Mrs Judge were married at the Embassy, and afterwards at an English church, the bride
looking her most charming self in a costume of diaphanous chiffon and lace and the most fascinating
of French hats, and the bridegroom his worst in his stiff conventional garments.  They were
a very radiant couple, however, and the dejeuner held after the ceremony at the "Hotel Britannique"
was a cheerful occasion, despite the parting which lay ahead.

The gathering was quite a large one, for Mr Judge had insisted upon inviting all the friends
who had been kind to his fiancee and her daughter during their three years' sojourn in the
city, while the pensionnaires at "Villa Beau Sejour" came en masse, headed by Madame herself,
in a new black silk costume, her white transformation elaborately waved and curled for the
occasion.

There were speeches, and there were toasts.  There were kindly words of farewell and cheerful
anticipations of future meetings, there were good wishes for the bride and bridegroom, and
more good wishes for the bridesmaid, and many protestations that it was "her turn next."

Then the bride retired to change her dress.  Claire went with her, and tried valiantly not
to cry as she fastened buttons and hooks, and realised how long it might be before she next
waited on her mother. Mrs Judge was tearful, too, and the two knew a bitter moment as they
clung together for the real farewell before rejoining the guests.

"I've been careless; I've made a mess of things.  I've not been half as thoughtful as I should
have been," sobbed the bride, "but I have loved you, Claire, and this will make no difference!
I shall love you just the same."

Claire flushed and nodded, but could not trust herself to speak.  The love of a mother in far-off
India could never be the same as the love of the dear companion of every day.  But she was
too generous to add to her mother's distress by refusing to be comforted, and the bride nervously
powdered her eyes, and re-arranged her veil before descending to the hall, anxious as ever
to shelve a painful subject, and turn her face to the sun.

Five minutes later Mr and Mrs Judge drove away from the door, and the girl who was left behind
turned slowly to re-enter the hotel.  It was very big, and fine, and spacious, but at that
moment it was a type of desolation in Claire's eyes.  With a sickening wave of loneliness she
realised that she was motherless and alone!

CHAPTER FOUR.

A FELLOW TRAVELLER INTRODUCES HERSELF.

The next afternoon Claire started on her journey to London.  She had spent the night with friends,
and been seen off at the station by quite a crowd of well-wishers.  Little souvenirs had been
showered upon her all the morning, and everyone had a kindly word, and a hopeful prophecy of
the future.  There were invitations also, and promises to look her up in her London home, and
a perfect shower of violets thrown into the carriage as the train steamed out of the station,
and Claire laughed and waved her hand, and looked so complacent and beaming that no one looking
on could have guessed the real nature of her journey.  She was not pretending to be cheerful,
she was cheerful, for, the dreaded parting once over, her optimistic nature had asserted itself,
and painted the life ahead in its old rosy colours.  Mother was happy and secured from want;
she herself was about to enjoy a longed-for taste for independence; then why grumble? asked
Claire sensibly of herself, and anything less grumbling than her appearance at that moment
it would be hard to imagine.

She was beautifully dressed, in the simplest but most becoming of travelling costumes, she
was agreeably conscious that the onlookers to her send-off had been unanimously admiring in
their regard, and, as she stood arranging her bags on the rack overhead, she saw her own face
in the strip of mirror and whole-heartedly agreed in their verdict.

"I'm glad I'm pretty!  It's a comfort to be pretty.  I should grow so tired of being with myself
if I were plain!" she reflected complacently as she settled herself in her corner, and flicked
a few grains of dust from the front of her skirt.

She had taken a through first-class ticket from sheer force of habit, for Mrs Gifford had always
travelled first, and the ways of economy take some time to acquire.  In the opposite corner
of the carriage sat an elderly woman, obviously English, obviously also of the grande dame
species, with aquiline features, white hair dressed pompadour fashion, and an expression compounded
of indifference and quizzical good humour. The good humour was in the ascendant as she watched
the kindly Belgians crowd round her fellow-passenger, envelop her in their arms, murmur tearful
farewells, and kiss her soundly on either cheek.  The finely marked eyebrows lifted themselves
as if in commiseration for the victim, and as the door closed on the last farewell she heaved
an involuntary sigh of relief.  It was evident that the scene appealed to her entirely from
the one standpoint; she saw nothing touching about it, nothing pathetic; she was simply amused,
and carelessly scornful of eccentricities in manner or appearance.

On the seat beside this imposing personage sat a young woman in black, bearing the hall mark
of lady's maid written all over her in capital letters.  She sat stiffly in her seat, one gloved
hand on her knee, the other clasped tightly round the handle of a crocodile dressing-bag.

Claire felt a passing interest in the pair; reflected that if it were her lot in life to be
a maid, she would choose to live on the Continent, where an affectionate intimacy takes the
place of this frigid separation, and then, being young and self-engrossed, promptly forgot
all about them, and fell to building castles in the air, in which she herself lived in every
circumstance of affluence and plenty, beloved and admired of all.  There was naturally a prince
in the story, a veritable Prince Charming, who was all that the most exacting mind could desire,
but the image was vague.  Claire's heart had not yet been touched.  She was still in ignorance
as to what manner of man she desired.

Engaged in these pleasant day-dreams Antwerp was reached before Claire realised that half the
distance was covered.  On the quay the wind blew chill; on the boat itself it blew chillier
still.  Claire became aware that she was in for a stormy crossing, but was little perturbed
by the fact, since she knew herself to be an unusually good sailor.  She tipped the stewardess
to fill a hot bottle, put on a cosy dressing-jacket, and lay down in her berth, quite ready
for sleep after the fatigue and excitement of the past week.

In five minutes the ship and all that was in it was lost in dreams, and, so far as Claire was
concerned, it might have been but another five minutes before the stewardess aroused her to
announce the arrival at Parkeston Pier.  The first glance around proved, however, that the
other passengers had found the time all too long.  The signs of a bad crossing were written
large on the faces of her companions, and there was a trace of resentment in the manner in
which they surveyed her active movements. An old lady in a bunk immediately opposite her own
seemed especially injured, and did not hesitate to put her feelings into words, "You have had
a good enough night!  I believe you slept right through...  Are you aware that the rest of
us have been more ill than we've ever been in our lives?" she asked in accusing tones.  And
Claire laughed her happy, gurgling little laugh, and said--

"I'm so sorry, but it's all over, isn't it?  And people always say that they feel better afterwards!"

The old lady grunted.  She certainly looked thoroughly ill and wretched at the moment, her
face drawn and yellow beneath her scanty locks, and her whole appearance expressive of an extremity
of fatigue.  It seemed to her that it was years since she had left the quay at Antwerp, and
here was this young thing as blooming as though she had spent the night in her own bed!  She
hitched a shawl more closely over her shoulders, and called aloud in a high imperious tone--

"Mason!  Mason!  You must really rouse yourself and attend to me.  We shall have to land in
a few minutes.  Get up at once and bring me my things!"

The covering of another bunk stirred feebly, and two feet encased in black merino stockings
descended slowly to the floor.  A moment later a ghastly figure was tottering across the floor,
lifting from a box a beautifully waved white wig, and dropping it carefully over the head of
the aggrieved old lady of the straggly locks.

It was all that Claire could do to keep from exclaiming aloud, as it burst upon her astonished
senses that this poor, huddled creature was none other than the grande dame of the railway
carriage, the haughtily indifferent, cynically amused personage who had seemed so supremely
superior to the agitations of the common ruck!  Strange what changes a few hours' conflict
with the forces of Nature could bring about!

Ill as the mistress was, the maid was even worse, and it was pitiful to see the poor creature's
efforts to obey the exigent demands of her employer.  In the end faintness overcame her, and
if Claire had not rushed to the rescue, she would have fallen on the floor.

"It's no use struggling against it!  You must keep still until the boat stops.  You'll feel
better at once when we land, and you get into the air."  Claire laid the poor soul in her bunk,
and turned back to the old lady who was momentarily growing younger and more formidable, as
she continued the stages of her toilette.

"Can I help you?" she asked smilingly, and the offer was accepted with gracious composure.

"Please do.  I should be grateful.  Thank you.  That hook fastens over here, and the band crosses
to this side.  The brooch is in my bag--a gold band with some diamonds--and the hat-pins, and
a clean handkerchief.  Can you manage? ...  The clasp slides back."

Claire opened the bag and gazed with admiration at a brown moire antique lining, and fittings
of tortoiseshell, bearing raised monograms in gold.  "I shall have one exactly to match, when
I marry my duke!" was the mental reflection, as she selected the articles mentioned and put
the final touches to the good lady's costume.

Later on there was Mason to be dressed; later on still, Claire found herself carrying the precious
dressing-bag in one hand, and supporting one invalid with the other, while Mason tottered in
the wake, unable for the moment to support any other burden than that of her own body.

Mrs Fanshawe--Claire had discovered the name on a printed card let into the lining of the bag--had
no sympathy to spare for poor Mason.  She plainly considered it the height of bad manners for
a maid to dare to be sea-sick; but being unused to do anything for herself, gratefully allowed
Claire to lead the way, reply to the queries of custom-house officials, secure a corner of
a first-class compartment of the waiting train, and bid an attendant bring a cup of tea before
the ordinary breakfast began.

Mason refused any refreshment, but Mrs Fanshawe momentarily regained her vigour, and was all
that was gracious in her acknowledgment of Claire's help.  The quizzical eyes roved over the
girl's face and figure, and evidently approved what they saw, and Claire, smiling back, was
conscious of an answering attraction.  Thoughtless and domineering as was her behaviour to
her inferior, there was yet something in the old lady's personality which struck an answering
chord in the girl's heart. She was enough of a physiognomist to divine the presence of humour
and generosity, combined with a persistent cheerfulness of outlook.  The signs of physical
age were unmistakable, but the spirit within was young, young as her own!

The mutual scrutiny ended in a mutual laugh, which was the last breaking of the ice.

"My dear," cried Mrs Fanshawe, "you must excuse my bad manners!  You are so refreshing to look
at after all those horrors on the boat that I can't help staring.  And you've been so kind!
Positively I don't know how I should have survived without you.  Will you tell me your name?
I should like to know to whom I am indebted for so much help."

"My name is Claire Gifford."

"Er--yes?"  Plainly Mrs Fanshawe felt the information insufficient. "Gifford!  I knew some
Giffords.  Do you belong to the Worcestershire branch?"

Claire hitched her shoulders in the true French shrug.

"Sais pas!  I have no English relations nearer than second cousins, and we have lived abroad
so much that we are practically strangers.  My father died when I was a child.  I went to school
in Paris, and for the last few years my mother and I have made our headquarters in Brussels.
She married again, only yesterday, and is going to live in Bombay."

Mrs Fanshawe arched surprised brows.

"And you are staying behind?"

"Yes.  They asked me to go.  Mr Judge is very kind.  He is my--er-- stepfather!"  Claire shrugged
again at the strangeness of that word. "He gave me the warmest of invitations, but I refused.
I preferred to be left."

Mrs Fanshawe hitched herself into her corner, planted her feet more firmly on the provisionary
footstool, and folded her hands on her knee. She had the air of a person settling down to the
enjoyment of a favourite amusement, and indeed her curiosity was a quality well-known to all
her acquaintances.

"Why?" she asked boldly, and such was the force of her personality that Claire never dreamt
for a moment of refusing to reply.

"Because I want to be independent."

Mrs Fanshawe rolled her eyes to the hat-rail.

"My dear, nonsense!  You're far too pretty.  Leave that to the poor creatures who have no chance
of finding other people to work for them. You should change your mind, you know, you really
should.  India's quite an agreeable place to put in a few years.  The English girl is a trifle
overdone, but with your complexion you would be bound to have a success. Think it over!  Don't
be in a hurry to let the chance slip!"

"It has slipped.  They sail from Marseilles a week from to-day, and besides I don't want to
change.  I like the prospect of independence better even than being admired."

"Though you like that, too?"

"Of course.  Who doesn't?  I'm hoping--with good luck--to be admired in England instead!"

"Then you mustn't be independent!"  Mrs Fanshawe said, laughing.  "It was the rage a year or
two ago; girls had a craze for joining Settlements, and running about in the slums, but it's
quite out of date. Hobble skirts killed it.  It's impossible to be utilitarian in a hobble
skirt...  And how do you propose to show your independence, may I ask?"

"I am going to be French mistress in a High School," Claire said sturdily, and hated herself
because she winced before the eloquent change of expression which passed over her companion's face.

Mrs Fanshawe said, "Oh, really!  How very interesting!" and looked about as uninterested the
while as a human creature could be.  In the pause which followed it was obvious that she was
readjusting the first impression of a young gentlewoman belonging to her own leisured class,
and preparing herself to cross-question an entirely different person--an ordinary teacher in
a High School!  There was a touch of patronage in her manner, but it was still quite agreeable
Mrs Fanshawe was always agreeable for choice: she found it the best policy, and her indolent
nature shrank from disagreeables of every kind.  This pretty girl had made herself quite useful,
and a chat with her would enliven a dull hour in the train.  Curiosity shifted its point, but
remained actively in force.

"Tell me all about it!" she said suavely.  "I know nothing about teachers.  Shocking, isn't
it?  They alarm me too much.  I have a horror of clever women.  You don't look at all clever.
I mean that as a compliment--far too pretty and smart, but I suppose you are dreadfully learned,
all the same.  What are you going to teach?"

"French.  I am almost as good as a Frenchwoman, for I've talked little else for sixteen years.
Mother and I spoke English together, or I should have forgotten my own language.  It seems,
from a scholastic point of view, that it's a useful blend to possess--perfect French and an
English temperament.  `Mademoiselle' is not always a model of patience!"

"And you think you will be?  I prophesy differently.  You'll throw the whole thing up in six
months, and fly off to mamma in India.  You haven't the least idea what you are in for, but
you'll find out, you'll find out!  Where is this precious school?  In town, did you say?  Shall
you live in the house or with friends?"

"I have no friends in London except Miss Farnborough, the head mistress, but there are fifteen
other mistresses besides myself.  That will be fifteen friends ready-made.  I am going to share
lodgings with one of them, and be a bachelor girl on my own account.  I'm so excited about
it.  After living in countries where a girl can't go to the pillar-box alone, it will be thrilling
to be free to do just as I like.  Please don't pity me!  I'm going to have great fun."

Mrs Fanshawe hitched herself still further into her corner and smiled a lazy, quizzical smile.

"Oh, I don't pity you--not one bit!  All young people nowadays think they are so much wiser
than their parents; it's a wholesome lesson to learn their mistake.  You're a silly, blind,
ridiculous little girl, and if I'd been your mother, I should have insisted upon taking you
with me, whether you liked it or not.  I always wanted a daughter like you--sons are so dull;
but perhaps it's just as well that she never appeared.  She might have wanted to be independent,
too, in which case we should have quarrelled.--So those fifteen school-mistresses make up your
whole social circle, do they?  I wouldn't mind prophesying that you'll never want to speak
a word to them out of school hours!  I have a friend living in town, quite a nice woman, with
a daughter about your age. Shall I ask her to send you a card?  It would be somewhere for you
to go on free afternoons, and she entertains a good deal, and has a craze for the feminist
movement, and for girls who work for themselves.  You might come in for some fun."

Claire's flush of gratification made her look prettier than ever, and Mrs Fanshawe felt an
agreeable glow of self-satisfaction.  Nothing she liked better than to play the part of Lady
Bountiful, especially when any effort involved was shifted onto the shoulders of another, and
in her careless fashion she was really anxious to do this nice girl a good turn.  She made
a note of Claire's address in a dainty gold-edged pocket-book, expressed pleasure in the belief
that through her friend she would hear reports of the girl's progress, and presently shut her
eyes, and dozed peacefully for the rest of the ride.

Round London a fine rain was falling, and the terminus looked bleak and cheerless as the train
slowed down the long platform.  Mason, still haggard, roused herself to step to the platform
and look around as if expecting to see a familiar face, and in the midst of collecting her
own impedimenta Claire was conscious that Mrs Fanshawe was distinctly ruffled, when the familiar
figure failed to appear.  Once more she found herself coming to the rescue, marshalling the
combined baggage to the screened portion of the platform where the custom-house officials went
through the formalities incidental to the occasion, while the tired passengers stood shiveringly
on guard, looking bleached and grey after their night's journey.  The bright-haired, bright-faced
girl stood out in pleasant contrast to the rest, trim and smart and dainty as though such a
thing as fatigue did not exist.  Mrs Fanshawe, looking at her, stopped short in the middle
of a mental grumble, and turned it round, so that it ended in being a thanksgiving instead.

"Most neglectful of Erskine to fail me after promising he would come... Perhaps, after all,
it's just as well he did not."

And at that moment, with the usual contrariety of fate, Erskine appeared!  He came striding
along the platform, a big, loosely-built man, with a clean-shaven face, glancing to right and
left over the upstanding collar of a tweed coat.  He looked at once plain and distinguished,
and in the quizzical eyes and beetling eyebrows there was an unmistakable likeness to the grande
dame standing by Claire's side. Just for a moment he paused, as he came in sight of the group
of passengers, and Claire, meeting his glance, knew who he was, even before he came forward
and made his greeting.

"Holla, Mater!  Sorry to be late.  Not my fault this time.  I was ready all right, but the
car did not come round.  Had a good crossing?"

"My dear, appalling!  Don't talk of it.  I was prostrate all night, and Mason too ill to do
anything but moan.  She's been no use."

"Poor beggar!  She looks pretty green.  But-- er--" The plain face lighted with an expectant
smile as he turned towards the girl who stood by his mother's side, still holding the precious
bag.  "You seem to have met a friend..."

"Oh--er--yes!"  With a gesture of regal graciousness Mrs Fanshawe turned towards the girl,
and held out her gloved hand.  "Thank you so much, Miss Gifford!  You've been quite too kind.
I'm really horribly in your debt.  I hope you will find everything as you like, and have a
very good time.  Thank you again.  Good-bye.  I'm really dropping with fatigue.  What a relief
it will be to get to bed!"  She turned aside, and laid her hand on her son's arm.  "Erskine,
where is the car?"

Mother and son turned away, and made their way down the platform, leaving Claire with crimson
cheeks and fast-beating heart.  The little scene which had just happened had been all too easy
to understand.  The nice son had wished for an introduction to the nice girl who a moment before
had seemed on such intimate terms with his mother: the mother had been quite determined that
such an introduction should not take place. Claire knew enough of the world to realise how
different would have been the proceedings if she had announced herself as a member of the "idle
rich," bound for a course of visits to well-known houses in the country. "May I introduce my
son, Miss Gifford?  Miss Gifford has been an angel of goodness to me, Erskine.  Positively
I don't know what I should have done without her!  Do look after her now, and see her into
a taxi.  Such a mercy to have a man to help!"  That was what would have happened to the Claire
Gifford of a week before, but now for the first time Claire experienced a taste of the disagreeables
attendant on her changed circumstances, and it was bitter to her mouth.  All very well to remind
herself that work was honourable, that anyone who looked down on her for choosing to be independent
was not worth a moment's thought, the fact remained that for the first, the very first time
in her life she had been made to feel that there was a barrier between herself and a member
of her own class, and that, however willing Mrs Fanshawe might be to introduce her to a casual
friend, she was unwilling to make her known to her own son!

Claire stood stiff and poker-like at her post, determined to make no movement until Mrs Fanshawe
and her attendants had taken their departure.  The storm of indignation and wounded pride which
was surging through her veins distracted her mind from her surroundings; she was dimly conscious
that one after another, her fellow-passengers had taken their departure, preceded by a porter
trundling a truck of luggage; conscious that where there had been a crowd, there was now a
space, until eventually with a shock of surprise she discovered that she was standing alone,
by her own little pile of boxes.  At that she shook herself impatiently, beckoned to a porter
and was about to walk ahead, when an uneasy suspicion made itself felt.  The luggage!  Something
was wrong.  The pile looked smaller than it had done ten minutes before. She made a rapid circuit,
and made a horrible discovery.  A box was missing!  The dress-box containing the skirts of
all her best frocks, spread at full length and carefully padded with tissue paper.  It had
been there ten minutes ago; the custom-house officer had given it a special rap.  She distinctly
remembered noticing a new scratch on the leather.  Where in the name of everything that was
inexplicable could it have disappeared?  Appealed to for information the porter was not illuminating.
"If it had been there before, why wasn't it there now? Was the lady sure she had seen it? 
Might have been left behind at Antwerp or Parkeston.  Better telegraph and see!  If it had
been there before, why wasn't it there now?  Mistakes did happen.  Boxes were much alike. 
P'raps it was left in the van.  If it was there ten minutes before, why wasn't it--"

Claire stopped him with an imperious hand.

"That's enough!  It was there: I saw it.  I counted the pieces before the custom-house officer
came along.  I noticed it especially.  Someone must have taken it by mistake."

The porter shook his head darkly.

"On purpose, more like!  Funny people crosses by this route.  Funny thing that you didn't notice--"

Claire found nothing funny in the reflection.  She was furious with herself for her carelessness,
and still more furious with Mrs Fanshawe as the cause thereof.  Down the platform she stalked,
a picture of vivid impetuous youth, head thrown back, cheeks aflame, grey eyes sending out
flashes of indignation.  Every porter who came in her way was stopped and imperiously questioned
as to his late load, every porter was in his turn waved impatiently away.  Claire was growing
seriously alarmed. Suppose the box was lost!  It would be as bad as losing two boxes, for of
what use were bodices minus skirts to match?  Never again would she be guilty of the folly
of packing bits of the same costumes in different boxes.  How awful--how awful beyond words
to arrive in London without a decent dress to wear!

Whirling suddenly round to pursue yet another porter, Claire became aware of a figure in a
long tweed coat standing on the space beside the taxi-stand, intently watching her movements.
She recognised him in a moment as none other than "Erskine" himself, who, having seen his mother
into her car, was presumably bound for another destination.  But why was he standing there?
Why had he been so long in moving away?  Claire hastily averted her eyes, but as she cross-questioned
porter number four, she was aware that the tall figure was drawing nearer, and presently he
was standing by her side, taking off his hat, and saying in the most courteous and deferential
of tones--

"Excuse me--I'm afraid something is wrong!  Can I be of any assistance?"

Claire's glance was frigid in its coldness; but it was difficult to remain frigid in face of
the man's obvious sincerity and kindliness.

"Thank you," she said quietly.  "Please don't trouble.  I can manage quite well.  It's only
a trunk..."

"Is it lost?  I say--what a fag!  Do let me help.  I know this station by heart!  If it is
to be found, I am sure I can get it for you."

This time there was a distinct air of appeal in his deep voice.  Claire divined that the nice
man was anxious to atone for his mother's cavalier behaviour, and her heart softened towards
him.  After all, why should she punish herself by refusing?  Five minutes more or less on the
station platform could make no difference one way or another, for at the end they would wish
each other a polite adieu, and part never to meet again.  And she did want that box!

She smiled, and sighed, and looked delightfully pretty and appealing, as she said frankly--

"Thank you, I should be grateful for suggestions.  It's the most extraordinary and provoking
thing--"

They walked slowly down the platform while she explained the situation, and reiterated the
fact that she had seen the box ten minutes before. Erskine Fanshawe did not dispute the statement
as each porter had done before him; he contented himself with asking if there was any distinctive
feature in the appearance of the box itself.

Claire shook her head.

"The ordinary brown leather, with strappings and C.G. on one side.  Just like a thousand other
boxes, but it had a label, beside the initials.  I don't see how anyone can have taken it by
mistake."  She set her teeth, and her head took a defiant tilt.  "There's one comfort; if it
is stolen, whoever has taken it will not get much for her pains!  There's nothing in it but
skirts.  Skirts won't be much good without the bodices to match!"

The man looked down at her, his expression comically compounded of sympathy and humour.  At
that moment, despite the irregularity of his features, he looked wonderfully like his handsome
mother.

"Er--just so!  Unfortunately, however, from the opposite point of view, you find yourself in
the same position!  Bodices, I presume, without skirts--"

Claire groaned, and held up a protesting hand.

"Don't!  I can't bear it.  It's really devastating.  My whole outfit--at one fell sweep!"

"Isn't it--excuse my suggesting it--rather a mistake to--er--divide pieces of the same garment,
so that if one trunk should be lost, the loss practically extends to two?"

"No, it isn't.  It's the only sensible thing to do," Claire said obstinately.  "Skirts must
be packed at full length, and a dress-box is made for that very purpose.  All the same, I shall
never do it again. It's no use being sensible if you have to contend with--thieves!"

"I don't think we need leap to that conclusion just yet.  You have only spoken to two or three
porters.  We'd better wait about a few minutes longer until the other men come back.  Very
likely the box was put on a truck by accident, and if the mistake was discovered before it
was put on the taxi, it would be sent back to see if its owner were waiting here.  If it doesn't
turn up at once, you mustn't be discouraged.  The odds are ten to one that it's only a mistake,
and in that case when the taxi is unloaded, the box will be sent back to the lost luggage office,
or forwarded to your address.  Was the full address on the box, by the way?"

Claire nodded assent.

"Oh, yes; I have that poor satisfaction at least.  I was most methodical and prudent, but I
don't know that that's going to be much consolation if I lose my nice frocks, and am too poor
to buy any more."

The last phrase was prompted by a proud determination to sail under no false colours in the
eyes of Mrs Fanshawe's son; but the picture evoked thereby was sufficiently tragic to bring
a cloud over her face.  The memory of each separate gown rose before her, looking distractingly
dainty and becoming; she saw a vision of herself as she might have been, and faced a future
bounded by eternal blue serge.  All the tragedy of the thought was in her air, and her companion
cried quickly--

"You won't need to buy them!  They'll turn up all right, I am quite sure of that.  The worst
that can happen is a day or two's delay.  After all, you know, there are thousands of honest
folk to a single thief, and even a thief would probably prefer a small money reward to useless
halves of dresses!  If you hear nothing by to-morrow, you might offer a reward."

"Oh, I will!"  Claire said gratefully.  "Thank you for thinking of it."

No more porters having for the moment appeared in sight, they now turned, and slowly retraced
their steps.  Claire, covertly regarding her companion, wondered why she felt convinced that
he was a soldier; Erskine Fanshawe in his turn covertly regarded Claire, and wondered why it
was that she seemed different from any girl he had seen before.  Then tentatively he put a
personal question.

"Do you know London well, Miss Gifford?  My mother told me you were-- er--coming to settle--"

"Not at all well, as a whole.  I know the little bit around Regent Street, and the Park, and
the places one sees in a week's visit, but that's all.  We never stayed long in town when we
came to England.  I shall enjoy exploring on half holidays when I am free from work.  I am
a school-mistress!" said Claire with an air, and gathered from her companion's face that he
knew as much already, and considered it a subject for commiseration.  He looked at her with
sympathetic eyes, and asked deeply--

"Hate it very much?"

"Not at all.  Quite the contrary.  I adore it.  At least, that's to say, I haven't begun yet,
but I feel sure I shall!"  Claire cried ardently; and at that they both laughed with a delightful
sense of understanding and camaraderie.  At that moment Claire felt a distinct pang at the
thought that never again would she have the opportunity of speaking and laughing with this
attractive, eminently companionable man; then her attention was distracted by the appearance
of two more porters, who had each to be interviewed in his turn.

They had no good news to give, however, so the searchers left the platform in disgust, and
repaired to the office for lost luggage, where the story of the missing box was recounted to
an unsympathetic clerk. When a man spends his whole life listening to complaints of missing
property, he can hardly be expected to show a vehement distress at the loss of yet another
passenger, but to Claire at this moment there was something quite brutal in his callous indifference.
The one suggestion which he had to make was that she could leave her name, and the manner in
which it was given was a death-blow to hope.

At this very moment, however, just as Claire was bending forward to dictate the desired information
she felt a touch on her arm, and looking in the direction of Mr Fanshawe's outstretched hand,
beheld a porter approaching the office, trundling before him a truck on which reposed in solitary
splendour, a long brown dress-box, and oh, joy of joys! even at the present distance the white
letters C.G. could be plainly distinguished on the nearer side!  Claire's dignity went to the
winds at that sight, and she dashed forward to meet her property with the joyous impetuosity
of a child.

The explanation was simple to a degree, and precisely agreed with Mr Fanshawe's surmise as
to what had really happened.  During Claire's trance of forgetfulness, the box had been wheeled
away, with a large consignment of luggage, and the mistake discovered only when the various
items were in process of being packed into a company's omnibus, when, there being no one at
hand to claim it, it had been conveyed--by very leisurely stages--to the lost luggage office.

All's well that ends well!  Claire gleefully collected her possessions, feeling a glow of delight
in the safety which an hour before she would have taken as a matter of course, and stood at
attention while each separate item was placed on the roof of the taxi.  The little addresses
of which she had boasted were duly inserted in leather framings on each box, the delicate writing
too small to be deciphered, except near at hand.  Claire saw her companion's eyes contract
in an evident effort to distinguish the words, and immediately moved her position so as to
frustrate his purpose.  She did not intend Mr Fanshawe to know her address!  When she was seated
in the taxi, however, there came an awkward moment, for her companion waved the chauffeur to
his seat, and stood by the window looking in at her, with a face which seemed unduly serious
and earnest, considering the extremely slight nature of their acquaintance.

"Well!  I am thankful the box turned up.  I shall think of you enjoying your re-united frocks...
Sure you've got everything all right?  Where shall I tell the man to drive?"

For the fraction of a second Claire's eyes flickered, then she spoke in decided tones.

"`The Grand Hotel.'"

Mr Fanshawe's eyes flickered too, and turned involuntarily towards the boxes on the roof. 
What exactly were the words on the labels he could not see, but at least it was certain that
they were not "The Grand Hotel!"  He turned from the inspection to confront a flushed, obstinate
face.

"Do you wish me to give the man that address?"

"I do."

Very deliberately and quietly Mr Fanshawe stepped back a pace, opened his long coat, and fumbled
in an inner pocket for a leather pocket-book; very quietly and deliberately he drew from one
bulging division a visiting card, and held it towards her.  Claire caught the word "Captain"
and saw that an address was printed in the corner, but she covered it hastily with her hand,
refusing a second glance.  Captain Fanshawe leant his arm on the window sash and said hesitatingly--

"Will you allow me to give you my card!  As you are a stranger in town and your people away,
there may possibly be--er--occasions, when it would be convenient to know some man whom you
could make of use.  Please remember me if they do come along!  It would be a privilege to repay
your kindness to my mother...  Send me a wire at any time, and I am at your service.  I hope
you will send.  Good morning!"

"Good-bye!" said Claire.  Red as a rose was she at that moment, but very dignified and stately,
bending towards him in a sweeping bow, as the taxi rolled away.  The last glimpse of Captain
Fanshawe showed him standing with uplifted hat, the keen eyes staring after her, with not a
glint of humour in their grey depths.  Quite evidently he meant what he said.  Quite evidently
he was as keen to pursue her acquaintance as his mother had been to drop it.

Claire Gifford sat bolt upright on her seat, the slip of cardboard clasped within her palms,
and as she sat she thought many thoughts.  A physiognomist would have been interested to trace
the progress of those thoughts on the eloquent young face.  There was surprise written there,
and obvious gratification, and a demure, very feminine content; later on came pride, and a
general stiffening of determination.  The spoiled child of liberty and the High School-Mistress
of the future had fought a heated battle, and the High School-Mistress had won.

Deliberately turning aside her eyes, so that no word of that printed address should obtrude
itself on her notice, Claire tore the card sharply across and across, and threw the fragments
out of the window.

A moment later she whistled through the tube, and instructed the chauffeur as to her change
of address.

Adieu to the Fanshawes, and all such luxuries of the past.  Heigh-ho for hard work, and lodgings
at fifteen shillings a week!

CHAPTER FIVE.

MISS RHODES, POISONER.

It is a somewhat dreary feeling to arrive even at a friend's house before seven o'clock in
the morning, and be received by sleepy-looking people who have obviously been torn unwillingly
from their beds in deference to the precepts of hospitality, but it is infinitely worse to
arrive at a lodging-house at the same hour, ring several times at the bell before a dingy servant
can be induced to appear, and to realise a moment later that in a tireless parlour you perceive
your journey's goal!

Claire Gifford felt a creep of the blood at the sight of that parlour, though if her first
introduction had been at night, when the curtains were drawn and the lamps lit, she would have
found it cosy enough. There was no sign of her room-mate; perhaps it was too much to expect
her to get up at so early an hour to welcome a stranger, but Claire had expected it, felt perfectly
sure that--had positions been reversed--she herself would have taken pains to deck both herself
and her room in honour of the occasion, and so felt correspondingly downcast.

Presently she found herself following the dingy maid up three separate nights of stairs, and
arriving at a tiny box of a bedroom on the top floor.  There was a bed, a washstand, a chest
of drawers doing service as a dressing-table, two chairs and a sloping roof.  Claire would
have been quite disappointed if that last item had been missing, for whoever heard of a girl
who set out to make her own living who had not slept in a room with a sloping roof?  On the
whole, despite its tiny proportions, the little room made a pleasant impression.  It was clean,
it was bright, walls and furniture were alike of a plain unrelieved white, and through the
open casement window could be seen a distant slope of green overtopping the intervening chimney
tops.  Claire's eyes roved here and there with the instinct of a born home-maker, saw what
was lacking here, what was superfluous there, grasped neglected possibilities, and mentally
re-arranged and decorated the premises before a slower person would have crossed the floor.

Then she took up her stand before the small mirror, and devoted a whole minute to studying
her own reflection from the point of view of Captain Erskine Fanshawe of unknown address. 
By her own deliberate choice she had cut herself off from future chance of meeting this acquaintance
of an hour; nevertheless it was distinctly reviving to discern that her hat was set at precisely
the right angle, and that for an all-night voyager her whole appearance was remarkably fresh
and dainty.

Claire first smiled, and then sighed, and pulled out the hat-pins with impatient tugs.  To
be prudent and self-denying is not always an exhilarating process for sweet and twenty.

Presently the maid came staggering upstairs with the smaller boxes, and Claire busied herself
in her room until the clock had struck eight, when she again descended to the joint sitting-room.
This time the fire was lighted, and the table laid for breakfast, and behind the tea-tray sat
Miss Rhodes, the English mistress, already halfway through her meal. She rose, half smiling,
half frowning, and held out a thin hand in welcome.

"Morning.  Hope you've had a good crossing.  Didn't know when you'd be down.  Do you take coffee?"

"Please!"  Claire felt that a cup of coffee would be just what she needed, but missed the familiar
fragrant scent.  She seated herself at the table, and while Miss Rhodes went on with her preparation,
studied her with curious eyes.

She saw a woman of thirty-two or three, with well-cut features, dark eyes, and abundant dark
hair--a woman who ought to have been distinctly good-looking but who succeeded in being plain
and commonplace.  She was badly-dressed, in a utility blouse of grey flannel, her expression
was tired and listless, and her hair, though neat, showed obvious lack of care, having none
of the silky sheen which rewards regular systematic brushing.  So far bad, but, in spite of
all drawbacks, it was an interesting face, and Claire felt attracted, despite the preliminary
disappointment.

"There's some bacon in that dish.  It will be cold, I'm afraid.  You can ring, if you like,
and ask them to warm it up, but they'll keep you waiting a quarter of an hour out of spite.
I've given it up myself."

"Oh, I'm accustomed to French breakfasts.  I really want nothing but some bread and coffee."
Claire sipped at her cup as she finished speaking, and the sudden grimace of astonishment which
followed roused her companion to laughter.

"You don't like it?  It isn't equal to your French coffee."

"It isn't coffee at all.  It's undrinkable!"  Claire pushed away her cup in disgust.  "Is it
always as bad as that?"

"Worse!" said Miss Rhodes composedly.  "They put in more this morning because of you.  Sometimes
it's barely coloured, and it's always chicory."  She shrugged resignedly.  "No English landlady
can make coffee.  It's no use worrying.  Have to make the best of what comes."

"Indeed I shan't.  Why should I?  I shan't try.  There's no virtue in drinking such stuff.
We provide the coffee--what's to hinder us making it for ourselves?"

"No fire, as a rule.  Can't afford one when you are going out immediately after breakfast."

Claire stared in dismay.  It had never occurred to her that she might have to be economical
to this extent.

"But when it's very cold?  What do you do then?"

"Put on a jersey, and nurse the hot-water jug!"

Claire grimaced, then nodded with an air of determination.

"I'll buy a machine!  There can be no objection to that.  You would prefer good coffee, wouldn't
you, if you could get it without any more trouble?"

"Oh, certainly.  I'll enjoy it--while it lasts!"

"Why shouldn't it last?"

Miss Rhodes stared across at the eager young face.  She looked tired, and a trifle impatient.

"Oh, my dear girl, you're New.  We are all the same at first--bubbling over with energy, and
determined to arrange everything exactly as we like.  It's a phase which we all live through.
Afterwards you don't care.  You are too tired to worry.  All your energy goes on your day's
work, and you are too thankful for peace and quietness to bother about details.  You take what
comes, and are thankful it's not worse."

Claire's smile showed an elaborate forbearance.

"Rather a poor-spirited attitude, don't you think?"

"Wait and see!" said the English mistress.

She rose and threw herself in a chair by the window, and Claire left the despised coffee and
followed her example.  Through the half-opened panes she looked out on a row of brick houses
depressingly dingy, depressingly alike.  About every second house showed a small black card
on which the word "Apartments" was printed in gilt letters.  Down the middle of the street
came a fruiterer's cart, piled high with wicker baskets.  The cry of "Bananas, cheap bananas,"
floated raucously on the air.  Claire swiftly averted her eyes and turned back to her companion.

"It is very good of you to let me share your appartement.  Miss Farnborough said she had arranged
it with you, but it must be horrid taking in a stranger.  I will try not to be too great a bore!"

But Miss Rhodes refused to be thanked.

"I'm bound to have somebody," said she ungraciously.  "Couldn't afford them alone.  You know
the terms?  Thirty-five shillings a week for the three rooms.  That's cheap in this neighbourhood.
We only get them at that price because we are out all day, and need so little catering." She
looked round the room with her tired, mocking smile.  "Hope you admire the scheme of decoration!
I've been in dozens of lodgings, but I don't think I've ever struck an uglier room; but the
people are clean and honest, and one has to put that before beauty, in our circumstances."

"There's a great deal of pattern about.  It hasn't what one could call a restful effect!" said
Claire, looking across at an ochre wall bespattered with golden scrawls, a red satin mantel-border
painted with lustre roses, a suite of furniture covered in green stamped plush, a collection
of inartistic pictures, and unornamental ornaments.  Even her spirit quailed before the hopelessness
of beautifying a room in which all the essentials were so hopelessly wrong.  She gave it up
in despair, and returned to the question of finance.

"Then my share will be seventeen and six!  That seems very cheap.  I am to begin at a hundred
and ten pounds.  How much extra must I allow for food?"

"That depends upon your requirements.  We have dinner at school; quite a good meal for ninepence,
including a penny for coffee afterwards."

"The same sort of coffee we have had this morning?"

"Practically.  A trifle better perhaps.  Not much."

"Hurrah!" cried Claire gaily.  "That's a penny to the good!  Eightpence for me--a clear saving
of fivepence a week!"

Miss Rhodes resolutely refused to smile.  She had the air of thinking it ribald to be cheerful
on the serious question of pounds, shillings and pence.

"Even so, it's three-and-four, and you can't do breakfast and supper and full board on Saturday
and Sunday under seven shillings.  It's tight enough to manage on that.  Altogether it often
mounts up to twelve."

"Seventeen and twelve."  Claire pondered deeply before she arrived at a solution.  "Twenty-nine.
Call it thirty, to make it even, and I am to begin at a hundred and ten.  Over two pounds a
week.  I ought to do it comfortably, and have quite a lot over."

Miss Rhodes laughed darkly.

"What about extras?" she demanded.  "What about laundry, and fires, and stationery and stamps?
What about boot-mending, and Tubes on wet days, and soap and candles, and dentist and medicines,
and subs, at school, and collections in church, and travelling expenses on Saturdays and Sundays,
when you invariably want to go to the very other side of the city?  London is not like a provincial
town.  You can't stir out of the house under fourpence or sixpence at the very least.  What
about illness, and amusement, and holidays?  What about--"

Claire thrust her fingers in her ears with an air of desperation.

"Stop!  Stop!  For pity's sake don't swamp me any more.  I feel in the bankruptcy court already,
and I had imagined that I was rich!  A hundred and ten pounds seemed quite a big salary.  Everybody
was surprised at my getting so much, and I suppose you have even more?"

"A hundred and fifty.  Yes!  You must remember that we don't belong to the ordinary rut of
worker--we are experts.  Our education has been a long costly business.  No untrained worker
could take our place; we are entitled to expert's pay.  Oh, yes, they are quite good salaries
if you happen to have a home behind you, and people who are ready to help over rough times,
instead of needing to be helped themselves.  The pity of it is that most High School-mistresses
come from families who are not rich.  The parents have made a big effort to pay for the girls'
education, and when they are fairly launched, they expect to be helped in return.  Some girls
have been educated by relations, or have practically paid for themselves by scholarships. 
Three out of four of us have people who are more in need of help than able to give it.  I give
my own mother thirty pounds a year, so we are practically on the same salary.  Have you a home
where you can spend your holiday? Holidays run away terribly with your money.  They come to
nearly four months in the year."

For the first time those prolonged holidays appeared to Claire as a privilege which had its
reverse side.  Friends in Brussels might possibly house her for two or three weeks; she could
not expect, she would not wish them to do more; and at the end there would still remain over
three months!  It was a new and disagreeable experience to look forward to holidays with dread!
For a whole two minutes she looked thoroughly depressed, then her invincible optimism came
to the top, and she cried triumphantly--

"I'll take a holiday engagement!"

The English mistress shook her head.

"That's fatal!  I tried it myself one summer.  Went with a family to the seaside, and was expected
to play games with the children all day long, and coach them in the evening.  I began the term
tired out, and nearly collapsed before the end.  Teaching is nerve-racking work, and if you
don't get a good spell off, it's as bad for the pupils as yourself.  You snap their heads off
for the smallest trifle.  Besides, it's folly to wear oneself out any sooner than one need.
It's bad enough to think of the time when one has to retire.  That's the nightmare which haunts
us more and more every year."

"Don't you think when the time comes you will be glad to rest?" asked innocent Claire, whereupon
Miss Rhodes glared at her with indignant eyes.

"We should be glad to rest, no doubt, but we don't exactly appreciate the prospect of resting
in the workhouse, and it's difficult to see where else some of us are to go!  There is no pension
for High School- mistresses, and we are bound to retire at fifty-five--if we can manage to
stick it out so long.  Fifty-five seems a long way off to you--not quite so long to me; when
you reach forty it becomes to feel quite near. Women are horribly long-lived, so the probability
is that we'll live on to eighty or more.  Twenty-five years after leaving off work, and--where
is the money to come from to keep us?  That's the question which haunts us all when we look
into our bank-books and find that, with all our pains, we have only been able to save at the
utmost two or three hundred pounds."

Claire looked scared, but she recovered her composure with a swiftness which her companion
had no difficulty in understanding.  She pounced upon her with lightning swiftness.

"Ah, you think you'll get married, and escape that way!  We all do when we're new, and pretty,
and ignorant of the life.  But it's fifty to one, my dear, that you won't?  You won't meet
many men, for one thing; and if you do, they don't like school-mistresses."

"Doesn't that depend a good deal on the kind of school-mistress?"

"Absolutely; but after a few years we are all more or less alike.  We don't begin by being
dowdy and angular, and dogmatic and prudish; we begin by being pretty and cheerful like you.
I used to change my blouse every evening, and put on silk stockings."

"Don't you now?"

"I do not!  Why should I, to sit over a lodging-house table correcting exercises till ten o'clock?
It's not worth the trouble.  Besides, I'm too tired, and it wears out another blouse."

Claire's attention was diverted from clothes by the shock of the reference to evening work.
She had looked forward to coming home to read an interesting book, or be lazy in whatever fashion
appealed to her most, and the corrections of exercises seemed of all things the most dull.

"Shall I have evening work, too?" she inquired blankly, and Miss Rhodes laughed with brutal
enjoyment.

"Rather!  French compositions on the attributes of a true woman, or, `How did you spend your
summer holiday?' with all the tenses wrong, and the idioms translated word for word.  And every
essay a practical repetition of the one before.  It's not once in a blue moon that one comes
across a girl with any originality of thought.  Oh, yes! that's the way we shall spend five
evenings a week.  You will sit at that side of the table, I will sit at this, and we'll correct
and yawn, and yawn and correct, and drink a cup of cocoa and go to bed at ten.  Lively, isn't it?"

"Awful!  I never thought of homework.  But if Saturday is a whole holiday there will still
be one night off.  I shall make a point of doing something exciting every Saturday evening."

"Exciting things cost money, and, as a rule, when you have paid up the various extras, there's
no money to spare.  I stay in bed till ten o'clock on Saturday, and then get up and wash blouses,
and do my mending, and have a nap after lunch, and if it's summer, go and sit on a penny chair
in the park, or take a walk over Hampstead Heath.  In the evening I read a novel and have a
hot bath.  Once in a blue moon I have an extravagant bout, and lunch in a restaurant, and go
to an entertainment--but I'm sorry afterwards when I count the cost.  On Sunday I go to church,
and wish some one would ask me to tea.  They don't, you know.  They may do once or twice, when
you first come up, but you can never ask them back, and your clothes get shabby, and you know
nothing about their interests, so they think you a bore, and quietly let you drop."

A smothered exclamation burst from Claire's lips; with a sudden, swirling movement she leapt
up, and fell on her knees before Miss Rhodes's chair, her hands clasping its arms, her flushed
face upturned with a desperate eagerness.

"Miss Rhodes! we are going to live together here, we are going to share the same room, and
the same meals.  Would you--if any one offered you a million pounds, would you agree to poison
me slowly, day by day, dropping little drops of poison into everything I ate and everything
I drank, while you sat by and watched me grow weaker and weaker till I died?"

"Good heavens, girl--are you mad!  What in the world are you raving about?"

Miss Rhodes had grown quite red.  She was indignant; she was also more than a little scared.
The girl's sudden change of mood was startling in itself, and she looked so tense, so overwhelmingly
in earnest.  What could she mean?  Was it possible that she was a little--touched?

"I suppose you don't realise it, but it's insulting even to put such a question."

"But you are doing it!  It's just exactly what you are beginning already.  Ever since I arrived
you've been poisoning me drop by drop. Poisoning my mind!  I am at the beginning of my work,
and you've been discouraging me, frightening me, painting it all black.  Every word that you've
said has been a drop of poison to kill hope and courage and confidence--and oh, don't do it!
don't go on!  I may be young and foolish, and full of ridiculous ideas, but let me keep them
as long as I can!  If all that you say is true, they will be knocked out of me soon enough,
and I--I've never had to work before, or been alone, and--and it's only two days since my mother
left me to go to India--all that long way--and left me behind!  It's hard enough to go on being
alone, and believing it's all going to be couleur de rose, but it will be fifty times harder
if I don't.  Please--please don't make it any worse!"

With the last words tears came with a rush, the tears that had been resolutely restrained throughout
the strain of the last week.  Claire dropped her head on the nearest resting-place she could
find, which happened to be Miss Rhodes's blue serge lap, and felt the quick pressure of a hand
over the glossy coils.

"Poor little girl!" said the English mistress softly.  "Poor little girl!  I'm sorry!  I'm
a beast!  Take no notice of me.  I'm a sour, disagreeable old thing.  It was more than half
jealousy, dear, because you looked so pretty and spry, so like what I used to look myself.
The life's all right, if you keep well, and don't worry too much ahead. There, don't cry! 
I loathe tears!  You will yourself, when you have to deal with silly, hysterical girls.  Come,
I'll promise I won't poison you any more--at least, I'll do my best; but I've a grumbling nature,
and you'd better realise it, once for all, and take no notice.  We'll get on all right.  I
like you.  I'm glad you came.  My good girl, if you don't stop, I'll shake you till you do!"

Claire sat back on her heels, mopped her eyes, and gave a strangled laugh.

"I hate crying myself, but I'll begin again on the faintest provocation. It's always like that
with me.  I hardly ever cry, but when I once begin--"

Miss Rhodes rose with an air of determination.

"We'd better go out.  I am free till lunch-time.  I'll take you round and show you the neighbourhood,
and the usual places of call.  It will save time another day.  Anything you want to buy?"

Claire mopped away another tear.

"C-certainly," she said feebly.  "A c-offee machine."

CHAPTER SIX.

THE INVITATION.

The next morning Claire was introduced to the scene of her new labours, and was agreeably impressed
with its outside appearance.  Saint Cuthbert's High School was situated in a handsome thoroughfare,
and had originally been a large private house, to which long wings had been added to right
and left.  On each side and across the road were handsome private houses standing in their
own grounds, owned by tenants who regarded the High School with lively detestation, and would
have borne up with equanimity had an earthquake swallowed it root and branch.

Viewed from inside, the building was less attractive, passages and class-rooms alike having
the air of bleak austerity which seems inseparable from such buildings; but when nine o'clock
struck, and the flood of young life went trooping up the stairways and flowed into the separate
rooms, the sense of bareness was replaced by one of tingling vitality.

As is usual on an opening day, every girl was at her best and brightest, decked in a new blouse,
with pigtails fastened by crisp new ribbons, and good resolutions wound up to fever point.
To find a new French mistress in the shape of a pretty well-dressed girl, who was English at
one moment, and at the next even Frenchier than Mademoiselle, was an unexpected joy, and Claire
found the battery of admiring young eyes an embarrassing if stimulating experience.

Following Miss Farnborough's advice, she spent the first day's lessons in questioning the different
classes as to their past work, and so turned the hour into an impromptu conversation class.
The ugly English accents made her wince, and she winced a second time as she realised the unpleasant
fact that just as her pupils would have to prepare for her, so would she be obliged to prepare
for them!  Forgotten rules of grammar must be looked up and memorised, for French was so much
her mother tongue that she would find it difficult to explain distinctions which came as a
matter of course.  That meant more work at night, more infringement of holiday hours.

The girls themselves were for the most part agreeable and well-mannered. The majority were
the daughters of professional men, and of gentle- folks of limited means; but there was also
a sprinkling of the daughters of better-class artisans, who paid High School fees at a cost
of much self-denial in order to train their girls for teachers' posts in the future.  Here
and there an awkward, badly-dressed child was plainly of a still lower class.  These were the
free "places"--clever children who had obtained scholarships from primary schools, and were
undergoing the ordeal of being snubbed by their new school-mates as a consequence of their success.

From the teacher's point of view these clever children were a welcome stimulus, but class feeling
is still too strong in England to make them acceptable to their companions.

At lunch-time the fifteen mistresses assembled in the Staff-Room, a dull apartment far too
small for the purpose, a common fault in High Schools, where the different governing bodies
are apt to spare no expense in providing for the comfort of the scholar, but grudge the slightest
expenditure for the benefit of those who teach.

Fifteen mistresses sat round the table eating roast lamb and boiled cabbage, followed by rhubarb
pie and rice pudding, and Claire, looking from one to the other, acknowledged the truth of
Miss Rhodes's assertion that they were all of a type.  She herself was the only one of the
number who had any pretensions to roundness of outline, all the rest were thin to angularity,
half the number wore pince-nez or spectacles, and all had the same strained pucker round the
eyes.  Each one wore a blue serge skirt and a white blouse, and carried herself with an air
of dogmatic assurance, as who should say: "I know better than any one else, and when I speak
let no dog bark!"  The German mistress was the veteran of the party and was probably a good
forty-five.  Miss Bryce, the Froebel mistress, paired with Claire herself for the place of
junior. Miss Blake, the Gym. mistress, was a graceful girl with an air of delicacy which did
not seem in accord with her profession.  Miss Rose, the Art mistress, was plain with a squat,
awkward figure.

Rising from the table, Claire caught a glimpse of her own reflection in the strip of mirror
over the chimney-piece, and at the sight a little thrill, half-painful, half-pleasant, passed
through her veins.  The soft bloom of her complexion, the dainty finish of her dress, differentiated
her almost painfully from her companions, and she felt a pang of dread lest that difference
should ever grow less.  While she affected to read one of the magazines which lay on a side
table, she was really occupied making a number of vehement resolutions: Never to slack in her
care of her personal appearance; never to give up brushing her hair at night; never to wear
a flannel blouse; never to give up manicuring her hands; never, no, never to allow herself
to grow short-sighted, and be obliged to submit to specs!

The different mistresses seemed to be on friendly terms, but there was an absence of the camaraderie
which comes from living under the same roof.  School was a common possession, but home hours
were spent apart, except when, as in Claire's own case, two mistresses shared the same rooms,
and it followed as a matter of course that personal interests were divided.  To-day the conversation
was less scholastic than usual, the intervening holidays forming a topic of interest.  The
Art mistress had been on a bicycle sketching tour with a friend; the German mistress had taken
a cheap trip home; Miss Blake announced that all her money had gone on "hateful massage," and
the faces of her listeners sobered as they listened, for Sophy Blake, who led the exercises
with such verve and go, had of late complained of rheumatic pains, and her companions heard
of her symptoms with dread.  What would become of Sophy if those pains increased?  One after
another the mistresses drifted over to where Claire sat turning the pages of her magazine,
and exchanged a few fragments of conversation, and then the great bell clanged again, and afternoon
school began.

The first half-hour of afternoon school proved the most trying of the day.  Claire was tired
after the exertions of the morning, and a very passion for sleep consumed her being.  She fought
against it with all her might, but the yawns would come; she fought against the yawns, and
the tears flowed.  To her horror the infection spread, and the girls began to yawn in their
turn, with long, uncontrolled gapes.  It was a junior class, and the new mistress shrewdly
suspected that the infection was welcomed as an agreeable interlude.  It was obvious that she
could not afford to reject that cup of coffee.  Good or bad it must be drunk! Rich or poor
that penny must be dedicated to the task of vitalising that first hour of sleepiness.

At the end of six weeks Claire felt as though she had been a High School-mistress all her life.
The regular methodical days, in which every hour was mapped out, had a deadening effect on
one who had been used to constant variety, and except for a difference in the arrangement of
classes there seemed no distinction between one and the other.  She was a machine wound up
to work steadily from Monday morning until Friday night, and absurdly ready to run down when
the time was over.

Every morning after breakfast she started forth with Miss Rhodes, by foot if the weather were
fine, by Tube if wet; every mid-day she dined in the Staff-Room with the fifteen other mistresses,
and gulped down a cup of chicory coffee.  At four o'clock the mistresses met once more for
tea, a free meal this time, supplemented by an occasional cake which one of the fifteen provided
for the general good.  At five she and her table companion returned to their rooms, and rested
an hour before taking the evening meal.

Claire was sufficiently French to be intolerant of badly cooked food, and instead of resigning
herself to eat and grumble, after the usual habit of lodging-house dwellers, resolutely set
to work to improve the situation.  The coffee machine had now a chafing-dish as companion,
and it was a delightful change of work to set the two machines to work to provide a dainty meal.

"High Tea" consisted as a rule of coffee and some light dish, the materials for which were
purchased on the way home.  On hungry days, when work had been unusually trying, the butcher
supplied cutlets, which were grilled with tomatoes, or an occasional quarter of a pound of
mushrooms: on economical days the humble kipper--legendary food of all spinsters in lodgings!--was
transformed into quite a smart and restaurant-ey dish, separated from its bones, pounded with
butter and flavouring, and served in neat little mounds on the top of hot buttered toast. 
Moreover, Claire was a proficient in the making of omelettes, and it was astonishing how large
and tempting a dish could be compounded of two eggs, and the minutest scrap of ham left over
from the morning's breakfast!

"Every luxury of the season, with the smell thrown in!  In nice cooking the smell is almost
the best part.  All the cedars in Lebanon wouldn't smell as good at this moment as this nice
ham-ey coffee-y frizzle," Claire declared one Friday evening as she served the meal on red-hot
plates, and glowed with delight at her own sleight of hand. "Don't you admire eggs for looking
so small, when they possess such powers of expansion?  All the result of beating.  Might make
a simile out of that, mightn't you?"

"Might, but won't," the English teacher replied, sipping luxuriously at her coffee.  "I'm not
a teacher any more at this moment.  I'm a gourmand, pure and simple, and I'll stay a gourmand
straight on till this omelette is finished.  When all trades fail, you might go out as a missioner
to women living in diggings, and teach them how to prepare their meals, and sell chafing-dishes
by instalment payments at the door, as the touts sell sewing machines to the maids.  It would
be a noble vocation!"

Claire smirked complacently.  "I flatter myself I have made a difference to your material comfort!
Poor we may be, but we do have nice, dainty little meals, and there's no reason why every able-bodied
woman shouldn't have them at the same cost.  I've just remembered another nice dish.  We'll
have it to-morrow night."  She paused, and a wistful look came into her eyes, for the next
day was Saturday, and it was on holiday afternoons that the feeling of loneliness grew most
acute.  School life was monotonous, but it was never lonely; from morning to night one lived
in a crowd, and already each class had furnished youthful adorers eager to sit at the feet
of the pretty new mistress, and bring her offerings of chocolates and flowers; for five long
days there was always a crowd, always a hum and babble of voices, but at the end of the week
came a dead calm.

On the first Saturday of the term Miss Farnborough had invited the new French mistress to tea,
and had been all that was friendly and encouraging; but since that time no word had passed
between them that was not strictly concerned with the work in hand, and Claire realised that
as one out of sixteen mistresses she could not hope for frequent invitations.

On one Sunday the Gym. mistress had offered her company for a walk, and there the list of hospitalities
ceased.  No invitations came from that friend of Mrs Fanshawe's who was so fond of girls who
were working for themselves.  Claire had hardly expected it, but she was disappointed all the
same.  A longing was growing within her to sit again in a pretty, daintily-appointed room,
and talk about something else than time-tables, and irregular verbs, and the Association of
Assistant Mistresses which, amalgamated with the Association of Assistant Masters and the Teachers'
Guild, were labouring to obtain a settled scale of salaries, and that great safeguard, desired
above all others, a pension on retirement!

On this particular Friday evening the longing was so strong that she had deliberately gone
out of her way to try to gain an invitation by walking home with a certain Flora Ross in the
sixth form, who was the most ardent of her admirers.  Flora lived in a cheerful-looking house
about a quarter of a mile from the school, and every morning hung over the gate waiting for
the chance occasions when her beloved Miss Gifford approached alone, and she could have the
felicity of accompanying her for the rest of the way.  On these occasions she invariably turned
to wave her hand to a plump, smiling mother who stood at a bay window waving in return.  An
upper window was barred with brass rods, against which two little flaxen heads bobbed up and
down.  Both the house and its inmates had a cheerful wholesome air, which made a strong appeal
to the heart of the lonely girl, and this Friday afternoon, meeting Flora waiting in the corridor,
she had accepted her companionship on the way home with a lurking hope that when the green
gate was reached, she would be invited to come inside.

Alas! no such thought seemed to enter Flora's brain.  She gazed adoringly into Claire's face
and hung breathlessly on her words, but for all her adoration there was a gulf between.  Claire
was the sweetest and duckiest of mistresses, but she was a mistress, a being shut off from
the ordinary interests of life.  When Flora said, "Isn't it jolly, we are going to have a musical
party to-morrow!  We have such lovely parties, and mother always lets me sit up!" she might
have been speaking to a creature without ears, for all the consciousness she exhibited that
Claire might possibly wish to take part in the fray.  When the green gate was reached, the
plump mamma was seen standing outside the drawing- room window and recognising the identity
of her daughter's companion, she bent her head in a courteous bow, but she made no attempt
to approach the gate.

"See you on Monday!" cried Flora fondly, then the gate clicked, and Claire walked along the
road with her head held high, and two red spots burning on either cheek.  That evening for
the first time she felt a disinclination to change into the pretty summer frock which she had
chosen as a compromise for evening dress; that evening for the first time the inner voice whispered
to her as it had done to so many before her: "What's the good?  Nobody sees you!  Nobody cares."

Miss Rhodes finished her share of the omelette, turned on to bread and jam, and cast a glance
of inquiry at her companion, who had relapsed into unusual silence.

"Anything wrong?"

"Yes, I think so.  Usual symptoms, I suppose.  I want to wear all my best clothes and go out
to do something gay and exciting, Cecil!"  The English teacher's name being Rhodes, it was
obvious that she should be addressed as Cecil, especially as her parents had been misguided
enough to give her the unsuitably gentle name of Mary.  "Cecil, do none of the parents ever
ask us out?"

"Why should they?"

"Why shouldn't they?  If we are good enough to teach their children, we are good enough for
them.  If they are interested in their children's welfare, they ought to make a point of knowing
us to see what kind of influence we use."

"Quite so."

"Well?"

"Well, my dear, there's only one thing to be said--they don't!  As I told you before, there's
a prejudice against mistresses.  They give us credit for being clever, and cultivated, and
hard-working; but they never grasp the fact that we are human girls, who would very much enjoy
being frivolous for a change.  I have been asked out to tea at rare intervals, and the mothers
have apologised for the ordinary conversation, and laboriously switched it on to books.  I
didn't want to talk books.  I wanted to discuss hats and dresses, and fashionable intelligence,
and sing comic songs, and play puss-in-the-corner, and be generally giddy and riotous; but
my presence cast a wet blanket over the whole party, and we discussed Science and Art.  Now
I'm old and resigned, but it's hard on the new hands.  I think it was rather brutal of your
mother to let you come to London without taking the trouble of getting some introductions.
Don't mind me saying so, do you?"

Claire smiled feebly.

"You have said it, anyhow!  I know it must seem unkind to anyone who does not know mother.
She's really the kindest person in the world, but she's very easy-going, and apt to believe
that everything will happen just as she wishes.  She felt quite sure that Miss Farnborough
and the staff would supply me with a whirl of gaiety.  There was one lady, who said she would
write to a friend--"

Cecil groaned deeply.

"I know that friend.  She comes from Sheffield.  A dear kind friend who would love to have
you out on holidays.  A friend who takes a special interest in school-mistresses.  A friend
who gives such nice inter-est- ing parties, and would certainly send you a card if she knew
your address.  Was that it, my dear--was that the kind of friend?"

Cecil chuckled with triumph at the sight of Claire's lengthening jaw. In truth there seemed
something uncanny in so accurate a reproduction of Mrs Fanshawe's description.  Was there,
indeed, no such person?  Did she exist purely as a dummy figure, to be dangled before the eyes
of credulous beginners?  Claire sighed, and buried her last lingering hope; and at that very
moment the postman's rap sounded at the door, and a square white envelope was handed in, addressed
in feminine handwriting to Miss Claire Gifford.

Claire tore it open, pulled forth a white card, gasped and flushed, and tossed it across the
table with a whoop of triumph.

"Raven, look at that!  What do you think now of your melancholy croaks?"

Cecil picked up the card, inscribed with the orthodox printed lines, beneath which a few words
had been written.

  Mrs Willoughby,
  At Home
  May 26th, 9 p.m.
  Music.

"Have just received your address from Mrs Fanshawe.  Shall hope to see you to-morrow.--E.B.W."

Cecil screwed up her face in disparagement.

"Nine o'clock.  Mayfair.  That means a taxi both ways.  Can't arrive at a house like that in
a mackintosh, with your shoes in a bag.  Much wiser to refuse.  It will only unsettle you,
and make you unfit for work. She's done the polite thing for once, because she was asked, but
she'll never do it again.  I've been through it myself, and I know the ropes. A woman like
that has hundreds of friends; why should she bother about you?  You'll never be asked again."

But at that Claire laughed, and beat her hand on the table.

"But I say I shall!  I say I'll be asked often!  I don't care if you've had a hundred experiences,
mine shall be different.  She has asked me once; now, as the Yankees say, `it's up to me' to
do the rest. I'll make up my mind to make her want to ask me!"

CHAPTER SEVEN.

TRANSFORMATION OF CECIL.

In the days to come when Claire looked back and reviewed the course of events which followed,
she realised that Mrs Willoughby's invitation had been a starting-point from which to date
happenings to others as well as herself.  It was, for instance, on the morning after its arrival
that Cecil's chronic discontent reached an acute stage.  She appeared at breakfast with a clouded
face, grumbled incessantly throughout the meal, and snapped at everything Claire said, until
the latter was provoked into snapping in return.  In the old days of idleness Claire had been
noted for the sunny sweetness of her disposition, but she was already discovering that teaching
lays a severe strain on the nerves, and at the end of a week's work endurance seemed at its
lowest ebb.  So, when her soft answers met rebuff after rebuff, she began to grumble in her
turn, and to give back as good as she got.

"Really, Cecil, I am exceedingly sorry that your form is so stupid, and your work so hard,
but I am neither a pupil nor a chief, so I fail to see where my responsibility comes in.  Wouldn't
it be better if you interviewed Miss Farnborough instead of me?"

It was the first time that Claire had answered sharply, and for the moment surprise held Cecil
dumb.  Then the colour flamed into her cheeks, and her eyes sparkled with anger.  Though forbearance
had failed to soothe her, opposition evidently added fuel to the fire.

"Miss Farnborough!" she repeated jeeringly.  "What does Miss Farnborough care for the welfare
of her mistresses, so long as they grind through their daily tasks?  It is the pupils she thinks
about, not us.  The pupils who are to be pampered and considered, and studied, and amused in
school and out.  They have to have games in summer, and a mistress has to give up her spare
time to watch the pretty dears to see that they don't get into trouble; and they must have
parties, and concerts, and silly entertainments in winter, with some poor wretch of a mistress
to do all the work so that they may enjoy the fun.  Miss Farnborough is an exemplary Head so
far as her scholars are concerned, but what does she do for her mistresses?  I ask you, does
she do anything at all?"

Claire considered, and was silent.  Her first term was nearly over, and she could not truthfully
say that the Head had taken any concern for her as an individual who might be expected to feel
some interest in life beyond the school door.  It is true that almost every day brought the
two in contact for the exchange of a few words which, if strictly on business, were always
pleasant and kindly, but except for the one invitation to tea on the day before work began,
they had never met out of school hours.  Claire was a stranger in London, yet the Head had
never inquired as to her leisure hours, never invited her to her house, or offered, her an
introduction to friends, never even engaged the sympathies of other mistresses on her behalf.
Claire had expected a very different treatment, and had struggled against a sense of injury,
but she would not acknowledge as much in words.

"I suppose Miss Farnborough is even more tired than we are.  She has a tremendous amount of
responsibility.  And she has a brother and sister at home.  Perhaps they object to an incursion
of school in free hours."

"Then she ought to leave them, and live where she can do her duty without interference.  After
all mistresses are girls, too, not very much older than some of the pupils when we begin work;
it's inhuman to take no interest in our welfare.  It wouldn't kill a Head to give up a night
a month to ask us to meet possible friends, or to write a few letters of introduction.  You
agree with me in your heart, so it's no use pretending.  It's a moral obligation, if it isn't
legal, and I say part of the responsibility is hers if things go wrong.  It's inhuman to leave
a young girl alone in lodgings without even troubling to inquire if she has anywhere to go
in her leisure hours.  But it's the same tale all round.  Nobody thinks.  Nobody cares.  I've
gone to the same church for three years, and not a soul has spoken to me all that time.  I've
no time to give to Church work, and the seats are free, so there's no way of getting into touch.
I don't suppose any one has ever noticed the shabby school-mistress in her shabby blue serge."

Suddenly Mary Rhodes thrust back her chair, and rising impetuously began to storm up and down
the room.

"Oh, I'm tired, I'm tired of this second-hand life.  Living in other people's houses, teaching
other people's children, obeying other people's orders.  I'm sick of it.  I can't stand it
a moment longer. I'd rather take any risk to be out of it.  After all, what could be worse?
Any sort of life lived on one's own must be better than this. Nearly twelve years of it--and
if I have twenty more, what's the end? What is there to look forward to?  Slow starvation in
a bed-sitting- room, for perhaps thirty years.  I won't do it, I won't!  I've had enough. 
Now I shall choose for myself!"

Like a whirlwind she dashed out of the room, and Claire put her elbow on the table and leant
her head on her hands, feeling shaken, and discouraged, and oppressed.  For the first time
a doubt entered her mind as to whether she could continue to live with Mary Rhodes.  In her
brighter modes there was much that was attractive in her personality, but to live with a chronic
grumbler sapped one's own powers of resistance.  Claire felt that for the sake of her own happiness
and efficiency it would be wiser to make a change, but her heart sank at the thought of making
a fresh start, of perhaps having to live alone with no one to speak to in the long evenings.
The life of a bachelor girl made little appeal at that moment.  Liberty seemed dearly bought
at the price of companionship.

Claire spent the morning writing to her mother and reading over the series of happy letters
which had reached her week after week.  Mrs Judge was in radiant spirits, delighted with the
conditions of her new life, full of praise of her husband and the many friends to whom she
had been introduced.  Three-fourths of the letter were taken up with descriptions of her own
gay doings, the remaining fourth with optimistic remarks on her daughter's life.  How delightful
to share rooms with another girl!  What a nice break to have every Saturday and Sunday free!
What economical rooms!  Claire must feel quite rich.  What fun to have the girls so devoted!

Claire made an expressive grimace as she read that "quite rich."  This last week she had been
obliged to buy new gloves, and to have her boots mended.  A new umbrella had been torn by the
carelessness with which another teacher had thrust her own into the crowded stand, and one
night she had been seized with a longing for a dainty well-cooked meal, and had recklessly
stood treat at a restaurant.  She did not feel at all "rich" as she made up the week's account,
and reflected that next week the expense of driving to Mrs Willoughby's "At Home" would again
swell up the total of these exasperating "extras" which made such havoc of advance calculations.

Cecil did not appear until lunch was on the table, when she flung the door wide open and marched
in with an air of bravado, as if wanting her companion to stare at once and get over it.  It
would have been impossible not to stare, for the change in her appearance was positively startling
to behold.  Her dark hair was waved and fashionably coiffed. Her best coat and skirt had been
embellished with frills of lace at neck and sleeves, a pretty little waistcoat had been manufactured
out of a length of blue ribbon and a few paste buttons, while a blue feather necklet had been
promoted a step higher, and encircled an old straw hat. The ribbon bow at the end of the boa
exactly matched the shade of the waistcoat, and was cocked up at a daring angle, while a becoming
new veil and a pair of immaculate new gloves added still further to the effect.

Claire had always suspected that Cecil could be pretty if she chose to take the trouble, and
now she knew it for a fact.  It was difficult to realise that this well-groomed-looking girl,
with the bright eyes and softly-flushed cheeks, could really be the same person as the frumpy-
looking individual who every morning hurried along the street.

Involuntarily Claire threw up her hands; involuntarily she cried aloud in delight "Cheers!
Cheers!  How do you do, Cecil?  Welcome home, Cecil!--the real Cecil!  How pretty you are,
Cecil!  How well that blue suits you!  Don't dare to go back to your dull navy and black. 
I shall insist that you always wear blue.  I feel quite proud of having such a fine lady to
lunch.  You are going to have lunch, aren't you?  Why those gloves and veil?"

"Oh, well--I'm not hungry.  I'll have some coffee.  I may have lunch in town."  Cecil was plainly
embarrassed under her companion's scrutiny. She pushed up her veil, so that it rested in a
little ridge across her nose, craned forward her head, sipping her coffee with exaggerated
care, so that no drop should fall on her lacy frills.

Claire longed to ask a dozen questions, but something in Cecil's manner held her at bay, and
she contented herself with one inquiry--

"What time will you be home?"

Cecil shrugged her shoulders.

"Don't know.  Perhaps not till late."  She was silent for a moment, then added with sudden
bitterness, "You are not the only person who has invitations.  If I chose, I could go out every
Saturday."

"Then why on earth are you always grumbling about your loneliness?" thought Claire swiftly,
but she did not put the thought into words. After the warmth of her own welcome, a kinder response
was surely her due; she was angry, and would not condescend to reply.

The meal was finished in silence, but when Cecil rose to depart, the usual compunction seized
her in its grip.  She stood arranging her veil before the mirror over the mantelpiece, uttering
the usual interjectory expressions of regret.

"Sorry, Claire.  I'm a wretch.  You must hate me.  I ought to be shot. Nice Saturday morning
I've given you!  What are you going to do this afternoon?"

Claire's eyes turned towards the window with an expression sad to see on so young a face--an
imprisoned look.  Her voice seemed to lose all its timbre as she replied in one flat dreary word--

"Nothing!"

A spasm of irresolution passed across Cecil's face.  For a moment she looked as if she were
about to throw aside her own project and cast in her lot with her friend's.  Then her face
hardened, and she turned towards the door.

"Why not call for Sophie Blake, and see if she will go a walk?  She asked you once before."

With that she was gone, and Claire was left to consider the proposition. Sophie Blake, the
Games mistress, was the single member of the staff who had shown any disposition towards real
friendship, though the intimacy was so far confined to one afternoon's walk, and an occasional
chat in the dinner hour, but this afternoon the thought of her merry smile acted as an irresistible
magnet.  Claire ran upstairs to get ready, in a panic lest she might arrive at Sophie's lodgings
to find she had already gone out for the afternoon.  Cecil had hinted that she might not return
until late, and suddenly it seemed unbearable to spend the rest of the day in solitude.  Restlessness
was in the air, first the pleasurable restlessness caused by the receipt of Mrs Willoughby's
invitation, then the disagreeable restlessness caused by Cecil's erratic behaviour.  As she
hurried through the streets towards Sophie Blake's lodgings, Claire pondered over the mystery
of this sudden development on Cecil's part.  Where was she going?  Whom was she going to see?
Why declare with one breath that she was without a friend, and with the next that if she chose
she might accept invitations every week?  What special reason had to-day inspired such unusual
care in her appearance?

Sophie was at home.  Lonely Claire felt quite a throb of relief as she heard the welcome words.
She entered the oil-clothed passage and was shown into a small, very warm, very untidy front
parlour wherein stood Sophie herself, staring with widened eyes at the opening door.

"Oh, it's you!" she cried.  "What a fright you gave me!  I couldn't think who it could be.
Come in!  Sit down!  Can you find a free chair?  Saturday is my work day.  I've been darning
stockings, and trimming a hat, and ironing a blouse, and washing lace, and writing letters
all in a rush.  I love a muddle on Saturdays.  It's such a change after routine all the week.
What do you think of the hat?  Seven and sixpence, all told.  I flatter myself it looks worth
every penny of ten.  Don't pull down that cloth.  The iron's underneath.  Be careful of that
table!  The ink-pot's somewhere about.  How sweet of you to call! I'll clear this muddle away
and then we can talk ...  Oh, my arm!"

"What's the matter with the arm?"

Sophie shrugged carelessly.

"Rheumatism, my dear.  Cheerful, isn't it, for a gym. mistress?  It's been giving me fits all
the week."

"The east winds, I suppose.  I know they make rheumatism worse."

"They do.  So does damp.  So does snow.  So does fog.  So does cold.  So does heat.  If you
could tell me of anything that makes it better, I'd be obliged.  Bother rheumatism!  Don't
let's talk of it...  It's Saturday, my dear.  I never think of disagreeables on Saturday. 
Where's Miss Rhodes this afternoon?"

"I don't know.  She made herself look very nice and smart--she can be very nice-looking when
she likes!--and went out for the day."

"Humph!"  Sophie pursed her lips and contracted her brows as if in consideration of a knotty
point.  "She was awfully pretty when I came to the school ten years ago.  And quite jolly and
bright.  You wouldn't know her for the same girl.  She's a worrier, of course, but it's more
than that.  Something happened about six years ago, which took the starch out of her once for
all.  A love affair, I expect.  Perhaps she's told you...  I'm not fishing, and it's not my
business, but I'm sorry for the poor thing, and I was sorry for you when I heard you were going
to share her room.  She can't be the most cheerful companion in the world!"

"Oh, she's quite lively at times," Claire said loyally, "and very appreciative.  I'm fond of
her, you know, but I wish she didn't grumble quite so much."  She looked round the parlour,
which was at once bigger and better furnished than the joint apartment in Laburnum Crescent,
and seized upon an opportunity of changing the subject.  "You have a very nice room."

Sophie Blake looked round with an air half proud, half guilty.

"Y-es.  Too nice.  I've no business to spend so much, but I simply can't stand those dreadful
cheap houses.  People are always fussing and telling one to save up for old age.  I think it
matters far more to have things nice in one's youth.  I get a hundred and thirty a year, and
have to keep myself all the year round and help to educate a young sister. We are orphans,
and the grown-ups have to keep her between us.  I couldn't save if I wanted to, so what's the
use of worrying?  I don't care very much what happens after fifty-five.  Perhaps I shall be
married.  Perhaps I shall be dead.  Perhaps some nice kind millionaire will have taken a fancy
to me, and left me a fortune.  If the worst comes to the worst, I'll go into a home for decayed
gentlewomen and knit stockings--no, not stockings, I should never be able to turn the heels--
long armlet things, like mittens, without the thumbs.  Look here.  Where shall we go?  Isn't
it a shame that all the nice shops close early on Saturday?  We might have had such sport walking
along Knightsbridge, choosing what we'd like best from every window.  Have you ever done that?
It's ripping fun.  What about Museums?  Do you like Museums? Rather cold for the feet, don't
you think?  What can we do that's warm and interesting, and exciting, and doesn't cost more
than eighteenpence?"

Claire laughed gleefully, not at the thought of the eighteenpenny restriction, but from pure
joy at finding a companion who could face life with a smile, and find enjoyment from such simple
means as imaginary purchases from shop windows.  Oh, the blessed effect of a cheerful spirit!
How inspiriting it was after the constant douche of discouragement from which she had suffered
for the last nine weeks!

"Oh, bother eighteenpence!  This is my treat, and we are going to enjoy ourselves, or know
the reason why.  I've got a lot of money in the bank, and I'm just in the mood to spend.  We'll
go to the Queen's Hall, and then on to have tea in a restaurant.  You would like to hear some
music?"

"So long as it is not a chorus of female voices--I should!  I'm a trifle fed up with female
voices," cried Sophie gaily.  She picked up her newly-trimmed hat from the table and caressed
it fondly.  "Come along, darling.  You're going to make your debut!"

CHAPTER EIGHT.

THE RECEPTION.

It was almost worth while leading a life of all work and no play for six weeks on end, for
the sheer delight of being frivolous once more; of dressing oneself in one's prettiest frock,
drawing on filmy silk stockings and golden shoes, clasping a pearl necklace round a white throat
and cocking a feathery aigrette at just the right angle among coppery swathes of hair.  No
single detail was wanting to complete the whole, for in the old careless days Claire's garments
had been purchased with a lavish hand, the only anxiety being to secure the most becoming specimen
of its kind.  There were long crinkly gloves, and a lace handkerchief, and a fan composed of
curling feathers and mother-of-pearl sticks, and a dainty bag hanging by golden cords, and
a cloak of the newest shape, composed of layers of different-tinted chiffons, which looked
more like a cloud at sunset than a garment manufactured by human hands and supposed to be of use!

Claire tilted her little mirror to an acute angle, gave a little skip of delight as she surveyed
the completed whole, and then whirled down the narrow staircase, a flying mist of draperies,
through which the little gold-clad feet gleamed in and out.  She whirled into the sitting-room,
where the solitary lamp stood on the table, and Cecil lay on the humpy green plush sofa reading
a novel from the Free Library.  She put down the book and stared with wide eyes as Claire gave
an extra whirl for her benefit, and cried jubilantly--

"Admire me!  Admire me!  I'm dying to be admired!  Don't I look fine, and smart, and unsuitable!
Will any one in the world mistake me for a High School-mistress!"

Cecil rose from the sofa, and made a solemn tour of inspection. Obviously she was impressed,
obviously she admired, obviously also she found something startling in her inspection.  There
was pure feminine interest in the manner in which she fingered each delicate fabric in turn,
there was pure feminine kindness in the little pat on the arm which announced the close of
the inspection.

"My dear, it's ripping!  Rich and rare isn't in it.  You look a dream. Poor kiddie!  If this
is the sort of thing you've been used to, it's been harder for you than I thought!  Yes, horribly
unsuitable, and when it's worn-out, you'll never be able to have another like it.  White ponge
will be your next effort."

"Bless your heart, I've three others just as fine, and these skimpy skirts last for an age.
No chance of any one planting a great foot on the folds and tearing them to ribbons as in the
old days.  There are no folds to tread on."

But Cecil as usual was ready with her croak.

"Next year," she said darkly, "there will be flounces.  Before you have a chance of wearing
your four dresses, everybody will be fussy and frilly, and they'll be hopelessly out of date."

"Then I'll cut up two and turn them into flounces to fuss out the others!" cried Claire, the
optimist, and gave another caper from sheer lightness of heart.  "How do you like my feet?"

"I suppose you mean shoes.  A pretty price you paid for those.  I'm sure they're too tight!"

"Boats, my dear, boats!  I've had to put in a sole.  Didn't you know my feet were so small?
How do you like my cloak?  It's meant to look like a cloud.  Layers of blue, pink and grey,
`superimposed,' as the fashion papers have it.  Or should you say it was more like an opal?"

"No, I should not.  Neither one nor the other.  Considered as a cloak for a foggy November
evening, I should call it a delusion and a fraud. You'll get a chill.  I've a Shetland shawl.
I'll lend it to you to wrap round your shoulders."

"No, you won't!"  Claire cried defiantly.  "Shetland shawl indeed!  Who ever heard of a girl
of twenty-one in a Shetland shawl?  I'm going to a party, my dear.  The joy of that thought
would keep me warm through a dozen fogs."

"You'll have to come back from the party, however, and you mayn't feel so jubilant then.  It's
not too exciting when you don't know a soul, and sit on one seat all evening.  I knew a girl
who went to a big crush and didn't even get a cup of coffee.  Nobody asked her to go down."

Claire swept her cloak to one side, and sat down on a chair facing the sofa, her white gloves
clasped on her knee, the embroidered bag hanging by its golden cords to the tip of the golden
slippers.  She fixed her eyes steadily on her companion, and there was in them a spark of anger,
before which Cecil had the grace to flush.

"Sorry!  Really I am sorry--"

  "`Repentance is to leave
  The sins we loved before,
  And show that we in earnest grieve
  By doing so No More!'"

quoted Claire sternly.  "Really, Cecil, you are the champion wet blanket of your age.  It is
too bad.  I have to do all the perking up, and you can't even let me go to a party without
damping my ardour.  I was thinking it over the other night, and I've hit on a promising plan.
I'm going to allow you a grumble day a week--but only one.  On that day you can grumble as
much as ever you like, from the moment you get up till the moment you go to bed.  You'll be
within your rights, and I shall not complain.  I'll have my own day, too, when you can find
out what it feels like to listen, but won't be allowed to say a word in return.  For the rest
of the week you'll just have to grin and bear it.  You won't be allowed a single growl."

Cecil knitted her brows, and looked ashamed and uncomfortable, as she invariably did when taxed
with her besetting sin.  Claire's charge on mental poisoning had struck home, and she had honestly
determined to turn over a new leaf; but the habit had been indulged too long to be easily abandoned.
Unconsciously, as it were, disparaging remarks flowed from her lips, combined with a steady
string of objections, adverse criticisms, and presentiments of darkness and gloom.  At the
present moment she felt a little startled to realise how firmly the habit was established,
and the proposal of a licenced grumble day held out some promise of a cure.

"Then I'll have Monday!" she cried briskly.  "I am always in a bad temper on Mondays, so I
shall be able to make the most of my chance." She was silent for a moment considering the prospect,
then was struck with a sudden thought.  "But now and then I do have a nice week-end, and then
I shouldn't want to grumble at all.  I suppose I could change the day?"

There was a ring of triumph in Claire's laugh.

"Not you!  My dear girl, that's just what I am counting upon!  Sometimes the sun will shine,
sometimes you'll get a nice letter, sometimes the girls will be intelligent and interesting,
and then, my dear, you'll forget, and the day will skip past, and before you know where you
are it will be Tuesday morning and your chance will have gone.  Cecil, fancy it!  A whole fortnight
without a grumble.  It seems almost too good to be true!"

"It does!" said the English mistress eloquently.  She sat upright on the green plush sofa,
her shabby slippers well in evidence beneath the edge of her shabby skirt, staring with curious
eyes at the radiant figure of the girl in the opposite chair.  "I don't think you need a day
at all!"

"Because I'm going to a solitary party?  Only two minutes ago, my love, you were sympathising
with my hard lot!  I shall have Fridays.  I'm tired on Fridays, and it's getting near the time
for making up accounts. I can be quite a creditable grumbler on Fridays."

"Well, just as you like!  You are going to the party, I suppose? Haven't changed your mind
by any chance, and determined to spend the evening hectoring me!  If you are going, you'd better
go.  I'll sit up for you and keep some cocoa--"

Claire rose with a smile.

"I appreciate the inference!  Starved and disillusioned, I am to creep home and weep on your
bosom.  Well, we'll see!  Good-bye for the present.  I'll tell you all about it when I get back..."

A minute's whistling at the front door produced a taxi, in which Claire seated herself and
was whirled westward through brightly lighted streets.  In the less fashionable neighbourhoods
the usual Saturday crowd thronged round the shops and booths, making their purchases at an
hour when perishable goods could be obtained at bargain prices.  Claire and Cecil had themselves
made such expeditions before now, coming home triumphant with some savoury morsel for supper,
and with quite a lavish supply of flowers to deck the little room.  At the time the expeditions
had been pleasant enough, and there had seemed nothing in the least infra dig in taking advantage
of the opportunity; but to-night the girl in the cloudy cloak looked through the windows of
her chariot with an ineffable condescension, and found it difficult to believe that she herself
had ever made one of so insignificant a throng!

"How I do love luxury!  It's the breath of my nostrils," she said to herself with a little
sigh of content, as she straightened herself in her seat, and smiled back at her own reflection
in the strip of mirror opposite.  Her hair had "gone" just right.  What a comfort that was!
Sometimes it took a stupid turn and could not be induced to obey.  She opened the cloak at
the top and peeped at the dainty whiteness within, with the daring, thoroughly French touch
of vivid emerald green which gave a cachet to the whole.  Yes, it was quite as pretty as she
had believed.  Every whit as becoming.  "I don't look a bit like a school- mistress!" smiled
Claire, and snoodled back again against the cushions with a deep breath of content.

She was not in the least shy.  Many a girl about to make her entree into a strange house would
have been suffering qualms of misgiving by this time, but Claire had spent her life more or
less in public, and was accustomed to meet strangers as a matter of course, so there was no
dread to take the edge off her enjoyment.

Even when the taxi slowed down to take its place in the stream of vehicles which were drawn
up before Mrs Willoughby's house, she knew only a heightened enjoyment in the realisation that
it was not a party at all, but a real big fashionable At Home.

The usual crowd of onlookers stood on either side of the door, and as Claire descended from
the taxi, the sight of her golden slippers and floating clouds of gauze evoked a gratifying
murmur of admiration.  She passed on with her head in the air, looking neither to right nor
left, but close against the rails stood a couple of working girls whose wistful eyes drew her
own as with a magnet.  In their expression was a whole world of awe, of admiration; they looked
at her as at a denizen of another sphere, hardly presuming even to be envious, so infinitely
was she removed from their grey-hued life.  As Claire met their eyes, an impulse seized her
to stop and tell them that she was just a working girl like themselves, but convention being
too strong to allow of such familiarities, she smiled instead, with such a frank and friendly
acknowledgment of their admiration as brought a flash of pleasure to their faces.

"She's a real laidy, she is!" said Gladys to Maud; and Maud sniffed in assent, and answered
strongly, "You bet your life!"

The inside of the house seemed out of all proportion with the outside appearance.  This is
a special peculiarity of the West End, which has puzzled many a visitor besides Claire Gifford.
What is the magic which transforms narrow slips of buildings into spacious halls and imposing
flights of stairways?  Viewed from the street, the town houses of well-known personages seem
quite inadequate for their purpose; viewed from within, they are all that is stately and appropriate.
Those of us who live in less favoured neighbourhoods would fain solve the riddle.

Mrs Willoughby stood at the top of her own staircase, shaking hands with the stream of ascending
guests, and motioning them forward to the suite of entertaining rooms from which came a steady
murmur of voices. She was a stout woman, with a vast expanse of white shoulders which seemed
to join right on to her head without any preliminary in the shape of a neck.  Her hair was
dark, and a plain face was lightened by a pair of exceedingly pleasant, exceedingly alert brown
eyes.  As soon as she met those eyes Claire felt assured that the kindness of which she had
heard was a real thing, and that this woman could be counted upon as a friend.  There was,
it is true, a slight vagueness in the manner in which she made her greeting, but a murmur of
"Mrs Fanshawe" instantly revived recollections.

"Of course--of course!" she cried heartily.  "So glad you could come, my dear.  I must see
you later on.  Reginald!"--she beckoned to a lad in an Eton suit--"I want you to take charge
of Miss Gifford.  Take her to have some coffee, and introduce her to some one nice."

A nod and a smile, and Mrs Willoughby had turned back to welcome the next guest in order, while
the Eton boy offered his arm with the air of a prince of the blood, and led the way to a refreshment
buffet around which the guests were swarming with an eagerness astonishing to behold when one
realised how lately they must have risen from the dinner-table. Claire found her young cavalier
very efficient in his attentions.  He settled her in a comfortable corner, brought her a cup
of coffee heaped with foaming cream, and gave it as his opinion that it was going to be "a
beastly crush."  Claire wondered if it would be tactful to inquire how he happened to be at
home in the middle of a term; but while she hesitated he supplied the information himself.

"I'm home on leave.  Appendicitis.  Left the nursing home three weeks ago.  Been at the sea,
and came back yesterday in time for this show. Getting a bit tired of slacking!"

"You must be.  Dear me!  I am sorry.  Too bad to begin so soon," murmured Claire pitifully;
but Master Reginald disdained sympathy.

"Oh, I dunno," he said calmly.  "It's quite the correct thing, don't you know?  Everybody's
doing it.  Just as well to get it through.  It might"--he opened his pale eyes with a startled
look--"it might have come on in the hols!  Pretty fool I should have looked if I'd been done
out of winter sports."

"There's that way of looking at it!"  Claire said demurely.  For a moment she debated whether
she should break the fact that she herself was a school-mistress, but decided that it would
be wiser to refrain since the boy would certainly feel more at ease with her in her private
capacity.  So for the next half-hour they sat happily together in their corner, while the boy
discoursed on the subjects nearest his heart, and the girl deftly switched him back to the
subjects more congenial.

"Yes, I love cricket.  At least I'm sure I should do, if I understood it better...  Do tell
me who is the big old lady with the eyeglass and the diamond tiara?"

"Couldn't tell you to save my life.  Rather an out-size, isn't she? Towers over the men.  I
say! you ought to go to Lord's Will you turn up at Lord's next year to see our match?  We might
meet somewhere and I'd give you tea.  Harrow won't have a chance.  We've got a bowler who--"

"Can he really?  How nice!  Oh, that is a curious-looking man with the long hair!  I'm sure
he is something, or does something different from other people.  Is he a musician, do you think?
Do you ever have music on these evenings?"

"Rather!  Sometimes the mater hires a big swell, sometimes she lets loose the amateurs.  She
knows lots of amateurs, y'know.  People who are trying to be big-wigs, and want the chance
to show off.  The mater encourages them.  Great mistake if you ask me, but you needn't listen
if you don't want.  She has one of these crushes once a month.  Beastly dull, I call them.
Can't think why the people come.  But she gives them a rattling good feed.  Supper comes on
at twelve, in the dining-room downstairs."

But Claire was not interested in supper.  All her attention was taken up in watching the stream
of people passing by, and for a time the youth of her companion had seemed an advantage, since
it made it easy to indulge her curiosity concerning her fellow-guests by a succession of questions
which might have been boring to an adult.  As time passed on, however, and she became conscious
that more than one pair of masculine eyes turned in her direction, she wished frankly Master
Reginald would remember his mother's instructions and proceed without further delay to introduce
her to "someone nice."  To return home and confess to Cecil that she had spent the evening
in company with a schoolboy would be almost as humiliating as sitting alone in a corner.

It was at this point that Claire became aware of the presence of a very small, very wizened
old woman sitting alone at the opposite side of the room, her mittened hands clawing each other
restlessly in her lap, her sunken eyes glancing to right and left with a glance distinctly
hostile. The passing of guests frequently hid her from view, but when a gap came again, there
she sat, still alone, still twisting her mittened hands, still coldly staring around.  Claire
thought she looked a very disagreeable old lady, but she was sorry for her all the same.  Horrid
to be old and cross, and to be alone in a crowd!  She put yet another question to the boy by
her side.

"That," said Master Willoughby seriously, "is Great-aunt Jane.  Great- aunt Jane is the skeleton
in our cupboard.  The mater says so, and she ought to know.  Every time the mater has a show,
the moment the door is opened, in comes Great-aunt Jane, and sits it out until every one has
gone.  If any one dares speak to her she snaps his head off, and if they let her alone, she's
furious, and gives it to the mater after they're gone.  Most of the crowd know her by now,
and pretend they don't see, ... and she gets waxier and waxier.  Would you like to be introduced?"

"Yes, please!" said Claire unexpectedly.  She was tired of sitting in one corner, and wanted
to move her position, but she was also quite genuinely anxious to try her hand at cheering
poor cross Great-aunt Jane.  The old lady pensionnaires in the "Villa Beau Sejour" had made
a point of petting and flattering the pretty English girl, and Claire was complacently assured
that this old lady would follow their example. But she was mistaken.

"Aunt Jane, Miss Gifford asks to be introduced to you.  Miss Gifford-- Lady Jane Willoughby."

Reginald beat a hurried retreat, and Claire seated herself at the end of the sofa and smilingly
awaited her companion's lead.  It did not come. After one automatic nod of the head, Lady Jane
resumed her former position, taking no more notice of the new-comer than if she had remained
at the far end of the room.  Claire felt her cheeks begin to burn.  Her complacence had suffered
a shock, but pride came to her rescue, and she made a determined effort at conversation.

"That nice boy has been telling me that he has had appendicitis."

Lady Jane favoured her with a frosty glance.

"Yes, he has.  Perhaps you will excuse me from talking about it.  I object to the discussion
of diseases at social gatherings."

Claire's cheeks grew hotter still.  A quick retort came to her lips.

"I wasn't going to discuss it!  I only mentioned it for--for something to say.  I couldn't
think how else to begin!"

The droop of Lady Jane's eyelids inferred that it was really quite superfluous to begin at
all.  Claire waited a whole two minutes by the clock, and then made another effort.

"I hear we are to have some music later on."

"Sorry to hear it," said Great-aunt Jane.

"Really!  I was so glad.  Aren't you fond of music, then?"

"I am very fond of music," said Aunt Jane, and there was a world of insinuation in her voice.
Without a definite word being spoken, the hearer was informed that good music, real music,
music worthy the name, was a thing that no sane person would expect to hear at Mrs Willoughby's
"At Homes."  She was really the most terrifying and disconcerting of old ladies, and Claire
heartily repented the impulse which had brought her to her side.  A pretty thing it would be
if she were left alone on this sofa for the rest of the evening!

But fortune was kind, and from across the room came a good angel who was so exactly a reproduction
of Mrs Willoughby herself, minus half her age, that it must obviously be her daughter.  Janet
Willoughby was not a pretty girl, but she looked gay, and bright, and beaming with good humour,
and at this moment with a spice of mischief into the bargain. The manner in which she held
out her hand to Claire was as friendly as though the two girls had been friends for years.

"Miss Gifford?  I was sure it must be you.  Mother told me to look for you.  Aunt Jane, will
you excuse my running away with Miss Gifford? Several people are asking to be introduced. 
Will you come with me, Miss Gifford?  I want to take you into the music room."

Claire rose with a very leap of eagerness, and as soon as they had gained a safe distance,
Miss Willoughby turned to her with twinkling eyes.

"I am afraid you were having a bad time!  I caught sight of you across the room and was so
sorry.  Who took you over there?  Was it that naughty Reginald?"

"He did, but I asked him.  I thought she looked lonely.  I thought perhaps she would be pleased."

Janet Willoughby's smile showed a quick approval.

"That was kind!  Thanks for the good intention, but I can't let you be victimised any more.
I want to talk to you myself, and half-a-dozen men have been asking for introductions to the
girl with the green sash.  You know Mrs Fanshawe, don't you?  Isn't she charming?  She and
I are the greatest of chums.  I always say she has never succeeded in growing older than seventeen.
She is so delightfully irresponsible and impulsive.  She wrote mother a charming letter about
you.  It made us quite anxious to meet you, but you know what town life is--a continual rush!
Everything gets put off."

"It was awfully good of you to ask me at all, and very kind of Mrs Fanshawe to write.  I only
know her in the most casual way.  We crossed over from Antwerp together, and her maid was ill,
and I was able to be of some use, and when she heard that I was coming to work in London and
that I knew nobody here--she--"

Jane Willoughby stared in frank amazement.

"Do you really mean that that was all?  You met her only that one time? You know nothing of
her home or her people?"

"Only that time.  I hope--I hope you don't think--"

Claire suffered an anxious moment before she realised that for some unexplained reason Miss
Willoughby was more pleased than annoyed by the intelligence.  An air of something extraordinarily
like relief passed over her features.  She laughed gaily and said--

"I don't think anything at all except that it is delightfully like Mrs Fanshawe.  She wrote
as if she had known you for ages.  As a matter of fact she probably does know you quite well.
She is so extraordinarily quick and clever, that she crowds as much life into an hour as an
ordinary person does into a week.  She told us that you had chosen to come to London to work,
rather than go to India and have a good time. How plucky of you!  And you teach at one of the
big High Schools...  You don't look in the least like a school-mistress."

"Ah!  I'm off duty to-night!  You should see me in the morning, in my working clothes.  You
should see me at night, correcting exercises on the dining-table in a lodging-house parlour,
and cooking sausages in a chafing-dish for our evening meal.  I `dig' with the English mistress,
and do most of our cooking myself, as the landlady's tastes and ours don't agree.  I'm getting
to be quite an expert at manufacturing sixpenny dainties."

Janet Willoughby breathed a deep sigh; the diamond star on her neck sent out vivid gleams of light.

"What fun!" she sighed enviously.  "What fun!" and as she spoke there flashed suddenly before
the eyes of her listener a picture of the English mistress lying on the green plush sofa, her
shabby slippers showing beneath the hem of her shabby skirt, spending the holiday Saturday
evening at home because she had no invitations to go out, and no money to spare for an entertainment.
"Oh, I do envy you!" sighed Janet deeply.  "It's one of my greatest ambitions to share rooms
with a nice girl, and live the simple life, and be free to do whatever one liked.  Mother loves
independence in other girls, but her principles don't extend to me.  She says an only daughter's
place is at home.  But you are an only daughter, too."

"I am; but other circumstances were different.  It was a case of being dependent on a stepfather
or of working for myself--so I chose to work, and--"

"And I'm sure you never regret it!"

Claire extended her hands in the expressive French shrug.

"Ah, but I do!  Horribly, at times.  Even now, after three months' work I have a conviction
that I shall regret it more and more as time goes on; but if I had to decide again, I'd do
just the same.  It's a question of principle versus so many things--laziness and self-indulgence,
and wanting to have a good time, and the habits of a lifetime, and irritation with stupid girls
who won't work."

Janet Willoughby gave a soft murmur of understanding.

"Yes, of course.  Stupid of me to say that!  Of course, you must get tired when you've never
taught before.  Does it bore you very much?"

"Teaching?  Oh, no.  As a rule I love it, and take a pride in inventing new ways to help the
girls.  It's the all work and no play that gets on one's nerves, and the feeling of being cut
off from the world by an impassable barrier of something that really doesn't exist.  People
have a prejudice against school-mistresses.  They think they are dull, and proper, and pedantic.
If they want to be complimentary they say, `You don't look like a school-mistress.'  You did
yourself, not two minutes ago.  But really and truly they are just natural, everyday girls,
wanting to have a good time in their leisure hours like other girls. You can't think how happy
I was to come here to-night and have the chance of putting on pretty things again."

Janet Willoughby put her hand on Claire's arm and piloted her deftly through the crowd.

"Now," she said firmly, "you just stay here, and I'll bring up all the nicest men in the room,
and introduce them in turns.  You shall have a good time, and you are wearing the very prettiest
things in the room--if it's any comfort to you to hear it.  We won't talk about school any
more.  To-night is for fun!"

The next hour passed on flying feet, while Claire sat the queen of a little court, and Janet
Willoughby flitted to and fro, bringing up fresh arrivals to be introduced, and drafting off
the last batch to other parts of the crowded rooms.  All the men were agreeable and amusing,
and showed a flattering appreciation of their position.  Claire felt no more interest in one
than in another, but she liked them all, and felt a distinct pleasure in talking to men again
after the convent-like existence of the last months.  She was pleased to welcome a new-comer,
smiled unconcerned at a farewell.

From time to time the buzz of voices was temporarily broken by the crash of the piano, but
always before the end of each performance it rose again, and steadily swelled in volume.  In
truth, the excellence of the performance was no great inducement to listen, and Mrs Willoughby's
forehead showed a pucker of anxiety.  She drifted across to Claire's corner, and spoke a few
kindly words of welcome, which ended in a half apology.

"I am sorry the music is so poor.  It varies so much on different nights.  Sometimes we have
quite a number of good singers, but to-night there are none.  I am afraid so much piano grows
a little boring."

She looked in the girl's face with a quick inquiry.

"Do you sing?"

"No-o."  The word seemed final, yet there was an unmistakable hesitation in Claire's voice.
Mrs Willoughby's glance sharpened.

"But you do something?  Play?  Recite?  What is it?  My dear, I should be so grateful!"

"I--whistle!" confessed Claire with a blush, and a little babble of delight greeted the words.
Every one who heard hailed the chance of a variety in the monotonous programme.  Mrs Willoughby
beamed with all the relief of a hostess unexpectedly relieved of anxiety.

"Delightful!  Charming!  My dear, it will be such a help!  You would like an accompaniment?
I'll introduce you to Mr Helder.  He can play anything you like.  Will you come now!  I am
sure every one will be charmed."

There was no time for a second thought.  The next moment the long-haired Mr Helder was bowing
over Claire's hand, and professing his delight. The little group in the corner were pressing
forward to obtain a point of vantage, and throughout the company in general was passing a wordless
hum of excitement.  Mr Helder was seating himself at the piano, a girl in a white dress had
ascended the impromptu platform and now stood by his side, a pretty girl, a very pretty girl,
a girl who acknowledged the scattered applause with a smile which showed two dimples on one
cheek, a girl who looked neither shy nor conceited, but simply as if she were enjoying herself
very much, and expected everybody to do the same.  She was going to sing.  It would be a relief
to listen to singing after the continued performances upon the piano.  They hoped sincerely
that she could sing well.  Why didn't the accompaniment begin?

Then suddenly a white-gloved hand gave a signal, Mr Helder's hands descended on the keys, and
at the same instant from between Claire's pursed-up lips there flowed a stream of high, flute-like
notes, repeating the air with a bird-like fluency and ease.  She had chosen the old-world ballad,
"Cherry Ripe," the quaint turns and trills of which lent themselves peculiarly well to this
method of interpretation, and the swing and gaiety of the measure carried the audience by storm.
Looking down from her platform Claire could see the indifferent faces suddenly lighten into
interest, into smiles, into positive beams of approval.  At the second verse heads began to
wag; unconsciously to their owners lips began to purse.  It was inspiring to watch those faces,
to know that it was she herself who had wrought the magic change.

Those moments for Claire were pure undiluted joy.  Whistling had come to her as a natural gift,
compensating to some extent for the lack of a singing voice; later on she had taken lessons,
and practised seriously to perfect her facility.  At school in Paris, later on in attending
social gatherings with her mother, she had had abundant opportunities of overcoming the initial
shyness; but indeed shyness was never a serious trouble with Claire Gifford, who was gifted
with that very agreeable combination of qualities,--an amiable desire to please other people,
and a comfortable assurance of her own powers.

At the end of the third verse the applause burst out with a roar. "Bravos" sounded from every
side, and "Encores" persisted so strenuously that Claire was not permitted even to descend
from her platform.  Mrs Willoughby rustled forward full of gratitude and thanks.  Mr Helder
rubbed his hands, and beamingly awaited further commands...  What would Cecil have to say to
a success like this?

Claire's second choice was one of Mendelssohn's "Songs without Words," a quieter measure this
time, sweet and flowing, and giving opportunity for a world of delicate phrasing.  It was one
of the pieces which she had practised with a master, and with which she felt most completely
at home; and if the audience found it agreeable to hear, they also, to judge from their faces,
found it equally agreeable to watch.  Claire's cheeks were flushed to a soft rose-pink, her
head moved to and fro, unconsciously keeping time with the air; one little golden shoe softly
tapped the floor.  Her unconsciousness of self added to the charm of the performance.  But
once the audience noticed, with sympathetic amusement, her composure was seriously threatened,
so that the bird-like notes quavered ominously, and the twin dimples deepened into veritable
holes. Claire had caught sight of Great-aunt Jane standing in solitary state at the rear of
the throng of listeners, her mittened fingers still plucking, her eyes frosty with disapproval.

After that Claire safeguarded her composure by looking steadily downward at the points of her
shoes until the end of the song approached, when it seemed courteous, once more, to face her
audience.  She raised her eyes, and as she did so her heart leapt within her with a startling
force. She was thankful that it was the end, that the long final note was already on her lips,
for there, standing in the doorway, his face upraised to hers, stood her knight of the railway
station, the rescuer of the lost box--Erskine Fanshawe himself!

CHAPTER NINE.

THE SUPPER.

Claire stepped down from the platform to be surrounded by a throng of guests all eager to express
their admiration of her interesting performance, to marvel how she could "do it," and to congratulate
her upon so unusual an accomplishment; and she smiled and bowed, declared that it was quite
easy, and perjured herself by maintaining that anyone could do as well, acutely conscious all
the time that Captain Fanshawe was drawing nearer with determined steps, edging his way towards
the front of the crowd.  The next moment her hand was in his, and he was greeting her with
the assurance of a lifelong friend.

"Good evening, Miss Gifford.  Hadn't we better make straight for supper now?  I am sure you
must need it."

It was practically the ordinary invitation.  There was nothing to find fault with in the words
themselves, yet the impression of a previous arrangement was obviously left with the hearers,
who fell back, giving way as to a superior right.  As for Claire, she laid her hand on the
extended arm, with all the good will in the world, and made a triumphant passage through the
crowd, which smiled upon her as though agreeing that it was now her turn to be amused.

"This table, I think!"  Captain Fanshawe said, leading the way to the furthest corner of the
dining-room, and Claire found herself sipping a hot cup of soup, and realising that the world
was an agreeable place, and that it was folly ever to allow oneself to be downhearted, since
such delightful surprises awaited round corners ready to transform the grey into gold!

Captain Fanshawe looked exactly as memory had pictured him--plain of feature, distinguished
in bearing, grave, self-contained, yet with that lurking light in his eyes which showed that
humour lay beneath.  Claire smiled at him across the table, and asked an obvious question--

"Rather a different meeting-place from our last!  Did you know me at once?"

"I did," he said, and added deliberately, "Just as you knew me."

"Oh, well!"  Claire tried to look unconcerned.  "Men are always pretty much the same.  Evening
dress does not make the same difference to them."

She knew a momentary fear lest he should believe she was fishing for a compliment, and give
the ordinary banal reply; but he looked at her with a grave scrutiny, and asked quietly--

"Was that one of the frocks which went astray?"

"Yes!  All of it.  It wasn't even divided in half."

"It was a good thing the box turned up!" he said; and there, after all, was the compliment,
but so delicately inferred that the most fastidious taste could not object.

With the finishing of the soup came the first reference to Claire's work, for the Captain's
casual "Do you care for anything solid, or would you prefer a sweet?" evoked a round-eyed stare
of dismay.

"Oh, please!" cried Claire deeply.  "I want to go straight through. I've been living on mutton
and cabbage for over two months, and cooking suppers on a chafing-dish.  I looked forward to
supper as part of the treat!"

The plain face lightened into a delightful smile.

"That's all right!" he cried.  "Now we know where we are.  I hadn't much dinner myself, so
I'm quite game.  Let us study the book of the words."

A menu lay on the table, a square white card emblazoned with many golden words.  Captain Fanshawe
drew his chair nearer, and ran his finger down the list, while Claire bent forward to signify
a yea or nay. Every delicacy in season and out of season seemed to find its place on that list,
which certainly justified Master Reginald's eulogy of his mother's "good feeds."  Claire found
it quite a serious matter to decide between so many good things, and even with various curtailments,
made rather out of pride than inclination, the meal threatened to last some considerable time.

Well! there was obvious satisfaction in the manner in which Captain Fanshawe delivered his
orders, and for herself, she had been dignified and self-denying; she had resolutely shut the
door between this man and herself, and devoted herself to work, and now, since fate had thrown
him in her way for a chance hour, she could enjoy herself with a light mind. It was good to
talk to a man again, to hear a deep masculine voice, to look at a broad strong frame.  Putting
aside all question of love and marriage, the convent life is no more satisfying than the monastic.
Each sex was designed by God to be the complement of the other.  Each must suffer from lack
of the other's companionship.

"I arrived just as you began your performance," Captain Fanshawe informed her.  "It was a great
`draw.'  Everybody had crowded forward to listen.  It was only towards the end of your second--er--how
exactly should one express it?--morceau, that I managed to get into seeing line.  It was a
surprise!  Have you known the Willoughbys long?"

Claire looked at him blankly.

"I never saw them before to-night.  Your mother wrote to ask them if they would send me a card."

"Oh!"  Captain Fanshawe was certainly surprised, and Claire mentally snubbed herself because
at the bottom of her heart there had lain a suspicion that perhaps--just perhaps--he had come
to-night in the hope of meeting his acquaintance of the railway station.  This was not the
case; no thought of her had been in his mind.  Probably until the moment of meeting he had
forgotten her existence.  Never mind!  They had met, and he was agreeable and friendly.  Now
for a delightful half-hour...

"That was a good thought of the mater's.  You will like them.  They are delightful people.
Just the people you ought to know as a stranger in town.  How goes the school teaching, by
the way?  As well as you expected?"

Claire deliberated, with pursed lips.

"No.  I expected so much; I always do.  But much better than other people expected for me.
Theoretically it's a fine life.  There are times when it seems that nothing could be finer.  But--"

"But what?"

"I don't think it's quite satisfying, as a whole life!"

"Does anyone suppose it is?"

"They try to.  They have to.  For most teachers there is so little else."

The waiter handed plates of lobster mayonnaise, and Captain Fanshawe said quietly--

"Tell me about the times when the work seems fine."

"Ah--many times!  It depends on one's own mood and health, because, of course, the circumstances
are always the same.  There are mornings when one looks round a big class-room and sees all
the girls' faces looking upwards, and it gives one quite a thrilling sense of power and opportunity.
That is what the heaven-born teacher must feel every time.--`Here is the fresh virgin soil,
and mine is the joy of planting the right seed!  Here are the women of the future, the mothers
of the race.  For this hour they are mine.  What I say, they must hear.  They will listen with
an attention which even their parents cannot gain.  The words which I speak this morning may
bear fruit in many lives.'  That's the ideal attitude, but the ordinary human woman has other
mornings when all she feels is--`Oh, dear me, six hours of this!  And what's the use? Everything
I batter in to-day will be forgotten by to-morrow.  What's the ideal anyway in teaching French
verbs?  I want to go to bed.'"

They laughed together, but Captain Fanshawe sobered quickly, and his brow showed furrows of
distress.  Claire looked at him and said quickly--

"Do you mind if we don't talk school?  I am Cinderella to-night, wearing fine clothes and supping
in state.  I'd so much rather talk Cinderella to match."

"Certainly, certainly.  Just as you wish."  Lolling back in his chair, Captain Fanshawe adopted
an air of blase indifference, and drawled slowly, "Quite a good winter, isn't it?  Lots going
on.  Have you been to the Opera lately?"

"Oh dear!" thought Claire with a gush, "how refreshing to meet a grown- up man who can pretend
like a child!"  She simpered, and replied artificially, "Oh, yes--quite often.  The dear Duchess
is so kind; her box is open to me whenever I choose to go.  Wonderful scene, isn't it? All
those tiers rising one above another.  Do you ever look up at the galleries?  Such funny people
sit there--men in tweed suits; girls in white blouses.  Who are they, should you think?  Clerks
and typists and school-mistresses, and people of that persuasion?"

"Possibly, I dare say.  One never knows.  They look quite respectable and quiet, don't you know!"

The twinkle was alight in Captain Fanshawe's eyes.  It shone more brightly still as he added,
"Everybody turns up sooner or later in the Duchess's box.  Have you happened to meet--the Prince!"

For a moment Claire groped for the connection, then dimpled merrily.

"Not yet.  No! but I am hoping--"

The waiter approached with plates of chicken in aspic, and more rolls of crisp browned bread.
Claire sent a thought to Cecil finishing a box of sardines, with her book propped up against
the cocoa jug.  The Cinderella role was forgotten while her eyes roved around, studying the
silver dishes on the various tables.

"When you were a small boy, Captain Fanshawe, did you go out to parties?"

Captain Fanshawe knitted his brows.  This charming girl was a little difficult to follow conversationally;
she leapt from one subject to another with disconcerting agility.

"Er--pardon me!  Is that question put to me in my--er--private, or imaginary capacity?"

"Private, of course.  But naturally you did.  Did you have pockets?"

"To the best of my remembrance I was disguised as a midshipmite, with white duck trousers of
a prodigious width.  They used to crackle, I remember.  There was room for a dozen pockets."

Claire laid her arms on the table, so that her face drew nearer his own. Her voice fell to
a stage whisper--

"Did you--ever--take--something--home?"

The Captain threw back his head with a peal of laughter.

"Miss Gifford, what a question!  I was an ordinary human boy.  Of course I did.  And sat on
my spoils in the carriage going back, and was scolded for spoiling my clothes.  I had a small
brother at home."

"Well--I have a small friend!  She has letters after her name, and is very learned and clever,
but she has a very sweet tooth.  Do you think, perhaps--in this bag--"

"Leave it to me!" he said firmly, and when the waiter next appeared, he received an order to
bring more bon-bons--plenty of bon-bons--a selection of all the small dainties in silver dishes.

"He thinks I am having a feast!"  Claire said demurely, as she watched the progress of selection;
then she met Erskine Fanshawe's eyes, and nodded in response to an unspoken question, "And
I am!  I'm having a lovely time!"

"I wish it were possible that you could oftener--"

"Well, who knows?  A week ago I had made up my mind that nothing exciting would ever happen
again, and then this invitation arrived. What a perfect dear Miss Willoughby seems to be!"

"Janet?  She is!" he said warmly.  "She is a girl who has had everything the world can give
her, and yet has come through unspoiled. It's not often one can say that.  Many society girls
are selfish and vain, but Janet never seems to think of herself.  You'd find her an ideal friend."

Claire's brain leapt swiftly to several conclusions.  Janet Willoughby was devoted to Mrs Fanshawe;
Mrs Fanshawe returned her devotion. Janet Willoughby was rich, and of good birth.  Mrs Fanshawe
had mentally adopted her as a daughter-in-law.  Given the non-appearance of a rival on the
scene, her desire would probably be fulfilled, since such sincere liking could easily ripen
into love.  Just for a moment Claire felt a stab of that lone and lorn feeling which comes
to solitary females at the realisation of another's happiness; then she rallied herself and
said regretfully--

"I'm afraid I shan't have the chance!  Our lives lie too far apart, and my time is not my own.
It is only an occasional Saturday-night that I can play Cinderella."

"What do you do on Sundays?"

"Go to church in the morning, and sleep in the afternoon.  Sounds elderly, doesn't it?  But
I do enjoy that sleep.  The hour after lunch is the most trying of the school day.  It's all
I can do sometimes to smother my yawns, and not upset the whole class.  It's part of the Sunday
rest to be able to let go, lie down hugging a hot bottle, and sleep steadily till it's time
for tea."

"Where do you go to church?"

"Oh!"  Claire waved an airy hand, "it depends!  I've not settled down. I am still trying which
I like best."

Across the table the two pairs of eyes met.  The man's questioning, protesting, the girl's
steadily defiant.  "Why won't you tell me?" came the unspoken question.  "Why won't you give
me a chance?"

"I am too proud," came the unspoken answer.  "Your mother did not think me good enough.  I
will accept no acquaintance by stealth."

Interruption came in the shape of the waiter bearing a tray of little silver dishes filled
with dainties, which he proceeded to arrange in rows on the table.  Claire relapsed into giggles
at the sight, and Captain Fanshawe took refuge, man-like, in preternatural solemnity; but he
made no comment, and the moment that the man had disappeared, both heads craned eagerly to
examine the spoils.

"Chocolates, marrons glacis, crystallised peaches, French bon-bons, plums.  I don't recognise
them by head mark.  These are too sticky... These look uncommonly good!"  The big fingers hovered
over each dish in turn, lifting sample specimens, and placing them on Claire's plate, whence
they were swiftly conveyed to her bag.  Not a single sweetmeat touched her own lips.  The unconventionality
of the action seemed to receive some justification from the fact that she was confiscating
only her own share.  When the waiter returned with ices, the little bag bulged suspiciously,
and the silver dishes were no longer required.  The waiter was ordered to carry them away,
and plainly considered that some people did not know what they wanted.

"The only thing lacking is a cracker.  I invariably purloined a cracker, and doubled up the
ends.  I suppose we are hardly near enough to Christmas.  By the by, what are you doing for
Christmas?  You will have holidays, of course," Captain Fanshawe said, with an elaborate unconsciousness,
and Claire kept her eyes on her plate.

"I may go to Belgium.  I haven't decided."

"There seem to be a good many things you cannot--decide.  Miss Gifford, you haven't forgotten
what I asked you?"

"What did you ask?"

"That if ever I could help--if you ever needed help--"

"I shall want help badly during the next few weeks, when the examinations come on, and I have
all the papers to set and correct."

Captain Fanshawe refused to smile.

"The kind of help that a man can give--"

"Yes, I remember.  You were very kind, and I am still so much under the influence of the old
life that I do feel you might be a comfort; but no doubt, after some more months of school-mistressing,
I shall resent the idea that a man could do any more than I could myself.  So it's a case of
soon or never.  You will hardly be cruel enough to wish to hasten my extremity!"

"I'm not so sure about that, if I could have the satisfaction of putting things to rights!"

It was while she was smiling her acknowledgment of this pretty speech that Claire became conscious
of Janet Willoughby's eyes bent searchingly upon her.  She had entered the room on the arm
of her supper partner, and came to a pause not a yard away from the table where a very animated,
apparently very intimate conversation was taking place between the son of her old friend and
the girl to whom she had believed him to be unknown.  As she met Claire's glance, Janet smiled
automatically, but the friendliness was gone from her glance.  The next moment Captain Fanshawe,
had turned, seen her, and sprung to his feet.

"Janet!  Are you waiting for a table?  We have nearly finished.  Won't you sit down and talk
to Miss Gifford?"

"Oh, please don't hurry...  We'll find another place.  You have met before, then?  I didn't know."

"I saw Miss Gifford when she was befriending my mother at Liverpool Street Station, and recognised
her upstairs just now.  Do sit down, Janet.  You look tired."

Janet Willoughby took the offered chair and exchanged a few words with Claire as she gathered
together her possessions, but the subtle change persisted.  Claire felt vaguely disturbed,
but the next half-hour passed so pleasantly that she had no time to puzzle over the explanation.
Captain Fanshawe never left her side; they sat together on the same sofa which Great-aunt Jane
had monopolised for the earlier part of the evening, and talked of many things, and discussed
many problems, and sometimes agreed, and oftener disagreed, and when they disagreed most widely,
looked into each other's eyes and smiled, as who should say, "What do words matter?  We understand!"

At one o'clock Claire rose to depart, and said her adieu to her hostess and her daughter, who
were standing side by side.

"My dear, it is too bad.  I have had no time with you, and I am so grateful for the charming
way in which you came to the rescue!  We shall hope to see you often again.  Shan't we, Janet?
You girls must arrange a day which suits you both."

"Oh, yes, we must!"  Janet said, as she shook hands, but she made no attempt to make the arrangement
there and then, as her mother obviously expected, and Claire realised, with a sinking of the
heart, that a promised friendship had received a check.

When she descended to the hall wrapped in her filmy cloak it was to find Captain Fanshawe waiting
at the foot of the stairs.  He looked worried and grave, and the front door was reached before
he made the first remark.  Then, lingering tentatively on the threshold, he looked down at
her with a searching glance.

"Is--er--is your address still the Grand Hotel?"

Claire's face set into firm lines.

"Still the Grand Hotel!"

For a moment he looked her steadily in the eyes, then said quietly--

"And my address is still the Carlton Club!"  He bowed, and turned into the house.

The footman banged the door of the taxi, and stood awaiting instructions.

"T-wenty-two, Laburnum Crescent," said Claire weakly.  Halfway through the words a sudden obstacle
arose in her throat.  It was all she could do to struggle through.  She hoped to goodness the
footman did not notice.

"There now! what did I tell you?  You look fagged to death, and as cross as two sticks.  Five
shillings wasted on taxis, and nothing for it but getting thoroughly upset.  Next time I hope
you will take my advice!" said Cecil, and took up her candle to grope her way up the dark stairway
to bed.

CHAPTER TEN.

NOWHERE TO GO.

Cecil's observance of her day of licenced grumbling was somewhat obstructed by the fact that
for several weeks after Mrs Willoughby's At Home, Monday mornings found her in a condition
of excitement and gaiety. It was a restless gaiety, which seemed to spring rather from the
head than the heart, and Claire looking on with puzzled eyes had an instinct that her companion
was assiduously whipping up her own spirits, playing the part of happiness with all her force,
with the object of convincing the most critical of all audiences--her own heart!  Life was
a lonely thing to Claire in these days, for Cecil went out regularly every Saturday and Sunday,
returning so late that the two girls did not meet from lunch one day until breakfast the next.
She vouchsafed no explanation of her sudden plunge into society, neither beforehand when she
sat stitching at pathetic little pieces of finery, nor afterwards when letting herself in with
her latch-key she crept slowly to bed, never deigning to enter Claire's room for one of those
"tell-all-about- it" seances dear to a girl's heart.

It was the sight of those pathetic little pieces of finery which first suggested the idea of
a man to Claire's mind.  However dear and intimate a woman friend may be, the prospect of meeting
her does not inspire a fellow-woman with sufficient energy to sit up until after midnight to
cover a shabby lace blouse with ninon, or to put a new silk collar and cuffs on a half-worn
coat.  It is only the prospect of meeting the eyes of some male creature, who in all probability
will remain supremely unconscious of the result, which stimulates such effort, and Claire,
noting Cecil's restless excitement, cast anxious thoughts towards the particular man in this case.

Was Sophie Blake correct in her deduction as to a previous unhappy romance?  Claire had no
tangible grounds to lead her to a conclusion, but instinct induced her to agree.  Something
beyond the troubles of her professional life had gone towards warping a nature that was naturally
generous and warm.  In imagination Claire lived over the pitiful romance.  Poor Cecil had been
badly treated.  Some selfish man had made love to her, amusing his idle hours with the society
of a pretty, clever woman; he had never seriously intended marriage, but Cecil had believed
in his sincerity, had given him her whole heart, had dreamt dreams which had turned the grey
of life to gold.

And then had come the end.  How had the end come?  Some day when they were walking together,
had he suddenly announced: "I am sailing to India next month!" or, "We have been such capital
friends, you and I.  I should like you to be the first to hear my news.  I am engaged to be
married to the dearest girl in the world!"  Then, because convention decrees that when her
heart is wounded a woman may make no moan, had Cecil twisted her lips into a smile, and cried,
"I am so glad to hear it.  I hope you will be very happy," while the solid earth rocked around
her?  At such thoughts as these Claire flared with righteous anger.  "If that should ever happen
to me, I wouldn't pretend!  I wouldn't spare him.  I should look him straight in the face,
and say, `And all this time you have been pretending to love me.--I thank God that it was pretence.
I thank God that He has preserved me from being the wife of man who could act a double part!'"

But perhaps there had been no real ending.  Perhaps the man had simply grown tired, and ceased
to call, ceased to write.  Oh, surely that would be the greatest tragedy of all!  Claire's
quick brain summoned pictures of Cecil creeping down the oil-clothed stairs in her dressing-gown
at the sound of the postman's earliest knock, and creeping back with no letter in her hand;
of Cecil entering the little parlour on her return from work with a swift hungry look at the
table on which the day's letters were displayed; seeing no letter lying there; never, never
the letter for which she watched!  And the days would pass, and the weeks, and the months,
and the old routine of life would go on just the same. Whatever might be her private sufferings,
the English mistress must be at her post each morning at nine o'clock; she must wrestle all
day with the minds of dull girls, listless girls, clever girls, girls who were eager to learn,
and girls whose energies seemed condensed in the effort to avoid learning at all.  However
sore might be the English mistress's heart, it was her duty to be bright and alert; however
exhausted her own stock of patience, she must still be a female Job in her treatment of her
many pupils.  A school-mistress must banish her individuality as a woman on the threshold of
the form-room; while on duty she must banish every outside interest from her mind.  No lying
in bed, with her face to the pillow; no weeping far into the night.  Headache and swollen eyelids
are not for her.  If her love-story goes wrong, she must lock her sorrow in her own heart.
What wonder if, as a result, her mind grows bitter and her tongue grows sharp!

"That's a lesson for me!  I must never, never allow myself to fall in love!" sighed Claire
to herself.  It was a depressing necessity, but vaguely she allowed herself to dream of a distant
Someday, when the ban should be removed.  Something might happen to set her free.  Something
most certainly would happen!  Optimistic one-and-twenty is ready enough to face a short term
of renunciation, but it resolutely refuses to believe in its continuance.

A shadow fell over Claire's happy face as the practical application of this resolve came into
her mind.  Erskine Fanshawe!  At the moment he was the one masculine figure on her horizon,
but she did not disguise from herself that of all the men she had met, he attracted her the
most. What a mercy that she had had the resolution to put a stop to a friendship which might
have ended in unfitting her for the work in hand! It had been hard to refuse the desired information,
but the fact that the second refusal had been twice as hard as the first was in itself a proof
of the wisdom of her decision.  And then, in illogical girlish fashion, Claire fell to wondering
if perchance Captain Fanshawe would discover her address for himself?  It would be the easiest
of tasks, since he had nothing to do but to put the question to Mrs Willoughby. At one moment
Claire openly hoped that he would; at the next she recalled the expression on Janet Willoughby's
face as she stood staring across the supper room, and then she was not so sure.  What if the
continuance of the friendship brought trouble on Janet as well as herself?

Laboriously Claire thrust the thought of Erskine Fanshawe from her mind, but just because inclination
would have led her to so blithely meet him, she felt a keener sympathy with her companion's
preparations for similar meetings.

The time of examinations had come, and night after night the dining- table of the little parlour
was littered with the sheets of foolscap which were to test the progress of the pupils throughout
the term. Cecil's older forms had been studying The Merchant of Venice, Richard the Second,
and the Essays of Elia; the younger forms, Tanglewood Tales and Kingsley's Heroes.  She had
set the questions not only as a test of memory, but with a view of drawing out original thought.
But, to judge from her groans and lamentations, the result was poor.

"Of all the dull, stupid, unimaginative--sheep!  Not an original idea between them.  Every
answer exactly like the last--a hash-up of my own remarks in class.  If there's a creature
on earth I despise more than another, it's an English flapper.  Silly, vain, egotistical--"

Then the French mistress would scowl across the table, and say, "Now you've put me out!  I
was just counting up my marks.  Oh, do be quiet!"

"Sorry!"  Cecil would say shortly, and taking up her pencil slash scathing comments at the
side of the foolscap sheets.  Anon she would smile, and smile again, and forgetting Claire's
request, would interrupt once more.

"Can you remember the name of Florence Mason?"

"If I strain my intellect to its utmost, I believe I can."

"Well, remember, then!  It will be worth while.  She'll do something-- that girl.  When you
are an insignificant old woman, you may be proud to boast that you used to sit at the very
table on which her first English essays were corrected."

"So they are not all dull, stupid, unimaginative?"

"The exception proves the rule!" cried Cecil, and swept the papers together with a sigh of
relief.  "Done at last.  Now for my blouse."

Claire cast a glance at the clock.

"Half-past ten.  And you are so tired.  Surely you won't begin to sew at this hour?"

"I must.  I want it for Saturday.  I tried it on last night, and it wasn't a bit nice at the
neck.  I've got to alter it somehow."

"I have some trimming upstairs.  Just be quiet for five minutes, while I finish my list, and
then I'll bring down my scrap-box, and we'll see what we can find."

That scrap-box was in constant request during the next weeks.  It was filled with the dainty
oddments which a woman of means and taste collects in the course of years; trimmings and laces,
and scraps of fine brocades; belts and buckles, and buttons of silver and paste; glittering
ends of tinsel, ends of silk and ribbons that were really too pretty to throw away, and cunning
little motifs which had the magic quality of disguising deficiencies and making both ends meet.
Claire gave with a lavish hand, and Cecil's gratitude was pathetic in its intensity.  More
and more as the weeks passed on did she become obsessed with the craze for decking herself
in fine garments; new gloves, shoes, and veils were purchased to supplement the home-made garments,
and one memorable night there arrived a large dress-box containing an evening dress and cloak.

"I have been out so little these last years.  I have no clothes to wear," Cecil said in explanation.
"It's not fair to--er--people, when they take you about, to look as if you had come out of
the Ark...  And these ready-made things are so cheap!"

She spoke with an air of excusing herself, and with a flush of embarrassment on her cheeks,
and Claire hastened to sympathise and agree.  She wondered if the embarrassment arose from
the fact that for the last two weeks Cecil had not paid her share of the joint expenses! The
omission had happened naturally enough, for on each occasion when the landlady appeared with
the bill, Cecil had been absent on one of her now frequent excursions, when it had seemed the
simplest thing to settle in full, and await repayment next day.

Repayment, however, had not come.  Half a dozen times over Cecil had exclaimed, "Oh, dear,
there's that money.  I must remember!" but apparently she never had remembered at a moment
when her purse was at hand.

Claire was honestly indifferent.  The hundred pounds which she had deposited in a bank was
considerably diminished, since it had been drawn on for all her needs, but the term's salary
would be paid in a short time, and the thought of that, added to the remainder, gave her a
pleasant feeling of ease.  It was only when for the third Saturday Cecil hurried off with an
air of fluster and embarrassment, that an unpleasant suspicion arose.  The weekly bill was
again due, and Cecil had not forgotten, she was only elaborately pretending to forget!  Claire
was not angry, she was perfectly willing to play the part of banker until the end of the term,
but she hated the thought that Cecil was acting a part, and deliberately trying to deceive.
What if she had been extravagant in her expenditure on clothes and had run herself short for
necessary expenses, there was nothing criminal in that!  Foolish it might be, but a fellow-girl
would understand that, after being staid and sensible for a long, long time, it was a blessed
relief to the feminine mind to have a little spell of recklessness for a change.  Cecil had
only to say, "I've run myself horribly short.  Can you pay up till I get my screw?" and the
whole matter would have been settled in a trice.  But to pretend to forget was so mean!

The next morning after breakfast the vexed question of the Christmas holidays came up for discussion
for the twentieth time.  Cecil had previously stated that she always spent the time with her
mother, but it now appeared that to a certain extent she had changed her plans.

"I shall have to go down over Christmas Day and the New Year, I suppose. Old people make such
a fuss over those stupid anniversaries, but I shall come up again on the second.  I prefer
to be in town.  We have to pay for the rooms in any case, so we may as well use them."

Claire's face lengthened.

"Pay for them!  Even if we go away?"

"Of course.  What did you expect?  The landlady isn't let off her own rent, because we choose
to take a holiday.  There's no saving except for the light and coal.  By the way, I owe you
for a third week now.  I must remember!  Have you decided what you are going to do?"

Claire shook her head.  It was a forlorn feeling that Christmas was coming, and she had nowhere
to go.  Until now she had gone on in faith, feeling sure that before the time arrived, some
one would remember her loneliness, and invite her if only for the day itself.  Possibly Cecil
in virtue of three months' daily companionship would ask her mother's permission to invite
her friend, if only for a couple of days.  Or bright, friendly Sophie Blake, who had sympathised
with her loneliness, might have some proposition to make, or Mrs Willoughby, who was so interested
in girls who were working for themselves, or Miss Farnborough, who knew that it was the French
mistress's first Christmas without her mother; but no such suggestion had been made.  No one
seemed to care.

"I must say it's strange that no one has invited you!" said Cecil sharply.  "I don't think
much of your grand friends if they can't look after you on Christmas Day.  What about the people
in Brussels?  Did no one send you an invitation?  If you lived there for three years, surely
you must know some one intimately enough to offer to go, even if they don't suggest it."

"It is not necessary, thank you," said Claire with an air.  "I have an open invitation to several
houses, but I am saving up Brussels for Easter, when the weather will be better, and it will
be more of a change.  And I have an old grand-aunt in the North, but she is an invalid, confined
to her room.  I should be an extra trouble in the house.  I shall manage to amuse myself somehow.
It will be an opportunity for exploring London."

"Oh well," Cecil said vaguely, "when I come back!" but she spoke no word of Christmas Day.

The next week brought the various festivities with which Saint Cuthbert's celebrated the end
of the Christmas term.  There was a school dance in the big class-room, a Christmas-tree party,
given to the children in an East End parish, and last and most important of all the breaking-up
ceremony in the local Town Hall, when an old girl, now developed into a celebrated authoress,
presented the prizes, and gave an amusing account of her own schooldays, which evoked storms
of applause from the audience, even Miss Farnborough smiling benignly at the recital of misdoings
which would have evoked her sternest displeasure on the part of present-day pupils!  Then the
singing-class girls sang a short cantata, and the eldest girls gave a scene from Shakespeare,
very dull and exceedingly correct, and the youngest girls acted a little French play, while
the French mistress stood in the wings, ready to prompt, her face very hot, and her feet very
cold, and her heart beating at express speed.

This moment was a public test of her work during the term, and she had a horror that the children
would forget their parts and disgrace their leader as well as themselves.  She need not have
feared, however, for the publicity which she dreaded was just the stimulus needed to spur the
juvenile actors to do their very best, and they shrugged, they gesticulated, they rolled their
r's, they reproduced Claire's own little mannerisms with an aplomb which brought down the house.
Claire's lack of teaching experience might make her less sound on rules and routine, but it
was obvious that she had succeeded in one important point; she had lifted "French" from the
level of a task, and converted it into a living tongue.

Miss Farnborough was very gracious in her parting words to her new mistress.

"I have not come to my present position without learning to trust my perceptions," said she.
"I recognised at once that you possessed the true teaching instinct, and to-day you have justified
my choice.  I have had many congratulations on your pupils' performance."  Then she held out
her hand with a charming smile.  "I hope you will have very pleasant holidays!"

She made no inquiries as to the way in which this young girl was to spend her leisure.  She
herself was worn-out with the strain of the long term, and when the morrow came she intended
to pack her bag, and start off for a sunny Swiss height, where for the next few weeks it would
be her chief aim to forget that she had ever seen a school.  But the new French mistress turned
away with a heavy heart.  It seemed at that moment as if nobody cared.

That year Christmas fell on a Monday.  On the Saturday morning Cecil packed up her bag, and
departed, grumbling, for her week at home. Before she left, Claire presented her with a Christmas
gift in the shape of a charming embroidered scarf, and Cecil kissed her, and flushed, and looked
at the same time pleased and oppressed, and hastily pulling out her purse extracted two sovereigns
and laid them down on the table.

"I keep forgetting that money!  Three weeks, wasn't it?  There's two pounds; let me know the
rest when I come back and I'll settle up. Christmas is an awful time.  The money simply melts."

Claire had an uncomfortable and wholly unreasonable feeling of being paid for her present as
she put the two sovereigns in her purse.  Cecil had given her no gift, and the lack of the
kindly attention increased the feeling of desolation with which she returned to her empty room.
Even the tiniest offering to show that she had been thought of, would have been a comfort!

The landlady came into the room to remove the luncheon tray, her lips pursed into an expression
which her lodger recognised as the preliminary to "a bit of my mind."  When the outlying cruets
and dishes had been crowded together in a perilous pile, the bit of her mind came out.

"I was going to say, miss, that of course you will arrange to dine out on Christmas Day.  I
never take ladies as a rule, but Miss Rhodes, she said, being teachers, you would be away all
holiday time.  I never had a lodger before who stayed in the house over Christmas, and of course
you must understand that we go over to Highgate to my mother's for the day and the girl goes
out, and I couldn't possibly think of cooking--"

"Don't be afraid, Mrs Mason.  I am going out for the day."

Mrs Mason lifted the tray and carried it out of the room, shutting the door behind her by the
skilful insertion of a large foot encased in a cashmere boot, and Claire stood staring at her,
wondering if it were really her own voice which had spoken those last words, and from what
source had sprung the confidence which had suddenly flooded her heart. At this last blow of
all, when even the little saffron-coloured parlour closed the door against her, the logical
course would have been to collapse into utter despair, instead of which the moment had brought
the first gleam of hope.

"Now," said the voice in her heart, "everyone has failed me.  I am helpless, I am alone.  This
is God's moment.  I will worry no more, but leave it to Him.  Something will open for me when
the time arrives!"

She went upstairs, put on her hat, and sallied out into the busy streets.  All the world was
abroad, men and women and small eager children all bent on the same task, thronging the shops
to the doors, waiting in rows for the favour of being served, emerging triumphant with arms
laden with spoils.  On every side fragments of the same conversation floated to the ears. 
"What can I get for Kate?"

"I can't think what in the world to buy for John."

"Do try to give me an idea what Rose would like!..."

Claire mingled with the throng, pushed her way towards the crowded counters, waited a preposterous
time for her change, and then hurried off to another department to go through the same struggle
once more. Deliberately she threw herself into the Christmas feeling, turning her thoughts
from herself, considering only how she could add to the general happiness.  She bought presents
for everybody, for the cross landlady, for the untidy servant girl, for Sophie Blake, and Flora
Ross, for the maid at Saint Cuthbert's who waited upon the Staff-Room, with a selection of
dainty oddments for girl friends at Brussels, and when the presents themselves had been secured
she bought prettily tinted paper, and fancy ribbons, and decorated name cards for the adornment
of the parcels.

The saffron parlour looked quite Christmas-like that evening, and Claire knew a happy hour
as she made up her gifts in their dainty wrappings. They looked so gay and seasonable that
she decided to defer putting them into the sober outer covering of brown paper as long as possible.
They were all the Christmas decoration she would have!

On Sunday morning the feeling of loneliness took an acute turn.  Claire longed for a church
which long association had made into a home; for a clergyman who was also a friend; for a congregation
of people who knew her, and cared for her well-being, instead of the long rows of strange faces.
She remembered how Cecil had declared that in London a girl might attend the same church for
years on end, and never hear a word of welcome, and hope died low in her breast.  The moment
of exaltation had passed, and she told herself drearily that on Christmas afternoon she must
take a book and sit by the fire in the waiting-room of some great station, dine at a restaurant,
and perhaps go to a concert at night.

For weeks past Claire had been intending to go to a West End church to hear one of the finest
of modern preachers.  She decided to go this morning, since the length of journey now seemed
rather an advantage than a drawback, as helping to fill up another of the long, dragging hours.

She dressed herself with the care and nicety which was the result of her French training, and
which had of late become almost a religious duty, for the study of the fifteen women who daily
assembled round the table in the Staff-Room was as a danger signal to warn new-comers of the
perils ahead.  With the one exception of Sophie Blake, not one of the number seemed to make
any effort to preserve their feminine charm.  They dressed their hair in the quickest and easiest
fashion without considering the question of appearance; they wore dun-coloured garments with
collars of the same material; though severely neat, all their skirts seemed to suffer from
the same depressing tendency to drop at the back; their bony wrists emerged from tightly-buttoned
sleeves.  The point of view adopted was that appearance did not matter, that it was waste of
time to consider the adornment of the outer woman.  Brain was the all-important factor; every
possible moment must be devoted to the cultivation of brain; but an outsider could not fail
to note that, with this destroying of a natural instinct, something which went deeper than
the surface was also lost; with the grace of the body certain feminine graces of soul died
also, and the world was poorer for their loss.

The untidy servant maid peered out of the window to watch Claire as she left the house that
morning, and evolved a whole feuilleton to account for the inconsistency of her appearance
with her position as a first floor front.  "You'd take her for a lady to look at her!  P'raps
she is a lady in disguise!" and from, this point the making of the feuilleton began.

The service that morning was food to Claire's hungering soul, for the words of the preacher
might have been designed to meet her own need.  As she listened she realised that the bitterness
of loneliness was impossible to one who believed and trusted in the great, all-compassing love.
Sad one might still be, so long as the human heart demanded a human companionship, but the
sting of feeling uncared for, could never touch a child of God.  She took the comfort home
to her heart, and stored it there to help her through the difficult time ahead, and on her
knees at the end of the service she sent up her own little petition for help.

"There are so many homes in this great city!  Is there no home for me on Christmas Day?"  With
the words the tears sprang, and Claire mopped her eyes with her handkerchief, thankful that
she was surrounded by strangers by whom her reddened eyes would pass unnoticed.  Then rising
to her feet, she turned to lift the furs which hung on the back of the pew, and met the brown
eyes of a girl who had been sitting behind her the whole of the service.

The girl was Janet Willoughby.

CHAPTER ELEVEN.

ENTER MAJOR CAREW.

In the street outside the church door the two girls shook hands and exchanged greetings.  Janet
wore a long fur coat, and a toque of dark Russian sable, with a sweeping feather at one side.
The price of these two garments alone would equal the whole of Claire's yearly salary, but
it had the effect of making the wearer look clumsy and middle-aged compared with the graceful
simplicity of the other's French-cut costume. Janet Willoughby was not thinking of clothes
at that moment, however; she was looking at reddened eyelids, and remembering the moment when
she had seen a kneeling figure suddenly shaken with emotion.  The sight of those tears had
wiped away the rankling grudge which had lain at her heart since the evening of her mother's
At Home, and revived the warm liking which at first sight she had taken to this pretty attractive
girl.

"Which way are you going?  May I walk with you?  It's just the morning for a walk.  I hope
it will keep cold and bright over Christmas.  It's so inappropriate when it's muggy.  Last
year we were in Switzerland, but mother is old-fashioned, and likes to have the day at home,
so this time we don't start till the new year.  You are not going sporting by any chance?"

"I'm not!" said Claire, and, for all her determination, could not resist a grimace, so far
from sporting seemed the prospect ahead.  Janet caught the grimace, and smiled in sympathy,
but the next moment her face sobered.

"But I hope you are going to have jolly holidays?"

"Oh, I hope so.  Oh, yes, I mean to enjoy them very much," Claire said valiantly, and swiftly
turned the subject.  "Where do you go in Switzerland?"

"Saint Moritz.  We've gone there for years--a large party of friends. It has become quite a
yearly reunion.  It's so comfy to have one's own party, and be independent of the other hoteliers.
They may be quite nice, of course, but then, again, they may not.  I feel rather mean sometimes
when I see a new arrival looking with big eyes at our merry table.  Theoretically, I think
one ought to be nice to new-comers in an hotel.  It's such a pelican-in-the-wilderness feeling.
I'd hate it myself, but practically I'm afraid I'm not particularly friendly.  We are so complete
that we don't want outsiders.  They'd spoil the fun. Don't you think one is justified in being
a little bit selfish at Christmas-time?"

Claire laughed, her old, happy, gurgling laugh.  It warmed her heart to have Janet Willoughby's
companionship once more.

"It isn't exactly the orthodox attitude, is it?  Perhaps you will be more justified this year,
after you have got through your Christmas duties at home."

"Yes!  That's a good idea.  I shall, for it was pure unselfishness which prevented me running
away last week with the rest of the party. Mother would have given in if I'd persisted, and
I wanted to so dreadfully badly."  She sighed, and looked quite dejected, but Claire remained
unmoved.

"I don't pity you one bit.  You have only a week to wait.  That's not a great trial of patience!"

"Oh, yes, it is.--Sometimes!" said Janet with an emphasis which gave the words an added eloquence.

Claire divined at once that Switzerland had an attraction apart from winter sports--an attraction
centred in some individual member of the merry party.  Could it by any chance be Erskine Fanshawe?
She longed to ask the question.  Not for a hundred pounds would she have asked the question.
She hoped it was Captain Fanshawe.  She hoped Janet would have a lovely time.  Some girls had
everything.  Some had nothing.  It was unfair--it was cruel.  Oh, dear, what was the use of
going to church, and coming out to have such mean, grudging thoughts?  Janet Willoughby too!
Such a dear!  She deserved to be happy.  Claire forced a smile, and said bravely--

"It will be all the nicer for waiting."

"It couldn't be nicer," Janet replied.

Then she looked in the other girl's face, and it struck her that the pretty eyelids had taken
an additional shade of red, and her warm heart felt a throb of compunction.  "Grumbling about
my own little bothers, when she had so much to bear--hateful of me!  I've been mean not to
ask her again; mother wanted to; but she's so pretty.  I admired her so much that I was afraid--other
people might too!  But she was crying; I saw her cry.  Perhaps she is lonely, and it's my fault--"

"What do you generally do on Sundays?" she asked aloud.  "There are lots of other mistresses
at your school, aren't there?  I suppose you go about together, and have tea at each other's
rooms in the afternoon, and sit over the fire at night and talk, and brew cocoa, as the girls
do in novels.  It all sounds so interesting.  The girls are generally rather plain and very
learned; but there is always one among them who is like you.  I don't mean that you are not
learned--I'm sure you are--but--er-- pretty, you know, and attractive, and fond of things!
And all the others adore her, and are jealous if she is nicer to one than to the others..."

Claire grimaced again, more unrestrainedly than before.

"That's not my part.  I wish it were.  I could play it quite well.  The other mistresses are
quite civil and pleasant, but they don't hanker after me one bit.  With two exceptions, the
girl I live with, and one other, I have not spoken to one of them out of school hours.  I don't
even know where most of them live."

Janet's face lengthened.  Suddenly she turned and asked a sharp direct question:

"Where are you going on Christmas Day?"

Pride and weakness struggled together in Claire's heart, and pride won. She would not pose
as an object of pity!

"Oh, I'm going--out!" said she with an air, but Janet Willoughby was not to be put off so easily
as that.  Her brown eyes sent out a flash of light.  She demanded sternly:

"Where?"

"Really--" Claire tossed her head with the air of a duchess who was so overburdened with invitations
that she found it impossible to make a choice between them.  "Really, don't you know, I haven't
quite decided--"

"Claire Gifford, you mean, horrid girl, don't dare to quibble!  You are going nowhere, and
you know it.  Nobody has invited you for Christmas Day; that's why you were crying just now--because
you had nowhere to go. And you would have gone away this morning, and said nothing, and sat
alone in your rooms...  I call it mean!  Talk of the spirit of Christmas!  It's an insult to
me and to mother.  How do you suppose we should have felt if we'd found out afterwards?"

"W-what else could I do?  How could I tell you?" stammered Claire, blushing.  "It would have
seemed such a barefaced hint, and I detest hints.  And really why should you have felt bad?
I'm a stranger. You've only seen me once.  There could be no blame on you.  There's no blame
on anyone.  It just happens that it doesn't quite fit in to visit friends at a distance, and
in town--well!  I'm a stranger, you see.  I have no friends!"

Janet set her lips.

"Just as a matter of curiosity I should like to know exactly what you were going to do?  You
said, I believe, that you were going out.  And now you say you had nowhere to go.  Both statements
can't be true--"

"Oh, yes, they can.  I have nowhere to go, but I had to find somewhere, because my good landlady
is going to her mother's at Highgate, and disapproves of lodgers who stay in on Christmas Day.
She gave me notice that I must go out as the house would be locked up."

"But where--what--where could you go?"

"I thought of a restaurant and a concert, and a station waiting-room to fill in the gaps. 
Quite comfortable, you know.  They have lovely fires, and with a nice book--"

"If you don't stop this minute I shall begin to cry--here, in the open street!" cried Janet
hotly.  "Oh, you poor dear, you poor dear!  A station waiting-room.  I never heard of anything
so piteous.  Oh, how thankful I am that I met you!  Tell me honestly, was it about that that
you were crying?"

"Y-yes, it was.  I was saying a little prayer and trying not to feel lonesome, and then I looked
round and saw--you."

"End of volume one!" cried Janet briskly.  "No more waiting-rooms, my dear.  You must come
to us for the whole of Christmas Day.  I wish I could ask you to stay, but we are chock-a-block
with cousins and aunts. I'll come round in my car in time to take you to church, and send you
back at night after the Highgate revels are over.  We can't offer you anything very exciting,
I'm afraid--just an old-fashioned homey gathering."

"It's just what I want.  I am thirsty for a home; but your mother--what will she say?  Will
she care for a stranger--"

"Mother says what I say," Janet declared with the assurance of an only daughter.  "And she'll
say in addition, `What a blessing!  She'll whistle for us, and amuse Aunt Jane.'  Did you realise
that Aunt Jane was coming?  She's generally very cross all day, and makes a point of giving
away her presents to other members of the party under the very noses of the givers, to let
them see what she thinks of their choice. The great idea is to sit down by her quickly when
you see her begin to fumble with something you would like to have.  I got quite a nice bag
that way last Christmas!"

Presents!  That was another idea.  Claire went home mentally reviewing her own treasures with
a view to selecting some trifle which Janet in the midst of her plenty might still be glad
to receive.  She decided on a silver clasp of quaint Breton manufacture, which had the merit
that in the whole of London it would be impossible to purchase another to match.

Claire returned to her room in a frame of mind vastly different from that in which she had
started forth.  Her buoyant spirits soared upwards at the prospect of a Christmas spent in
the midst of a happy family party, and all the difficulties of life seemed to dissolve into
thin air, since, after the providential meeting just vouchsafed, it seemed faithless to doubt
that future difficulties would be solved in the same way.

She intended to devote the afternoon to writing a long letter to her mother, which had been
delayed owing to her recent depression of spirits, for it seemed cruel to write in a pessimistic
strain to the happy bride, who now, more than ever, saw everything couleur de rose. Mrs Judge's
present had arrived the week before, in the shape of a richly embroidered Indian table-cloth,
for which her daughter had as much use as she herself would have found for a fur rug.  To use
it in the saffron parlour was a sheer impossibility, for every separate article of furniture
shrieked at it, and it shrieked at them in return; so Claire folded it away at the bottom of
her box, reflecting, between a sigh and a smile, that the choice was "just like mother."  It
was not agreeable to the bride to picture her daughter living in an ugly lodging-house parlour,
so she had mentally covered the ugliness beneath the gorgeous embroidery of that cloth, and
happily dismissed the subject from her mind.  At the time of the opening of the parcel, Claire
had felt a sense of sharp disappointment, amounting even to irritation, but this morning she
could see the humour of the situation, and she chuckled softly to herself as she walked homeward,
rehearsing words of thanks that would be at once cordial and truthful.  "Just what I wanted,"
was plainly out of the question; "So useful" was also ruled out, but she could honestly admire
the workmanship of the cloth, and enlarge on the care with which it should be preserved!  It
was an easy task to satisfy a correspondent who was eager to interpret words into the meaning
most agreeable to herself!

