There is another manner. The Spirit comes upon the soul in waves of terrible power. Now in
a rapture God descends upon the soul, catching her suddenly up in a marvellous embrace: magnetising
her, ravishing her. He is come, and He is gone. In an ecstasy the soul goes out prepared to
meet Him, seeking Him by praise and prayer, pouring up her love towards Him; and He, condescending
to her, fills her with unspeakable delights, and at rare times He will catch her from an ecstasy
into a greater rapture. At least, so it is with me: the ecstasy is prepared for, but in the
quicker rapture (or catching up) it is He that seeks the soul. These two conditions, though
given very intermittently, become a completely natural experience. I should say that the soul
lived by this way: it is her food and her life, which she receives with all the simplicity
and naturalness of the hungry man turning to his bodily food. But these waves of power were
something altogether new and very hard to endure. As each wave passed I would come up out of
it, as it were, gasping. It was as if something too great for the soul to contain was being
forced through her. It was as if one should try to force at fearful pressure fluid through
a body too solid to be percolated by it. I understood nothing of what could be intended by
such happenings, neither could I give accommodation to this intensity. I tried to make myself
a wholly willing receptacle and instrument, but after the third day of this I could not bear
any more. I was greatly distressed. I could not understand what was required of me. I gave
myself totally to Him, and it was not enough. And at last I cried to Him, saying: "I understand
nothing: forgive me, my God, for my great foolishness, but Thy power is too much for me. Do
what Thou wilt with me; I am altogether Thine. Drown me with Thy strength, break me in pieces--I
am willing; only do it quickly, my Lord, and have done with it, for I am so small. But I love
Thee with all that I have or am; yet I am overwhelmed: I am still too little to be taught in
this way, it is too much for my strength. Yet do as Thou wilt; I love Thee, I love Thee." And
He heard me, and He ceased: and He returned to the ways that I understood and dearly loved,
and for weeks I lived in Paradise. But my body was dreadfully shaken, and I suffered with my
heart and breathing.

Shortly after I began to know that another change had come into me. God had become intensely
my Father, and Christ the lover was gone up again into the Godhead--as happened after my third
conversion upon the hill.

So great, so tremendous was this sense of the Fatherhood of God become that I had only to think
the word Father to seem to be instantly transported into His very bosom. Oh, the mighty sweetness
of it! But it is not an ecstasy. The creature and soul are dead to world-life, as in a rapture
or ecstasy; but the soul is not the bride, she is the child, and, full of eager and adoring
intimacy, she flies into His ever-open arms, and never, never does she miss the way. Oh, the
sweetness of it, the great, great glory of it, and the folly of words! If only all the world
of men and women could have this joy! How to help even one soul towards it is what fills my
heart and mind. How convince them, how induce them to take the first steps? It is the first
steps we need to take. He does not drive, He calls. "Come to Me," He calls. It is this failure
to have the will to go to Him which is the root of all human woe. Would we but take the first
few steps towards Him, He will carry us all the rest of the way. These first few steps we take
holding to the hand of Jesus. For the so-called Christian there is no other way (but he is
no Christian until he has taken it). For the Buddhist, doubtless, Gautama is permitted to do
the same. But for those who are baptized in Jesus Christ's name, He is their only Way.

* * *

God, once found, is so poignantly ever-present to the soul that we must sing and whisper to
Him all the day.

O marvellous and exquisite God! I am so enraptured by Thy nearness, I am so filled with love
and joy, that there is no one, nothing, in heaven or earth to me save Thine Own Self, and I
could die for love of Thee! Indeed I am in deep necessity to find Thee at each moment of the
day, for so great is Thy glamour that without Thee my days are like bitter waters and a mouthful
of gravel to a hungry man. How long wilt Thou leave me here--set down upon the earth in this
martyrdom of languishing for love of Thee? And suddenly, when the pain can be endured no more,
He embraces the soul. Then where do sorrow and waiting fly? and what is pain? There never were
such things!

* * *

We do well never to recall past ecstasies. In this way the soul comes to each encounter with
a lovely freshness and purity, and neither makes comparisons nor curious comments, but gives
herself wholly to love. But by these contacts the soul gains a secret and personal knowledge
of God: without sight and without reasoning she actually feels to partake of God, so that she
passes by these means far up beyond belief, into experiences of knowledge which in their poignant
intensity are at once an ineffable violence and a marvellous white peace.

* * *

I find the lark the most wonderful of all birds. I cannot listen to his rhapsodies without
being inspired (no matter what I may be in the midst of doing or saying) to throw up my own
love to God. In the soaring insistence of his song and passion I find the only thing in Nature
which so suggests the high-soaring and rapturous flights of the soul. But I am glad that we
surpass the lark in sustaining a far more lengthy and wonderful flight; and that we sing, not
downwards to an earthly love, but upwards to a heavenly.

To my mind, this is man's only justification for considering himself above the beasts--that
we can love, and communicate with, God. For where otherwise is his superiority? He builds fine
buildings which crumble and decay. He digs holes in the earth to take out treasures which he
has not made; and if he makes himself the very highest tower of wealth or fame, he must come
down from it and be buried in the earth like any other carcase.

* * *

It is better not to contend, either with others or against our own body. If we contend against
anything we impress it the more firmly upon our consciousness. So if we would overcome the
lusts of the body, let us do it not by harming or by contending against the body, which but
emphasises its powers and importance, but let us rather proceed to ignore and make little of
the body by forgetting it and passing out of it into higher things; and eventually we shall
learn to live, not in the lower state, but in the joy of the soul. Why have a contempt for
the body? I once did, and found that I was committing a great sin against the Maker of it.

How dare we say "my body is vile," when He fashioned it! It is blasphemous, when we consider
that it is His Temple.

To my mind the body is a beautiful and wonderful thing, and is greatly sinned against by our
evil hearts and minds and tongues. The body would do no harm if we, with our free-will, did
not think out the wickedness first in our own hearts. For first we commit theft and adultery
with the mind, and then we cause the body to carry out these things. We know that the body
is under the law, and its appetites are under the law, but the heart and mind and tongue are
perpetual breakers of this law. It is lawful for the body to take its meat and drink, but not
to be surfeited and drunken. It is lawful for the body to have its desires and its loves, but
not to be promiscuous and unfaithful.

But we know that a better way is to turn all appetites and greeds to this, that we be greedy
and ravenous for Christ. Only so shall we use the appetites of mind and heart and body for
their true end, and that not by despising but by conversion.

With great insistence I have been taught not to despise anything whatever in Creation of things
made in His most beautiful and wonderful world, though often I may cry with tears, "Lord God!
raise me to a world holier and nearer to Thyself, for I am heartbroken here."

Yet I am taught only to despise such things as lying, deceitfulness, hypocrisy, and uncleanness--in
fact, stenches of the heart and mind,--and not to think too much about these, but, passing
on, drop out the recollection of them in thoughts of finer things.

His inward instruction has been this, quietly to lay upon one side all that which is not pleasing
to God; and one by one, and piece by piece, to fold up and put away all that He does not love.

Above all, He has taught me to have no self-esteem and no prides; and to such a degree do I
have to learn this, that, without the smallest exaggeration, I am hardly ever able to think
myself the equal of a dog. But the love of a dog for his master is a very fine thing.

* * *

I think we mistake our own power and capacity in even seeking to imitate the Christ; let us
begin rather by taking into our heart and our mind the Christ as the Man-Jesus. For His love
and power only can show us the way to imitate the Christ which is in Him.

* * *

Is the temporary loss of grace our fault, or is it a deliberate withdrawal and testing upon
His part? Both. Every condition that we are in which is not pure and perfect of its kind, such
as pure peace, pure joy, pure harmony, is because of failure on our part to hold to Him. Whenever,
and for so long, as we keep ourselves in the single and simple condition of mind and heart
necessary for the perception and reception of Him, for just so long shall we receive and perceive
him; but this condition again we cannot maintain without grace. All loss of joy, of serenity,
of contact, is failure, then, on our part or withdrawal upon His. Yet we learn a bitter but
useful lesson by these losses of ability for connection. To return ignominiously to our dust
is a most bitter humiliation and trial--indeed, a desolation. Now, if we did not so return
we might suppose ourselves able, of our own power, not only to achieve momentary connection
with the Divine, but to remain at will in this sublime condition, by which I mean in a state
bordering upon ecstasy. The withdrawal of grace therefore would seem to be a necessary part
of the education and of the constant humbling of the soul. To find ourselves, of our own unaided
capacity, by the mere force of our own will, able to constantly go up to so high a level would
inevitably foster pride; indeed, to attain such a capacity would seem to place us on a level
with the angels!

By these withdrawals of grace, which came at first very tenderly, but gradually with greater
and greater severity, I have learnt this: that in spite of all that has been done for me, of
all that I have experienced, in spite of all the heights to which at times I have been raised,
I remain nothing better than the frailest and unworthiest thing! The sight of an ugly grey
cloud, momentarily and gloriously illumined by the sun, is a sufficient illustration of the
temporary transformation of our own selves touched by the light and the glory of God.

For the carrying out of His plan, it would seem to be His good pleasure that we are just what
we are--not angels, but little human things, full of simplicity and trust and love. "Like dear
children," as St Paul says; and yet, oh! wonder of wonders! far more than this. For whilst
we patiently wait, from time to time He stoops and embraces the soul in an infinite bliss,
in which we are no more children, but are caught up into High Love.

At first when we begin this new kind of living He holds us firmly, as it were, to a condition
suitable for contact with Him. If He did not do so, having had no previous practice, we should
never remain in it for two moments together. Then little by little He teaches us to live with
less frequent joy, and this is the cause of much difficulty and trouble. It is hard to endure
being without this blessed state and these marvellous favours, and more and more I found He
withdrew them whilst often my worldly and commonplace heart and mind still held me back--even
from peace. If we could but rid ourselves quickly of all selfish desires and greeds! Not until
I had learnt to do this was I given back my joys, and then sparingly.

How I would turn towards that secret door--the door of the kingdom of love,--and calling to
Him, hear no reply! Where is He gone?--why this desertion?--I would cry. How can He cause such
pain, how can I bear such dreadful deprivations, and what is love but a sharp sword? Lord,
let me hear Thy voice, for I am in despair; I cannot bear these pains, I fear for everything,
my joy is lost. My bread is spread with bitterness; where is the honey that I love so well?
Lord, call to me even from far away, and I shall hear and be consoled. Lord, I am sick and
ill--how canst Thou leave me so? Hast Thou no pity for my pain?--is this Thy love? My pain!
Lord, I remember! Thou hast been kissed by pain more frequently than I. Oh, let me wipe the
memory of Thy pain away with my warm love, and let me sing to Thee and be Thy lark, and do
Thou go and wander where Thou wilt and I will love Thee just the same! And softly the Voice
of the Beloved, saying: "I am here, I never left thee; but thou wast busy crying of thy pains
and did not hear Me when I answered thee." Lord, so I was! I was so filled with self, and,
asking for Thy gifts, I did forget to give! and so lost love.

* * *

It is hard to conquer in small things, petty irritations, worries, cares of this world, likes
and dislikes--all of these being subtle temptations, and all selfish. For instance, very often
I find the human voice the most horrible thing that I know! I will be in a beautiful state
of mind, and people around me will drag me from it with their maddening inanities of conversation.
This one will speak of the weather, and that one of food; another of scandal, another of amusements.
They will talk of their love for a dog, for a horse, for golf, for men or women; but never
do I hear at any time, or anywhere, anyone speak of their love for God. I must listen to all
their loves, but if I should venture to speak of mine they would look at me amazed; indeed,
I never should dare to do it. And this is perhaps the greatest weakness that I have to fight
against now, and one that spoils the harmony of the mind more than any other--that I cannot
always control myself from secret though unspoken irritation, impatience, and criticisms; and
to criticise is to judge, and in this there is wrong, and the smallest breeze of wrong is enough
to blow to--even to close--the door into that other lovely world. And not only this, but every
such failure is a disappointment to the Beloved. Many times I say to Him, "What canst Thou
do with us all, Beloved--such a mass of selfish, foolish, blundering, sinful creatures, all
hanging and pulling on to Thee at the same moment?" And I will be filled with a passionate
desire to so progress that I may stand a little alone and not be a perpetual drag upon Him,
and, feeling strong, perhaps I will say: "I will give up my share of Thee to someone else,
and not draw upon Thee for a little while, my Beloved Lord." But oh, in less than an hour,
if He should take me at my word! I could cry and moan like a small child, in my horrible emptiness
and longing for Him. And where now is my strength?--I have not an ounce of it without Him!
By this I learn in my own person how He is life itself to us, in all ways. He is the air, the
bread, and the blood of the soul, and no one can live without at every moment drawing upon
Him, though they do it insensibly. What a weight to carry, what a burden, this whole hungry
clamouring mass of disobedient men and women! Oh, my Beloved, how frequently I weep for all
Thy bitter disappointment--never ending!

But this we may be sure of--that all the marvels of His grace are not poured out on some poor
scrappit for no other reason than to give him pleasure. There is a vast purpose behind it all,
and by keenest attention we must pick up this purpose, understand it, and do it. This is the
true work of man, to love God with all the heart and mind and soul and strength, and not those
material works with which we all so easily satisfy ourselves and our consciences, and our bodily
needs.

He has marvellous ways (and very difficult to the beginner) of conveying His wishes. To my
finding, the inward life of us is like a perpetual interchange of conversation between the
heart and its many desires and the mind (which for myself I put into three parts--the intelligence,
the will, the reason). Now, all these parts of my heart and of my mind formerly occupied themselves
entirely with worldly things, passing from one thing to another in most disorderly fashion;
but now they occupy themselves (save for bodily necessities) solely with Him. There is a perpetual
smooth and beautiful conversation between them to Him and of Him; and suddenly He will seem
to enter into this conversation, suggesting thoughts which are not mine.

Often He will stab the soul, but not with words, also the heart; and I have known such communications
lie for weeks before they could be taken up by the mind, turned into words, and finally as
words be digested by the reason. And another way to the soul only--rare, untransferable to
words, and therefore not transmittable to others or to the reason. This way causes the creature
a great amazement, and is like a flooding or moving of whiteness, or an inwardly-felt phosphorescence;
it is a vitalising ministration greatly enjoyed by the soul. This is not any ecstasy, and is
exceedingly swift; the soul must be at high attention to receive this, yet neither anticipates
nor asks for it, but is in the act of giving great and joyful adoration.

* * *

I do not remember when I first became fully conscious that the centre or seat of my emotions
was changed, and that I now responded to all the experiences of life only with the higher parts
of me.

This change I found inexplicable and remarkable, for it was fundamental, and yet neither intended
nor thought of by me. With this alteration in the physical correspondences to life came a corresponding
alteration in the spiritual of me.

Formerly I supposed that the soul dwelt in, or was even a part of, the mind. Now, though the
mind must be filled wholly with God, and all other things whatsoever put out of it if we would
contemplate Him or respond to Him, yet neither the brain nor the intelligence of the creature
can come into any contact with Him; and this I soon learnt.

Correspondence with the Divine is accomplished for the creature through the heart and by the
uppermost part of the breast, this latter place (above the heart and below the mind) is the
dwelling-place of the celestial spark of the soul, which lies, as it were, between two fires--that
of the heart and that of the mind, responding directly to neither of these, but to God only.

Before I was touched upon the hill I was not aware of the locality of any part of my soul,
neither was there anything which could convince me that I even possessed a soul. I did no more
than believe and suppose that I did possess one. But the soul, once revived, becomes the most
powerful and vivid part of our being; we are not able any longer to mistake its possession
or position in the body. She is indeed the wonderful and lovely mistress of us, with which
alone we can unlock the mysteries of God's love.

* * *

How poor and cold a thing is mere belief! No longer do I believe in Jesus Christ: I do possess
Him. So complete is the change that He brings about in us that I now only count my life and
my time from the first day of this new God-consciousness that I received upon the hill, for
that was the first day of my real life; just as formerly I would count my time from the first
day of my physical birth, and from that on to my falling in love and to my marriage, which
once seemed to me to be the most important dates.

Whilst these changes were taking place in me I would often be filled with uneasiness and some
alarm; asking myself what all this could mean, and if it could be the way of martyrs or saints,
for I had no courage or liking to be one or the other and was very frightened of suffering.
And I think my cunning heart would have liked to take all the sweets and leave the bitter.
How well He knew this, and how exquisitely He handled me, never forcing, only looking at me,
inviting me with those marvellous perfections of His! How could I possibly resist Him? All
the while, all my waking hours, I felt that strange, new, incomprehensible, steady, insistent
drawing and urgency of the Spirit in me. Little by little I went--and still go--towards perfection,
whilst my cowardly heart endured many fears, but these are now past. It was not any desire
for my own salvation; to this I have never given so much as two thoughts. It was the irresistible
attraction of our marvellous and beautiful God. He lured, He drew me with His loveliness, His
holy perfections, His unutterable purity. I longed to please Him. The whole earth was filled
with the glamour of Him, and I filled with horror to see how utterly unlike--apart from the
glorious Beloved--I was. How frightful my blemishes, which must stink in His nostrils! Think
of it! To stink in the nostrils of the Beloved! What lover could endure to do such a thing?
No effort could be too great or painful to beautify oneself for Him. In this there is no virtue;
it is the driving necessity of love, a necessity known by every lover worthy of the name on
earth. To please and obey this ineffable and exquisite Being!--the privilege intoxicated me
more and more.

All these changes in my heart and mind continually filled me with surprise, for I was never
pious, though inwardly and secretly I had so ardently sought Him. I was attentive, humble,
and reverent, nothing more.

But though I had perhaps little or no piety, and never read a single religious book, I had
had a deep thirst for the perfect and the holy and the pure, as I seemed unable to find them
here on the earth. In the quiet solemnity of church, or under the blue skies, I could detach
myself from my surroundings and reach up and out with wistful dimness towards the ineffable
holiness and purity of God--God who, for me at least, remained persistently so unattainable.

And yet one blessed day I was to find Him suddenly, all in one glorious hour, no longer unattainable
but immanently, marvellously near, and willing to remain for me so strangely permanently near
that I must sing silently to Him from my heart all the day long--sing to Him silently, because
even the faintest whisper would feel too gross and loud between my soul and Him. And in hours
when I fall from this wonderful estate I think I come very near hell, so awful is my loss.

Our greatest need is to relearn the will of God. For we are so separated from Him that we now
look upon His Will as on a cross, as an incomprehensible sacrifice, as but self-abnegation,
pain, and gloom. We repudiate it in terror.

If we have the will to relearn His Will, we stand still and think of it, we walk to seek it,
we try to accept it, trembling we bow down to it with obedience and many tears; and behold!
it changes to an Invitation, a sigh of beauty, a breath of spring, the song of birds, the faces
of flowers, the ever-ascending spiral of the mating of all loves, the sunshine of the Universe;
and at last, intoxicated with happiness, we say: "My God, my Love, I sip and drink Thy Will
as an ambrosial Wine!"

* * *

To the lover of God all affections go up and become enclosed, as it were, into one affection,
which is Himself; so that we have no love for anyone or anything apart from Him. In this is
included, in a most deep and mysterious fashion, marriage-love in all its aspects. In every
way it can become a sacrament: there is nothing in it which is not holy, in no way does the
marriage bond of the body separate the spirit from acceptableness to God.

But I was some time before I could arrive at this, and could see marriage as the physical prototype
in this physical world of the spiritual union with Himself in the spiritual world. And this
was arrived at, not by prudish questionings and criticisms, but by remembering that this relationship
between men and women is His thought, His plan, not ours. We are responsible for our part in
it only in so far as to keep the bond of it pure and clean and sweet, and submit ourselves
in all things as completely and orderly as possible to His plans, whatever they may be. In
this attitude of unquestioning, unresisting submission, the Holy Spirit finds a swift and easy
channel through us. It is our opposition to the passage of the Holy Will which causes all the
distress and uneasiness of life. He has no wish to impose distress and suffering upon us. His
Will towards us is pure joy, pure love, pure peace, pure sweetness. This bond of earthly marriage
is of the flesh and can be kept by the body, and yet the heart, mind, and soul remain in lovely
perfect chastity; and I found that this exquisite freedom--after prolonged endeavours on the
part of the soul and the creature--was at length given them as a gift by act of grace, and
remained in permanence without variation.

* * *

We know that these things are deep mysteries and largely hidden; but this I know: as the heart
feels love in itself for God, in that same instant comes God into the soul of the lover. Now,
where God is we know that there is neither evil, nor sadness, nor unhappiness, nor any recollection
of such things; therefore, to be a great and constant lover to Him is to be automatically lifted
from all unhappinesses.

This is our wisest and our best desire, to be a splendid lover to our Most Glorious God.

The more I see of and talk with other people, the more I see how greatly changed I am. I am
freed. They are bound. I find them bound by fears, by anxieties, by worries, by apprehensions
of evil things, by sadness, by fears of death for their loved ones or for themselves. Now,
we are freed of all these things if we keep to the Way, which is the Road of Love. This change
we do not bring about for ourselves, and do not perhaps even realise that it can be effected.
For myself, I seemed to be lifted into it, or into a capacity for it, on that day and in that
moment in which I first loved God. This is not to say that since that moment I have not had
to struggle, suffer, and endure, to keep myself in, and progress in this condition; but my
sufferings, struggles, and endurances, being for love and in love and because of love, were
and are in themselves beautiful, and leave in the recollection nothing inharmonious. They are
the difficult prelude to a glorious melody.

Another thing--we become by this love for Him so large that we seem to embrace within our own
self the Universe! In some mysterious manner we become in sympathy with all things in the bond
of His making.

Are these things worth nothing whatever, that the majority of people should be content to spend
their lives looking for five-pound notes and even shillings--and this not only the poor, but
the rich more so? I am far more at a loss to understand my fellow-men than I am to understand
God. We have need of the shillings, but of other and more lovely things besides, which cost
no money and may be had by the poorest. It is rapidly becoming the only sorrow of my life that
people do not all come to share this Life in which I live. How that parable knocks at the heart,
"Go out into the highways and the hedges and compel them to come in!" To know all this fullness
of life and not to be able to bring even my nearest and dearest into it: what a terrible mystery
is this!--it is an agony. Now, in this agony I share the Agony of Jesus. This is a part of
the Cross, and only the Father can make it straight. I see Heaven held out, and refused; love
held out, and refused; perfection shown, and killed upon a cross. What is the crucifix but
that most awful of all things--the Grief of God made Visible? Perfect Love submitting itself
to the vile freewill of man and dying of wounds! My God! my God! and did I ever have a hand
in such a thing? I did.

* * *

What is it that seems more than any other thing whatever to throw us at last into the arms
of God? Suffering. And this not because it is His will (for how much rather would He have us
turn to Him in our joy and prosperity), but rather that it is our will, that in our earthly
joys and prosperities we turn away from Him, and only seek His consolations when we see the
failure of our health or happiness. And having by His mercy and forgiveness found Him, we too
often and too easily think to glorify ourselves and name each other saints! Did Jesus call
us saints? These glorifications mankind would appear to bestow upon itself. He spoke of His
flock, and of those who through Him should have life eternal, and of those who, because of
the road they take, have their joys in this world only.

* * *

When I was being taught to pray for national things and for other persons, and found these
prayers answered, I was inclined to be afraid; thinking, What am I that I should dare to petition
the Most High? But He showed it me so, which, as in everything, is for all of us: "It is but
a cloud which reflects the glories of the promise of My rainbow; so can the dust, such as thyself,
reflect yet other fashions of My will and glory. There is no presumption in the cloud that
it should glow with My power; neither is there presumption in thy dust that it should be My
vehicle. Both the cloud and thy dust are Mine."

* * *

As we progress in this new way of living we find an increasing difficulty in maintaining petition;
for on commencing to petition we will almost invariably be instantly lifted up to such a state
of adoration that the whole soul is nothing but a burning song, a thing of living worship.
At first I was inclined to blame myself, but now I know that it is acceptable for us to pass
from petitioning (no matter who or what for) to high adoration, even though it is a great personal
indulgence (and the petitioning is a hard task)--an indulgence so extreme that I cannot call
to my mind anything in any experience or time of my life, excepting actual raptures, which
could, or can, in any way compare or be named in the same breath with this most marvellous
joy; for out of this joy of adoration flows the Song of the Soul.

And all these previous years of my life I have lived with the greater part of me dead, and
most persons the same! The more I think of it, the more amazed I am at our folly--working and
fretting, and striving and looking for every kind of thing except the one thing, beautiful,
needful, and living, which is the finding of the personal connection between ourselves and
God and the Waters of Life.

Looking to my own experiences, I see clearly how I never could have found without the most
powerful and incessant assistance. We are, then, never alone. But first we must have the will
to seek these waters. This is the secret of the whole matter. He can turn the vilest into a
pure lover--if the vilest be willing to have the miracle performed on him! This is the grace
of God, and what does it cost Him to pour out this mighty power through us? For everything
has its price. My Lord! my Lord! we are not worthy of it all.

This I notice, that when He removes this grace, very shortly the mind goes back to a false,
uneven, inharmonious state; so we become like an instrument all out of tune, and are caused
indescribable sufferings, like a musician whose ears and nerves are tortured by false notes,
whilst his unmusical neighbours feel no pain! The musician pays a price for the privilege of
his great gift; so the lover of Christ.

Again, there is a price to pay for the immeasurable joy of prayer, for prayers are not always
sweet nor life-giving. The prayers to Christ are always a refreshment, but prayers to the Father
may suddenly be turned without any previous thought or private intention into a most awful
grief for the abominations of the whole world of us, a terrible wordless burnt-sacrifice of
the soul, of unspeakable anguish. And high petitioning is a fearful and profound strain upon
the soul and the whole creature.

* * *

We say that we have need of the purification and conversion of the soul; but rather it is first
the conversion of the heart, mind, and will that we have need of. For this would feel to be
the drama of our life--the human heart, intelligence, and will are the ego of the creature.
Our soul is the visitor within this creature, containing within herself a pure, holy, and incorruptible
sparkle of the Divine, and lies choked and atrophied in her human house until revived and awakened
by her holy lover; and this awakening is not given to her till the heart and mind of her human
house (or the will and spirit of the creature) is in a state of regeneration, or condition
to go forward towards God. Which is to say, the creature has been touched by repentance and
a desire for the pure and the holy. For if the soul should be awakened to an unrepentant creature,
this Will and imperishable worm of the creature (which is of greater coarseness and lustiness
than the delicate and fragile soul) will overcome the soul; and this is not the goal, neither
is the death of the creature the goal, but the lifting up of the creature into the Divine--this
is the goal.

After being awakened, then, in her human house, the soul finds herself locked in with two most
treacherous and soiled companions--the human heart and mind; and so great is her loathing and
her distress, that for shame's sake these two are constrained to improve themselves. But their
progress is slow, and now comes a long and painful time of alternation between two states.
At one time the soul will conquer the creature, imposing upon it a sovereign beauty of holiness;
and at another the creature will conquer the soul, imposing upon her its hideous designs and
desires, and causing her many sicknesses. Hence we have the warring which we feel within ourselves,
for the soul now desires her home and the creature its appetites.

