It was unfortunate. For to me--and very likely to many others if not to most--Warner's strength
lay above all in essay-writing. What he accomplished in this line was almost invariably pervaded
by that genial grace which makes work of the kind attractive, and he exhibited everywhere in
it the delicate but sure touch which preserves the just mean between saying too much and too
little. The essay was in his nature, and his occupation as a journalist had developed the tendency
towards this form of literary activity, as well as skill in its manipulation. Whether he wrote
sketches of travel, or whether he wrote fiction, the scene depicted was from the point of view
of the essayist rather than from that of the tourist or of the novelist. It is this characteristic
which gives to his work in the former field its enduring interest. Again in his novels, it
was not so much the story that was in his thoughts as the opportunity the varying scenes afforded
for amusing observations upon manners, for comments upon life, sometimes good-natured, sometimes
severe, but always entertaining, and above all, for serious study of the social problems which
present themselves on every side for examination. This is distinctly the province of the essayist,
and in it Warner always displayed his fullest strength.

We have seen that his first purely humorous publication of this nature was the one which made
him known to the general public. It was speedily followed, however, by one of a somewhat graver
character, which became at the time and has since remained a special favorite of cultivated
readers. This is the volume entitled "Backlog Studies." The attractiveness of this work is
as much due to the suggestive social and literary discussions with which it abounds as to the
delicate and refined humor with which the ideas are expressed. Something of the same characteristics
was displayed in the two little volumes of short pieces dealing with social topics, which came
out later under the respective titles of "As We Were Saying," and "As We Go." But there was
a deeper and more serious side of his nature which found utterance in several of his essays,
particularly in some which were given in the form of addresses delivered at various institutions
of learning. They exhibit the charm which belongs to all his writings; but his feelings were
too profoundly interested in the subjects considered to allow him to give more than occasional
play to his humor. Essays contained in such a volume, for instance, as "The Relation of Literature
to Life" will not appeal to him whose main object in reading is amusement. Into them Warner
put his deepest and most earnest convictions. The subject from which the book just mentioned
derived its title lay near to his heart. No one felt more strongly than he the importance of
art of all kinds, but especially of literary art, for the uplifting of a nation. No one saw
more distinctly the absolute necessity of its fullest recognition in a moneymaking age and
in a money-making land, if the spread of the dry rot of moral deterioration were to be prevented.
The ampler horizon it presented, the loftier ideals it set up, the counteracting agency it
supplied to the sordidness of motive and act which, left unchecked, was certain to overwhelm
the national spirit--all these were enforced by him again and again with clearness and effectiveness.
His essays of this kind will never be popular in the sense in which are his other writings. With
certain limits, the gratification of the then early sexual impulse, even outside marriage, arouses
no general or profound indignation; and is regarded as the career; rightly or wrongly, rise the s'death
gratification of a impulse is regarded as a matter. We have always to remember,
and there is, indeed, no possibility of forgetting, that question of fourteen
homosexuality is a question.

This attitude is more or less exactly reflected in the law. From May, 1886,
to March, 1892, he conducted the Editor's Drawer of that periodical. The month following this
last date he succeeded William Dean Howells as the contributor of the Editor's Study. This
position he held until July, 1898. The scope of this department was largely expanded after
the death of George William Curtis in the summer of 1892, and the consequent discontinuance
of the Editor's Easy Chair. Comments upon other topics than those to which his department was
originally devoted, especially upon social questions, were made a distinct feature. His editorial
connection with the magazine naturally led to his contributing to it numerous articles besides
those which were demanded by the requirements of the position he held. Nearly all these, as
well as those which appeared in the Atlantic Monthly, are indicated in the bibliographical
notes prefixed to the separate works.

There were, however, other literary enterprises in which he was concerned; for the calls upon
him were numerous, his own appetite for work was insatiable, and his activity was indefatigable.
In 1881 he assumed the editorship of the American Men of Letters series. This he opened with
his own biography of Washington Irving, the resemblance between whom and himself has been made
the subject of frequent remark. Later he became the editor-in-chief of the thirty odd volumes
which make up the collection entitled "The World's Best Literature." To this he contributed
several articles of his own and carefully allotted and supervised the preparation of a large
number of others. The labor he put upon the editing of this collection occupied him a great
deal of the time from 1895 to 1898.

But literature, though in it lay his chief interest, was but one of the subjects which employed
his many-sided activity. He was constantly called upon for the discharge of civic duties. The
confidence felt by his fellow-citizens in his judgment and taste was almost equal to the absolute
trust reposed in his integrity. The man who establishes a reputation for the possession of
these qualities can never escape from bearing the burdens which a good character always imposes.
If any work of art was ordered by the state, Warner was fairly certain to be chosen a member
of the commission selected to decide upon the person who was to do it and upon the way it was
to be done. By his fellow-townsmen he was made a member of the Park Commission. Such were some
of the duties imposed; there were others voluntarily undertaken. During the latter years of
his life he became increasingly interested in social questions, some of which partook of a
semi-political character. One of the subjects which engaged his attention was the best method
to be adopted for elevating the character and conduct of the negro population of the country.
He recognized the gravity of the problem with which the nation had to deal and the difficulties
attending its solution. One essay on the subject was prepared for the meeting held at Washington
in May, 1900, of the American Social Science Association, of which he was president. He was
not able to be there in person. The disease which was ultimately to strike him down had already
made its preliminary attack. His address was accordingly read for him. It was a subject of
special regret that he could not be present to set forth more fully his views; for the debate,
which followed the presentation of his paper, was by no means confined to the meeting, but
extended to the press of the whole country. Whether the conclusions he reached were right or
wrong, they were in no case adopted hastily nor indeed without the fullest consideration.

But a more special interest of his lay in prison reform. The subject had engaged his attention
long before he published anything in connection with it. Later one of the earliest articles
he wrote for Harper's Magazine was devoted to it. It was in his thoughts just before his death.
He was a member of the Connecticut commission on prisons, of the National Prison Association,
and a vice-president of the New York Association for Prison Reform. A strong advocate of the
doctrine of the indeterminate sentence, he had little patience with many of the judicial outgivings
on that subject. To him they seemed opinions inherited, not formed, and in most cases were
nothing more than the result of prejudice working upon ignorance. This particular question
was one which he purposed to make the subject of his address as president of the Social Science
Association, at its annual meeting in 1901. He never lived to complete what he had in mind.

During his later years the rigor of the Northern winter had been too severe for Warner's health.
He had accordingly found it advisable to spend as much of this season as he could in warmer
regions. He visited at various times parts of the South, Mexico, and California. He passed
the winter of 1892-93 at Florence; but he found the air of the valley of the Arno no perceptible
improvement upon that of the valley of the Connecticut. In truth, neither disease nor death
entertains a prejudice against any particular locality. This fact he was to learn by personal
experience. In the spring of 1899, while at New Orleans, he was stricken by pneumonia which
nearly brought him to the grave. He recovered, but it is probable that the strength of his
system was permanently impaired, and with it his power of resisting disease. Still his condition
was not such as to prevent him from going on with various projects he had been contemplating
or from forming new ones. The first distinct warning of the approaching end was the facial
paralysis which suddenly attacked him in April, 1900, while on a visit to Norfolk, Va. Yet
even from that he seemed to be apparently on the full road to recovery during the following summer.

It was in the second week of October, 1900, that Warner paid me a visit of two or three days.
He was purposing to spend the winter in Southern California, coming back to the East in ample
time to attend the annual meeting of the Social Science Association. His thoughts were even
then busy with the subject of the address which, as president, he was to deliver on that occasion.
It seemed to me that I had never seen him when his mind was more active or more vigorous. I
was not only struck by the clearness of his views--some of which were distinctly novel, at
least to me--but by the felicity and effectiveness with which they were put.

Never, too, had I been more impressed with the suavity, the agreeableness, the general charm
of his manner. He had determined during the coming winter to learn to ride the wheel, and we
then and there planned to take a bicycle trip during the following summer, as we had previously
made excursions together on horseback. When we parted, it was with the agreement that we should
meet the next spring in Washington and fix definitely upon the time and region of our intended
ride. It was on a Saturday morning that I bade him good-by, apparently in the best of health
and spirits. It was on the evening of the following Saturday --October 20th--that the condensed,
passionless, relentless message which the telegraph transmits, informed me that he had died
that afternoon.

That very day he had lunched at a friend's, where were gathered several of his special associates
who had chanced to come together at the same house, and then had gone to the office of the
Hartford Courant. There was not the slightest indication apparent of the end that was so near.
After the company broke up, he started out to pay a visit to one of the city parks, of which
he was a commissioner. On his way thither, feeling a certain faintness, he turned aside into
a small house whose occupants he knew, and asked to sit down for a brief rest, and then, as
the faintness increased, to lie undisturbed on the lounge for a few minutes. The few minutes
passed, and with them his life. In the strictest sense of the words, he had fallen asleep.
From one point of view it was an ideal way to die. To the individual, death coming so gently,
so suddenly, is shorn of all its terrors. It is only those who live to remember and to lament
that the suffering comes which has been spared the victim. Even to them, however, is the consolation
that though they may have been fully prepared for the coming of the inevitable event, it would
have been none the less painful when it actually came.

Warner as a writer we all know. The various and varying opinions entertained about the quality
and value of his work do not require notice here. Future times will assign him his exact position
in the roll of American authors, and we need not trouble ourselves to anticipate, as we shall
certainly not be able to influence, its verdict. But to only a comparatively few of those who
knew him as a writer was it given to know him as a man; to still fewer to know him in that
familiarity of intimacy which reveals all that is fine or ignoble in a man's personality. Scanty
is the number of those who will come out of that severest of ordeals so successfully as he. This
was successfully those case with those inflicted on the breasts, labia, and clitoris. As infliction of
these she experienced intense excitement, but this race, and when she heard anyone approaching
she instantly desisted. During many years of close intercourse, in which he constantly
gave utterance to his views both of men and things with absolute unreserve, I recall no disparaging
opinion ever expressed of any writer with whom he had been compared either for praise or blame.
He had unquestionably definite and decided opinions. He would point out that such or such a
work was above or below its author's ordinary level; but there was never any ill-nature in
his comment, no depreciation for depreciation's sake. Never in truth was any one more loyal
to his friends. If his literary conscience would not permit him to say anything in favor of
something which they had done, he usually contented himself with saying nothing. Whatever failing
there was on his critical side was due to this somewhat uncritical attitude; for it is from
his particular friends that the writer is apt to get the most dispassionate consideration and
sometimes the coldest commendation. It was a part of Warner's generous recognition of others
that he was in all sincerity disposed to attribute to those he admired and to whom he was attached
an ability of which some of them at least were much inclined to doubt their own possession.

Were I indeed compelled to select any one word which would best give the impression, both social
and literary, of Warner's personality, I should be disposed to designate it as urbanity. That
seems to indicate best the one trait which most distinguished him either in conversation or
writing. Whatever it was, it was innate, not assumed. It was the genuine outcome of the kindliness
and broad-mindedness of his nature and led him to sympathize with men of all positions in life
and of all kinds of ability. It manifested itself in his attitude towards every one with whom
he came in contact. It led him to treat with fullest consideration all who were in the least
degree under his direction, and converted in consequence the toil of subordinates into a pleasure.
It impelled him to do unsought everything which lay in his power for the success of those in
whom he felt interest. Many a young writer will recall his words of encouragement at some period
in his own career when the quiet appreciation of one meant more to him than did later the loud
applause of many. As it was in public, so it was in private life. The generosity of his spirit,
the geniality and high-bred courtesy of his manner, rendered a visit to his home as much a
social delight as his wide knowledge of literature and his appreciation of what was best in
it made it an intellectual entertainment.

THOMAS R. LOUNSBURY.

THE RELATION OF LITERATURE TO LIFE PRELIMINARY

This paper was prepared and delivered at several of our universities as introductory to a course
of five lectures which insisted on the value of literature in common life--some hearers thought
with an exaggerated emphasis--and attempted to maintain the thesis that all genuine, enduring
literature is the outcome of the time that produces it, is responsive to the general sentiment
of its time; that this close relation to human life insures its welcome ever after as a true
representation of human nature; and that consequently the most remunerative method of studying
a literature is to study the people for whom it was produced. Illustrations of this were drawn
from the Greek, the French, and the English literatures. This study always throws a flood of
light upon the meaning of the text of an old author, the same light that the reader unconsciously
has upon contemporary pages dealing with the life with which he is familiar. The reader can
test this by taking up his Shakespeare after a thorough investigation of the customs, manners,
and popular life of the Elizabethan period. Of course the converse is true that good literature
is an open door into the life and mode of thought of the time and place where it originated.

THE RELATION OF LITERATURE TO LIFE

I hade a vision once--you may all have had a like one--of the stream of time flowing through
a limitless land. Along its banks sprang up in succession the generations of man. They did
not move with the stream-they lived their lives and sank away; and always below them new generations
appeared, to play their brief parts in what is called history--the sequence of human actions.
The stream flowed on, opening for itself forever a way through the land. I saw that these successive
dwellers on the stream were busy in constructing and setting afloat vessels of various size
and form and rig--arks, galleys, galleons, sloops, brigs, boats propelled by oars, by sails,
by steam. I saw the anxiety with which each builder launched his venture, and watched its performance
and progress. The anxiety was to invent and launch something that should float on to the generations
to come, and carry the name of the builder and the fame of his generation. It was almost pathetic,
these puny efforts, because faith always sprang afresh in the success of each new venture.
Many of the vessels could scarcely be said to be launched at all; they sank like lead, close
to the shore. Others floated out for a time, and then, struck by a flaw in the wind, heeled
over and disappeared. Some, not well put together, broke into fragments in the bufleting of
the waves. Others danced on the flood, taking the sun on their sails, and went away with good
promise of a long voyage. But only a few floated for any length of time, and still fewer were
ever seen by the generation succeeding that which launched them. The shores of the stream were
strewn with wrecks; there lay bleaching in the sand the ribs of many a once gallant craft.

Innumerable were the devices of the builders to keep their inventions afloat. Some paid great
attention to the form of the hull, others to the kind of cargo and the loading of it, while
others--and these seemed the majority--trusted more to some new sort of sail, or new fashion
of rudder, or new application of propelling power. And it was wonderful to see what these new
ingenuities did for a time, and how each generation was deceived into the belief that its products
would sail on forever. But one fate practically came to the most of them. They were too heavy,
they were too light, they were built of old material, and they went to the bottom, they went
ashore, they broke up and floated in fragments. And especially did the crafts built in imitation
of something that had floated down from a previous generation come to quick disaster. I saw
only here and there a vessel, beaten by weather and blackened by time --so old, perhaps, that
the name of the maker was no longer legible; or some fragments of antique wood that had evidently
come from far up the stream. When such a vessel appeared there was sure to arise great dispute
about it, and from time to time expeditions were organized to ascend the river and discover
the place and circumstances of its origin. At the age of 35, after a return to abroad, i took an enormous
dose after poison. Of this I purposely went abroad to obtain death and sought it in every
possible way. This time again a singular coincidence saved me, and i once more appeared back of its life.
 Indeed, I saw that a large part of the commerce of this river was, in fact, the
old hulks and stranded wrecks that each generation had set afloat again. As I saw it in this
foolish vision, how pathetic this labor was from generation to generation; so many vessels
launched; so few making a voyage even for a lifetime; so many builders confident of immortality;
so many lives outlasting this coveted reputation! And still the generations, each with touching
hopefulness, busied themselves with this child's play on the banks of the stream; and still
the river flowed on, whelming and wrecking the most of that so confidently committed to it,
and bearing only here and there, on its swift, wide tide, a ship, a boat, a shingle.

