Now though that accomplishment is a necessity in a ball-room, I do not consider it indispensable
in a husband. Unfortunately you cannot dance through life. I wish you could for many reasons.
A continual change of partners, for instance, would it not be refreshing? You would scarcely
have time to grow tired of them. And how much more polite our husbands would be if they thought
we were only fleeting joys! What am I saying? I am shocking everyone I am afraid; the little
matron who advocates married life, the newly-made brides whose ideal men are realized in their
husbands--I am shocking them all! I humbly plead forgiveness. You see, I am not married myself.
I can only give my impressions as a looker-on, and, as Thackeray says, "One is bound to speak
the truth as far as one knows it, and a deal of disagreeable matter must come out in the course
of such an undertaking."

But dancing is indispensable in a ball-room. If a man cannot dance he should stay away, and
not make an object of himself. Unfortunately, so many think they excel in the art when they
have not the least idea of it. Again, with girls, dancing (in a ball-room only, of course)
comes before charm of manner, before wit, even before beauty. I know girls, absolutely plain,
with not a word to say for themselves, who dance every dance, while the walls of the room are
lined with pretty faces, and dismal-looking enough they are too, which is very foolish of them.
They should have too much pride to show their discomfiture.

Men have so much the best of it at dances--so everybody says. I am afraid I do not agree. I
would not change our positions for anything. After all, a girl can nearly always dance with
anyone she likes, and pick and choose as well as the men--provided, of course, that she is
an adept on the "light fantastic toe" herself.

And think, on the other hand, what men go through! Reverse the order of things, as you are
supposed to do at leap year dances--which system, however, is never properly carried out. But
suppose you go up to a man and ask him for a dance, and he tells you with a smile that "he
is very sorry, but really he has not one left." Suppose that the next minute you see him give
three to another girl, would you speak to that man ever again? Never! And yet this is what
they constantly endure and, what is more, forgive.

After all, if you analyze it, what an absurd thing dancing is. Close your ears to the music
and look around you when a ball is at its height. What motive, you foolishly wonder, could
induce all these people--who are supposed to possess an average amount of brains--to assemble
together to clasp each other round the waist, twirl round and round up and down the room, suddenly
stop, and hurry one after another outside the dancing hall, seeking dark corners, secret retreats,
anywhere away from the eyes of other men? "Ah, what a mad world it is, my masters!"

How our grandmothers exclaim at the present mode of dancing!--they who used to consider round
dances almost improper. How the programmes must astonish them, too; those engagement cards
that did not exist fifty years ago, and in their infancy were quite content to bear only two
or three names on their paper countenances. But now times have changed, and as they grow older
they become most greedy little cards. They are not only not content with being scribbled all
over, but require two names on the top of one another, and thus causing dissensions to ensue.

There is a great deal of art in making up a programme. It is a mistake to be full up before
you arrive. Someone may come whom you did not expect, and then you have no dance to give him.
Arrangement of a programme requires two or three seasons' practice. There are the duty dances
to be got through first; put them up early, so that they shall be soon over, and then you have
the good ones at the end to look forward to.

Everyone has duty dances. There are your father's constituents, clients, patients, someone
you are obliged to ingratiate, and these are generally the worst dancers in the room! One is
so fat he shakes the hall as he walks, and yet is just as eager to join the giddy throng, and
alas! to take you with him! Another resembles the little tin soldiers which schoolboys have
such an affection for, in that he has been gifted with large flat stands, twice the length
of himself, instead of feet. And oh, how he kicks! Then there is the complimentary man, a creature
who never opens his mouth without making or implying a compliment. Does he ever find anyone
whom this system pleases, I wonder! The only antidote I can find is to take no notice, and
pretend not to understand that the pretty speeches are directed at you. This discourages him
after a time.

It is amusing to get hold of a man's programme, and find out how you are represented there.
They do not put down names, but describe costumes, hoping thus to find their partners easier,
but in reality plunging themselves into most hopeless perplexities. They scribble down "pearl
necklace," and find later that there are at least sixteen in the room, and so are worse off
than if they had written the name.

Some describe the personal appearance, but this is a very risky thing to do. A man the other
day wrote down his partner as "Miss blue dress, with the nose," and subsequently dropped his
programme, which, of course, was picked up by the lady mentioned. Now I do not know why you
should dislike being told that you have a nose--you would feel very much worse without one--but
when your nasal organ takes up double its share of room in your face, and is, moreover, prettily
tinted with scarlet, which you try to conceal under a little pearl powder, and only succeed
in making it purple--well, perhaps you would not like to be told you have a nose. At any rate,
this lady did not, and hers very much resembled this description, I believe. But she was a
wise woman. Not a word did she say on the subject, and he went home happily unconscious of
her fatal discovery, until a few days later he received his programme back as a Christmas card,
with "Miss blue dress with the nose's compliments." How very comfortable he must have felt
when he met her next!

What a great many different styles of dancing there are! You have to change your step with
nearly every partner. The girl should always suit hers to the man's, he has quite enough to
do with the steering. You require about five good partners altogether, and can then spend an
enjoyable evening. A different man for every dance is tiring. You never get beyond the theatres
and the weather; you have not time to say much more, and grow quite weary of the same style
of conversation. I always think I must be a most uninteresting partner when I am asked what
theatres I have been to lately, or what is my opinion of the Academy, &c., &c. I never begin
this kind of talk myself except as a last resource, when I can get nothing else out of a man.
Someone says, I forget who, that "a woman can always know in what opinion she is held by the
conversation addressed to her," and is it not true? The foolish compliments paid to the pretty,
but silly little débutante; the small talk to the fools; the sparring with the witty; the risqué
tales enjoyed by those of a more rapid style. Men find out first what are our tastes, and then
dish up their conversation accordingly, and they do not often make mistakes.

Some girls dance with one man the whole evening. How weary they must get of each other! Engaged
people invariably pass the evening together, and sometimes do not dance at all, but sit out
in some secluded corner. They have to endure one another for years to come, I wonder they do
not get as much variety as possible now. At any rate, they might just as well stop at home.

Like everything else, dancing is hurrying along, and growing faster every year. The deux-temps,
they say is coming back. May the day be far ahead when that step reigns once more! Perhaps
before then I shall be converted into a chaperone, and shall sit watching others dance, not
being able to do so myself; or, perhaps worse, not being asked myself. I am afraid I should
not make a nice chaperone. I should look very cross, and should hurry away as early as possible.
Ah, sad indeed will the day be when I give up dancing, when only the remembrance of my past
enjoyments will be brought back to me through the scent of gardenias and tube-roses, dear dissipated-smelling
flowers!

CHAPTER XII.

ON WATERING PLACES.

What a great deal of trouble and time it takes to choose a watering-place! And yet there are
many and various kinds of resorts, some for one season, some for another.

If you could be carried sufficiently high above the earth so as to have a bird's-eye view of
the whole of Great Britain, what a strange sight it would present during the months of August
and September! The county would appear surrounded with a human fringe, the outer edge more
resembling a disturbed ants' hill than anything else. I don't suppose we should appear more
significant than ants at that distance.

There are those places teeming with shop-keepers and children, when you can scarcely see the
beach so covered is it with those who are making the most of their one holiday in the year.

There is the primitive little village, discovered by few, which is welcomed by the city man
who wants rest and entire seclusion from business matters and the world for a month or two.
And oh, what language he uses! and how annoyed he is to find absolutely nothing to do--one
post a day, and, worst of all, no newspaper until late in the afternoon! And this is the man
who wishes to be shut out from the world and from his acquaintances! There is no pier, there
are no amusements. The esplanade is composed of nothing more than a plank of wood, on which,
in walking you have to observe much caution in order to keep your balance; and sometimes the
butcher from the neighboring village forgets to call! In desperation, the unfortunate creature
digs sand-castles with his children, and, after a few days of his banishment, grows quite excited
as the waves wash up and undermine their foundations. He picks acquaintance with anybody he
comes across, be he peer or peasant--anything to make the time pass a little quicker until
he can return to the stir of his business life again.

Someone remarks somewhere that "a man works one-half of his life in order that he may rest
the other." I wonder if those who are successful ever appreciate their rest when they get it!
I wonder if it comes up to their expectations! if the goal toward which they have been looking
almost since they began to exist is worth the trouble and energy spent on it! Ah, I am afraid
they very rarely find it so! They have become so immured in their busy lives, that it is difficult
to grow accustomed to any other. Unless one is brought up to it, the Dolce far niente is not
an existence we enjoy. We are made the wrong way about somehow. We ought to be born old and
gradually grow younger as the years roll on. Still, I daresay there would be something to complain
of even then, and perhaps it would not be very dignified to go off the stage as a baby!

To go to the opposite extreme, there are the fashionable water-places; little Londons, or rather
little imitations of London; for beside that great capital itself they are like pieces of glass
to a diamond. And yet fashion and folly are all here, sunning themselves by the sea instead
of in the park; driving up and down in the same way, in equally charming toilets. But still
there seems to be something lacking, something wanting. They are too small, these towns; you
so soon know everyone by sight, and grow tired both of them and their costumes. There is a
good deal of stir and life about all the same. There are bands, niggers, clairvoyantes, fire-eaters;
plenty indeed for you to see and hear when you are weary of strutting up and down and nodding
to your friends. And yet, in spite of all, you grow tired of "London by the sea," after a few
weeks, even in that dead season of the year--November.

Have you ever visited one of these places in the midst of a tennis week, when the grand tournaments
take place? Lawn tennis is a delightful recreation for a time, provided you have a good partner
and good antagonists, and you are playing under a moderately warm sun; but when you hear, see,
and play nothing else for a week, when the conversation is "tennis," when no one appears without
a racquet in his hand, when all you have to listen to are criticisms on the courts and balls,
grumblings against the handicapping, imprecations on "bisques"--well, you begin to hate the
very name, and wish you could injure the man who invented it. You grow tired of watching the
same thing day after day, the men who spend their lives in tossing balls across to each other,
the sea of faces; turning backwards and forwards at each stroke with the regulation of a pendulum.

Yes, it takes a long time to decide on a watering place, and when at last you do make up your
mind you have to change it again very soon because you find all your "sisters, cousins, and
aunts" have chosen the same resort; and really you have quite enough of your relations in town
without their following you wherever you go. You require a little variety when you go away.
An old lady I used to know always kept it a profound secret where she intended spending her
summer holiday, "otherwise, my dear," she said, "I should have the whole family at my heels!"
A most disagreeable old lady she was; and I know for a fact that her relatives always avoided
her when possible (she was not blessed with very great possessions!) so that her caution was
quite unnecessary. Oh, vanity of vanities, how little we know of the world's true opinion of us!

When you have fixed on your locality, there is even a greater difficulty to go through. You
have to choose your residence; and this takes up even more thought and time.

There are the lodging-houses, monotonous in their similarity. The same gilt-edged mirrors protected
from the dust by green perforated paper; the same jar of wax flowers, standing on a mat which
is composed of floral designs in Berlin wool--designs to which you can give any name you like--"You
pays your money and you takes your choice." They represent anything, the whole concern hiding
its modest head under a glass case; the same shavings in the grate, with long trails of roses
gently slumbering on the top; yes, and the same voluble landlady, the whole of whose private
concerns you are in possession of five minutes after you have taken the apartments.

There is the boarding-house, advertised as "Directly facing the sea;" and when you have engaged
your rooms, and arrive with all your luggage, you find the establishment is at the far end
of a side street; and "Directly facing the sea" is interpreted by the fact that by hanging
half-way out of the sitting-room widow, and screwing your head round violently to the left,
you can see the place where that watery monarch ought to be.

"A boarding-house is so much nicer than an hotel, because you get to know the people so much
easier," I heard a girl remark once. This is my chief objection to a boarding-house. Because
you are staying under the same roof, all the inhabitants consider they have a right to address
you, and, what is more, they will not be repulsed, which, as most of them by no means move
in the best society, is not at all palatable. The women you can tolerate, but the men are not
to be endured. You are always coming across them, too. On whatever drive, excursion, or trip
you take you invariably meet "boarding-houseites," who are only too ready to recognize you.
You can never get away from them; there is only the public drawing-room, and there they come
in and out, talking to you, interrupting you, or else causing your ears to ache by their attempts
at music.(?)

The meals are somewhat amusing, as you can watch all your fellow-boarders without being disturbed.
They cannot talk and eat at the same time, and so philosophically devote all their energies
to their dinner.

There is the girl who scrapes up acquaintances with everybody. She has had the good luck to
be placed near a man, and the demure way in which she prattles and smiles at him convinces
you that she is trying to make the best use of her time. Sometimes he is absent, and then the
smiles give way to the gloomiest expression. Finally, on the arrival of new-comers, when there
is a sort of general post all round, she is placed at the farthest extreme to her late partner,
and oh! the wistful little glances she passes up the table to the gourmand who, oblivious to
all but his dinner, scarcely notices her departure.

There are the three old maids, intent on capturing a husband. They have come here as a last
resource. But with the usual fickleness of fortune, they seem to be more shunned by the male
sex than attracted to it.

There is the newly-married couple, looking very conscious and silly, as if they were the only
people in the world who had ever committed matrimony.

There is one old lady grumbling, and objecting to the back of a chicken. Poor birds, they have
only two wings each, and really cannot provide everybody with them! There is another furious,
because on asking for a favorite dish, that is down in the menu, is told that "it is all served!"
The best things always are, unless you manage to get into the good graces of the waiter or
waitress.

Young men and maidens, old men and children, all here, offering plenty of material for students
of human nature!

Hotel life is very different. Even if you find the parvenu and nouveau riche as equally objectionable
as the boarding-house species, at least they do not force their acquaintance upon you. The
table d'hote is much more entertaining, and you are altogether more independent. Characters
you come across occasionally that are most interesting to study. There are the girls who are
taking the round of hotels by their mothers, in the hopes of getting them "off." There are
the men who astonish everybody by their generosity and apparent display of riches, and finally
decamp without paying their bill.

A man was telling me the other day of a certain "black sheep" who had run into difficulty;
how his family after a great deal of trouble managed to raise £200 between them, and sent him
off to America with the money to start afresh in a new country. In a month's time he was back
again, penniless as ever, and cursing his luck and bad fortune. It was only by accident they
discovered the bills of the best hotels in New York in his pocket, and found that he had been
living like a prince while his £200 lasted, nor had tried at all to obtain any occupation.

With such consummate cheek, a man ought to get on in the world, I think, for after all it is
self-confidence and "bluffing" that seems to succeed most. However down in the world you are,
however bad your "hand," you only have to "bluff" a little to make it all right. There are
many foolish people in the world ready to be your dupes, and luckily they never think of asking
to "see" you. Even the best of us try it on a little; we strive to hide our skeletons under
the cloak of cheerfulness, and entirely disguise our real feelings--

    "Alas, our frailty is the cause, not we;
    For, such as we are made of, such we be."

THE END.