The instinct of barbarism that leads people periodically to throw aside the habits of civilization,
and seek the freedom and discomfort of the woods, is explicable enough; but it is not so easy
to understand why this passion should be strongest in those who are most refined, and most
trained in intellectual and social fastidiousness. Philistinism and shoddy do not like the
woods, unless it becomes fashionable to do so; and then, as speedily as possible, they introduce
their artificial luxuries, and reduce the life in the wilderness to the vulgarity of a well-fed
picnic. It is they who have strewn the Adirondacks with paper collars and tin cans. The real
enjoyment of camping and tramping in the woods lies in a return to primitive conditions of
lodging, dress, and food, in as total an escape as may be from the requirements of civilization.
And it remains to be explained why this is enjoyed most by those who are most highly civilized.
It is wonderful to see how easily the restraints of society fall off. Of course it is not true
that courtesy depends upon clothes with the best people; but, with others, behavior hangs almost
entirely upon dress. Many good habits are easily got rid of in the woods. Doubt sometimes seems
to be felt whether Sunday is a legal holiday there. It becomes a question of casuistry with
a clergyman whether he may shoot at a mark on Sunday, if none of his congregation are present.
He intends no harm: he only gratifies a curiosity to see if he can hit the mark. Where shall
he draw the line? Doubtless he might throw a stone at a chipmunk, or shout at a loon. Might
he fire at a mark with an air-gun that makes no noise? He will not fish or hunt on Sunday (although
he is no more likely to catch anything that day than on any other); but may he eat trout that
the guide has caught on Sunday, if the guide swears he caught them Saturday night? Is there
such a thing as a vacation in religion? How much of our virtue do we owe to inherited habits?

I am not at all sure whether this desire to camp outside of civilization is creditable to human
nature, or otherwise. We hear sometimes that the Turk has been merely camping for four centuries
in Europe. I suspect that many of us are, after all, really camping temporarily in civilized
conditions; and that going into the wilderness is an escape, longed for, into our natural and
preferred state. Consider what this "camping out" is, that is confessedly so agreeable to people
most delicately reared. I have no desire to exaggerate its delights.

The Adirondack wilderness is essentially unbroken. A few bad roads that penetrate it, a few
jolting wagons that traverse them, a few barn-like boarding-houses on the edge of the forest,
where the boarders are soothed by patent coffee, and stimulated to unnatural gayety by Japan
tea, and experimented on by unique cookery, do little to destroy the savage fascination of
the region. In half an hour, at any point, one can put himself into solitude and every desirable
discomfort. The party that covets the experience of the camp comes down to primitive conditions
of dress and equipment. There are guides and porters to carry the blankets for beds, the raw
provisions, and the camp equipage; and the motley party of the temporarily decivilized files
into the woods, and begins, perhaps by a road, perhaps on a trail, its exhilarating and weary
march. The exhilaration arises partly from the casting aside of restraint, partly from the
adventure of exploration; and the weariness, from the interminable toil of bad walking, a heavy
pack, and the grim monotony of trees and bushes, that shut out all prospect, except an occasional
glimpse of the sky. Mountains are painfully climbed, streams forded, lonesome lakes paddled
over, long and muddy "carries" traversed. Fancy this party the victim of political exile, banished
by the law, and a more sorrowful march could not be imagined; but the voluntary hardship becomes
pleasure, and it is undeniable that the spirits of the party rise as the difficulties increase.

For this straggling and stumbling band the world is young again: it has come to the beginning
of things; it has cut loose from tradition, and is free to make a home anywhere: the movement
has all the promise of a revolution. All this virginal freshness invites the primitive instincts
of play and disorder. The free range of the forests suggests endless possibilities of exploration
and possession. Perhaps we are treading where man since the creation never trod before; perhaps
the waters of this bubbling spring, which we deepen by scraping out the decayed leaves and
the black earth, have never been tasted before, except by the wild denizens of these woods.
We cross the trails of lurking animals,--paths that heighten our sense of seclusion from the
world. The hammering of the infrequent woodpecker, the call of the lonely bird, the drumming
of the solitary partridge,--all these sounds do but emphasize the lonesomeness of nature. The
roar of the mountain brook, dashing over its bed of pebbles, rising out of the ravine, and
spreading, as it were, a mist of sound through all the forest (continuous beating waves that
have the rhythm of eternity in them), and the fitful movement of the air-tides through the
balsams and firs and the giant pines,--how these grand symphonies shut out the little exasperations
of our vexed life! It seems easy to begin life over again on the simplest terms. Probably it
is not so much the desire of the congregation to escape from the preacher, or of the preacher
to escape from himself, that drives sophisticated people into the wilderness, as it is the
unconquered craving for primitive simplicity, the revolt against the everlasting dress-parade
of our civilization. From this monstrous pomposity even the artificial rusticity of a Petit
Trianon is a relief. It was only human nature that the jaded Frenchman of the regency should
run away to the New World, and live in a forest-hut with an Indian squaw; although he found
little satisfaction in his act of heroism, unless it was talked about at Versailles.

When our trampers come, late in the afternoon, to the bank of a lovely lake where they purpose
to enter the primitive life, everything is waiting for them in virgin expectation. There is
a little promontory jutting into the lake, and sloping down to a sandy beach, on which the
waters idly lapse, and shoals of red-fins and shiners come to greet the stranger; the forest
is untouched by the axe; the tender green sweeps the water's edge; ranks of slender firs are
marshaled by the shore; clumps of white-birch stems shine in satin purity among the evergreens;
the boles of giant spruces, maples, and oaks, lifting high their crowns of foliage, stretch
away in endless galleries and arcades; through the shifting leaves the sunshine falls upon
the brown earth; overhead are fragments of blue sky; under the boughs and in chance openings
appear the bluer lake and the outline of the gracious mountains. The discoverers of this paradise,
which they have entered to destroy, note the babbling of the brook that flows close at hand;
they hear the splash of the leaping fish; they listen to the sweet, metallic song of the evening
thrush, and the chatter of the red squirrel, who angrily challenges their right to be there.
But the moment of sentiment passes. This party has come here to eat and to sleep, and not to
encourage Nature in her poetic attitudinizing.

The spot for a shanty is selected. This side shall be its opening, towards the lake; and in
front of it the fire, so that the smoke shall drift into the hut, and discourage the mosquitoes;
yonder shall be the cook's fire and the path to the spring. The whole colony bestir themselves
in the foundation of a new home,--an enterprise that has all the fascination, and none of the
danger, of a veritable new settlement in the wilderness. The axes of the guides resound in
the echoing spaces; great trunks fall with a crash; vistas are opened towards the lake and
the mountains. The spot for the shanty is cleared of underbrush; forked stakes are driven into
the ground, cross-pieces are laid on them, and poles sloping back to the ground. In an incredible
space of time there is the skeleton of a house, which is entirely open in front. The roof and
sides must be covered. For this purpose the trunks of great spruces are skinned. The woodman
rims the bark near the foot of the tree, and again six feet above, and slashes it perpendicularly;
then, with a blunt stick, he crowds off this thick hide exactly as an ox is skinned. It needs
but a few of these skins to cover the roof; and they make a perfectly water-tight roof, except
when it rains. Meantime busy hands have gathered boughs of the spruce and the feathery balsam,
and shingled the ground underneath the shanty for a bed. It is an aromatic bed: in theory it
is elastic and consoling. Upon it are spread the blankets. The sleepers, of all sexes and ages,
are to lie there in a row, their feet to the fire, and their heads under the edge of the sloping
roof. Nothing could be better contrived. The fire is in front: it is not a fire, but a conflagration--a
vast heap of green logs set on fire--of pitch, and split dead-wood, and crackling balsams,
raging and roaring. By the time, twilight falls, the cook has prepared supper. There is no
deception about it: it tastes of tannin and spruce and creosote. Everything, in short, has
the flavor of the wilderness and a free life. It is idyllic. And yet, with all our sentimentality,
there is nothing feeble about the cooking. Good, robust victuals are what the primitive man wants.

Darkness falls suddenly. Outside the ring of light from our conflagration the woods are black.
There is a tremendous impression of isolation and lonesomeness in our situation. We are the
prisoners of the night. The woods never seemed so vast and mysterious. The trees are gigantic.
There are noises that we do not understand,--mysterious winds passing overhead, and rambling
in the great galleries, tree-trunks grinding against each other, undefinable stirs and uneasinesses.
The shapes of those who pass into the dimness are outlined in monstrous proportions. The spectres,
seated about in the glare of the fire, talk about appearances and presentiments and religion.
The guides cheer the night with bear-fights, and catamount encounters, and frozen-to-death
experiences, and simple tales of great prolixity and no point, and jokes of primitive lucidity.
We hear catamounts, and the stealthy tread of things in the leaves, and the hooting of owls,
and, when the moon rises, the laughter of the loon. Everything is strange, spectral, fascinating.

By and by we get our positions in the shanty for the night, and arrange the row of sleepers.
The shanty has become a smoke-house by this time: waves of smoke roll into it from the fire.
It is only by lying down, and getting the head well under the eaves, that one can breathe.
No one can find her "things"; nobody has a pillow. At length the row is laid out, with the
solemn protestation of intention to sleep. The wind, shifting, drives away the smoke.

Good-night is said a hundred times; positions are readjusted, more last words, new shifting
about, final remarks; it is all so comfortable and romantic; and then silence. Silence continues
for a minute. The fire flashes up; all the row of heads is lifted up simultaneously to watch
it; showers of sparks sail aloft into the blue night; the vast vault of greenery is a fairy
spectacle. How the sparks mount and twinkle and disappear like tropical fireflies, and all
the leaves murmur, and clap their hands! Some of the sparks do not go out: we see them flaming
in the sky when the flame of the fire has died down. Well, good-night, goodnight. More folding
of the arms to sleep; more grumbling about the hardness of a hand-bag, or the insufficiency
of a pocket-handkerchief, for a pillow. Good-night. Was that a remark?--something about a root,
a stub in the ground sticking into the back. "You couldn't lie along a hair?"---"Well, no:
here's another stub. It needs but a moment for the conversation to become general,--about roots
under the shoulder, stubs in the back, a ridge on which it is impossible for the sleeper to
balance, the non-elasticity of boughs, the hardness of the ground, the heat, the smoke, the
chilly air. Subjects of remarks multiply. The whole camp is awake, and chattering like an aviary.
The owl is also awake; but the guides who are asleep outside make more noise than the owls.
Water is wanted, and is handed about in a dipper. Everybody is yawning; everybody is now determined
to go to sleep in good earnest. A last good-night. There is an appalling silence. It is interrupted
in the most natural way in the world. Somebody has got the start, and gone to sleep. He proclaims
the fact. He seems to have been brought up on the seashore, and to know how to make all the
deep-toned noises of the restless ocean. He is also like a war-horse; or, it is suggested,
like a saw-horse. How malignantly he snorts, and breaks off short, and at once begins again
in another key! One head is raised after another.

"Who is that?"

"Somebody punch him."

"Turn him over."

"Reason with him."

The sleeper is turned over. The turn was a mistake. He was before, it appears, on his most
agreeable side. The camp rises in indignation. The sleeper sits up in bewilderment. Before
he can go off again, two or three others have preceded him. They are all alike. You never can
judge what a person is when he is awake. There are here half a dozen disturbers of the peace
who should be put in solitary confinement. At midnight, when a philosopher crawls out to sit
on a log by the fire, and smoke a pipe, a duet in tenor and mezzo-soprano is going on in the
shanty, with a chorus always coming in at the wrong time. Those who are not asleep want to
know why the smoker doesn't go to bed. He is requested to get some water, to throw on another
log, to see what time it is, to note whether it looks like rain. A buzz of conversation arises.
She is sure she heard something behind the shanty. He says it is all nonsense. "Perhaps, however,
it might be a mouse."

"Mercy! Are there mice?"

"Plenty."

"Then that's what I heard nibbling by my head. I shan't sleep a wink! Do they bite?"

"No, they nibble; scarcely ever take a full bite out."

"It's horrid!"

Towards morning it grows chilly; the guides have let the fire go out; the blankets will slip
down. Anxiety begins to be expressed about the dawn.

"What time does the sun rise?"

"Awful early. Did you sleep?

"Not a wink. And you?"

"In spots. I'm going to dig up this root as soon as it is light enough."

"See that mist on the lake, and the light just coming on the Gothics! I'd no idea it was so
cold: all the first part of the night I was roasted."

"What were they talking about all night?"

When the party crawls out to the early breakfast, after it has washed its faces in the lake,
it is disorganized, but cheerful. Nobody admits much sleep; but everybody is refreshed, and
declares it delightful. It is the fresh air all night that invigorates; or maybe it is the
tea, or the slap-jacks. The guides have erected a table of spruce bark, with benches at the
sides; so that breakfast is taken in form. It is served on tin plates and oak chips. After
breakfast begins the day's work. It may be a mountain-climbing expedition, or rowing and angling
in the lake, or fishing for trout in some stream two or three miles distant. Nobody can stir
far from camp without a guide. Hammocks are swung, bowers are built novel-reading begins, worsted
work appears, cards are shuffled and dealt. The day passes in absolute freedom from responsibility
to one's self. At night when the expeditions return, the camp resumes its animation. Adventures
are recounted, every statement of the narrator being disputed and argued. Everybody has become
an adept in woodcraft; but nobody credits his neighbor with like instinct. Society getting
resolved into its elements, confidence is gone.

Whilst the hilarious party are at supper, a drop or two of rain falls. The head guide is appealed
to. Is it going to rain? He says it does rain. But will it be a rainy night? The guide goes
down to the lake, looks at the sky, and concludes that, if the wind shifts a p'int more, there
is no telling what sort of weather we shall have. Meantime the drops patter thicker on the
leaves overhead, and the leaves, in turn, pass the water down to the table; the sky darkens;
the wind rises; there is a kind of shiver in the woods; and we scud away into the shanty, taking
the remains of our supper, and eating it as best we can. The rain increases. The fire sputters
and fumes. All the trees are dripping, dripping, and the ground is wet. We cannot step outdoors
without getting a drenching. Like sheep, we are penned in the little hut, where no one can
stand erect. The rain swirls into the open front, and wets the bottom of the blankets. The
smoke drives in. We curl up, and enjoy ourselves. The guides at length conclude that it is
going to be damp. The dismal situation sets us all into good spirits; and it is later than
the night before when we crawl under our blankets, sure this time of a sound sleep, lulled
by the storm and the rain resounding on the bark roof. How much better off we are than many
a shelter-less wretch! We are as snug as dry herrings. At the moment, however, of dropping
off to sleep, somebody unfortunately notes a drop of water on his face; this is followed by
another drop; in an instant a stream is established. He moves his head to a dry place. Scarcely
has he done so, when he feels a dampness in his back. Reaching his hand outside, he finds a
puddle of water soaking through his blanket. By this time, somebody inquires if it is possible
that the roof leaks. One man has a stream of water under him; another says it is coming into
his ear. The roof appears to be a discriminating sieve. Those who are dry see no need of such
a fuss. The man in the corner spreads his umbrella, and the protective measure is resented
by his neighbor. In the darkness there is recrimination. One of the guides, who is summoned,
suggests that the rubber blankets be passed out, and spread over the roof. The inmates dislike
the proposal, saying that a shower-bath is no worse than a tub-bath. The rain continues to
soak down. The fire is only half alive. The bedding is damp. Some sit up, if they can find
a dry spot to sit on, and smoke. Heartless observations are made. A few sleep. And the night
wears on. The morning opens cheerless. The sky is still leaking, and so is the shanty. The
guides bring in a half-cooked breakfast. The roof is patched up. There are reviving signs of
breaking away, delusive signs that create momentary exhilaration. Even if the storm clears,
the woods are soaked. There is no chance of stirring. The world is only ten feet square.

This life, without responsibility or clean clothes, may continue as long as the reader desires.
There are, those who would like to live in this free fashion forever, taking rain and sun as
heaven pleases; and there are some souls so constituted that they cannot exist more than three
days without their worldly--baggage. Taking the party altogether, from one cause or another
it is likely to strike camp sooner than was intended. And the stricken camp is a melancholy
sight. The woods have been despoiled; the stumps are ugly; the bushes are scorched; the pine-leaf-strewn
earth is trodden into mire; the landing looks like a cattle-ford; the ground is littered with
all the unsightly dibris of a hand-to-hand life; the dismantled shanty is a shabby object;
the charred and blackened logs, where the fire blazed, suggest the extinction of family life.
Man has wrought his usual wrong upon Nature, and he can save his self-respect only by moving
to virgin forests.

And move to them he will, the next season, if not this. For he who has once experienced the
fascination of the woods-life never escapes its enticement: in the memory nothing remains but
its charm.

VII. A WILDERNESS ROMANCE

At the south end of Keene Valley, in the Adirondacks, stands Noon Mark, a shapely peak thirty-five
hundred feet above the sea, which, with the aid of the sun, tells the Keene people when it
is time to eat dinner. From its summit you look south into a vast wilderness basin, a great
stretch of forest little trodden, and out of whose bosom you can hear from the heights on a
still day the loud murmur of the Boquet. This basin of unbroken green rises away to the south
and southeast into the rocky heights of Dix's Peak and Nipple Top,--the latter a local name
which neither the mountain nor the fastidious tourist is able to shake off. Indeed, so long
as the mountain keeps its present shape as seen from the southern lowlands, it cannot get on
without this name.

These two mountains, which belong to the great system of which Marcy is the giant centre, and
are in the neighborhood of five thousand feet high, on the southern outposts of the great mountains,
form the gate-posts of the pass into the south country. This opening between them is called
Hunter's Pass. It is the most elevated and one of the wildest of the mountain passes. Its summit
is thirty-five hundred feet high. In former years it is presumed the hunters occasionally followed
the game through; but latterly it is rare to find a guide who has been that way, and the tin-can
and paper-collar tourists have not yet made it a runway. This seclusion is due not to any inherent
difficulty of travel, but to the fact that it lies a little out of the way.

We went through it last summer; making our way into the jaws from the foot of the great slides
on Dix, keeping along the ragged spurs of the mountain through the virgin forest. The pass
is narrow, walled in on each side by precipices of granite, and blocked up with bowlders and
fallen trees, and beset with pitfalls in the roads ingeniously covered with fair-seeming moss.
When the climber occasionally loses sight of a leg in one of these treacherous holes, and feels
a cold sensation in his foot, he learns that he has dipped into the sources of the Boquet,
which emerges lower down into falls and rapids, and, recruited by creeping tributaries, goes
brawling through the forest basin, and at last comes out an amiable and boat-bearing stream
in the valley of Elizabeth Town. From the summit another rivulet trickles away to the south,
and finds its way through a frightful tamarack swamp, and through woods scarred by ruthless
lumbering, to Mud Pond, a quiet body of water, with a ghastly fringe of dead trees, upon which
people of grand intentions and weak vocabulary are trying to fix the name of Elk Lake. The
descent of the pass on that side is precipitous and exciting. The way is in the stream itself;
and a considerable portion of the distance we swung ourselves down the faces of considerable
falls, and tumbled down cascades. The descent, however, was made easy by the fact that it rained,
and every footstep was yielding and slippery. Why sane people, often church-members respectably
connected, will subject themselves to this sort of treatment,--be wet to the skin, bruised
by the rocks, and flung about among the bushes and dead wood until the most necessary part
of their apparel hangs in shreds,--is one of the delightful mysteries of these woods. I suspect
that every man is at heart a roving animal, and likes, at intervals, to revert to the condition
of the bear and the catamount.

There is no trail through Hunter's Pass, which, as I have intimated, is the least frequented
portion of this wilderness. Yet we were surprised to find a well-beaten path a considerable
portion of the way and wherever a path is possible. It was not a mere deer's runway: these
are found everywhere in the mountains. It is trodden by other and larger animals, and is, no
doubt, the highway of beasts. It bears marks of having been so for a long period, and probably
a period long ago. Large animals are not common in these woods now, and you seldom meet anything
fiercer than the timid deer and the gentle bear. But in days gone by, Hunter's Pass was the
highway of the whole caravan of animals who were continually going backward; and forwards,
in the aimless, roaming way that beasts have, between Mud Pond and the Boquet Basin. I think
I can see now the procession of them between the heights of Dix and Nipple Top; the elk and
the moose shambling along, cropping the twigs; the heavy bear lounging by with his exploring
nose; the frightened deer trembling at every twig that snapped beneath his little hoofs, intent
on the lily-pads of the pond; the raccoon and the hedgehog, sidling along; and the velvet-footed
panther, insouciant and conscienceless, scenting the path with a curious glow in his eye, or
crouching in an overhanging tree ready to drop into the procession at the right moment. Night
and day, year after year, I see them going by, watched by the red fox and the comfortably clad
sable, and grinned at by the black cat,--the innocent, the vicious, the timid and the savage,
the shy and the bold, the chattering slanderer and the screaming prowler, the industrious and
the peaceful, the tree-top critic and the crawling biter,--just as it is elsewhere. It makes
me blush for my species when I think of it. This charming society is nearly extinct now: of
the larger animals there only remain the bear, who minds his own business more thoroughly than
any person I know, and the deer, who would like to be friendly with men, but whose winning
face and gentle ways are no protection from the savageness of man, and who is treated with
the same unpitying destruction as the snarling catamount. I have read in history that the amiable
natives of Hispaniola fared no better at the hands of the brutal Spaniards than the fierce
and warlike Caribs. As society is at present constituted in Christian countries, I would rather
for my own security be a cougar than a fawn.

There is not much of romantic interest in the Adirondacks. Out of the books of daring travelers,
nothing. I do not know that the Keene Valley has any history. The mountains always stood here,
and the Au Sable, flowing now in shallows and now in rippling reaches over the sands and pebbles,
has for ages filled the air with continuous and soothing sounds. Before the Vermonters broke
into it some three-quarters of a century ago, and made meadows of its bottoms and sugar-camps
of its fringing woods, I suppose the red Indian lived here in his usual discomfort, and was
as restless as his successors, the summer boarders. But the streams were full of trout then,
and the moose and the elk left their broad tracks on the sands of the river. But of the Indian
there is no trace. There is a mound in the valley, much like a Tel in the country of Bashan
beyond the Jordan, that may have been built by some pre-historic race, and may contain treasure
and the seated figure of a preserved chieftain on his slow way to Paradise. What the gentle
and accomplished race of the Mound-Builders should want in this savage region where the frost
kills the early potatoes and stunts the scanty oats, I do not know. I have seen no trace of
them, except this Tel, and one other slight relic, which came to light last summer, and is
not enough to found the history of a race upon.

Some workingmen, getting stone from the hillside on one of the little plateaus, for a house-cellar,
discovered, partly embedded, a piece of pottery unique in this region. With the unerring instinct
of workmen in regard to antiquities, they thrust a crowbar through it, and broke the bowl into
several pieces. The joint fragments, however, give us the form of the dish. It is a bowl about
nine inches high and eight inches across, made of red clay, baked but not glazed. The bottom
is round, the top flares into four comers, and the rim is rudely but rather artistically ornamented
with criss-cross scratches made when the clay was soft. The vessel is made of clay not found
about here, and it is one that the Indians formerly living here could not form. Was it brought
here by roving Indians who may have made an expedition to the Ohio; was it passed from tribe
to tribe; or did it belong to a race that occupied the country before the Indian, and who have
left traces of their civilized skill in pottery scattered all over the continent?

If I could establish the fact that this jar was made by a prehistoric race, we should then
have four generations in this lovely valley:-the amiable Pre-Historic people (whose gentle
descendants were probably killed by the Spaniards in the West Indies); the Red Indians; the
Keene Flaters (from Vermont); and the Summer Boarders, to say nothing of the various races
of animals who have been unable to live here since the advent of the Summer Boarders, the valley
being not productive enough to sustain both. This last incursion has been more destructive
to the noble serenity of the forest than all the preceding.

But we are wandering from Hunter's Pass. The western walls of it are formed by the precipices
of Nipple Top, not so striking nor so bare as the great slides of Dix which glisten in the
sun like silver, but rough and repelling, and consequently alluring. I have a great desire
to scale them. I have always had an unreasonable wish to explore the rough summit of this crabbed
hill, which is too broken and jagged for pleasure and not high enough for glory. This desire
was stimulated by a legend related by our guide that night in the Mud Pond cabin. The guide
had never been through the pass before; although he was familiar with the region, and had ascended
Nipple Top in the winter in pursuit of the sable. The story he told doesn't amount to much,
none of the guides' stories do, faithfully reported, and I should not have believed it if I
had not had a good deal of leisure on my hands at the time, and been of a willing mind, and
I may say in rather of a starved condition as to any romance in this region.

The guide said then--and he mentioned it casually, in reply to our inquiries about ascending
the mountain--that there was a cave high up among the precipices on the southeast side of Nipple
Top. He scarcely volunteered the information, and with seeming reluctance gave us any particulars
about it. I always admire this art by which the accomplished story-teller lets his listener
drag the reluctant tale of the marvelous from him, and makes you in a manner responsible for
its improbability. If this is well managed, the listener is always eager to believe a great
deal more than the romancer seems willing to tell, and always resents the assumed reservations
and doubts of the latter.

There were strange reports about this cave when the old guide was a boy, and even then its
very existence had become legendary. Nobody knew exactly where it was, but there was no doubt
that it had been inhabited. Hunters in the forests south of Dix had seen a light late at night
twinkling through the trees high up the mountain, and now and then a ruddy glare as from the
flaring-up of a furnace. Settlers were few in the wilderness then, and all the inhabitants
were well known. If the cave was inhabited, it must be by strangers, and by men who had some
secret purpose in seeking this seclusion and eluding observation. If suspicious characters
were seen about Port Henry, or if any such landed from the steamers on the shore of Lake Champlain,
it was impossible to identify them with these invaders who were never seen. Their not being
seen did not, however, prevent the growth of the belief in their existence. Little indications
and rumors, each trivial in itself, became a mass of testimony that could not be disposed of
because of its very indefiniteness, but which appealed strongly to man's noblest faculty, his
imagination, or credulity.

The cave existed; and it was inhabited by men who came and went on mysterious errands, and
transacted their business by night. What this band of adventurers or desperadoes lived on,
how they conveyed their food through the trackless woods to their high eyrie, and what could
induce men to seek such a retreat, were questions discussed, but never settled. They might
be banditti; but there was nothing to plunder in these savage wilds, and, in fact, robberies
and raids either in the settlements of the hills or the distant lake shore were unknown. In
another age, these might have been hermits, holy men who had retired from the world to feed
the vanity of their godliness in a spot where they were subject neither to interruption nor
comparison; they would have had a shrine in the cave, and an image of the Blessed Virgin, with
a lamp always burning before it and sending out its mellow light over the savage waste. A more
probable notion was that they were romantic Frenchmen who had grow weary of vice and refinement
together,--possibly princes, expectants of the throne, Bourbon remainders, named Williams or
otherwise, unhatched eggs, so to speak, of kings, who had withdrawn out of observation to wait
for the next turn-over in Paris. Frenchmen do such things. If they were not Frenchmen, they
might be honest-thieves or criminals, escaped from justice or from the friendly state-prison
of New York. This last supposition was, however, more violent than the others, or seems so
to us in this day of grace. For what well-brought-up New York criminal would be so insane as
to run away from his political friends the keepers, from the easily had companionship of his
pals outside, and from the society of his criminal lawyer, and, in short, to put himself into
the depths of a wilderness out of which escape, when escape was desired, is a good deal more
difficult than it is out of the swarming jails of the Empire State? Besides, how foolish for
a man, if he were a really hardened and professional criminal, having established connections
and a regular business, to run away from the governor's pardon, which might have difficulty
in finding him in the craggy bosom of Nipple Top!

