While the north aisle is later than the south, the clearstory, as has been said is earlier,
being of late Decorated date with large three-light windows of reticulated tracery. The north
transept is more consistent in style than the south. The large four-light window is peculiar
in design. It has one transom and the tracery is brought down much below the spring of the
arch. The centre mullion is very solid, coming forward almost to the wall face both inside
and out and running up to the apex of the arch. The clearstory windows in both transepts are
similar in general design to those of the south clearstory of the nave but with variations
suggesting a rather later date. A very effective view of the north side can be had from the
quadrangle of Bond's Hospital, though here too it loses on account of the depressed site in
which it lies.

THE INTERIOR

The interior is not less impressive for its size than the exterior, Sir G.G. Scott even saying
that he knew of no interior more beautiful than St. John's.

All at least will agree that there is something about it striking and dignified which is obviously
not concerned with mere size, is largely independent of elaboration of detail and may therefore
be safely attributed to its satisfactory proportions and broad effects of light and shade.
Its plan is quite simple consisting of a nave and choir with north and south aisles, a transept
not projecting beyond the aisles at either end and a central tower. Yet, although it is more
or less oblong as a whole, there is hardly a right angle or two parallel walls throughout the
church. In most cases these discrepancies are not apparent, nor do they appear likely to have
been intended to produce a studied effect. Thus a diminution in width towards the east (as
at Manchester) may be expected to add to the apparent length, but here the south aisles of
both nave and chancel expand instead of contracting. By standing within either transept and
looking up at the roof the want of parallelism of the walls and other irregularities are plainly
seen. The nave has only three bays, the arches being rather lofty and the arch mouldings of
the characteristic shallowness of the period. The south-west pier had to be rebuilt on account
of settlement and there are signs of it in the south-east arch next the tower. The name Bablake
is said to have been derived from a pond or conduit near by and the site may have been swampy,
thus affecting the foundations. The district is even now liable to flooding from the Sherborne
(or Shireburn) stream and as late as January 1900 the waters rose over five feet within the
church as a brass plate at the west end testifies.

The graceful treatment of the windows of the nave and choir clearstories is shown in the illustration.
Comparing these with the clearstory of Trinity nave (p. 71) questions of priority arise. If
not designed by the same mind the influence of one on the other is easily seen. On the whole
the greater rigidity of treatment and the anxiety to increase the area of glass in the Trinity
windows suggest that the date is rather later and that the designs did not spring from the
same brain. The roof is very simple, the curved brackets springing from the shafts which run
down to the arches below. The wall is deeply recessed beneath the windows. The north windows,
however, are continued down in plain panels, but this only makes more apparent the fact that
they are not placed centrally over the arches.

The north aisle has a doorway and two north windows. The windows are of good Perpendicular
design, and the mullions are continued down the wall below, forming panels. The lowered sill
and recess probably formed a convenient retable to an altar against the wall. The west window
preserves some fragments of glass dated 1532. There is an obliterated inscription and small
etched figures--among them an acolyte carrying a cross, one of those whose services are mentioned
in the accounts after this wise: "to the crosebeirer and torchebeirer, for Seynt George day,
hollieroode day, shire thuresday and Whit Sunday, 12d.; to 2 childern for the same dayes 6d."

The south aisle of the nave, including the lower part of the transept, is doubtless the aisle
erected for the Gild by William Walsheman in 1357. The two windows are not central with the
nave arches, and the third is not in the centre of the transept. Their tracery is somewhat
peculiar in design and refined in detail, and has the transitional character one would expect
from its date. There are signs on the face of each western tower pier of the altars which once
stood there, probably those of the Trinity and St. Katharine, which are known to have existed.

The eastern piers of the tower are later than the western, and very unlike them in plan. A
bold and ingenious treatment of the vaulting shaft of the tower groining is used on these piers;
on the western ones the shafts stop upon the ends of the hood moulding.

The choir is now closed by a screen carrying a large rood carved in oak. Like St. Michael's,
but to a smaller extent, the axis of the choir inclines to the north. Whether symbolic, or
only a part of what may be described as the studied irregularity of the whole building it is
hard to say. The column on each side of the choir is later than the east respond and also later
than the west tower pier, but corresponds with the east tower pier. The deep panelling beneath
the windows must have been carried out when the clearstories were constructed in the fifteenth
century.

The south aisle of the choir, the original chapel of the patron saint, is now fitted up and
used as a morning chapel. The piscina still remains in the south wall, and there is a trace
of the old altar visible on the wall.

The east end of the north aisle is now the organ chamber, and was originally the Lady Chapel.
The base of the altar still exists, and so does the piscina in the south wall.

In connection with these or other altars we hear of a payment of 22d., in 1474, for painting
a cloth for the image of St. John Baptist, and in 1462 sums of 40s. and 7s. were paid to a
sculptor of Burton-on-Trent for an alabaster statue of the Virgin and a base for it.

At the foot of the south-west tower-pier are some decayed but interesting ancient tiles. The
new ones have been copied from them.

The vicissitudes in the church's fortunes have left little for us to see that is not part and
parcel of the structure.

That there were "orgaynes" as early as 1461 we know from entries in the city records giving
the cost at different times of wire, glue, nails, thread, etc., for the reparation of them,
while a payment of 2d. for "a string" suggests that they were a combination of wind and string
stops, similar to the 1733 organ of St. Michael's as built by Thomas Swarbrick. In 1519 the
Prior bought the "metell of ye old orgayns in bablake" for 9s. 10d., but doubtless the new
one disappeared in the troublous times that followed. A new one has recently been set up.

The pulpit is of stone and quite new, and the font, erected in 1843, is a copy of that of St.
Edward's, Cambridge.

There are five bells, the inscriptions on them being as follows:

  1st. Henrycus Bagley. M.C. Fecit 1676.
  2nd. Pack & Chapman. London 1778. Richard Eaton, Church-warden.
  3rd. Henric Dodenhale, Fecit. M.C.E.I.C.R.I.
  4th. (Illegible.) Probably of the end of fifteenth century.
  5th. I ring at six to let men know
       When to and from their work to go.

Neglect and decay it has been seen had provided only too plausible excuses for restoration.
In 1858 the church had a narrow escape from a worse fate, for it was proposed to extend it
in some direction, and the architect suggested the lengthening of the north transept and the
addition of a new north aisle. Probably lack of funds alone prevented the carrying out of a
proposal which would have completely spoilt the proportions of this beautiful interior.

THE GREY FRIARS' CONVENT

CHRIST CHURCH

The third of the "three tall spires," albeit nothing else remains of the church to which it
belonged, deserves that some notice should be given of it and of the men who reared it.

In 1234, eleven years after their first coming into England, the Franciscan Friars are heard
of at Coventry, Ranulph, Earl of Chester, having granted them land for their oratory, and the
Sheriff of Warwickshire, on behalf of the King, giving them shingles from the woods of Kenilworth
wherewith to cover it. In 1359 the Black Prince, then owner of the Manor and Park of Cheylesmore,
just outside the walls of the city and adjacent to their convent, granted them so much stone
from his quarry there, "as they should have occasion to use about their buildings and walls,"
and probably at this time the church, of which Christ Church spire is a remnant, was built.

At the same time he gave them "liberty to have a postern into the Park to carry out any of
their convent that should be diseased."

The house was surrendered to the King in 1539, the warden and ten brethren being compelled
to sign a humiliating document, in which they professed to "profoundly consider that the perfection
of Christian living doth not consist in dumb ceremonies, wearing of a grey coat, disguising
ourself after strange fashions, ducking, nodding and becking, in girding our selves with a
girdle full of knots and other like Papisticall ceremonies."

It is certain at least that they had no accumulated wealth. Whatever they had received had
been distributed for the advantage of the Church or the poor. At their suppression they had
neither lands, tenements, nor other possessions, save their church and house and the land these
stood on. The site was granted to the city and the buildings thrown down, only the spire with
its supporting walls and arches being allowed to stand until 1829, when it was incorporated
with the new nave of Christ Church from the designs of Rickman, to whom we are indebted for
the first comprehensive and systematic account of English Mediæval architecture. The work shows
how imperfectly in those days even a genuine admirer of Mediæval Art understood its spirit.
Unfortunately the tower and spire were recased with new stone, and the original character of
the work largely disappeared. The total height is 204 feet, exclusive of the vane. The plan
of the old church was interesting, especially in the arrangement of the crossing. The short
transepts had little real relation to choir or nave, which were almost completely separated
from one another, the nave being intended for the use of the public.

The narrowing of the tower from east to west, and the insertion of secondary north and south
arches to carry the slender octagonal tower is unusual and ingenious. The whole length was
250 feet, and the transepts were 96 feet from north to south. The nave and choir differed little
in length.

The connection of the Franciscans with the production of the Mysteries, or sacred plays, should
not pass unnoticed. Dugdale, who had spoken with eye witnesses, thus alludes to the subject:

   Before the suppression of the Monasteries this City was very
   famous for the Pageants that were played therein upon Corpus
   Christi-day; which occasioning very great confluence of people
   thither from far and near, was of no small benefit thereto; which
   Pageants being acted with mighty State and Reverence by the
   Friars of this House, had Theatres for the several scenes, very
   large and high, placed upon wheels and drawn to all the eminent
   parts of the City for the better advantage of spectators; and
   contained the story of the Old and New Testament, composed in the
   old English Rithme, as appeareth by an ancient MS. intituled,
   Ludus Corporis Christi, or Ludus Coventriæ.

Along with a number that were performed by the city companies they are still to be seen in
the British Museum. We know that the Friars presented them as late as 1492, when Henry VII
was present with his Queen to see the plays "acted by the Grey Friars."

No remains exist of the domestic buildings of the Friary. The well-known Ford's Hospital hard
by is often called Grey Friars' Hospital, but this arises merely from the situation. It was
founded in 1529 by Mr. William Ford of Coventry, Merchant of the Staple, for five men and one
woman, but is now inhabited by women only. It is an exceptionally beautiful example of Tudor
timber construction in perfect condition.

THE WHITE FRIARS

The Carmelite or White Friars were, says Dugdale, fixed in Coventry in 1343 by Sir John Poultney
who had been four times Lord Mayor of London. Although their buildings were ornate and extensive,
their revenue apart from oblations amounted to only £3 6s. 8d. per annum and the whole came
to less than £8. At the Dissolution the house and its revenues came eventually to John Hales,
Clerk of the Hanaper to Henry VIII. Having amassed a great estate in monastery and chantry
lands, Hales founded the Free School in Coventry, the Church of the White Friars being at first
used for the purpose. Later, he made of the Friary a dwelling and removed the school to St.
John's Hospital, granted to him by the king in 1545. Part of the church of the Hospital still
exists at the foot of Bishop Street, but the school has been removed to new buildings in the
Warwick Road.

Of the buildings of the White Friars there are considerable remains incorporated with the Union
Workhouse at the top of Much Park Street. The east walk of the cloister, 150 feet in length,
has a fine groined roof of the fifteenth century. A range of vaulted apartments runs alongside
the cloister on the east side, divided midway by the vestibule to the Chapter House now destroyed.
The upper story above the cloister and the range of rooms was, we may assume, the friars' Dormitory.
A huge fireplace and a bay window are part of John Hales' reconstruction. The gateway to the
south-west corner of the cloister remains, and the outer gate of the precincts may still be
seen in Much Park Street.

ST. MARY HALL

The Gilds were so important a part of the religious and social life of the city that it is
imperative that some notice of their hall, which stands in suggestive proximity to the churches,
should be given. St. Mary Hall, opposite the south side of St. Michael's is one of the most
complete and beautiful examples of a fifteenth-century town dwelling now remaining in England.
It originally belonged to the Gilds of Holy Trinity and Our Lady to which were united at a
later time those of St. Katharine and St. John Baptist, the oldest to be founded. By the fine
groined gateway we enter the courtyard, on the south side of which is the kitchen, probably
the hall of an older structure of the first half of the fourteenth century, the present hall
and its undercroft on the west side having been built between 1394 and 1414. On the east side
is the entrance to the staircase leading to a gallery from which the hall is entered. At this
end is the Minstrels' Gallery and beneath it are three doorways, the centre one leading to
the kitchens below, that on the right to the old Council Chamber, that on the left to a smaller
room known as the Princes' Chamber. From the Council Chamber is reached the stone-groined Treasury,
now used for the safe keeping of muniments and records. It forms the first floor of a low tower.

The hall, 70 feet by 30 feet, is of five bays, with the usual dais and oriel window at the
far end from the entrance.

