II. CAESAR'S EARLY YEARS.
 III. ADVANCEMENT TO THE CONSULSHIP.
  IV. THE CONQUEST OF GAUL.
   V. POMPEY.
  VI. CROSSING THE RUBICON.
 VII. THE BATTLE OF PHARSALIA.
VIII. FLIGHT AND DEATH OF POMPEY.
  IX. CAESAR IN EGYPT.
   X. CAESAR IMPERATOR.
  XI. THE CONSPIRACY.
 XII. Also most likely belongs here the iron
rock on the right bank of the Senegal, the mass of the Negroes of their tools Forge by this rock
seems to be quite isolated in that place [A].

  
  [Note A: This is always cited in the geographies of iron Senegambia
seems to be this one.]

Besides these solid masses, which have come
down to us are those in dust and Rain, as I have already stated fallen
to us.

Among the most remarkable dust rain this kind is, first, the one who on 14 March 1813 has fallen
in Calabria, where a lot of red dust, Coming from the sea, in the rain, lightning, thunder
and a special Noise, and sometimes mixed with stones, fell to the ground, the air hours darkened,
and the whole country with fear and terror has been filled. And at the same Time should be a red snow
fell in Friuli. Second, here is the strong dust rain what has happened at the end of September
in 1815 on the East Indian seas, where the same thing on the second day, with a width of 50 German
miles, with a high red Dust was covered [A].

[Note A: More on this can be found in the lists of fallen coal and iron masses of Chladni, and
in the continued directories of these masses in the 22 and 23 Band
Gilbert's Annalen, and in the first magazine of the year 1818th]

All
of these masses, which on the day the heavens as a colorful, oddly
shaped Clouds, and at night in the form of burning, with glowing vapors
surrounded and have shown with a tail marked balls, and all in respect
of their constituents are all the same properties, can now be no Erdprodukte.

  For it should be, it would have been ejected from fire-breathing mountains
  and tossed around by them be, and they would then meet in the
  area of ​​these mountains most often where you but almost no place.
  And they were from Bergen, on the north and south poles, of which
  but we know nothing, should be present, be ejected, they would always
be from one and the same area, and do not come from all parts of the
world to us.

Furthermore, not even the mountains wealthy, such masses 100-100000 pounds to a height of to
hurl 60-100 miles and throw them a force with which they conducted across national have been
to communicate. Even the mighty flash of lightning can not those of the masses to tear crags, and
hurl them into such a level and, therefore, these meteoric masses not be Erdprodukte. 2) Can
these masses, as some have thought, not even from the moon have come to us, and come from the same
to us because + a) + their number, which Chladni 300 indicates, much too large, and + b) +
because the running of both the world body, the earth and the Moon, their arrival from the moon
could admit of her only in an elliptical orbit, so therefore could only rarely fall such meteoric
masses to us. The great geometer La Place, the mechanics of the world, the building was discovered
and revealed to us by the sight of the many craters on the moon, the most violent of the revolutions
which have the same have been sworn witness, brought on the idea that the meteor masses of WOL
Moons could be hergeschleudert to us. But when he began to charge, and found that such a mass
in a second had to do 7773 feet [A] from the domain of attraction to reach the moon in the earth, he
gave up his opinion. + + Dr. Olbers was also initially also give the same view when the moon is
at its perigee of 48.000 miles, would find himself, and the two heavenly bodies, earth and moon are
in a retirement security. But since this is not the case, we must each body on the moon, the
movement of the speed and direction be communicated as it is the same. This would make the stone
in the barrel of a parabolic Arc be moved, but not come to Earth. And 3) can not these masses
in the Atmosphere are produced, because + a) +, this is only 9 to 10 miles high, and those
masses in a height of 60 to 100 miles to prove how the calculations made above [B] sees have
been. + B) + Is the atmosphere at an altitude of 20 miles so thin that a cubic mile Air does
not weigh more than a pound. What is now conceivable that at this level and even less in the
60-100 miles, iron masses 1000-100000 pounds can make? For where the substance is to exist at this
level? And + c) + result, these meteoric masses got the momentum, by which they all countries with
a rate which some of the world exceeded, has been out there, and with which they have in a parabolic
arc given smoothly to the earth leaving, if they Both had not received at its birth in space,
not even by the air a water drop that falls immediately after its formation to the Earth, can
continue.

[Note A: A speed which 7 times that of sound, the makes in one second, 1040 feet, surpassing.]

[Note
B: The fireball or meteor mass, which in 1783 10, August, Britain and France, & c. ran away, is in
Hamburg have been seen. Since Hamburg from London 90 miles is produced, it should matter, if
it at an angle of 50 ° from Hamburg has been seen over 107 miles hovered high have. Is seen at an
angle of 40 °, so its level 75, is seen 30 degrees high, so is its height of 50 miles, and it
is 10 ° was seen high, so was her height of 15 miles.]

It follows from all this, then, that the meteor mass products of the great outer space or small
world masses.

Now if such associations of foreign bodies with the masses of our
residence in recent Times have happened, then it is probably not very
likely that in still earlier times, particularly to the, where was
the amount of the small world masses far greater than now, and many
of them, if not all, in a still unangeordneten rushed over there,
far more such Collapse had to be made - and that even masses of considerable
size to our Location must be overthrown, which not only shattered
his internal structure and destroyed, but have sat down and rock masses,
as mountains, have on him?

  
  

  Perhaps in this way a maximum of America, which is far higher than the
  other Erdtheile above sea level is raised, has been placed, to
  which only a world body such as Vesta [A] large, was one of the water
  there, then pushed away and on to large seamounts the sides of
  the earth's surface has accumulated, and thus perhaps the Zend
  or Noah tables or another tide of gray antiquity has been produced.

[Note
  A: This is 14.800 times smaller than our place of residence.]
  

But the fact that our City such collapse of major world really suffered several masses I shows
clearly not alone, is as stated already, its internal construction,
but also the large amount of organic beings which lie buried deep
under the rock masses and her grave not by floods, but only by violent
spills and co-precipitations have found masses of rock on rock masses,
where they can lie, [A].

For if the entire amount of the remains of animals by floods would have been out here, would
If the same bone is not so well preserved but destroyed by water and stone masses shown remodeled,
as you encounter many of the shells, or in Firefox, and also not far beneath rocks where waves
are never penetrated encounter, and have encountered. And even the great naturalist Cuvier, which
now has 78 species of mammals and laying of the eggs Animals from the womb of the earth, among
which 49 completely in the now living creation unknown Species are found out, has claimed that
the large land animals, where they in the earth be found lying, have
also lived.

From this erhellet therefore, that a great part of those animals, if not all, by a Aufsturz
a foreign celestial body [B] on our Earth had been buried.

[Note A: The animals that most likely there, where their Remains are found, have a least one lived,
especially the elephant, of which one in almost every country of
Europe Remains have been excavated and still digging.

  Sun undermines one example Baumann in the field and the caves sometimes
joke a lot Teeth that have often their natural shine and in the Jaws
are tight.

This means you can at Erfurt in Thuringia in 1698 excavated to a depth of 24 feet of a skeleton,
which is still the skull with 4 molars, 2 canines, Shoulder bones, vertebrae, some ribs, and
various Neck bone had. Just as one has not far from Langensalza Thuringia's ton in 1695 in such
a frame with two eight Foot long canine teeth or fangs found. And between Brussels and Rupelle are 2 skeletons
with jaws and fangs - even in Transylvania and Hungary, the Danube and the Rhine and in almost
all Countries of Europe are sowol bone as teeth of this animal been excavated. Yes, it even has
such a pebble in transformed molar tooth found in Iceland. More frequently, however, there are
like teeth in Siberia on the rivers Obi, Jenesei, Lena, etc where a length of 9 ½ feet, 6 inches
in Diameter and 400 pounds are hard to find. Also in other Oerter Asia, Africa and America,
and indeed to those of which we know that there have never gehauset elephants, has we found the remains
of it. More about this can be found in my "General view of the surfaces of the body of our world
Sun area. Page 10, 11, etc] "

[Note B: from the village in which Thiede, near Braunschweig, discovered bones of mammoth, rhinoceros,
deer dam & c. seem they lived and brought about by those flowing
into a flood its angle rounded up to what they find protection believed
to find it in the precipitate of Wasserfluth been buried.]

But how
terrible, how horrible must full of such great and mighty Natural
scenes that undermine not only the interior of the earth, here and
then smash the rock masses and lay waste the plains, but the living
creation in a moment and transform it into a nothing!

  For even when a world body of such size as our Moon, the sea water
  below the line to a height of 2 to 3 feet, in a Width of 30 to 50 degrees
  [A] but at a height of 20 to 48, sometimes even at 80 feet,
  as it is on the island of St. Malo is the case, collects, to approach
  our homes, and closer than that to us, would come, would not only
  enter the sea from its shores, and the level of Human hands recently
  worked, laughing corridors of natural beauty flood, but when he
  would always get closer, the water more and more water to pile up
  mountains here and there, his land completely abandoned, and
  finally over with all its inhabitants Rock masses hinüberfluthen
  [B] and the beautiful verdant nature in a Chaos dead and the living
  creation in a void transform. And when at last fall that world mass
  on our world body would, it alone would not be forced away the water
  under it and to the sides with authority over mountains and valleys,
  on plains and forests to flow be forced, so what was younger country
  to the sea, and what was sea recently, remodeled to the mainland
  would be, but it would also be the center of the earth, with
  her Priorities, and the same revolution on its axis, so much in
  Respect to their speed, as well as their direction changed after
  be, so what was recently on its north and south poles, perhaps would
  be made to the equator. - Also, would the same in the form and location
  of their car, and in their distances from the solar body, and to
  suffer in their orbit around them a great change have. Such great
  and powerful changes to our wish, therefore, WOL Body of the earth
  collect when defeating a world body of importance to him would.
  - And that the same have such large changes over a Times suffered
lights from the already above mentioned, earlier, as well resulting
in that the inhabitants of the deep sea to the peaks of the most rock
masses [C], whereas it is merely a powerful shudder full tide may
have led, found buried horizontally. - But also from the that in our
regions and in which, having the same in equal distances from the
equator lie the remains of animals which live only in hot climates
may, in quantities below the Earth's mass has found buried, which
assumes, therefore, that this areas have been least one must warm.

  And just as one finds in our regions under the earth signs of marine
  life, and above Remains of land animals lying that sufficient evidence
  of several revolutions, the least one of our areas have suffered,
  darreicht. Now the question is, will our world bodies such Revolution
  once again have to fear? And if it makes such to to fear, when
  will then enter the same?

[Note A: In the line or the equator, the Attraction of the sun on the
sea to La Lande's calculation, 23 inches and that of the moon 3 × 23 =
69 inches, thus both Heavenly bodies at the same time to 8 feet. However,
since the resistance of the ground of the sea prevented the collection
at this level, it can collect only at the equator 2 to 3 feet high. But
 beyond the Equator, it rises more important, so that its height at the
Canary Islands, under which about 30 Degrees north latitude 7-8 Foot is,
on the shores of Marocko and those from Spain approximately at the 37th
Degrees north latitude to 10 feet, on the coasts of Portugal and Spain
on the 43rd to about Degrees north latitude to 12 Walk, from Cape Finis
+ terrae + to the mouth of the Garonne, So until the 46th Degrees latitude
north 15 feet & c. rises. On this does this amount to the 48th
Degrees north Wide again, and the Floods up to the North Pole to ever
lower, where they finally stop altogether.]

[Note B: When leaving the moon's location and the could fall off the earth,
he would, if it 7740 miles from us away, would raise the sea 256 feet
to ascend, and when he 1016 miles we had come near, he would walk the
same 15.000 to rise up, and therefore such a force, over the almost
hinüberzufluthen highest mountains.]

[Note C: Delüc added to the Savoy Alps, at an altitude of 7844 feet above
the sea level raised, ammonites encountered.

Impressed with this idea, he stared wildly around; he called aloud the name of Mithridates;
he shouted orders to imaginary troops; he struggled to break away from the restraints which
the attendants about his bedside imposed, to attack the phantom foes which haunted him in his
dreams. This continued for several days, and when at last nature was exhausted by the violence
of these paroxysms of phrensy, the vital powers which had been for seventy long years spending
their strength in deeds of selfishness, cruelty, and hatred, found their work done, and sunk
to revive no more.

[Sidenote: Return of Sylla.] [Sidenote: Marius's son.] [Sidenote: Proscriptions and massacres
of Sylla.]

Marius left a son, of the same name with himself, who attempted to retain his father's power;
but Sylla, having brought his war with Mithridates to a conclusion, was now on his return from
Asia, and it was very evident that a terrible conflict was about to ensue. Sylla advanced triumphantly
through the country, while Marius the younger and his partisans concentrated their forces about
the city, and prepared for defense. The people of the city were divided, the aristocratic faction
adhering to the cause of Sylla, while the democratic influences sided with Marius. Political
parties rise and fall, in almost all ages of the world, in alternate fluctuations, like those
of the tides. The faction of Marius had been for some time in the ascendency, and it was now
its turn to fall. Sylla found, therefore, as he advanced, every thing favorable to the restoration
of his own party to power. He destroyed the armies which came out to oppose him. He shut up
the young Marius in a city not far from Rome, where he had endeavored to find shelter and protection,
and then advanced himself and took possession of the city. There he caused to be enacted again
the horrid scenes of massacre and murder which Marius had perpetrated before, going, however,
as much beyond the example which he followed as men usually do in the commission of crime.
He gave out lists of the names of men whom he wished to have destroyed, and these unhappy victims
of his revenge were to be hunted out by bands of reckless soldiers, in their dwellings, or
in the places of public resort in the city, and dispatched by the sword wherever they could
be found. The scenes which these deeds created in a vast and populous city can scarcely be
conceived of by those who have never witnessed the horrors produced by the massacres of civil
war. Sylla himself went through with this work in the most cool and unconcerned manner, as
if he were performing the most ordinary duties of an officer of state. He called the Senate
together one day, and, while he was addressing them, the attention of the Assembly was suddenly
distracted by the noise of outcries and screams in the neighboring streets from those who were
suffering military execution there. The senators started with horror at the sound. Sylla, with
an air of great composure and unconcern, directed the members to listen to him, and to pay
no attention to what was passing elsewhere. The sounds that they heard were, he said, only
some correction which was bestowed by his orders on certain disturbers of the public peace.

[Sidenote: Executions.] [Sidenote: Extent of Sylla's proscriptions.] [Sidenote: Man's nature.]

Sylla's orders for the execution of those who had taken an active part against him were not
confined to Rome. They went to the neighboring cities and to distant provinces, carrying terror
and distress every where. Still, dreadful as these evils were, it is possible for us, in the
conceptions which we form, to overrate the extent of them. In reading the history of the Roman
empire during the civil wars of Marius and Sylla, one might easily imagine that the whole population
of the country was organized into the two contending armies, and were employed wholly in the
work of fighting with and massacring each other. But nothing like this can be true. It is obviously
but a small part, after all, of an extended community that can be ever actively and personally
engaged in these deeds of violence and blood. Man is not naturally a ferocious wild beast.
On the contrary, he loves, ordinarily, to live in peace and quietness, to till his lands and
tend his flocks, and to enjoy the blessings of peace and repose. It is comparatively but a
small number in any age of the world, and in any nation, whose passions of ambition, hatred,
or revenge become so strong as that they love bloodshed and war. But these few, when they once
get weapons into their hands, trample recklessly and mercilessly upon the rest. One ferocious
human tiger, with a spear or a bayonet to brandish, will tyrannize as he pleases over a hundred
quiet men, who are armed only with shepherds' crooks, and whose only desire is to live in peace
with their wives and their children.

[Sidenote: Husbandmen.] [Sidenote: How the Roman edifices were built.] [Sidenote: Standing armies.]

Thus, while Marius and Sylla, with some hundred thousand armed and reckless followers, were
carrying terror and dismay wherever they went, there were many millions of herdsmen and husbandmen
in the Roman world who were dwelling in all the peace and quietness they could command, improving
with their peaceful industry every acre where corn would ripen or grass grow. It was by taxing
and plundering the proceeds of this industry that the generals and soldiers, the consuls and
praetors, and proconsuls and propraetors, filled their treasuries, and fed their troops, and
paid the artisans for fabricating their arms. With these avails they built the magnificent
edifices of Rome, and adorned its environs with sumptuous villas. As they had the power and
the arms in their hands, the peaceful and the industrious had no alternative but to submit.
They went on as well as they could with their labors, bearing patiently every interruption,
returning again to till their fields after the desolating march of the army had passed away,
and repairing the injuries of violence, and the losses sustained by plunder, without useless
repining. They looked upon an armed government as a necessary and inevitable affliction of
humanity, and submitted to its destructive violence as they would submit to an earthquake or
a pestilence. The tillers of the soil manage better in this country at the present day. They
have the power in their own hands, and they watch very narrowly to prevent the organization
of such hordes of armed desperadoes as have held the peaceful inhabitants of Europe in terror
from the earliest periods down to the present day.

[Sidenote: Julius Caesar.] [Sidenote: Sylla's animosity against him.] [Sidenote: Caesar refuses
to repudiate his wife.] [Sidenote: His flight.]

When Sylla returned to Rome, and took possession of the supreme power there, in looking over
the lists of public men, there was one whom he did not know, at first what to do with. It was
the young Julius Caesar, the subject of this history. Caesar was, by birth, patrician, having
descended from a long line of noble ancestors. There had been, before his day, a great many
Caesars who had held the highest offices of the state, and many of them had been celebrated
in history. He naturally, therefore, belonged to Sylla's side, as Sylla was the representative
of the patrician interest. But then Caesar had personally been inclined toward the party of
Marius. The elder Marius had married his aunt, and, besides, Caesar himself had married the
daughter of Cinna, who had been the most efficient and powerful of Marius's coadjutors and
friends. Caesar was at this time a very young man, and he was of an ardent and reckless character,
though he had, thus far, taken no active part in public affairs. Sylla overlooked him for a
time, but at length was about to put his name on the list of the proscribed. Some of the nobles,
who were friends both of Sylla and of Caesar too, interceded for the young man; Sylla yielded
to their request, or, rather, suspended his decision, and sent orders to Caesar to repudiate
his wife, the daughter of Cinna. Her name was Cornelia. Caesar absolutely refused to repudiate
his wife. He was influenced in this decision partly by affection for Cornelia, and partly by
a sort of stern and indomitable insubmissiveness, which formed, from his earliest years, a
prominent trait in his character, and which led him, during all his life, to brave every possible
danger rather than allow himself to be controlled. Caesar knew very well that, when this his
refusal should be reported to Sylla, the next order would be for his destruction. He accordingly
fled. Sylla deprived him of his titles and offices, confiscated his wife's fortune and his
own patrimonial estate, and put his name upon the list of the public enemies. Thus Caesar became
a fugitive and an exile. The adventures which befell him in his wanderings will be described
in the following chapter.

[Sidenote: Sylla made dictator.] [Sidenote: He resigns his power.]

Sylla was now in the possession of absolute power. He was master of Rome, and of all the countries
over which Rome held sway. Still he was nominally not a magistrate, but only a general returning
victoriously from his Asiatic campaign, and putting to death, somewhat irregularly, it is true,
by a sort of martial law persons whom he found, as he said, disturbing the public peace. After
having thus effectually disposed of the power of his enemies, he laid aside, ostensibly, the
government of the sword, and submitted himself and his future measures to the control of law.
He placed himself ostensibly at the disposition of the city. They chose him dictator, which
was investing him with absolute and unlimited power. He remained on this, the highest pinnacle
of worldly ambition, a short time, and then resigned his power, and devoted the remainder of
his days to literary pursuits and pleasures. Monster as he was in the cruelties which he inflicted
upon his political foes, he was intellectually of a refined and cultivated mind, and felt an
ardent interest in the promotion of literature and the arts.

[Sidenote: Opinion of mankind in regard to Marius and Sylla.]

The quarrel between Marius and Sylla, in respect to every thing which can make such a contest
great, stands in the estimation of mankind as the greatest personal quarrel which the history
of the world has ever recorded. Its origin was in the simple personal rivalry of two ambitious
men. It involved, in its consequences, the peace and happiness of the world. In their reckless
struggles, the fierce combatants trampled on every thing that came in their way, and destroyed
mercilessly, each in his turn, all that opposed them. And at first, because there are traces of him again, by his brother , Attacked
the other has not ever harmed than he. Are you not also ? Think "

"Because what could be tuned," the colonel replied thoughtfully. "Because I have something
right now . Do "On the fourth day he came home at night and his wife still in Pussy Bed sat, he
had them call quickly, because he had to tell her something important.

They sat down together then, and the colonel told his wife what he was in the city had heard.
In his comments towards the police had secretly sought after Joerg, and He had been found without
much effort. For he was sure that no one saw him had when he was
only at night came to his village and immediately disappeared.

He had initially gone down only to the city and had hung around in
the Wirtshaeusern.

When he was arrested and interrogated, he denied everything at first. The fact that a single word,
he had called a small child, had betrayed him can, like he had no idea.

He then began to curse the terrible colonel, and said he had always thought this Aristocrats breeding
him would bring misfortune upon. In further questioning he confessed to, want to go to his brother
and he had to borrow money from him. When he lit up by the Window, saw what he had to lie flat
against a good sum, since it occurred to him, Andres the knock and
take the money. He did not want to kill him, only a little put out,
so he did not know him. The largest part of the total was still in
he found. This was taken from him, and Joerg was sent to prison. He had penetration enough to perceive, beneath all the
gayety and love of pleasure which characterized Caesar's youthful life, the germs of a sterner
and more aspiring spirit, which, he was very sorry to see, was likely to expend its future
energies in hostility to him. By refusing to submit to Sylla's commands, Caesar had, in effect,
thrown himself entirely upon the other party, and would be, of course, in future identified
with them. Sylla consequently looked upon him now as a confirmed and settled enemy. Some friends
of Caesar among the patrician families interceded in his behalf with Sylla again, after he
had fled from Rome. They wished Sylla to pardon him, saying that he was a mere boy and could
do him no harm. Sylla shook his head, saying that, young as he was, he saw in him indications
of a future power which he thought was more to be dreaded than that of many Mariuses.

[Sidenote: Caesar's studies.] [Sidenote: His ambition to be an orator.]

One reason which led Sylla to form this opinion of Caesar was, that the young nobleman, with
all his love of gayety and pleasure, had not neglected his studies, but had taken great pains
to perfect himself in such intellectual pursuits as ambitious men who looked forward to political
influence and ascendency were accustomed to prosecute in those days He had studied the Greek
language, and read the works of Greek historians; and he attended lectures on philosophy and
rhetoric, and was obviously interested deeply in acquiring power as a public speaker. To write
and speak well gave a public man great influence in those days. Many of the measures of the
government were determined by the action of great assemblies of the free citizens, which action
was itself, in a great measure, controlled by the harangues of orators who had such powers
of voice and such qualities of mind as enabled them to gain the attention and sway the opinions
of large bodies of men.

[Sidenote: The Forum.] [Sidenote: Its porticoes and statues.] [Sidenote: Attractions of the Forum.]

It most not be supposed, however, that this popular power was shared by all the inhabitants
of the city. At one time, when the population of the city was about three millions the number
of free citizens was only three hundred thousand. The rest were laborers, artisans, and slaves,
who had no voice in public affairs. The free citizens held very frequent public assemblies.
There were various squares and open spaces in the city where such assemblies were convened,
and where courts of justice were held. The Roman name for such a square was forum. There was
one which was distinguished above all the rest, and was called emphatically The Forum. It was
a magnificent square, surrounded by splendid edifices, and ornamented by sculptures and statues
without number. There were ranges of porticoes along the sides, where the people were sheltered
from the weather when necessary, though it is seldom that there is any necessity for shelter
under an Italian sky. In this area and under these porticoes the people held their assemblies,
and here courts of justice were accustomed to sit. The Forum was ornamented continually with
new monuments, temples, statues, and columns by successful generals returning in triumph from
foreign campaigns, and by proconsuls and praetors coming back enriched from their provinces,
until it was fairly choked up with its architectural magnificence, and it had at last to be
partially cleared again, as one would thin out too dense a forest, in order to make room for
the assemblies which it was its main function to contain.

[Sidenote: Harangues and political discussions.]

The people of Rome had, of course, no printed books, and yet they were mentally cultivated
and refined, and were qualified for a very high appreciation of intellectual pursuits and pleasures.
In the absence, therefore, of all facilities for private reading, the Forum became the great
central point of attraction. The same kind of interest which, in our day, finds its gratification
in reading volumes of printed history quietly at home, or in silently perusing the columns
of newspapers and magazines in libraries and reading-rooms, where a whisper is seldom heard,
in Caesar's day brought every body to the Forum, to listen to historical harangues, or political
discussions, or forensic arguments in the midst of noisy crowds. Here all tidings centered;
here all questions were discussed and all great elections held. Here were waged those ceaseless
conflicts of ambition and struggles of power on which the fate of nations, and sometimes the
welfare of almost half mankind depended. Of course, every ambitious man who aspired to an ascendency
over his fellow-men, wished to make his voice heard in the Forum. To calm the boisterous tumult
there, and to hold, as some of the Roman orators could do, the vast assemblies in silent and
breathless attention, was a power as delightful in its exercise as it was glorious in its fame.
Caesar had felt this ambition, and had devoted himself very earnestly to the study of oratory.

[Sidenote: Apollonius.] [Sidenote: Caesar studies under him.]

His teacher was Apollonius, a philosopher and rhetorician from Rhodes. Rhodes is a Grecian
island, near the southwestern coast of Asia Minor Apollonius was a teacher of great celebrity,
and Caesar became a very able writer and speaker under his instructions. His time and attention
were, in fact, strangely divided between the highest and noblest intellectual avocations, and
the lowest sensual pleasures of a gay and dissipated life. To do nothing more provisionally. "

Caspar's face, mutely excited as that of a feverish, was rigid.

"You shudder, yes," continued the president, "and I shudder, and yet it must be content have. Our
arms are not all distances and altitudes reached. We do not have Joshua's battle trumpets and
Oberon's horn. The highly powerful giants are armed with flails and thresh Sun thick as hail,
that the impactor and impact force can not be swallowed bent beam.

Patience, Hauser, and not say a word, do not say a word. promise
to be nothing, a hope still remains, but do I need health.

Enough for now! "

He made a farewell gesture.

Caspar saw the old man for the first time to clear and calm. The fixed gaze wondered the president.
Egg of thousands, he thought the boy has blood in them and no sugar water. Already in the departure
understood to Caspar turned around and said.

"Excellency, I would have a big request"

"A request? Out with it! "

"It's so annoying to me that I should wait for any more going out to the disabled. He comes often
so late that it is not longer about going worthwhile. Appeal to the court I can not alone and go to
my friend too. "

"Well," Feuerbach made, "wants to think it over,'ll arrange it."

When Caspar left the room, a female form glided along the corridor like this one Lauscherin
was caught immediately. It was Henry who, in constant fear for the father not so much feared as the danger
from his passionate interest in the fate Caspar threatened. Although there may witness a letter
which they in their living in the Palatinate Brother Anselm wrote the ominous and the heavy
air in the congested environment of the President, feel with every line was.

"The state of our father," so the letter began, "has, thank God, for the better approached.
He can already, leaning on a cane to walk across the room and has again Enjoy a good roast,
although his appetite is no longer the past and he even and again complained of stomach pain.
But his mood in general is concerned, it is worse than ever, and that this depends mainly with
the unfortunate Caspar Hauser Font together. You know what a huge stir in the brochure has
caused throughout the country. Thousands of voices have raised for it and against it, but
it seems that the objection gradually to keep the upper hand. The most widely read newspapers
carried articles today were strikingly similar, and in which the work as a product of an exaggerated
head scornfully was dismissed. After two editions were sold in rapid succession, the publisher refused
suddenly all sorts of excuses the pressure, and when they turned to two others, were also cancellations.
That most treacherous machinations behind it, one and all from a and the same source, one can not
conceal from himself, and I want to bite my lips sore, when I think, in what conditions we
are forced to live, that even a man as our father for one thing, the way it is, cries out to
heaven, not a willing ear refers, not to mention very active assistance. Indeed, people are lazy,
dull, dumb animals, otherwise everything would be outrage in the world. Now you like you but
only our father retained his bitter resentment, his pain, his contempt, and all that: imagine
locked in his chest. What he had to feel, as even from the next circle of friends no sign of
approval, gratitude, love flew more to it! Some highly placed people did not return with their anger,
and here, in the hideous backwater, had been anyway made little fuss about the whole story, understandably,
for Christ may conquer Rome, to Jerusalem, he is only a shabby Rabbi. I am very concerned for
our Father. I know him enough to know that his current external tranquility only the inner
Forward hides. Sometimes he sits for hours staring at a single location on the wall, and if you
bother him then, he looks at you with big eyes and laughed silently and hurt. The other day
he said suddenly, frowning, and to me, was the right thing, if for such Cause out as in earlier
times the whole man imagine, with skin and hair must be sacrifice themselves and should not hide
behind a wall printed paper. He rolls Plans in his mind, the news that has broken out in the
Baden revolution has attacked him powerfully, and in fact it seems that this catastrophe with
the Caspar Hauser thing to stand in intimate connection. He believes in an adopted and somewhere
on the Main one of the main instigators of the Minister of living suspect in the atrocities
committed to boulder allowed, and - I hardly does the record in the spring! - He has the intention
to seek the man, to force him to confess. The police lieutenant Hickel, the sinister fellow, the
I do not trust the way, now comes almost every day into the house and took a long conferences
with Father, and as much as I have now taken up the suggestion of the father, it is Hickel support
in a few weeks on the trip. 'Could I but that to prevent just that! He is to abandon this unhappy
history's sake the last peace of his age and he is do nothing, nothing, nothing and he would
be one of Isaiah's eloquence, a Samson in strength Maccabee and courage. Ah, we have a signed
Feuerbach's gender! The mark of Cain of restlessness covered our foreheads. Meaningless we
operate with our forces and our Assets, and if the remains will last just until the churchyard
wall, it is already lucky. It is not given to us to make a harmless walk, we must always equal
to having a goal, we can not breathe without thinking of an important purpose, and in anticipation
of the next day slips away from us every gracious presence.

He is, so are you, so am I, so we all are. I've never smelled a rose without thinking about too Grieve
that it will be tomorrow's faded, never seen a beautiful beggar child without to ruminate about the
inequality of the lots. Farewell, brother, the sky make my bad Forebodings unreal. "

Says the letter. This is expressed mistrust of the lieutenant finally grew so that Henry made all
possible efforts to divide the father with Hickel. It was of no avail, but smelled a rat and Hicks
showed in his conduct towards the daughter the President once an
impenetrable, sweet kindness.

As it Quandt visited and vividly complained that the president himself had cajoled by Hauser
leave and had approved its unguarded and unhindered walking around in the city, said Hickel, which
do not fit him, he would always come out to the State Council put its head.

He settled in Feuerbach report and told him his concerns regarding the undesirable measure before.
"Your Excellency should not have considered the responsibility you
impose on me, then," he said.

"If I have no control where man hinbringt his time, how to then provide for its security guarantee?
"

"Nonsense," growled Feuerbach, "I make a grown man can not lock up, so You can crush your afternoon
with peace of mind in the casino. "

Hickel fixed a evil look at his hands, but answered with a non-foul
play Sincerity: "I am so aware of a truck, Your Excellency the pleadings
so strict.

After all, a place the man must have, where it can warm themselves around, especially when
he is a bachelor. If you were in my skin, excellence, and I in your will, I think a mild-stricken officers.
"

Feuerbach laughed.

"What is it you crawled through the liver," he asked good-naturedly.

"Have You heartache? "He held the police lieutenant for a large suitier.

"At

this point, Sir, I'm too hard-bitten unfortunately," Hickel said, "although a cause of this
would exist, since some days, our city the honor of a very excellent to host beauty. "

"So," asked the President curious.

"Tell you once." He did not deny a naive little weakness for women.

"The lady is visiting with Mrs. von Imhoff -"

"Yes, right, spoke of the baroness," interrupted Feuerbach.

She first lived in the 'Star,' "Hicks continued," I went over and saw her a few times thoughtfully
by the window being, the view opened to the sky like a saint, and I was will always be looking
up, but that they hardly noticed me, she was frightened back. "

"Well, that I leave I like, that is well observed," the president teased, "it is therefore already
created a kind of agreement. "

"Unfortunately no, excellence, frankly, for gallant adventure is the
time to seriously."

"That should, I think," confirmed Feuerbach, and the smile on his
face faded.

He stood up and said briskly: "But it is also ripe that time. I plan on 28 April break. Take
before dispensation by the Office and shall be available to me. "

Hickel bowed. He looked expectantly at the president, and that understood the View. "Oh," he said.
"I must however admit that it has to be impracticable, the houses look after themselves. On
the other hand, it is not fair to him the world of Zuzuriegeln nose.

Of which he may have had enough.

As a result of loss of voluntary activity has skillful will to live
as sensitive as taken by chains and handcuffs.

"He could not agree with it, as always, the police lieutenant over
he found himself in his decisions cramped, it was a collision of power,
youth, cold and lack of conscience, which he was subject to it.

"But Your Excellency know, the threats -" objected Hickel.

"As long as I open my eyes in this city that is, no one dare to bend
it a hair, which you are quite certain.

"

Hicks raised his eyebrows and looked again the extended fingers of his hand. "And if he will one day
run over the hills, "he said darkly.

"To the many be trusted. I suggest that he should at least makes the evening, and monitor on walks.
In Errands in the city, he may be alone in an emergency.

The old invalid, we can Give marching orders, and I want to train
instead, my lad.

Let him daily at Report fünf clock afternoon in the staff house. "

"It's a solution," said fire would be Bach.

"Is the man trustworthy?"

"Good as gold."

What's his name? "

"Schildknecht, is a baker's son from the Baden."

"Done, so be it."

When Hicks was already under the door, the President called him back once and sharpened him
because of the upcoming joint tour absolute silence. Hickel said, such a reminder is not needed.

"I
could not make the journey alone," the president said, "I need the
Means of a prudent man.

The basin must be carefully scouted. Caution is required. Never forget that I will in this
matter a great proof of confidence give up. "

He looked at the lieutenant piercing. Hicks nodded mechanically. About Feuerbach's end fell
suddenly a cloud foreboding concern. "Go," he commanded briefly.

The trip will be taken up

On the same evening, Hicks was looking to the teacher and told him
that the soldier Schildknecht monitor from now on will Hauser.

Caspar was not at home, and when asked him Quandt said that he was the theater.

"Even back to the theater," said Hickel.

"The third time in a fortnight, when I right count. "

"He has taken a great liking for it," Quandt said, "almost all his pocket money He used this to
buy tickets. "

"With the allowance will, by the way, hapern soon," said the lieutenant,
has "Count me this time only half the agreed monthly exchange sent.

Apparently him the matter is too expensive. "

Stanhope had sent from the outset for Caspar to use funds to Hickel.

"Expensive? The Lord? A pair of the crown of Great Britain? This trifle expensive, "Quandt tore
his eyes in astonishment.

"You only tell no other, else you think you're making fun of the count,"
said the teacher.

Curious, she looked searchingly at the lieutenant. This slick slick and her husband had always
seemed strange and appealing. He brought the little Imagination, they had to move.

"Can not help," Hickel joined the conversation testily, "it is so. The Post notes is in front of
me for inspection. The count will already know what he's doing. "

When Caspar came home, Quandt asked him how he talk. "Not at all, it was so much of love in the
play, "he said angrily. "I can now once the stuff not stand. As they talk and complain, that is
a very stupid, and what is the end? There will be married. Since I'd rather give my money to a
beggar. "

"A little while ago was the lieutenant here and opened to us that
the Count your income significantly has diminished, "said Quandt.

"So you are all spending limit at all and the Theater, I'm afraid
to give up entirely.

"

Caspar sat at the table and ate his supper, and said nothing long. "Too bad he let himself finally
heard, "after next week is the Don Carlos by Schiller. This is a wonderful Piece of his that wants
to 'see I have. "

"Who has since announced that it is a wonderful piece?"

Quandt said with the indulgent superior face of the professional.

"I
have wife and wife of von Imhoff Kannawurf taken in the theater,"
said Caspar, "both have said it. "

The teacher raised his head: "Madame
de Kannawurf? Who is that again? "

"A friend of the Imhoff," said
Caspar.

Quandt conferred with his wife until midnight about how to
get in by the Send to count change was made. It was agreed that from
now on Caspar should have the lunch table for ten, and the dinner
table for eight cruisers. "If this is so, such as the police lieutenant
said, I have to pay more in any case, "said the teacher.

"We must
not forget that the houses in eating and drinking really unprecedented
in terms is, "said Quandt, whose honesty struggled against an unlawful
restriction.

Never mind, "insisted the woman," I must always have
so much more in the kitchen that a hungry man is tired. The 'I can
not get paid. "

The next morning brought the Hickel-month funds.
He and Quandt were just in the hall, as Caspar, ready to go out, came
down from his room. The teacher asked where he go, he replied, embarrassed,
he wanted a watchmaker, his clock was wrong, and he they must be addressed.
Quandt asked to see the Clock, Caspar she gave him, the teacher held
it to his ear, patted the case, tried it, if she was rearing, and
finally said: "The Clock There's nothing the least."

Caspar blushed
and said now that he can only engrave his name on the cover do, but
he should have been a lot of skillful hypocrite to his words, the
stamp to accept the excuse. Quandt and Hicks looked at each other.
"If you have a spark of honor in the body have, so you admit now open,
go wherever you wanted, "said Quandt seriously.

Caspar changed his
mind and said hesitantly, he had no intention of going into the Orangerie.

"In
the Orangery? Why? For what purpose? "

"The flowers for. There are
always so nice there in spring flowers. "

Hicks coughed significant.
He looked sharply at Caspar and said ironically: "A poet. Among flowers
- let me sigh ... "Then he took his military air and declared justified,
he had determined the President, unwisely granted permission to open
Going out to cash in again. Every day at five clock would take up
his fellow, and in whose company Caspar should do what he pleased.

Caspar
looked quietly out in the street, where the spring sun shone. "It
seems -" murmured He hesitated, but saw and give to himself.

"What
seems" asked the teacher. "Just out with it. That said half burns
the tongue. " It was not difficult for such a man in those days to procure an almost
unlimited credit for such purposes as these, for every one knew that, if he finally succeeded
in placing himself, by means of the popularity thus acquired, in stations of power, he could
soon indemnify himself and all others who had aided him. The peaceful merchants, and artisans,
and husbandmen of the distant provinces over which he expected to rule, would yield the revenues
necessary to fill the treasuries thus exhausted. Still, Caesar's expenditures were so lavish,
and the debts he incurred were so enormous, that those who had not the most unbounded confidence
in his capacity and his powers believed him irretrievably ruined.

The particulars, however, of these difficulties, and the manner in which Caesar contrived to
extricate himself from them, will be more fully detailed in the next chapter.

CHAPTER III.

ADVANCEMENT TO THE CONSULSHIP.

[Sidenote: Caesar's rise to power.]

From this time, which was about sixty-seven years before the birth of Christ, Caesar remained
for nine years generally at Rome, engaged there in a constant struggle for power. He was successful
in these efforts, rising all the time from one position of influence and honor to another,
until he became altogether the most prominent and powerful man in the city. A great many incidents
are recorded, as attending these contests, which illustrate in a very striking manner the strange
mixture of rude violence and legal formality by which Rome was in those days governed.

[Sidenote: Government of Rome.] [Sidenote: Bribery and corruption.] [Sidenote: Public amusements.]

Many of the most important offices of the state depended upon the votes of the people; and
as the people had very little opportunity to become acquainted with the real merits of the
case in respect to questions of government, they gave their votes very much according to the
personal popularity of the candidate. Public men had very little moral principle in those days,
and they would accordingly resort to any means whatever to procure this personal popularity.
They who wanted office were accustomed to bribe influential men among the people to support
them, sometimes by promising them subordinate offices, and sometimes by the direct donation
of sums of money; and they would try to please the mass of the people, who were too numerous
to be paid with offices or with gold, by shows and spectacles, and entertainments of every
kind which they would provide for their amusement.

This practice seems to us very absurd; and we wonder that the Roman people should tolerate
it, since it is evident that the means for defraying these expenses must come, ultimately,
in some way or other, from them. And yet, absurd as it seems, this sort of policy is not wholly
disused even in our day. The operas and the theaters, and other similar establishments in France,
are sustained, in part, by the government; and the liberality and efficiency with which this
is done, forms, in some degree, the basis of the popularity of each succeeding administration.
The plan is better systematized and regulated in our day, but it is, in its nature, substantially
the same.

[Sidenote: Amusements for the people.]

In fact, furnishing amusements for the people, and also providing supplies for their wants,
as well as affording them protection, were considered the legitimate objects of government
in those days. It is very different at the present time, and especially in this country. The
whole community are now united in the desire to confine the functions of government within
the narrowest possible limits, such as to include only the preservation of public order and
public safety. The people prefer to supply their own wants and to provide their own enjoyments,
rather than to invest government with the power to do it for them, knowing very well that,
on the latter plan, the burdens they will have to bear, though concealed for a time, must be
doubled in the end.

[Sidenote: Provided by the government.] [Sidenote: How the people were supported.] [Sidenote:
Agrarian laws.]

It must not be forgotten, however, that there were some reasons in the days of the Romans for
providing public amusements for the people on an extended scale which do not exist now. They
had very few facilities then for the private and separate enjoyments of home, so that they
were much more inclined than the people of this country are now to seek pleasure abroad and
in public. The climate, too, mild and genial nearly all the year, favored this. Then they were
not interested, as men are now, in the pursuits and avocations of private industry. The people
of Rome were not a community of merchants, manufacturers, and citizens, enriching themselves,
and adding to the comforts and enjoyments of the rest of mankind by the products of their labor.
They were supported, in a great measure, by the proceeds of the tribute of foreign provinces,
and by the plunder taken by the generals in the name of the state in foreign wars. From the
same source, too--foreign conquest--captives were brought home, to be trained as gladiators
to amuse them with their combats, and statues and paintings to ornament the public buildings
of the city. In the same manner, large quantities of corn, which had been taken in the provinces,
were often distributed at Rome. And sometimes even land itself, in large tracts, which had
been confiscated by the state, or otherwise taken from the original possessors, was divided
among the people. The laws enacted from time to time for this purpose were called Agrarian
laws; and the phrase afterward passed into a sort of proverb, inasmuch as plans proposed in
modern times for conciliating the favor of the populace by sharing among them property belonging
to the state or to the rich, are designated by the name of Agrarianism.

[Sidenote: Government of Rome.] [Sidenote: Its foreign policy.]

Thus Rome was a city supported, in a great measure, by the fruits of its conquests, that is,
in a certain sense, by plunder. It was a vast community most efficiently and admirably organized
for this purpose; and yet it would not be perfectly just to designate the people simply as
a band of robbers. They rendered, in some sense, an equivalent for what they took, in establishing
and enforcing a certain organization of society throughout the world, and in preserving a sort
of public order and peace. They built cities, they constructed aqueducts and roads; they formed
harbors, and protected them by piers and by castles; they protected commerce, and cultivated
the arts, and encouraged literature, and enforced a general quiet and peace among mankind,
allowing of no violence or war except what they themselves created. Thus they governed the
world, and they felt, as all governors of mankind always do, fully entitled to supply themselves
with the comforts and conveniences of life, in consideration of the service which they thus
rendered.

[Sidenote: Caesar's policy.]

Of course, it was to be expected that they would sometimes quarrel among themselves about the
spoils. Ambitious men were always arising, eager to obtain opportunities to make fresh conquests,
and to bring home new supplies, and those who were most successful in making the results of
their conquests available in adding to the wealth and to the public enjoyments of the city,
would, of course, be most popular with the voters. Hence extortion in the provinces, and the
most profuse and lavish expenditure in the city, became the policy which every great man must
pursue to rise to power.

[Sidenote: His success.]

Caesar entered into this policy with his whole soul, founding all his hopes of success upon
the favor of the populace. Of course, he had many rivals and opponents among the patrician
ranks, and in the Senate, and they often impeded and thwarted his plans and measures for a
time, though he always triumphed in the end.

[Sidenote: He is made quaestor.] [Sidenote: Caesar leaves Spain.] [Sidenote: His project.]

One of the first offices of importance to which he attained was that of quaestor, as it was
called, which office called him away from Rome into the province of Spain, making him the second
in command there. The kids came a little closer.

Now went forward Pussy and came quite close to the jogging, stopped
his mouth Ear and whispered into it: "Just come with me, jogging,
they may not s minds up.

Otto said the outside jogging, "This can take with you, we go home
now and you too, there down.

"

Since jogging shook his head and stood behind the puss.

, Occurred the three into the house and into the room, and here the Pussy got would involve
a Chair, took the meal-tray at hand and waved to the jogging that he came from. When he was
at the table sat, laid it all that was in the basket before him and said, "Eat you now only,
jogging, and you just eat everything on and was now quite cheerful. "

As the jogging laughed and ate the two large sausage and all the bread and the tremendous Piece
of cheese and then the crumbs. But she could be so calm, she knew
that Andres catered to the well and was well on the road to recovery.

It would be better been, he would have asked me for some money. I would have given him so. But
he has always flogged rather than talking. "

Now the colonel's wife came on a sunny winter morning from her door and climbed the cheerful
Mountain. Because they worked in their interior with a thought that suited her well.

Thus, the wife of Colonel Wiseli had never seen before. What could have happened there? She entered
in the room. There sitting on the sunny window of the Andres and
looked, as if one has never experienced Mischief about him fallen.

"What
happened here?" asked the colonel's wife and forgot about the horrors
good day . Say "But now the child was with me and has made a life
in my little house, like paradise. And now I have to give up the child
again, and everything gets more and oeder empty around me than before.
I can not stand it. You can not even think, as I love the child. I
can not stand it when she's away from me. Crassus, who was a man of vast wealth and a great friend of Caesar's, was associated
with him in this plot, and was to have been made dictator if it had succeeded. But, notwithstanding
the brilliant prize with which Caesar attempted to allure Crassus to the enterprise, his courage
failed him when the time for action arrived. Courage and enterprise, in fact, ought not to
be expected of the rich; they are the virtues of poverty.

[Sidenote: He is made aedile.] [Sidenote: Gladiatorial shows.] [Sidenote: Caesar's increasing
popularity.]

Though the Senate were thus jealous and suspicious of Caesar, and were charging him continually
with these criminal designs, the people were on his side; and the more he was hated by the
great, the more strongly he became intrenched in the popular favor. They chose him aedile.
The aedile had the charge of the public edifices of the city, and of the games spectacles,
and shows which were exhibited in them. Caesar entered with great zeal into the discharge of
the duties of this office. 

As this process was known, there was a tremendous excitement throughout the village, because
a Such a story never had occurred since it was. Especially in school all came out of order, so
all interested students for the exciting event. Otto was a few days completely out of breath
because he was constantly there-had to run and to where yet a closer listen to fact of the
matter was.

On the third evening after the dissemination of the message he was so excited but crashed home admonish
him that the mother had to sit still for a moment only, as it was breathlessness no word yet
brought forth quite again wanted to tell some news. Finally he could get rid of them. One had the Joggi,
who had remained locked up until then, get out want. But the poor fellow was afraid, and now
he believed he was to get people 's minds from. He refused to leave the chamber. Then two men
had it with all their might dragged out, but that he had shouted that all the people came running.
And then had he dreaded even more, and suddenly it was like this shot like an arrow and the next
barn into the back of a barn. As he sat all hunched with a terribly frightened face, and nobody could
bring him from the spot. "The poor jogging, what he needs to suffer in his fear that no one can
take away as he does not understand what could explain it to him. And poor, good-natured jogging
is quite innocent. Oh, children, you would have told me at once the whole experience as their
you came on the evening of the slide path. Your secrecy has brought only misfortune. Could
but we console the poor people and make merry again! "

The puss was quite soft. "I will give him the red candy cock", it said sobbing.

Otto was also a little contrite. He said somewhat scornfully, "Yes, a sugar Hahn an adult pass!
Keep you up for the just. "Then the children went to Mountain down to the stable.

With a very white, frightened face the jogging crouched in the back corner and did not.
 Marius,
as will be recollected, had been the great champion of the popular party, and the enemy of
the patricians; and, at the time of his down-fall, all the memorials of his power and greatness
had been every where removed from Rome, and among them these statues and trophies, which had
been erected in the Capitol in commemoration of some former victories, and had remained there
until Sylla's triumph, when they were taken down and destroyed. Caesar now ordered new ones
to be made, far more magnificent than before. They were made secretly, and put up in the night.
His office as aedile gave him the necessary authority. The next morning, when the people saw
these splendid monuments of their great favorite restored, the whole city was animated with
excitement and joy. The patricians, on the other hand, were filled with vexation and rage.
"Here is a single officer," said they, "who is attempting to restore, by his individual authority,
what has been formally abolished by a decree of the Senate. He is trying to see how much we
will bear. If he finds that we will submit to this, he will attempt bolder measures still."
They accordingly commenced a movement to have the statues and trophies taken down again, but
the people rallied in vast numbers in defense of them. They made the Capitol ring with their
shouts of applause; and the Senate, finding their power insufficient to cope with so great
a force, gave up the point, and Caesar gained the day.

[Sidenote: The Good Goddess.]

Caesar had married another wife after the death of Cornelia. Her name was Pompeia, He divorced
Pompeia about this time, under very extraordinary circumstances. Among the other strange religious
ceremonies and celebrations which were observed in those days, was one called the celebration
of the mysteries of the Good Goddess. This celebration was held by females alone, every thing
masculine being most carefully excluded. Even the pictures of men, if there were any upon the
walls of the house where the assembly was held, were covered. The persons engaged spent the
night together in music and dancing and various secret ceremonies, half pleasure, half worship,
according to the ideas and customs of the time.

[Sidenote: Clodius.] [Sidenote: Caesar divorces his wife.]

The mysteries of the Good Goddess were to be celebrated one night at Caesar's house, he himself
having, of course, withdrawn. In the middle of the night, the whole company in one of the apartments
were thrown into consternation at finding that one of their number was a man. He had a smooth
and youthful-looking face, and was very perfectly disguised in the dress of a female. He proved
to be a certain Clodius, a very base and dissolute young man, though of great wealth and high
connections. He had been admitted by a female slave of Pompeia's, whom he had succeeded in
bribing. It was suspected that it was with Pompeia's concurrence. At any rate, Caesar immediately
divorced his wife. The Senate ordered an inquiry into the affair, and, after the other members
of the household had given their testimony, Caesar himself was called upon, but he had nothing
to say. He knew nothing about it. Understandably ---------------------------------------- Rome
against Carthage was looking at the Hellenic maritime states to base. was with Massalia the old
narrow Freundschaftsverhaeltnis uninterruptedly. The conquest of Rome by Veiis sent an offering
to Delphi there was kept in the Treasury of the Massiliots. After the capture of Rome by the
Celts was in for Massalia collected, irradiated, and the city treasury went ahead, in retaliation
then granted the Roman Senate Massiliots Handelsbeguenstigungen merchants and admitted at the ceremony
of the games on the market next Senatorentribuene of the Massiliots a place of honor (graecostasis)
a. Thither belong that around the year 448 (306) with Rhodes and not long afterwards with Apollonia,
a considerable Mercantile city on the coast Epirots, by the Romans concluded trade and Freundschaftsvertraege
and especially for Carthage very serious approach, which immediately after the end of the Pyrrhic War between
Rome and Syracuse took place. Thus, when the Roman sea power Although with the tremendous development
of the land forces did not step away, and especially its own navy in the Roemer was not what
they according to the geographical and commercial Position as the state would have to be so caught
but also they gradually from the total demise Annulment to which it about the year 400 (354) had sunk,
up elaborate again; and the great resources of Italy's well-liked the Phoenicians with worried glances
pursue these efforts. The crisis over the rule in the Italian waters was approaching, the fight
was decided on land. For the first time, Italy was under the rule the Roman community united
into one state. What political powers while the Roman The community all of the other Italian
withdrew and took in their sole possession, the meaning which state law is about to connect to
this rule of Rome, is never explicitly said, and it lacks even, calculated in a significant and wise
As, for ^ this term to a more generally expressed 9th Demonstrably belonged only to the war
and the contract and the right to mint, so no one Italian community foreign state declare
war or negotiate with him only and no money to beat Courant could, however, each of the Roman
community, adopted a declaration of war and each of their concluded treaty of right band with
all the rest and Italian communities the Roman silver coins in all of Italy was legally viable,
and it is likely that formulated the leading powers of the municipality is not further extended.
However necessarily tied thereto actually much more extensive rights to rule themselves. -------------------------------------------
^ 9, the clause that the dependent people committed to "the sovereignty of the Roman-friendly
should be valid "(maiestatem populi Romani comite conservare), however, is the technical Name
this mildest Untertaenigkeitsform, but probably would later be significant only in Time come
up (Cic. Balb. 16, 35). The private legal name of clients, so aptly described it precisely in its vagueness, the ratio (Dig. 49,
15, 7, 1), is been difficult in earlier times applied officially to the same thing. -------------------------------------------
Specifically, the ratio in which the Italians were leading to the community, a highly unequal,
and in this respect, except the full Roman citizenship, to distinguish three different classes of
subjects. especially those self was so far extended when it was all possible, for without the
notion of an urban community the Roman community completely give up. The old area was mayor until
then mainly Einzelassignation has been growing in such a way that the southern Etruria up against Caere and Falerii,
the Hernik tracks ripped from the Sacco and the anions, the largest Part of the Sabine countryside
and large stretches of the formerly Volscian, especially the pomptinische Level, converted to Roman
peasant land and its inhabitants for the most part, new citizens districts were established.
 He told her that he should come home that night the pontiff, or he should never
come home at all. He succeeded in gaining the election.

[Sidenote: He is deposed.] [Sidenote: Caesar's forbearance.] [Sidenote: He is restored to office.]

At one time Caesar was actually deposed from a high office which he held, by a decree of the
Senate. He determined to disregard this decree, and go on in the discharge of his office as
usual. But the Senate, whose ascendency was now, for some reason, once more established, prepared
to prevent him by force of arms. Caesar, finding that he was not sustained, gave up the contest,
put off his robes of office, and went home. Two days afterward a reaction occurred. A mass
of the populace came together to his house, and offered their assistance to restore his rights
and vindicate his honor. Caesar, however, contrary to what every one would have expected of
him, exerted his influence to calm and quiet the mob, and then sent them away, remaining himself
in private as before. The Senate had been alarmed at the first outbreak of the tumult, and
a meeting had been suddenly convened to consider what measures to adopt in such a crisis. When,
however, they found that Caesar had himself interposed, and by his own personal influence had
saved the city from the danger which threatened it, they were so strongly impressed with a
sense of his forbearance and generosity, that they sent for him to come to the senate house,
and, after formally expressing their thanks, they canceled their former vote, and restored
him to his office again. This change in the action of the Senate does not, however, necessarily
indicate so great a change of individual sentiment as one might at first imagine. There was,
undoubtedly, a large minority who were averse to his being deposed in the first instance but,
being outvoted, the decree of deposition was passed. Others were, perhaps, more or less doubtful.
Caesar's generous forbearance in refusing the offered aid of the populace carried over a number
of these sufficient to shift the majority, and thus the action of the body was reversed. It
is in this way that the sudden and apparently total changes in the action of deliberative assemblies
which often take place, and which would otherwise, in some cases, be almost incredible, are
to be explained.

[Sidenote: Caesar implicated in Catiline's conspiracy.] [Sidenote: He arrests Vettius.]

After this, Caesar became involved in another difficulty, in consequence of the appearance
of some definite and positive evidence that he was connected with Catiline in his famous conspiracy. If the marriage community, as it is not unlikely, but certainly anything
less is identified as (top 1, 116;.. Diod p. 590, 62 p. 130 Dind Aliens Vat.) a part of the
original bundesgenoessischen legal equality was, it is certainly the younger was not granted. -------------------------------------------------
The ratio of non-Latin League finally succumbed Of course, the communities manifold standards,
as had just the single federal contract set them. Some of these eternal alliances, such as the
Hernik communities went over in complete Equality with the Latin. Others where this was not the
case, like that of Naples, Nola, Heraclea guaranteed respecting proportionality very extensive
rights, while others, such as the Tarentum and the Samnite contracts, may be the tyranny have
approached. As a general rule can well be assumed that not only the Latin and Hernik, of which
it is handed down, but all Voelkergenossenschaften Italic, namely, the Samnite and Lucanian, legally
dissolved, or at least to insignificance were slower on average and no Italian community with other
Italian the traffic or marriage community or even the common deliberation and decision-making rights
state. Further, although in different ways, have been taken to ensure that the Military and fiscal capacity
of all of the leading Italian communities was at stake. Furthermore, although still a citizen
militia and the quotas "Latin name" viewed the other as the essential and integral parts of the Roman
army were and it therefore retains its national character in the whole remained so were it not
only the Roman citizens to the same liabilities used to, but no doubt the non-Latin federated communities
either, as happened to the Greek, committed to the position of battleships, or, as for the Apulian,
Sabellian Etruscan and all at once or gradually must have been prescribed in the directory acknowledge
the duty of Italians (formula togatorum) recorded. Consistency seems this to immigration have
been standardized just like the Latin communities of the firm, but without the leading communities
involved had been necessary to prevent, to demand more. It was in this also an indirect taxation
by each municipality was required to own their quota equip and pay. Not without intention were
therefore preferably the most expensive War effort on the Latin or Latin federated communities
rolled, the Navy for the most part by the Greek cities maintained and Ross the service of
the allies, later at least three times stronger relationship dressed as the Roman citizenship,
while in the infantry of the old saying that the allies quota probably not more numerous than the
citizens army, long time at least as a rule in Power remained. The system by which this construction
in detail the assembled and held together Ward, leaves out the few messages have come down to
us no longer notice. Self the Zahlenverhaeltnis, in which the three classes of subjection to
one another and to the Full citizenship is no longer standing, and to determine approximate
^ 13 and also the geographical distribution of each category over Italy only imperfectly known.
The this underlying structure leading ideas are so openly before, however, that there is little needed is to develop
it even more. Above all was, as I said, the immediate Circle of the ruling community in part
by settlement of the full citizens, in part by award of passive citizenship will take extended as
far as was possible without the Roman community, but that was a town and should remain, to decentralize
fully.
 He represented to them that, by contending
against each other, they only exhausted their own powers, and strengthened the arms of their
common enemies. He proposed to them to unite with one another and with him, and thus make common
cause to promote their common interest and advancement. They willingly acceded to this plan,
and a triple league was accordingly formed, in which they each bound themselves to promote,
by every means in his power, the political elevation of the others, and not to take any public
step or adopt any measures without the concurrence of the three. Caesar faithfully observed
the obligations of this league so long as he could use his two associates to promote his own
ends, and then he abandoned it.

[Sidenote: Caesar a candidate for the consulship.]

Having, however, completed this arrangement, he was now prepared to push vigorously his claims
to be elected consul. He associated with his own name that of Lucceius, who was a man of great
wealth, and who agreed to defray the expenses of the election for the sake of the honor of
being consul with Caesar. Caesar's enemies, however, knowing that they probably could not prevent
his election, determined to concentrate their strength in the effort to prevent his having
the colleague he desired. They made choice, therefore, of a certain Bibulus as their candidate.
Bibulus had always been a political opponent of Caesar's, and they thought that, by associating
him with Caesar in the supreme magistracy, the pride and ambition of their great adversary
might be held somewhat in check. They accordingly made a contribution among themselves to enable
Bibulus to expend as much money in bribery as Lucceius, and the canvass went on.

[Sidenote: Caesar assumes the whole power.] [Sidenote: He imprisons Cato.]

It resulted in the election of Caesar and Bibulus. They entered upon the duties of their office;
but Caesar, almost entirely disregarding his colleague, began to assume the whole power, and
proposed and carried measure after measure of the most extraordinary character, all aiming
at the gratification of the populace. He was at first opposed violently both by Bibulus and
by many leading members of the Senate, especially by Cato, a stern and inflexible patriot,
whom neither fear of danger nor hope of reward could move from what he regarded his duty. But
Caesar was now getting strong enough to put down the opposition which he encountered with out
much scruple as to the means. He ordered Cato on one occasion to be arrested in the Senate
and sent to prison. Another influential member of the Senate rose and was going out with him.
Caesar asked him where he was going. He said he was going with Cato. He would rather, he said,
be with Cato in prison, than in the Senate with Caesar.

[Sidenote: Bibulus retires to his house.] [Sidenote: The year of "Julius and Caesar."]

Caesar treated Bibulus also with so much neglect, and assumed so entirely the whole control
of the consular power, to the utter exclusion of his colleague, that Bibulus at last, completely
discouraged and chagrined, abandoned all pretension to official authority, retired to his house,
and shut himself up in perfect seclusion, leaving Caesar to his own way. It was customary among
the Romans, in their historical and narrative writings, to designate the successive years,
not by a numerical date as with us, but by the names of the consuls who held office in them.
Thus, in the time of Caesar's consulship, the phrase would have been, "In the year of Caesar
and Bibulus, consuls," according to the ordinary usage; but the wags of the city, in order
to make sport of the assumptions of Caesar and the insignificance of Bibulus, used to say,
"In the year of Julius and Caesar, consuls," rejecting the name of Bibulus altogether, and
taking the two names of Caesar to make out the necessary duality. And even in the Swiss Alps, the Carpathian Mountains, in the Pyrenees and almost
in all major mountain ranges seen one overturned the immense masses of rock's most often and standing
on his head. Now and then they lie in a curvilinear bent direction so that the concave side is
directed outward hingewandt. Short, it is in the location and Position of the location and
description of layers no conceivable that even in these rock masses could find instead.

All of these enormous masses of rock in its interior by massive columns, cracks, hollow curves and
separated gaps in every possible way from each other, sometimes in the horizontal, soon run
obliquely in vast expanses of it then, and now standing upright, was as if rock walls of rock walls
pushed and pushed to one another were found, be, and every now and then with metal compounds, including
WOL with vegetable and animal Products have filled out. And from the outside, those on all manner of
other casual and separated now and then fallen rock masses through broad and deep valleys [A] from each
other, deep lakes which are now and again arose, and said it is very striking that we often on that
side a different rock layer, and it held up quite differently than the other side sees.

[Note A: The great work of the Saussure, over the Alps, is full of
evidence that all the valleys, down to its smallest Branching, formed
by the fall of the layers.

  S. Gilbert Annal. Vol 22 p. 168]
  
  Besides these great natural wonders what the attentive observer to
  wonder and quiet Surprise is mixed, and it would involve the usual
way, by the power of fire and tides, can not be explained satisfactorily,
he sees rock fragments of granite masses not just on planes, but also
on hills and mountains, far from their birthplaces, cast.

For example, the plains and hills of Germany and Italy, and the ridges of the Jura Mountains with
the granite blocks of the Alps, here to heights of 5,000 feet by 950 feet and deep and over 3
hours hinangefluthet wide Lake Geneva are sown.

But not alone on the hills, plains and mountains of these two countries, but almost all levels, hills
and mountains of Europe to the northern mountains of this Erdtheils down, lie down, the granite
blocks and again ausgestreuet in significant amounts and size [A].

And in South America in the region of Potosi find granite boulders, without guess to how and
where did they come here. And as the earth's crust on the surface is strewn with granite blocks
and other pieces of rock, including its interior is filled with it, and they are in it just
as scattered and spread out, as on its surface.

[Note A: So the 30 to 40.000 cubic feet of granite containing block from which the pedestal to the
statue of Peter the Great made been, is located in the Gulf of Finland
on a limestone.

  And at the island of Usedom in several granite peaks rise to the Baltic
  seas rise, and the Swedish province of Scania, as the Jutland Peninsula
  are to this granite rubble Sun filled lot that was built like walls,
  churches, etc. are.]
  
  That is only small and weak, illustrated painting of the interior
  of the earth, what you into more and more detailed de la Metherie's
  theory of the earth in the 2nd Parts, Bergmann's physical description
of the globe in the 1st Parts, Saussure's investigations in the Alps
Tours about the origin and formation of the current arrangement of
the universe by the marshals can be found by Bieberstein follows,
then, that we live in by powerful revolutions his heart had been smashed
and destroyed.

As these destructions 1) not by the power of the subterranean fires, which devastate WOL individual
parts of the earth's surface, Masses of rock uplift and they can shatter, but not enormous masses
of rock on rock masses to throw it to overturn, such as walls and on walls in rows and thereby mountain
ranges of 70 miles, as the Pyrenees, and from 1700 miles, like make the Cordilleras in America can -
and 2) even through the power of the tides by the fact that previously quoted Phenomena can
not explain, could be produced, then an other, have produced far more powerful cause of this
great revolution in the interior of the earth. And this is no different and can be no other than
a frequent Aufstürzen foreign firm World masses on the Earth, thereby destroying the bark of the same,
their masses of rock thrown around and was mixed with strange rock masses.


[Sidenote: Ariovistus.] [Sidenote: The Aeduans.]

Ariovistus was a German king. He had been nominally a sort of ally of the Romans. He had extended
his conquests across the Rhine into Gaul, and he held some nations there as his tributaries.
Among these, the Aeduans were a prominent party, and, to simplify the account, we will take
their name as the representative of all who were concerned. When Caesar came into the region
of the Aeduans, he entered into some negotiations with them, in which they, as he alleges,
asked his assistance to enable them to throw off the dominion of their German enemy. It is
probable, in fact, that there was some proposition of this kind from them, for Caesar had abundant
means of inducing them to make it, if he was disposed, and the receiving of such a communication
furnished the most obvious and plausible pretext to authorize and justify his interposition.

Caesar accordingly sent a messenger across the Rhine to Ariovistus, saying that he wished to
have an interview with him on business of importance, and asking him to name a time which would
be convenient to him for the interview, and also to appoint some place in Gaul where he would
attend.

[Sidenote: Caesar's negotiations with Ariovistus.]

To this Ariovistus replied, that if he had, himself, any business with Caesar, he would have
waited upon him to propose it; and, in the same manner, if Caesar wished to see him, he must
come into his own dominions. He said that it would not be safe for him to come into Gaul without
an army, and that it was not convenient for him to raise and equip an army for such a purpose
at that time.

[Sidenote: His message.]

Caesar sent again to Ariovistus to say, that since he was so unmindful of his obligations to
the Roman people as to refuse an interview with him on business of common interest, he would
state the particulars that he required of him. The Aeduans, he said, were now his allies, and
under his protection; and Ariovistus must send back the hostages which he held from them, and
bind himself henceforth not to send any more troops across the Rhine, nor make war upon the
Aeduans, or injure them in any way. If he complied with these terms, all would be well. If
he did not, Caesar said that he should not himself disregard the just complaints of his allies.

[Sidenote: Ariovistus's spirited reply to Caesar.]

Ariovistus had no fear of Caesar. Caesar had, in fact, thus far, not begun to acquire the military
renown to which he afterward attained Ariovistus had, therefore, no particular cause to dread
his power. He sent him back word that he did not understand why Caesar should interfere between
him and his conquered province.

"The Aeduans," said he, "tried the fortune of war with me, and were overcome; and they must
abide the issue. The Romans manage their conquered provinces as they judge proper, without
holding themselves accountable to any one. I shall do the same with mine. All that I can say
is, that so long as the Aeduans submit peaceably to my authority, and pay their tribute, I
shall not molest them; as to your threat that you shall not disregard their complaints, you
must know that no one has ever made war upon me but to his own destruction, and, if you wish
to see how it will turn out in your case, you may make the experiment whenever you please."

[Sidenote: Preparations for war.]

Both parties immediately prepared for war. Ariovistus, instead of waiting to be attacked, assembled
his army, crossed the Rhine, and advanced into the territories from which Caesar had undertaken
to exclude him.

[Sidenote: Panic in the Roman army.]

As Caesar, however, began to make his arrangements for putting his army in motion to meet his
approaching enemy, there began to circulate throughout the camp such extraordinary stories
of the terrible strength and courage of the German soldiery as to produce a very general panic.
So great, at length, became the anxiety and alarm, that even the officers were wholly dejected
and discouraged; and as for the men, they were on the very eve of mutiny.

[Sidenote: Caesar's address.]

When Caesar understood this state of things, he called an assembly of the troops, and made
an address to them. He told them that he was astonished to learn to what an extent an unworthy
despondency and fear had taken possession of their minds, and how little confidence they reposed
in him, their general. And then, after some further remarks about the duty of a soldier to
be ready to go wherever his commander leads him, and presenting also some considerations in
respect to the German troops with which they were going to contend, in order to show them that
they had no cause to fear, he ended by saying that he had not been fully decided as to the
time of marching, but that now he had concluded to give orders for setting out the next morning
at three o'clock, that he might learn, as soon as possible, who were too cowardly to follow
him. He would go himself, he said, if he was attended by the tenth legion alone He was sure
that they would not shrink from any undertaking in which he led the way.

[Sidenote: Effect of Caesar's address.] [Sidenote: Proposals for an interview.]

The soldiers, moved partly by shame, partly by the decisive and commanding tone which their
general assumed, and partly reassured by the courage and confidence which he seemed to feel,
laid aside their fears, and vied with each other henceforth in energy and ardor. The armies
approached each other. Ariovistus sent to Caesar, saying that now, if he wished it, he was
ready for an interview. Caesar acceded to the suggestion, and the arrangements for a conference
were made, each party, as usual in such cases, taking every precaution to guard against the
treachery of the other.

Between the two camps there was a rising ground, in the middle of an open plain, where it was
decided that the conference should be held. Ariovistus proposed that neither party should bring
any foot soldiers to the place of meeting, but cavalry alone; and that these bodies of cavalry,
brought by the respective generals, should remain at the foot of the eminence on either side,
while Caesar and Ariovistus themselves, attended each by only ten followers on horseback, should
ascend it. This plan was acceded to by Caesar, and a long conference was held in this way between
the two generals, as they sat upon their horses, on the summit of the hill.

[Sidenote: Conference between Caesar and Ariovistus.] [Sidenote: Caesar's messenger seized.]

The two generals, in their discussion, only repeated in substance what they had said in their
embassages before, and made no progress toward coming to an understanding. At length Caesar
closed the conference and withdrew. Some days afterward Ariovistus sent a request to Caesar,
asking that he would appoint another interview, or else that he would depute one of his officers
to proceed to Ariovistus's camp and receive a communication which he wished to make to him.
Caesar concluded not to grant another interview, and he did not think it prudent to send any
one of his principal officers as an embassador, for fear that he might be treacherously seized
and held as a hostage. He accordingly sent an ordinary messenger, accompanied by one or two
men. These men were all seized and put in irons as soon as they reached the camp of Ariovistus,
and Caesar now prepared in earnest for giving his enemy battle.

[Sidenote: Defeat of the Germans.]

He proved himself as skillful and efficient in arranging and managing the combat as he had
been sagacious and adroit in the negotiations which preceded it. Several days were spent in
maneuvers and movements, by which each party endeavored to gain some advantage over the other
in respect to their position in the approaching struggle. When at length the combat came, Caesar
and his legions were entirely and triumphantly successful. The Germans were put totally to
flight. Their baggage and stores were all seized, and the troops themselves fled in dismay
by all the roads which led back to the Rhine; and there those who succeeded in escaping death
from the Romans, who pursued them all the way, embarked in boats and upon rafts, and returned
to their homes. Ariovistus himself found a small boat, in which, with one or two followers,
he succeeded in getting across the stream.

[Sidenote: Release of Caesar's messenger.]

As Caesar, at the head of a body of his troops, was pursuing the enemy in this their flight,
he overtook one party who had a prisoner with them confined by iron chains fastened to his
limbs, and whom they were hurrying rapidly along. This prisoner proved to be the messenger
that Caesar had sent to Ariovistus's camp, and whom he had, as Caesar alleges, treacherously
detained. Of course, he was overjoyed to be recaptured and set at liberty. The man said that
three times they had drawn lots to see whether they should burn him alive then, or reserve
the pleasure for a future occasion, and that every time the lot had resulted in his favor.

[Sidenote: Results of the victory.] [Sidenote: Caesar's continued success.]

The consequence of this victory was, that Caesar's authority was established triumphantly over
all that part of Gaul which he had thus freed from Ariovistus's sway. Other parts of the country,
too, were pervaded by the fame of his exploits, and the people every where began to consider
what action it would be incumbent on them to take, in respect to the new military power which
had appeared so suddenly among them. Some nations determined to submit without resistance,
and to seek the conqueror's alliance and protection. Others, more bold, or more confident of
their strength, began to form combinations and to arrange plans for resisting him. But, whatever
they did, the result in the end was the same. Caesar's ascendency was every where and always
gaining ground. Of course, it is impossible in the compass of a single chapter, which is all
that can be devoted to the subject in this volume, to give any regular narrative of the events
of the eight years of Caesar's military career in Gaul. Marches, negotiations, battles, and
victories mingled with and followed each other in a long succession, the particulars of which
it would require a volume to detail, every thing resulting most successfully for the increase
of Caesar's power and the extension of his fame.

[Sidenote: Account of northern nations.] [Sidenote: Their strange customs.] [Sidenote: Well-trained
horses.]

Caesar gives, in his narrative, very extraordinary accounts of the customs and modes of life
of some of the people that he encountered. There was one country, for example, in which all
the lands were common, and the whole structure of society was based on the plan of forming
the community into one great martial band. The nation was divided into a hundred cantons, each
containing two thousand men capable of bearing arms. If these were all mustered into service
together, they would form, of course, an army of two hundred thousand men. The eastern and the western state system existed
side by side, without first accessing each other politically, and especially Rome remained the
intricacies of Diadochenperiode much stranger. Only relations of an economic nature be noted,
because such as the Rhodes, Free State, the chief representative a neutral trade policy in
Greece and therefore, the general agent of the traffic in a time of perpetual war, around the year
448 (306) completed an agreement with Rome, of course a trade treaty, as it is natural between
a merchant people and the gentlemen of the caeritischen and Campanian coast. Also in the Soeldnerlieferung,
the general of the Advertising space at that time, of Greece went to Italy, and especially to
Taranto, had the political relationship, for example, between Taranto and his mother Sparta,
passed with only a very minor way, in all the ads were nothing as a commercial business, and
Sparta, although the Tarentines regularly to the Italian Get the captains came supplied with
the Italians about as little as feud in the North American War of Independence, the German states of
the Union, their opponents, they sold their subjects. --------------------------------------------------
- ^ 1 The narrative that even the Romans Sent ambassadors to Alexander to Babylon, going to the testimony
of Kleitarchos back (Pliny Nat. 3, 5, 57), from which the other, this fact reporting tools
(Aristos and Asclepiades Arrian in 7, 15, 5; Memnon c. 25) forge without a doubt. Kleitarchos
however, was a contemporary of these events, but his life of Alexander nevertheless held on several historic
Novel as history, and in the silence of reliable biographers (article cited above, Liv. 9, 18) and
the completely novel-like detail of the report that, for example, the Romans Alexander with a
golden crown and handed predicted that the future size of Rome should have, you will not be able
to avoid this story to many others by Kleitarchos to place in the history introducet decoration.
-------------------------------------------------- - Nothing but a war-adventurer Captain King
Pyrrhus of Epirus was he was none the less a HAPPY BIRTHDAY, he's pedigree traces back to Aeakos and
Achilles and that, had he been disposed to peaceful, as "king" over a small Mountain people under Macedonian supremacy,
or at best would have freedom in isolated can live and die. He has been well compared to Alexander
of Macedon, and although the founding of a West Hellenic Empire, the core of Epirus, Magna Graecia,
Sicily formed, would have the seas and dominated the two Italian Rome and Carthage in the series
the barbaric Grenzvoelker of the Hellenistic state system, the Celts and Indians urged would have
- this idea is probably big and bold as the one that the Macedonian Koenig led over the Hellespont.
But not only the various different output the eastern and the western Heerzug. Alexander was with
his Macedonian army in particular, the staff was EXCELLENT, the great-king offers the perfect
top, but The king of Epirus, Macedonia was standing next to something like Hesse next Prussia, received
a significant army only by mercenaries and alliances, the policy on random Based combinations.
Alexander was in the Persian Empire as a conqueror, Pyrrhus in Italy as commander of a coalition
of Sekundaerstaaten, Alexander bequeathed his inheritance completely secured by the absolute
subjection of Greece and the strong, under Antipater remaining army, Pyrrhus vouched for the integrity
of its own territory does not as the word of a dubious neighbors. For both conquerors heard
if its plans go, the home is necessary to, the focus of the new kingdom to be, but rather it was
executable to relocate the headquarters of the Macedonian Militaermonarchie to Babylon than
in Taranto Syracuse, or to found a dynasty soldiers. The democracy of the Greek republics, so it
was a perpetual agony, settled in the stiff forms of Militaerstaats now back force not once,
Phil knew well why he's the Greek Republics Reich is not incorporated. In the East, a national
resistance was not expected; ruling and serving tribes lived there for a long time next to each other
and the change of the despot was the mass of the population indifferent or even desired. In
the West were the Romans, the Samnites, the Carthaginians also be overcome, but not a conqueror
would have been able to to transform the Italians in the Roman or Egyptian Fellahs farmers
Interest- to make Hellenic barons. What is also envisages that own power, the allies, the forces
of the enemy - everywhere appears the plan of the executable Makedoniers than one of the Epirots
as an impossible undertaking, that as the execution of a large historic task of this as a remarkable
blunder, that as the foundation to a new state system and a new phase of civilization, this
story as a Episode. Alexander's work outlived him, although the Creator died at the wrong time,
saw Pyrrhus with their own eyes the failure of all of his plans before the death he'd get.
They were both bold and big natures, but only the first general Pyrrhus, especially the brilliant
Alexander Statesman of his time, and if it is the insight into the possible and impossible, the separates
the hero of the adventurer, it must Pyrrhus added that counts and must be less Relatives is
so rarely put to the side such as the Constable of Bourbon Louis Eleventh. And yet, a wonderful
magic ties in the name of the Epirotes, its own Participation, although some of the chivalrous
and charming personality of the same, but everything still applies to the fact that he is the first
Greek to the Romans in battle opposite occurs. With him start those direct relations between
Rome and Greece, on which the whole subsequent development of ancient civilization and an essential
part of the modern is based. The struggle between phalanges and cohorts, and between the Soeldnerarmee
of the militia, between the military kingship and the Senator regiment, between the individual
Talent and national character - the struggle between Rome and Hellenism was first fought in the
battles between Pyrrhus and the Roman generals, and even if the unsuccessful party is still
often called upon later to the new decision of the arms, but any subsequent slaughter has simply
confirmed the verdict. If, on the battlefield subject as in the Curia, the Greeks, then their superiority
decided no less in any other non-political event, and just have these struggles have guessed it,
that the victory over Rome will be different from the Greeks over the Gauls and Phoenicians Aphrodite's
magic and that only begins to work when the lance and helmet and fragmented Sign is put aside.
King Pyrrhus was the son of Aeakides, Lord of the Molosser (To Janine), who, protected by
Alexander as a relative and faithful vassal, after which swept into the vortex of death of the
Macedonian family policy was and is first his empire and then lost his life (441 313). His
son was then sechsjaehriger of the Lord of the Illyrian Taulantians, Glaukias saved, and in the
course of its war to Macedonia Holding a boy, attributed by Demetrios the assailants returned
to his ancestral Principality (447 307) to it after a few years back by the influence of the other
party losing (by 452 302) and as landfluechtiger princes son in the wake of the Macedonian
generals to begin his military career. Soon, his personality made itself felt. Under Antigonus
he did with his last Feldzuege, and the old Marshal Alexander had his joy in the born soldier who
in the opinion of the gray-haired commander, only the Were missing for years now, the first
soldier of the time being. The disastrous battle at Ipsos brought him to Alexandria as a hostage
to the court of the founder of the Lagidendynastie, where he be bold and crude nature, its not
all military thoroughly despising Soldiers no less sense of the politic king Ptolemy drew
attention to itself as by his male beauty, which the wild face, the huge impact no entry did
those of the royal ladies. Just then founded his kuehne of Demetrios once again, this time in
Macedonia, a new empire, of course, with the intention of there, the Alexander Monarchy to renew.
It was necessary to keep down him to make him at home to create, and the Lagids, Such souls
of fire, as the Epirots youth was one admirably for its fine knew how to use policy did not
merely his consort, Queen Berenice a favor but also improve its own purposes, by the young princes
his step-daughter, the princess Antigone was the wife and the beloved "son" to return home
his assistance and his mighty influence lent (458 296). Returned in his father's Empire soon
fell to everything, the brave Epirots, the Albanians of antiquity, hung with ancestral loyalty
and fresh enthusiasm to the brave young man, the "Eagles" as they him were called. In the Macedonian
to the throne after Cassander's death (457 297) incurred Advanced Epirots turmoil of his kingdom, he
gradually won the landscapes on which Ambracian bosom with the important city gained possession
of the island of Corfu, and even some of the Macedonian territory, and resisted with far fewer
armed forces to the king Demetrios to the admiration of the Macedonians themselves Yes, as Demetrius
by his own folly in Macedonia from the throne was overthrown, there was one the chivalrous opponent, the
relatives of the Alexandrides, the same voluntarily (467 287). In fact, none was more worthy
than Pyrrhus, the royal Diadem to take Philip and Alexander. In a deep forgotten time, in the
princely and meanness began to be synonymous shone brightly Pyrrhus' personally undefiled and morally
pure character. For the free farmers of the Macedonian native land, which, although reduced and
impoverished, but are kept away from the decline of morals and Bravery, the cause that led Diadochenregiment
in Greece and Asia seemed just Pyrrhus really created quite to the king, he, the same at his home
in Alexander, Friends of all human relations, his heart was open, and in Macedonia Oriental Sultan
that accursed creature had always repelled by itself, he, like Alexander recognized the first
tactician of his time. But the strange Macedonian national feeling over-stressed, the most miserable
Macedonian Lord The brave foreigners preferred to the unreasonable Intractability of the Macedonian
forces against each non-Macedonian leaders, who of the greatest generals of Alexander's school,
the kardian Eumenes had succumbed prepared, even the rule of the princes Epirots a quick end. Pyrrhus,
the control of Macedonia with the will of the Macedonians could not lead, and powerless, maybe was
too generous to the people to impose against his will, leaving already after seven months' rule
the land of his native misrule and went home his faithful Epirots (467 287). But the man who had
carried Alexander's Crown, the Brother of Demetrius, the son of Lagids and Agathocles of Syracuse,
the highly educated Strategist who wrote memoirs, and scientific treatise on the art of war, was
impossible to decide his life that he too aware of time in the Accounts of the royal cattle manager
and looked through his brave Epirots the landueblichen Gifts of cattle and sheep who accepted
to be then at the altar of Zeus of them to renew the oath of allegiance and the oath to repeat
itself to the laws and all this carousing to be more affirming to them through the night. There
was no room for him on the Macedonian throne, was not at all in the home of his staying; He
could be the first and not the second. Thus, his eyes turned into the distance. The Kings, which
strove for possession of Macedonia, although united in nothing else, were willing to to help communities
that voluntarily reject the dangerous rival, and that the loyal war comrades would follow
him wherever he led them, he was certain. Just At that time the Italian situation so that now
appear again as executable could do what forty years before Pyrrhus' relative, his father's cousin
Alexander of Epirus, and intended only just had his father Agathocles, and then they decided to
Pyrrhus, to abandon his Macedonian and plans in the West a new rule for themselves and for
to establish the Hellenic nation. The ceasefire, the peace with Samnium 464 (290) for Italy had
brought was short-lived, and the impetus for the formation of a new Ligue against the Roman
supremacy came this time from the Luca agents. These tribes of the through their advocacy for
the Tarentines Rome during the Samnite wars and paralyzed had contributed to their decision were significantly,
but by the Romans, the Griechenstaedte been abandoned in their area, and accordingly they had
after the completion of peace in communion with the Brettians himself the task, one after
another to defeat. The Thurin, repeatedly attacked by the commander of Lucan, Stenius Statilius, and
again utmost enjoyments, turned, just like the old Campanians the help of Rome against the
Samnites had been used and undoubtedly for the same price of their freedom and independence,
with the request for assistance against the Lucanians to the Roman Senate. Since the alliance
with these by investing the fortress Venusia for Rome had become unnecessary, granted Roemer
the desire of the Federal Thurin and commanded their friends from the city that the Romans result
had to leave. The Lucanians Brettians and, therefore, more powerful of the allies cheated out of
the portion of the prey community, tied to negotiations with the Samnite-Tarentum opposition
party, a new coalition of the Italians at prevailing bring, and when they left the Romans warned
by an embassy, ​​they put the Messenger caught and began the war against Rome with a new attack on Thurii
(of 469 285), by simultaneously not only the Samnites and the Tarentines, but also the Norditaliker,
the Etruscan, Umbrian, Gauls, calling to unite with them to fight for freedom itself. In Indeed,
rose the Etruscan Confederation and dang many Gallic heap; the Roman Army, the Praetor Lucius
Caecilius led the Arretinern remained faithful to the rescue, was destroyed under the walls of
this city from the senoner mercenaries of the Etruscans, the commander himself fell with 13,000
of his men (470 284). The defendants Senones to Rome's allies: Accordingly, the Romans sent
ambassadors to them to discuss the position of Reislaeufern against Rome lead to action and
to seek the return of the prisoners free.
 His father, who was as much hated by his soldiers as the
son was beloved, was at last, one day, struck by lightning in his tent. The soldiers were inspired
with such a hatred for his memory, in consequence, probably, of the cruelties and oppressions
which they had suffered from him, that they would not allow his body to be honored with the
ordinary funeral obsequies. They pulled it off from the bier on which it was to have been borne
to the funeral pile, and dragged it ignominiously away. Pompey's father was accused, too, after
his death, of having converted some public moneys which had been committed to his charge to
his own use, and Pompey appeared in the Roman Forum as an advocate to defend him from the charge
and to vindicate his memory. He was very successful in this defense. All who heard it were,
in the first instance, very deeply interested in favor of the speaker, on account of his extreme
youth and his personal beauty; and, as he proceeded with his plea, he argued with so much eloquence
and power as to win universal applause. One of the chief officers of the government in the
city was so much pleased with his appearance, and with the promise of future greatness which
the circumstances indicated, that he offered him his daughter in marriage. Pompey accepted
the offer, and married the lady. Her name was Antistia.

[Sidenote: His success as a general.] [Sidenote: Pompey defeats the armies.]

Pompey rose rapidly to higher and higher degrees of distinction, until he obtained the command
of an army, which he had, in fact, in a great measure raised and organized himself, and he
fought at the head of it with great energy and success against the enemies of Sylla. At length
he was hemmed in on the eastern coast of Italy by three separate armies, which were gradually
advancing against him, with a certainty, as they thought, of effecting his destruction. Sylla,
hearing of Pompey's danger, made great efforts to march to his rescue. Before he reached the
place, however, Pompey had met and defeated one after another of the armies of his enemies,
so that, when Sylla approached, Pompey marched out to meet him with his army drawn up in magnificent
array, trumpets sounding and banners flying, and with large bodies of disarmed troops, the
prisoners that he had taken, in the rear. Sylla was struck with surprise and admiration; and
when Pompey saluted him with the title of Imperator, which was the highest title known to the
Roman constitution, and the one which Sylla's lofty rank and unbounded power might properly
claim, Sylla returned the compliment by conferring this great mark of distinction on him.

[Sidenote: His rising fame.] [Sidenote: Pompey's modesty.]

Pompey proceeded to Rome, and the fame of his exploits, the singular fascination of his person
and manners, and the great favor with Sylla that he enjoyed, raised him to a high degree of
distinction. He was not, however, elated with the pride and vanity which so young a man would
be naturally expected to exhibit under such circumstances. He was, on the contrary, modest
and unassuming, and he acted in all respects in such a manner as to gain the approbation and
the kind regard of all who knew him, as well as to excite their applause. There was an old
general at this time in Gaul--for all these events took place long before the time of Caesar's
campaigns in that country, and, in fact, before the commencement of his successful career in
Rome--whose name was Metellus, and who, either on account of his advancing age, or for some
other reason, was very inefficient and unsuccessful in his government. Sylla proposed to supersede
him by sending Pompey to take his place. Pompey replied that it was not right to take the command
from a man who was so much his superior in age and character, but that, if Metellus wished
for his assistance in the management of his command, he would proceed to Gaul and render him
every service in his power. When this answer was reported to Metellus, he wrote to Pompey to
come. Pompey accordingly went to Gaul, where he obtained new victories, and gained new and
higher honors than before.

[Sidenote: An example.] [Sidenote: Pompey divorces his wife.] [Sidenote: He marries Sylla's
daughter-in-law.]

These, and various anecdotes which the ancient historians relate, would lead us to form very
favorable ideas of Pompey's character. Some other circumstances, however, which occurred, seem
to furnish different indications. For example, on his return to Rome, some time after the events
above related, Sylla, whose estimation of Pompey's character and of the importance of his services
seemed continually to increase, wished to connect him with his own family by marriage. He accordingly
proposed that Pompey should divorce his wife Antistia, and marry Aemilia, the daughter-in-law
of Sylla. Aemilia was already the wife of another man, from whom she would have to be taken
away to make her the wife of Pompey. This, however, does not seem to have been thought a very
serious difficulty in the way of the arrangement. Pompey's wife was put away, and the wife
of another man taken in her place. Such a deed was a gross violation not merely of revealed
and written law, but of those universal instincts of right and wrong which are implanted indelibly
in all human hearts. It ended, as might have been expected, most disastrously. Antistia was
plunged, of course, into the deepest distress. Her father had recently lost his life on account
of his supposed attachment to Pompey. Her mother killed herself in the anguish and despair
produced by the misfortunes of her family; and Aemilia the new wife, died suddenly, on the
occasion of the birth of a child, a very short time after her marriage with Pompey.

[Sidenote: Pompey's success in Africa.] [Sidenote: Attachment of his soldiers.] [Sidenote:
Pompey's title as "Great."]

These domestic troubles did not, however, interpose any serious obstacle to Pompey's progress
in his career of greatness and glory. Sylla sent him on one great enterprise after another,
in all of which Pompey acquitted himself in an admirable manner. Among his other campaigns,
he served for some time in Africa with great success. He returned in due time from this expedition,
loaded with military honors. His soldiers had become so much attached to him that there was
almost a mutiny in the army when he was ordered home. They were determined to submit to no
authority but that of Pompey. Pompey at length succeeded, by great efforts, in subduing this
spirit, and bringing back the army to their duty. A false account of the affair, however, went
to Rome. It was reported to Sylla that there was a revolt in the army of Africa, headed by
Pompey himself, who was determined not to resign his command. Sylla was at first very indignant
that his authority should be despised and his power braved, as he expressed it, by "such a
boy;" for Pompey was still, at this time, very young. When, however, he learned the truth,
he conceived a higher admiration for the young general than ever. He went out to meet him as
he approached the city, and, in accosting him, he called him Pompey the Great. Pompey has continued
to bear the title thus given him to the present day.

[Sidenote: He demands a triumph.]

Pompey began, it seems, now to experience, in some degree, the usual effects produced upon
the human heart by celebrity and praise. He demanded a triumph. A triumph was a great and splendid
ceremony, by which victorious generals, who were of advanced age and high civil or military
rank, were received into the city when returning from any specially glorious campaign. There
was a grand procession formed on these occasions, in which various emblems and insignia, and
trophies of victory, and captives taken by the conqueror, were displayed. This great procession
entered the city with bands of music accompanying it, and flags and banners flying, passing
under triumphal arches erected along the way. Triumphs were usually decreed by a vote of the
Senate, in cases where they were deserved; but, in this case, Sylla's power as dictator was
supreme, and Pompey's demand for a triumph seems to have been addressed accordingly to him.

[Sidenote: Sylla refuses Pompey a triumph.]

Sylla refused it. Pompey's performances in the African campaign had been, he admitted, very
creditable to him, but he had neither the Age nor the rank to justify the granting him a triumph.
To bestow such an honor upon one so young and in such a station, would only bring the honor
itself, he said, into disrepute, and degrade, also, his dictatorship for suffering it.

[Sidenote: But at last consents.]

To this Pompey replied, speaking, however, in an under tone to those around him in the assembly,
that Sylla need not fear that the triumph would be unpopular, for people were much more disposed
to worship a rising than a setting sun. Sylla did not hear this remark, but, perceiving by
the countenances of the by-standers that Pompey had said something which seemed to please them,
he asked what it was. When the remark was repeated to him, he seemed pleased himself with its
justness or with its wit, and said, "Let him have his triumph."

[Sidenote: Pompey's triumph.]

The arrangements were accordingly made Pompey ordering every thing necessary to be prepared
for a most magnificent procession. He learned that some persons in the city, envious at his
early renown, were displeased with his triumph; this only awakened in him a determination to
make it still more splendid and imposing. He had brought some elephants with him from Africa,
and he formed a plan for having the car in which he was to ride in the procession drawn by
four of these huge beasts as it entered the city; but, on measuring the gate, it was found
not wide enough to admit such a team, and the plan was accordingly abandoned. The conqueror's
car was drawn by horses in the usual manner, and the elephants followed singly, with the other
trophies, to grace the train.

[Sidenote: His course of conduct at Rome.]

Pompey remained some time after this in Rome, sustaining from time to time various offices
of dignity and honor. His services were often called for to plead causes in the Forum, and
he performed this duty, whenever he undertook it, with great success. He, however, seemed generally
inclined to retire somewhat from intimate intercourse with the mass of the community, knowing
very well that if he was engaged often in the discussion of common questions with ordinary
men, he should soon descend in public estimation from the high position to which his military
renown had raised him. He accordingly accustomed himself to appear but little in public, and,
when he did so appear, he was generally accompanied by a large retinue of armed attendants,
at the head of which he moved about the city in great state, more like a victorious general
in a conquered province than like a peaceful citizen exercising ordinary official functions
in a community governed by law. This was a very sagacious course, so far as concerned the attainment
of the great objects of future ambition. Pompey knew very well that occasions would probably
arise in which he could act far more effectually for the promotion of his own greatness and
fame than by mingling in the ordinary municipal contests of the city.

[Sidenote: The Cilician pirates.] [Sidenote: Their increasing depredations.] [Sidenote: Ships
and fortresses of the Cilicians.] [Sidenote: Their conquests.]

At length, in fact, an occasion came. In the year B.C. 67, which was about the time that Caesar
commenced his successful career in rising to public office in Rome, as is described in the
third chapter of this volume, the Cilician pirates, of whose desperate character and bold exploits
something has already been said, had become so powerful, and were increasing so rapidly in
the extent of their depredations, that the Roman people felt compelled to adopt some very vigorous
measures for suppressing them. The pirates had increased in numbers during the wars between
Marius and Sylla in a very alarming degree. They had built, equipped, and organized whole fleets.
They had various fortresses, arsenals, ports, and watch-towers all along the coasts of the
Mediterranean. They had also extensive warehouses, built in secure and secluded places, where
they stored their plunder. Their fleets were well manned, and provided with skillful pilots,
and with ample supplies of every kind; and they were so well constructed, both for speed and
safety, that no other ships could be made to surpass them. Many of them, too, were adorned
and decorated in the most sumptuous manner, with gilded sterns, purple awnings, and silver-mounted
oars. The number of their galleys was said to be a thousand. With this force they made themselves
almost complete masters of the sea. They attacked not only separate ships, but whole fleets
of merchantmen sailing under convoy; and they increased the difficulty and expense of bringing
grain to Rome so much, by intercepting the supplies, as very materially to enhance the price
and to threaten a scarcity. They made themselves masters of many islands and of various maritime
towns along the coast, until they had four hundred ports and cities in their possession. In
fact, they had gone so far toward forming themselves into a regular maritime power, under a
systematic and legitimate government, that very respectable young men from other countries
began to enter their service, as one opening honorable avenues to wealth and fame. It
is in this context where over the existence or non-gifted and old famous Nations Lose the serious, are
not to be inadmissible to recall that Plato, about sixty years before this time (389) came to
Tarentum, his own testimony, according to the Dionysienfest the whole city looked intoxicated,
and that the parodic farce, the so-called "Funny tragedy created just about the time of the great
Samnite war in Taranto was. This provides economic Lotter and Lotter poetry of Tarentines
elegant and literary to supplement the erratic, high-spirited and short-term policy Tarentines demagogues
who regularly participated as where they had nothing to do, and there stayed away, where their
next interest they hinrief. They had when, after the disaster caudines Roemer and Samnites were
working towards in Apulia, envoys sent there, the two parties offered to lay down their arms (434
320). This diplomatic intervention in the Italian Decisive battle verstaendigerweise could be nothing
but the announcement that Taranto from his previous passivity is now finally decided to step out.
Reason enough It was really about how difficult and dangerous it was for Taranto itself, in
this war to be involved: for the democratic development of the state power had only on the fleet
cast, and during this, based on the strong merchant marine Tarentum, occupied by the great Greek
naval powers was the first place, the land forces, mattered now, much of hired mercenaries
and was in deep decline. In these circumstances it was for the Republic of Tarentum no easy task
in the struggle participate between Rome and Samnium, even apart from the least burdensome Feud,
which engage in the politics of the Roman Tarentines with the agents knew Luca had. However,
with vigorous will have overcome these difficulties well, and both competing parts summarized
the request of Tarentum envoy to meet with the struggle, in this sense. The Samnites as the weaker
were willing to meet them; The Romans responded by attaching the label to the slaughter. Reason
and honor offered the Tarentines, a masterful command of their envoys now declared war against
Rome to follow up on the foot, but was just in Taranto, neither this nor that the regiment and they
had just played there with very serious things very childish. The declaration of war against Rome was
not, instead they would rather help against Agathocles of Syracuse, the earlier had been in Tarentum
services and been dismissed in disgrace, was the oligarchic Staedtepartei in Sicily, and sent,
following the example of Sparta, a Fleet to the island, who have done in the Campanian sea would
better serve (440 314). Vigorously negotiated the northern and central Italian peoples, including
through the Establishment of the fortress Luceria seem to have been awoken. First (443 311) suggested
The Etruscans go to their cease-fire agreement of 403 (351) several years earlier to End was
gone. The Roman frontier fortress Sutrium had to endure two years in a siege, and in the fierce
battles that came under its walls, the Romans moved in usually the shorter, until the consul
of 444 (310), Quintus Fabius Rullianus, a in the Samnitenkriegen proven leader, not only in
the Roman Etruria, the preponderance the Roman arms restored, but also penetrated into the actual
kuehn by the diversity of language and the low communication to the Romans until then almost
remained unknown Etruscan country. The train over the still exceeded by any Roman army Cimini forest
and the plunder of the rich, long spared from disaster of war remained Terrain caused quite
Etruria in arms, the Roman government, which the boldest expedition seriously disapproved and
prohibited the limit is exceeded, the daring leader of the late had gathered to meet the expected
onslaught of the entire Etruscan power in speediest Hurry new legions together. But a timely
and decisive victory of Rullianus, long in the memory of the people living on Battle of Lake
Vadimone made from the careless Start a celebrated feat, breaking the resistance of the Etruscans. Unequal
the Samnites, which is now challenged since the age of eighteen the unequal struggle condescended
to after the first defeat of three of the most powerful Etruscan cities, Perusia, Cortona Arretium
and, to a separate peace to three hundred (444 310) and after the following year the Romans had once
again defeated at some beautiful views of the rest Etruscans, the Tarquinienser a peace to four hundred
months (446 308), whereupon the remaining cities of the struggle distance and in Etruria temporary
cease occurred. While these events had Samnium in the war is not rested. The campaign of 443
(311) is limited, like the recent the siege and storming of individual Samnite places, but in the
next few years The war took a livelier turn. Rullianus' dangerous situation in Etruria and over
the destruction of the Roman Army of the North spread rumors encouraged the Samnites to new efforts,
the Roman Consul Gaius Marcius Rutilus was defeated by them and himself severely wounded. But
the swing of things in Etruria destroyed the new flashing Hopes. Lucius stepped back Papirius cursor
to the top of the sent against the Samnites Roman troops, and again he was victorious in a great
and decisive battle (445 309) which had been brought to the Confederates, their last strength,
the core of their army; the Buntroecke with the gold, the Weissroecke with the silver shields were wiped
out here and the shining armor of the same since then decorated on festive occasions Bude
series along the Roman market. More and higher rose the need, increasingly hopeless became the
battle. In the following year (446 308) laid down their weapons, the Etruscans, in the very
same led to the last city of Campania, which was still among the Samnites, Nuceria to water
and The country attacked simultaneously, under favorable conditions, the Romans. Although found The
Samnites new ally in the Umbrian people in the northern, the Marsi and Paelignern in central
Italy, and even by the Hernik numerous volunteers were in their ranks; but what with decisive
weight into the balance against Rome would have to fall if The Etruscans would have still been under
arms, now only increased the success of the Roman Wins, more difficult to seriously without
it. The Umbrian, the mine, made a train to to take Rome, Rullianus moved to the upper Tiber River
with the army of Samnium off without that it can prevent the Samnites would have weakened,
and this was enough to the Umbrian Land storm to dissipate. The war dragged on then back to central
Italy. The Paeligner were defeated, as is the Marsi, although the rest Sabellian tribes in name
remained after enemies of the Romans, but was gradually Samnium actually from this site alone.
But unexpectedly their assistance came from the Tiber River area. The Confederation of Hernici,
Samnite among the prisoners because of their compatriots found by the Romans to Speech made, explained
that now the war (448 306) - probably more out of desperation, as from calculation. It also closed
some of the most important Hernik communities from the outset from the warfare, but Anagnia, by far
the most considerable Hernikerstadt sat by the declaration of war. Militarily was, however, the
present situation of the Romans by this unexpected revolt in the rear of the siege of the castles
of Samnium Army personnel employed highly questionable. Only once was the Samnites the Kriegsglueck
cheap; Sora and Caiatia fell into their hands. But the subject unexpectedly Anagnina quickly
sent out the troops from Rome, and made this time also in the Samnium standing army, air, and
it had just lost everything. The Samnites sued for peace, however, in vain; still could not
agree. First, the campaign of 449 (305) brought the final decision. The two Roman Konsularheere invaded,
Tiberius Minucius and after its fall Marcus Fulvius of Campania from the mountain passes,
Lucius Postumius of Adriatic ago on Biferno up in a Samnium to here from the capital of the
country Bovianum, the Hand to hand, a decisive victory was gained, the Samnite commander Statius
Gellius captured and Bovianum stormed. The case of the main training base of the landscape was
zweiundzwanzigjaehrigen the war to an end. The Samnites came out of Sora and their crews Arpinum
out and sent ambassadors to Rome to seek peace, their example was followed by the Sabellian
tribes, the Marsi, Marrucini, Paeligner, Frentani, Vestini, Picentes. The Conditions that Rome
granted at all, tolerable, but demanded territorial concessions were single; For example, the Paelignern,
but very important they do not seem to have been. The same alliance between the Sabellian States
and the Romans was renewed (450 304). Probably about the same time and probably was also a result
of the Samnite peace peace made between Rome and Taranto. Although both cities were not directly against
each other stood in the field, the Tarentines had a long struggle between Rome and the beginning
of Samnium stood idly by until the end and only in league with the allies against the Sallentinern
Rome, the Lucan, the feud continued. Although they had in the last years of the Samnite War
once again face made to appear more aggressive. Part of the difficult situation, in which the incessant
American attacks luca they brought themselves, some probably the getting closer to them insistent
feeling that their Samnium complete suppression threatening their own independence, they had determined,
in spite of past with Alexander unpleasant Experience again a condottiere to trust. It came
to her call the Spartan Prince Kleonymos with five thousand mercenaries, which he is just as
strong, recruited in Italy And the crowd plus the Messapians, the smaller Griechenstaedte and especially
the Tarentum Citizen army, 22 000 men strong, united. forced at the head of considerable army
he make the Lucan, peace with Tarentum and to create a Samnite minded government while admittedly
Metapontum was sacrificed to them. Still, the Samnites were under arms, as this was done, nothing
prevented the Spartans to come to their aid and the weight of strong army, and his art of
war for the freedom of the Italian cities and peoples throw in the pan. Taranto did not act alone,
such as Rome acted in the same case would have, and Prince Kleonymos itself was nothing less
than an Alexander or a Pyrrhus. He was in no hurry to start a war is unlikely that the more blows
stood as prey, but rather made with the Lucanians common cause against Metapontum and let
himself be so, while he was speaking from a train in this city against Agathocles of Syracuse
and the liberation of the Sicilian Greeks. About that because the Samnites Peace, and when after
the end of Rome began in earnest to the southeast of the peninsula troubling and, for example in the
year 447 (307) a Roman armies to the field of Sallentiner sacked or rather well reconnoitred in
higher order, was the Spartan Condotti with his mercenaries to ship and rumbled over the island
of Corfu, the excellent was located, from there to take action against Greece and Italy Piratenzuege.
So of their captain abandoned, while their allies in central Italy deprived of the Tarentines
remained allied with them and the Italians, the leaders and Luca Sallentinern, now of course no
choice but to seek an agreement with Rome, which on tolerable conditions seems to have been granted.
Soon afterward (451 303) was even a Incidence of Kleonymos, who had landed in the area and sallentinischen
Uria, besieged by the Inhabitants repulsed with Roman help. Rome's victory was complete, and
completely he was used. That the Samnites, the Tarentines and also resident tribes of at all so
moderate conditions were made was not Siegergrossmut that the Romans did not know but clever
and clear calculation. First and foremost it was important not so much to southern Italy as
soon as possible to the formal recognition of the Roman Supremacy than to force the surrender of
central Italy, to which the Campania Puglia and even during the last war applied Militaerstrassen
and fortresses Foundation of the, extent and to complete and the northern and southern Italians
by militarily in two out of any direct contact with each cut Auseinanderzusprengen masses. This is
the aim for the next things to the Romans with energetic consequence. Above all, used or made,
the opportunity to the Tiber in the landscape once again with the Roman power rival, and even individual
not clean up completely eliminated and the confederacies of Aequi Hernici. In the same year in which
the peace was concluded with Samnium (450 304), overlaid the Consul Publius Sempronius Sophus
Aequi with the war, in forty villages submitted to fifty Days, the entire area with the exception
of the narrow and rugged mountain valley, which is still the old Common names carries (Cicolano),
became a Roman possession and here at the northern edge of the lake Fucine Founded in the
year to the fortress of Alba, with a crew of 6,000 men, then on the facing against the warlike
Mars and the stronghold of central Italy, just two years later on upper Turano, closer to Rome,
Carsioli, both as a federal municipalities Latin rights. That of the least Hernik Anagnia
part in the final stage of the Samnite War had had the desired base to solve the old Bundesverhaeltnis.
The fate of the Anagnina natuerlicherweise was harder by far than that which a generation before
the Latin communities in the same case had been prepared. They did not merely how these liabilities
the Roman civil rights put up, but lost the same the Caeriten own administration, on a part of their
area at the top Trerus (Sacco) Besides this, a new mayor and district at the same time, another
set at the lower anion (455 299). It was only sorry that the next three most important Anagnia
Hernik communities Aletrium, Verulae Ferentinum and were not dropped, for the suggestion because
she voluntarily in the Roman citizens association advocate, politely refused, and any excuse,
they do necessary to lack, you had them well not only the autonomy, but even the Right of the
Diet and the community of marriage concede even further and thus even a shadow Hernik the
old Confederation to be desired. In the part of Volscian landscape, which until then had held
the Samnites, did not bind similar Ruecksichten. Here were Arpinum Frusino and submissive,
and the latter city a third of its field marks robbed, and also on the upper Liris next Fregellae
already occupied with earlier occupation Volskerstadt Sora now turns to the duration in a Latin
fortress and a legion of 4,000 men down there. That was the old Volskergebiet subject completely
and went his Romanization forward with quick steps. deposited in the landscape, which Samnium
and Etruria, were two Militaerstrassen ushered in and both secured by fortresses. The northern, from
was later the Flamin, covered the Tiber line, it runs the alliance with Rome Ocriculum to
Narnia, as umnannten the Romans, the ancient Umbrian festivals Nequinum, as they there creates
a Militaerkolonie (455 299). The southern, that later was Valerian, Fucine the lake just mentioned
about the forts Carsioli and Alba. The small tribes of, in whose territory such facilities
can be found, the Umbrian, the Nequinum defended stubbornly, the Aequi that again Alba, the
Marsi, broke into the Carsioli could, in his Rome Gang not stop, almost unhindered pushed those
two mighty bolt between Samnium and Etruria. The big roads and fortifications to the permanent
protection of Puglia and was mainly Campania beginning to think and succeed Samnium was further
to the east and West of the Roman fortress knitted net. Significant for the relatively Etruria weakness
is that it was not necessary, the passes through the Cimini Forest in the same way to ensure a proper
road and forts. The previous Border fortress Sutrium was here also the end point of the Roman Militaerlinie
and you contented themselves with the road from there to get at Arretium by communities in to
have militarily usable withstand ^ 4 ------------------------------------------------ ^ 4
The operations in the campaign of 537 (217) and certain still the system of road from Arretium to
show Bononia 567 (187) that, under prior to that time the road from Rome Arretium repair has been
set. But a Roman Militaerchaussee they can in this Time not yet been, since, after its subsequent
designation of the "road Cassischen" to close, as can be created via Consularis not earlier
than 583 (171), for between Spurius Cassius, consul 252, 261, 268 (502, 493, 486), are not the intended
course may, and Gaius Cassius Longinus, consul 583 (171), does not appear in the Roman Cassier
Consuls and censors lists. ----------------------------------------------- The generous Samnite nation
understood it, that such a peace was more destructive than the most pernicious War, and what's
more, they acted accordingly. Just started in northern Italy by the Celts after a long Ceasefire
again to stir, yet there were also some Etruscan communities against the Romans under arms and short
changed here Waffenstillstaende with severe but unsuccessful battles. Nor was the whole of
central Italy in fermentation and partly in open Uprising, nor were the strongholds in the
system understand the path between Etruria and Samnium not completely blocked. Maybe it was not too late
to save freedom; but we could not delay: the increased difficulty of the attack, the power of
the attacker decreased with each year of the renewed peace. Scarcely five years had their arms
rested and still had to bleed all the wounds which the war zweiundzwanzigjaehrige the peasantry
Samnium had struck, when in the year 456 (298) the Samnite Confederation, to combat renewed. The
last war had much Lucania connection with Rome and the resulting mitveranlasste traffic away
from Tarentum in favor of Rome decided, therefore taught that threw Samnites now first and
foremost, with a vengeance on the Lucanians and brought here, in fact, her party to power and
an alliance between Samnium and Lucania completed.
 At last an exciting debate was broken
up in the Senate by one of the consuls rising to depart, saying that he would hear the subject
discussed no longer. The time had arrived for action, and he should send a commander, with
an armed force, to defend the country from Caesar's threatened invasion. Caesar's leading friends,
two tribunes of the people, disguised themselves as slaves, and fled to the north to join their
master. The country was filled with commotion and panic. The Commonwealth had obviously more
fear of Caesar than confidence in Pompey. The country was full of rumors in respect to Caesar's
power, and the threatening attitude which he was assuming, while they who had insisted on resistance
seemed, after all, to have provided very inadequate means with which to resist. A thousand
plans were formed, and clamorously insisted upon by their respective advocates, for averting
the danger. This only added to the confusion, and the city became at length pervaded with a
universal terror.

[Sidenote: Caesar at Ravenna.]

While this was the state of things at Rome, Caesar was quietly established at Ravenna; thirty
or forty miles from the frontier. He was erecting a building for a fencing school there and
his mind seemed to be occupied very busily with the plans and models of the edifice which the
architects had formed. Of course, in his intended march to Rome, his reliance was not to be
so much on the force which he should take with him, as on the co-operation and support which
he expected to find there. It was his policy, therefore, to move as quietly and privately as
possible, and with as little display of violence, and to avoid every thing which might indicate
his intended march to any spies which might be around him, or to any other person! who might
be disposed to report what they observed at Rome. Accordingly, on the very eve of his departure,
he busied himself with his fencing school, and assumed with his officers and soldiers a careless
and unconcerned air, which prevented any one from suspecting his design.

[Sidenote: Caesar's midnight march.] [Sidenote: He loses his way.]

In the course of the day he privately sent forward some cohorts to the southward, with orders
for them to encamp on the banks of the Rubicon. When night came he sat down to supper as usual,
and conversed with his friends in his ordinary manner, and went with them afterward to a public
entertainment. As soon as it was dark and the streets were still, he set off secretly from
the city, accompanied by a very few attendants. Instead of making use of his ordinary equipage,
the parading of which would have attracted attention to his movements, he had some mules taken
from a neighboring bake-house, and harnessed into his chaise. There were torch-bearers provided
to light the way. The cavalcade drove on during the night, finding, however, the hasty preparations
which had been made inadequate for the occasion. The torches went out, the guides lost their
way, and the future conqueror of the world wandered about bewildered and lost, until, just
after break of day, the party met with a peasant who undertook to guide them. But if he is on the size of Vesta, he
must if he wants to raise the sea 8000 feet ascended to be, 86 miles, and he kind hinanfluthen
will be 32.000 feet, you come close to 34 miles. If but a world body to near our homes, he would
be forced WOL by him, to unite with him, to increase its land mass by it.

As far as finally finding and digging up the large land animals in our region, I must also remark
before, that Cuvier and other great naturalists arguable, that have the animals there, where their
remains are found, even gehauset. But if this in our region and in those who are with ours
in a same zone, should have been to have lived, it must be our latest hot zone one to the quantity
of these large The animals have proper nourishment to be able to give.

How is this to become a moderate? Has about the heat of the earth in general reduced, making
our areas have become colder? Or does the Earth's axis to another Position to get out of the
sun, which has become our temperate zone?

All of these questions, like several I might add, as well as those who have been placed at
the very beginning of the training type of earth from me, let be resolved by the Aufstürze the world
masses to our world the best and most satisfying. For by the fall of such a low mass, only
on the size of Vesta, had to Rock masses of the earth where they fell down and dismantle, tossed and
piled one above the other be, so therefore these masses all the above-mentioned principles and positions
against each other have received and had obtained, and thereby also between them, since they
do not all are too close to each other, and close to standing by each other come, could hollow
curves formed, which later aufgelöseten with another rock mass, as hers was, by the tide out
there, in part, been completed, are in part but remained empty.

And since when approaching such a world of mass, the sea rise to it ascended through the highest
mountain waves there, and at the same low fall again pushed aside, and had hinabfluthen to
the sides, so also had the highest crags, where the Sea was hingefluthet who remain residents
of the same here and there, are liable, where even those has found, and the sea itself had, as soon
as it had very little rest, he mixed in his Parts drop, and therefore, the coatings of the
limestone formation of the second , Why are all the only seasoned corners and sides of the
shattered rock masses with the stated limestone mountains are coated.

But if such an extent that only the Vesta is, creating a mountain, like the Andes, which is 1700
miles long, wol could have been formed, cast out into the earth's surface would be, so the focus
had changed the world, and countries that were hot, like ours, be remodeled in moderate, although
the direction of the axis of the earth against the sun's body had to remain unchanged as the
revolution of Earth around the same, after the morning of evening in a direction of 23 degrees
from the plane of its orbit always goes away, not on the size their mass, but from the first
kick or swing, which they in their emergence has received depends. Therefore, most likely the
direction of the Earth's axis in all the major changes have remained unchanged, except that
the north is not in the same over the earth points, over which he
was against any kind of major change are allowed to stay, but has
won every major Aufsturz a new ground point.

What is this hypothesis, all of those questions satisfactorily answered established, and the destruction
of forests, mountains and cities by the collapse of the deep caves, which they have been a
least as beautiful states opposes excellent, is the flattened Shape
of the earth at its poles, which she got from its inception because
its parts are still soft were obtained by the revolution on its axis
has, and which it now has.

If, however, turned the earth by the Aufsturz of such a world body in something so that the then-hot
area, so the caught up ours, to the North Pole was the same would be, as it is then possible
that the position of the shape of the earth has remained as in the beginning was and still is?
Considering, however, that the revolution of Earth around its axis, the Parts of it in the middle,
where the equator is collected, and those from the sides, the is from the poles, so here it
is flattened, have drawn there, like a soft Thonkugel that is stuck on a stick and tossed around,
stands in the middle abplattet and on the sides, then also had the sea after the bulk of the
world Aufsturz happen on the earth was to bring under the new equator, are not serious and large
rock masses then, carry, and he mixed in his part here in greater Size, can fall as at the poles, which
are therefore new and higher layers below it, have made as at the poles, and using the same
could not be more to come in peace until the proper balance of the
parts at the equator with was there at the poles.

Furthermore, if the earth would have kept their first form, it would have under the laws of be
universal gravitation, a regular body, and the southern hemisphere would have, in respect of
gravity, the same northern completely. But since not this is the case, how to get out the pendulum
experiments white, so some must be an important cause to be there,
which they changed added, and this is and no other than a mass Aufsturz
a world of their northern his half, which was only just a greater
severity of this hemisphere are produced.

Because after by the late Councillor Klügel laboriously employed accurate calculation of the true
shape of the earth, according to the different degrees to happen to her measurements, the same,
suitable for the present state of poles in any way to a regular body wanted, so he took her other
items on the location of their poles, and found that if the Area under the Cape of Good Hope hindrehen
to the south pole or the same here embarrassed, and the North Pole in the quiet sea, about 40 degrees
from the current North Pole away would move the earth then was be a perfect ellipsoid. It is
therefore most likely this state of Earth's poles, the first in the formation of its first form was,
and therefore the whole of the northern temperate zone and their areas and our position under
the hot climates have had, so therefore this latest one was hot,
and what position it only through the Aufsturz a world of mass lost
to the earth.

See: expansions of the earth, in astronomical collections + III +
164-169 and Malte Brun's. Outline of the mathematical and physical
geography first Division of v. Carpenter, with explanations published,
page 92

In this manner, therefore, I believe, not just the current
shape of the earth To explain but all the other previously mentioned
natural phenomena in and on Earth have been explained by belonging.

Of all these great changes, which has suffered the Earth's surface,
but appears have not experienced the present human race, because we
in the great quantity of remains the land animals, the part below
the posthumous mud of floods, and partly in rock masses are buried,
not remains of human bones and no fossils of same, which, in the last
great Aufsturz, thereby Mammuthsthiere, rhinos and other large animals,
the species in part no longer in our now living organic creation was
to be found, partly in warmer Erdtheilen life destroyed, are with
had been destroyed, see.

For the example of a fossilized human skeletons of Guadeloupe, is in for the detailed investigation
of Mr. Councillor Blumenbach of Göttingen, a product that is of no Präadamiten but most likely by
a Caribs resulting [A]. More striking is that the many people who sowol by great waves of the East,
have been killed as well as by the Occident [B], no remains be found, of which most probably
the easier dissolution of the lime of their bone through the water is the cause.

[Note A: Gilbert's Annalen der Physik Bd 22nd Page 177]

[Note B: See my "General presentation of the surface World body and its sun area, "p. 45]

In this way, therefore, is our home by Aufstürze formed of worlds, which in his Inside caves have
been created which is filled by more and more water, thereby their space more and more enlarged,
made of thin layers of earth, and she collapses to the last have brought [A], which therefore gone
some area of ​​the earth's surface, and with a specially prominent
lake has been designated.

  According to these Aufstürzen of worlds administered on the last
hand cannon floods and earth to their training, have spilled some
areas, they lowered down deeper, and again the cities of Shores of
the sea separated by alluvial soil masses, and low-lying forests Erdschutte
covered.

  
  

[Note A: for example, was in 1618 25 August, the city Plur Cleven in the landscape of the Grisons
with 2000 people got rid of a mountain to pieces basically directed, and had a large lake to its
name after himself. In 1702 the 5. Feb. sank Edelhof at Frederick Hall in Norway, Mountains called
down 600 feet into the ground, with 14 people and 200 pieces Cattle lost their lives, leaving
a swamp 300-400 Ellen long and half as wide, to be back. The island at Pontiio Negroponte sank
in the Aegean Sea, with many others in their Neighborhood lying in the year 1758, without any signs
of least Earthquake, down under the flood of water. And in 1763 the 1. Sept. is a piece of
land from the island of Banda Neira 5 miles Extent, sunk down with people and livestock in the depths
of the earth.

  Just as mountains are brought down and have to be cities and Villages
  buried. Started collapsing in 1714, 14 Sept. a part Diablerets in
  the mountain suddenly sub-Wallis one, whereby 55 Farmhouses buried,
  15 people and more than 100 oxen and Cows were buried under
  the rubble. The wreckage of this mountain some have a room of a
  French square mile taken, and the damage caused by this dust fall in
  such a dark clear sky, that you almost nothing could see. And through
  the resulting masses of rock thrown around Rivers are inhibited
  in their course and to the emergence of new lakes been brought.
  In Italy at Norica to split a portion of a mountain, and sank so deep
  down into the earth, that one string 294 thread did not reach the ground.
  And 24 1765 Junius decreased Monte Piano in Neapolis, the 1 / 10
  square miles in size was so deep into the earth, that we now hardly
  the place yet sees. And among the modern nature scenes of this kind
  is the last which is on 2 occurred Sept. 1806 in Switzerland, one of
  the most curious, where in a period of a few minutes a valley
  which between Zug and Lowerzer Lake from the north side But high
  from the 3500 feet from the south side of Rossberg and the 4400
  feet high Rigiberge was trapped in huge, with mighty crash connected
  torn rock masses of the Rigiberges was destroyed, the village Röthen,
  which in this Thale was, with a portion of the foot of the mountain
  in the depth of the Earth sank and the other three villages Glogau,
  and Busingen a part of Lowerz that except that there were still
  here were buried, with 87 and 60 for all farm goods only part set,
  and 484 people, 170 oxen and 103 pieces been goat, etc under the rubble
  that buried rock mass are. See Bergmann's Physical Description of
  the globe, Delametherie's theory of the Earth 2 Thl. and Zach's
  Monthly. Correspondence. 15. Bd]
  
  So everything is subject to the great God's world a constant change,
  the seed fair place, lifts ascend to the tree, and goes when he has
  accomplished its purpose, to Earth in order to expand its resolved
  part of nature and rejuvenate - and pass away so also worlds for
  rejuvenation and celebration of the great creation!
  
  Additive.
  
  Such a horrible full terrestrial revolutions, is as mentioned earlier,
  has the present human race, when we set up the existence of 2
  to 3000 years before Christ, with which Times our usual story begins,
  not experience, but an older people, Zend or primitive people of
  the world has felt the consequences of the same, as in their holy
  book of the Zend-Avesta cited is [A]. This people has more than
  3000 years on the high plains of Asia, the current Tibet lived,
  and, in the same from there to various parts of our residence spread,
and is particularly sought to acquire knowledge of astronomy, as in
the Remnants of them, which are found in the offspring of them, in
the clearest erhellet, where as the length of the solar year of 365
days [B] - calculating the moon and solar eclipses with the Brahmins
of the Indians [C] - the recording of the conjunction 4 planets in
the year 2449 BC the Chinese birth - the knowledge of ancient Sweden
on the length of the solar year of 365 ¼ days back 2,300 BC & c. belong.

For after the great revolution, which of the nine monthly summer turned into a nine-month winter
was spread out in all areas Diess primitive people on earth. A portion went to the East and
founded the Chinese Empire, another to the west, from which Abraham, of his God in the fire
ladies descended, a part of the southwest, from which the Egyptians
their Origin have taken, and a portion to the south, from which descended
the Persians.

[Note A: This sacred word of the parser or the Zend-Avesta, which in the Zend or original language
of the peoples of the earth written bestehet is, in 21 parts, of which the Vendidad still quite
exist, and in which the rules for all public and private acts of worship, sacrifice and the
frequent Cleaners are recorded. Of the remaining 20 parts only fragments because that loud solemn
prayers and hymns, as a day before the holy fire of worship of all beings should be carried out, included.
This heading includes the Jeschts or the broken fragments of larger Zendschriften, which is
full of solemn invocations, and our pericope, the New Testament are taken from the, same.

This Zend-Avesta, or sacred word in the Zend is written from which the summary and Pohl Parsee
language descended, and to this day by the priests of that Nations must be studied and learned to
the hymns in such and singing praises to the supreme being from that book to may be, of Anquetil
du Perron in the French and Kleuker been translated into German.

As in 1723 some parts of this book came to England, it was not a scholar there to find only a
syllable or would have the same point can decipher. This, induced the fiery and for new knowledge
languishing youth Anquetil du Perron to the bold with many dangers
and difficulties Joined resolve, to rush to the countries and the
places seek, where he Zend-Avesta, or sacred, living Word might know
of Zoroaster from the original sources themselves learn.

  In this view, he looked for his body to the utmost to harden, just
  gave him cheese, milk and water for food, and slept at night on a
  mattress without spring beds. And because all the promised to support
  his forthcoming trip to long, he left as a common soldier of the Company
  to the list of Recruit and enroll, in November 1754 to the East from.
  Before he embarked, he received a pension from the king of 500 livres,
  the Company gave him the free trip, and when he arrived at Pondicherry,
  it certain that a considerable Support. With the liveliest enthusiasm,
  he pursued now his intention durchreisete, on foot and in various
  Directions acquired a large portion of the peninsula, many important
  language skills, and made the acquaintance of Surat with two Indian
  law scholar, took lessons in both sacred languages ​​and Zend Pohlri,
and it brought partly by cunning, partly by force then sending them
their secrets, and even Zoroaster's holy books ablockte.

  With these and many other Manuscripts in almost all languages ​​of
  India in 1761 after he came Europe traveled, first to Oxford, to
  his manuscripts that contain compare to the university there, and because
  of his Homeland, where he was part of his treasures literärischen royal.
  Library donated. He now lived in Paris as French interpreter for
  the Oriental languages, was Member of the Academy of Inscriptions
  and in his last years also of the National Institute, which he did
a few months before his Death of dissatisfaction with the then situation
of political Affairs, left.

  He died in 1805 in the 74th Years his age.]
  
  [Note B: Noah was just 365 days in his ark to this Length of the
  year his offspring, it seems important to Which make it obtained as
  a sanctuary from his ancestors, ladies.]
  
  [Note C: The Brahmins do not know a time like this Phenomena occur,
  thereby believe the sun is nearer to us than the moon. The formulas
  for the calculations are wrapped in verses which they repeat it and
  they probably do not have invented, but received from their
  ancestors. My page little work "over" the primitive people of
  the earth.]
  
  In this holy book that is cited, "that a natural enemy," which later
  Dragon Star or comet is called, "come from the south and then moved
  over the earth, be and that he had the same wish to destroy [A].
  In the south it totally devastated the earth; all has been
  associated with blackness, like a night, covered. Scorching water
  fell on the trees down, which at the moment withered and burnt
  up to the root. The earth itself was burned, and there was hardly
  any. But still kept the sun and moon run their course. Against
  the planet fighting the natural enemy "terrible (which probably
  means nothing more than he did they are invisible) "and wanted the world
  to bring destruction, and clouds of smoke rose from the fires up
  everywhere. Ninety days and ninety nights took this fight. Then,
  the Natural enemy beaten and thrown back. Lightning came down
  from heaven now, and drops of enormous size fell to the ground and
  covered his head-high water the whole earth. "
  
  [Note A: Bun-Dehesch + VII + and Rhode the beginning of our
  History and the last revolution of the earth. P. 17 18th]
  
  The Zend or primitive people lived at that time in Eerie-ene [A], that
  is, in the acclaimed, happy Eerie and Ari, his Urland happy,
  because there was always summer. But suddenly broke (As an effect
  of the natural enemy) of the winter in the world, which was initially
the least and only Lasted five months, so the summer was 7 months.

  But soon it grew to 10 months ascended, and only two were left for
  the summer (as is now in Tibet and in the Highlands Asia is the
  case at all). Now left the agriculture-loving people have high mountainous
  Urland, and went down to lower, warmer countries.

  
Caesar became impatient at the delay of that portion of his army that he had left on the Italian
shore. The messages of encouragement and of urgency which he sent across to them did not bring
them over, and at length, one dark and stormy night, when he thought that the inclemency of
the skies and the heavy surging of the swell in the offing would drive his vigilant enemies
into places of shelter, and put them off their guard, he determined to cross the sea himself
and bring his hesitating army over. He ordered a galley to be prepared, and went on board of
it disguised, and with his head muffled in his mantle, intending that not even the officers
or crew of the ship which was to convey him should know of his design. The galley, in obedience
to orders, put off from the shore. The mariners endeavored in vain for some time to make head
against the violence of the wind and the heavy concussions of the waves, and at length, terrified
at the imminence of the danger to which so wild and tumultuous a sea on such a night exposed
them, refused to proceed, and the commander gave them orders to return. Caesar then came forward,
threw off his mantle, and said to them, "Friends! you have nothing to fear. You are carrying
Caesar."

The men were, of course, inspirited anew by this disclosure, but all was in vain. The obstacles
to the passage proved insurmountable, and the galley, to avoid certain destruction, was compelled
to return.

[Sidenote: Caesar lands the remainder of his army.]

The army, however, on the Italian side, hearing of Caesar's attempt to return to them, fruitless
though it was, and stimulated by the renewed urgency of the orders which he now sent to them,
made arrangements at last for an embarkation, and, after encountering great dangers on the
way, succeeded in landing in safety. Caesar, thus strengthened, began to plan more decided
operations for the coming spring.

[Sidenote: Attempts at negotiation.] [Sidenote: Conferences.] [Sidenote: End in violence and
disorder.]

There were some attempts at negotiation. The armies were so exasperated against each other
on account of the privations and hardships which each compelled the other to suffer, that they
felt too strong a mutual distrust to attempt any regular communication by commissioners or
ambassadors appointed for the purpose. They came to a parley, however, in one or two instances,
though the interviews led to no result. As the missiles used in those days were such as could
only be thrown to a very short distance, hostile bodies of men could approach much nearer to
each other then than is possible now, when projectiles of the most terribly destructive character
can be thrown for miles. In one instance, some of the ships of Pompey's fleet approached so
near to the shore as to open a conference with one or two of Caesar's lieutenants who were
encamped there. In another case, two bodies of troops from the respective armies were separated
only by a river, and the officers and soldiers came down to the banks on either side, and held
frequent conversations, calling to each other in loud voices across the water. In this way
they succeeded in so far coming to an agreement as to fix upon a time and place for a more
formal conference, to be held by commissioners chosen on each side. This conference was thus
held, but each party came to it accompanied by a considerable body of attendants, and these,
as might have been anticipated, came into open collision while the discussion was pending;
thus the meeting consequently ended in violence and disorder, each party accusing the other
of violating the faith which both had plighted.

[Sidenote: Undecided warfare.] [Sidenote: Bread made of roots.]

This slow and undecided mode of warfare between the two vast armies continued for many months
without any decisive results. There were skirmishes, struggles, sieges, blockades, and many
brief and partial conflicts, but no general and decided battle. Now the advantage seemed on
one side, and now on the other. Pompey so hemmed in Caesar's troops at one period, and so cut
off his supplies, that the men were reduced to extreme distress for food. At length they found
a kind of root which they dug from the ground, and, after drying and pulverizing it, they made
a sort of bread of the powder, which the soldiers were willing to eat rather than either starve
or give up the contest. They told Caesar, in fact, that they would live on the bark of trees
rather than abandon his cause. Pompey's soldiers, at one time, coming near to the walls of
a town which they occupied, taunted and jeered them on account of their wretched destitution
of food. Caesar's soldiers threw loaves of this bread at them in return, by way of symbol that
they were abundantly supplied.

[Sidenote: Caesar hems Pompey in.] [Sidenote: Anxiety of the rivals.]

After some time the tide of fortune turned Caesar contrived, by a succession of adroit maneuvers
and movements, to escape from his toils, and to circumvent and surround Pompey's forces so
as soon to make them suffer destitution and distress in their turn. He cut off all communication
between them and the country at large, and turned away the brooks and streams from flowing
through the ground they occupied. An army of forty or fifty thousand men, with the immense
number of horses and beasts of burden which accompany them, require very large supplies of
water, and any destitution or even scarcity of water leads immediately to the most dreadful
consequences. Pompey's troops dug wells, but they obtained only very insufficient supplies.
Great numbers of beasts of burden died, and their decaying bodies so tainted the air as to
produce epidemic diseases, which destroyed many of the troops, and depressed and disheartened
those whom they did not destroy.

[Sidenote: Nature of the contest between Caesar and Pompey.] [Sidenote: Both hesitate.]

During all these operations there was no decisive general battle. Each one of the great rivals
knew very well that his defeat in one general battle would be his utter and irretrievable ruin.
In a war between two independent nations, a single victory, however complete, seldom terminates
the struggle, for the defeated party has the resources of a whole realm to fall back upon,
which are sometimes called forth with renewed vigor after experiencing such reverses; and then
defeat in such cases, even if it be final, does not necessarily involve the ruin of the unsuccessful
commander. He may negotiate an honorable peace, and return to his own land in safety; and,
if his misfortunes are considered by his countrymen as owing not to any dereliction from his
duty as a soldier, but to the influence of adverse circumstances which no human skill or resolution
could have controlled, he may spend the remainder of his days in prosperity and honor. The
contest, however, between Caesar and Pompey was not of this character. One or the other of
them was a traitor and a usurper--an enemy to his country. The result of a battle would decide
which of the two was to stand in this attitude. Victory would legitimize and confirm the authority
of one, and make it supreme over the whole civilized world. Defeat was to annihilate the power
of the other, and make him a fugitive and a vagabond, without friends, without home, without
country. It was a desperate stake; and it is not at all surprising that both parties lingered
and hesitated, and postponed the throwing of the die.

[Sidenote: The armies enter Thessaly.]

At length Pompey, rendered desperate by the urgency of the destitution and distress into which
Caesar had shut him, made a series of rigorous and successful attacks upon Caesar's lines,
by which he broke away in his turn from his enemy's grasp, and the two armies moved slowly
back into the interior of the country, hovering in the vicinity of each other, like birds of
prey contending in the air, each continually striking at the other, and moving onward at the
same time to gain some position of advantage, or to circumvent the other in such a design.
They passed on in this manner over plains, and across rivers, and through mountain passes,
until at length they reached the heart of Thessaly. Here at last the armies came to a stand
and fought the final battle.

[Sidenote: The plain of Pharsalia.] [Sidenote: Roman standard bearers.] [Sidenote: Pompey draws
up his army.] [Sidenote: Forces on both sides.]

The place was known then as the plain of Pharsalia, and the greatness of the contest which
was decided there has immortalized its name. Pompey's forces were far more numerous than those
of Caesar, and the advantage in all the partial contests which had taken place for some time
had been on his side; he felt, consequently, sure of victory. He drew up his men in a line,
one flank resting upon the bank of a river, which protected them from attack on that side.
From this point, the long line of legions, drawn up in battle array, extended out upon the
plain, and was terminated at the other extremity by strong squadrons of horse, and bodies of
slingers and archers, so as to give the force of weapons and the activity of men as great a
range as possible there, in order to prevent Caesar's being able to outflank and surround them
There was, however, apparently very little danger of this, for Caesar, according to his own
story, had but about half as strong a force as Pompey. The army of the latter, he says, consisted
of nearly fifty thousand men, while his own number was between twenty and thirty thousand.
Generals, however, are prone to magnify the military grandeur of their exploits by overrating
the strength with which they had to contend, and under-estimating their own. We are therefore
to receive with some distrust the statements made by Caesar and his partisans; and as for Pompey's
story, the total and irreparable ruin in which he himself and all who adhered to him were entirely
overwhelmed immediately after the battle, prevented its being ever told.

[Sidenote: Appearance of Pompey's camp.] [Sidenote: Pompey's tent.]

In the rear of the plain where Pompey's lines were extended was the camp from which the army
had been drawn out to prepare for the battle. The camp fires of the preceding night were moldering
away, for it was a warm summer morning; the intrenchments were guarded, and the tents, now
nearly empty, stood extended in long rows within the inclosure. In the midst of them was the
magnificent pavilion of the general, furnished with every imaginable article of luxury and
splendor. Attendants were busy here and there, some rearranging what had been left in disorder
by the call to arms by which the troops had been summoned from their places of rest, and others
providing refreshments-and food for their victorious comrades when they should return from
the battle. In Pompey's tent a magnificent entertainment was preparing. The tables were spread
with every luxury, the sideboards were loaded with plate, and the whole scene was resplendent
with utensils and decorations of silver and gold.

[Sidenote: His confidence of victory.]

Pompey and all his generals were perfectly certain of victory. In fact, the peace and harmony
of their councils in camp had been destroyed for many days by their contentions and disputes
about the disposal of the high offices, and the places of profit and power at Rome, which were
to come into their hands when Caesar should have been subdued. The subduing of Caesar they
considered only a question of time; and, as a question of time, it was now reduced to very
narrow limits. By 396 (358) attempted Although
the Etruscan cities naechstliegenden Tarquinii, Caere, Falerii against the Roman Rebel incursions,
and how deep the resentment was the same raised in Etruria had, shows the massacre of the totality
in the first campaign made Roman prisoners three hundred and seven in number, in the marketplace of
Tarquinii, but it was the bitterness of powerlessness. In the Peace (403 351) had to Caere, which,
as the Romans initially located at the worst, lost to cede half of Landmark in Rome and with
the narrowed area him, stayed out of the Etruscan league off and get in the Untertanenverhaeltnis
to Rome, which now include single Latin communities had arisen. It seemed not advisable, however,
this remote and Roman derived from the various community to keep those local autonomy, which
the Lazio submissive communities was still remained, it was the community not caeritischen
Roman citizenship only without active and passive voting rights in Rome, but also confiscation
of self-government, so that the place of its own officials in the administration of justice and
estimation of the Roman occurred at the place and even a representative (praefectus) of the Roman
Praetor administration initiated - a first encounters here constitutional form of serfdom,
whereby the previously independent state into a legally continuing, but deprived of any self-motion
Community was transformed. Not long afterwards (411 343) was also Falerii that its original
Latin nationality under the Tuskerherrschaft retains had, from the Etruscan Bunde, and in eternal
covenant with Rome so that all southern Etruria was in one way or another Form of the Roman supremacy
subject. Tarquinii and probably in history that the northern Etruria we are content to captivate
with a peace treaty to 400 months for long-term (403 351).


[Sidenote: Pompey's flight to the camp.] [Sidenote: Pompey in his tent.] [Sidenote: His consternation
and despair.]

When Pompey perceived that all was lost, he fled from the field in a state of the wildest excitement
and consternation. His troops were flying in all directions, some toward the camp, vainly hoping
to find refuge there, and others in various other quarters, wherever they saw the readiest
hope of escape from their merciless pursuers. Pompey himself fled instinctively toward the
camp. As he passed the guards at the gate where he entered, he commanded them, in his agitation
and terror, to defend the gate against the coming enemy, saying that he was going to the other
gates to attend to the defenses there. He then hurried on, but a full sense of the helplessness
and hopelessness of his condition soon overwhelmed him; he gave up all thought of defense,
and, passing with a sinking heart through the scene of consternation and confusion which reigned
every where within the encampment, he sought his own tent, and, rushing into it, sank down,
amid the luxury and splendor which had been arranged to do honor to his anticipated victory,
in a state of utter stupefaction and despair.

CHAPTER VIII.

FLIGHT AND DEATH OF POMPEY.

[Sidenote: Pursuit of the vanquished.] [Sidenote: Pompey recovers himself.]

Caesar pursued the discomfited and flying bodies of Pompey's army to the camp. Meanwhile, the fight went
not so fast to an end, as one might have hoped for probably what extent the nature of this mountain
and siege warfare was to blame, in part probably also the exhaustion of the Romans, fearful of their
Losses, the decline in the role of 473 citizens (281) 479 (275) to 17 000 heads testimony. Still
in 476 (278) it was the consul Gaius Fabricius, the important colony of Tarentum Heraclea to bring
to a separate peace, which granted it under the best conditions was. In the campaign of 477 (277)
suggested they are in Samnium around, where a lightly undertaken Attack on the fortified heights of
the Romans, many people, cost, and then turned after southern Italy, where the Lucanians Brettians
and were beaten. Other hand, came in an attempt to surprise Croton Milo of Taranto from the
Romans before, the Epirots Crew then made even a lucky loss against the besieging army. However
succeeded at last the consul still the same determined by a stratagem to march and the undefended
city to take possession (477 277). More important was the fact that the Lokrenser, had earlier
delivered the Roman occupation to the king, now that the betrayal by Betrayal expiatory, Epirots killed;
which the whole south coast in the hands of the Roemer was with the exception of Rhegion and
Taranto. However, with these successes, it was essentially but little promoted. In Italy itself
had long been defenseless, Pyrrhus was not defeated, as long as Taranto in his hands and he therefore
remained the possibility of war at will to renew again, and the siege of that city could not think
of the Romans. Self ignoring the fact that in the by Philip of Macedon and Demetrios the besiegers
remodeled Fortress war against the Romans an experienced and resolute Greek commander in the most
decided disadvantage was that it required an strong fleet, and although the Carthaginian Contract support
to the Romans promised to sea, still stood Carthage own affairs in Sicily means so that it can
these grant would have. Pyrrhus' landing on the island, which was made freely, despite the Carthaginian
fleet had, then taking a Suggest the state of things changed. He was immediately appalled Syracuse, all
free Griechenstaedte in a short time united in his hand and as the head of the confederation
Siceliotes Carthaginians almost all their possessions snatched away. Hardly could use the time
in the Mediterranean without a rival ruling Carthaginian fleet, the Carthaginians in Lilybaeum that
Mamertines in Messana, and again under constant attack to say. In in such circumstances would
be under the Treaty of 475 (279) is much more of Rome had been to provide assistance to the
Carthaginians in Sicily, as Carthage with his fleet to the Romans Taranto to help conquer;
at all but it just was not inclined to side very much the Social to secure the power, or even to
expand. Carthage, the Romans had offered assistance only as the main danger was over, which in turn
had done nothing, the withdrawal of King of Italy, the fall of the Carthaginian power in Sicily
to prevent. Yes, in open Violation of the contracts had been Carthage even bear the king a separate peace
and against the undisturbed possession of Lilybaeum be offered, on the other Sicilian possessions
to give to make even the king of money and war ships available, and of course for passage to
Italy and the renewal of the war against Rome. However, it was evident that the possession of Lilybaeum
and removal of the king, the position of the Carthaginians grown on the island would be approximately
the same as it had been before Pyrrhus' landing; were to pass out the natural course of the Greek
cities and the lost territory recovered slightly. Sun struck Pyrrhus in the back after two or
perfidious request and went the fact itself to build a navy. Only ignorance and shortsightedness
have the blamed later, it was just as necessary rather than by means of the island to be carried
out easily. Apart from that could be the master of Ambracia Tarentum and Syracuse without
sea power, he took the fleet to conquer Lilybaeum to protect Taranto to Carthage home attack,
as Agathocles, Regulus, Scipio before and after done with such great success. Pyrrhus was never
closer to his goal than in the summer of 478 (276), where he was humiliated in front of Carthage
found itself, Sicily ruled and claimed possession of Tarentum a firm foot in Italy, and where the newly
created fleet zusammenknuepfen all these successes, secure and increase should be ready for departure
at the port of Syracuse was. The main weakness of Pyrrhus' Position based on his flawed domestic
policy. He ruled Sicily as Ptolemy reign had seen in Egypt, he did not respect the church constitutions,
continued his Familiar to officers over the cities when and as long as it pleased him, was instead
the local jury with judges said his courtiers, confiscation, exile, Death sentences at will, and
even over those who About his coming to Sicily had operated on the most lively, crews put in the
cities and ruled Sicily not as the leader of the National Covenant, but as a king. Let him
after this oriental-Hellenistic Saw themselves seem to be a good and wise ruler and actually be,
endured but the Greeks that transplantation of Diadochensystems to Syracuse with all the impatience
of a in long Freiheitsagonie all breeding nation weaned, very soon seemed the Carthaginian
Yoke of the foolish people more bearable than the new Regiment soldiers. The major cities tied
with the Carthaginians, even with the Mamertines compounds, a strong Carthaginian Army dared again
to show himself on the island and supported everywhere by the Greeks, Rice made it progress.
While in the battle, Pyrrhus gave him, was the lucky As always with the "eagle", but it was revealed on that occasion,
the mood on the island was and what could happen and had, when the king withdrew. To this first
and most important error Pyrrhus added a second: he was held with the fleet after Lilybaeum to
Taranto. Apparently he had to do so when fermentation in the minds the Siceliotes, especially
the first of this island completely dislodged the Carthaginians, and thus the dissatisfied recent
support of having cut off before he turn to Italy, was allowed, here was nothing to miss, because
he was sure enough left Taranto and the Allies, after they had once abandoned, now few occasions.
It is understandable sense that his soldiers drove him to the not very honorable withdrawal from
the year 476 (278) by a brilliant return and that he eradicated heart bled when the complaints of
Lucanians and Samnites heard. Alone tasks as they had been able to Pyrrhus, only be solved by
iron natures, to control the self-pity and the sense of honor assets; and such Pyrrhus was
not. The embarkation took place verhaengnisvolle towards the end of the year 478 (276). Heading
the new Syracusan fleet had the Carthaginian a fierce battle to exist in it and lost a notable
number Ships, a. The removal of the king and the news of the first accident were enough to Siceliotes
fall of empire, they even refused to cities all the absent king Money and troops and the gleaming
state collapsed quickly emerged yet again as he was together, partly because the king himself
the loyalty and love, which rests on every community, had undermined in the hearts of his subjects,
partly because the people at the dedication was missing, to resign to save the nationality of
perhaps only a short period of freedom. This made Pyrrhus' businesses failed, the plan of his
life with no prospect then, and he is now an adventurer, it feels that he has been much and nothing
more, of the War no more than means to the end leads, but to stun the dice game in the wild
and if possible to see the Schlachtgetuemmel a soldier. Having reached the Italian coast, Koenig
began with an attempt to seize Rhegion, but with the help of Mamertines beat the Campanian
the attack, and in the heated battle before the city became the king wounded by an enemy officer
struck from his horse. Other hand, by surprise He Locri, whose inhabitants expiated the massacre
of the crew Epirots difficult and plundered the wealth of Persephonetempels there to fill his
empty office. He came to Tarentum, supposedly with 20,000 infantry and 3000 cavalry. But it
was not tested veterans of the anterior and not the Italians welcomed them in their Saviour,
the confidence and hope, so that the King five years ago, received had given way, the allies
assumed money and men. The hard-pressed Samnites, Winters in the territory of the Romans 478/79
(276/75) had to help the king has withdrawn in the spring of 479 (275) into the field and forced
at Benevento in the field Arusinischen the Consul Manius Curius to battle before he and his colleagues
heranrueckenden of Lucania could unite. But the Army Division, which determines the Romans to fall into
the flank had strayed during the night march in the woods and remained in a critical moment off,
and after a violent battle was once again the elephant to battle, but this time for the Romans,
by, by the covering of the camp established archers in confusion brought on their own people
threw themselves. The winners occupied the camp; in their hands were 1300 prisoners and four
elephants - the first to Rome, saw also an immense booty, later from the proceeds of the aqueduct
in Rome, which the Aniowasser by Tiber to Rome led, was built. Without troops to hold the field,
and without money Pyrrhus sent to his allies, who had driven him to the equipment to Italy the
kings of Macedon, and Asia, but also in the home is no longer feared him and cut off the request.
Despairing of success against Rome and exasperated by the refusal Pyrrhus crew left in Taranto and
went himself in the same year (479 275) home to Greece, where more so than for the steady and
measured response of the Italian situation the desperate players are opening up a prospect like
him. In fact, he not only won quickly back what was his kingdom was demolished, but he attacked
again and not without success, to the Macedonian crown. Alone Antigonus Gonatas' quiet and prudent
policy, and still more at his own impetuosity, and the inability, the proud to tame sense failed, and
his last plans, and he went on to win battles, but no more permanent results, and found his
end in battle in a wretched road Peloponnesian Argos (482 272). In Italy, the war ended with
the battle of Benevento, dying slowly the last throes of the national party. For as long as
the Kriegsfuerst, whose powerful Arm had dared to fall in the fate of the reins, was still alive,
held he, although absent from Rome, the citadel of Taranto. Also liked by the king Removal in the
city, the peace party gain the upper hand, Milon, who is for Pyrrhus Runs the command, and
dismissed their impressions and let the Roman-minded cities in the Fort they had built in the
area of ​​Taranto itself, to drop their own peace with Rome To close as they pleased, without
thereby opening its doors. But after Pyrrhus' Death of a Carthaginian fleet in the harbor and pulled
in the Milon citizenship in the process saw surrender the city to the Carthaginians, he preferred
to the Roman consul Lucius Papirius handed over to the castle (482 272) and to purchase it for himself
and his family safe passage. For the Romans this was a tremendous stroke of luck. After the experience,
the Philip ago Perinthus and Byzantium, Demetrios before Rhodes, Pyrrhus had made before Lilybaeum,
can be doubt whether the former strategist was able at all, a well-fortified and wohlverteidigte
and forcing from the sea accessible city to surrender, and the turn would have take things like
that would be if Taranto in Italy for the Phoenicians have become what in Sicily had been Lilybaeum
for them! Meanwhile, what happened was not altered. The Carthaginian Admiral, when he saw the
castle in the hands of the Romans, declared that only in Taranto appeared to be to the treaty, the
allies gained from the siege of the city to provide assistance, and set sail to Africa, and the
Roman embassy, ​​which to ask for clarification of the attempted occupation of Taranto and lead
to complaint was sent to Carthage, not brought back as a solemn oath and affirmation this
alleged intention friendly nation, with one for time being calmed in Rome itself. The Tarentines
received, probably through the agency of its emigrants, the autonomy of back to the Romans,
but weapons and boats and ships had torn down the walls be. In the same year, in the Taranto roman
was, finally submitted to the Samnites, Lucan and Brettians which the latter half of the lucrative
and for the Shipbuilding had to cede important Silawaldes. At last met in the last ten years Rhegion
house band end the penalty for the broken pledge as for the murder of rheginischen Citizenship
and the crew of Croton. It was also the common cause of the Hellenes against the barbarians, which
Rome represented here, the new ruler of Syracuse, Hiero, supported so even before the Romans
Rhegion by sending food and immigration, while making one with the Roman expedition against
Rhegion combined attack on their common and Debt comrades in Sicily, the Mamertines in Messana. The siege
of the latter city moved greatly in the length, however, was Rhegion, although here the mutineers
and stubborn long defended themselves in the year 484 (270) stormed by the Romans, what's
left of the crew was in Rome in the open market flogged and beheaded, the old inhabitants
had been recalled but and used as much as possible in their capital back. That was the year 484
(270) Italy brought to subjection. Only the most determined opponents of Rome, the Samnites
continued, despite the official conclusion of peace or as "robbers" the struggle continues
so that even in 485 (269) again both consuls had to be sent against them. But the generosity
Volksmut, the valiant despair must come to an end; sword and the gallows at last brought also the
Samnite mountains the rest. To secure these vast acquisitions was again A number of colonies created:
in Lucania Paestum and Cosa (481 273), as strongholds for Samnium Beneventum (486 268) and
Aesernia (by 491 263), as an outpost against the Gauls Ariminum (486 268), first in Picenum Firmum
(around 490 264) and citizens colony Castrum, the continuation the large Suedchaussee which
the fortress Benevento a new intermediate station between Capua and Venusia received, to the
ports of Taranto and the colonization and Brundisium Seeplatz of the latter, the policy of
the Roman rival and successor of Tarentum Emporium had chosen to have been prepared.
 A messenger was sent to the land to inform the young king of Pompey's
approach, and to solicit his protection. The government of Ptolemy held a council, and took
the subject into consideration.

[Sidenote: Ptolemy's council resolve to murder Pompey.]

Various opinions were expressed, and various plans were proposed. The counsel which was finally
followed was this. It would be dangerous to receive Pompey, since that would make Caesar their
enemy. It would be dangerous to refuse to receive him, as that would make Pompey their enemy,
and, though powerless now, he might one day be in a condition to seek vengeance. It was wisest,
therefore, to destroy him. They would invite him to the shore, and kill him when he landed.
This would please Caesar; and Pompey himself, being dead, could never revenge it. "Dead dogs,"
as the orator said who made this atrocious proposal, "do not bite."

[Sidenote: The assassin Achillas.]

An Egyptian, named Achillas, was appointed to execute the assassination thus decreed. An invitation
was sent to Pompey to land, accompanied with a promise of protection; and, when his fleet had
approached near enough to the shore, Achillas took a small party in a boat, and went out to
meet his galley. The men in this boat, of course, were armed.

[Sidenote: Suspicions of Pompey's friends.] [Sidenote: Entreaties of Cornelia.] [Sidenote:
Pompey's forlorn condition.] [Sidenote: He determines to land.]

The officers and attendants of Pompey watched all these movements from the deck of his galley.
They scrutinized every thing that occurred with the closest attention and the greatest anxiety,
to see whether the indications denoted an honest friendship or intentions of treachery. The
appearances were not favorable. Pompey's friends observed that no preparations were making
along the shore for receiving him with the honors due, as they thought, to his rank and station.
The manner, too, in which the Egyptians seemed to expect him to land was ominous of evil. Only
a single insignificant boat for a potentate who recently had commanded half the world! Then,
besides, the friends of Pompey observed that several of the principal galleys of Ptolemy's
fleet were getting up their anchors, and preparing apparently to be ready to move at a sudden
call These and other indications appeared much more like preparations for seizing an enemy
than welcoming a friend. Cornelia, who, with her little son, stood upon the deck of Pompey's
galley, watching the scene with a peculiar intensity of solicitude which the hardy soldiers
around her could not have felt, became soon exceedingly alarm ad. She begged her husband Dot
to go on shore. But Pompey decided that it was now too late to retreat. He could not escape
from the Egyptian galleys if they had received orders to intercept him, nor could he resist
violence if violence were intended. To do any thing like that would evince distrust, and to
appear like putting himself upon his guard would be to take at once, himself, the position
of an enemy, and invite and justify the hostility of the Egyptians in return. As to flight,
he could not hope to escape from the Egyptian galleys if they had received orders to prevent
it; and, besides, if he were determined on attempting an escape, whither should he fly? The
world was against him. His triumphant enemy was on his track in full pursuit, with all the
vast powers and resources of the whole Roman empire at his command. There remained for Pompey
only the last forlorn hope of a refuge in Egypt, or else, as the sole alternative, a complete
and unconditional submission to Caesar. His pride would not consent to this, and he determined,
therefore, dark as the indications were, to place himself, without any appearance of distrust,
in Ptolemy's hands, and abide the issue.

The boat of Achillas approached the galley. When it touched the side, Achillas and the other
officers on board of it hailed Pompey in the most respectful manner, giving him the title of
Imperator, the highest title known in the Roman state. Achillas addressed Pompey in Greek.
The Greek was the language of educated men in all the Eastern countries in those days. He told
him that the water was too shallow for his galley to approach nearer to the shore, and invited
him to come on board of his boat, and he would take him to the beach, where, as he said, the
king was waiting to receive him.

[Sidenote: Preparations for landing.] [Sidenote: Pompey takes leave of his wife.]

With many anxious forebodings, that were but ill concealed, Pompey made preparations to accept
the invitation. He bade his wife farewell, who clung to him as they were about to part with
a gloomy presentiment that they should never meet again. Two centurions who were to accompany
Pompey, and two servants, descended into the boat. Pompey himself followed, and then the boatmen
pushed off from the galley and made toward the shore. The decks of all the vessels in Pompey's
little squadron, as well as those of the Egyptian fleet, were crowded with spectators, and
lines of soldiery and groups of men, all intently watching the operations of the landing, were
scattered along the shore.

[Sidenote: The assassins.] [Sidenote: Gloomy silence.]

Among the men whom Achillas had provided to aid him in the assassination was an offieer of
the Roman army who had formerly served under Pompey. As soon as Pompey was seated in the boat,
he recognized the countenance of this man, and addressed him, saying, "I think I remember you
as having been in former days my fellow-soldier." The man replied merely by a nod of assent.
Feeling somewhat guilty and self-condemned at the thoughts of the treachery which he was about
to perpetrate, he was little inclined to renew the recollection of the days when he was Pompey's
friend. In fact, the whole company in the boat, filled on the one part with awe in anticipation
of the terrible deed which they were soon to commit, and on the other with a dread suspense
and alarm, were little disposed for conversation, and Pompey took out a manuscript of an address
in Greek which he had prepared to make to the young king at his approaching interview with
him, and occupied himself in reading it over. Thus they advanced in a gloomy and solemn silence,
hearing no sound but the dip of the oars in the water, and the gentle dash of the waves along
the line of the shore.

[Sidenote: Assassination of Pompey.]

At length the boat touched the sand, while Cornelia still stood on the deck of the galley,
watching every movement with great solicitude and concern. One of the two servants whom Pompey
had taken with him, named Philip, his favorite personal attendant, rose to assist his master
in landing. He gave Pompey his hand to aid him in rising from his seat, and at that moment
the Roman officer whom Pompey had recognized as his fellow-soldier, advanced behind him and
stabbed him in the back. At the same instant Achillas and the others drew their swords. Pompey
saw that all was lost. He did not speak, and he uttered no cry of alarm, though Cornelia's
dreadful shriek was so loud and piercing that it was heard upon the shore. From the suffering
victim himself nothing was heard but an inarticulate groan extorted by his agony. He gathered
his mantle over his face, and sank down and died.

[Sidenote: Cornelia.] [Sidenote: The funeral pile.] [Sidenote: Pompey's ashes sent to Cornelia.]

Of course, all was now excitement and confusion. As soon as the deed was done, the perpetrators
of it retired from the scene, taking the head of their unhappy victim with them, to offer to
Caesar as proof that his enemy was really no more. The officers who remained in the fleet which
had brought Pompey to the coast made all haste to sail away, bearing the wretched Cornelia
with them, utterly distracted with grief and despair, while Philip and his fellow-servant remained
upon the beach, standing bewildered and stupefied over the headless body of their beloved master.
Crowds of spectators came in succession to look upon the hideous spectacle a moment in silence,
and then to turn, shocked and repelled, away. At length, when the first impulse of excitement
had in some measure spent its force, Philip and his comrades so far recovered their composure
as to begin to turn their thoughts to the only consolation that was now left to them, that
of performing the solemn duties of sepulture. They found the wreck of a fishing boat upon the
strand, from which they obtained wood enough for a rude funeral pile. They burned what remained
of the mutilated body, and, gathering up the ashes, they put them in an urn and sent them to
Cornelia, who afterward buried them at Alba with many bitter tears.

CHAPTER IX.

CAESAR IN EGYPT.

[Sidenote: Caesar after the battle of Pharsalia.]

Caesar surveyed the field of battle after the victory of Pharsalia, not with the feelings of
exultation which might have been expected in a victorious general, but with compassion and
sorrow for the fallen soldiers whose dead bodies covered the ground. After gazing upon the
scene sadly and in silence for a time, he said, "They would have it so," and thus dismissed
from his mind all sense of his own responsibility for the consequences which had ensued.

[Sidenote: His clemency.] [Sidenote: Caesar pursues Pompey.]

He treated the immense body of prisoners which had fallen into his hands with great clemency,
partly from the natural impulses of his disposition, which were always generous and noble,
and partly from policy, that he might conciliate them all, officers and soldiers, to acquiescence
in his future rule. He then sent back a large portion of his force to Italy, and, taking a
body of cavalry from the rest, in order that he might advance with the utmost possible rapidity,
he set off through Thessaly and Macedon in pursuit of his fugitive foe.

[Sidenote: Treasures of the Temple of Diana.]

He had no naval force at his command, and he accordingly kept upon the land. Besides, he wished,
by moving through the country at the head of an armed force, to make a demonstration which
should put down any attempt that might be made in arty quarter to rally or concentrate a force
in Pompey's favor. He crossed the Hellespont, and moved down the coast of Asia Minor. There
was a great temple consecrated to Diana at Ephesus, which, for its wealth and magnificence,
was then the wonder of the world. The authorities who had it in their charge, not aware of
Caesar's approach, had concluded to withdraw the treasures from the temple and loan them to
Pompey, to be repaid when he should have regained his Dower. An assembly was accordingly convened
to witness the delivery of the treasures, and take note of their value, which ceremony was
to be performed with great formality and parade, when they learned that Caesar had crossed
the Hellespont and was drawing near. The whole proceeding was thus arrested, and the treasures
were retained.

[Sidenote: Caesar in Asia Minor.] [Sidenote: He sails for Egypt.]

Caesar passed rapidly on through Asia Minor, examining and comparing, as he advanced, the vague
rumors which were continually coming in in respect to Pompey's movements. He learned at length
that he had gone to Cyprus; he presumed that his destination was Egypt, and he immediately
resolved to provide himself with a fleet, and follow him thither by sea. As time passed on,
and the news of Pompey's defeat and flight, and of Caesar's triumphant pursuit of him, became
generally extended and confirmed, the various powers ruling in all that region of the world
abandoned one after another the hopeless cause, and began to adhere to Caesar. They offered
him such resources and aid as he might desire. He did not, however, stop to organize a large
fleet or to collect an army. He depended, like Napoleon, in all the great movements of his
life, not on grandeur of preparation, but on celerity of action. He organized at Rhodes a small
but very efficient fleet of ten galleys, and, embarking his best troops in them, he made sail
for the coasts of Egypt. Pompey had landed at Pelusium, on the eastern frontier, having heard
that the young king and his court were there to meet and resist Cleopatra's invasion. Caesar,
however, with the characteristic boldness and energy of his character, proceeded directly to
Alexandria, the capital.

[Sidenote: Caesar at Alexandria.]

Egypt was, in those days, an ally of the Romans, as the phrase was; that is, the country, though
it preserved its independent organization and its forms of royalty, was still united to the
Roman people by an intimate league, so as to form an integral part of the great empire. Caesar,
consequently, in appearing there with an armed force, would naturally be received as a friend.
He found only the garrison which Ptolemy's government had left in charge of the city. At first
the officers of this garrison gave him an outwardly friendly reception, but they soon began
to take offense at the air of authority and command which he assumed, and which seemed to them
to indicate a spirit of encroachment on the sovereignty of their own king.

[Sidenote: The Roman fasces.] [Sidenote: The lictors.]

Feelings of deeply-seated alienation and animosity sometimes find their outward expression
in contests about things intrinsically of very little importance. It was so in this case. The
Roman consuls were accustomed to use a certain badge of authority called the fasces. It consisted
of a bundle of rods, bound around the handle of an ax. Whenever a consul appeared in public,
he was preceded by two officers called lictors, each of whom carried the fasces as a symbol
of the power which was vested in the distinguished personage who followed them.

The Egyptian officers and the people of the city quarreled with Caesar on account of his moving
about among them in his imperial state, accompanied by a life guard, and preceded by the lictors.
Contests occurred between his troops and those of the garrison, and many disturbances were
created in the streets of the city. Although no serious collision took place, Caesar thought
it prudent to strengthen his force, and he sent back to Europe for additional legions to come
to Egypt and join him.

[Sidenote: Pompey's head sent to Caesar.] [Sidenote: Caesar mourns Pompey.]

The tidings of Pompey's death came to Caesar at Alexandria, and with them the head of the murdered
man, which was sent by the government of Ptolemy, they supposing that it would be an acceptable
gift to Caesar. Instead of being pleased with it, Caesar turned from the shocking spectacle
in horror. Pompey had been, for many years now gone by, Caesar's colleague and friend. He had
been his son-in-law, and thus had sustained to him a very near and endearing relation. In the
contest which had at last unfortunately arisen, Pompey had done no wrong either to Caesar or
to the government at Rome. He was the injured party, so far as there was a right and a wrong
to such a quarrel. And now, after being hunted through half the world by his triumphant enemy,
he had been treacherously murdered by men pretending to receive him as a friend. The natural
sense of justice, which formed originally so strong a trait in Caesar's character, was not
yet wholly extinguished. He could not but feel some remorse at the thoughts of the long course
of violence and wrong which he had pursued against his old champion and friend, and which had
led at last to so dreadful an end. Instead of being pleased with the horrid trophy which the
Egyptians sent him, he mourned the death of his great rival with sincere and unaffected grief,
and was filled with indignation against his murderers.

[Sidenote: Pompey's signet ring.] [Sidenote: Caesar's respect for Pompey's memory.] [Sidenote:
Pompey's Pillar.] [Sidenote: Origin of Pompey's Pillar.]

Pompey had a signet ring upon his finger at the time of his assassination, which was taken
off by the Egyptian officers and carried away to Ptolemy, together with the other articles
of value which had been found upon his person. Ptolemy sent this seal to Caesar to complete
the proof that its possessor was no more. Caesar received this memorial with eager though mournful
pleasure, and he preserved it with great care. And in many ways, during all the remainder of
his life, he manifested every outward indication of cherishing the highest respect for Pompey's
memory. There stands to the present day, among the ruins of Alexandria, a beautiful column,
about one hundred feet high, which has been known in all modern times as POMPEY'S PILLAR. It
is formed of stone, and is in three parts. One stone forms the pedestal, another the shaft,
and a third the capital. The beauty of this column, the perfection of its workmanship, which
still continues in excellent preservation, and its antiquity, so great that all distinct record
of its origin is lost, have combined to make it for many ages the wonder and admiration of
mankind. Although no history of its origin has come down to us, a tradition has descended that
Caesar built it during his residence in Egypt, to commemorate the name of Pompey; but whether
it was his own victory over Pompey, or Pompey's own character and military fame which the structure
was intended to signalize to mankind, can not now be known. There is even some doubt whether
it was erected by Caesar at all.

[Sidenote: Surrender of Pompey's officers.] [Sidenote: Caesar's generosity.]

While Caesar was in Alexandria, many of Pompey's officers, now that their master was dead,
and there was no longer any possibility of their rallying again under his guidance and command,
came in and surrendered themselves to him. He received them with great kindness, and, instead
of visiting them with any penalties for having fought against him, he honored the fidelity
and bravery they had evinced in the service of their own former master. Caesar had, in fact,
shown the same generosity to the soldiers of Pompey's army that he had taken prisoners at the
battle of Pharsalia. At the close of the battle, he issued orders that each one of his soldiers
should have permission to save one of the enemy. Nothing could more strikingly exemplify both
the generosity and the tact that marked the great conqueror's character than this incident.
The hatred and revenge which had animated his victorious soldiery in the battle and in the
pursuit, were changed immediately by the permission to compassion and good will. The ferocious
soldiers turned at once from the pleasure of hunting their discomfited enemies to death, to
that of protecting and defending them; and the way was prepared for their being received into
his service, and incorporated with the rest of his army as friends and brothers.

[Sidenote: His position at Alexandria.] [Sidenote: Caesar's interference in Egyptian affairs.]

Caesar soon found himself in so strong a position at Alexandria, that he determined to exercise
his authority as Roman consul to settle the dispute in respect to the succession of the Egyptian
crown. There was no difficulty in finding pretexts for interfering in the affairs of Egypt.
In the first place, there was, as he contended, great anarchy and confusion at Alexandria,
people taking different sides in the controversy with such fierceness as to render it impossible
that good government and public order should be restored until this great question was settled.
He also claimed a debt due from the Egyptian government, which Photinus, Ptolemy's minister
at Alexandria, was very dilatory in paying. This led to animosities and disputes; and, finally,
Caesar found, or pretended to find, evidence that Photinus was forming plots against his life.
At length Caesar determined on taking decided action. He sent orders both to Ptolemy and to
Cleopatra to disband their forces, to repair to Alexandria, and lay their respective claims
before him for his adjudication.

[Sidenote: Cleopatra.]

Cleopatra complied with this summons, and returned to Egypt with a view to submitting her case
to Caesar's arbitration. Ptolemy determined to resist. He advanced toward Egypt, but it was
at the head of his army, and with a determination to drive Caesar and all his Roman followers away.

[Sidenote: Caesar's guilty passion for Cleopatra.]

When Cleopatra arrived, she found that the avenues of approach to Caesar's quarters were all
in possession of her enemies, so that, in attempting to join him, she incurred danger of falling
into their hands as a prisoner. She resorted to a stratagem, as the story is, to gain a secret
admission. They rolled her up in a sort of bale of bedding or carpeting, and she was carried
in in this way on the back of a man, through the guards, who might otherwise have intercepted
her. Caesar was very much pleased with this device, and with the successful result of it. Cleopatra,
too, was young and beautiful, and Caesar immediately conceived a strong but guilty attachment
to her, which she readily returned. Caesar espoused her cause, and decided that she and Ptolemy
should jointly occupy the throne.

[Sidenote: Resistance of Ptolemy.] [Sidenote: The Alexandrine war.]

Ptolemy and his partisans were determined not to submit to this award. The consequence was,
a violent and protracted war. Ptolemy was not only incensed at being deprived of what he considered
his just right to the realm, he was also half distracted at the thought of his sister's disgraceful
connection with Caesar. His excitement and distress, and the exertions and efforts to which
they aroused him, awakened a strong sympathy in his cause among the people, and Caesar found
himself involved in a very serious contest, in which his own life was brought repeatedly into
the most imminent danger, and which seriously threatened the total destruction of his power.
He, however, braved all the difficulty and dangers, and recklessly persisted in the course
he had taken, under the influence of the infatuation in which his attachment to Cleopatra held
him, as by a spell.

[Sidenote: The Pharos.] [Sidenote: Great splendor of the Pharos.]

The war in which Caesar was thus involved by his efforts to give Cleopatra a seat with her
brother on the Egyptian throne, is called in history the Alexandrine war. It was marked by
many strange and romantic incidents. There was a light-house, called the Pharos, on a small
island opposite the harbor of Alexandria, and it was so famed, both on account of the great
magnificence of the edifice itself, and also on account of its position at the entrance to
the greatest commercial port in the world, that it has given its name, as a generic appellation,
to all other structures of the kind--any light-house being now called a Pharos, just as any
serious difficulty is called a Gordian knot. The Pharos was a lofty tower--the accounts say
that it was five hundred feet in height, which would be an enormous elevation for such a structure--and
in a lantern at the top a brilliant light was kept constantly burning, which could be seen
over the water for a hundred miles. The tower was built in several successive stories, each
being ornamented with balustrades, galleries, and columns, so that the splendor of the architecture
by day rivaled the brilliancy of the radiation which beamed from the summit by night. Far and
wide over the stormy waters of the Mediterranean this meteor glowed, inviting and guiding the
mariners in; and both its welcome and its guidance were doubly prized in those ancient days,
when there was neither compass nor sextant on which they could rely. In the course of the contest
with the Egyptians, Caesar took possession of the Pharos, and of the island on which it stood;
and as the Pharos was then regarded as one of the seven wonders of the world, the fame of the
exploit, though it was probably nothing remarkable in a military point of view, spread rapidly
throughout the world.

[Sidenote: It is captured by Caesar.]

And yet, though the capture of a light-house was no very extraordinary conquest, in the course
of the contests on the harbor which were connected with it Caesar had a very narrow escape
from death. In all such struggles he was accustomed always to take personally his full share
of the exposure and the danger. This resulted in part from the natural impetuosity and ardor
of his character, which were always aroused to double intensity of action by the excitement
of battle, and partly from the ideas of the military duty of a commander which prevailed in
those days. There was besides, in this case, an additional inducement to acquire the glory
of extraordinary exploits, in Caesar's desire to be the object of Cleopatra's admiration, who
watched all his movements, and who was doubly pleased with his prowess and bravery, since she
saw that they were exercised for her sake and in her cause.

[Sidenote: Situation of the Pharos.] [Sidenote: Caesar's personal danger.] [Sidenote: Caesar's
narrow escape.]

The Pharos was built upon an island, which was connected by a pier or bridge with the main
land. It is characteristic Bildsaeulen
of the establishment of the "wisest and the bravest Greeks to the Roman Market, which took place during
the Samnite wars at the behest of the Pythian Apollo, we elected, apparently under Sicilian or
Kampan influence that Pythagoras and Alcibiades the Saviour and the Hannibal of the West Greeks. How
widespread the knowledge of Greek was already in the fifth century under the Romans do, prove
the embassies the Romans to Taranto, where the speaker of the Romans, though not in the purest
Greek, but without an interpreter, spoke and Cineas to Rome. It suffers little doubt that since
the fifth century, the young Romans, who were dedicated to the affairs of state, continuity
The news of the contemporary world and diplomatic language to earn. So step on the spiritual
Field of Hellenism as inexorably forward, like the Romans worked the Earth to make submissive,
and the secondary nationalities, such as the Samnite, Celtic, Etruscan, lost, under pressure
from two sides, more and more like expansion of internal Force. But the two great nations,
both reached the peak of their development, as in friendly contact with hostile begin to penetrate,
occurs at the same time their opposition, the total lack of individualism in all the Italian and especially
in the Roman character compared to the infinite derived lichen, and local human Variety of
Hellenism in full sharpness out. There are no more violent era in the history of Rome as the
era of the establishment of the Roman Republic to the Subjugation of Italy, in her was justified outside
the community, both internally and, created in her the unification of Italy, in its traditional
foundations of land law and the country's history produced in her the Pilum and the centurion,
the Road and Hydraulic Engineering, the estate and money economically justified, cast her
in the Capitoline she-wolf and the ficoronische box drawn. But the individuality, which to
this gigantic the individual stones have worn, and they brought the assembled are lost without
a trace and Italic tribes of the risen not entirely in the Roman than the individual Roman
citizens in the Roman community. Like the grave in the same way about the important how about
the small people will close, so is also in Roman mayor list the void Junker indistinguishable
great addition to the statesman. Of the few records which are from this period come down to us
is not just a respectable and not at the same time characteristic than the grave writing of Lucius
Cornelius Scipio, in the year 456 (298) Was consulted, and three years later mitfocht in the decisive
battle in Sentinum. On the beautiful sarcophagus in elegant Doric style, the eighty years before the
dust of the conqueror the Samnites single lock is inscribed the following sentence: Lucius
Cornelius - Scipio Barbatus, Gnaivód patre prognátus, - Fortis Vir sapiénsque, Quoiús forma
Virtues - tei parísuma fuite, Consol censor aidílis - Quei fuit apud vos, Taurásiá Cisaúna -
Sámnió CEPIT, Subigít omne Loucánam - ópsidésque abdoúcit. Lucius Cornelius - Scipio Barbatus,
His father Gnaevos Son, one - man as wise as brave, well his body was - appropriately virtue,
The Consul, censor was at - you, as well Aedilis, Taurasia, Cisauna - he took in Samnium, Defeat
Lucania completely - leadeth away the hostages. Just as the Roman statesman and Warriors might
be countless others who stood at the head of the Roman community have nachruehmen it that noble
and beautiful, brave and wise men have been, but was nothing further to report on them. It's
probably not just blame the tradition, that none of Cornelius, Fabians, and how they continue
Papirii hot, us human in a specific image confronts. The senator is not bad and not better at
all no different than all the senators, it is neither necessary nor desirable that a citizen of
any other factors about meetings, either by magnificent end Silbergeraet and Hellenic culture
even through uncommon wisdom and excellence. Those excesses of the censor and punish for this
has no place in the Constitution. The Rome of this time belongs to no individual; Citizens must be
all the same, so that every one is equal to Koenig. However there now next to the Hellenic individual
development itself felt, and the Genialitaet violence and carries the same level as the opposite
direction of the full stamp this great time. There is only one man to name here, but it is also the
Idea of ​​progress as it incarnates. Appius Claudius, not only of the Roman dating Water lines
and roads, but also the Roman jurisprudence, eloquence, poetry and Grammar - the publication
of a Klagspiegels, recorded speeches and Pythagorean Proverbs, even innovations in orthography
are ascribed to him. He may therefore have not necessarily call a Democrat, nor beizaehlen
him that opposition party in Manius Curius found its representative, but in him was the spirit
of the old and new patrician Conversant Kings, the Spirit of Tarquin and Caesar, among which
he in the fuenfhundertjaehrigen Interregnum extraordinary deeds and ordinary men makes the connection.
As long as Appius Claudius took an active part in public life, he joined his administration
as in his life changing, cheeky and naughty as an Athenian, left to right as through laws and
customs purposes; until then, after he gone from the political stage was assigned, the blind
old man from the grave as recurring, in the crucial hour the King Pyrrhus and Rome in the Senate
overcame perfect dominion over Italy First formally and solemnly pronounced. But the genial man came
too early or too late, and the gods hidden him for his ill-timed wisdom. There was not the genius of the individual
in Rome and Rome in Italy, but of an immovable, from generation to generation in Senate propagated
political thought in its leading principles have the senatorial Boy living inside themselves by
accompanying their fathers went to the rate and the Door of the room listening to the wisdom
of those men, on their chairs they will one day were determined to sit. Such tremendous successes
have been achieved at enormous prices, for even Nike follows their nemesis. In the Roman community,
there is no people more to have neither the soldiers nor the general, and under the rigid
moral-police Breeding is stifled any peculiarity of human nature. Rome has become large as no other
state of antiquity, but it has paid dearly with his size of Sacrifice the graceful variety,
convenient venial, the inner freedom of the Hellenic Life. 9. Chapter art and science, the development
of art and especially poetry as in ancient times in the closest connection with the development
of popular festivals. The already the previous period significantly under Greek influence, first
as an extraordinary Ceremony, ordered the Roman community festival, the "large" or "Roman
Games", adopted during the present-to on time as in variety of amusements. Originally was limited
to the duration of the feast day for that happy ending of the three of revolutions of 245, 260
and 387 (509, 494 and 367) each time an extra day and at the end of this period had thus already
a permanent FOUR DAYS ^ 1 More importantly It is likely that the feast with setting up the
house with the direction and supervision the same responsible curule aedileship (387 367) his
exceptional character and thus its relationship to a particular Feldherrngeluebde and lost in the line
of ordinary, annually recurring first occurred at all. Meanwhile, the government remained persistently
here, the real show hard, especially the center piece, the chariot race, no more than to be
held again at the end of the festival, on the other days it was probably initially about the
amount, can give itself a party, although musicians, dancers, Seilgaenger, have not missed
juggler, clown, and the like more people are hired, or not hired, it is einzufinden. But around the year
390 (364) was an important An alteration that perhaps contemporaneous with the fixation and extension
stand of the party in context: one proposed by the state during the first three Days of the race
course and a Brettergeruest to provide for appropriate ideas on the same to entertain the crowd.
Not to be however, led in this way too far, was for the costs of the festival a fixed sum of 200,000
Assen (14500 pounds) once and for all ejected from the treasury and this is also not up to the
Punic wars increased been, the possible additional amount needed to aediles who had to use the money,
covered from her bag and it is not probable that in this time and considerably more often have
been fired from one's own. That the new stage in general under Greek influence was already proving
its name (scena σκηνή). She was initially only for musicians and clown determined every kind, which
the dancers for flute, including the then might be celebrated Etruscan, probably still the most
distinguished, however, was after all a public Stage in Rome and were soon opened it is also the
Roman poets. -------------------------------------------------- ----- ^ 1 What Dionys (6,
95; see BG Niebuhr, Roman History Volume 2, p. 40.) And Drawing inspiration from another Dionysian
body, Plutarch (Cam. 42) from the Latin festival reports is, as other reasons besides hitting
the comparison of the latter point with Liv. 6, 42 (FW Ritschl, Parerga to Plautus and Terence.
Leipzig 1845th Vol 1, p. 313) shows rather understanding of the Roman games; Dionysius has,
in the basis of his perverse habit persistently misunderstood the term ludi maximi. Besides,
there was also a tradition, that the source of the folk festival, held as usual on the defeat of
the Latins by the first Tarquin, partially ascribed rather to the defeat of the Latins at Lake
Regiller ward (Cic. division 1, 26, 55; Dion Hal 7, 71..). That the important, from the last position
Fabius preserved to information contained in the deed to the usual Thanksgiving and not on a particular
Votivfeierlichkeit go, the explicit reference points to the annual return the celebration and
exactly with the estimate from the wrong Asconius (Ps. Ascon. Or p. 142) tuned Total costs. --------------------------------------------------
- Because there was a lack of poets not in Lazio. Latin "vagrants" or "political satirist" (grass catalysts,
spatiatores) moved from city to city and from house to house and carried her songs (satura) with gesticulating Dance to Floetenbegleitung before.
The Mass of course was the only one that existed at that time, the called Saturnian. A certain
action was not based on the songs, nor they seem to have been maintains a dialogue, you will
be the same along the lines of that monotonous, sometimes improvised, sometimes allowed to present
recited tarantellas Ballater and how to Today she gets to hear more in the Roman taverns. Such songs
were as too early on the public stage, however, and the first germ of the roman theater become. But
these beginnings of Schaubuehne are not only in Rome, as everywhere, humble, but remarkably the
same bescholten from the start. Even the Twelve Tables confront the evil and not sing-song quality
by not only to spell, but even on satirical songs, which are manufactured to a fellow citizen
or absingt him at the door, severe criminal penalties and prohibit use the recourse of action
for women at the funeral. But far more stringent than the statutory restrictions was the beginning
Kunstuebung struck by the moral ban, which the philistine nature of the Roman Ernst hurled
against the frivolous and paid industry. "The poets craft," says Cato, "Was not usually identified,
so that if someone gave or at the orgies are appending he was called a loafer. "If, however,
did dance, music and business Baenkelgesang for money was the more tightly-setting Bescholtenheit
of each service through chores made for remuneration derived livelihood from a twofold defect.
Therefore, if assisting in the landueblichen masked character antics as an innocent young Mischief
was regarded as the occurrence was on the public stage for money and without masks for quite disgraceful,
and the singer and poet stood with the Seiltaenzer and the clown completely in the same row. Such people
were the moral champions regularly declared incapable of serving in the army and citizens
in town meetings to vote. It was also not merely what is in itself significant enough to Buehnendirektion
considered as belonging to the competence of the city police, but it was also the police probably
in this period against the gewerbmaessigen Buehnenkuenstler an extraordinary arbitrary Violence
admitted. Not only the police men were about to consummate performance to court, where the
wine for the floss plenty of skilled people as well as for the Tinker were the beatings, but
also all city officials were legally empowered about any actor at any time, any place and corporal
punishment Imprisonment imposed. The necessary consequence was that dance, music and poetry, at
least as they apply to the public stage showed the lowest classes of the Roman Citizenship,
and above all the foreigners were in the hands, and if in that time, the poetry while still
too small a role at all played as that foreign artists with her to workers had, so must the other
hand, an indication that in Rome the whole sacred and profane Etruscan much music, so the old,
once apparently cherished Latin Floetenkunst suppressed by the exotic, was already considered
to be valid for this time. From a poetic literature is the question. Neither the game nor the mask
Buehnenrezitationen have had a really solid texts can, but were regularly according to need
by the speakers themselves manufactured. knew of literary works from this period Later they show
nothing as a kind of roman 'Works and Days', an instruction the farmer to his son ^ 2, and
the aforementioned poems of the Pythagorean Appius Claudius, the first beginning Hellenizing roman
poetry. is left of the Seals of this period is nothing but a grave and the other writing in the
Saturnian mass. As the beginnings of the Roman Schaubuehne Thus also the beginnings of the Roman
historians in this period, both the simultaneous recording of the strange events such as the conventional
determination of the history of the Roman community. The simultaneous writing of history ties in the official
directory. The most long standing, which the later Roman researchers has been submitted and, indirectly,
we still present, it appears from the archive Capitoline temple of Jupiter to arise, given the
lack of the consul Marcus Horatius, the same on 13 September inaugurated his year in office,
the names of the year old parish lists, including at the bottom of the overview consuls Publius
Servilius and Lucius Aebutius (now viable count 291 of the City 463) on the occasion of a serious
disease carried vow: beat from then on every hundred years in the wall of the Capitoline temple, a
nail, Ruecksicht increases. Later it is the mass and scribes of the community, ie the pontiffs,
who, because the names of the parish of its own year old record and therefore connecting with the
month-one years older panel, and both have since been under the - actually only the Judiciary
panel OF HIS - names of fasting together. This institution may be taken not long after the abolition
of the monarchy, because in fact, the order able to the public acts of ascertaining numerical, the
official registration of all Officials urgent practical need was, but if such an old official
list of Municipal officials have been, this is probably in the Gallic conflagration (364 390) based
gone and the list of Pontifikalkollegiums afterwards from this disaster is not Capitoline concerned,
so far these have been supplemented handed back. That we present Head in the directory have side
issues, particularly the genealogical information on the Hand out the pedigrees of the nobility
has been completed, but essentially from the beginning goes back on simultaneous and credible
records, is no doubt, the Calendar years but are only imperfectly and approximately the same
increase as the community leaders not competed with the New Year, not even with a once and
for all observed days but in many occasions the starting date is pushed back and forth, and frequently between
two consulates occurring between governments in the bill for all years in office . Precipitated
If you wanted to still count under this head the list of calendar years, it was it needed the inaugural and Abgangstag
of each college, together with the possible inter rain to be noted, and this may be done early.
In addition, however, the list of Officials for the calendar year list prepared in such a way that
by each accommodation Calendar year, a pair of allotting and officials, where the list was not
sufficient Fuelljahre FILING which in the later (Varronian) table with the number 379-383, 421, 430,
445, 453 denotes are. From the year 291 (463) the Roman list is shown, although not in detail,
probably but on the whole, the Roman calendar in harmony, so far chronologically sure as the inadequacy
of the calendar even this verstattet; the other side of that year past 47 years points outside the
control, but at least in the main also be right ^ 3, which is beyond the year 245 (509) is missing
in chronological order. -------------------------------------------------- --- ^ 2 For this
is the Bruchstueck: In dry autumns, wet - spring, will you, boy, reap big spelled. We know
certainly not, by what right this poem later than the oldest Roman was (Macr. Sat 5, 20;. Hard v. Flaminius
p. 93 M; Serv georg. 1, 101. Plin Nat 17, 2, 14.). ^ Only the first three digits indicate the list cause
for suspicion, and may later added be to round the number of years by the king to flee the
town fire to 120. ------------------------------------------------ A gemeingebraeuchliche era
has not been formed, but in sacred relationships were counted after the inauguration year of the
Capitoline temple of Jupiter, from here on, too the official list was running. It was obvious,
next to the names of the officials the most important of their Run the office of prolapsed events noted,
and from these, the official catalog accompanying News is the Roman history, just as in the
Easter table given written notes the medieval, originated. But it was late it came to the establishment
of a formal, The names of all officials and the strange events year after year ever recorded
Chronicle (Liber annalis) by the pontiffs. Before the 5th under the June 351 (403) annotated Solar
eclipse, from which probably the 20th June 354 (400) meant is found in Chronicle of the later city
no eclipse recorded after observation, the census figures same catch only since the beginning
of the fifth century of the city, to credible noisy, and the front of the people guided Busssachen
and atoned for by community miracles it seems that only since the second half of the fifth
century regularly in the Chronicle mentioned to have. It appears that the establishment of an
orderly and yearbook, which is certainly related to it, just discussed, the editors of the
older officials to list The purpose of the Jahrzaehlung by filing the necessary chronological Fuelljahre
in the first Half of the fifth century occurred. But even after the practice established , that
it is for the chief pontiff, Kriegslaeufte and colonization, pestilence, and expensive Time, eclipses
and wonders deaths of the priests and other distinguished men, who new Gemeindebeschluesse, the
results of the estimation for years to write down this year and marking can draw in his official
residence to permanent memory and to everyone's understanding, one was that of a real historiography
still far away. How dreary the simultaneous recording even at the end of this period was and how
much room they Anna would later be allowed arbitrariness of lists shows the comparison with cutting
clarity the reports about the campaign from the year 456 (298) in the Jahrbuechern and writing
on the grave the consul Scipio ^ 4 The later historians were apparently unable, in this to make
the town book notes a readable and reasonably related reports; and also we would, even if we
book the city is still in its original form existed, hardly fortune from the history of time
to write pragmatic. However there was such a city chronicles not only in Rome but every Latin town
has as its Pontiffs, so obsessed with their annals, as from individual notes, for example, for Ardea, Ameria, Interamna on Nar clearly showing,
and with the entire Town Chronicles might have something similar can be achieved, as for the
early Middle Ages been achieved by a comparison of the various monastic chronicles. Unfortunately,
we Later in Rome, it preferred that the gap rather by Hellenic or Hellenizing Luege to fill.
------------------------------------------------ ^ 4 1, 470 According to the Annals Scipio commanded
in Etruria, his colleague in Samnium and Lucania this year in league with Rome, and after writing
the grave conquered Scipio two towns in Samnium entirely Lucania. ------------------------------------------------
Besides these, however meager and uncertain origin handled official events finding of past times and
past events can in this era poorly documented to have occurred, which the Roman history directly
had have done.
 It is said, for example,
that an immense basin was constructed near the Tiber, large enough to contain two fleets of
galleys, which had on board two thousand rowers each, and one thousand fighting men. These
fleets were then manned with captives, the one with Asiatics and the other with Egyptians,
and when all was ready, they were compelled to fight a real battle for the amusement of the
spectators which thronged the shores, until vast numbers were killed, and the waters of the
lake were dyed with blood. It is also said that the whole Forum, and some of the great streets
in the neighborhood where the principal gladiatorial shows were held, were covered with silken
awnings to protect the vast crowds of spectators from the sun, and thousands of tents were
erected to accommodate the people from the surrounding country, whom the buildings of the city
could not contain.

[Sidenote: Caesar's power.] [Sidenote: Honors conferred upon him.]

All open opposition to Caesar's power and dominion now entirely disappeared. Even the Senate
vied with the people in rendering him every possible honor. The supreme power had been hitherto
lodged in the hands of two consuls, chosen annually, and the Roman people had been extremely
jealous of any distinction for any one, higher than that of an elective annual office, with
a return to private life again when the brief period should have expired. They now, however,
made Caesar, in the first place, consul for ten years, and then Perpetual Dictator. They conferred
upon him the title of the Father of his Country. This Egyptian Strain
consisted of several tribes, of which one blackish in color, and thus the hot Climate had already
been purchased, the other was of a brighter color. This hike but must be done very early by this
people in Thebes have an admirable stage of culture had been donated and acquired an empire, before
we even know has become, and how our common history was known, again from his Height was sunk.
 Statues representing his person were placed in the public edifices,
and borne in processions like those of the gods. Conspicuous and splendidly ornamented seats
were constructed for him in all the places of public assembly, and on these he sat to listen
to debates or witness spectacles, as if he were upon a throne He had, either by his influence
or by his direct power, the control of all the appointments to office, and was, in fact, in
every thing but the name, a sovereign and an absolute king.

[Sidenote: His plans of internal improvement.]

He began now to form great schemes of internal improvement for the general benefit of the empire.
He wished to increase still more the great obligations which the Roman people were under to
him for what he had already done. They really were under vast obligations to him; for, considering
Rome as a community which was to subsist by governing the world, Caesar had immensely enlarged
the means of its subsistence by establishing its sway every where, and providing for an incalculable
increase of its revenues from the tribute and the taxation of conquered provinces and kingdoms.
Since this work of conquest was now completed, he turned his attention to the internal affairs
of the empire, and made many improvements in the system of administration, looking carefully
into every thing, and introducing every where those exact and systematic principles which such
a mind as his seeks instinctively in every thing over which it has any control.

[Sidenote: Ancient division of time.] [Sidenote: Change effected by Caesar.] [Sidenote: The
old and new styles.]

One great change which he effected continues in perfect operation throughout Europe to the
present day. It related to the division of time. The system of months in use in his day corresponded
so imperfectly with the annual circuit of the sun, that the months were moving continually
along the year in such a manner that the winter months came at length in the summer, and the
summer months in the winter. This led to great practical inconveniences; for whenever, for
example, any thing was required by law to be done in certain months, intending to have them
done in the summer, and the specified month came at length to be a winter month, the law would
require the thing to be done in exactly the wrong season. Caesar remedied all this by adopting
a new system of months, which should give three hundred and sixty-five days to the year for
three years, and three hundred and sixty-six for the fourth; and so exact was the system which
he thus introduced, that it went on unchanged for sixteen centuries. The months were then found
to be eleven days out of the way, when a new correction was introduced,[4] and it will now
go on three thousand years before the error will amount to a single day. Caesar employed a
Greek astronomer to arrange the system that he adopted; and it was in part on account of the
improvement which he thus effected that one of the months, as has already been mentioned, was
called July. Its name before was Quintilis.

[Footnote 4: By Pope Gregory XIII. at the time of the change from the old style to the new]

[Sidenote: Magnificent schemes.] [Sidenote: Caesar collects the means to carry out his vast
schemes.]

Caesar formed a great many other vast and magnificent schemes. He planned public buildings
for the city, which were going to exceed in magnitude and splendor all the edifices of the
world. He commenced the collection of vast libraries, formed plans for draining the Pontine
Marshes, for bringing great supplies of water into the city by an aqueduct, for cutting a new
passage for the Tiber from Rome to the sea, and making an enormous artificial harbor at its
mouth. He was going to make a road along the Apennines, and cut a canal through the Isthmus
of Corinth, and construct other vast works, which were to make Rome the center of the commerce
of the world. In a word, his head was filled with the grandest schemes, and he was gathering
around him all the means and resources necessary for the execution of them.

CHAPTER XI

THE CONSPIRACY.

Caesar's greatness and glory came at last to a very sudden and violent end. He was assassinated.
All the attendant circumstances of this deed, too, were of the most extraordinary character,
and thus the dramatic interest which adorns all parts of the great conqueror's history marks
strikingly its end.

[Sidenote: Jealousies awakened by Caesar's power.] [Sidenote: The Roman Constitution.] [Sidenote:
Struggles and Conflicts.]

His prosperity and power awakened, of course, a secret jealousy and ill will. Those who were
disappointed in their expectations of his favor murmured. He might think that the award of his personality, break through the
justice and wisdom of the Mass will rule, even in these waves of Passion and weakness, but he
was mistaken. The nobility rose as one man; the rich plebeians came to his side, and the common
man was displeased because Spurius Cassius, as Federal law and equity offer, even the Latin confederates
in the Assignation wanted to do their part. Cassius had to die, there is some truth in the accusation
that he royal power was usurped, because of course he tried, like the kings, against to protect
its status, the commoners. His law went with him to the grave, but the ghost the same stand since
the rich incessantly before his eyes and again and again it was against them until the fighting
about it in the community perished. And there was still an attempt made to correct the tribunician
violence in that the common Man equality before the law on a more regular and more effective
way guaranteed. The tribune Gaius Terentilius Arsa requested in 292 (462) the appointment
of a commission of five Men to design a common law country to which the consuls in future in their
judiciary should be bound. But the Senate refused this proposal to give his sanction, and it
took ten years before the same came to execution - Annual the hottest Staendekampfes, which
were about this often moved by wars and internal Riots; prevented with the same persistence
aristocratic party approval of the law in Senate appointed and the community again and again to
the same tribunes men. They tried be removed by other concessions the attack: in the year 297
(457) was the increase The Tribune of four to ten approved - albeit a dubious gain, in the following
year through a plebiscite icIL that was received under the privileges of the vaunted Community,
the Aventine, previously uninhabited temple grove and to construction sites in the poorest
citizens hereditary possessions divided. The community took what was offered her, but not heard
on to claim the land law. Finally in 300 (454) came about a comparison of the Senate gave way
on the merits. The drafting of the Land Law was adopted, it should do Associate, ten men will be
elected by the Centuries, which at the same time as highest officials to act in place of the consuls
had (decem viri consulari imperio legibus scribundis), and this post should not only noble but
also plebeians wahlfaehig be. They were here for the first time, albeit only for an exceptional
Office, as eligible known. This was a big step forward to the full political equality, and he
was not too expensive to sell to the tribune removed, the provocation law suspended for the duration
of the Dezemvirats and Zehnmaenner were only required to vaunted freedoms of the community to touch.
Previously, however, still has an embassy sent to Greece to bring home to Solon and other Greek law,
and only after their return for the year were 303 (451) the Zehnmaenner chosen. Although was free to
appoint plebeian, yet the choice was to loud patrician - so powerful was still the nobility - and
only as an election but for 304 (450) is necessary was, were some plebeians elected - the first
non-noble officials of the Roman community has had. If we consider this measure rules in context,
it can hardly another purpose among them are defined as the restriction of the consular power
by the written to put law in place of tribunician help. From both sides had to be convinced that
it could not have left as it was, and the Permanenzerklaerung the anarchy of the town probably ruined,
but in deed and in truth it for no one something came out. Serious people had to realize that the
intervention of the Tribune in the Administration and its Anklaegertaetigkeit had absolutely
detrimental, and the only real gain that had brought the tribunes of the common man, the protection
against biased Administration of justice, was by restricting the Supreme Court as a kind of arbitrariness
of the magistrate. was no doubt, as the plebeians a written common law sought by the patricians
replied that it would redress the tribunician superfluous, and then seems be yielded by both
sides. It was probably never very determined as it should be for drafting the land law, but in the
definitive renunciation of the plebs the tribune is no doubt because the same was by the Dezemvirat
in a position not can be different to unlawful means to regain the tribune. The populace of the
given Promise that their vaunted freedoms should be respected, can be obtained to the independent
rights of the tribunes of the plebeians, as the provocation and the possession of the Aventine. been
the intention seems to be that the Zehnmaenner in their resignation the people should suggest
that now is no longer at will, but according to written Law judging consuls to choose again.
The plan, if it existed, was wise, it was depends on whether passionately strokes the fierce
tempers and over there this peaceful Discharge would accept. The decemvirs the year 303 (451)
brought its law before the people and confirmed this was the same, buried in ten copper plates
on the market at the Rednerbuehne posted outside the Town Hall. Since, however, still require a supplement
seemed then one appointed to the year 304 (450) again Zehnmaenner that still hinzufuegten two
panels; The result was the first and only Roman land law, the law of the Twelve Tables. It
was of compromise of the parties out and you're so deep, ancillary to and beyond mere Zweckmaessigkeitsbestimmungen
changes to existing law does not have probably mentioned. Even in the credit system occurred,
no further mitigation, as that one - probably low - interest rate maximum (10 percent) found
with the usurer severe Punishment - was threatened - characteristically enough with a far heavier
than the thief, the strict liability process was at least an unchanged in its main elements.
Changes in the staendischen Rights were understandably less intended, the legal difference between
taxable no assets and citizens, the invalidity of a marriage between nobles and citizens Lichen have
been confirmed but again in the city due, and limiting the Beamtenwillkuer and protect the citizen
of an explicit requirement that the subsequent law thoroughly the former regime and concluded
that no nation will be issued against an individual citizen should. Most notable is the exclusion
of provocation in the Tribuskomitien Capital goods, while the ward gewaehrleistet the Centuries:
what explains the fact that the criminal justice system was usurped by the plebs and their
chiefs in the act and with the tribunal and the process necessary tribunician capital fell, while
it might the intention was to keep the process aedilizischen Mult. The major political importance
was far less in the content of Weistum than in the now formally established commitment the consuls to
speak to this process forms and rules of law that the law and in the public statement of the Law Code whereby
the legal management of the monitoring of publicity subject and the consul was compelled to
talk all truly equal and common law. The output of the Dezemvirats is in deep darkness. It was -
as reported - the Zehnmaennern only remained, and publish the final two tables and then the
ordinary magistracy to make room. They hesitated, however, under the pretext that the law still
does not was finished, they did even after the end of next year in office to office what extent
possible was as under Roman law, the state extraordinary as to revise the Constitution Magistrates
appointed by the strict deadline set their conditions can not be bound. The moderate faction
of the aristocracy, the Horatii and Valerii at their head, should attempted to force the abdication
of the Senate decemvirs: but the head of the Zehnmaenner, Appius Claudius, by nature a rigid aristocrat,
but now turn to demagogues and a tyrant, gained the upper hand in the Senate, and also the people complied.
The excavation a double army was accomplished without opposition and the war against the Volscians
as started against the Sabines. As has been the tribune Lucius Siccius dentate, the bravest man in Rome
who fought battles in one hundred and twenty and forty-five honorable show scars, had found dead in
front of the camp, treacherously murdered, as was said, at the instigation of Zehnmaenner. The revolution
gardens in the minds, the outbreak did to the unjust verdict of Appius in the process to the freedom
of the daughter of the centurions Lucius Verginius, the bride of the past tribune Lucius Icilius,
saying the girl who snatched yours, to make it non-free and without rights and the father moved
to his daughter on the open market to push the knife himself in the chest, some of them to shame
snatch. While the people whether the unprecedented action solidifies the body of the beautiful
girl fact, ordered the Dezemvir his henchmen, the father and then the groom before his to
lead chair, was to him, from whose decision no appeal, immediately available for speech their rebellion
against his authority. Now the amount was full. Protected by the roaring masses deprive the
father of the groom and the girl is the pursuer of violence Lord, and While in Rome, the Senate
trembles and wavers, the two appear with numerous witnesses the terrible acts in the two camps.
The unheard reported; opens before all eyes the gap that has left the tribunician lack of
protection of legal certainty, and what did the fathers, the sons again. Again leave the army their
leader; they go to military order by the city and again on the sacred mountain where appoint
them again to their Tribune. Still refusing to resign the decemvirs their power: there appears
the army with its tribunes in the city and deposited on the Aventine. Now, at last, where the civil
war was already there and start fighting the road every hour could now renounce the Zehnmaenner their
usurped and dishonored God, and the consuls Lucius Valerius and Marcus Horatius give a second
comparison by which the People's Tribunal was restored. The charges against the decemvirs ended
so that the two most guilty, Appius Claudius and Spurius Oppius, in the prison took the lives,
eight others went into exile and the state moved their assets. Other judicial persecution inhibited
the wise and moderate tribune Marcus Duilius by the timely use his veto. This is the story of
how recorded the style of Roman aristocrats, they may be impossible but, even apart from the Nebenumstaenden,
the great crisis, which, has Twelve panels sprang into those romantic adventurism and political
incomprehensibilities have expired. The Dezemvirat was after the abolition of the monarchy and
the establishment the tribune of the third major victory of the plebs and the bitterness of the
other party against against the institution as their main Appius Claudius is easily explained.
The plebeians had thus won the right to stand on the highest municipal office and the common
law country; and they were, had the cause to rebel against the new magistracy and to restore
by force the purely patrician Konsularregiment. This goal can only have been persecuted by
the aristocratic party, and when the patrician-plebeian decemvirs the Attempt made to maintain
over time to head out in office, then certainly the other hand, in the first row of the needle entered
the lists, and he certainly did not fail is to argue that indeed the plebs diminished their legal
rights, in particular the tribune was taken from it. Succeeded, it is then the needle to remove the
decemvirs so However, it conceivable that after the fall of the plebs now again met in arms,
the results of both the former Revolution of 260 as well as the most recent movement, secure,
and only as a compromise in this conflict, let the Valerian-Horat laws understanding of 305 (449)
itself. The comparison was of course quite as in favor of the plebeians and restricts again
in a sensitive manner, the power of the nobility. That the tribune restored, the noted the nobles extorted
city definitely right and the consuls to act accordingly were required is self lost through
the city right However, the tribes the usurped jurisdiction in capital matters, but the Tribune received
they return, by providing a way was found to them in such cases, the negotiation with the Centuries
to make possible. Besides, they remained in the law, without restriction on fines to identify
and bring this message to the Tribuskomitien, sufficient resources, the to destroy bourgeois existence
of the patrician opponent. It was also at the request of Consuls of the Centuries decided that
in future, any magistrate, including the dictator should be required for his appointment to
accept the challenge, and whoever the contrary appointed an official, lost his head. For the
rest of the dictator kept the previous Violence and could not cash in particular the Tribune
his official acts as those of the consuls. A further restriction of the consular Machtfuelle was
that the administration of the war chest two (quaestores) from the community selected number
masters was transferred, the first for appointed 307 (447). The appointment of either of the two
new paymaster for the war as well as both the city treasurer was now over to the community,
the Consul retained instead of choosing only the election management. The Assembly, elected in the
paymaster were, was that of all the patrician-plebeian ansa vinegars people and agreed to From
neighborhoods, which also has a concession to those meetings much more than the Zenturiatkomitien
dominant peasantry is plebeian. Follow-rich yet it was admitted that the tribunes share in the negotiations
was in the Senate. While in the meeting room the Tribune seemed to admit, the Senate under his dignity;
them was a bank on the Door set to follow from there the negotiations. The tribunician Interzessionsrecht
had also extends to the decisions of the whole Senate, since that advice from a become an Authority
decided was what probably first occurred in the case where a Plebiscite for the whole community should
be authentic, of course, was that since the tribunes of some participation in the negotiations
in the Curia POWER. In order to be protected against substitution and adulteration of Senatsbeschluessen
to the validity of indeed the most important of plebiscites was linked, was decreed that in future
the same not merely in the patrician Stadtquaestoren in Saturn, but also for the plebeian Aediles
in Ceres should be filed. So ended this battle that was started to eliminate the power of the
People's Tribune, but with the time and now definitive sanction their right both individual administrative
acts to call the person charged and any resolution, acquisition the constituent state authorities
to collect at its discretion. With the most sacred oaths and all which offered the religion awesome,
and no less formal with the laws was again both the person of the Tribune as the continuous time and
the completeness of the college secured. It has since then never again made an attempt in Rome,
this Magistrates should be repealed. 3. Chapter The adjustment of the stands and the new aristocracy,
the tribunician movements appear preferably in the social, not political emerged to be a disparity
and there is good reason exists to believe that part of the assets, not in the Senate received
the same poor plebeians was opposed as the patricians, for the privilege against which the
movement is preferably was directed, benefitted them too, and if it again in another relationship,
were set back, it did them no means at the time seem, their claims make to participate in
the offices that, while the whole Senate in its financial Special power was threatened. This explains
that during the first fifty years of the Republic no step was taken, the aim of which almost
to political stabilization of the stalls. Solo a guarantee from the time was this alliance of
patricians and plebeians of the rich but in no wise. Without doubt had a part of the distinguished
families of plebeian house from the movement party joined, partly out Billigkeitsgefuehl against
their peers, partly due to the natural of all federal Recessed, sometimes at length, because they
understood inevitable that concessions to the crowd were on the length and that, used properly,
the elimination of privileges for violations of the patrician and the plebeian order The aristocracy
in the state would give decisive weight. If this conviction, as could not miss, broke into
wider circles, and the aristocracy from the plebeian Top of their class struggle against the nobility
took up sex, it was in the tribune the civil war by law in his hand and was able to battle with
the social emergency propose to dictate the peace terms and the nobility as a mediator between the two
For the parties themselves to enforce access to the offices. Such a turning point in the position the
parties occurred after the fall of Dezemvirats. It was now perfectly clear that the tribune did
not eliminate, the plebeian aristocracy could not Better to do than to take possession of this
mighty lever and the same for disposal to use the political neglect of their state. How helpless
the sex of the needle united populace faced, nothing shows so evident as that of the Fundamental
Theorem the exclusive party, the invalidity of a marriage between nobles and citizens Lichen,
barely four fell Dezemviralrevolution years after the first blow. In the year 309 (445) was
Canuleische the plebiscite decreed that the marriage between nobles and citizens as a Lichen
Roman law should apply and follow the children produced from the state of the father. At the
same time also made sure that instead of consuls Tribune war - there was the Back then, the
division of the army in legions, six, and then straightened, the number these magistrates
- with consular power ^ 1 and consular term of the Centuries should be chosen. The immediate cause
was a military nature by the many Get a larger number of top generals called for them than the
Konsularverfassung granted, but the change is essential for the Staendekampf become, perhaps that
military purpose for this device has more of an excuse as the reason been. able to officers'
positions under the old law requiring every citizen or inmate service , Reach and it was so
that the highest office after it temporarily as early as Dezemvirat the plebeians had been opened,
now released in a comprehensive way all citizens made equally accessible. The obvious question is, have
the interest of the needle while could, as he once give up the sole property of the highest office
in the matter and give had to deny the title of the plebeians and the Consulate them in this strange
form grant ^ 2 But once attached itself to the clothing of the highest municipal office many
partly personal, partly hereditary and political rights: so was the honor of triumph as a legally
due to the clothing of the highest municipal office and never was given an officer, who had
not even managed that, it was the offspring of an official curule free, publicly, the image of
such ancestors in the family room and on at appropriate occasions to make a show, while for
other ancestors was not permitted ^ 3 It is also easy to explain, justify how heavy that the
ruling ruling class far more The regiment itself and the concomitant political rights, namely the
hereditary to wrest left and therefore, when it had to share that with the plebeians, the maximum
practical municipal officials not legally nonchalant, owner of curule chair, but as a simple staff
officer, the award was purely personal. Of greater political importance, but as the refusal of the
ancestral law and the honor of triumph was that the exclusion of the Senate sitting plebeians
of the debate necessary for those of them fell, as designate or been consuls in the line of questioning
before the rest for their opinions Senators stood up, so it was, however, for the nobility of
great importance to the Plebeians to only one consular office, and not allow itself to the consulate.
--------------------------------------------- ^ 1 The assumption that legally the patrician Konsulartribunen
the full, the plebeian only the military empire was granted, not only causes some questions to
which there is no answer, for example, what happened, then, if, as this is legally possible
was the choice was louder plebeian, but above all offend against the fundamental theorem State
of the Roman law, that the empire, that is, the right to the citizens in the name to command the
town, high indivisible and generally no other than a spatial Demarcation is capable. There
is a Charter County and a martial law district in which the latter, the provocation, and other
city legal provisions are not relevant, it are civil servants, such as the pro-consuls, which
function to only in the latter fortune, but there are strict legal sense, not officials with
just how jurisdiktionellem not only with military empire. The consul is in his district just as
the Consul both top commander and chief justice and authority, not only among non-citizens and soldiers,
but also to instruct citizens in the process. Even as the establishment of the praetorship the concept
of competence for the magistrates maiores comes up, he has more actual than actually legal validity:
the urban praetor, although initially, Chief Justice, but it can also at least in certain cases cited
by the Centurions and can command an army; the consul is in the city initially to the upper management
and command, but he acts but even with emancipation and adoption as a court master - the indivisibility
of the qualitative highest office is itself still held here on both sides with great sharpness.
It So must the military as the jurisdictional official authority or, to them, the Roman Right
this time by foreign abstractions to leave aside the powers of the absolute plebeian Konsulartribunen
have granted virtually as good as the patrician. But Well may as Becker WA (manual, vol
 Many of these warnings were strange portents and prodigies,
which the philosophical writers who recorded them half believed themselves, and which they
were always ready to add to their narratives even if they did not believe them, on account
of the great influence which such an introduction of the supernatural and the divine had with
readers in those days in enhancing the dignity and the dramatic interest of the story. These
warnings were as follows:

[Sidenote: The tomb and inscription.]

At Capua, which was a great city at some distance south of Rome, the second, in fact, in Italy,
and the one which Hannibal had proposed to make his capital, some workmen were removing certain
ancient sepulchers to make room for the foundations of a splendid edifice which, among his
other plans for the embellishment of the cities of Italy, Caesar was intending to have erected
there. As the excavations advanced, the workmen came at last to an ancient tomb, which proved
to be that of the original founder of Capua; and, in bringing out the sarcophagus, they found
an inscription, worked upon a brass plate, and in the Greek character, predicting that if those
remains were ever disturbed, a great member of the Julian family would be assassinated by his
own friends, and his death would be followed by extended devastations throughout all Italy.

[Sidenote: Caesar's horses.]

The horses, too, with which Caesar had passed the Rubicon, and which had been, ever since that
time, living in honorable retirement in a splendid park which Caesar had provided for them,
by some mysterious instinct, or from some divine communication, had warning of the approach
of their great benefactor's end. They refused their food, and walked about with melancholy
and dejected looks, mourning apparently, and in a manner almost human, some impending grief.

[Sidenote: The soothsayers.]

There was a class of prophets in those days called by a name which has been translated soothsayers.
These soothsayers were able, as was supposed, to look somewhat into futurity--dimly and doubtfully,
it is true, but really, by means of certain appearances exhibited by the bodies of the animals
offered in sacrifices These soothsayers were consulted on all important occasions; and if the
auspices proved unfavorable when any great enterprise was about to be undertaken, it was often,
on that account, abandoned or postponed. One of these soothsayers, named Spurinna, came to
Caesar one day, and informed him that he had found, by means of a public sacrifice which he
had just been offering, that there was a great and mysterious danger impending over him, which
was connected in some way with the Ides of March, and he counseled him to be particularly cautious
and circumspect until that day should have passed.

[Sidenote: The hawks and the wren.]

The Senate were to meet on the Ides of March in a new and splendid edifice, which had been
erected for their use by Pompey. There was in the interior of the building, among other decorations,
a statue of Pompey. The day before the Ides of March, some birds of prey from a neighboring
grove came flying into this hall, pursuing a little wren with a sprig of laurel in its mouth.
The birds tore the wren to pieces, the laurel dropping from its bill to the marble pavement
of the floor below. Now, as Caesar had been always accustomed to wear a crown of laurel on
great occasions, and had always evinced a particular fondness for that decoration, that plant
had come to be considered his own proper badge, and the fall of the laurel, therefore, was
naturally thought to portend some great calamity to him.

[Sidenote: Caesar's agitation of mind.] [Sidenote: His dream.] [Sidenote: Calpurnia's dream.]
[Sidenote: The effect of a disturbed mind.]

The night before the Ides of March Caesar could not sleep. It would not seem, however, to be
necessary to suppose any thing supernatural to account for his wakefulness. He lay upon his
bed restless and excited, or if he fell into a momentary slumber, his thoughts, instead of
finding repose, were only plunged into greater agitations, produced by strange, and, as he
thought, supernatural dreams. He imagined that he ascended into the skies, and was received
there by Jupiter, the supreme divinity, as an associate and equal. While shaking hands with
the great father of gods and men, the sleeper was startled by a frightful sound. He awoke,
and found his wife Calpurnia groaning and struggling in her sleep. He saw her by the moonlight
which was shining into the room. He spoke to her, and aroused her. After staring wildly for
a moment till she had recovered her thoughts, she said that she had had a dreadful dream. She
had dreamed that the roof of the house had fallen in, and that, at the same instant, the doors
had been burst open, and some robber or assassin had stabbed her husband as he was lying in
her arms. The philosophy of those days found in these dreams mysterious and preternatural warnings
of impending danger; that of ours, however, sees nothing either in the absurd sacrilegiousness
of Caesar's thoughts, or his wife's incoherent and inconsistent images of terror--nothing more
than the natural and proper effects, on the one hand, of the insatiable ambition of man, and,
on the other, of the conjugal affection and solicitude of woman. The ancient sculptors carved
out images of men, by the forms and lineaments of which we see that the physical characteristics
of humanity have not changed. History seems to do the same with the affections and passions
of the soul. The dreams of Caesar and his wife on the night before the Ides of March, as thus
recorded, form a sort of spiritual statue, which remains from generation to generation, to
show us how precisely all the inward workings of human nature are from age to age the same.

[Sidenote: Caesar hesitates.]

When the morning came Caesar and Calpurnia arose, both restless and ill at ease. Caesar ordered
the auspices to be consulted with reference to the intended proceedings of the day. The soothsayers
came in in due time, and reported that the result was unfavorable. Calpurnia, too, earnestly
entreated her husband not to go to the senate-house that day. She had a very strong presentiment
that, if he did go, some great calamity would ensue. Caesar himself hesitated. He was half
inclined to yield, and postpone his coronation to another occasion.

[Sidenote: Decimus Brutus.]

In the course of the day, while Caesar was in this state of doubt and uncertainty, one of the
conspirators, named Decimus Brutus, came in. This Brutus was not a man of any extraordinary
courage or energy, but he had been invited by the other conspirators to join them, on account
of his having under his charge a large number of gladiators, who, being desperate and reckless
men, would constitute a very suitable armed force for them to call in to their aid in case
of any emergency arising which should require it.

[Sidenote: Decimus Brutus waits upon Caesar.]

The conspirators having thus all their plans arranged, Decimus Brutus was commissioned to call
at Caesar's house when the time approached for the assembling of the Senate, both to avert
suspicion from Caesar's mind, and to assure himself that nothing had been discovered It was
in the afternoon, the time for the meeting of the senators having been fixed at five o'clock.
Decimus Brutus found Caesar troubled and perplexed, and uncertain what to do. After hearing
what he had to say, he replied by urging him to go by all means to the senate-house, as he
had intended. "You have formally called the Senate together," said he, "and they are now assembling.
They are all prepared to confer upon you the rank and title of king, not only in Parthia, while
you are conducting this war but every where, by sea and land, except in Italy. And now, while
they are all in their places, waiting to consummate the great act, how absurd will it be for
you to send them word to go home again, and come back some other day, when Calpurnia shall
have had better dreams!"

[Sidenote: He persuades him to go.]

He urged, too, that, even if Caesar was determined to put off the action of the Senate to another
day, he was imperiously bound to go himself and adjourn the session in person. So saying, he
took the hesitating potentate by the arm, and adding to his arguments a little gentle force,
conducted him along.

[Sidenote: Artemidorus discovers the plot.] [Sidenote: He warns Caesar.]

The conspirators supposed that all was safe The fact was, however, that all had been discovered.
There was a certain Greek, a teacher of oratory, named Artemidorus. He had contrived to learn
something of the plot from some of the conspirators who were his pupils. He wrote a brief statement
of the leading particulars, and, having no other mode of access to Caesar, he determined to
hand it to him on the way as he went to the senate-house. Of course, the occasion was one of
great public interest, and crowds had assembled in the streets to see the great conqueror as
he went along. As usual at such times, when powerful officers of state appear in public, many
people came up to present petitions to him as he passed. These he received, and handed them,
without reading, to his secretary who attended him, as if to have them preserved for future
examination. Artemidorus, who was waiting for his opportunity, when he perceived what disposition
Caesar made of the papers which were given to him, began to be afraid that his own communication
would not be attended to until it was too late. He accordingly pressed up near to Caesar, refusing
to allow any one else to pass the paper in; and when, at last, he obtained an opportunity,
he gave it directly into Caesar's hands saying to him, "Read this immediately: it concerns
yourself, and is of the utmost importance"

Caesar took the paper and attempted to read it, but new petitions and other interruptions constantly
prevented him; finally he gave up the attempt, and went on his way, receiving and passing to
his secretary all other papers, but retaining this paper of Artemidorus in his hand.

[Sidenote: Caesar and Spurinna.]

Caesar passed Spurinna on his way to the senate-house--the soothsayer who had predicted some
great danger connected with the Ides of March. As soon as he recognized him, he accosted him
with the words, "Well, Spurinna, the Ides of March have come, and I am safe." "Yes," replied
Spurinna, "they have come, but they are not yet over."

[Sidenote: Caesar arrives at the senate house.]

At length he arrived at the senate-house, with the paper of Artemidorus still unread in his
hand. The senators were all convened, the leading conspirators among them. They all rose to
receive Caesar as he entered. Caesar advanced to the seat provided for him, and, when he was
seated, the senators themselves sat down. The moment had now arrived, and the conspirators,
with pale looks and beating hearts, felt that now or never the deed was to be done.

[Sidenote: Resolution of the Conspirators.]

It requires a very considerable degree of physical courage and hardihood for men to come to
a calm and deliberate decision that they will kill one whom they hate, and, still more, actually
to strike the blow, even when under the immediate impulse of passion. But men who are perfectly
capable of either of these often find their resolution fail them as the time comes for striking
a dagger into the living flesh of their victim, when he sits at ease and unconcerned before
them, unarmed and defenseless, and doing nothing to excite those feelings of irritation and
anger which are generally found so necessary to nerve the human arm to such deeds. Utter defenselessness
is accordingly, sometimes, a greater protection than an armor of steel.

[Sidenote: Caesar and Pompey's statue.]

Even Cassius himself, the originator and the soul of the whole enterprise, found his courage
hardly adequate to the work now that the moment had arrived; and, in order to arouse the necessary
excitement in his soul, he looked up to the statue of Pompey, Caesar's ancient and most formidable
enemy, and invoked its aid. It gave him its aid. It inspired him with some portion of the enmity
with which the soul of its great original had burned; and thus the soul of the living assassin
was nerved to its work by a sort of sympathy with a block of stone.

[Sidenote: Plan of the conspirators.]

Foreseeing the necessity of something like a stimulus to action when the immediate moment for
action should arrive, the conspirators had agreed that, as soon as Caesar was seated, they
would approach him with a petition, which he would probably refuse, and then, gathering around
him, they would urge him with their importunities, so as to produce, in the confusion, a sort
of excitement that would make it easier for them to strike the blow. Around the time of slaughter
was of Salamis, Himera and Kyme, the reports of the Roman annals, according, between Rome Veii
and a vieljaehriger and violent war led (271-280 483-474). The Romans suffered in the same heavy
defeats, remained in the memory of the catastrophe of the Fabians (277 477), the result of
internal crises voluntarily exiled from the capital and the defense the boundary between Etruria had
taken over, but here the brook Cremera to the last weapons-men were cut down. But the cease-fire
to 400 months, instead of Peace to war quit, fell to the Romans from far cheaper than it has at least
the status quo of the monarchy restored, and the Etruscans gave up and Fidenae on the right
bank of the Tiber won district. There is no telling how far this Roman-Etruscan War with the
Hellenic-Persian and the Sicilian-Carthaginian in immediate connection stood, but like the Romans, the allies
of the victors of Salamis and Himera been To be or not, the interests of what the impacts met in any
case. As the Latins threw the Samnites to the Etruscans, and no sooner was the establishment
of Campania been cut off by the impact of the meeting at Kyme from the mother country, as
they already was no longer able to resist the attacks of Sabellian Bergvoelker.


[Sidenote: He resists.]

All was now terror, outcry, and confusion Caesar had no time to draw his sword, but fought
a moment with his style, a sharp instrument of iron with which they wrote, in those days, on
waxen tablets, and which he happened then to have in his hand. With this instrument he ran
one of his enemies through the arm. Etruria was still too powerful because, as that Rome would have a serious attack can
take. Only the decrease in Fidenates, which expelled the Roman occupation, the envoys killed
and the king of Veienter, Lars Tolumnius subdued, led a more important war, which expired happy for
the Romans: the king Tolumnius fell in the battle of the hands of the Roman Consul Aulus Cornelius
Cossus (326? 428), Fidenae was taken and 329 (425) signed a new contract down to 200 months. While
the same increased distress Etruria more and more and were close to the Celtic Weapons have so
far been spared the settlements on the right bank of the Po. When the cease-fire had expired end
346 (408), the Romans decided to also turn into a war of conquest against Etruria, which was now led not
only against but to Veii. The story the war against the Veienter, Capenate and Faliscans Veiis and the
siege, the same the Trojan ten years should have granted, little is certified. have forecast
and seal the possession of these events, and rightly, for here was fought with unprecedented
up to that An unprecedented effort to fight up to that price. It was the first time that a Roman
Army summer and winter, year after year in the field, remained stuck until the specified target achieved
was, for the first time that the church paid from state funds pay the levy. But it was also the
first time that the Romans attempted to submit to a foreign nation coming and their weapons
over hinuebertrugen the old northern boundary of the Latin landscape. The fight was enormous,
the outcome hardly in doubt.
 Antony and Lepidus, who were Caesar's
two most faithful and influential friends, not knowing how extensive the conspiracy might be,
nor how far the hostility to Caesar and his party might extend, fled, and, not daring to go
to their own houses, lest the assassins or their confederates might pursue them there, sought
concealment in the houses of friends on whom they supposed they could rely and who were willing
to receive them.

[Sidenote: The Conspirators proceed to the Capitol.] [Sidenote: They glory in their deed.]

In the mean time, the conspirators, glorying In the deed which they had perpetrated, and congratulating
each other on the successful issue of their enterprise, sallied forth together from the senate-house,
leaving the body of their victim weltering in its blood, and marched, with drawn swords in
their hands, along the streets from the senate-house to the Capitol. Brutus went at the head
of them, preceded by a liberty cap borne upon the point of a spear, and with his bloody dagger
in his hand. 2) he has such content from the itself
derived by the same nothing happens, suggesting later times, but rather contains a religious system
in which the germs of all later aufgeblüheten in Asia Religions are included.
 As Brutus and his company proceeded thither, they announced to the citizens,
as they went along, the great deed of deliverance which they had wrought out for the country. For he knew that the mother would prohibit this from now on.

The mother stayed for a time thoughtfully at the window. Your thoughts they always had more
and more exciting employment, because now they started down the room and go forth. And suddenly
she left it and ran here and there, looked for the puss.

She found it finally disappears beneath his bed on the stool, in his melancholy reflections.

"Pussy,"
said the mother, "now tell me where and when you threatened a man and what he you have called
after. "It had not been fun. You know who we earlier this title nachrief, my brother and me.
This moment I have heard of puss that the Incident had occurred on
the night as children in the moonlight on the carriage train were. It shows, however, how strikingly, and
with what reluctance, the actors in this tragedy came up to their work at last, that of all
these twenty-three wounds only one was a mortal one. In fact, it is probable that, while all
of the conspirators struck the victim in their turn, to fulfill the pledge which they had given
to one another that they would every one inflict a wound, each one hoped that the fatal blow
would be given, after all, by some other hand than his own.

[Sidenote: His slaves convey his body home.]

At last the slaves decided to convey the body home. They obtained a sort of chair, which was
made to be borne by poles, and placed the body upon it. Then, lifting at the three handles,
and allowing the fourth to hang unsupported for want of a man, they bore the ghastly remains
home to the distracted Calpurnia. And yet - might be prescribed in Rome, that
in the future with an incident of the Celts, none of the statutory privileges conscientious was to
liberate, there might be expected after the years of the conquest of the city, might this event
reverberate throughout the civilized world and find their way to the Greek annals: the battle
of the Allia with its results is still hardly the momentous historical events reckoned. It
changes not just in the political situation. As the Gauls have left again with their gold,
the only a late and ill-contrived narrative the hero Camillus bring it back to Rome can, as the
fugitives have found home again, the mad idea of ​​some matt-hearted wisdom politicians ueberzusiedeln
the burgesses to Veii, by Camillus' high-minded rebuttal is removed, the affected houses and
disorderly - the narrow, crooked Streets of Rome wrote of that time ago - rising from the rubble,
might also be Rome again commanding in his old position, so it is not unlikely that this event
much, if not for a moment, has contributed to the Contrast between Etruria and Rome to take his
sharpness and especially between Lazio Rome and the bonds of unity to establish new firm.
 In order, however,
to satisfy the people too, as far as possible, they decreed divine honors to Caesar, confirmed
and ratified all that he had done while in the exercise of supreme power, and appointed a time
for the funeral, ordering arrangements to be made for a very pompous celebration of it.

[Sidenote: Caesar's will.] [Sidenote: Its provisions.]

A will was soon found, which Caesar, it seems, had made some time before. Calpurnia's father
proposed that this will should be opened and read in public at Antony's house; and this was
accordingly done. The provisions of the will were, many of them, of such a character as renewed
the feelings of interest and sympathy which the people of Rome had begun to cherish for Caesar's
memory. His vast estate was divided chiefly among the children of his sister, as he had no
children of his own, while the very men who had been most prominent in his assassination were
named as trustees and guardians of the property; and one of them, Decimus Brutus, the one who
had been so urgent to conduct him to the senate-house, was a second heir. He had some splendid
gardens near the Tiber, which he bequeathed to the citizens of Rome, and a large amount of
money also, to be divided among them, sufficient to give every man a considerable sum. But the government was still
strong enough to fear their tools and not just about the most useful purpose to leave unused; brave
officers were often exempted from those provisions ^ 5, and it came before or cases like that
of Quintus Fabius Rullianus that in twenty-eight Years was five times consul, and Marcus Valerius
Corvus (384-483 370-271), who, after he was six consulates, the first in the twenty-third, seventy-second
in the last years, and managed through three generations of the Lair of the peasants and the
terror of the enemy had been, century old went to the pit. -------------------------------------------------
^ 5 Who Konsularverzeichnisse before and after 412 (342) compares, is the existence of above-mentioned
law no doubt about the re-election to the consulate, because so common before this year, the
re-clothing of the Office, especially after three to four years, so frequently after the Zwischenraeume
of ten years and above. But there are, especially during the difficult war years 434-443 (320-311),
except in very large number Strictly If, however, held on the inadmissibility of Aemterkumulierung.
There is no safe Example of combining two of the three regular curule (Livy 39, 39, 4) offices
(Consulate, Praetorship curule aedileship), but other types of cumulation, such as the curule
Aedileship and Reiterfuehreramts (Livy 23 24, 30); the praetorship and censorship (Fast. Capitol. a
501), and the dictatorship of praetorship (Livy 8, 12), the Consulate and the dictatorship (Livy 8,
12). ------------------------------------------------- During So the Roman officials always complete
and more certain of the unlimited Lord in the bound Contractor and managing the community
transformed itself, subject to the old Gegenmagistratur, the Tribune, while a like more internal
than external transformation. The same was in the community to a dual purpose. It had been determined
by house, the poor and the weak. by a virtually revolutionary auxiliary power (auxilium) to
protect against the arrogance of officials of violent and it was later used Back to the legal settlement
of bourgeois and privileges of the nobility sex to eliminate. The latter was achieved. The original
purpose was not merely to be more a democratic ideal as a political opportunity, but also the
plebeian aristocracy in whose hands the tribune had located and considered fully as hated and with
the new, resulting from the adjustment of the stands, perhaps more decisively colored than
the previous aristocratic, totally incompatible with the municipal code as well, as it hated
the sex and needle incompatible with the patrician Konsularverfassung had been.
 The soldiers threw on their lances and spears, the musicians their
instruments, and others stripped off the cloths and trappings from the furniture of the procession,
and heaped them upon the burning pile.

[Sidenote: The conflagration.]

So fierce and extensive was the fire, that it spread to some of the neighboring houses, and
required great efforts to prevent a general conflagration. The people, too, became greatly
excited by the scene. They lighted torches by the fire, and went to the houses of Brutus and
Cassius, threatening vengeance upon them for the murder of Caesar. The authorities succeeded
though with infinite difficulty, in protecting Brutus and Cassius from the violence of the
mob, but they seized one unfortunate citizen of the name of Cinna, thinking it a certain Cinna
who had been known as an enemy of Caesar. They cut off his head, notwithstanding his shrieks
and cries, and carried it about the city on the tip of a pike, a dreadful symbol of their hostility
to the enemies of Caesar. As frequently happens, however, in such deeds of sudden violence,
these hasty and lawless avengers found afterward that they had made a mistake, and beheaded
the wrong man.

[Sidenote: Caesar's monument.] [Sidenote: The comet.]

The Roman people erected a column to the memory of Caesar, on which they placed the inscription,
"To THE FATHER OF HIS COUNTRY." 

"So there," he muttered bitterly.

He took the book itself, looking down his wife and said in a toneless
voice, "Jette, I as a terrible discovery was made. The house has the
signature of the State Council on his Room. "

