People often ask me if I feel nervous before speaking, or else they suggest that, since I speak
often, they suppose that I get used to it. In answer to this question I have to say that I
always suffer intensely from nervousness before speaking. More than once, just before I was
to make an important address, this nervous strain has been so great that I have resolved never
again to speak in public. I not only feel nervous before speaking, but after I have finished
I usually feel a sense of regret, because it seems to me as if I had left out of my address
the main thing and the best thing that I had meant to say.

There is a great compensation, though, for this preliminary nervous suffering, that comes to
me after I have been speaking for about ten minutes, and have come to feel that I have really
mastered my audience, and that we have gotten into full and complete sympathy with each other.
It seems to me that there is rarely such a combination of mental and physical delight in any
effort as that which comes to a public speaker when he feels that he has a great audience completely
within his control. There is a thread of sympathy and oneness that connects a public speaker
with his audience, that is just as strong as though it was something tangible and visible.
If in an audience of a thousand people there is one person who is not in sympathy with my views,
or is inclined to be doubtful, cold, or critical, I can pick him out. When I have found him
I usually go straight at him, and it is a great satisfaction to watch the process of his thawing
out. I find that the most effective medicine for such individuals is administered at first
in the form of a story, although I never tell an anecdote simply for the sake of telling one.
That kind of thing, I think, is empty and hollow, and an audience soon finds it out.

I believe that one always does himself and his audience an injustice when he speaks merely
for the sake of speaking. I do not believe that one should speak unless, deep down in his heart,
he feels convinced that he has a message to deliver. When one feels, from the bottom of his
feet to the top of his head, that he has something to say that is going to help some individual
or some cause, then let him say it; and in delivering his message I do not believe that many
of the artificial rules of elocution can, under such circumstances, help him very much. Although
there are certain things, such as pauses, breathing, and pitch of voice, that are very important,
none of these can take the place of soul in an address. When I have an address to deliver,
I like to forget all about the rules for the proper use of the English language, and all about
rhetoric and that sort of thing, and I like to make the audience forget all about these things,
too.

Nothing tends to throw me off my balance so quickly, when I am speaking, as to have some one
leave the room. To prevent this, I make up my mind, as a rule, that I will try to make my address
so interesting, will try to state so many interesting facts one after another, that no one
can leave. The average audience, I have come to believe, wants facts rather than generalities
or sermonizing. Most people, I think, are able to draw proper conclusions if they are given
the facts in an interesting form on which to base them.

As to the kind of audience that I like best to talk to, I would put at the top of the list
an organization of strong, wide-awake, business men, such, for example, as is found in Boston,
New York, Chicago, and Buffalo. I have found no other audience so quick to see a point, and
so responsive. Within the last few years I have had the privilege of speaking before most of
the leading organizations of this kind in the large cities of the United States. The best time
to get hold of an organization of business men is after a good dinner, although I think that
one of the worst instruments of torture that was ever invented is the custom which makes it
necessary for a speaker to sit through a fourteen-course dinner, every minute of the time feeling
sure that his speech is going to prove a dismal failure and disappointment.

I rarely take part in one of these long dinners that I do not wish that I could put myself
back in the little cabin where I was a slave boy, and again go through the experience there--one
that I shall never forget--of getting molasses to eat once a week from the "big house." Our
usual diet on the plantation was corn bread and pork, but on Sunday morning my mother was permitted
to bring down a little molasses from the "big house" for her three children, and when it was
received how I did wish that every day was Sunday! I would get my tin plate and hold it up
for the sweet morsel, but I would always shut my eyes while the molasses was being poured out
into the plate, with the hope that when I opened them I would be surprised to see how much
I had got. When I opened my eyes I would tip the plate in one direction and another, so as
to make the molasses spread all over it, in the full belief that there would be more of it
and that it would last longer if spread out in this way. So strong are my childish impressions
of those Sunday morning feasts that it would be pretty hard for any one to convince me that
there is not more molasses on a plate when it is spread all over the plate than when it occupies
a little corner--if there is a corner in a plate. At any rate, I have never believed in "cornering"
syrup. My share of the syrup was usually about two tablespoonfuls, and those two spoonfuls
of molasses were much more enjoyable to me than is a fourteen-course dinner after which I am
to speak.

Next to a company of business men, I prefer to speak to an audience of Southern people, of
either race, together or taken separately. Their enthusiasm and responsiveness are a constant
delight. The "amens" and "dat's de truf" that come spontaneously from the coloured individuals
are calculated to spur any speaker on to his best efforts. I think that next in order of preference
I would place a college audience. It has been my privilege to deliver addresses at many of
our leading colleges including Harvard, Yale, Williams, Amherst, Fisk University, the University
of Pennsylvania, Wellesley, the University of Michigan, Trinity College in North Carolina,
and many others.

It has been a matter of deep interest to me to note the number of people who have come to shake
hands with me after an address, who say that this is the first time they have ever called a
Negro "Mister."

When speaking directly in the interests of the Tuskegee Institute, I usually arrange, some
time in advance, a series of meetings in important centres. This takes me before churches,
Sunday-schools, Christian Endeavour Societies, and men's and women's clubs. When doing this
I sometimes speak before as many as four organizations in a single day.

Three years ago, at the suggestion of Mr. Morris K. Jessup, of New York, and Dr. J.L.M. Curry,
the general agent of the fund, the trustees of the John F. Slater Fund voted a sum of money
to be used in paying the expenses of Mrs. Washington and myself while holding a series of meetings
among the coloured people in the large centres of Negro population, especially in the large
cities of the ex-slaveholding states. Each year during the last three years we have devoted
some weeks to this work. The plan that we have followed has been for me to speak in the morning
to the ministers, teachers, and professional men. In the afternoon Mrs. Washington would speak
to the women alone, and in the evening I spoke to a large mass-meeting. In almost every case
the meetings have been attended not only by the coloured people in large numbers, but by the
white people. In Chattanooga, Tenn., for example, there was present at the mass-meeting an
audience of not less than three thousand persons, and I was informed that eight hundred of
these were white. I have done no work that I really enjoyed more than this, or that I think
has accomplished more good.

These meetings have given Mrs. Washington and myself an opportunity to get first-hand, accurate
information as to the real condition of the race, by seeing the people in their homes, their
churches, their Sunday-schools, and their places of work, as well as in the prisons and dens
of crime. These meetings also gave us an opportunity to see the relations that exist between
the races. I never feel so hopeful about the race as I do after being engaged in a series of
these meetings. I know that on such occasions there is much that comes to the surface that
is superficial and deceptive, but I have had experience enough not to be deceived by mere signs
and fleeting enthusiasms. I have taken pains to go to the bottom of things and get facts, in
a cold, business-like manner.

I have seen the statement made lately, by one who claims to know what he is talking about,
that, taking the whole Negro race into account, ninety per cent of the Negro women are not
virtuous. There never was a baser falsehood uttered concerning a race, or a statement made
that was less capable of being proved by actual facts.

No one can come into contact with the race for twenty years, as I have done in the heart of
the South, without being convinced that the race is constantly making slow but sure progress
materially, educationally, and morally. One might take up the life of the worst element in
New York City, for example, and prove almost anything he wanted to prove concerning the white
man, but all will agree that this is not a fair test.

Early in the year 1897 I received a letter inviting me to deliver an address at the dedication
of the Robert Gould Shaw monument in Boston. I accepted the invitation. It is not necessary
for me, I am sure, to explain who Robert Gould Shaw was, and what he did. The monument to his
memory stands near the head of the Boston Common, facing the State House. It is counted to
be the most perfect piece of art of the kind to be found in the country.

The exercises connected with the dedication were held in Music Hall, in Boston, and the great
hall was packed from top to bottom with one of the most distinguished audiences that ever assembled
in the city. Among those present were more persons representing the famous old anti-slavery
element that it is likely will ever be brought together in the country again. The late Hon.
Roger Wolcott, then Governor of Massachusetts, was the presiding officer, and on the platform
with him were many other officials and hundreds of distinguished men. A report of the meeting
which appeared in the Boston Transcript will describe it better than any words of mine could do:--

The core and kernel of yesterday's great noon meeting, in honour of the Brotherhood of Man,
in Music Hall, was the superb address of the Negro President of Tuskegee. "Booker T. Washington
received his Harvard A.M. last June, the first of his race," said Governor Wolcott, "to receive
an honorary degree from the oldest university in the land, and this for the wise leadership
of his people." When Mr. Washington rose in the flag-filled, enthusiasm-warmed, patriotic,
and glowing atmosphere of Music Hall, people felt keenly that here was the civic justification
of the old abolition spirit of Massachusetts; in his person the proof of her ancient and indomitable
faith; in his strong through and rich oratory, the crown and glory of the old war days of suffering
and strife. The scene was full of historic beauty and deep significance. "Cold" Boston was
alive with the fire that is always hot in her heart for righteousness and truth. Rows and rows
of people who are seldom seen at any public function, whole families of those who are certain
to be out of town on a holiday, crowded the place to overflowing. The city was at her birthright
fete in the persons of hundreds of her best citizens, men and women whose names and lives stand
for the virtues that make for honourable civic pride.

Battle-music had filled the air. Ovation after ovation, applause warm and prolonged, had greeted
the officers and friends of Colonel Shaw, the sculptor, St. Gaudens, the memorial Committee,
the Governor and his staff, and the Negro soldiers of the Fifty-fourth Massachusetts as they
came upon the platform or entered the hall. Colonel Henry Lee, of Governor Andrew's old staff,
had made a noble, simple presentation speech for the committee, paying tribute to Mr. John
M. Forbes, in whose stead he served. Governor Wolcott had made his short, memorable speech,
saying, "Fort Wagner marked an epoch in the history of a race, and called it into manhood."
Mayor Quincy had received the monument for the city of Boston. The story of Colonel Shaw and
his black regiment had been told in gallant words, and then, after the singing of

     Mine eyes have seen the glory
     Of the coming of the Lord,

Booker Washington arose. It was, of course, just the moment for him. The multitude, shaken
out of its usual symphony-concert calm, quivered with an excitement that was not suppressed.
A dozen times it had sprung to its feet to cheer and wave and hurrah, as one person. When this
man of culture and voice and power, as well as a dark skin, began, and uttered the names of
Stearns and of Andrew, feeling began to mount. You could see tears glisten in the eyes of soldiers
and civilians. When the orator turned to the coloured soldiers on the platform, to the colour-bearer
of Fort Wagner, who smilingly bore still the flag he had never lowered even when wounded, and
said, "To you, to the scarred and scattered remnants of the Fifty-fourth, who, with empty sleeve
and wanting leg, have honoured this occasion with your presence, to you, your commander is
not dead. Though Boston erected no monument and history recorded no story, in you and in the
loyal race which you represent, Robert Gould Shaw would have a monument which time could not
wear away," then came the climax of the emotion of the day and the hour. It was Roger Wolcott,
as well as the Governor of Massachusetts, the individual representative of the people's sympathy
as well as the chief magistrate, who had sprung first to his feet and cried, "Three cheers
to Booker T. Washington!"

Among those on the platform was Sergeant William H. Carney, of New Bedford, Mass., the brave
coloured officer who was the colour-bearer at Fort Wagner and held the American flag. In spite
of the fact that a large part of his regiment was killed, he escaped, and exclaimed, after
the battle was over, "The old flag never touched the ground."

This flag Sergeant Carney held in his hands as he sat on the platform, and when I turned to
address the survivors of the coloured regiment who were present, and referred to Sergeant Carney,
he rose, as if by instinct, and raised the flag. It has been my privilege to witness a good
many satisfactory and rather sensational demonstrations in connection with some of my public
addresses, but in dramatic effect I have never seen or experienced anything which equalled
this. For a number of minutes the audience seemed to entirely lose control of itself.

In the general rejoicing throughout the country which followed the close of the Spanish-American
war, peace celebrations were arranged in several of the large cities. I was asked by President
William R. Harper, of the University of Chicago, who was chairman of the committee of invitations
for the celebration to be held in the city of Chicago, to deliver one of the addresses at the
celebration there. I accepted the invitation, and delivered two addresses there during the
Jubilee week. The first of these, and the principal one, was given in the Auditorium, on the
evening of Sunday, October 16. This was the largest audience that I have ever addressed, in
any part of the country; and besides speaking in the main Auditorium, I also addressed, that
same evening, two overflow audiences in other parts of the city.

It was said that there were sixteen thousand persons in the Auditorium, and it seemed to me
as if there were as many more on the outside trying to get in. It was impossible for any one
to get near the entrance without the aid of a policeman. President William McKinley attended
this meeting, as did also the members of his Cabinet, many foreign ministers, and a large number
of army and navy officers, many of whom had distinguished themselves in the war which had just
closed. The speakers, besides myself, on Sunday evening, were Rabbi Emil G. Hirsch, Father
Thomas P. Hodnett, and Dr. John H. Barrows.

The Chicago Times-Herald, in describing the meeting, said of my address:--

He pictured the Negro choosing slavery rather than extinction; recalled Crispus Attucks shedding
his blood at the beginning of the American Revolution, that white Americans might be free,
while black Americans remained in slavery; rehearsed the conduct of the Negroes with Jackson
at New Orleans; drew a vivid and pathetic picture of the Southern slaves protecting and supporting
the families of their masters while the latter were fighting to perpetuate black slavery; recounted
the bravery of coloured troops at Port Hudson and Forts Wagner and Pillow, and praised the
heroism of the black regiments that stormed El Caney and Santiago to give freedom to the enslaved
people of Cuba, forgetting, for the time being, the unjust discrimination that law and custom
make against them in their own country.

In all of these things, the speaker declared, his race had chosen the better part. And then
he made his eloquent appeal to the consciences of the white Americans: "When you have gotten
the full story of the heroic conduct of the Negro in the Spanish-American war, have heard it
from the lips of Northern soldier and Southern soldier, from ex-abolitionist and ex-masters,
then decide within yourselves whether a race that is thus willing to die for its country should
not be given the highest opportunity to live for its country."

The part of the speech which seems to arouse the wildest and most sensational enthusiasm was
that in which I thanked the President for his recognition of the Negro in his appointments
during the Spanish-American war. The President was sitting in a box at the right of the stage.
When I addressed him I turned toward the box, and as I finished the sentence thanking him for
his generosity, the whole audience rose and cheered again and again, waving handkerchiefs and
hats and canes, until the President arose in the box and bowed his acknowledgements. At that
the enthusiasm broke out again, and the demonstration was almost indescribable.

One portion of my address at Chicago seemed to have been misunderstood by the Southern press,
and some of the Southern papers took occasion to criticise me rather strongly. These criticisms
continued for several weeks, until I finally received a letter from the editor of the Age-Herald,
published in Birmingham, Ala., asking me if I would say just what I meant by this part of the
address. I replied to him in a letter which seemed to satisfy my critics. In this letter I
said that I had made it a rule never to say before a Northern audience anything that I would
not say before an audience in the South. I said that I did not think it was necessary for me
to go into extended explanations; if my seventeen years of work in the heart of the South had
not been explanation enough, I did not see how words could explain. I said that I made the
same plea that I had made in my address at Atlanta, for the blotting out of race prejudice
in "commercial and civil relations." I said that what is termed social recognition was a question
which I never discussed, and then I quoted from my Atlanta address what I had said there in
regard to that subject.

In meeting crowds of people at public gatherings, there is one type of individual that I dread.
I mean the crank. I have become so accustomed to these people now that I can pick them out
at a distance when I see them elbowing their way up to me. The average crank has a long beard,
poorly cared for, a lean, narrow face, and wears a black coat. The front of his vest and coat
are slick with grease, and his trousers bag at the knees.

In Chicago, after I had spoken at a meeting, I met one of these fellows. They usually have
some process for curing all of the ills of the world at once. This Chicago specimen had a patent
process by which he said Indian corn could be kept through a period of three or four years,
and he felt sure that if the Negro race in the South would, as a whole, adopt his process,
it would settle the whole race question. It mattered nothing that I tried to convince him that
our present problem was to teach the Negroes how to produce enough corn to last them through
one year. Another Chicago crank had a scheme by which he wanted me to join him in an effort
to close up all the National banks in the country. If that was done, he felt sure it would
put the Negro on his feet.

The number of people who stand ready to consume one's time, to no purpose, is almost countless.
At one time I spoke before a large audience in Boston in the evening. The next morning I was
awakened by having a card brought to my room, and with it a message that some one was anxious
to see me. Thinking that it must be something very important, I dressed hastily and went down.
When I reached the hotel office I found a blank and innocent-looking individual waiting for
me, who coolly remarked: "I heard you talk at a meeting last night. I rather liked your talk,
and so I came in this morning to hear you talk some more."

I am often asked how it is possible for me to superintend the work at Tuskegee and at the same
time be so much away from the school. In partial answer to this I would say that I think I
have learned, in some degree at least, to disregard the old maxim which says, "Do not get others
to do that which you can do yourself." My motto, on the other hand, is, "Do not do that which
others can do as well."

One of the most encouraging signs in connection with the Tuskegee school is found in the fact
that the organization is so thorough that the daily work of the school is not dependent upon
the presence of any one individual. The whole executive force, including instructors and clerks,
now numbers eighty-six. This force is so organized and subdivided that the machinery of the
school goes on day by day like clockwork. Most of our teachers have been connected with the
institutions for a number of years, and are as much interested in it as I am. In my absence,
Mr. Warren Logan, the treasurer, who has been at the school seventeen years, is the executive.
He is efficiently supported by Mrs. Washington, and by my faithful secretary, Mr. Emmett J.
Scott, who handles the bulk of my correspondence and keeps me in daily touch with the life
of the school, and who also keeps me informed of whatever takes place in the South that concerns
the race. I owe more to his tact, wisdom, and hard work than I can describe.

The main executive work of the school, whether I am at Tuskegee or not, centres in what we
call the executive council. This council meets twice a week, and is composed of the nine persons
who are at the head of the nine departments of the school. For example: Mrs. B.K. Bruce, the
Lady Principal, the widow of the late ex-senator Bruce, is a member of the council, and represents
in it all that pertains to the life of the girls at the school. In addition to the executive
council there is a financial committee of six, that meets every week and decides upon the expenditures
for the week. Once a month, and sometimes oftener, there is a general meeting of all the instructors.
Aside from these there are innumerable smaller meetings, such as that of the instructors in
the Phelps Hall Bible Training School, or of the instructors in the agricultural department.

In order that I may keep in constant touch with the life of the institution, I have a system
of reports so arranged that a record of the school's work reaches me every day of the year,
no matter in what part of the country I am. I know by these reports even what students are
excused from school, and why they are excused--whether for reasons of ill health or otherwise.
Through the medium of these reports I know each day what the income of the school in money
is; I know how many gallons of milk and how many pounds of butter come from the dairy; what
the bill of fare for the teachers and students is; whether a certain kind of meat was boiled
or baked, and whether certain vegetables served in the dining room were bought from a store
or procured from our own farm. Human nature I find to be very much the same the world over,
and it is sometimes not hard to yield to the temptation to go to a barrel of rice that has
come from the store--with the grain all prepared to go in the pot--rather than to take the
time and trouble to go to the field and dig and wash one's own sweet potatoes, which might
be prepared in a manner to take the place of the rice.

I am often asked how, in the midst of so much work, a large part of which is for the public,
I can find time for any rest or recreation, and what kind of recreation or sports I am fond
of. This is rather a difficult question to answer. I have a strong feeling that every individual
owes it to himself, and to the cause which he is serving, to keep a vigorous, healthy body,
with the nerves steady and strong, prepared for great efforts and prepared for disappointments
and trying positions. As far as I can, I make it a rule to plan for each day's work--not merely
to go through with the same routine of daily duties, but to get rid of the routine work as
early in the day as possible, and then to enter upon some new or advance work. I make it a
rule to clear my desk every day, before leaving my office, of all correspondence and memoranda,
so that on the morrow I can begin a NEW day of work. I make it a rule never to let my work
drive me, but to so master it, and keep it in such complete control, and to keep so far ahead
of it, that I will be the master instead of the servant. There is a physical and mental and
spiritual enjoyment that comes from a consciousness of being the absolute master of one's work,
in all its details, that is very satisfactory and inspiring. My experience teaches me that,
if one learns to follow this plan, he gets a freshness of body and vigour of mind out of work
that goes a long way toward keeping him strong and healthy. I believe that when one can grow
to the point where he loves his work, this gives him a kind of strength that is most valuable.

When I begin my work in the morning, I expect to have a successful and pleasant day of it,
but at the same time I prepare myself for unpleasant and unexpected hard places. I prepared
myself to hear that one of our school buildings is on fire, or has burned, or that some disagreeable
accident has occurred, or that some one has abused me in a public address or printed article,
for something that I have done or omitted to do, or for something that he had heard that I
had said--probably something that I had never thought of saying.

In nineteen years of continuous work I have taken but one vacation. That was two years ago,
when some of my friends put the money into my hands and forced Mrs. Washington and myself to
spend three months in Europe. I have said that I believe it is the duty of every one to keep
his body in good condition. I try to look after the little ills, with the idea that if I take
care of the little ills the big ones will not come. When I find myself unable to sleep well,
I know that something is wrong. If I find any part of my system the least weak, and not performing
its duty, I consult a good physician. The ability to sleep well, at any time and in any place,
I find of great advantage. I have so trained myself that I can lie down for a nap of fifteen
or twenty minutes, and get up refreshed in body and mind.

I have said that I make it a rule to finish up each day's work before leaving it. There is,
perhaps, one exception to this. When I have an unusually difficult question to decide--one
that appeals strongly to the emotions--I find it a safe rule to sleep over it for a night,
or to wait until I have had an opportunity to talk it over with my wife and friends.

As to my reading; the most time I get for solid reading is when I am on the cars. Newspapers
are to me a constant source of delight and recreation. The only trouble is that I read too
many of them. Fiction I care little for. Frequently I have to almost force myself to read a
novel that is on every one's lips. The kind of reading that I have the greatest fondness for
is biography. I like to be sure that I am reading about a real man or a real thing. I think
I do not go too far when I say that I have read nearly every book and magazine article that
has been written about Abraham Lincoln. In literature he is my patron saint.

Out of the twelve months in a year I suppose that, on an average, I spend six months away from
Tuskegee. While my being absent from the school so much unquestionably has its disadvantages,
yet there are at the same time some compensations. The change of work brings a certain kind
of rest. I enjoy a ride of a long distance on the cars, when I am permitted to ride where I
can be comfortable. I get rest on the cars, except when the inevitable individual who seems
to be on every train approaches me with the now familiar phrase: "Isn't this Booker Washington?
I want to introduce myself to you." Absence from the school enables me to lose sight of the
unimportant details of the work, and study it in a broader and more comprehensive manner than
I could do on the grounds. This absence also brings me into contact with the best work being
done in educational lines, and into contact with the best educators in the land.

But, after all this is said, the time when I get the most solid rest and recreation is when
I can be at Tuskegee, and, after our evening meal is over, can sit down, as is our custom,
with my wife and Portia and Baker and Davidson, my three children, and read a story, or each
take turns in telling a story. To me there is nothing on earth equal to that, although what
is nearly equal to it is to go with them for an hour or more, as we like to do on Sunday afternoons,
into the woods, where we can live for a while near the heart of nature, where no one can disturb
or vex us, surrounded by pure air, the trees, the shrubbery, the flowers, and the sweet fragrance
that springs from a hundred plants, enjoying the chirp of the crickets and the songs of the
birds. This is solid rest.

My garden, also, what little time I can be at Tuskegee, is another source of rest and enjoyment.
Somehow I like, as often as possible, to touch nature, not something that is artificial or
an imitation, but the real thing. When I can leave my office in time so that I can spend thirty
or forty minutes in spading the ground, in planting seeds, in digging about the plants, I feel
that I am coming into contact with something that is giving me strength for the many duties
and hard places that await me out in the big world. I pity the man or woman who has never learned
to enjoy nature and to get strength and inspiration out of it.

Aside from the large number of fowls and animals kept by the school, I keep individually a
number of pigs and fowls of the best grades, and in raising these I take a great deal of pleasure.
I think the pig is my favourite animal. Few things are more satisfactory to me than a high-grade
Berkshire or Poland China pig.

Games I care little for. I have never seen a game of football. In cards I do not know one card
from another. A game of old-fashioned marbles with my two boys, once in a while, is all I care
for in this direction. I suppose I would care for games now if I had had any time in my youth
to give to them, but that was not possible.

Chapter XVI. Europe

In 1893 I was married to Miss Margaret James Murray, a native of Mississippi, and a graduate
of Fisk University, in Nashville, Tenn., who had come to Tuskegee as a teacher several years
before, and at the time we were married was filling the position of Lady Principal. Not only
is Mrs. Washington completely one with me in the work directly connected with the school, relieving
me of many burdens and perplexities, but aside from her work on the school grounds, she carries
on a mothers' meeting in the town of Tuskegee, and a plantation work among the women, children,
and men who live in a settlement connected with a large plantation about eight miles from Tuskegee.
Both the mothers' meeting and the plantation work are carried on, not only with a view to helping
those who are directly reached, but also for the purpose of furnishing object-lessons in these
two kinds of work that may be followed by our students when they go out into the world for
their own life-work.

Aside from these two enterprises, Mrs. Washington is also largely responsible for a woman's
club at the school which brings together, twice a month, the women who live on the school grounds
and those who live near, for the discussion of some important topic. She is also the President
of what is known as the Federation of Southern Coloured Women's Clubs, and is Chairman of the
Executive Committee of the National Federation of Coloured Women's Clubs.

Portia, the oldest of my three children, has learned dressmaking. She has unusual ability in
instrumental music. Aside from her studies at Tuskegee, she has already begun to teach there.

Booker Taliaferro is my next oldest child. Young as he is, he has already nearly mastered the
brickmason's trade. He began working at this trade when he was quite small, dividing his time
between this and class work; and he has developed great skill in the trade and a fondness for
it. He says that he is going to be an architect and brickmason. One of the most satisfactory
letters that I have ever received from any one came to me from Booker last summer. When I left
home for the summer, I told him that he must work at his trade half of each day, and that the
other half of the day he could spend as he pleased. When I had been away from home two weeks,
I received the following letter from him:

Tuskegee, Alabama.

My dear Papa: Before you left home you told me to work at my trade half of each day. I like
my work so much that I want to work at my trade all day. Besides, I want to earn all the money
I can, so that when I go to another school I shall have money to pay my expenses.

Your son,

Booker.

My youngest child, Earnest Davidson Washington, says that he is going to be a physician. In
addition to going to school, where he studies books and has manual training, he regularly spends
a portion of his time in the office of our resident physician, and has already learned to do
many of the studies which pertain to a doctor's office.

The thing in my life which brings me the keenest regret is that my work in connection with
public affairs keeps me for so much of the time away from my family, where, of all places in
the world, I delight to be. I always envy the individual whose life-work is so laid that he
can spend his evenings at home. I have sometimes thought that people who have this rare privilege
do not appreciate it as they should. It is such a rest and relief to get away from crowds of
people, and handshaking, and travelling, to get home, even if it be for but a very brief while.

Another thing at Tuskegee out of which I get a great deal of pleasure and satisfaction is in
the meeting with our students, and teachers, and their families, in the chapel for devotional
exercises every evening at half-past eight, the last thing before retiring for the night. It
is an inspiring sight when one stands on the platform there and sees before him eleven or twelve
hundred earnest young men and women; and one cannot but feel that it is a privilege to help
to guide them to a higher and more useful life.

In the spring of 1899 there came to me what I might describe as almost the greatest surprise
of my life. Some good ladies in Boston arranged a public meeting in the interests of Tuskegee,
to be held in the Hollis Street Theatre. This meeting was attended by large numbers of the
best people of Boston, of both races. Bishop Lawrence presided. In addition to an address made
by myself, Mr. Paul Lawrence Dunbar read from his poems, and Dr. W.E.B. Du Bois read an original
sketch.

Some of those who attended this meeting noticed that I seemed unusually tired, and some little
time after the close of the meeting, one of the ladies who had been interested in it asked
me in a casual way if I had ever been to Europe. I replied that I never had. She asked me if
I had ever thought of going, and I told her no; that it was something entirely beyond me. This
conversation soon passed out of my mind, but a few days afterward I was informed that some
friends in Boston, including Mr. Francis J. Garrison, had raised a sum of money sufficient
to pay all the expenses of Mrs. Washington and myself during a three or four months' trip to
Europe. It was added with emphasis that we MUST go. A year previous to this Mr. Garrison had
attempted to get me to promise to go to Europe for a summer's rest, with the understanding
that he would be responsible for raising the money among his friends for the expenses of the
trip. At that time such a journey seemed so entirely foreign to anything that I should ever
be able to undertake that I did confess I did not give the matter very serious attention; but
later Mr. Garrison joined his efforts to those of the ladies whom I have mentioned, and when
their plans were made known to me Mr. Garrison not only had the route mapped out, but had,
I believe, selected the steamer upon which we were to sail.

The whole thing was so sudden and so unexpected that I was completely taken off my feet. I
had been at work steadily for eighteen years in connection with Tuskegee, and I had never thought
of anything else but ending my life in that way. Each day the school seemed to depend upon
me more largely for its daily expenses, and I told these Boston friends that, while I thanked
them sincerely for their thoughtfulness and generosity, I could not go to Europe, for the reason
that the school could not live financially while I was absent. They then informed me that Mr.
Henry L. Higginson, and some other good friends who I know do not want their names made public,
were then raising a sum of money which would be sufficient to keep the school in operation
while I was away. At this point I was compelled to surrender. Every avenue of escape had been
closed.

Deep down in my heart the whole thing seemed more like a dream than like reality, and for a
long time it was difficult for me to make myself believe that I was actually going to Europe.
I had been born and largely reared in the lowest depths of slavery, ignorance, and poverty.
In my childhood I had suffered for want of a place to sleep, for lack of food, clothing, and
shelter. I had not had the privilege of sitting down to a dining-table until I was quite well
grown. Luxuries had always seemed to me to be something meant for white people, not for my
race. I had always regarded Europe, and London, and Paris, much as I regarded heaven. And now
could it be that I was actually going to Europe? Such thoughts as these were constantly with me.

Two other thoughts troubled me a good deal. I feared that people who heard that Mrs. Washington
and I were going to Europe might not know all the circumstances, and might get the idea that
we had become, as some might say, "stuck up," and were trying to "show off." I recalled that
from my youth I had heard it said that too often, when people of my race reached any degree
of success, they were inclined to unduly exalt themselves; to try and ape the wealthy, and
in so doing to lose their heads. The fear that people might think this of us haunted me a good
deal. Then, too, I could not see how my conscience would permit me to spare the time from my
work and be happy. It seemed mean and selfish in me to be taking a vacation while others were
at work, and while there was so much that needed to be done. From the time I could remember,
I had always been at work, and I did not see how I could spend three or four months in doing
nothing. The fact was that I did not know how to take a vacation.

Mrs. Washington had much the same difficulty in getting away, but she was anxious to go because
she thought that I needed the rest. There were many important National questions bearing upon
the life of the race which were being agitated at that time, and this made it all the harder
for us to decide to go. We finally gave our Boston friends our promise that we would go, and
then they insisted that the date of our departure be set as soon as possible. So we decided
upon May 10. My good friend Mr. Garrison kindly took charge of all the details necessary for
the success of the trip, and he, as well as other friends, gave us a great number of letters
of introduction to people in France and England, and made other arrangements for our comfort
and convenience abroad. Good-bys were said at Tuskegee, and we were in New York May 9, ready
to sail the next day. Our daughter Portia, who was then studying in South Framingham, Mass.,
came to New York to see us off. Mr. Scott, my secretary, came with me to New York, in order
that I might clear up the last bit of business before I left. Other friends also came to New
York to see us off. Just before we went on board the steamer another pleasant surprise came
to us in the form of a letter from two generous ladies, stating that they had decided to give
us the money with which to erect a new building to be used in properly housing all our industries
for girls at Tuskegee.

We were to sail on the Friesland, of the Red Star Line, and a beautiful vessel she was. We
went on board just before noon, the hour of sailing. I had never before been on board a large
ocean steamer, and the feeling which took possession of me when I found myself there is rather
hard to describe. It was a feeling, I think, of awe mingled with delight. We were agreeably
surprised to find that the captain, as well as several of the other officers, not only knew
who we were, but was expecting us and gave us a pleasant greeting. There were several passengers
whom we knew, including Senator Sewell, of New Jersey, and Edward Marshall, the newspaper correspondent.
I had just a little fear that we would not be treated civilly by some of the passengers. This
fear was based upon what I had heard other people of my race, who had crossed the ocean, say
about unpleasant experiences in crossing the ocean in American vessels. But in our case, from
the captain down to the most humble servant, we were treated with the greatest kindness. Nor
was this kindness confined to those who were connected with the steamer; it was shown by all
the passengers also. There were not a few Southern men and women on board, and they were as
cordial as those from other parts of the country.

As soon as the last good-bys were said, and the steamer had cut loose from the wharf, the load
of care, anxiety, and responsibility which I had carried for eighteen years began to lift itself
from my shoulders at the rate, it seemed to me, of a pound a minute. It was the first time
in all those years that I had felt, even in a measure, free from care; and my feeling of relief
it is hard to describe on paper. Added to this was the delightful anticipation of being in
Europe soon. It all seemed more like a dream than like a reality.

Mr. Garrison had thoughtfully arranged to have us have one of the most comfortable rooms on
the ship. The second or third day out I began to sleep, and I think that I slept at the rate
of fifteen hours a day during the remainder of the ten days' passage. Then it was that I began
to understand how tired I really was. These long sleeps I kept up for a month after we landed
on the other side. It was such an unusual feeling to wake up in the morning and realize that
I had no engagements; did not have to take a train at a certain hour; did not have an appointment
to meet some one, or to make an address, at a certain hour. How different all this was from
the experiences that I have been through when travelling, when I have sometimes slept in three
different beds in a single night!

When Sunday came, the captain invited me to conduct the religious services, but, not being
a minister, I declined. The passengers, however, began making requests that I deliver an address
to them in the dining-saloon some time during the voyage, and this I consented to do. Senator
Sewell presided at this meeting. After ten days of delightful weather, during which I was not
seasick for a day, we landed at the interesting old city of Antwerp, in Belgium.

The next day after we landed happened to be one of those numberless holidays which the people
of those countries are in the habit of observing. It was a bright, beautiful day. Our room
in the hotel faced the main public square, and the sights there--the people coming in from
the country with all kinds of beautiful flowers to sell, the women coming in with their dogs
drawing large, brightly polished cans filled with milk, the people streaming into the cathedral--filled
me with a sense of newness that I had never before experienced.

After spending some time in Antwerp, we were invited to go with a part of a half-dozen persons
on a trip through Holland. This party included Edward Marshall and some American artists who
had come over on the same steamer with us. We accepted the invitation, and enjoyed the trip
greatly. I think it was all the more interesting and instructive because we went for most of
the way on one of the slow, old-fashioned canal-boats. This gave us an opportunity of seeing
and studying the real life of the people in the country districts. We went in this way as far
as Rotterdam, and later went to The Hague, where the Peace Conference was then in session,
and where we were kindly received by the American representatives.

The thing that impressed itself most on me in Holland was the thoroughness of the agriculture
and the excellence of the Holstein cattle. I never knew, before visiting Holland, how much
it was possible for people to get out of a small plot of ground. It seemed to me that absolutely
no land was wasted. It was worth a trip to Holland, too, just to get a sight of three or four
hundred fine Holstein cows grazing in one of those intensely green fields.

From Holland we went to Belgium, and made a hasty trip through that country, stopping at Brussels,
where we visited the battlefield of Waterloo. From Belgium we went direct to Paris, where we
found that Mr. Theodore Stanton, the son of Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, had kindly provided
accommodations for us. We had barely got settled in Paris before an invitation came to me from
the University Club of Paris to be its guest at a banquet which was soon to be given. The other
guests were ex-President Benjamin Harrison and Archbishop Ireland, who were in Paris at the
time. The American Ambassador, General Horace Porter, presided at the banquet. My address on
this occasion seemed to give satisfaction to those who heard it. General Harrison kindly devoted
a large portion of his remarks at dinner to myself and to the influence of the work at Tuskegee
on the American race question. After my address at this banquet other invitations came to me,
but I declined the most of them, knowing that if I accepted them all, the object of my visit
would be defeated. I did, however, consent to deliver an address in the American chapel the
following Sunday morning, and at this meeting General Harrison, General Porter, and other distinguished
Americans were present.

Later we received a formal call from the American Ambassador, and were invited to attend a
reception at his residence. At this reception we met many Americans, among them Justices Fuller
and Harlan, of the United States Supreme Court. During our entire stay of a month in Paris,
both the American Ambassador and his wife, as well as several other Americans, were very kind
to us.

While in Paris we saw a good deal of the now famous American Negro painter, Mr. Henry O. Tanner,
whom we had formerly known in America. It was very satisfactory to find how well known Mr.
Tanner was in the field of art, and to note the high standing which all classes accorded to
him. When we told some Americans that we were going to the Luxembourg Palace to see a painting
by an American Negro, it was hard to convince them that a Negro had been thus honoured. I do
not believe that they were really convinced of the fact until they saw the picture for themselves.
My acquaintance with Mr. Tanner reenforced in my mind the truth which I am constantly trying
to impress upon our students at Tuskegee--and on our people throughout the country, as far
as I can reach them with my voice--that any man, regardless of colour, will be recognized and
rewarded just in proportion as he learns to do something well--learns to do it better than
some one else--however humble the thing may be. As I have said, I believe that my race will
succeed in proportion as it learns to do a common thing in an uncommon manner; learns to do
a thing so thoroughly that no one can improve upon what it has done; learns to make its services
of indispensable value. This was the spirit that inspired me in my first effort at Hampton,
when I was given the opportunity to sweep and dust that schoolroom. In a degree I felt that
my whole future life depended upon the thoroughness with which I cleaned that room, and I was
determined to do it so well that no one could find any fault with the job. Few people ever
stopped, I found, when looking at his pictures, to inquire whether Mr. Tanner was a Negro painter,
a French painter, or a German painter. They simply knew that he was able to produce something
which the world wanted--a great painting--and the matter of his colour did not enter into their
minds. When a Negro girl learns to cook, to wash dishes, to sew, or write a book, or a Negro
boy learns to groom horses, or to grow sweet potatoes, or to produce butter, or to build a
house, or to be able to practise medicine, as well or better than some one else, they will
be rewarded regardless of race or colour. In the long run, the world is going to have the best,
and any difference in race, religion, or previous history will not long keep the world from
what it wants.

I think that the whole future of my race hinges on the question as to whether or not it can
make itself of such indispensable value that the people in the town and the state where we
reside will feel that our presence is necessary to the happiness and well-being of the community.
No man who continues to add something to the material, intellectual, and moral well-being of
the place in which he lives is long left without proper reward. This is a great human law which
cannot be permanently nullified.

The love of pleasure and excitement which seems in a large measure to possess the French people
impressed itself upon me. I think they are more noted in this respect than is true of the people
of my own race. In point of morality and moral earnestness I do not believe that the French
are ahead of my own race in America. Severe competition and the great stress of life have led
them to learn to do things more thoroughly and to exercise greater economy; but time, I think,
will bring my race to the same point. In the matter of truth and high honour I do not believe
that the average Frenchman is ahead of the American Negro; while so far as mercy and kindness
to dumb animals go, I believe that my race is far ahead. In fact, when I left France, I had
more faith in the future of the black man in America than I had ever possessed.

From Paris we went to London, and reached there early in July, just about the height of the
London social season. Parliament was in session, and there was a great deal of gaiety. Mr.
Garrison and other friends had provided us with a large number of letters of introduction,
and they had also sent letters to other persons in different parts of the United Kingdom, apprising
these people of our coming. Very soon after reaching London we were flooded with invitations
to attend all manner of social functions, and a great many invitations came to me asking that
I deliver public addresses. The most of these invitations I declined, for the reason that I
wanted to rest. Neither were we able to accept more than a small proportion of the other invitations.
The Rev. Dr. Brooke Herford and Mrs. Herford, whom I had known in Boston, consulted with the
American Ambassador, the Hon. Joseph Choate, and arranged for me to speak at a public meeting
to be held in Essex Hall. Mr. Choate kindly consented to preside. The meeting was largely attended.
There were many distinguished persons present, among them several members of Parliament, including
Mr. James Bryce, who spoke at the meeting. What the American Ambassador said in introducing
me, as well as a synopsis of what I said, was widely published in England and in the American
papers at the time. Dr. and Mrs. Herford gave Mrs. Washington and myself a reception, at which
we had the privilege of meeting some of the best people in England. Throughout our stay in
London Ambassador Choate was most kind and attentive to us. At the Ambassador's reception I
met, for the first time, Mark Twain.

We were the guests several times of Mrs. T. Fisher Unwin, the daughter of the English statesman,
Richard Cobden. It seemed as if both Mr. and Mrs. Unwin could not do enough for our comfort
and happiness. Later, for nearly a week, we were the guests of the daughter of John Bright,
now Mrs. Clark, of Street, England. Both Mr. and Mrs. Clark, with their daughter, visited us
at Tuskegee the next year. In Birmingham, England, we were the guests for several days of Mr.
Joseph Sturge, whose father was a great abolitionist and friend of Whittier and Garrison. It
was a great privilege to meet throughout England those who had known and honoured the late
William Lloyd Garrison, the Hon. Frederick Douglass, and other abolitionists. The English abolitionists
with whom we came in contact never seemed to tire of talking about these two Americans. Before
going to England I had had no proper conception of the deep interest displayed by the abolitionists
of England in the cause of freedom, nor did I realize the amount of substantial help given by them.

In Bristol, England, both Mrs. Washington and I spoke at the Women's Liberal Club. I was also
the principal speaker at the Commencement exercises of the Royal College for the Blind. These
exercises were held in the Crystal Palace, and the presiding officer was the late Duke of Westminster,
who was said to be, I believe, the richest man in England, if not in the world. The Duke, as
well as his wife and their daughter, seemed to be pleased with what I said, and thanked me
heartily. Through the kindness of Lady Aberdeen, my wife and I were enabled to go with a party
of those who were attending the International Congress of Women, then in session in London,
to see Queen Victoria, at Windsor Castle, where, afterward, we were all the guests of her Majesty
at tea. In our party was Miss Susan B. Anthony, and I was deeply impressed with the fact that
one did not often get an opportunity to see, during the same hour, two women so remarkable
in different ways as Susan B. Anthony and Queen Victoria.

In the House of Commons, which we visited several times, we met Sir Henry M. Stanley. I talked
with him about Africa and its relation to the American Negro, and after my interview with him
I became more convinced than ever that there was no hope of the American Negro's improving
his condition by emigrating to Africa.

On various occasions Mrs. Washington and I were the guests of Englishmen in their country homes,
where, I think, one sees the Englishman at his best. In one thing, at least, I feel sure that
the English are ahead of Americans, and that is, that they have learned how to get more out
of life. The home life of the English seems to me to be about as perfect as anything can be.
Everything moves like clockwork. I was impressed, too, with the deference that the servants
show to their "masters" and "mistresses,"--terms which I suppose would not be tolerated in
America. The English servant expects, as a rule, to be nothing but a servant, and so he perfects
himself in the art to a degree that no class of servants in America has yet reached. In our
country the servant expects to become, in a few years, a "master" himself. Which system is
preferable? I will not venture an answer.

Another thing that impressed itself upon me throughout England was the high regard that all
classes have for law and order, and the ease and thoroughness with which everything is done.
The Englishmen, I found, took plenty of time for eating, as for everything else. I am not sure
if, in the long run, they do not accomplish as much or more than rushing, nervous Americans do.

My visit to England gave me a higher regard for the nobility than I had had. I had no idea
that they were so generally loved and respected by the classes, nor that I any correct conception
of how much time and money they spent in works of philanthropy, and how much real heart they
put into this work. My impression had been that they merely spent money freely and had a "good
time."

It was hard for me to get accustomed to speaking to English audiences. The average Englishman
is so serious, and is so tremendously in earnest about everything, that when I told a story
that would have made an American audience roar with laughter, the Englishmen simply looked
me straight in the face without even cracking a smile.

When the Englishman takes you into his heart and friendship, he binds you there as with cords
of steel, and I do not believe that there are many other friendships that are so lasting or
so satisfactory. Perhaps I can illustrate this point in no better way than by relating the
following incident. Mrs. Washington and I were invited to attend a reception given by the Duke
and Duchess of Sutherland, at Stafford House--said to be the finest house in London; I may
add that I believe the Duchess of Sutherland is said to be the most beautiful woman in England.
There must have been at least three hundred persons at this reception. Twice during the evening
the Duchess sought us out for a conversation, and she asked me to write her when we got home,
and tell her more about the work at Tuskegee. This I did. When Christmas came we were surprised
and delighted to receive her photograph with her autograph on it. The correspondence has continued,
and we now feel that in the Duchess of Sutherland we have one of our warmest friends.

After three months in Europe we sailed from Southampton in the steamship St. Louis. On this
steamer there was a fine library that had been presented to the ship by the citizens of St.
Louis, Mo. In this library I found a life of Frederick Douglass, which I began reading. I became
especially interested in Mr. Douglass's description of the way he was treated on shipboard
during his first or second visit to England. In this description he told how he was not permitted
to enter the cabin, but had to confine himself to the deck of the ship. A few minutes after
I had finished reading this description I was waited on by a committee of ladies and gentlemen
with the request that I deliver an address at a concert which was to begin the following evening.
And yet there are people who are bold enough to say that race feeling in America is not growing
less intense! At this concert the Hon. Benjamin B. Odell, Jr., the present governor of New
York, presided. I was never given a more cordial hearing anywhere. A large proportion of the
passengers were Southern people. After the concert some of the passengers proposed that a subscription
be raised to help the work at Tuskegee, and the money to support several scholarships was the
result.

While we were in Paris I was very pleasantly surprised to receive the following invitation
from the citizens of West Virginia and of the city near which I had spent my boyhood days:--

Charleston, W. Va., May 16, 1899.

Professor Booker T. Washington, Paris, France:

Dear Sir: Many of the best citizens of West Virginia have united in liberal expressions of
admiration and praise of your worth and work, and desire that on your return from Europe you
should favour them with your presence and with the inspiration of your words. We must sincerely
indorse this move, and on behalf of the citizens of Charleston extend to your our most cordial
invitation to have you come to us, that we may honour you who have done so much by your life
and work to honour us.

We are,

Very truly yours,

The Common Council of the City of Charleston,

By W. Herman Smith, Mayor.

Your recent visit to your old home in our midst awoke within us the keenest regret that we
were not permitted to hear you and render some substantial aid to your work, before you left
for Europe.

In view of the foregoing, we earnestly invite you to share the hospitality of our city upon
your return from Europe, and give us the opportunity to hear you and put ourselves in touch
with your work in a way that will be most gratifying to yourself, and that we may receive the
inspiration of your words and presence.

An early reply to this invitation, with an indication of the time you may reach our city, will
greatly oblige,

Yours very respectfully,

The Charleston Daily Gazette, The Daily Mail-Tribune; G.W. Atkinson, Governor; E.L. Boggs,
Secretary to Governor; Wm. M.O. Dawson, Secretary of State; L.M. La Follette, Auditor; J.R.
Trotter, Superintendent of Schools; E.W. Wilson, ex-Governor; W.A. MacCorkle, ex-Governor;
John Q. Dickinson, President Kanawha Valley Bank; L. Prichard, President Charleston National
Bank; Geo. S. Couch, President Kanawha National Bank; Ed. Reid, Cashier Kanawha National Bank;
Geo. S. Laidley, Superintended City Schools; L.E. McWhorter, President Board of Education;
Chas. K. Payne, wholesale merchant; and many others.

This invitation, coming as it did from the City Council, the state officers, and all the substantial
citizens of both races of the community where I had spent my boyhood, and from which I had
gone a few years before, unknown, in poverty and ignorance, in quest of an education, not only
surprised me, but almost unmanned me. I could not understand what I had done to deserve it all.

I accepted the invitation, and at the appointed day was met at the railway station at Charleston
by a committee headed by ex-Governor W.A. MacCorkle, and composed of men of both races. The
public reception was held in the Opera-House at Charleston. The Governor of the state, the
Hon. George W. Atkinson, presided, and an address of welcome was made by ex-Governor MacCorkle.
A prominent part in the reception was taken by the coloured citizens. The Opera-House was filled
with citizens of both races, and among the white people were many for whom I had worked when
I was a boy. The next day Governor and Mrs. Atkinson gave me a public reception at the State
House, which was attended by all classes.

Not long after this the coloured people in Atlanta, Georgia, gave me a reception at which the
Governor of the state presided, and a similar reception was given me in New Orleans, which
was presided over by the Mayor of the city. Invitations came from many other places which I
was not able to accept.

Chapter XVII. Last Words

Before going to Europe some events came into my life which were great surprises to me. In fact,
my whole life has largely been one of surprises. I believe that any man's life will be filled
with constant, unexpected encouragements of this kind if he makes up his mind to do his level
best each day of his life--that is, tries to make each day reach as nearly as possible the
high-water mark of pure, unselfish, useful living. I pity the man, black or white, who has
never experienced the joy and satisfaction that come to one by reason of an effort to assist
in making some one else more useful and more happy.

Six months before he died, and nearly a year after he had been stricken with paralysis, General
Armstrong expressed a wish to visit Tuskegee again before he passed away. Notwithstanding the
fact that he had lost the use of his limbs to such an extent that he was practically helpless,
his wish was gratified, and he was brought to Tuskegee. The owners of the Tuskegee Railroad,
white men living in the town, offered to run a special train, without cost, out of the main
station--Chehaw, five miles away--to meet him. He arrived on the school grounds about nine
o'clock in the evening. Some one had suggested that we give the General a "pine-knot torchlight
reception." This plan was carried out, and the moment that his carriage entered the school
grounds he began passing between two lines of lighted and waving "fat pine" wood knots held
by over a thousand students and teachers. The whole thing was so novel and surprising that
the General was completely overcome with happiness. He remained a guest in my home for nearly
two months, and, although almost wholly without the use of voice or limb, he spent nearly every
hour in devising ways and means to help the South. Time and time again he said to me, during
this visit, that it was not only the duty of the country to assist in elevating the Negro of
the South, but the poor white man as well. At the end of his visit I resolved anew to devote
myself more earnestly than ever to the cause which was so near his heart. I said that if a
man in his condition was willing to think, work, and act, I should not be wanting in furthering
in every possible way the wish of his heart.

The death of General Armstrong, a few weeks later, gave me the privilege of getting acquainted
with one of the finest, most unselfish, and most attractive men that I have ever come in contact
with. I refer to the Rev. Dr. Hollis B. Frissell, now the Principal of the Hampton Institute,
and General Armstrong's successor. Under the clear, strong, and almost perfect leadership of
Dr. Frissell, Hampton has had a career of prosperity and usefulness that is all that the General
could have wished for. It seems to be the constant effort of Dr. Frissell to hide his own great
personality behind that of General Armstrong--to make himself of "no reputation" for the sake
of the cause.

More than once I have been asked what was the greatest surprise that ever came to me. I have
little hesitation in answering that question. It was the following letter, which came to me
one Sunday morning when I was sitting on the veranda of my home at Tuskegee, surrounded by
my wife and three children:--

Harvard University, Cambridge, May 28, 1896.

President Booker T. Washington,

My Dear Sir: Harvard University desired to confer on you at the approaching Commencement an
honorary degree; but it is our custom to confer degrees only on gentlemen who are present.
Our Commencement occurs this year on June 24, and your presence would be desirable from about
noon till about five o'clock in the afternoon. Would it be possible for you to be in Cambridge
on that day?

Believe me, with great regard,

Very truly yours,

Charles W. Eliot.

This was a recognition that had never in the slightest manner entered into my mind, and it
was hard for me to realize that I was to be honoured by a degree from the oldest and most renowned
university in America. As I sat upon my veranda, with this letter in my hand, tears came into
my eyes. My whole former life--my life as a slave on the plantation, my work in the coal-mine,
the times when I was without food and clothing, when I made my bed under a sidewalk, my struggles
for an education, the trying days I had had at Tuskegee, days when I did not know where to
turn for a dollar to continue the work there, the ostracism and sometimes oppression of my
race,--all this passed before me and nearly overcame me.

I had never sought or cared for what the world calls fame. I have always looked upon fame as
something to be used in accomplishing good. I have often said to my friends that if I can use
whatever prominence may have come to me as an instrument with which to do good, I am content
to have it. I care for it only as a means to be used for doing good, just as wealth may be
used. The more I come into contact with wealthy people, the more I believe that they are growing
in the direction of looking upon their money simply as an instrument which God has placed in
their hand for doing good with. I never go to the office of Mr. John D. Rockefeller, who more
than once has been generous to Tuskegee, without being reminded of this. The close, careful,
and minute investigation that he always makes in order to be sure that every dollar that he
gives will do the most good--an investigation that is just as searching as if he were investing
money in a business enterprise--convinces me that the growth in this direction is most encouraging.

At nine o'clock, on the morning of June 24, I met President Eliot, the Board of Overseers of
Harvard University, and the other guests, at the designated place on the university grounds,
for the purpose of being escorted to Sanders Theatre, where the Commencement exercises were
to be held and degrees conferred. Among others invited to be present for the purpose of receiving
a degree at this time were General Nelson A. Miles, Dr. Bell, the inventor of the Bell telephone,
Bishop Vincent, and the Rev. Minot J. Savage. We were placed in line immediately behind the
President and the Board of Overseers, and directly afterward the Governor of Massachusetts,
escorted by the Lancers, arrived and took his place in the line of march by the side of President
Eliot. In the line there were also various other officers and professors, clad in cap and gown.
In this order we marched to Sanders Theatre, where, after the usual Commencement exercises,
came the conferring of the honorary degrees. This, it seems, is always considered the most
interesting feature at Harvard. It is not known, until the individuals appear, upon whom the
honorary degrees are to be conferred, and those receiving these honours are cheered by the
students and others in proportion to their popularity. During the conferring of the degrees
excitement and enthusiasm are at the highest pitch.

When my name was called, I rose, and President Eliot, in beautiful and strong English, conferred
upon me the degree of Master of Arts. After these exercises were over, those who had received
honorary degrees were invited to lunch with the President. After the lunch we were formed in
line again, and were escorted by the Marshal of the day, who that year happened to be Bishop
William Lawrence, through the grounds, where, at different points, those who had been honoured
were called by name and received the Harvard yell. This march ended at Memorial Hall, where
the alumni dinner was served. To see over a thousand strong men, representing all that is best
in State, Church, business, and education, with the glow and enthusiasm of college loyalty
and college pride,--which has, I think, a peculiar Harvard flavour,--is a sight that does not
easily fade from memory.

Among the speakers after dinner were President Eliot, Governor Roger Wolcott, General Miles,
Dr. Minot J. Savage, the Hon. Henry Cabot Lodge, and myself. When I was called upon, I said,
among other things:--

It would in some measure relieve my embarrassment if I could, even in a slight degree, feel
myself worthy of the great honour which you do me to-day. Why you have called me from the Black
Belt of the South, from among my humble people, to share in the honours of this occasion, is
not for me to explain; and yet it may not be inappropriate for me to suggest that it seems
to me that one of the most vital questions that touch our American life is how to bring the
strong, wealthy, and learned into helpful touch with the poorest, most ignorant, and humblest,
and at the same time make one appreciate the vitalizing, strengthening influence of the other.
How shall we make the mansion on yon Beacon Street feel and see the need of the spirits in
the lowliest cabin in Alabama cotton-fields or Louisiana sugar-bottoms? This problem Harvard
University is solving, not by bringing itself down, but by bringing the masses up.

              *   *   *   *   *

If my life in the past has meant anything in the lifting up of my people and the bringing about
of better relations between your race and mine, I assure you from this day it will mean doubly
more. In the economy of God there is but one standard by which an individual can succeed--there
is but one for a race. This country demands that every race shall measure itself by the American
standard. By it a race must rise or fall, succeed or fail, and in the last analysis mere sentiment
counts for little.

During the next half-century and more, my race must continue passing through the severe American
crucible. We are to be tested in our patience, our forbearance, our perseverance, our power
to endure wrong, to withstand temptations, to economize, to acquire and use skill; in our ability
to compete, to succeed in commerce, to disregard the superficial for the real, the appearance
for the substance, to be great and yet small, learned and yet simple, high and yet the servant
of all.

As this was the first time that a New England university had conferred an honorary degree upon
a Negro, it was the occasion of much newspaper comment throughout the country. A correspondent
of a New York Paper said:--

When the name of Booker T. Washington was called, and he arose to acknowledge and accept, there
was such an outburst of applause as greeted no other name except that of the popular soldier
patriot, General Miles. The applause was not studied and stiff, sympathetic and condoling;
it was enthusiasm and admiration. Every part of the audience from pit to gallery joined in,
and a glow covered the cheeks of those around me, proving sincere appreciation of the rising
struggle of an ex-slave and the work he has accomplished for his race.

A Boston paper said, editorially:--

In conferring the honorary degree of Master of Arts upon the Principal of Tuskegee Institute,
Harvard University has honoured itself as well as the object of this distinction. The work
which Professor Booker T. Washington has accomplished for the education, good citizenship,
and popular enlightenment in his chosen field of labour in the South entitles him to rank with
our national benefactors. The university which can claim him on its list of sons, whether in
regular course or honoris causa, may be proud.

It has been mentioned that Mr. Washington is the first of his race to receive an honorary degree
from a New England university. This, in itself, is a distinction. But the degree was not conferred
because Mr. Washington is a coloured man, or because he was born in slavery, but because he
has shown, by his work for the elevation of the people of the Black Belt of the South, a genius
and a broad humanity which count for greatness in any man, whether his skin be white or black.

Another Boston paper said:--

It is Harvard which, first among New England colleges, confers an honorary degree upon a black
man. No one who has followed the history of Tuskegee and its work can fail to admire the courage,
persistence, and splendid common sense of Booker T. Washington.

Well may Harvard honour the ex-slave, the value of whose services, alike to his race and country,
only the future can estimate.

The correspondent of the New York Times wrote:--

All the speeches were enthusiastically received, but the coloured man carried off the oratorical
honours, and the applause which broke out when he had finished was vociferous and long-continued.

Soon after I began work at Tuskegee I formed a resolution, in the secret of my heart, that
I would try to build up a school that would be of so much service to the country that the President
of the United States would one day come to see it. This was, I confess, rather a bold resolution,
and for a number of years I kept it hidden in my own thoughts, not daring to share it with any one.

In November, 1897, I made the first move in this direction, and that was in securing a visit
from a member of President McKinley's Cabinet, the Hon. James Wilson, Secretary of Agriculture.
He came to deliver an address at the formal opening of the Slater-Armstrong Agricultural Building,
our first large building to be used for the purpose of giving training to our students in agriculture
and kindred branches.

In the fall of 1898 I heard that President McKinley was likely to visit Atlanta, Georgia, for
the purpose of taking part in the Peace Jubilee exercises to be held there to commemorate the
successful close of the Spanish-American war. At this time I had been hard at work, together
with our teachers, for eighteen years, trying to build up a school that we thought would be
of service to the Nation, and I determined to make a direct effort to secure a visit from the
President and his Cabinet. I went to Washington, and I was not long in the city before I found
my way to the White House. When I got there I found the waiting rooms full of people, and my
heart began to sink, for I feared there would not be much chance of my seeing the President
that day, if at all. But, at any rate, I got an opportunity to see Mr. J. Addison Porter, the
secretary to the President, and explained to him my mission. Mr. Porter kindly sent my card
directly to the President, and in a few minutes word came from Mr. McKinley that he would see me.

How any man can see so many people of all kinds, with all kinds of errands, and do so much
hard work, and still keep himself calm, patient, and fresh for each visitor in the way that
President McKinley does, I cannot understand. When I saw the President he kindly thanked me
for the work which we were doing at Tuskegee for the interests of the country. I then told
him, briefly, the object of my visit. I impressed upon him the fact that a visit from the Chief
Executive of the Nation would not only encourage our students and teachers, but would help
the entire race. He seemed interested, but did not make a promise to go to Tuskegee, for the
reason that his plans about going to Atlanta were not then fully made; but he asked me to call
the matter to his attention a few weeks later.

By the middle of the following month the President had definitely decided to attend the Peace
Jubilee at Atlanta. I went to Washington again and saw him, with a view of getting him to extend
his trip to Tuskegee. On this second visit Mr. Charles W. Hare, a prominent white citizen of
Tuskegee, kindly volunteered to accompany me, to reenforce my invitation with one from the
white people of Tuskegee and the vicinity.

Just previous to my going to Washington the second time, the country had been excited, and
the coloured people greatly depressed, because of several severe race riots which had occurred
at different points in the South. As soon as I saw the President, I perceived that his heart
was greatly burdened by reason of these race disturbances. Although there were many people
waiting to see him, he detained me for some time, discussing the condition and prospects of
the race. He remarked several times that he was determined to show his interest and faith in
the race, not merely in words, but by acts. When I told him that I thought that at that time
scarcely anything would go father in giving hope and encouragement to the race than the fact
that the President of the Nation would be willing to travel one hundred and forty miles out
of his way to spend a day at a Negro institution, he seemed deeply impressed.

While I was with the President, a white citizen of Atlanta, a Democrat and an ex-slaveholder,
came into the room, and the President asked his opinion as to the wisdom of his going to Tuskegee.
Without hesitation the Atlanta man replied that it was the proper thing for him to do. This
opinion was reenforced by that friend of the race, Dr. J.L.M. Curry. The President promised
that he would visit our school on the 16th of December.

When it became known that the President was going to visit our school, the white citizens of
the town of Tuskegee--a mile distant from the school--were as much pleased as were our students
and teachers. The white people of this town, including both men and women, began arranging
to decorate the town, and to form themselves into committees for the purpose of cooperating
with the officers of our school in order that the distinguished visitor might have a fitting
reception. I think I never realized before this how much the white people of Tuskegee and vicinity
thought of our institution. During the days when we were preparing for the President's reception,
dozens of these people came to me and said that, while they did not want to push themselves
into prominence, if there was anything they could do to help, or to relieve me personally,
I had but to intimate it and they would be only too glad to assist. In fact, the thing that
touched me almost as deeply as the visit of the President itself was the deep pride which all
classes of citizens in Alabama seemed to take in our work.

The morning of December 16th brought to the little city of Tuskegee such a crowd as it had
never seen before. With the President came Mrs. McKinley and all of the Cabinet officers but
one; and most of them brought their wives or some members of their families. Several prominent
generals came, including General Shafter and General Joseph Wheeler, who were recently returned
from the Spanish-American war. There was also a host of newspaper correspondents. The Alabama
Legislature was in session in Montgomery at this time. This body passed a resolution to adjourn
for the purpose of visiting Tuskegee. Just before the arrival of the President's party the
Legislature arrived, headed by the governor and other state officials.

The citizens of Tuskegee had decorated the town from the station to the school in a generous
manner. In order to economize in the matter of time, we arranged to have the whole school pass
in review before the President. Each student carried a stalk of sugar-cane with some open bolls
of cotton fastened to the end of it. Following the students the work of all departments of
the school passed in review, displayed on "floats" drawn by horses, mules, and oxen. On these
floats we tried to exhibit not only the present work of the school, but to show the contrasts
between the old methods of doing things and the new. As an example, we showed the old method
of dairying in contrast with the improved methods, the old methods of tilling the soil in contrast
with the new, the old methods of cooking and housekeeping in contrast with the new. These floats
consumed an hour and a half of time in passing.

In his address in our large, new chapel, which the students had recently completed, the President
said, among other things:--

To meet you under such pleasant auspices and to have the opportunity of a personal observation
of your work is indeed most gratifying. The Tuskegee Normal and Industrial Institute is ideal
in its conception, and has already a large and growing reputation in the country, and is not
unknown abroad. I congratulate all who are associated in this undertaking for the good work
which it is doing in the education of its students to lead lives of honour and usefulness,
thus exalting the race for which it was established.

Nowhere, I think, could a more delightful location have been chosen for this unique educational
experiment, which has attracted the attention and won the support even of conservative philanthropists
in all sections of the country.

To speak of Tuskegee without paying special tribute to Booker T. Washington's genius and perseverance
would be impossible. The inception of this noble enterprise was his, and he deserves high credit
for it. His was the enthusiasm and enterprise which made its steady progress possible and established
in the institution its present high standard of accomplishment. He has won a worthy reputation
as one of the great leaders of his race, widely known and much respected at home and abroad
as an accomplished educator, a great orator, and a true philanthropist.

The Hon. John D. Long, the Secretary of the Navy, said in part:--

I cannot make a speech to-day. My heart is too full--full of hope, admiration, and pride for
my countrymen of both sections and both colours. I am filled with gratitude and admiration
for your work, and from this time forward I shall have absolute confidence in your progress
and in the solution of the problem in which you are engaged.

The problem, I say, has been solved. A picture has been presented to-day which should be put
upon canvas with the pictures of Washington and Lincoln, and transmitted to future time and
generations--a picture which the press of the country should spread broadcast over the land,
a most dramatic picture, and that picture is this: The President of the United States standing
on this platform; on one side the Governor of Alabama, on the other, completing the trinity,
a representative of a race only a few years ago in bondage, the coloured President of the Tuskegee
Normal and Industrial Institute.

God bless the President under whose majesty such a scene as that is presented to the American
people. God bless the state of Alabama, which is showing that it can deal with this problem
for itself. God bless the orator, philanthropist, and disciple of the Great Master--who, if
he were on earth, would be doing the same work--Booker T. Washington.

Postmaster General Smith closed the address which he made with these words:--

We have witnessed many spectacles within the last few days. We have seen the magnificent grandeur
and the magnificent achievements of one of the great metropolitan cities of the South. We have
seen heroes of the war pass by in procession. We have seen floral parades. But I am sure my
colleagues will agree with me in saying that we have witnessed no spectacle more impressive
and more encouraging, more inspiring for our future, than that which we have witnessed here
this morning.

Some days after the President returned to Washington I received the letter which follows:--

Executive Mansion, Washington, Dec. 23, 1899.

Dear Sir: By this mail I take pleasure in sending you engrossed copies of the souvenir of the
visit of the President to your institution. These sheets bear the autographs of the President
and the members of the Cabinet who accompanied him on the trip. Let me take this opportunity
of congratulating you most heartily and sincerely upon the great success of the exercises provided
for and entertainment furnished us under your auspices during our visit to Tuskegee. Every
feature of the programme was perfectly executed and was viewed or participated in with the
heartiest satisfaction by every visitor present. The unique exhibition which you gave of your
pupils engaged in their industrial vocations was not only artistic but thoroughly impressive.
The tribute paid by the President and his Cabinet to your work was none too high, and forms
a most encouraging augury, I think, for the future prosperity of your institution. I cannot
close without assuring you that the modesty shown by yourself in the exercises was most favourably
commented upon by all the members of our party.

With best wishes for the continued advance of your most useful and patriotic undertaking, kind
personal regards, and the compliments of the season, believe me, always,

Very sincerely yours,

John Addison Porter,

Secretary to the President.

To President Booker T. Washington, Tuskegee Normal and Industrial Institute, Tuskegee, Ala.

Twenty years have now passed since I made the first humble effort at Tuskegee, in a broken-down
shanty and an old hen-house, without owning a dollar's worth of property, and with but one
teacher and thirty students. At the present time the institution owns twenty-three hundred
acres of land, one thousand of which are under cultivation each year, entirely by student labour.
There are now upon the grounds, counting large and small, sixty-six buildings; and all except
four of these have been almost wholly erected by the labour of our students. While the students
are at work upon the land and in erecting buildings, they are taught, by competent instructors,
the latest methods of agriculture and the trades connected with building.

There are in constant operation at the school, in connection with thorough academic and religious
training, thirty industrial departments. All of these teach industries at which our men and
women can find immediate employment as soon as they leave the institution. The only difficulty
now is that the demand for our graduates from both white and black people in the South is so
great that we cannot supply more than one-half the persons for whom applications come to us.
Neither have we the buildings nor the money for current expenses to enable us to admit to the
school more than one-half the young men and women who apply to us for admission.

In our industrial teaching we keep three things in mind: first, that the student shall be so
educated that he shall be enabled to meet conditions as they exist now, in the part of the
South where he lives--in a word, to be able to do the thing which the world wants done; second,
that every student who graduates from the school shall have enough skill, coupled with intelligence
and moral character, to enable him to make a living for himself and others; third, to send
every graduate out feeling and knowing that labour is dignified and beautiful--to make each
one love labour instead of trying to escape it. In addition to the agricultural training which
we give to young men, and the training given to our girls in all the usual domestic employments,
we now train a number of girls in agriculture each year. These girls are taught gardening,
fruit-growing, dairying, bee-culture, and poultry-raising.

While the institution is in no sense denominational, we have a department known as the Phelps
Hall Bible Training School, in which a number of students are prepared for the ministry and
other forms of Christian work, especially work in the country districts. What is equally important,
each one of the students works half of each day at some industry, in order to get skill and
the love of work, so that when he goes out from the institution he is prepared to set the people
with whom he goes to labour a proper example in the matter of industry.

The value of our property is now over $700,000. If we add to this our endowment fund, which
at present is $1,000,000, the value of the total property is now $1,700,000. Aside from the
need for more buildings and for money for current expenses, the endowment fund should be increased
to at least $3,000,000. The annual current expenses are now about $150,000. The greater part
of this I collect each year by going from door to door and from house to house. All of our
property is free from mortgage, and is deeded to an undenominational board of trustees who
have the control of the institution.

From thirty students the number has grown to fourteen hundred, coming from twenty-seven states
and territories, from Africa, Cuba, Porto Rico, Jamaica, and other foreign countries. In our
departments there are one hundred and ten officers and instructors; and if we add the families
of our instructors, we have a constant population upon our grounds of not far from seventeen
hundred people.

I have often been asked how we keep so large a body of people together, and at the same time
keep them out of mischief. There are two answers: that the men and women who come to us for
an education are in earnest; and that everybody is kept busy. The following outline of our
daily work will testify to this:--

5 a.m., rising bell; 5.50 a.m., warning breakfast bell; 6 a.m., breakfast bell; 6.20 a.m.,
breakfast over; 6.20 to 6.50 a.m., rooms are cleaned; 6.50, work bell; 7.30, morning study
hours; 8.20, morning school bell; 8.25, inspection of young men's toilet in ranks; 8.40, devotional
exercises in chapel; 8.55, "five minutes with the daily news;" 9 a.m., class work begins; 12,
class work closes; 12.15 p.m., dinner; 1 p.m., work bell; 1.30 p.m., class work begins; 3.30
p.m., class work ends; 5.30 p.m., bell to "knock off" work; 6 p.m., supper; 7.10 p.m., evening
prayers; 7.30 p.m., evening study hours; 8.45 p.m., evening study hour closes; 9.20 p.m., warning
retiring bell; 9.30 p.m., retiring bell.

We try to keep constantly in mind the fact that the worth of the school is to be judged by
its graduates. Counting those who have finished the full course, together with those who have
taken enough training to enable them to do reasonably good work, we can safely say that at
least six thousand men and women from Tuskegee are now at work in different parts of the South;
men and women who, by their own example or by direct efforts, are showing the masses of our
race now to improve their material, educational, and moral and religious life. What is equally
important, they are exhibiting a degree of common sense and self-control which is causing better
relations to exist between the races, and is causing the Southern white man to learn to believe
in the value of educating the men and women of my race. Aside from this, there is the influence
that is constantly being exerted through the mothers' meeting and the plantation work conducted
by Mrs. Washington.

Wherever our graduates go, the changes which soon begin to appear in the buying of land, improving
homes, saving money, in education, and in high moral characters are remarkable. Whole communities
are fast being revolutionized through the instrumentality of these men and women.

Ten years ago I organized at Tuskegee the first Negro Conference. This is an annual gathering
which now brings to the school eight or nine hundred representative men and women of the race,
who come to spend a day in finding out what the actual industrial, mental, and moral conditions
of the people are, and in forming plans for improvement. Out from this central Negro Conference
at Tuskegee have grown numerous state and local conferences which are doing the same kind of
work. As a result of the influence of these gatherings, one delegate reported at the last annual
meeting that ten families in his community had bought and paid for homes. On the day following
the annual Negro Conference, there is the "Workers' Conference." This is composed of officers
and teachers who are engaged in educational work in the larger institutions in the South. The
Negro Conference furnishes a rare opportunity for these workers to study the real condition
of the rank and file of the people.

In the summer of 1900, with the assistance of such prominent coloured men as Mr. T. Thomas
Fortune, who has always upheld my hands in every effort, I organized the National Negro Business
League, which held its first meeting in Boston, and brought together for the first time a large
number of the coloured men who are engaged in various lines of trade or business in different
parts of the United States. Thirty states were represented at our first meeting. Out of this
national meeting grew state and local business leagues.

In addition to looking after the executive side of the work at Tuskegee, and raising the greater
part of the money for the support of the school, I cannot seem to escape the duty of answering
at least a part of the calls which come to me unsought to address Southern white audiences
and audiences of my own race, as well as frequent gatherings in the North. As to how much of
my time is spent in this way, the following clipping from a Buffalo (N.Y.) paper will tell.
This has reference to an occasion when I spoke before the National Educational Association
in that city.

Booker T. Washington, the foremost educator among the coloured people of the world, was a very
busy man from the time he arrived in the city the other night from the West and registered
at the Iroquois. He had hardly removed the stains of travel when it was time to partake of
supper. Then he held a public levee in the parlours of the Iroquois until eight o'clock. During
that time he was greeted by over two hundred eminent teachers and educators from all parts
of the United States. Shortly after eight o'clock he was driven in a carriage to Music Hall,
and in one hour and a half he made two ringing addresses, to as many as five thousand people,
on Negro education. Then Mr. Washington was taken in charge by a delegation of coloured citizens,
headed by the Rev. Mr. Watkins, and hustled off to a small informal reception, arranged in
honour of the visitor by the people of his race.

Nor can I, in addition to making these addresses, escape the duty of calling the attention
of the South and of the country in general, through the medium of the press, to matters that
pertain to the interests of both races. This, for example, I have done in regard to the evil
habit of lynching. When the Louisiana State Constitutional Convention was in session, I wrote
an open letter to that body pleading for justice for the race. In all such efforts I have received
warm and hearty support from the Southern newspapers, as well as from those in all other parts
of the country.

Despite superficial and temporary signs which might lead one to entertain a contrary opinion,
there was never a time when I felt more hopeful for the race than I do at the present. The
great human law that in the end recognizes and rewards merit is everlasting and universal.
The outside world does not know, neither can it appreciate, the struggle that is constantly
going on in the hearts of both the Southern white people and their former slaves to free themselves
from racial prejudice; and while both races are thus struggling they should have the sympathy,
the support, and the forbearance of the rest of the world.

As I write the closing words of this autobiography I find myself--not by design--in the city
of Richmond, Virginia: the city which only a few decades ago was the capital of the Southern
Confederacy, and where, about twenty-five years ago, because of my poverty I slept night after
night under a sidewalk.

This time I am in Richmond as the guest of the coloured people of the city; and came at their
request to deliver an address last night to both races in the Academy of Music, the largest
and finest audience room in the city. This was the first time that the coloured people had
ever been permitted to use this hall. The day before I came, the City Council passed a vote
to attend the meeting in a body to hear me speak. The state Legislature, including the House
of Delegates and the Senate, also passed a unanimous vote to attend in a body. In the presence
of hundreds of coloured people, many distinguished white citizens, the City Council, the state
Legislature, and state officials, I delivered my message, which was one of hope and cheer;
and from the bottom of my heart I thanked both races for this welcome back to the state that
gave me birth.