Jurgis had looked into the deepest reaches of the social pit, and grown used to the sights
in them. Yet when he had thought of all humanity as vile and hideous, he had somehow always
excepted his own family that he had loved; and now this sudden horrible discovery--Marija a
whore, and Elzbieta and the children living off her shame! Jurgis might argue with himself
all he chose, that he had done worse, and was a fool for caring--but still he could not get
over the shock of that sudden unveiling, he could not help being sunk in grief because of it.
The depths of him were troubled and shaken, memories were stirred in him that had been sleeping
so long he had counted them dead. Memories of the old life--his old hopes and his old yearnings,
his old dreams of decency and independence! He saw Ona again, he heard her gentle voice pleading
with him. He saw little Antanas, whom he had meant to make a man. He saw his trembling old
father, who had blessed them all with his wonderful love. He lived again through that day of
horror when he had discovered Ona's shame--God, how he had suffered, what a madman he had been!
How dreadful it had all seemed to him; and now, today, he had sat and listened, and half agreed
when Marija told him he had been a fool! Yes--told him that he ought to have sold his wife's
honor and lived by it!--And then there was Stanislovas and his awful fate--that brief story
which Marija had narrated so calmly, with such dull indifference! The poor little fellow, with
his frostbitten fingers and his terror of the snow--his wailing voice rang in Jurgis's ears,
as he lay there in the darkness, until the sweat started on his forehead. Now and then he would
quiver with a sudden spasm of horror, at the picture of little Stanislovas shut up in the deserted
building and fighting for his life with the rats!

All these emotions had become strangers to the soul of Jurgis; it was so long since they had
troubled him that he had ceased to think they might ever trouble him again. Helpless, trapped,
as he was, what good did they do him--why should he ever have allowed them to torment him?
It had been the task of his recent life to fight them down, to crush them out of him, never
in his life would he have suffered from them again, save that they had caught him unawares,
and overwhelmed him before he could protect himself. He heard the old voices of his soul, he
saw its old ghosts beckoning to him, stretching out their arms to him! But they were far-off
and shadowy, and the gulf between them was black and bottomless; they would fade away into
the mists of the past once more. Their voices would die, and never again would he hear them--and
so the last faint spark of manhood in his soul would flicker out.

Chapter 28

After breakfast Jurgis was driven to the court, which was crowded with the prisoners and those
who had come out of curiosity or in the hope of recognizing one of the men and getting a case
for blackmail. The men were called up first, and reprimanded in a bunch, and then dismissed;
but, Jurgis to his terror, was called separately, as being a suspicious-looking case. It was
in this very same court that he had been tried, that time when his sentence had been "suspended";
it was the same judge, and the same clerk. The latter now stared at Jurgis, as if he half thought
that he knew him; but the judge had no suspicions--just then his thoughts were upon a telephone
message he was expecting from a friend of the police captain of the district, telling what
disposition he should make of the case of "Polly" Simpson, as the "madame" of the house was
known. Meantime, he listened to the story of how Jurgis had been looking for his sister, and
advised him dryly to keep his sister in a better place; then he let him go, and proceeded to
fine each of the girls five dollars, which fines were paid in a bunch from a wad of bills which
Madame Polly extracted from her stocking.

Jurgis waited outside and walked home with Marija. The police had left the house, and already
there were a few visitors; by evening the place would be running again, exactly as if nothing
had happened. Meantime, Marija took Jurgis upstairs to her room, and they sat and talked. By
daylight, Jurgis was able to observe that the color on her cheeks was not the old natural one
of abounding health; her complexion was in reality a parchment yellow, and there were black
rings under her eyes.

"Have you been sick?" he asked.

"Sick?" she said. "Hell!" (Marija had learned to scatter her conversation with as many oaths
as a longshoreman or a mule driver.) "How can I ever be anything but sick, at this life?"

She fell silent for a moment, staring ahead of her gloomily. "It's morphine," she said, at
last. "I seem to take more of it every day."

"What's that for?" he asked.

"It's the way of it; I don't know why. If it isn't that, it's drink. If the girls didn't booze
they couldn't stand it any time at all. And the madame always gives them dope when they first
come, and they learn to like it; or else they take it for headaches and such things, and get
the habit that way. I've got it, I know; I've tried to quit, but I never will while I'm here."

"How long are you going to stay?" he asked.

"I don't know," she said. "Always, I guess. What else could I do?"

"Don't you save any money?"

"Save!" said Marija. "Good Lord, no! I get enough, I suppose, but it all goes. I get a half
share, two dollars and a half for each customer, and sometimes I make twenty-five or thirty
dollars a night, and you'd think I ought to save something out of that! But then I am charged
for my room and my meals--and such prices as you never heard of; and then for extras, and drinks--for
everything I get, and some I don't. My laundry bill is nearly twenty dollars each week alone--think
of that! Yet what can I do? I either have to stand it or quit, and it would be the same anywhere
else. It's all I can do to save the fifteen dollars I give Elzbieta each week, so the children
can go to school."

Marija sat brooding in silence for a while; then, seeing that Jurgis was interested, she went
on: "That's the way they keep the girls--they let them run up debts, so they can't get away.
A young girl comes from abroad, and she doesn't know a word of English, and she gets into a
place like this, and when she wants to go the madame shows her that she is a couple of hundred
dollars in debt, and takes all her clothes away, and threatens to have her arrested if she
doesn't stay and do as she's told. So she stays, and the longer she stays, the more in debt
she gets. Often, too, they are girls that didn't know what they were coming to, that had hired
out for housework. Did you notice that little French girl with the yellow hair, that stood
next to me in the court?"

Jurgis answered in the affirmative.

