Punch was born, so to speak, upon the stage, between the four canvas walls of his own and Judy's
show. His heart and soul were with and of the drama, and plays have rained from the prolific
pens of his literary Staff. Many of his contributors acted in public--a few professionally,
most of them as amateurs--and more than one has linked his life with a lady who had trodden
the stage or concert platform. From the first he proclaimed that Music and the Drama were to
be amongst the most prominent features of the work; and to that declaration he has ever since
faithfully adhered. As a record of the London stage, the pages of Punch are fairly complete;
as a dramatist he has, through the members of his Staff, been prolific, and on the whole highly
successful; as an actor he has at least enjoyed himself; and just as Falstaff was the cause
of wit in others, he has unwittingly served the pirates of the stage, and to better purpose,
too, than they deserved.

With "readings," lectures, and "entertainments," the members of Punch's Staff have often come
strikingly before the public; so much so, indeed, that they have stepped from their studies
and studios on to the platform as by a natural transition. Albert Smith's "Overland Mail" and
"The Ascent of Mont Blanc," with the extraordinary success that attended them, doubtless set
the fashion to the band of men who were always, in one sense at least, before the public. Thackeray's
"Four Georges" and the "English Humorists" raised the standard of quality at once; and to that
standard more than one of his contemporaries and successors has aimed at attaining, even though
they never hoped to succeed. Every Editor of Punch--except perhaps Stirling Coyne--delivered
such lectures in his day. Henry Mayhew took for his subject that of which he had a complete
mastery, "London Labour and London Poor." Mark Lemon, whose knowledge of the metropolis was
probably even more extensive and peculiar than Sam Weller's own, lectured on it in "About London,"
and gave recitals of "Falstaff" with a certain measure of success. Shirley Brooks spoke, as
he was so well qualified to do, on "The Houses of Parliament;" and discourses were similarly
delivered by Tom Taylor. Mr. Burnand's bright "Happy Thoughts" readings could be forgotten
by none that heard them. James Hannay, laying humour aside, lectured on the more serious aspects
of literature; and Cuthbert Bede talked of the literary and artistic friends of his Verdant
Green career. Mr. Harry Furniss, with his delightful entertainments on "Portraiture" and "The
Humours of Parliament," achieved a success undreamed of by the earlier Punch reciters; and
Mr. du Maurier in his "Social Pictorial Satire" touched a literary and critical height that
charmed every audience by its humour, its delicacy, and its admirable taste.

The theatrical stars of half a century march through Punch's pages in long procession, and
matters of high theatrical politics engage the attention from year to year. Punch's interest
in theatricals is hardly surprising when it is remembered how closely identified with the drama
have been many members of the Staff. Douglas Jerrold was a successful playwright before ever
Punch was heard of, and as the author of "Black-Eyed Susan" and "Time Works Wonders" he made
his name popular with many who had hardly heard of his connection with "the great comic." It
has been computed that the Punch writers, from first to last, have contributed no fewer than
five hundred plays to the stage; and it may be mentioned as a curious fact that to "German
Reed's" each successive Editor of Punch has contributed an "Entertainment." The Staff has on
several occasions been seen upon the boards; and on countless occasions Punch has figured there,
usually against his will. It but sufficed for Punch to make a hit for hungry provincial actors,
either of stock companies or on tour, to pounce upon it and work it up into a play or an entertainment.
Jerrold's brother-in-law, W. J. Hammond, who was at one time manager of the Strand Theatre,
travelled with what must be considered the authorised show, thus described:

       *       *       *       *       *

  "A new Entertainment, called a

  NIGHT

  with

  PUNCH!

Founded on the Series of Celebrated Papers of that highly humorous Periodical, from the pens
of the acknowledged best Comic Writers of the day. Adapted and Arranged by R. B. Peake, Esq.
As performed by Mr. W. J. Hammond Forty-two successive nights at the New Strand Theatre....
After which, a Monopolylogue entitled the

  LAST MAN;

  or,

  PUNCH OUT OF TOWN"

--with five characters, all performed by Hammond, the whole reaching its climax when Punch,
in propria persona, appeared and sang an "Epilogue Song."

But it was Mrs. Caudle, of course, that offered a bait too tempting to be resisted. There was
Mrs. Keeley's authorised "Mrs. Caudle" in town; but simultaneously Mrs. Caudles cropped up
in every town in the country. One of these was enacted by Mr. Warren, and his playbill of the
Theatre Royal, Gravesend, dated August 7th, 1845, is before me as I write. "The REAL MRS. CAUDLE,"
he asserts, "having received an enthusiastic welcome from a Gravesend audience, and being pronounced
far superior to any of the counterfeit Representatives, will have the honour of repeating her
Curtain Lecture this and to-morrow evenings." "Mrs. Caudle at Gravesend" was, in fact, a "Comic
Sketch" by C. Z. Barnett; and the programme decorated with a common engraving in impudent imitation
of Leech's immortal cut, contained all the dramatis personæ of Jerrold's little domestic drama,
including "Mrs. Caudle (the Original from Punch's Papers), Mr. WARREN."

Six years later Mr. Briggs himself was lifted from Punch on to the stage (amongst others) of
the Royal Marylebone Theatre, which then assiduously cultivated the equestrian drama. On November
14th, 1851, for the benefit of a lady called MRS. MORETON BROOKES, there was played a "new
grand dramatic equestrian spectacle, entitled the MAID OF SARAGOSSA; OR, THE DUMB SPY AND STEED
OF ARRAGON--realising Sir David Wilkie's Celebrated Picture." As the Arragon Steed remained
on the premises when the curtain fell on the first piece, it was obviously a pity to waste
him; so, after he had finished realising Wilkie's picture, and had rested awhile, he stepped
out of romance into high comedy, or, as the playbill simply put it--"After which will be presented
from Sketches furnished from PUNCH'S Domicile, Fleet Street, a New, Grand, Locomotive, Pedestrian,
Equestrian, Go-ahead Extravaganza, entitled

  =MR. BRIGGS=!

  Or, HOUSE KEEPING versus HORSE KEEPING"--

in which Mr. Briggs was played by Mr. Crowther, and Mrs. Briggs by the fair beneficiaire.

