The WEALTH OF ECHINDUL

                            By NOEL LOOMIS

     Though he carried with him the loot of the ages, who in The
      Pass--that legalized city of vice and corruption--would dare
      risk his neck to help Russell, the Hard Luck Man of the
      Swamps?

       *       *       *       *       *

He came up out of the Great Sea-Swamp of Venus like old Father Neptune. He was covered with
mud and slime. Seaweed hung from his cheap diving-suit. Brine dripped from his arms that hung
limp and weary; it ran from his torso and made a dark trail in the sand.

Without even looking back, he stood for a moment as if fighting to keep on his feet, while
the brine made a small puddle in the green sand. 

In order to save her but not, when only poultry is prepared, and the bee larvae cocoon, the disease
breaks out again.

From my Characteristics of epidemic foulbrood shows that there are two forms of this Disease was
distinguished, one which with a frantic speed of the sinking of a Hive produces and one that
brings the floor to die slowly and in some Cases the hive only harm, but not destroyed him.
The first form would be, as she calls Dzierzon [42], the malignant contagious, the second is the benign
infectious foulbrood. The contagious malignant foulbrood, as cited above Dzierzon describes agrees with
my observation and Characteristics of the above agreement, only mentioned Dzierzon cited above,
as well Scholtissen [43] Nothing about whether the capped dead bee larvae in the wrong Position
in the cells were not. Small and von Berlepsch [44] however, lead explicitly that all bee larvae,
which were faulbrütig with the head end to the Bottom of the cell were addressed, so just
as I just described and previously was observed and in the Journal of Horticulture, born in
1860 no. One described. Dzierzon's benign infectious foulbrood deviates from my in from where,
as Dzierzon usually open in the same open deck sparkled bee larvae observed, which tended to
die and putrefaction were transferred, while the lidded bee larvae remained healthy and developed
into perfect insects. Also dried in the previous decomposition of larvae to a crust on the
floor together, which the bees could easily be removed from the cells. My benign infectious foulbrood
contrast differs from the vicious into nothing more than to the floor, only gradually the destruction
brought closer and in some cases disappeared by itself without the stick extinct. It went on
just the most part capped bee larvae in decomposition and shrinking not to be removed from the
bees easily dry mass together, but the dried Mass adhered so strongly to the cell floor and the walls
of the cell so that the bees when they wanted to remove the mass, were compelled, auszubeissen the whole
cell. It would be So therefore, to distinguish three types of foulbrood (not contagious I leave
all away because, as I have shown no disease) is a malignant contagious - to me the expression
to use Dzierzon's - and two benign species of infectious foulbrood.

The observed benign from me foulbrood is contagious but only as a
milder form or Modification to consider the malignant foulbrood contagious
because it down to the lower Contagiösität, from American foulbrood
is no different and probably only by the lack of a larger disposition
of the bee larvae to receive the contagion does not degenerate into
the American foulbrood.

So I do not consider it appropriate to foulbrood to the degree of extensiveness, but after the
age of the bee larvae, which infected by it be, and einzutheilen for the symptoms in the course
of the disease. Then would So you have foulbrood 1) which usually only the capped to the transformation
of nymphs nearby, afflicting bee larvae and spread rapidly all over the floor and it completely
intended as a basis. And 2) a foul brood, which usually affects only the non-deck sparkled bee
larvae, only slowly spread in the hive, and sometimes disappear by themselves without the stick
destroyed. Furthermore, a) a modification of the former foulbrood, which, like this usually
only the capped the transformation of nymphs near hatching destroyed, but only slowly in the
hive common and sometimes even disappear, without a stick to put the fall.

All kinds of foul brood, they may viciously contagious, infectious or benign be put, the large
losses at beekeepers, not merely by the fact that this disease represents a major Part of the
brood and thereby also destroy the bee hive in the most common cases Doom prepare, but also
because the beekeepers to him so valuable wax combs after the extinction
of a faulbrütigen stick for other sticks can not use, partly because
they contain the poison, but partly also that you go through even
the contagion disinfecting could remove funds, [45] in that the cells
remaining in the dried mass hatching and by the bees with the exception
of the second mentioned foulbrood not removed from the cells can be,
hence, for the honeycomb of the bee is useless, and compelled the
honeycomb, at least those in which breeding was in, but by far the
largest Constitute part to melt to wax.

Any rational beekeepers know but what have high value of the empty wax comb for him. However,
the hives, in which faulbrütige peoples had its seat, after Dzierzon and several other beekeepers
experientially two to three years to use for other schools not because otherwise, they produce
the foul brood. Likewise, it holds up with the honey faulbrütiger sticks. The honey bees such should
not be used for feeding healthy bees, when he also the perfect insect does no harm, yet it is
evident proof that the breeding always after enjoying such a honey suffering from the foul brood. Even
the place to which were previously faulbrütige sticks, can not couple to a few years back von Berlepsch
be used because the place more than a year has the ability to infect healthy hives. [46] Similarly,
one can also bee hive faulbrütigen to reinforce other healthy Sticks are not used because they
lead the contagion with them.

After Dierzon, v. Berlepsch, Small and many other beekeepers is actually a faulbrütigen floor
for other healthy canes to use nothing but the Queen, which the Contagion is not spreading
further. In my observation, though only after two made Try infected, the Queen's healthy canes.
From the earlier and just said clear how corrupt the foul brood of bees is expressed and how
detrimental it to the beekeepers and is in national-öconomischer respect. The mode of origin
and the cure of this Disease has therefore always been the beekeepers of all peoples who cultivated
the bees lively busy. That we are therefore very rich in the most varied views on the mode
of origin this disease, although their treatment may not surprise us. Already Junius Moderatus
Columella [47] mentions this brood disease, which he and the Greek word [Greek: phagedaina] means and also
gives the means to treat you a faulbrütigen Stock added. In his view, these diseases are caused
by people loss, which occurs when the bees on the dress suddenly
surprised by the rain or hurricane will perish and.

The guard house is bare and partly in consequence of bee antennae and begins to rot at. Similarly,
even destroy the honey.

Such a stick, he proposes to merge with another, so that the amount of lost bees would be replaced.
Pliny [48] assumed that in the tables a greenhouse (clavus) arises, which was a miscarriage
of bees. The most common view on the mode of origin the foul brood was and is even now among the
most beekeepers that which we mentioned by Columella find. Namely, by sudden large loss of people
is a part the breeding of the bees unverpflegt and unheated, dies and is finally in putrefaction about.
Or even when people did not loss, but have occurred in cold weather which compels the bees to
retreat into the center of the stick, the external cold Hatching and is also modified into
putrefaction. The second common view on the Cause of the foul brood is feeding the bees with American
or Polish, or in fermentation subrogated German honey.

Dzierzon also believes that American honey producers American foul brood. Himself will have
lost by feeding with this honey a few hundred of his sticks.

[49] After less popular views, the development of this disease from toxic honey (Blüthensaft), which
should bring the bees from the costume derived. Furthermore, the AFB be produced by the bee
keeper himself when he about to corrupt juices, such Example on the scrofula and diseases suffered
even worse. Also suspected is that a filamentous fungus Mucor mellitophorus, which occurs in
Chylusmagen of bees, the jelly preparation of the Bees an injurious influence practice, which
breeding therefore not sufficiently digested food and get this fungus would be the indirect result
of the foul brood also. At last, in the latest Time even road dust, which penetrates into the
brood cells as a cause of death and nagträglichen Decay of the bee larvae considered.

The view that American foul brood by a sudden loss of people and from resultant chill and is
finally charged freezing or starvation of the brood and the like
mentioned causes, can be related only to the so-called non-contagious
foulbrood.

Feeding the Bees with American or Polish honey can produce only in the case of foul brood,
if these Honey bees descended from faulbrütigen, or mixed with honey, at least for sick sticks
mentioned. This course will now take place very frequently, such as in those countries (Russia,
North America), where the bees abschwefelt in the fall to harvest the honey, honey, and now, Bienenbrod
(pollen), wax, brood and bees themselves, without distinction of healthy and diseased Sticks
made into a paste and honey through screens, or rather at all the liquid Body of the solid constituents
filtered off. Such honey bees served, or by the bees themselves random nibble, must necessarily
produce the disease. But this would be taken only as a secondary cause of the foul brood. Acid
or in fermentation subrogated honey, if only he does not harm resulting from diseased hives,
the bees nothing at least he does not cause the foul brood. I have often deliberately honey with a
ferment offset that can occur and the fermentation of honey bees
fed very strongly acidic, perceive them without the least damage,
let the foul brood.

Also Dzierzon says somewhere that sour honey bees do no harm.

deduce the origin of the foul brood of so-called toxic honey dew or what some do, is probably too
far-fetched something. For if the bees really toxic honey like add, so the disease would be
repeated frequently, it would not Floor of an apiary are ill, but the same, or very soon after several
or all tiers of the entire state ill, for we know that if there is a good costume and is nominally
a honey-dew, so not only use one floor of this costume, but all poles simultaneously. Even more
far-fetched but at least the formation of the AFB of the exhalations sick (scrofulous etc.)
people who deal with the bees. Such a view not need a commentary, but collapses on its own. As for
the As for filamentous fungi, which produce a disorder of the jelly making in Chylusmagen to
and thus, as mentioned above, indirect way to create the foul brood, this is already therefore
impossible to accept, because bees quite healthy, not faulbrütiger often sticks with the Fungi
are very affected, while those faulbrütiger sticks very often no mushrooms Harboring what I observed
in the provinces of Moscow and Smolensk to my bees often have. At least the bees of all the sticks
were my pilzlos. At last, what the mode of origin the foul brood of road dust is concerned, it should
be because the dust in such Mass in the brood cells, penetrates the stigmata that he and pores
of the bee larvae completely blocked and thus causing the suffocation
of the larvae, but still would not be the foulbrood.

Similarly, also green spahn containing honey do not generate the actual foulbrood.

As you see, are mentioned here views on the pathomechanism of foulbrood very problematic nature
and are based on very sheer and untenable hypotheses. After I but have rejected all views
the beekeepers of formation of the AFB, will be sent to me the question, which arises because
in fact the foul brood? This question I have already answered in the description of the life of
Phora incrassata. This Dipteron is the real cause of the foul brood. The parasitism of this fly
as a larva in the bee larvae I have already been observed in 1859 in Podolsk, near Moscow and
in the Journal of Horticulture 1860 N. 1, described pag 11th

You may think me and my will, 'cause really the foul brood parasitism by caused a fly? Should
it not rather the opposite is the case, but not the Foulbrood the cause of parasitism of the fly,
that is perhaps not the fly lays its Eggs only in the bee larvae, the latter are already dead?
This is what I need to Having my observations, absolutely deny. One can very easily from the present
Phoridenlarven small deck sparkled in the still non-living bee larvae convincing if one those larvae
from the vicinity of Faulbrütigen selected for investigation. Cut out only the Head of the
larvae from press and carefully remove the contents, with which one, though many Larvae are examined
by carrying out one or the other parasites. Used is a fairly strong magnifying Loupe, one
is safer, you then select those Larvae, which can carry between any
pair of striped a fine scar.

The scar stems from the Legröhre the fly, which tapped the bee larvae with it. With a little
practice can even Fliegenei from the bee larva extract. The egg is, as already mentioned,
just under the skin of the bee larva. The hatched Phoridenlarven burrow immediately, as was
indicated earlier, deeper into the interior of the bee larvae and suggest reside in the fat
networks on. After five days now, the grown Phoridenlarven and this usually comes at the time
when the bee larva has already wrapped up and their transformation expected to nymph. Only in
very rare cases, I also met Phoridenlarven already been turned in to nymphs of bee larvae.
If the Phoridenlarve adult, it relies on the previously described
manner, the bee larva to Gemüll in the hive or to pupate in the soil.

And only now is the bee larva into putrefaction. This is done but not immediately. The first day
is the bee larva is still quite fresh and it can be recognize it only at its rear part a very
small opening through which the Phoridenlarve crept out. The opening was originally larger, by
tightening the skin, but soon after hatching the Phoridenlarve it appears very small, but with
the naked eye clearly visible. The following day, but we already noticed in the wound of the
bee larva Walls of the larval body became darker yellow, the third day, almost brown, and a
greater extension until almost unanimously for the fourth ring. The fourth day the bee larva
until the seventh brown rings and the posterior body-segments are usually already in a slimy
viscous fluid vanished. On the fifth day of the rest of the larva and brownish half the larvae will
have vanished. The sixth day is the whole larva into a homogeneous, slimy and as mentioned earlier,
turned to glue-smelling mass, only the coarser chitinous epidermis remains intact. In this state
remains the ground for five days, then it starts to become more viscous, gradually until, after
another five days dries to a hard dark brown substance on the floor and the walls of the cells.
The dried mass usually maintains a fourth of the cell fill.

Viewed under a microscope, appears faulbrütige mass striped wavy, out and again we notice a
few round granules from undigested pollen, or actually cellulose . There By a fungus not a trace
can be perceived.

Is added to the faulbrütige mass with a double weight of cold distilled water, so only a very small
portion of the mass is dissolved by water. The water gets a brown-reddish color. The faulbrütige mass
does not float on the water, but decreases As, therefore, is specifically heavier than water.
A four-to ten times the amount of water could only a little more resolve from the crowd. During careful
evaporation in moderately heated Sand-bath was given the resolution a syrupy consistency of
a brown color and tasted something sweet with a bitter aftertaste. It consisted of extractive
matter and a bit of glucose.

Very different had hot water on an American foul brood mass. A double weight of hot Infundirt water
on the ground, triggered nearly a fourth of the crowd. Even more, the four times the weight of
hot water poured on the ground and twelve hours in the Heat allowed to stand, even sparked a
bit more than half of the brood mass. The filtered Solution had a yellow-brown color and congealed
on cooling to a thin, sticky, transparent jelly. In cold water, solved this jelly in all proportions.
When Put a part of the solution with alcohol was a fibrous white precipitate. Similarly, the
solution with a resolution of a small amount of pyrogallol added, there arose a white precipitate,
but at the bottom of the vessel as a pretty tough sticky mass was determined. Ether, alcohol,
and benzene solved nothing of the Royal on.

Contrast, dilute sulfuric acid, hydrochloric acid and worked on him completely resolution.
Exposed to air, the royal was in time of 48 hours at a temperature of +18 ° in Putrefaction over and
showed an acid reaction.

Evaporation and subsequent cooling, solidified the liquid to a full Leimmasse. According to these
studies on chemical , Judge seems to me that hot water from the foul brood mass extra fluid
shepherd to consist of gluten.

The fixed filter, the remaining body of the foul brood mass were clearly the larval skin . Recognize
Alcohol dissolved in the heat during a twenty-four hour digestion slightly from the crowd, and
took on a brownish yellow.

By an eight-fold quantity of cold water was a yellowish, powdery precipitate like, consisting of
a resin that russ shining brightly lit with no flame burned. In ether and benzene, the resin
was soluble. On the solid mass with alcohol insoluble ether and benzene were ineffective so
also in the cold or dilute acetic acid or potassium hydroxide. The mass was from chitin.

The dry distillation provided the subject faulbrütige mass following results: ten Drachms carefully
lazy from the cells taken out in a small brood mass were Glass test tube and done in a sand
bath at the beginning of a very gentle flame of alcohol distillation subject. At first, went
as expected, water on. passed after a drachma water was revealed the liquid überdestillirende
a weakly alkaline reaction. It was immediately changed with the Recipient. It might still about
a drachm alkaline water passed be, we saw solid white leaves move with the fluid, but very soon
ceased. It was further fractionated. Now was more alkaline reaction of water, at the same time
with very little brown empyrheumatischem oils, which floated on the water. Soon it sat on the
sides of the retort neck carbonate of ammonia in small quantity at. After a whole half an
ounce of liquid überdestillirte, appeared with a little alkaline Water is a dark brown oil,
which sank in the waters below.

The distillation was to dryness continued and went the whole five and a half drachm of liquid and
fifteen Gran fixed Products through distillation. In the test tube was left a very shiny,
very hard coal. The alkaline water containing ammonia. The oils appeared to those found in the
dry Distillation of the bone gets to be analogous. The solid white body that is equal to the water
went over, consisted of pure, but empyreumatic smelling wax, [50] which later by absorbing oxygen
from the air is browned. The accumulated salt in the retort neck was, as mentioned, carbonate of
ammonia.

The same results provided the tests on the already dried up breeding ground. A dry distillation,
it has not been subjected to.

Now I may conceal a fact but no longer. Not all bee larvae faulbrütigen contained the above parasites.
Many, if not the largest part of the larvae faulbrütigen possessed no opening in the sunken lid and
let it not also prove that in them has been a parasite.

The decomposition of the larvae did not begin, as with those who harbored the parasite, in the
last abdominal segment of the body, but they found the fire, as I have the disease call to take
the start in the intestines, which closely brown and almost black in a few days appeared. From
the bowels of the fire spread on all sides of the body. On fourth day is usually already the whole
matter and fat in the tracheal system decomposition passed and the stigmata are a brown, clear the
fire suggestive coloration marked. On the fifth day, the slimy contents poured out of the intestine
through the mouth opening likewise with the head end to the cell floor looking larva, how we position
in those bee larvae, which were hit by the parasite, met in the cell.
 "This is one of a pair," he said. "I found the other one too."

"You have just come back from the Red Lava Range," said the whistling voice. "How many pairs
did you find?"

Grant stared at the butterfly. Some thought the Jovians could read minds. Grant wondered. Then
he decided to be honest. "Sixteen."

Netse's wings quit moving for a minute. "What do you want me to do?"

"I want you to assure me safe passage to your office. I will give you three-fourths of them,"
Grant blurted. He had not meant to make an offer like that. He had intended to let Netse ask
but the delicacy of his situation hit him abruptly and fully and he was weighed down with sudden
desperation. 

Abdomen with six to seven free belly rings.

In anatomical terms from the family of the genus Melo blisters, and Lytta Mylabris been quite exhaustively
studied. Melo particularly by Brandt and Ratzeburg, [11] Newport [12] and more recently also by Leydig.
[13] All three generations of this family agree essentially consistent with each other, so
that the genus Melo in this relationship as the fundamental type
may be considered.

The nervous system is preferably to mention that the optic lobes of the brain are clearly and
cut off some dark purple can be (at least in Melo) perceive Pygmentflecke, otherwise, the
reddish-neurilemma (Melo) is colored. Thoracic ganglia are three available, wider than long, extending
from the longitudinal commissures between the first and second nodes Since each side a nerve. From
the third to go two stronger nodes and eight weaker side nerves from, but also a nerve plexus, which
Leydig cited pag 287th as a sympathetic conceives. Abdominal ganglia four, elongated oval,
the last one the largest, oblong, rounded rear. The commissures between them very long. From the
three anterior abdominal ganglia two above the other covering lateral nerves springing. A sympathetic
ganglion media appears as a pedunculated sacs at the anterior edge
of the second abdominal ganglion between the two Longitudinal commissures.

Since the sympathetic ganglia are white-gray.

Circulatory and respiratory system shows no particularly significant in the blisters Differences
of the coleopteran at all.

The esophagus is short, extends to the back and lets in a more or less significant constriction
of the cardia, perceive a kind of forestomach, and distinct longitudinal
folds .

Recognize The stomach is large, oblong, cylindrical, transversely wrinkled inside, with traces of tufts,
of the narrow intestine more or less clearly set off. The intestine makes three bends and
has curvature at the second four Malpighian vessels. The rectum is cut off significantly.

The ovaries are berries or grapes shape, the egg-tubes are very numerous, and the fertilized Females
several thousand eggs. Seminal vesicles with a minor.

A pituitary gland. The paired testes are round with thin, very long sperm excretory duct and three
paired accessorial in the ejaculatory duct opening into the tubular glands, of which the particularly
long and tortuous one pair often appears, and the others are much shorter. The ejaculatory
duct is tortuous back several times.

The larvae of the blisters are known except by Melo nor Cantharis, Apalus and Sitaris and vote
in the education and lifestyle consistent with each other very much.

Are you in youth by Horny langestrecktem, plattgedrücktem physique and sharp jaws, three-membered
Endborste provided with a long antennae, two to four ocelli, a pair of far outstretched half-body
long legs, a pair of feeding and length of terminal segment springing bristle, serve them to jump.
Later they appear thick, walzig, soft-bodied and more or less similar to the larvae of Lamellicornia.

Life = =. The family of blisters is phytophagous, you meet the beetles at various herbaceous plants,
less on trees, shrubs. They feed mostly on leaves, some will allow the anthers of the flowers
(Mylabris Cerocoma and I met frequently on the flowers the Labiatae and Umbelliferae, and Spiraeaceen,
the dust bag it nibbling).

Their time of appearance is very different, some take only one more, and even in early summer,
others in late summer to autumn. Some of them often appear in large numbers, and that the other
far greater part occurs only sporadically. Most of them have a very sharp, blistering substance,
which consists of cantharidin and some of the joints of the legs as a yellow juice at the touch emerges.

The
bugs are mostly harmless little creatures that do no harm, but prove to many of them to the
people through their blistering and other properties of highly useful and therefore be used
in the Officin, as for instance in Europe the genus Cantharis [14],
so as Melo, of course, the latter already obsolete, in recent times,
but coming back into use. [15] Only the larvae of some species of
lichen opportunity to practice by their stay at the bee, especially
those of Melo and on the honey bee, an injurious effect on them and
it also hurt the people. He avoided a
patch of electric cactus, for the spines would have electrocuted him even through the suit,
and he went far around an area of white bull-root, shaped like women's legs, because he knew
the bull-root was always infested with swamp-razors that would cut through the seams of his
diving-suit. Once here, It urges
his feet close together, moves with the ridges in the very here in the bee thick hair into
which she presses on, as it apart and then bounding the carapace reaches, where it firmly
attaches itself with its hollow trunk, and often for hours, even sit motionless for days. Sometimes
you meet the little creature, however, even when crawling the bees in the hive, in rocking position,
in which case it is then only with the Central and holds back legs on the thorax of the bee, while
the front feet busy are combing the hair of the bee to speak with ease.

away from the bees, these insects are not able to properly move [51] and die after a few hours. Only
the young from the puppet crept individuals have quite a Lebenstenacität and stay up against
96 hours of life, which therefore comes because they have the stomach nor sufficient nourishment
from the dolls sleep.

The lice are usually solitary bees, but also often in very large numbers, often over a hundred
Left in a bee before. All three individuals bees are harassed by them. But should they torment
chiefly the queens and show that a particular fondness, so when cleaning the queen of them,
the Queen in a short time from these Epizoën again . Subject is [52] In some years, these animals
in some - no difference in weak or strong - sticks very often and in such numbers that most
working bee Bienenlaus one is all about, [53] Yes, some worker bees swarm of them in the same amount,
as the queens. [54]

This summer (1864) were also my Italian bees in Leipzig from these animals afflicted, but I have
the queen of lice not afflicted seen, but usually only the Worker
bees and a few drones. Working slowly and carefully and entirely under water, he located the saurian's
head, concealed in a clump of floating grass. 

The head is horny. Upper lip perfectly, trapezoidal manner. Upper jaw strong, short, blunt, little
bent, evanescent and each provided internally with a wide tooth. Maxillae and labial palpi dreigliederig.
Sensor at the base of the upper jaw is deflected dreigliederig, the first member of thick, spherical,
the following is much thinner, cylindrical. Feet short, but quite strong with Nagel provided
a strong, capable of creeping and digging.

The Pseudochrysalide is dreizehnringelig, horny, plump with thick, slightly curved body, strongly convex
on the back, flat on the belly side. Back and belly of a great framed bead separately. The head is a
mask, in which some immovable elevations consistent with future parts of the head vaguely pronounced.
Feet are missing, instead of these three pairs of tubercles on the thoracic segment. Nine pairs
of stigmata, as well as distributed, as in the second larval form.

(See Plate I. Fig 3.)

The third larval form is consistent with the second. The nymph has no special awards. (See Taf I.
Fig 4.)

Life = =. The Oelkäfer you meet in meadows, fields, on mountainsides, rocks, in the light Wood,
even, as I feel, in gardens, often in places of light soil. They are as animals, which occur almost
every year in the same place and in May, in some years even appear in April and are about to end
June. Their diet consists of lower plants, excellent soft young grass, dandelions, violets, etc.,
which they with great voracity eat in the morning and toward evening, and they often feed with
a front foot, particularly hold the tibia spines of the same and often make eating in a break
in order to their front feet, the antennae and feeding tips from top down to stroke. While
the midday heat, they hide from the sun on the grass, only on cloudy days you meet they also crawling
around in the midday hours and taking food to him. Their movements
are rather clumsy and awkward, however, they can walk and a pair of
foot tall plants to climb by climbing grip the plant with their feet. He started up, but
long habit stopped him almost as soon as he moved. He opened his eyes and was fully awake,
listening for the sound that had awakened him. He heard it, a rasping noise like the sound
of a knife-blade scraped against the grain of a fresh hog-skin. Braula
coeca, Nitsch. 8a. Leg of Braula coeca, Nitsch.

TABLE III.

FIG 1st A young (larva) Gordius subbifurcus, de Siebold. FIG second Tail end of a male Gordius subbifurcus,
de Siebold.

FIG third Mermis albicans, de Siebold.

(Natural thickness.) FIG 4th Tail end of a female Gordius subbifurcus, de Siebold. FIG 5th
Mucor mellitophorus, Hoffmann.

REMARK.

In Parasites in the true sense of every living thing (animal, plant) is to understand which
occurs on or in another living being and is nourished by its juices.

In the bee parasites, one would therefore understand all those animals
and plants which occur in or on the live bees or their larvae, etc.,
and their juices food move would be after that so Braula coeca = =,
which lives on the bees and their juices feeds, as well as = = Mermis
albicans, which is present in the interior of the bee and its fatty
substance eaten, parasites of the bee.

Not so, however, the larvae of Meloiden = =, which the boarding the bees use as it only as a medium
to reach the Bienenbau, arrived here, they leave the bees that feed first from bee eggs and
then live by Bienenbrod.

Such a life must be, strictly speaking, do not use the designation
of parasitism.

The larva enters the first floor as a beast of prey, by devouring a Bee's, later lives they
collected and prepared by the products of the bee. The second way of life this animal would
be better to distinguish from the real treat parasites with plate . Denote

Similarly, the larvae of Trichodes in the sense given not as a parasite of the bee to consider, but
as a robber, the plots of the brood in the cells. Would the Bee larvae are free not in the
hive before, so also would the Trichodeslarven them Outdoor adjust, such as the larvae of the
inquisitor Colosoma = = = or Col. sycophanta = the caterpillars on the ground and the trees
chase. If, however, the Trichodeslarven, which of course happens, count on the parasites, so
you would have the same right also Colosoma and in general the Carabicidenlarven, as well as adults
with their own parasites . Add Then, however, would expand the term "parasite" to most animals,
such As the analogy for you would be entitled to the lions, otters
and so that, in a word Insectivora and all carnivorous beasts of prey
to be regarded as animal parasites, herbivores however, which feed
on living plants, declared plant parasites.

It is but no one occurred to spend these animals for parasites.

So when I Trichodeslarven the Melo and the performers here in the parasite, it is done this is
partly because excellent zoological authorities as these animals
are still parasites , Consider, partly because they cause disease
symptoms and the bees in this document just touching them.

Parasites are divided in ectoparasites (external parasites), so the outside to a being and in
endo-or Entoparasiten (internal parasites), which in the interior of a being . Happen Furthermore,
they are still distinguished as temporary or occasional parasites, who visit only occasionally
their victims in order to satisfy their juices, such as fleas, Mosquitoes, etc., and as stationary,
which their host long time or even through the whole life inhabit. Accordingly, we divided the stationary
parasites in two forms, in life-long and periodic, depending on the parasites occur throughout their
entire life in or on their host, or there for him only until they
reached sexual maturity or their juvenile have dropped and then re-emigrate.

The number of animal parasites of our honey bee is, in comparison to some other Bee species,
such as bumble bees, to name just not great. If we exclude Trichodes and Melo, shall remain
left only four genera with one species, namely Phora incrassata, Braula coeca, Gordius subbifurcus
and Mermis albicans, which so far are parasitic on or in the honey
bee observed. were [2] All other until now with the bees encountered
Arthropods, such as for example, the caterpillars of the wax moth,
the larvae of the beetle bacon, etc., are not parasites. It is
only a part of the bee larvae to decompose. The rest remain healthy, turn into nymphs, we obtain
that the stick after all, even young people, and often two, even three summer long before he
has received throughout. In other my
opinion is still that it is childish, such a treasure house of Flats to haul, "he added seriously.
"Every housewife will admit that their furniture be damaged by frequent relocation, and I think
that even the beautiful work of art like this Take damage, maybe just mentally if you allow
the expression. It is like almost a diamond ring that shines again by the hand of another.
"

       *       *       *       *       *

