+1156+. Certain phases in the relations between religion and science may be distinguished,
but an earlier or cruder phase may continue to exist alongside of a later and higher one. There
is first the time when science based on a recognition of natural laws does not exist. The existing
science is then one of imagination, the fanciful application of crude observations to the explanation
of all phenomena. The verae causae are supernatural agencies--science and religion are one.
Explanations of phenomena take the form of what we call myths, what the people of the time
regard as true histories. There is no place for the conception of miracle; the supernatural
agents are all-powerful, one thing is no harder than another, nothing is strange or inexplicable.
There is a crude conception of the unity of God and the world.

+1157+. The period of the rise and decline of the great national religions and the rise of
monotheistic cults (along with which may be included Confucianism and Buddhism) is characterized
by a great development of philosophy (in China, India, and Greece) and a beginning of scientific
research properly so called (especially in astronomy, physics, medicine, and chemistry, in
Greece and by the Moslems of Persia). There is a revolt against the older conception of unity.
Deities are highly personalized, stand outside of the world, and intervene in human affairs
at crises. It is the age of miracles--supernatural Powers, by reason of their intimate social
relations with their respective communities, are expected to come to their aid in all important
matters, and, for most persons, there is no difficulty in holding that they are able to change
the course of nature, which is not regarded as being absolutely fixed. In certain philosophical
circles, however, this view is rejected, and nature, with its laws, is conceived of as a separate
and independent existence, accompanied or not by gods. Science begins to define the nature
of deities, and to limit the sphere of their practical activities--this is a precursor of the
fall of the old divinities. The old myths are retained, but they are purified, humanized, and
allegorized, and in some cases applied, to new persons and events, according to changes in
religious construction.

+1158+. The next phase is the recognition by science of the absolute domination of natural
law in the world of phenomena. Religion, when it accepts this view, holds fast to the belief
in the ultimate personal moral Force, and conceives of this Force as working and expressing
and manifesting itself only in phenomena in accordance with natural law--that is, this law
is regarded as the expression of the divine will. Science is thus given liberty to investigate
phenomena to the fullest extent, and religion is freed from the incumbrance of physical, psychological,
and metaphysical theories; the spheres of the two are sharply defined and kept separate. Such
a conception is held to differ from "naturalism" or "materialism" in that it recognizes a Power
distinct from matter--to differ from what has been called "humanism" (which makes man the sole
power in the world), or from positivism (which regards man as the only worthy object of worship),
in that it ascribes to the will and activity of divine spirit the high position of humanity
as the center and explanation of the life of the world--to differ from pantheism in that for
it God is a personal being who enters into relations with a free humanity--and to differ from
agnosticism in that it holds that God may be known from his works.

+1159+. Whatever difficulties may attach to this conception are regarded by its adherents as
not insuperable. In all religious systems except Buddhism and Positivism the personality of
the ultimate ground of the world is looked on as a necessary datum. In the view under consideration
it is held that God exists for the world in which he expresses himself, as the world exists
for him, its source and end. The world, with all its parts and incidents, is conceived of as
a sacred thing, consecrated to God, and ever striving to realize him in itself, and itself
in him. Under the guidance of exacter scientific thought the old crude idea of the unity of
the divine and the world is thus transformed into the idea of a unity of will and work. In
this conception there is no place for myths, and no need is felt for miracles: histories of
the external world and of human society are held to rest on observation of facts, and generally
the possibility of miracles is not denied, but they are regarded as unnecessary and improbable--they
are thought unnecessary because the conception of the divine character and the religious life
are not supposed to be dependent on them, and they are thought improbable because they are
held to be not supported by experience. This is the attitude of those persons who accept the
conclusions of science; there is, however, great difference of opinion in the religious world
on this point.[2105]

+1160+. Certain scientific and philosophical positions discard religion as a department of
human life. When it is held that man knows nothing and can know nothing but phenomena, or when,
if something is assumed behind phenomena, it is regarded as too vague to enter into personal
relations with men, religion as a force in life becomes impossible. In these cases the two
conceptions must stand side by side as enemies till one or the other is proved, to the satisfaction
of men, to be untenable. Meanwhile it appears that one result of scientific investigations
has been to delimitate religion by making it clear that, while it belongs as an influence to
all life, it cannot include scientific theories as a part of its content--a result that cannot
be otherwise than favorable to its development.

THE ETHICAL ELEMENT

+1161+. Conduct has always been associated with religion. Supernatural Powers have been regarded
as members of the tribe or other society, divine headmen part of whose function it is to see
that the existing customs are observed, these customs being ethical as well as ritual. Even
in such low tribes as the Fuegians and the Australians the anger of some Power is supposed
to follow violation of law. Instructions to initiates often include moral relations.[2106]
The connection of morals with religion in the more advanced peoples is close. In this regard
a distinction is to be made between the creation and the adoption and treatment of ethical ideals.

+1162+. Ethical codes are never created by religion but are always adopted by it from current
usages and ideas.[2107] Rules respecting the protection of life, property, and the family are
found everywhere--they arise out of natural social relations, even the simplest, and grow in
definiteness and refinement with the advance of society, so that things at one period lawful,
and accepted by religious authorities, are at a later period prohibited.[2108] Kindness to
one's fellows is common in the lowest tribes, and in higher civilizations is formulated as
a golden rule (Confucius, Book of Tobit, New Testament, and virtually the Egyptian Ptahhotep,
the Old Testament Book of Proverbs, Buddha). Truthfulness, fidelity, and justice have been
generally recognized as things to be approved--roughly defined and aimed at in rude communities,
more exactly defined and more clearly held up as ideals in higher communities. All these virtues
are taken up more or less definitely into religious codes.

+1163+. Less praiseworthy customs and ideas also have been indorsed by religious law. Where
sexual license prevails it is made a feature in religious ritual and other ceremonies after
it has become a part of social usage and law. It is true that it is generally at first naïve,
and, being not illegal, is not a violation of rights and not immoral in the sense in which
a refined age regards it.[2109] But it tends, even among savages, to become socially bad, and,
when it survives into times of higher standards, is a corrupting influence. In this bad form
it was sanctioned by religious authorities in Canaan (even at one time among the Hebrews),[2110]
Greece, and Syria, and exists to-day in India as an accompaniment of religious worship. The
records of religious cruelty are familiar. Wholesale slaughter, persecution, torture have been
abundantly practiced in the name of religion.[2111] Many social institutions (such as slavery
and polygamy) countenanced by a given age have been adopted in the religious codes of the age.
These examples illustrate the fact that religion does not undertake to fix the details of ethical
conduct--its rôle is something different. This statement applies to the institution of taboo,
as is remarked above[2112]--its ritual rules are not moral, and its moral rules are adopted
from social usage. It was influential in the organization of society, but not in the way of
adding anything to the moral code. In modern economic and other social questions that have
an ethical side the details are left to science; religion contents itself with insisting on
moral principles as having divine authority, and these principles, as moral, are already recognized
by society.

+1164+. Discrepancy between codes and conduct has always existed--few religious persons live
up to the standards that they regard as authoritative. This failure concerns not the sincerity
of the religious society in setting up its standard, but the conditions regulating actual conduct.

A natural consequence of the coexistence of religion and ethics in human life has been that
each has influenced the other. Advance in the purity and clearness of social ethical ideals
has had the effect of modifying not only religious codes but also religious dogmas. The old
belief (founded on the conception of social solidarity) that a family, tribe, or nation was
punished by the deity for the sin of one of its members vanished before the recognition of
individual responsibility. The doctrines of eternal punishment and vicarious expiatory suffering
are now rejected by some religious bodies and circles as unjust. When they are maintained,
it is on the ground that they are not unjust--the appeal is to an ethical principle. Apart
from the fact of maintenance or rejection, the tendency is to try all doctrines by moral standards.
If they are rejected and yet stand, or seem to stand, in sacred books, then either the statements
of the books are interpreted in accordance with the moral standards, or the ethical authority
of the books is set aside.

+1165+. The influence of religion on ethics has been in the way not of modifying codes but
of enforcing existing ideas and customs and giving an impulse to moral life. It has commonly
furnished supernatural sanctions--rewards and punishments in this life or in the other. How
far this conception has been effective in restraining men from actual ill-doing, in furthering
good conduct, and in developing inward loyalty to the right, may be a question. To answer this
question would require such a collection of facts as has never been made and perhaps cannot
be made. We can see that the belief in divine rewards and punishments has sometimes been a
real power, sometimes seems to have no effect. The character of the sanctions varies with the
growth of refinement, advancing from the crude savage and later ideas of physical pains and
pleasures to the conception of moral degradation or salvation. The recognition of rewards and
punishments for one's self as incentives to good living is not regarded as immoral if they
are not made the chief motive--the prevailing view is that it is legitimate to look for results
of action, that, however, devotion to right must always be independent of results that affect
only the actor. Whatever the general effect of belief in supernatural sanctions, it must be
concluded that the existence of morality in the world is not dependent on this belief. The
common social motives for practicing justice and kindness are so strong and so persistent that
these virtues must always retain a certain supremacy apart from men's religious creeds. The
term 'supernatural' is used above in the more usual sense of 'opposed to natural,' but, according
to one religious point of view, all things are the direct work of God, so that there is no
difference between 'natural' and 'supernatural,' and the real sanctions of morality are all
the conditions of life, external and internal.[2113]

+1166+. The most important elements that religion (though only in its highest form) has introduced
into ethics are a grandiose conception of the basis and nature of the moral life, and a tone
of tenderness in the attitude toward the deity and toward men. The moral code it regards as
the will of God, conscience as the voice of God, morality as obedience to God, all activity
as a coworking with God. Nobility is given to the good life by making it a part of the eternal
divine purpose of the world. The conception of human life as an essential factor in the constitution
and history of the world is common to religion and philosophy, but religion adds the warmth
of personal relation with the divine head of the world. Into the philosophical and ethical
view of the unity of humanity religion infuses reverence and affection for the individual as
being not merely one of the component parts of the mass but a creature of God, the object of
his loving care, capable of redemption and union with God. Here again, while there is no addition
to the content of the ethical code, there is added intensity of feeling, which may be a spur
to action.

+1167+. In the sphere of religion, as in all spheres of human activity, ideas and tendencies
are embodied in human personalities by whom they are defined, illustrated, and enforced--not
only in founders of religious systems and other great leaders of thought, but in lesser everyday
persons who commend religion, each to his limited circle, by purity of life. The special ethical
figures contributed to history by religion are those of the martyr and the saint. The martyr
is one who bears witness passively to what he regards as truth at the cost of his life; he
thus differs from the hero, who is a man of action. The martyr spirit is found elsewhere than
in religious history, but it is in this latter that it has played its special ethical rôle--divergencies
from established faiths always excite peculiarly sharp hostility. When it is pure loyalty to
convictions of truth, it is an ethical force of great moment--a permanent inspiration.[2114]
It is less valuable when it springs from the hope of personal advantage, when a controlling
consideration is the belief that one goes directly from the stake (as Moslem warriors believed
they went from death in battle) to celestial happiness. There arose at times (for example,
in the Decian and Diocletian persecutions of the third century, and in Cordova in the ninth
century, when there was no persecution) a fanatical desire for the honors of martyrdom that
had to be checked by the Church leaders.

+1168+. The saint is related to the virtuous man as holiness to virtue. The difference between
them is one not of ethical practice but of motive and sentiment--holiness is virtue consecrated
to the deity. The saint, like the martyr, is often an ethical power. When the title is given
officially as an ecclesiastical honor, it may or may not carry with it moral excellence. In
Brahmanism, Buddhism, Judaism, Christianity, and Islam saintship has sometimes been contaminated
with physical and ritual ideas and practices, and so far ceases to have ethical value.[2115]

+1169+. The evil influence of the religious point of view on ethical life has been of the general
nature already referred to:[2116] embalming and sanctifying outgrown and injurious social institutions;
substituting form for spirit; encouraging asceticism; drawing sharp lines of demarcation between
men on the basis of religious opinions, and so far creating an antisocial spirit.

+1170+. The development of the sense of obligation to do right (conscience) is due to so many
different influences that it is hard to say exactly what part any one of these has taken in
the process. But obviously religion has been an important factor in the result so far reached.
By its distinct connection of the favor of the deity with conduct it has tended to fix attention
on the latter and to strengthen the feeling that righteousness is the sovereign thing. Though
such regard for right-doing is at first mainly egoistic, it easily becomes an ideal, reverenced
for its own sake, and more powerful because it is identified with a person and colored by the
sentiments of gratitude and love that religion calls forth. Religion, especially in the earlier
forms of society, though not only in them, has been a pedagogue to lead men to the acknowledgment
of the supremacy of the moral law. It differs from other such guides in the tone of mingled
humility and enthusiasm that it gives to this fealty.

+1171+. As to the existence of moral evil in the world, religion can only regard it as the
work of supernatural Powers. In the savage period the question does not come up--moral evil
is taken as a part of the nature of things and is not curiously inquired into. In later times
it is ascribed to some malevolent spirit or deity who is either independent of the supreme
deity (as in certain half-civilized tribes) or is tolerated by him (Angro Mainyu, Satan), or
to a subordinate employed by him (lies put into the mouths of prophets by a deity),[2117] or
to a quite separate divine Power, not necessarily malevolent (as in some philosophical theories).
Religion may adopt some philosophical explanation--as that evil is only failure to reach the
good, or only the lower step to which we look back from a greater height, or an inevitable
accompaniment of a scheme of life characterized by struggle and intended to recognize the freedom
of the will and to develop moral autonomy--but, from its own resources it can only say that
it is a thing inexplicable by man, belonging to a divine plan that the devout soul accepts
as right because God has ordained it.

+1172+. The theory of man's native incapacity to do right (total depravity), held by some religious
bodies, is antimoral since it denies human freedom. The attempt to modify it by the supposition
of divine impartation of moral power is inadequate unless such power is held to be given to
every person, and this amounts to an indirect affirmation of freedom and denial of moral impotency.
The theory is, however, practically innocuous, being rejected or ignored by the universal consciousness
of freedom.

+1173+. To the questions, raised by philosophy, whether the world is essentially good or bad
and whether life is worth living, theistic religion gives a simple answer: a perfect God implies
a perfect universe; this answer is germinal and confused in early religion, and is definitely
stated only in the higher systems. The great theistic sacred books, Jewish, Christian, Mazdean,
and Moslem, all teach that though there are present limitations and sufferings, there is to
be a happy issue for the faithful out of all distresses, and the Buddhistic view, though nontheistic,
is essentially the same as this; as for other persons, they are sometimes included in a final
restoration, when moral evil is to disappear, sometimes are excluded from the happy outcome,
but in both cases the scheme of the world is regarded as good. Leaving out of view the question
as to the exact interpretation of the facts of life, this optimism is ethically useful as giving
cheerfulness and enthusiasm to moral life, with power of enduring ills through the conviction
of the ultimate triumph of the right. It may pass into a stolid dogmatic ignoring or denial
of the existence of evil, and then tends to become inhuman and therefore ethically bad.[2118]
It is, however, commonly saved from such an unfortunate result by common sense and the instinct
of sympathy. And it is so general a conception and its goal is so remote that it cannot be
a strong and permanent moral force for most persons--immediate experiences are as a rule more
powerful than remote expectations. But, so far as it is a living faith, religious optimism
is in the main a healthy ethical factor in life.

  FOOTNOTES:

  [1] That is, phenomena regarded as special acts of a
  superhuman Power; in the larger conception of religion all
  phenomena are at once natural and divine acts.

  [2] In early religion they are usually ghosts, beasts,
  plants, or inanimate objects; rarely living men. Cf.
  Marett's remarks on pre-animistic religion in his Threshold
  of Religion.

  [3] Appeal to the Powers carries with it a certain sense of
  oneness with them, in which we may reasonably recognise the
  germ of the idea of union with God, which is the highest
  form of religion. This idea is not consciously held by the
  savage--it takes shape only in highly developed thought
  (Plato, the New Testament, Christian and other mysticism).
  If the impulse to religion be thought to be love of life (so
  Leuba, in the Monist, July, 1901), this is substantially
  desire for safety and happiness.

  [4] Spencer and Gillen, Native Tribes of Central
  Australia, p. 170.

  [5] Gen. xxviii, 20-22; Hos. ii; Ezek. xxxvi; and the
  Psalter passim.

  [6] The classic expression of this view is given by Statius
  (Th. 3, 661): primus in orbe deos fecit timor. Cf. L.
  Marillier, in International Monthly, ii (1900), 362 ff.

  [7] For numerous examples of the belief in supernatural
  birth see E. S. Hartland, Primitive Paternity.

  [8] Modern civilised nations, after victories in war,
  commonly assume that God has thus pronounced in favor of the
  justice and right of their side, and sing Te Deums.

  [9] This vagueness reappears in some systems of late
  philosophic speculation. On the question whether a sense of
  the divine exists anterior to conscious experience cf.
  Marett, Threshold of Religion.

  [10] This is only a particular application of the general
  assumption that all human powers exist in germ in the lowest
  human forms. Discussions of the sense of the infinite are
  found in the Gifford Lectures of F. Max Müller and Tiele,
  and in Jastrow's Study of Religion. But early man thinks
  only of the particular objects with which he comes into
  contact; the later belief in an Infinite is a product of
  experience and reflection.

  [11] Cf. Année sociologique, iii (1898-1899), 205 ff.

  [12] On the Fuegians cf. R. Fitzroy, in Voyages of the
  Adventure and the Beagle, ii (1831-1836), 179 ff.; on the
  African Pygmies, A. de Quatrefages, The Pygmies (Eng. tr.,
  1895), p. 124 ff.; W. Schmidt, Pygmäenvölker, p. 231 ff.;
  on Ceylon, T. H. Parker, Ancient Ceylon, iv; and on the
  Guaranis and Tapuyas (Botocudos) of Brazil, Waitz-Gerland,
  Anthropologie, iii, 418, and the references in Hastings,
  Encyclopædia of Religion and Ethics, ii, 837 f. The
  Fuegians are said to stand in awe of a "black man" who, they
  believe, lives in the forest and punishes bad actions. On
  the people of New Guinea see C. G. Seligmann, The
  Melanesians of British New Guinea, chaps. 16, 25, 48, 55.

