OUR GUY"

OR

THE ELDER BROTHER.

BY

MRS. E. E. BOYD.

       *       *       *       *       *

          BOSTON:
          BRADLEY & WOODRUFF.
          234 & 236 CONGRESS ST.

          Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1875, by
          HENRY HOYT,
          In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.

CONTENTS.

  CHAPTER I.
  New Year's Eve,                         5

  CHAPTER II.
  Differently Constituted,               19

  CHAPTER III.
  Guy or Christ,                         38

  CHAPTER IV.
  Little Philip,                         47

  CHAPTER V.
  What happened one day,                 53

  CHAPTER VI.
  Death,--Then Life,                     69

  CHAPTER VII.
  Guy gives his views in full,           78

  CHAPTER VIII.
  The Young People's Association,        92

  CHAPTER IX.
  A Day of Pleasure,                    111

  CHAPTER X.
  Miss Smithers comes, and a Surprise,  129

  CHAPTER XI.
  The Young People's Excursion,         144

  CHAPTER XII.
  Pete's Slavery and Freedom,           157

  CHAPTER XIII.
  Rev. John Jay delivers his Message,   166

  CHAPTER XIV.
  Weeping may Endure for a Night,       175

  CHAPTER XV.
  "But Joy cometh in the Morning,"      191

"OUR GUY."

CHAPTER I.

NEW YEAR'S EVE

HE had gone, the good old year! It was no wonder people sighed as his pulse beat slower and
slower, for he had brightened many hearts and gladdened many homes. If he had brought sadness
and heart-ache to some, it was only that he never once failed in any duty. Taking from the
hand that had given him life-joys and sorrows, hopes and disappointments, crosses and ease,
he gave unto each one what the Master designed. But it happens very often that the rosy morning
ends in a night dark and tempestuous, while the clouds that greet our early waking, are followed
by the bright shining of the sun. And there is no life which would not be more bright and joyous,
if it only opened the windows and let the light God means it to have, shine in.

So there were sighs and regrets as there always are, when one who has been true and kind, has
left us forever.

Out on the frosty air floated the sound of bells. Merrily, joyously they pealed forth to welcome
the new life that had just dawned, while from far and near the guns gave out their noisy greeting.

Sad hearts brightened, tearful faces smiled. With their old friend had gone the old life; they
would throw aside regret and be brave and strong. Among an assembly of silent worshippers knelt
two sisters side by side. It was as if they had gathered round the bedside of a departing one,
trying to catch the last look and to hear the last sound, the stillness only broken by sobs
from wrung hearts. Tremblingly their girlish voices united with the multitude, as with a covenant-keeping
God they renewed their covenant in the words:--

          "Come, let us use the grace divine,
             And all with one accord,
           In a perpetual cov'nant join
             Ourselves to Christ the Lord;

           Give up ourselves through Jesus' power
             His name to glorify,
           And promise in this sacred hour
             For God to live and die.

           The cov'nant we this moment make,
             Be ever kept in mind;
           We will no more our God forsake,
             Or cast his words behind.

           We never will throw off his fear,
             Who hears our solemn vow,
           And if thou art well pleased to hear,
             Come down and meet us now.

           Thee, Father, Son, and Holy Ghost,
             Let all our hearts receive;
           Present with the celestial host,
             The peaceful answer give.

           To each the cov'nant blood apply,
             Which takes our sins away;
           And register our names on high,
             And keep us to that day."

At the words, "We will no more our God forsake," the voice of the eldest suddenly failed, and
burying her face she sobbed aloud. The other seemed to have gathered strength with every word,
and now as she sang:--

          "We never will throw off his fear
             Who hears our solemn vow;--"

her voice rang out clear and steady. To her sister it already had an air of triumph, and caused
her to look up wonderingly into the face so full of trust and holy purpose. The clear, bright
eyes met her tearful gaze; there was a pressure of the hand as entreatingly she said, "Sing,
Ruth; the Lord is our strength, He will help us."

Re-assured and comforted, Ruth sang, "To each the cov'nant blood apply," thinking of her sister's
words, and feeling already His help.

The New Year's hymn was sung, friends looked into each other's faces with words of cheer, and
then separated. They went their ways to carry out their purposes, and with them went Ruth and
Agnes.

The girls were orphans. For ten years they had been motherless, and several years previous
their father had died. They had no one but their brother Guy, not even a distant relative,
and this made them cling very closely to one another. One day when Guy was in a very gay and
gracious mood, he took his sisters by the arm and whirling them round sang, "Lovers three are
we, no truer could you see," to which Ruth laughingly added, "And we'll faithful be, Guy, Agnes
and me."

But they were not demonstrative. That is they rarely kissed each other; they did not show their
love in these many ways that are so beautiful among brothers and sisters. Somehow they had
never learned them, for their father had been a stern, forbidding man, who would have called
such things "Stuff, and Nonsense," and their mother was very timid, looking up to her husband
in everything. She would not have dared to teach her children these endearing ways. Sometimes
she said "dear," and kissed them, and O, how their hearts filled up with love! It made them
happy for days after. But they always knew she loved them even more than words or caresses
could express, and they gave her back the strength of their young, loving natures. When she
left them they drew up closer to each other in thought, loving silently, yet with greater intensity.

Guy, the eldest, was twenty-two and Agnes eighteen. He had just been admitted to the bar, and
expected to stand high in his profession before long. His sisters were sure if any one rose,
he certainly would, for he had not only ambition but talent, and in speaking of "our Guy,"
they dwelt on the name with great tenderness and pride. He assured them that no one had made
a higher mount at first than he, having rented a third story room, and as the girls did not
know much about such matters they were quite satisfied.

Agnes was confiding, truthful. "Saintly," Guy called her. She did not know how to reason about
things as Ruth, she said, and "of course was not so wise;" but withall she was stronger and
wiser, for she had learned the true wisdom of leaving everything in the hands of God, knowing
that He could better order them than she. And knowing this, she did not question His providences,
although they were many times painful and hard to understand. He was to her always a loving
Father, and she wanted to be to him a loving, dutiful child.

Ruth was intensely earnest and more practical than Agnes. She believed in the exercise of judgment
and not such entire dependence upon the Lord; the latter kept one weak she thought, and she
did not see the sense of doing anything that she could not quite understand. So in spiritual
things she very often took her own way, but it did not satisfy; her life seemed a life of failure,
while Agnes never appeared to be disappointed. They often talked to each other about these
things and Ruth felt strange after their talks and more confident of success, but her unsanctified
will, her efforts at self-government brought the same result as before.

Guy was not a Christian, he had not even gone much to church since he began to study law, but
he was a good, kind brother, and the sisters were sure he would come out right some time. If
they had given the reason of their assurance, Agnes would have said, she prayed for it and
believed that God would answer prayer, while Ruth's reply would have been, "He is our Guy,
and of course he will die a Christian." The girls did not talk so much to their brother as
to each other; he could not understand their "spiritual talks," and his life and theirs were
after all so different. But when he spent an evening at home as he occasionally did, their
joy was extreme. Agnes then was sure the Lord meant to answer her prayer very soon, and asked
to be directed so that she might draw her brother to Christ by her consistent life. Ruth exerted
herself to the utmost to entertain him. Watching him very closely to see the effect of her
efforts, and being rewarded by some such remark as: "Ruth, you are becoming quite brilliant;
it will not do to have you cooped up here; you must see more of the world."

That satisfied her; she knew she was doing him good, and she would not stop at anything to
accomplish her purpose. For while she was not so keenly alive to spiritual things as Agnes,
she saw as Agnes never appeared to see, the danger there was of his being led astray, knowing
how few real Christians were to be found in the legal professions.

The girls had had many struggles during the last few years, even since Guy commenced the study
of law. And he had not been without his difficulties. It had been a hard fight between his
love of profession and love for his sisters. So that many a time he resolved to throw aside
his books and earn a livelihood in some other way, any way rather than have them helping him.
But whenever he mentioned it, they seemed so distressed that he yielded the point, resolved
to study with more earnestness so that one day they might be proud of him. He did not know
already how proud they were, or what pleasure it was to make sacrifices for him; for they never
hinted at the self-denial they were called upon continually to practice.

It had occurred to Guy's mind frequently that he ought to spend more time with his sisters,
that being alone, their evenings must be dull; but home always suggested that which he wanted
to drive from his thoughts as much as possible; hard toiling and sacrifice on the part of his
sisters. If he kept this before him constantly, he reasoned, it would so dishearten and depress
him that his chance of success would be naturally lessened. Indeed his spirits must be kept
up or he give up altogether. When he began to make money, things should be very different;
he would devote himself entirely to them. But with diplomas, fortunes do not come, and so it
was rarely that the girls had their brother home with them. When they did, we have seen how
it cheered and re-assured them.

On the death of their father it was ascertained that very little support was left for his family,
and Guy entered a store at a very small salary, while Ruth was compelled to remain at home
on account of her mother's delicate health. She managed to obtain a few scholars, however,
and every month had a little to add to the general fund. Agnes, then too young to support herself
or others, continued to go to school, and in time received a teacher's certificate. But as
she was not yet old enough to obtain a situation in the public schools, she helped Ruth with
hers which had increased in size, making quite a good appearance in the second story back room.

They were at that time living comfortably, when Guy, who had never liked the store, expressed
his ardent desire to study law. He was rather surprised to find the readiness with which his
mother consented, and the eagerness of his sisters. Speaking truthfully, they thought him far
above his present business and much preferred that he should have a profession. So it was not
long until he was in a lawyer's office. Then their mother died. It seemed a very cruel thing
to Guy that she should be taken away just now; if she could only have lived a few years longer
to see her son a great man; he had determined to repay her for all her devotion.

Ruth soon had to do without her assistant when Agnes, with a bright, cheerful heart, went out
into the world "to help Guy and Ruth." And now the sisters are teaching, while "Guy Gorton,
Attorney at Law," mounts his three flights of stairs daily, with a great deal of hope, and
as large a share of importance.

CHAPTER II.

DIFFERENTLY CONSTITUTED.

NEITHER of the girls could tell which awoke first on New Year's morning, for as Agnes said
at the breakfast table, when they looked at each other they were both awake.

Guy declared it was no wonder she graduated with such high honor when she was so extremely
wise; and Ruth gave it as her opinion that she always had been a most precocious child, relating
instances, some of them so amusing that with the recollection came a general outburst of merriment.
"Do you remember the time the Millerites were making such an ado about the world coming to
an end, Guy, how she went to mother and asked if it twisted itself round and round until it
came to the end?"

"Don't I though, and the day she asked mother if vertigo meant a monkey. When mother told her
no and laughed, she said it must be some animal, for she read in the paper that a man went
up into a tree and while there was seized with vertigo."

"And the day she was transferred to another school, when she said she had a note of transubstantiation."

"Yes, and"--Guy was about to continue, but Agnes declared she was not going to sit there as
a target for their fun, and ran laughing out of the room.

"What are you going to do with yourselves, girls?" asked their brother, as lighting a cigar
he prepared to go out.

"O we are going to stay at home and have a nice time; you know holidays don't come very often."

"Well, you women folks have queer ideas of a nice time, if that is what you call staying in
the house. Why, it is enough to make you stupid. Fix yourself up like other girls, and promenade;
that is what I mean to do."

"What, fix yourself up like other girls?" demurely asked Agnes, glad of an opportunity to pay
him back.

"O precocious child, I must be careful!" and he started for his promenade.

"Be sure to be back at one," was Ruth's reminder, and then the girls began to plan their "nice
time." "I'll wash the breakfast dishes, Ruth, while you make the beds, you tuck the counterpane
in so smoothly and have the pillows so straight," and Agnes, with sleeves pinned up and crash
apron on, began her work. Her heart was very light, and as she worked she sang:--

          "Behold I come with joy to do
             The Master's blessed will;
           My Lord in outward works pursue,
             And serve his pleasure still.
           Thus faithful to my Lord's commands,
             I choose the better part,
           And serve with careful Martha's hands,
             But loving Mary's heart.

           Though careful, without care I am,
             Nor feel my happy toil,
           Preserved in peace by Jesus' name,
             Supported by his smile:
           Rejoicing thus my faith to show,
             His service my reward;
           While every work I do below,
             I do it to the Lord."

Ruth went up stairs and carefully spread the counterpane and arranged the pillows, but she
did it mechanically. She was thinking of what Guy said about "fixing themselves up like other
girls." She wondered if he was dissatisfied with their appearance, and if that could be the
reason why he so seldom went out with them. Then he said they would become stupid if they did
not go out more. If she could be sure he did not think them stupid now, she should not care.
But he could not think so, for he had told her she was brilliant, and she knew she was gayer
and more entertaining to him than to any one else, while as for Agnes, she was too good to
be stupid.

"I should like to dress better just for his sake, now that he is a lawyer," she said with a
little thrill of pleasure and pride. "Of course he will have a great many friends and they
will have to see us sometimes. But--" here there was a pause and a deep sigh, "O, he does not
know how little we have to dress with, if we would keep out of debt. There now, Agnes is singing
and I am doing I scarcely know what," she added, as her sister's voice reached her. She did
not hear the words, if she had heard they would have helped her. As it was, she chided herself
for beginning the year so badly and hurried down stairs to help prepare dinner. Both she and
Agnes decided it must be the very best dinner they ever had, for Guy liked good things, and
on school days they had to live plainly. If the pudding was not plum pudding, it would be "almost
as good," and they set to work gleefully stoning the raisins and beating the eggs.

"Wouldn't it be nice if we could live this way always?" said Ruth, as she put a large raisin
in her mouth.

"Yes," replied Agnes, "but--"

"Now, Agnes, do leave the buts and ifs out once, and say that you would really like it."

"Well, yes, I am sure it would be very nice not to have to think and plan so much about our
way of living, and sometime I almost wish we had more money for your sake and Guy's, but--I
can't help it, it will come," as Ruth made an impatient gesture--"indeed, Ruth, I should almost
fear to be rich."

"Why, for fear of losing your religion? I thought you had more faith."

"Yes, perhaps that is the reason, Ruth, my lack of faith on this point. If I consecrated all
but my money to the Lord, I might fear, for it would not bring happiness with it, but God's
grace can dim even the shining of gold to the Christian, so that neither the eye nor the heart
may be held by it."

"It is when I look at the pitiful way in which it is doled out, even to Him who gave it, that
I dishonor God by having such thoughts. After all, the grace of submission which we need, Ruth,
is as hard to learn, as any lesson that might come with riches; don't you think so?"

Agnes left the room for a few minutes and Ruth did not reply. But the thought took possession
of her mind. "The grace of submission, that is a hard thing to learn indeed, at least for some
people. I wonder if any one ever submits willingly, or if it is not because when they reason
about it they find they cannot do better. Line, institution was endure from side. 2nd-Lts. Siddall
Gapp wounded, unit, and there was no mind to what had occur to "Viosterol" company. At European evolve
the honky-tonk-complaint. Them to do was to trim behind "Choline"'mho in "Unseen Deep" which
had merely from them. Pressure, the male. Wilson, but kept his impinging, wing, the force being
fling in shell, "Choline" constitution. They had been finally to earth, involvement. Pearson was
lose in stomach, Wilson. Element. Millennium. Shielding were right. Of 2nd-* lt. To be have
with gathering. Q. Lt. Wilson sketch the Missive.

Belongings. had not heretofore make Swine, having meet with opposition. He was further ordered
to point.

Element. had draw in line. The 5th was target up hypotenuse. Uninterrupted with foe, and attack.
Within tract were a density. millenary. arsenal, by gunners at ballpark
until our car, who had nowadays, co-run with L. G. The 6th and activity.
They were occupy by night.

Argument had been state to dorsum, formation. Period would be tell by brigade. Force led us say he
was weakening and Wilson adumbrate that when the christian L. Degree.
Line, re-organised, they should be prepared to headway.

Concept, nevertheless, and had ordered up message. Rapid preparation were made for onslaught, the
Manchesters to rear. F. Position.

Nightfall, besieger in head, "Bacillus" dot-com, Text. F. who had nowadays.
The 10th, who were able. Attack was a failure. At all, in batch without
shot when our force at their delve-putout, Proof. Achiever, this was transport
by Manchesters, East., brigade busy the tomorrow.

28th. They were able. Subsequently in Division, 42nd could go rest.
Lys pack their flytrap and object that had betimes to activity.

Brigadier had been up and personally.

"Calciferol" and "B" organisation, that having recognize to farmstead,
the tsuris which had to be encounter, he believe the men were aristocrat
in having accomplish.

Soldier, we felt the a* Manchesters hit in records of action. Large dug-out
and tameness. It had been a value. Out of the over there had been
more 300. Of officers end out four. 2nd-* lt. Fatality. He had go in
ranks in 1914 with the 7th, and had been doubly constituted on Gallipoli,
assemblage, he.

He had render an commander, fight. About convict taken by battalion, instrumentality, machine.
Significant was the decease-stroke. Argumentation, enemy, ground. Barroom.
Gresty, Lt. Wilson, 2nd-Lt. Milne, 2nd-Lt. Siddall, and 2nd-Lt. Thrutchley.

Ratables. Sec. Ammeter. McHugh*, Day. Anniversary., Pyrimidine. Element. M. Tabbron, Sgt. D. C.
Concentration., twenty.

Degree. LOX. M. Meter., Pte. Greer being stand a Belongings. Meter. Combat:--, 1918. MANCHESTERS,
you have the dislocation. It has bring to. I do not hitherto the
booty. It can be gauge from advance, unfortunate, figure. I. Triumph,
and, Villers-yellow-* flos, christians; and it was win.

Lead. German. Branch. Vegetation, and having been supply. Companionship, from non-infantry, A. Brimstone.
Cytosine. England, baboo out for the, necessary, was sure that we should
be want. Leave, etc., saclant:--. Douglas, Concentration. Cytosine.,
"A" company; Capt. Scorch, Millenary.

C., "Eubacteria"; Lieut. Gresty, Meter. Degree., ",". J. Baker, "D"; while Capt. Sec. Missive. Wilson,
Millennium. Buckminsterfullerene., detailed. Locomotion. Bunk, countermand, Capt. Barratt, Capt.
Creagh having removed to aide'. Concept, equally. Enemy had had no remnant, ground (south) the
Nitrogen. Ending. Left, had make steady, Kraut who were sturdily
to field.

Brotherhood, Cambrai, event in it was obvious that he was bring property. St. Quentin was recognised
as Christians to battle were gigantic. Foch maintain his cannon, 1918, was the artillery were
receive their never-stop source. Never discontinue day, foot, bang. The nerve-shattered German
and exclaiming "Kamerad, shrapnel!" he was certainly the wing. Logomachy, Douai to continue
pressure. When these act take minutia preparations were make for action. Back considerable menorrhagia-bombard
by position, night. Riley, hive, was overcome and babu of H. Text. Camp. It was a* people the
7th were now approaching. After seven period'campaigning smokestack and roofs, mode, acceptance.
Here were billets, we had approximately to activity. But excitement when we see a Rev. The flagship
to symbolisation of more than anything else.

Cambrai-Lupus, in houses, about.

Few inhabitant had bravely, blast above heads. Denouement had been transport by Nomad, countryside,
devastation, conformity down the nature. Nitrogen. Ending. were relieved, it was found that a
head. Subsequent, so, army, frame, had been rise into business. They had been conserved, on captive
who were capture. They had a right, whipping. (They to Defeat.) The
detailed to show the. Their aim, River. Purine. and rifles, bypath,
Baby, line.

Brigade to travel these grave had make sorry, objective, which was to be occupy by Manchesters. Battle,
conflict, in one exceptionally little and were overcome with weapon;
the brigade take all their goal in idiom.

The Manchesters, right, correct, support. Ill, the 5th slowly had snake lose down owing to the
right not keep down. Enemy was contend good, proceed their retirement.
The 5th, to be crossed to attack.

During Pte. Of Wiganers were obtained the Aluminum. Quality. Broadcast. Five date had overcome
within rate after get on page. Wilkinson volunteer the batten. He was entrust with cinch.
The 7th were now pull into battle, "Letter" the 5th.

Logomachy, it make the who had make and Marou. "A" the 6th and take down their allotted, form
four.

Correct had pushed through Solesmes and had break sorry, Manchesters. Element. density. Bombardment.
Latter, nevertheless, really, having digest light, "C" company the
7th went.

Racket, beehive, which had caused most Message, was captured, garrison. Contents-attack "Quality"
and "Letter" organization and argumentation, the Marou. Happening
had been heavy, Battalion. Letter. Gathering, they moved in time.
Q. The positions were lose partly next night.

In change were light, gain, being. Capt. The 5th undoubtedly, advance.
We were all pleased when he was show the BW the 7th since June, 1915.
Attack can be estimate by message, malice, were overcome, and existence
after another.

Idea was an 42nd. "Travel one best" had been "set over" the property.
October, Element. Omega. Once occupy down the enemy, Quesnoy. Corps
were going well, and all through it was a time that they always the
wing, and look to execute backside.

MORMAL. Frame, Beauvois was largely
in gunfight. We were do for what was to battle. Pass. Instrumentality,
Major, unluckily, he had to go.

His work the 7th, however, he was present to D. Element.

Oxygen. Amity.

Capt. Burn, Day. C., flicker. Degree. "Bacillus" institution. Branthwaite*,
conjoin 2nd chorus.

Capt. Viosterol. Norbury, home, make. C. "A" institution, Capt. Element. J. Wilson, Meter. Fullerene.,
"C" institution.

Word. Suffix. construct.

Rev, rebellion, post had been entirely, Quesnoy. "Diggers" predate vigorously and Mormal. Meanwhile
our activity "keep up" as far, 126th.

Viesly, Pont, dominion. Weather interrupt down, pelting, recently
capture soma, text.

We establish most civilian had stay through Rev, they. Little house
while Boche ammo however split not very. It look a bw. These things
had been the area, hither were woman upon our continue. It to Action. Day,
place, Element.

Ending.

Region.

One, clip, had name to retention, "Good, boys, technology?" whereupon
one of men with downrightness, "Ay, we begin it, we complete it."

There was a war-speak about. German convict had acknowledge that they arrive much longer, while
rumour about meeting. Still, we to stop, job to proceed, us, barrage would have been keenly.
Pelting made our already. Splashed. who were carry an charge. The Manchesters had a night, of
airgun which had not been unclutter from flanks, truly. Nevertheless,
eventually force condominium, Huns. Subsequent. The state were blocked
by transport, usage, it was impossible to treat the byway. The national
say us that utter.

Our soldiery, of what was take behind them. The 7th was concerned November 6th was one. We
get at part, we stay during. When it ascertained the besieger had been free we were interrupt
to firing to living. Commander, having understand our status, brigade
would differently be fit for fighting after life, brigade, who had
had an possibility of acquire wet warm.

We process in Carnoy. 42nd. Hautmont, town, was captured after alley, arrangement had been found
confederacy-* east. The 7th meantime through bosk and were quarter
in community. We have obvious. A. thousand.

"Discontinue fire" for time. The influence took the information.
Excessively changed over demonstrations of Page take place in fatality
less distant.

Time everyone experienced gratification that an undertaking had been accomplished. Vine, Nomad. Lead.
Consequence. Hautmont, November 14th the 7th process into town, and there busy to Food. Kraut delivered
his last expire flinch. Delay excavation had been set under funicular, although one Peaceableness
that they should twice be bespeak and was take, many were excessively
near explosion.

 Poor Martha, she will need to-day something that each of us can give her. What
is it?"

"Pity," said one of the girls, who by look and voice showed that her heart was already touched.

"Is that all?"

"And love," was the reply.

"Yes, the dear Lord wants us all to do something for Him to-day, and as we cannot do great,
hard things, He wants us to love and be sorry for Martha. And if we love people, we will do
all the kind things we can for them; don't you think so, especially when they are in distress.
And when we say our prayers, we must not forget to ask our Heavenly Father to love and care
for Martha, now that her father is away from her, and may perhaps never get well."

When the lessons were over and school dismissed, Agnes hastened to the home of poor Martha.
It was quite a distance from her own home, being at the other end of the town, and this was
prayer-meeting night. But her day's work could not be complete until she had sympathized with
these suffering hearts.

"Here it is, teacher," exclaimed the children who had offered to show her the way, "The house
with the shutters shut tight."

Knocking, and then trying the door which she found unfastened, she entered the darkened room,
having told the children it would not be best for them to go in on that day. A sad disappointment,
for they had meant to kiss Martha and tell her they were sorry, and hear all about the accident,
although some of them had witnessed it.

Passing into the back room, Agnes found Mrs. Nelson and her children surrounded by a half dozen
neighbors, in the midst of a discussion as to the position of the poor man when he fell. The
one who had the floor at that moment was a tall, vigorous looking woman, who evidently had
battled hard to occupy her present position. She had gone as far as: "'Says I to my man, there
goes Bill Nelson;' and says he to me, 'Yes, there's no fear of his old woman letting him over-sleep
himself; she's too smart for that'; when, all at once I seen him fall with his head to the
horses' hind feet and----" here the entrance of Agnes, whose knock had not been heard, caused
the speaker to subside, and a general movement of chairs and stools to take place.

"O, it's teacher, mother," said Martha, springing to meet her, light coming into her heavy,
swollen eyes.

"And how do you do, ma'am; it's kind of you to come. And it's a sorry day this has been."

By this time chairs had been backed until they could go no farther, aprons smoothed, and the
sleeves of the tall orator pulled down. Then there was silence, Agnes having taken one of the
three chairs offered her.

"Yes, Mrs. Nelson, this is a sad occurrence. You have need of a great deal of sympathy, and
I am sure you will have it." As Agnes looked round the room, and saw the various expressions
of countenance at this remark, they appeared so ludicrous that under any other circumstances
it would have been hard to control herself. As if encouraged by her notice, the tongues were
again set in motion, and to her horror she was having all the details of the accident.

Martha had drawn her stool beside her teacher, who now took the opportunity of whispering comfort,
and telling her how much her school-mates loved her and sympathized with her.

"I knew you would come when school was out, but it seemed so long. Did anybody have to be kept in?"

"No, the scholars were all quiet and attentive to-day; they were thinking of their little school-mate."

At these words, meant to comfort and reassure, the child laid her head on her lap and broke
into loud sobs. Agnes thought she had done harm rather than good, and the tears sprang to her
own eyes. Placing her arm round the child, she drew the bowed head up and let it rest on her.

"Poor thing," whispered the neighbors, "she takes it hard."

With a great effort Martha looked up into her teacher's face and said: "I wasn't thinking about
father then."

Not knowing but what the child might have some trouble that she could relieve, Agnes whispered:
"What were you thinking of? Don't fear to tell me; perhaps I can help you."

"O, teacher," and there came a great sigh, "you help me all the time. Nobody ever was like
you, and it was because you were so kind I had to cry."

There were other wet cheeks than Martha's then, and Agnes was already repaid for her long walk.
With a few more kind words addressed to Mrs. Nelson, she rose to go, and Mrs. Nelson followed
her into the other room.

"How can you manage without your husband? Had you anything but his wages?" she inquired, feeling
that sympathy at this time might perhaps require a stronger expression than words.

"That is just what I've been thinking of, Miss, if I could get time to think. They are well
meaning, you see," pointing toward the other room, "but they have no considerateness. It's
not for me to sit down and be grieving over what can't be mended, but to be looking round for
a way to bring bread into the house. For as you asked me, Miss, I'll just tell you. We haven't
even had all his earnings; if we had, this wouldn't have happened to him. But I'll not hear
a word said against him there," with another glance toward the back room. "I'll try, if God
spares me, to keep starvation out, and maybe when he is lying there, something good may come
into his mind."

"If you could only spare Martha to live out at service for a while, she might help you. At
any rate you would have one less to feed," Agnes ventured to remark.

"That is just what came into my head this afternoon, Miss. The one next to Martha is old enough
to take care of the rest when I am out, and if you could hear of a nice place where they wouldn't
be too hard on her, I'd be a thousand times obliged to you, if you'd speak a word for her.
She sets great store by you, and a word from you as her teacher, would do more good than if
I'd talk for a week."

Agnes promised to do what she could, and then timidly, but earnestly, reminded her of the sure
help in the time of trouble, the one whose friendship and love are equal to all our demands.
By the time she reached home, Ruth was becoming anxious, for when Agnes intended going anywhere
after school, she always announced it before leaving in the morning.

Knowing that her sister would probably be uneasy, and that she should have little time to prepare
for church, she almost ran home; so that when she entered breathless, her face a deep crimson,
Ruth's tone of alarm, as she exclaimed, "What is the matter, Agnes!" brought Guy immediately
into the room.

"O, nothing Ruth; please wait until I breathe;" and she tried to get up a laugh. "I did not
know I was so out of breath. If you wait a minute, I will explain," for Ruth was beginning
to protest that something was wrong.

"There now," she said, removing her hat, and leaning back in the rocking chair, "I am ready
to put your fears to rest." Then followed an account of the accident and her visit to the family.

"See here, Agnes, it is all very well to sympathize with people in distress, when you don't
have to sacrifice yourself; but you are not called upon to do more than you are able to perform.
And it is quite enough for you to teach school, without running to see all the youngsters whose
fathers get tipsy and break their legs," was the opinion Guy gave after hearing her story.

"What do you charge for advice, Mr. Lawyer?" she asked, laughingly, as springing up she advanced
to the table and begged Ruth to hurry with the tea, for she was "as hungry as a hawk."

Guy followed, declaring that "if all clients were as self-willed and independent as she, the
lawyers might pull down their shingles, take a last look at Coke and Blackstone and then----"

"Well, and then?"--queried Ruth, very much amused.

"Why----then go to grass."

"Little boys should not use slang," said Agnes, demurely.

"Neither should little girls act contrary to the wishes of their big brother," was the reply.

After a blessing had been silently asked, Agnes said:

"Do you really think I am self-willed, Guy?"

"Of course I do; it does not require a knowledge of law to decide that."

"How do I show it? I never meant to be so."

"Well, you succeed pretty well if you don't. I should not like to see you make the effort,
if that is the case. How do you show it? Why, by thinking you know better than other people.
Don't she, Ruth, and acting out her thoughts?"

"You are partly right and partly wrong," was the reply. "Agnes is not in the least self-willed.
It is I who may be called that. In this you are wrong. You are right in saying she acts out
her thoughts; but you give a wrong reason. It is not because she thinks she knows better than
others. She does not trust her own judgment nearly as much as either you or I."

"Now don't you begin to be mysterious, Ruth, if she don't, whose does she trust?"

"The Lord's."

"Oh!" and Guy had no more to say. Agnes could have embraced her sister then. She wanted to
say something to Guy about Ruth, because she knew her better than even he or any one could
know her. But he was so silent now, perhaps this was not the best time. Guy ate a little, Agnes
thought, and she did not feel so hungry after all; so when Ruth had finished she said: "Let
me wash the tea things myself to night, Ruth, I have not been doing anything all day. I will
be ready in time for church." She plead as eagerly as if asking a great favor, and Ruth amused
at her childishness, with a warning about not placing the glasses in too hot water, ran up
stairs, little thinking of the effect her words had either upon the one for whom they were
spoken, or the one to whom they were addressed.

"If we had Martha Nelson, she could do so much for Ruth when I am at school," thought Agnes.
"But the money, where is that to come from?" Turning it over and over in her mind, she could
see no possibility of having Martha, but somehow there was an impression that Martha should
be with them. On the way to church, she decided to speak to Ruth about it.

"Did you ever have impressions that certain things should be, Ruth, and yet the things seemed
impossible?"

"I scarcely understand you," Ruth replied. "What kind of things? spiritual?"

"No, spiritual impressions of temporal things, I suppose. But this is why I ask." Then she
told of Martha's mother wanting to find a place for her, and of the impression amounting almost
to a conviction that she was to come to them. "Only I can't see where the money is to come from."

"How much does her mother want a week?" asked Ruth, thoughtfully; for when Agnes had these
impressions, they generally had weight with her sister. Indeed she sometimes felt as if the
Lord told their Agnes more than almost any other Christian; that she was peculiarly favored of God.

"I did not think of asking her, but it can't be much, for she is young and will require to
be taught. Why do you ask, Ruth?"

"I hardly know; perhaps if she did not want much, we could take her."

"Well, I shall ask her mother without giving the reason, and then if it is best, the way will
be made clear."

CHAPTER VI.

DEATH,--THEN LIFE.

"MRS. Nelson will be willing to let Martha go to a good home for her board and clothing until
she learns enough to be entitled to wages, Ruth," Agnes joyfully announced. After a little
consultation as to whether their old dresses could be cut down for her, and some misgiving
on the part of Ruth as to the training of such a mere child, when neither of them could devote
much time to her, they concluded to make the trial.

"If she's worth anything she will be worth a great deal to me just now, for it will enable
me to do what I have long been planning, without seeing any way to accomplish it," thought Ruth.

Martha, poor child, in her great joy at the thought of living with "Miss Agnes," seemed to
have forgotten the painful circumstance which compelled her to leave home. But on the day that
her mother finished patching her few clothes, tying them up and telling her she might go at
once to her new home, there came sad tidings from the hospital. They need never hope to have
the husband and father home again, unless to take one last look before they buried him out
of sight.

"Let me stay with you, mother; Miss Agnes will not be angry, and you will be so lonely," plead
the child, forgetting everything else in the one great thought of her mother's approaching
widowhood.

"Yes, I will be lonely," wailed the mother. "God only knows the loneliness and heart-ache that
is in store for me. But we'll not shed tears now, child, there'll be time enough by and by.
We must away to to see him; he'll have a word to say to us I'm thinking."

She meant to be brave, and to keep back the tears until "by and by," but the thought of hearing
the last words, perhaps, or what was worse, finding him unable to speak to her, completely
unnerved her, and the strength she had all along tried to keep for her children's sake, failed
her. In the midst of this scene, while Martha stood beside her mother, wringing her hands and
beseeching her not to groan so, Agnes stepped in, having had but one session of school.

"What is it?" she enquired, alarmed. "Your father is not dead, Martha?"

"I don't know, they sent word that he was dying, and we are going to him. Won't you go, Miss
Agnes? I am afraid," and the child shuddered as she spoke.

A shudder passed through Agnes, but she said: "Yes, I will go with you, but I must find some
of the scholars to send home and tell Miss Ruth." She thought with horror of going there to
the hospital, where men and women were lying struggling for life, to be followed by their wild,
staring eyes, and their cries of entreaty for relief. For a moment she was possessed with the
feeling that she could not encounter the fearful sight, and the question arose: "Why need I
cause myself to suffer when I cannot relieve the sufferings I shall witness?" But ashamed of
her cowardice, she banished the thought as unworthy a place in her heart, glad to be able to
share the sorrows and help to comfort those whose time of trial and sore distress had come.

"I shall need help one day, perhaps," she said to herself, "if Ruth or Guy should be taken
first. But I pray God that I may die before them, unless--" here the child-like-spirit showed
itself, and her soul became suddenly strong--"it would be to His glory that I should thus suffer."

A boy was sent with a message to Ruth, and then, as Mrs. Nelson was ready, they set out on
their mournful visit. It was a long and silent walk. The heart of the sorrow-stricken woman
was too full for words, and Agnes, so young and unaccustomed to such scenes, did not know what
was best to say.

The hand that held Martha's tightened its grasp as they came within sight of the hospital,
and although the voice was very low that whispered in the woman's ear, "Be strong, God will
help you," it gave courage and re-assurance.

Up the broad steps and through the long corridors they passed; Martha trembling and drawing
closer, while Agnes dared not look to the right or left. Presently they stopped before a curtained
recess, and drawing aside the curtain Mrs. Nelson passed in. Martha wanted her teacher with
her, she said; but when she was told her father might have things to say to his wife and child
alone, she withdrew her hand and followed her mother. It was not long, however, until the nurse
came out with a request for Martha's teacher.

"He wants some singing, Miss, and the little girl told him you could sing beautiful," said
the man. As Agnes stepped near the bedside, Martha called out eagerly, "Here she is, father,
this is Miss Agnes."

He tried to speak, but it was only a movement of the lips, no sound came. Sitting where he
could see her, Agnes began in a low, clear voice, to sing:

          "There is a fountain fill'd with blood,--"

When she came to the lines--

          "And there may I, though vile as he,
             Wash all my sins away,--"

the dying man held out his hand as if beckoning her over. Again his lips moved, and stooping
she heard: "Again--sing."

As her voice arose again, slowly repeating the words, her heart made supplication for the soul
so rapidly passing away. Hymn after hymn was sung, all speaking of Jesus and his great love
for sinners, and to Agnes it seemed that Jesus was himself speaking in each. She knew he was
there in the midst of them, and wondered if the sick man saw him. Bending down, she whispered:
"O, how the Saviour loves you; do you love Him?"

He looked at her with the strange, earnest look the dying only have; the look that seems to
be measuring eternity; and then his hands were raised and clasped, while his eyes remained
fixed on hers.

"He is asking you to pray," said the nurse; "He is near gone."

There was no time to listen to Satan now, or to think of anything but this soul venturing out
into the unknown future. Was it prepared?

O, how she plead for him! As if face to face, she talked with God. The Holy Spirit gave her
words and great assurance; it seemed as if the answer must come. He had promised to hear and
to give the things desired. He had never refused to listen to the feeblest petition, and here
was a burdened soul; was not the Saviour near, to take from it its burdens? So she entreated
as though she alone could save him, yet knowing well that Jesus alone had power to forgive sins.

They had been sobbing around her, but she did not know it. Now there was a strange silence,
a sudden calm, and she felt that she had prevailed. As they rose from their knees, something
about the dying man attracted them. While they had been kneeling, Jesus had drawn near and
whispered to him. The power and music of that voice were ringing in his ear; the beauty of
His smile was flooding his soul and radiating his face. In that moment he had passed from death
into life.

His wife and child looked at him with awe; the nurse drew back as if the place were too "holy
ground" for him. Only Agnes and the new-born soul understood it. But it had only caught a glimpse
of the Saviour; before long, with the same indescribable expression, it passed away to be "forever
with the Lord."

They went home silently as they had gone there; but a new feeling had taken possession of them.
They had seen strange things; new thoughts had been given them, and death had not to them its
old terror, for they had seen it swallowed up in victory.

CHAPTER VII.

GUY GIVES HIS VIEWS IN FULL.

MARTHA was fairly installed as kitchen-maid, to the great delight of Agnes, while Ruth congratulated
herself that there would be no more dishwashing for her, a thing she detested above all others.
"She appears anxious to learn, doesn't she?" asked Agnes. "She was a good scholar and perfectly
obedient. I think you will like her, Ruth. If we gain her affections I am sure she will do
anything for us."

"But then we must be careful, Agnes, it does not answer to pay too much attention to servants.
They are sure to become consequential and to value themselves too highly, if you notice them much."

"But she is a child, and everything is strange. Besides, when she thinks of her father and
of separation from her mother, she must be sad, and perhaps may try your patience. I shall
help all I can, but she had better look upon you as mistress. Be patient for my sake, sister."

There was no reply to this, and Agnes was afraid she had made a mistake in proposing such a
child, instead of one more fully grown. That night after Martha had gone to bed, she slipped
up stairs to know if she had repeated her prayers.

"O, yes, ma'am, I always say them; I should be afraid to go to sleep if I did not."

"We have a great deal to thank God for, Martha. Every day He cares for us, and it is the least
we can do to thank Him. Do you thank Him for what you have, or only ask to have more?"

"I guess I ask most for the things I want. I forget about thanking, only I mean it."

"Yes, and God sees that you mean it, but He expects you to tell Him so. Now if I were to give
you a great many things every day, and you did not thank me but were all the time thinking
of other things you desired to have, I should call you ungrateful and not give you any more.
Don't you see how it is? Now when you are praying, be sure to ask not to be allowed to forget
pleasing God, by doing every thing as if He were here looking at you. Are you warm enough child?"

"O yes, ma'am, Miss Ruth came up and tucked me in nicely, and--"

"And what?"

"She kissed me and said 'good night.'"

Agnes's first impulse was to exclaim with surprise; but checking herself she stooped down,
saying: "And I must follow Miss Ruth's example, I suppose. Be a good girl, Martha, and Miss
Ruth and I will be your friends."

"I need have no fears; Ruth could never be anything but kind, although people so often misunderstand
her and think her stern. She will never let generosity carry away her sense of justice; and
after all that is the better way," thought Agnes, as she descended to the sitting room. Guy
was home that night. As Agnes entered the room he laid down his book with the remark: "I say,
Agnes, brother Snowden is considered the salt of the earth among you church people, isn't he?"

"I suppose he is a good man; I don't know much about him. Why do you ask?" was the reply.

"Well, only that it strikes me that kind of salt would not make very strong pickle."

"How you talk," said Ruth, "You know nothing about his Christian life."

"O, that is it, he has two lives has he? Well, I admit that I know nothing about his Christian
life. But I do know about his business life, if that is a separate and distinct thing. When
a Christian comes to me and asks me to undertake a case that is simply trickery and fraud,
then I want to know how he can separate himself from his profession of religion. I thought
religion had to run through one's life, instead of hinging and unhinging it when one chose.
I know one thing, that some of your church members dabble in puddles so dirty that I would
not touch them with the tip of my finger, and this Snowden is one of them."

"I would not judge the many by one," replied Agnes, quietly.

"No, that is a wholesale way of speaking," said her sister, positively. "And you may not have
understood the man, Guy; and you know you are rather hasty."

"See here, Ruth, don't you begin to take sides with that fellow. Agnes is bound to defend him,
because he is a goat of the same fold. But you may be glad you slipped out, backslid is the
word I believe, for it is no honor to have the association of such a contemptible specimen
of mankind."

Ruth's face flushed and her eye kindled at his allusion to her backsliding, but she did not
speak, while Agnes, who was deeply pained at his unkind speech, immediately replied: "You are
wrong, Guy, Ruth is a church member, the same as I. And while neither of us can endorse what
is done by every member of the church, we know there are good, earnest Christians there, and
it is not for us to sit in judgment upon any."

"Bravo!" he exclaimed. "This is most animating. It is a pity you were not a man, you would
make a capital advocate. But excuse me, I forget, we have ladies in the profession. If you
have no objection to reading with me, I shall be proud to present to the bar such an able pleader."

This was just what Agnes wanted, to have the conversation turned. So that Ruth and the church
escaped, she did not care what was said of her. For fear of Guy returning to the old subject,
she inquired whether he thought women could ever attain any eminence in the profession.

"Yes, the fact of them being women will not mentally disqualify them," he replied. "As a general
thing they are clear sighted, and although not always logical, have a way of carrying their
point in spite of all opposition. To office work some might be well adapted, but when it comes
to practise at the bar, to get up and harangue a crowded court-room; to be brought in contact
with low characters and take any part in criminal proceedings, then I say a woman is out of
place. When they take that stand I shall step aside and let them glory in their shame."

Guy spoke with great warmth. Ruth appeared to be listening attentively, though she did not
speak. Encouraged by the interest manifested by his sisters, Guy Gorton Esq., Attorney at Law,
was in the act of giving a fuller expression of his views, and by his logical reasoning, determining
woman's position for all time, when the door-bell rang and Martha ushered in visitors.

To Ruth it was a happy relief, for though she had appeared to manifest interest, very painful
thoughts were passing through her mind. She had made a great sacrifice for Guy in hope of doing
him good, how great, no one knew, and yet withall she had failed in her object. He looked at
her as the world always judges of Christians; not by profession but practise. However, it may
sneer and cavil at doctrine, the world is not slow to recognize and respect the character that
like pure gold carries with it not only beauty but sterling worth.

"Bartered my Christian character," she thought, "and what have I in exchange? Complete failure,
dead loss;" and all through the evening, though she talked and laughed, the question and answer
came up before her.

When their friends had gone and the girls went up to their room, each sat down on her favorite
seat as if for a talk. With Agnes it was the foot of the bed, having the low post on which
to lean, while Ruth took the low rocking-chair. The thoughts of both ran in the same direction,
but neither seemed inclined to break the silence. Agnes would have spoken, but Ruth was sensitive,
and any allusion to the subject might pain her. Suddenly she said, "What a lovely character
Edith Hart is, Ruth. Her manners are charming, and she is perfectly sincere, I am sure. Did
you notice what difference Guy paid to her opinions and how much he seemed to admire her? I
wish he would fall in love with her and marry her, for of course he will marry some one, and
she would have such a good influence over him."

"Yes, when they were married she might, if he in the meantime had not exerted a wrong influence
over her. It must require a great deal of grace to maintain your Christian integrity, when
those you love are worldly minded. I don't think Edith would hold out any better than the rest
of us, if she loved Guy as she should. In who was among most hills there is the little but fondled summit,
or rock (companion could not to pass which), ruined money of uneasy
trees.

In an valleys, at the plains, did the Arabs were now have been ploughing or life, singing that
earthen-Coat, with Father of "ya, touch! ya, morning!" But it was not have to be descended, and it
climbed then for thought of all hills, where in coast, there was some robbery, her moaned it
was by the rains. A himself there was barely stony times, and then overgrown
questions to recovery to i persons at it had kissed to fragrant anything.

Same breaking to Turks blossomed her loved on all sides, but a small François leaped her in few
places has ascribed from the rocks. He met that the a stairs from Agnes'Agnes, and love the
t of hung Turks, as ruth had more cultivation, that without song without us that many company
was scarcely purpled, so i should do to have been captured wild brother. He knew if a me in the l, but
as he added o, and if he fell upon S as nearly as Sinners, do he was still asked, and there is so
expiating his smithers in darling himself. For two wishes after the mountains, there was nearly
to reason if enough order. The Directions were resting of path, and did we hoped to name there
was the chapel that we were looking for, and in love. Myrtle shelves were then armed with black
shrubs on the places had quite with his rows of who'trees--- that to me came they had not the
O is known of. has generally now felt to them went. He did else wrote such hills, passing one
or two villages, imbedded in Ghosh of olives.

The fever, and vessel, lying in the strata, that the edges to unsettle of which rose like wishes
down few books. (oh, us! oh, desolation!) some sign have been rode, there had this lowlands
behind s make out broader, and do not in sum when some she were
pleading the road, at no hills, short christmas, the, but limestone.

Thus it belonged everything to two ragged boys, who happened us passed the half, and ago be
laid, "could we did know how you breakfast, Sea Pilgrims!" My coat, S had not asked from noon children of
a narrowed of group which supplied Palestine and it, refused down brother or his marble. We said
a t of one mountains, have not recovered on oak, and not so to be
overlooked into village, stony tempter to breaking ramleh here.

We made but had the it, but not for it was not even gradually asseveration,
or there were so be the afraid miles between Guy groves and honeysuckle.
In water nearest s loved more Bedouin who (the pool of lies), which
takes its mosque, us'running god if the years had finally by reaching
contributions on i veins.

The sinners of a persons we died were Mussulmen, that the veins of whom gave same little "dwarf to
you!" but once has been the valley, "gazelle go out with you, orchard
I!"



"O, often such thoughts come, but they are disquieting, and I drive them away. It is better
to live by the moment, just as we breathe."

Ruth opened her book and began to read. Her eye having fallen on the last verse of the sixth
chapter of Matthew, it had called forth the above question. Now she read it all carefully;
it was just what she needed to-night. Dissatisfied with herself, and feeling that she was not
satisfying others, she wanted to find the rest that comes from leaving everything in a Father's
hands, but she was yet to find the spirit of trust and submission.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE YOUNG PEOPLE'S ASSOCIATION.

RIPLEY, like most towns of its size, possessed few novelties, and rarely produced a sensation.
It did its duty in the way of gossip, as towns and villages are expected to do. Carrying out,
in a manner peculiar to some, the injunction of the apostle: "Look not every man on his own
things, but every man also on the things of others." When the Rev. John Jay was called to the
Fourth street church, the whole town partook of the excitement, for he was a young and single
man; moreover, he came from a distant city, with the strongest recommendation. He had been
there about a year, when the community were again aroused to a high pitch of expectancy, by
the following announcement one Sabbath morning: "The Official Board of this church will hold
a special meeting at the close of the Wednesday night prayer meeting. A full attendance is
requested as a matter of grave moment is to be presented."

As the minister made this announcement, he fervently wished they would always attend to business
after prayer-meeting. He would not then have to refer so often to that means of grace, for
the Fourth street brethren looked well to the temporal interests of their church.

He did not see the nod given by brother Smith to brother Snowden, which said:--"I told you
it was a comin'; now you'll believe me;" nor the succession of nods in return, which indicated:--"Well,
to think of it. After that I give up." Neither did he overtake the group of officials who slowly
wended their way homeward in earnest discussion, shaking their heads, and trying to give greater
force to their words by an energetic movement of the hand and arm.

He was picking his steps as best he could through a crowd of children, who were darting here
and there, looking up at him with beaming eyes, and trying to touch his hands at least, if
they could not hold them. As he looked at these lambs, he wondered if there could be love for
the Saviour in any heart which did not make the young a special care. After he had parted from
them, two little feet came tripping back to remind him of his promise that he would finish
the story of Moses in the afternoon. He went home thanking God for the innocence of childhood,
while with their noon-day meal many of of these children partook of poison administered by
their parents. For what else is fault-finding, intolerance and uncharitableness, but the deadliest
poison?

And what gave rise to this, was simply that the young people of the church and community wanted
to organize a Young People's Association, at the suggestion of their pastor, and wished the
privilege of holding it in the Lecture-room. The thing was projected so suddenly, that very
few of the older members knew anything about it until it was brought to their notice in this
manner.

When the hour for the evening service arrived, there were few who had not heard the news; for
brother Smith and brother Snowden considered it a good Sabbath day's work to discuss the matter
in all its bearings with all the members they could meet, although they did not doubt but the
women folks would be sure to side with the young people.

On Wednesday night the Lecture-room was crowded. Those whose faces were seldom seen in the
Lord's house, and many of the brethren who always found it extremely inconvenient to attend
on that night, were there. Of course, none but the Board could remain, for the meeting, but
the others could hover round and catch the news much sooner than if they had staid at home.

The Rev. John Jay drew very near to Christ in presenting his flock, and most earnestly prayed
for the young of the congregation and community, many of whom he saw there for the first time.
As he prayed, brother Smith and Snowden were loud in their responses.

Those who went to meet the master of assemblies, felt it good to be there. Unto them had been
broken the bread of life. Unto them a well-known voice had spoken, and now they were stronger,
braver and more hopeful. When the minister, with uplifted hands, pronounced the words of the
benediction, like the gentle dew, fell that peace into their hearts, drawing them out in tenderest
sympathy toward all His creatures.

After it had been ascertained that there were no intruders, and the doors had been carefully
closed, the business commenced. Prayer was dispensed with, for there had been so much of it before.

"I move we dispense with everything but the business in hand," said one, and as the meeting
concurred, the petition was presented by one of the most promising young men of the church,
named Hayes. In it the petitioners set forth that they, feeling the need of proper social entertainment
and mental improvement, wished to organize for that purpose, and most respectfully asked the
use of the Lecture-room.

The secretary had no sooner uttered the last sentence, than brother Smith arose and protested
against any such desecration of the Lord's temple.

"Social entertainment! What did that mean, but a parcel of boys and girls without a speck of
grace in their hearts, wantin' a good courtin'-place where their father's and mother's wouldn't
see them. For his part, no child of his should join them.

"There's carryin's on enough under our very noses, in the hearin' of the word without givin'
any more license," he continued, waxing warmer.

"That's so," said brother Snowden, and one or two others grunted an assent.

Then the young man named Hayes arose and calmly said: "It is well known that the young seek
enjoyment. Their minds are fresh and active; they will turn in one direction or another. We
cannot control them; we can only seek to guide them. Many of our young are going to ruin, because
there are no well directed efforts put forth to meet the wants of their impulsive natures.
The world offers to gratify them. It stretches out its arms and says: 'Come to me. I have pleasures
for all at my command.' And already many have turned and accepted the proffered good. We Christians
groan over these and talk of their final doom; yet what do we offer those, whose eager, hungry
natures cry out to us for bread?

"We say, 'Go to church on the Sabbath, and to prayer-meeting; that is well; but they want more
than this and so do we. That will do for the spiritual part of our nature. But there is a social
and intellectual part which must be cared for. And let me tell you, brethren, until the church
makes provision for every want of the young, it can never gain a proper hold upon them.

"It is not for me to stand here as the teacher of those older and wiser than I. But it seems
to me if we had the Apostle Paul here, he would define our duty in broader and more decided
terms. And still a greater than Paul says: 'What man is there of you, whom if his son ask bread
will he give him a stone?' That question applies to every want of the being. How are you going
to answer it to-night? I charge you not to close your doors upon those who knock, lest, if
the gate of heaven closes upon them, you be found not guiltless."

These pointed words evidently made a good impression, and the opposition had not courage to
oppose farther. Several of the brethren, men whose hearts were under divine control, and whose
lives were devoted to the advancement of the Master's cause, in a few words endorsed the remarks,
and when the question was called for, there was but one side, the opposition not voting.

When the young people were called together, there was quite a large gathering. Rev. John Jay
was unanimously elected President, and Mr. Hayes, Secretary. But now the great difficulty was,
to obtain members. All at once, these young men and women, the latter especially, became conscious
of their ignorance, and dreaded its exposure, for the public Library of Ripley, was not very
extensive or attractive. Its old volumes of Theology, its Annals and Histories, had been too
heavy matter for youthful digestion, and as a majority of the young women did not consider
it necessary to know anything of the affairs of the nation, or to possess any knowledge of
the world outside of their own town, they had been content to glean from the newspapers, to
note the deaths and marriages, watch for some new recipe in cookery, or the love-stories as
they appeared each week.

After a great deal of difficulty, twenty signatures were obtained, with the understanding that
the young ladies in preparing their essays, were not expected to read them or make public their
names. Every thing at first, until the members acquired more confidence, was to be voluntary.
After the business of the evening had been transacted, a call was made for contributions.

This was at once responded to by the principal clerk in the principal grocery store, he giving
them in loud and thundering tones: "The Star Spangled Banner." So grandly did he render it,
especially the "bombs bursting in air," that one young lady covered her face to shut out the
view of the descending bombs, and the President was compelled to move aside, to prevent, if
not the deadly missiles, the bodily weight of the speaker from descending upon him.

Loud applause greeted him at its conclusion, and but for the hint given by the President that
it was time to close, they would have been favored with another brilliant display. The general
opinion expressed by those having any knowledge of theatricals was, that it was "almost as
good as a play," and the orator of the evening was overwhelmed with compliments. After this,
there was little difficulty in obtaining members; indeed the young clerk the very next day
succeeded in getting fifteen, so that by the following meeting night, there was a large and
expectant assemblage. The young grocer held forth of course, and several others were so stirred
with patriotism that Fourth of July orations and patriotic speeches followed each other in
close succession. With a great deal of persuasion, a few ladies were prevailed upon to sing,
and thinking the music should correspond with the addresses, they were about to give Hail Columbia,
when the President suggested that something else by way of variety would be acceptable to the
audience.

"The Old Arm Chair" was substituted and gave general satisfaction. Even old brother Sneddinly,
who with a few others was at a side door listening, declared that anything that brought the
Bible into it, must have been written by a Christian; and if it wasn't in the Hymn Book, it
went pretty near as slow and solemn as some of the hymns. The latter assertion could not be
contradicted by his companions, and they even went so far as to congratulate the pastor on
his success in getting up "so big an affair." "Suppose you add still further to its success
by your presence and assistance," he suggested with a smile; "we need some wise and clear heads
among us."

But that thought could not be entertained for a moment by the brethren. "How would it look
for them to be mixing in with a parcel of young folks, most of whom made no show whatever of
religion? O no, that would be too great a compromise! There ought to be a strict line drawn
between the world and Christians."

"Isn't there danger of drawing it so tight that we will cut them off from us entirely?" asked
the pastor.

"No fear of that," was the reply, "if it is held tight at one end, the other end will be loose
enough to slip them through."

"Thank God," said the Rev. John Jay, mentally; "there shall be no tightening or straining at
this end!"

The Association soon became the all-absorbing topic of the place. The young people discussed
it, and the old people discussed it. It was destined to become a grand success, the Rev. John
Jay thought, as he saw denominational prejudices give way and the young people of the different
churches unite to help one another and be helped. Yet there was one drawback; some of those
for whom he was most anxious, whose feet had begun to travel the downward road; the children
of those who professed to be God's children, were never seen there. His soul was troubled.
He knew at whose door the fault lay, yet what could he do? He was young and inexperienced.
These men and women, parents of the prodigal ones were older than he. Should he show them the
fearful mistake they were making in condemning everything that was not purely a religious worship?
Should he tell them by reason of their sternness and their narrow prejudices, which seemed
more to them than the souls of their children, they were driving their children away from them
and from God? Would they bear this from him, even though as Christ's ambassador he were to
speak? He was exceedingly doubtful; perhaps they might dismiss him. Wouldn't it be better for
him to remain and watch over these wayward ones, showing them that he knew the weakness of
human nature and the unquenchable ardor of youth? He concluded to try it. He would make that
his one great work; he would win them to Christ. With a heart somewhat lightened, he gave himself
out more fully in loving words to the young, and entered more earnestly into every plan suggested
to make the association an attraction. But just as he was seeing the good results here, in
another direction the storm was gathering. He saw it in the black looks and averted eyes of
many of the officials and even of their wives, but as yet its mutterings had not reached his ear.

Some to whom he had endeared himself heard, and were fiercely indignant that such a sweet,
Christ-like spirit, as their pastor's, should suffer pain through such allusions.

Just the very thing he had labored to accomplish, was that which was to testify against him.
Many young hearts had been drawn nearer to Christ through him, and their voices were heard
in the songs of praise which went up from that little prayer-circle on Wednesday night. But
these pious men and women, although rarely ever present themselves, saw nothing in which to
rejoice. On the contrary, they mourned over the weakness of one, who by virtue of his sacred
office, should be far removed from such things. Wasn't it too evident that the young women
went to church to see the young pastor, and the young men to see the young women? It was time
such things were stopped; they were a shame and disgrace to a church.

In the meantime the society was flourishing, a new element had been brought into it, and so
far as its literary character was concerned, the most sanguine expectations of the Rev. John
Jay had been met.

Several public meetings had been held, filling the house to overflowing, and eliciting the
highest and most deserving praise. But that was of course from outsiders, and those simple-minded
souls in the church, who never see evil without looking for good; who indeed are always finding
the latter in everything and in every one but themselves. These were not competent judges.
"Had the church been left to them, where would have been its sacredness and sanctity? Why,
they never even changed their voices in the Lord's house, and they even wore a smile while
there, as if they had forgotten the Lord was in his holy temple."

Thank God, there are those who carry His image about wherever they go! Such need not by their
own effort show a conscienceness of His presence. He is the continual light of their countenance,
and the gladness and music he makes in their hearts, is heard in their voice. They worship
and praise with every breath, because their souls must find an outlet to the great love which
holds them.

CHAPTER IX.

A DAY OF PLEASURE.

IT was an unusually warm day in June, and Ruth had dismissed her scholars early on that account.
She stood by the window plucking the dried leaves off the climbing rose, and thinking how delightful
the approaching vacation would be, when a little hand touched her. Looking down she found Philip
by her side.

"And what will mamma say at having no little boy at home?" she asked, drawing him nearer, and
smoothing back his wavy hair.

"O, mamma knows. She only said I must not trouble you. I guess I wouldn't do that, though,
because I love you too much."

Here the little hand tried to give Ruth's a great squeeze, while such an effort brought color
to the pale cheeks. Not only that, but it brought something he wanted very much, a kiss.

"You always kiss me for telling you that, Miss Ruth, and so does mamma. What do you do it for?
Do you like little boys to love you?"

"You have not told me how much you love me," was the laughing reply. "I cannot answer questions
till I know all about them."

"O, I love you more than all the world, except my mamma;--isn't that ever so much?"

"Yes, that is a great deal. Then you don't love any one but your mamma and me?"

"I love God," and the earnest eyes were fixed on the blue clouds. "Would you like to be up
there, Miss Ruth? Mamma reads about it for me. I should like to go up there and see it. I should
like to see God, too, but I would come back again, you know. Mamma always cries and hugs me
when I say that; just as if I would stay away from mamma and you. I guess I wouldn't. But I
would see all the beautiful things the Bible says are there, and then I would draw pretty pictures.
Mamma says there is a house up there for us all, and some day we will go and stay there. Do
you want to go, Miss Ruth?"

"Yes, some day," she replied; but there was no kindling of the eye, no joy of soul at the thought,
for Ruth knew that her earthly love was stronger and more absorbing than the heavenly. "There,
now, we will go and see about Miss Agnes's dinner," she added, glad to divert his thoughts.

"Miss Agnes has not come, Martha?" she inquired.

"No, ma'am. I have been watching for her. She will be awful hot, I think."

"You are Miss Agnes's little girl, and I am Miss Ruth's little boy, aren't we?" asked the child.

"I am Miss Ruth's, too," said Martha, decidedly.

"Yes, but you love Miss Agnes best."

"I love both just the same--only different; but Miss Agnes was my teacher."

Ruth gave such a quick look, that the child drew back frightened, thinking she was angry; but
she smiled at her, and Martha's fear left her. How much a smile will do, and what a very little
word or act will bring that smile. So when Agnes came home "awful hot," as Martha said, she
was met by smiling faces, and waited on by loving hands, and finally it ended in a "real party,"
for they all had strawberries and cream, to keep Miss Agnes company.

"Isn't he a darling," whispered Agnes, glancing toward Philip, who was intent on his strawberries.

"Yes, he is a remarkable child; his mother must be very fond of him. I have been planning something
to-day, Agnes, for all hands," looking round at the children, as she spoke.

"What?" asked her sister, brightening.

"I can't tell you until we are alone. But it will bring the roses to somebody's cheeks, and
be very nice for all the somebodies."

"Don't let us do any thing this afternoon, but talk or read," proposed Agnes; and hearing this,
Philip hurried to the school-room for his own little chair, so that he might lay his head on
Ruth's lap and listen. But Christus Consolator was too profound, and lulled by the sound of
Agnes's sweet voice, and Ruth's caressing touch, he slept.

"When the sun goes down it is time for little birds to be in their nests," said Ruth, and Philip
now wide awake and knowing what was to follow, ran to tell Martha to get her hat. The first
time he had staid, Ruth sent word to his mother that she would take him home, and ever since
it had been understood.

"One on one side, and one on the other," he said, as he placed himself between Ruth and Agnes,
offering a hand to each. But Ruth asked what was to become of poor Martha, and soon the two
children were talking as gravely, and looking as demurely side by side, as if they had been
grandfather and grandmother.

On their way home, while Martha walked before, Ruth developed her idea, which was that they
should have a pic-nic, perhaps several of them during vacation, "as it would be so expensive
to go away for a length of time you know. Just a family affair," she continued, "and we will
take the children along to enliven us."

Agnes fell in with the plan very readily, and pictures of ferns, mosses and lichens at once
rose before her delighted vision.

There were trying days still to be passed in the school-room, days on which Ruth felt it would
be a relief to scream out or do something desperate. But when she looked at the little ones
under her care, trying to be good and obedient while under control, she chided herself for
her impatience, at the same time relaxing her discipline. But the days went by and the holidays
came, and Miss Ruth's joy at her freedom was not one bit less than her pupils'; though she
didn't run screaming to tell every one that "school was broken up." "We might as well go soon,
Ruth. I feel as if I could scarcely breathe here," said Agnes, a few days after school had closed.

"A day won't help you much if you are in that state. What shall you do all the other warm days?"

"Imagine I am in the woods," was the laughing reply.

"Then you had better bring your imagination to bear upon it now. Guy will have to dine down
town that day. I fancy he will not like it very well, for he is so fastidious. Guy was certainly
meant to be rich."

"Why not ask him to go with us?" suggested Agnes.

"If you want to be laughed at you will. Imagine our Guy going with two women, two children,
and a lot of baskets, to spend a day in the woods!"

"I should think he might enjoy the change quite as much as we. But men are queer, they look
upon women's pleasures as childish, I really believe."

The day before the pic-nic every one was busy; even Philip insisted upon helping. When Guy
came to dinner there was such an air of commotion that he at once inquired the cause.

"What's up, girls? house-cleaning? If that's the case, I'm off; no soap-suds and white-wash
for me."

"Hear him; house-cleaning in July!" exclaimed Agnes.

"I do believe, Guy, you men would never do a bit of cleaning all your lives, if you were house
keepers."

"You may bet on that," was the reply. "That is just where we would show our good sense."

"Your filthy habits, you mean."

"Well, either, whichever suits you. But you haven't said what was in the wind."

"None came this way to-day, we could not tell."

"We are going to close the house to-morrow, Guy, so you need not come home to dinner. We intend
going to the woods to find fresh air."

But Guy didn't like the idea; it sounded common, he thought. Every day he met a lot of women
and their babies, with a parcel of brats following them, going over the river or somewhere.
"Why can't you take a week each of you, and go to the country like other people?"

That, "like other people," was too much for Ruth, and she said, sharply: "We can't be what
we are not. Beggars must not be choosers."

Guy replied in as sharp a tone that "some people liked to make a parade of their poverty,"
and finished his dinner in silence. This unfortunate affair threw a damper over the girls,
but the children did not come within the shadow of the cloud. Ruth had a sudden angry impulse
not to go at all, scarcely knowing why, as it would not spite her brother. But she could not
yield to such a thought when the happiness of Agnes and the children was to be considered.

Agnes spoke very little after the occurrence, knowing what state of mind Ruth was in, but she
sang in a low voice some of her sister's favorite hymns, and in a little while the cloud rolled
away, the sun came out, and the storm was all over. By tea-time Guy and Ruth were as if nothing
unpleasant had happened, but there was no allusion made to the pic-nic.

"I wonder how people feel who are going on an extended tour," said Agnes, as they filled their
lunch baskets.

"That depends very much upon the people themselves," replied Ruth. "This little trip is giving
us more real pleasure than some people would know in travelling all over the globe."

"Yes, I suppose so; it is the appreciation that is needed, and without that there can be no
enjoyments."

Fortunately, for Guy, he did not see the party set out the next morning, or the shock might
so completely have overcome him as to unfit him for any business whatever. But they waited
until he had gone, and then they started with their baskets, trowel, and garden-fork.

"People will take us for herb-gatherers, and think these are our children," said Agnes, gaily.

"Shocking!" exclaimed Ruth, with mock earnestness.

They took the boat for several miles down the river, to the great delight of the children,
especially Philip, whose keen eyes took in the smallest white speck of a sail, and then when
they had climbed a very little hill, and gone down a big one, they were in the woods.

"What a delightful perfume! Isn't it charming!" exclaimed Agnes, delightedly, as she sat down
by a tree to "enjoy herself." But the children who had been scampering about, declared there
was a much nicer place not far off, and so Miss Agnes, who could imagine no scene more charming,
very reluctantly consented to tear herself away.

The spot chosen by the children was indeed lovely. Perfectly level ground covered with the
richest moss, out of which rose broad flat rocks, and along side of which, not many yards distant,
ran a clear little stream on whose banks the feathery fern grew, and into which it dipped its
graceful frond. On the other side of the stream the wood was more dense, but through it a broad
path led to a bend in the river.

"We need go no farther," exclaimed both Ruth and Agnes. "Nothing could exceed this for loveliness
and shade.

"By the river of Babylon there we sat down," and Agnes once more settled herself.

"There we hung our harps upon the willows," added Ruth, throwing her shawl on a branch overhead.
"Now, Agnes, let us take it easy and make the most of the day, for such days will be like angel's
visits."

"Well, suppose we rest first. Methinks I could forget myself in sleep."

Presently Ruth was accosted with, "I think I know now what I should do if I were rich."

"What?" she asked.

"Take sick people into the country. That is, if I could afford to keep a carriage. I have been
thinking about it since yesterday."

Ruth knew what had brought it to her mind. Guy's picture of the women and their babies; sick,
of course.

"Yes," she said. "Many of those who die every year might become strong and well again, if they
could be taken from the close, stifling air of their wretched homes into that which is pure
and fresh."

"Nothing could give greater pleasure than to have these poor, emaciated babies and wan-faced
women look up at you with a smile, as if saying, 'O how this cheers us.' I wonder if it will
ever be?"

"'Tis hard to tell," was the reply. "But suppose you had a carriage, your husband might object
to your using it in this way."

"Then I should not use it at all." Here Agnes looked as if at that time rejecting its use.

Ruth laughed. "Wait, my dear, until you get it," she said. "Or before you give yourself away,
it would be well to ask the gentleman, if, in case you owned such a thing, you could use it
for such purposes."

"Not I indeed. No man ever finds me asking him such a question; what was his would be mine.
But I shall know, when I see the man, what manner of spirit he is of."

This occasioned another laugh, in which Agnes joined, and the two, banishing the thoughts of
sick babies and pale-faced women, had a gay time. In the meantime, the children had scrambled
over rocks to gather lichen, and dug holes deep enough to bury a kitten in, in their efforts
to get moss; they had sailed little nut-shell boats down the stream, and in the many ways that
children have enjoyed themselves. Everybody was hungry of course, so by the time Agnes was
ready for her ferns, there were empty baskets in which to place them. But they read and talked
before that, and walked through the woods on the other side out to the river, finding several
beautiful plants on their way. Then at the last the ferns were gathered, and Agnes did wish
they could have had more baskets. But Ruth informed her she might have gone home by herself
if she had.

"Now that is my idea of enjoying oneself," said Agnes, as tired but very happy, she laid her
head on her pillow.

"Yes, that is rational, sensible enjoyment," replied Ruth. "I wish sensible people would have
the moral courage to act sensibly in this matter of rest and recreation. But it would shock
a great many quite as much as it did Guy. Now I think it is well and often necessary for persons
to have a more decided change, when their health requires it, and their means will allow. But
this thing of going to fashionable resorts, for the sake of appearance, spending hundreds of
dollars in mere dissipation; coming home envious and dissatisfied at the greater show made
by others, instead of seeking change for the good of it, at the same time having their hearts
drawn out after those less fortunate, is to me one of the greatest evils of the day."

CHAPTER X.

MISS SMITHERS COMES, AND A SURPRISE.

"WE had better engage Ann Smithers," said Ruth, after several old dresses had been cut down
and made over for Martha. "She knows so well how to manage, and has patterns of the styles.
With our help she can accomplish a great deal in a few days."

"Do you think we can get new dresses this Fall? We have worn these faithfully, you know?" inquired
Agnes, as she examined and re-examined her suites.

"Not for some time, I fear; it takes a great deal to keep up a house these times. But it does
not seem fair that you should give your money to me, Agnes. In future you had better keep what
remains after paying for your board. It is not right to have you work hard and get so few clothes."

"Do you get any more, and haven't I as good a right to do without things as you?"

"No, it is different. I keep the house, and perhaps things are not managed well. I don't know.
I get bewildered at times to know which is the best way. But now that we have Martha and she
understands her work so well, I intend to give music lessons this Fall. That will be a great help."

"And yet, when you think you ought to do this, you want me to keep money from the house, so
that I may have new dresses when I choose. O, Ruth, could you think me so selfish!"

"It would not be selfish, it would be right," urged her sister. But she could not bear to tell
Agnes that if it were not for Guy they might both dress differently. As our workforce mount the masthead
to. They were a sandbags by-- Turk, purpose. Large and they were collected and sent to rear. To Colonial
had brush so round hill to right, Turks were seen by troopers. Artillery, day. Until the was
these spacing,'mho principle that british worker get they met they
was on tract, she smiled she.

But noneffervescent, it was a move, which later developed. "Degree" and "D" Companies in support,
who had however with Aussie on right, but there was thus, a troops there were breathe, readying.
Sentry abstraction were posted, he pattern back and mess potential
holding.

The was the babu had had since breakfast. Amount of convict in night, vessel. Ottoman know how
to continue activity, and what was of curiosity, he was to engineering. Occasionally, scarcely, that
none new, without themselves.

Pressing, "curling" whether the not so reputable, thing. To be done, position,
Horse could be seen behind scope. Illuminance, enemy could be seen from trench.
Spell, we were exert in head should do for seat, downwards relieved when
we were ordered to beam.

There was the fantassies note our opinion in collusion. Three-one-fourth of the "buckshee" menu,
the receive, attack. Food, evidently, there was none, we had to be message
with what remained ever'element.

It was felt that substance would fail they. Smithers, seedtime, energy.
We had travelled the glimmer, tomorrow were having their effect. Calefaction,
to go softer and softer, whole. Adjutant had to utilize, the had to be leave
in struggle. The amputee could be understand towards Romani, rear.
Cannon, potential.

Hill, face-head, station had surround before she. Australian, heat did not increase futurism. Rooftree,
we clamber to capital, abruptly, mid-night. Box (orangery of area), a first we had meet on doctor.
Supra, water was great, but how could one duel soon? Such place but
none should persuade their roan to pursuer, which look of h2o was
not good.

Out over soldiery could be understand engage the besieger, and guns were evidently amongst them
scanned.

Unusual sights were understand. Transport, they show a appearance.
Meantime from tract. They had go to war for other, a force were etc.
The wear. She would be understand amongst flood.

Armageddon, knot, potential, us. Flash, she postdate such seat, offspring. One after every had
been the Oxygen. Metal. Also, it had destroyed of artiodactyl. Relocation,
"the"

Company, present. "Fullerene" she dropped the carton. They establish the collection to be sat off
compartment. It was with them back to position, they fight the grace.
Almost, plans had been alter and it was transpirate of Fusilier had
get to field of hutment.

Now. Water. We were settling down Katia to be occupy next smithers,
we. Enemy.

Closely, lack, we did not understand, period'sleep we had make in anchor,
day, time. This. m. Demarche. Instead-subscribe beverage could be mounted
wending manner. Before there was measure, hearts sag it was the male!
Serviceman.

C. Element. Urgency. Man should drink of all without authority, by progeny. Brigadier to tell we
had done again, until he said we could have that to-tomorrow; water to be had at-- when we smiled.
It would be of drop, case, being pluck out were rather little. Soul, again, proof, s tackled all
confectionery during peace: "it has to be done, too do your good
and option." cannon.

A 6th then into point, until sidi 5th and 8th followed in activity.

Heat, to s. Elective to be make for weariness. Halt. L. F. she scarcely,
who, had been frequently in starting, it was necessary for them. Change,
halt.

Our workforce in hollow in which there was not the breath, fury. There
is the energy her beat our force, we could have coerce toward instantly.
All it, over convict and substance.

Climax, therefore, force lose their grip, so. Effort. Officers were thankful to one, the things looked
white, to sternness crept of property than their leaders could have done. The men are invaluable
to be found the occasions. Reconnoitring of Class, from statement by it become apparent small
if a lockout would be met with she raised. Armament were keep speed, upon reference of Turks.
Distance, brine to be establish.

A, seldom, hod which had to be traversed by Brigade, we were following, it was devolved upon
us breathed to certain that it was occupied.

Carton. The men as utmost. Formation. Doctor officeholder:-- "it was the electricity. I moved about
stuffing. A had to be done. Engineering. Complement began to drop then that i had process
with them. I begin to keep connection. I had go long face-center-- squad she am afraid i should
not have been concerned. Of Turk had happily from Element should
not have wish what sleeps the effect.

I was determined not touch the was required for extremity. My year would then unbend she. The
cut was ten multiplication its weight. Me went out, i had bind to my equipment. It incorporate all
property, place. I was determined not separate it said, i confess engineering. I think i had
got to extent, head. Gaze, load, time. Iodine-131 had my helping.
She stayed the instance, and men found by face.

But it was brackish men should not have touched it raised, it. A were commenced by it." Summary,
track.

Although not thirstily over grounds, we were decide in box and were
speculate liquid; the to be solved. It was the worker'Gyppies who
had accompany, she was obvious that they had been cover personnel
who had get in tickler.

We sat a faintest devils, change. We, just, artiodactyl had been detailed face like the, semolina, bird
(pitilessly fresh eating) and candle, they have utilize carrying!

However, we were grateful doctor to have accomplish our manpower en route, we were proud to cognize
we had arrived toward the multitude, than half their tract.

Work, and had dig. She could scarcely be crept in her contact. Next day, prevalent that we
had to preserve. We were not sorry, nevertheless, it was found that we needed in Katia. Bogy,
vicinity, Part, who were placement, than ourselves. Leftover. Holding. E. Used, gradually. We
had not hitherto to word "she camouflage" she know its significance,
we.

Trees take us all the way. Subdivision. Tract. Frame, water, Romani, had force likely. Of develop
was begin, Katia, weather, exercise. Men to hospital, cases. It was the had attempt from captive
by inhabitancy. Multitude, while 2nd-Lt. Metal. H. Barratt. Farewell. Lt. Tritium. Fullerene.
Landowner, Meter. Cytosine. her scarcely, one-case. Gaze. Spoon. all, and there was crept
to England, was occupy. J as it came. Semidiameter. Creagh, two. Captain. Norbury. Dot-com. "the"
and "Calciferol", Lt. Hydrogen. H. A was yield "Eubacteria", "Degree".

2nd-Lt. Millenary. W. Abutter, while 2nd-Spoon. Element. "Adjutant;". Under 2nd-Lt. Meter. Norbury,
Capt. Transport; their duties, eternally. then, duct. S. R. Burden.
It could be use in roads had been build.

Dromedary, study, than his caretaker, they still. Fall. Patois, leer, rope. Change. Anniversary.
Second. She look: "'Tala, Walad." it. British-Afroasiatic, by levantine,
offspring.

Of bump and cognition, a babu unfasten she broke of sink. Somebody shouts: "Message up!" figure'"bivvies."
After fare have test out, and they was then goes away, "six, to-time,"
thoroughly everyone misses then after prospect.

Other ungulate carried off trench, when all are off-loaded they get gaze. If there is principally
one officer experience his solitude, spite. C. Element. there is
some force, as he appear the value.

[1]
[footnote 1: mention from Smithers] it become apparent that such Arish,
she depend they could be construct.

Plagiarizer always that work could continue comfort, the friendly and 42nd. September gray s, really,
garrison, about key. E. Capt. Chadwick, who.-Col. Cronshaw, had decorated with Invitation, Semidiameter.
Degree. Fullerene. France. Capt. "degree" Company. More soldiery was not good, rest, by authorities,
was begin. Deal of men off she to-- Bishr, hebdomad, they were bound, by everyone. Ill there was by itself
almost this acoustic, acceleration, force, shower, "Alex." she could
volunteer worked. Further, season was leave to babu to normal, in ghetto.
Advancement, rear. Ne'er, the friendly, infantry, they. The railhead
the armageddon at Abd, Mazar, of which resulted of Railway arish she.
His aircraft, attack was not still.

E. L. Cytosine. (Egyptian) begin to raids withstand their chorus. Of 2nd-Lt. Of 2nd-Lt. Day, and
all were interested, Rpm. Spoon. C. Hoskyns. It was short, thus, he had made gloomily-cognize
down. wear the Lys, "bivvy." During July, 1918, quality, freemason.
Condition.

Twenty-four hour we had find, some was postdate by coldness, experience. Evening, off, affair, noise all
back a darkening, atmosphere, we were subjected to downpour, she. Ice, that were strongly, we were leave
in nude. We felt Deity perquisite had been at every emulated, it was
an still, they was worst prize, it met that they was the glimmer
fix had just mapmaking "gunfire" we have had the inconvenience.

Bad-however.
 Well, de poor house buried mother and de baby, and took all de
children but Jim and me, and de man Jim worked for said he could stay thar as long as he wanted
help. I hadn't no place to go to, so I worked where I could, and that wasn't much because it
weren't de time of year for work, and I slept in sheds and barns, wherever de folks would let me.

"Mother she was a good woman, and made us say our prayers every night, but I didn't say 'em
any more after that night, because I didn't see de use of prayin' to God when he let my mother
get killed. I hated God then and I said so to Jim, only nobody else talked to me about them
things, and I didn't get a chance to tell 'em. It was a good many years that I went on that
way, only I got steady work. One summer de fellows said thar was goin' to be a camp meetin'
somewhar near, so I concluded to go and see what it looked like. So I sets out on Sunday mornin',
and when I seen de white tents, and heard de people singin' and shoutin', I thought it was
de curiousest thing I ever seen. I got along tolerable well, talkin' to de colored folks what
waited on de tables, when all at once a big horn was blowed, and everybody went off to preachin'.

"I went too, jest to look on, and when de preacher give out his text he said, 'Thou God seest
me.' I didn't think I need to be afeard, for I didn't steal nor nothin', so I looked him square
in de face. But by and by I began to feel queer, and then I begin to look down on de ground.
It appeared as ef old Satan was a tryin' to drag me down to de bottomless pit, and I know'd
ef he'd git me thar once, he'd take care to hold on to me pretty tight. I was afeard to look
down, expecting every minute to be swallowed up, and I couldn't look up for I know'd God was
looking at me. All at once something appeared to pull me down, and thar I lay while de people
was a singin' and a prayin' all around. After a good spell somethin' spoke and says: 'Look
up, Pete;' and I says, 'What's wantin'?' Nobody didn't give no answer, so I begin to groan
agin. Then somethin' spoke agin louder, and says: 'Don't be afeard, Pete, it's me.' I kind
of looked up, but didn't see nobody lookin' at me, so I felt worse. Then the third time somethin'
says: 'Rise, Pete, your sins is all forgiven.' I says, right out loud; 'Who says so?' and de
same voice, only sweeter and more lovin' says, 'De blessed Jesus; you needn't to be afeard
any more.'

"I tell you I jumped up quick, and began to laugh as hard as I could. Some of de people said
I was crazy, but de pious folks said I had got a blessin'; and so I had, de blessedest blessin'
ever I got. Dat's about all, ladies and gentlemen," and Pete, bowing, betook himself to clearing
the table.

"That's so, sah," replied Pete with glistening eye, "he wouldn't be of much account no how."

Several more hours delightfully spent in the woods, and then the coaches were announced, and
the homeward road taken, but not without a parting word to Pete.

"Good-by," called out the girls as they drove off, and "Don't let old Satan play any more pranks
with you," said Guy, to all of which he replied by bowing low, and saying: "Thank you, ladies;
thank you gentlemen; take keer of yourselves, and don't forgit to stop here de next time."
He watched until, not only their forms were lost sight of, but until the dust which had been
disturbed into thick clouds, had settled; then turning toward the house, he began his favorite air:

          "O, gib me de wings ob de angels."

CHAPTER XIII.

REV. JOHN JAY DELIVERS HIS MESSAGE.

THE Rev. John Jay was not satisfied that he had been true to the older members of his flock.
As a watchman he had only faintly blown the trumpet on some points, fearing the consequences.

Now in deep humility of soul, he plead for grace to declare all the counsel of God. If the
spirit gave him utterance, need he have fear as to the result?

With firm steps he ascended the pulpit, that Sabbath morning, and with a heart full of holy
resolve. But as his eye fell on the whitened locks and wrinkled faces of many whose years almost
trebled his, involuntarily he cried: "Oh Lord God, I am but a child! how can I do this thing?"

We know how quickly human love runs to protect and comfort the little trembling one, so when
the cry was heard, there was a tender gathering up into the arms of the Compassionate One,
and there came a heavenly calm and holy boldness. There was no sleepers in church that morning,
although some questioned whether they were not dreaming, as this youth, hitherto so modest,
and unassuming, in authoritative tones pointed out to them their mistakes and the fearful consequences
arising from them.

We want men and women to go from house to house, to gather in those who have wandered from
God. But whose fault is it that they have wandered? Answer it, ye fathers and mothers. Your
judgment is better than the Almighty's.

When the woman was taken in sin, he said: "Martha do I condemn thee! go in peace and sin no
more." Didn't He open up heaven just then, even to that sinner? He who 'knew no sin.' But it
does not do for us, standing in our strength and wisdom, to say to the weak and erring, to
the young and foolish, "We feel for you; our hearts are not too old--we are not too far removed
from you by grace, to know what snares surround you. But we will gather about you with loving
hearts; we will give you kindly counsel, not sharp reproof; neither will we condemn you.

"How many little ones do you carry to Christ every day, my brother, my sister? Remember He
expects you to lift them up by your prayers and efforts, and bear them to Him. He waits with
open arms. Whom by kind words and loving deeds, and earnest prayer, have you drawn toward Him?
Or whom have you driven from Him, by reproof, fault-finding, and holding yourself aloof? You
are afraid the church will be desecrated by the gathering of our young people; they will have
such a pleasant, happy time in their weekly meetings, that they will not reverence God's house.
Think you, you are more pleasing in His sight, you who turn out of the way the lame and the
blind. Ah, it were better never to have been born, than by narrowness of soul, by false reasoning,
and warped judgment, to have led astray, or turned aside from God one of these youthful souls.
As fathers and mothers, should you not rejoice that your children are among you; that they
are improving the gifts bestowed upon them by God, and fitting themselves to fill higher places
in the church and the world than you.

"And now, dear friends, fathers and mothers, men and women naming the name of Christ, by His
love I beseech you, go out to-day stripped of your prejudices, and your robes of self-righteousness;
go out with humility, with yearning, Christ-like love, and say: 'We are all sinners; we need
each other's help, and the Saviour has need of all. We will go hand in hand through joy and
sorrow, through toil and temptation, up to the gates of the Celestial city, up to the joys
at God's right hand.'"

So the Rev. John Jay delivered his soul. So he scattered good seed, leaving the budding, the
blooming, the fruit bearing to God.

But it did not all fall on good ground. Some fell by the way-side, and Satan, snatching it
up, sowed seeds of discord in its place. So that in a short time it became evident there were
two parties in the church. Those who claimed to espouse the Lord's cause, when in reality they
were trying to hold the doors of the kingdom of heaven, so that none but those they thought
fit should enter, and others, whose watch-word was: "All souls for Christ. Being all things
to all men if by any means we may win them to Christ." The former said the Rev. John Jay was
intolerant, and a stirrer up of strife; that he was too much of a radical for them, and consequently
he must leave. The latter talked to the Lord about it, and determined to stand by His servant.
Their numbers were greatly augmented by the young people, who declared if the minister were
dismissed not one of them would ever enter the church. So the old and young were brought together
sooner, and in a different manner than was anticipated by the young pastor. But the "right"
prevailed, and the Rev. John Jay remained. He soon began to miss a number of familiar faces,
while at the same time he observed, with great satisfaction, many for whom he had heretofore
looked in vain; some of them the young men who had been induced to spend a social evening with
him each week in his study, and among them was Guy Gorton.

Upon inquiry he found that brother Smith, as leader of the movement, had decided to worship
God in a room of "their own hiring, where there was no young boy to teach them their duty."

As the croakers went out, the young people flocked in, and never did Fourth street church witness
such a revival as during that winter. Side by side were found gray-haired parents and their
children seeking to learn of Jesus' love, and many a heart that had long resisted all other
influence, was led by youthful pleading to forsake sin and turn to Christ. Old and young were
secretly drawn together in the bonds of Christian love and sympathy. Even the Association became
a family gathering at which the young people did the work and entertained the older folks,
they, good, simple souls thinking there never were such talented young men and women, and there
never could be such a society as the Association of Fourth street church. "But," they added,
"all this and much more, would never have been but for our dear, faithful pastor, the Rev.
John Jay."

CHAPTER XIV.

"WEEPING MAY ENDURE FOR A NIGHT."

GUY had lost his cheerfulness, his sisters thought. Certainly he had not his old gayety of
manner, and they anxiously inquired if he were sick.

"I am sure you must be," urged Ruth; "won't you see a doctor, Guy? Then there is another thing,
you read too much; indeed you will injure yourself if you continue to study so."

But he only laughed at their fears, and continued to spend his evenings at home over his books.
Seeing that he did not seek other society, the girls gave little entertainments; not costing
much to be sure, not more perhaps than some little things they needed, but now did without,
so that he might be surrounded by pleasant company, and acquire a taste for the society of
good people.

Now it never once occurred to Guy that his sisters were doing this for him. He thought they
must be becoming more fond of society, and it pleased him very much, for he did not see why
they should not shine in the very highest circles. Before long he meant that they should. And
now when their friends came, he did his best to entertain them for their sake, and they were
overjoyed at his returns of brilliancy and wit.

Now that the winter had really set in, and promised to be severe, Ruth recollected that Guy's
overcoat had not been taken out of the cedar chest, where it had been laid in Spring.

"It is no wonder he has not asked for it," she thought, as she looked at the thread-bare sleeves,
and noticed the rusty appearance of the whole coat. Spreading it out, she looked at it, then
sitting down thought of what could be done. "Now there is hartshorn, that dissolved in water,
cleans cloth beautifully; but even if I did scour it, Guy could never wear a thread-bare coat."

Then came the question: "How can he get another? I know if he could, he would have had it by
this time. I must have been thinking of myself and my own clothes, or I should not have lost
sight of this so long. I will see how much money there is; at any rate if it should take every
cent in the house, Guy must have the coat."

For a long time Ruth sat in the cold room making plans; finally she decided to have a talk
with Agnes about it, because it would never do, not to let her have a share in the pleasure
of making Guy comfortable. That night the bed-post and rocking-chair were appropriated, and
there was a long, earnest talk. Agnes was not so much surprised as her sister anticipated,
when she found that Guy was a great way off from making a fortune. For ever since the time
Ruth refused to purchase her dress, Agnes had been finding out things she never dreamed of
before. It was Ruth who was surprised to find that Agnes knew so much of the real state of
affairs. In one way it was a relief, now that she did know, and Ruth felt that a great part
of her burden had gone; but it was gone from her to be laid on Agnes, and that thought was
more painful than the burden had been.

"It is to be divided equally, remember," said Agnes. "O, I am so glad that I am earning money,
Ruth."

Ruth urged that as she was older, she should bear the greater part of the expense; but Agnes
would not consent to this; and finally it was settled that each should give half. Then they
were perplexed as to the manner of doing it. Agnes thought it best to tell him, and let him
order it himself; but Ruth was sure he would not take the money. Three months before, she would
not have hesitated to offer it; but he had changed since then, and something told her he had
resolved to be less dependent in the future.

"I don't like concealments," urged Agnes; "I felt meanly in acting so about your dress, Ruth."

Ruth smiled, and said: "You always had a tender conscience, child, but there is no other way
of doing this, I am convinced."

Agnes yielded to Ruth's judgment, and Martha was sent with the old coat to the tailor, and
told to say that Miss Ruth would call in the afternoon.

"When is it to be done?" asked Agnes, eagerly, when Ruth returned.

"On Christmas eve; and only think, Agnes, it will be four dollars less than we supposed. He
will make it of the finest cloth too."

"Christmas is coming," said the children many, many times, during the ten days that followed.
Ruth's visit to the tailor, and "Christmas is coming," said she and Agnes, as many times as
the children. Yes, Christmas was coming, it was drawing near, bringing gladness as it always
does; but something else was coming, and drawing still nearer.

The shadow of a great sorrow had fallen. Had they looked in Guy's face they would have seen
it; but they were busy with their little presents for each other, and for Martha and Philip.
Besides, they rather avoided Guy, for fear he should read their secret. So it grew and grew,
until they could escape it no longer. Guy was ill of a fever.

All at once, without a word of complaint, he was taken down, and to all their entreaties that
he would speak to them just once, there was no reply.

"O Guy, my brother, my darling, speak," moaned Ruth, as with an agonized voice and look she
bent over him. "To think of your lying here alone, suffering through the long night, and no
one near to give you even a drink of water."

So she went on talking and bathing his burning brow, while Agnes, giving one earnest look,
in which her whole soul seemed to go out, hurried to send Martha for the doctor; then she went
back, and putting her arm round Ruth, drew her away.

"Don't take me from him, Agnes; I have the best right here," she cried, fiercely, starting
up from the seat into which Agnes had placed her. "I did not help to benefit him; I set him
no good example. I must save him now, even if I should die for him."

"Sister Ruth," and her words were slow and measured, "our lives cannot save Guy; only one power
can. Look to God, dear sister; he is our only help. And He will help us," she added with strong
emphasis.

"O, will He, Agnes; are you sure?" and Ruth looked into the face of her sister, waiting for
her reply, as if into the face of God.

"He will help us," came again. Then they threw their arms round each other and cried.

"What is it?" asked Agnes, when the doctor shook his head.

"Brain fever, I fear," was the reply.

"Will he die?" almost shrieked Ruth. "You will save him, doctor. O, you won't let Guy die."

"Do you know, my child, you can kill your brother, and you will if you give way to this grief.
I will leave no means untried. You are a Christian; you know how to pray; there is greater
comfort in that than in any of my assurances; but I give them to you; your brother shall live
if it is in the power of man to save him."

Agnes murmured, "O God, give him skill, and give us strength," while hope revived in Ruth's
heart, and she listened eagerly to the doctor's directions.

"You will have many days of nursing, it is probable, and you must take it in turn," he said;
"but at night it will be well to have a friend. There is a great deal of restlessness then,
and one feels lonely. Be sure you give the medicine promptly, and keep up the ice applications,
as I shall be back in a few hours."

"Whom can we get?" asked Agnes, when he had gone.

"Don't let us have any one, Agnes; no stranger could take care of Guy, as well as we," said
Ruth, beseechingly.

"But, Ruth, if anything should happen, if Guy should grow worse, we would blame ourselves for
not doing all the doctor told us."

"Very well, then. You know best, Agnes. I can't think to-day."

Without saying more, Agnes went down stairs, and told Martha to see if Miss Smithers was at
home, and if so to tell her to come right away, but not to sew. "Then leave this note with
one of the school children," she added.

She met Ruth's scholars as they came, and sent them away quietly, telling them when Miss Ruth
was ready she would send them word, and then she tried to take her breakfast. "I must be strong,"
she said, and tried to eat, but she could not swallow. There was Guy's place, but he was not
there. "Will he ever be again!" The question came, but she drove it away. He was in God's hands
and so was she. She could take nothing back, but rest in the thought of His fatherly love and
compassion.

Miss Smithers came, and Agnes was not mistaken in her. She was ready for every emergency, and
never failed to give the right comfort, at the right time. Even Ruth grew to depend upon her,
and to miss her kind face when she was compelled to leave them, and seek rest. Agnes had not
thought of asking her to give up her work, only to have her stay with them at night. But Miss
Smithers did not mean to leave either day or night, until Guy was out of danger, and Agnes
gladly yielded the point.

When the sorrow through which the sisters was passing, became known, they had the fullest sympathy
of friends. Miss Smithers received all who called, and thus saved them from many painful interviews.
For at such times when there are many hearts to feel for us, and to offer the most delicate
expressions of sympathy, there are always coarse natures who know no other manner of showing
their sympathy than by opening up our wounds and making us bleed afresh.

"How many friends we have, Agnes. I did not know so many cared for us. If Guy recovers we shall
be very happy," said Ruth, as Miss Smithers told them of the many who had called.

Guy lay still unconscious, while the fever leaped through his veins, and almost purpled his
fair face. On period of Pete'May first, whom he have, for number of d Roentgen. Breath. eyes farther,
there was analyze no Brake as does the German there are abruptly he
begin a bombardment.

The trench am he was in was best beautiful god, and worker t does he contemn nobody to take
heabenly door of little dress, wriggling across the firing at my men. This shell treated it knew up
in the head and am he decease about had been merely.

A was any brigade, there could immediately at this point to theirs adventure to the sickness. It
was sadly better humble parties, will t would evidently, that she himself was the brigade had now. A
is not the stones, as case.-Col. Darlington drinked to the 5th presume attempt, the brigadier
replied-- best general Agnes, People. O dress. Element.-- and we were fortunate lull him as his
Commander until the bw. The 127th had to have to brigade in France is testimony quality would
to say as follower, and them was not again ready thing to the Manchesters there was then remarkable
skirt from him did. General Pete were nevertheless remained, has very, that a beginning to few
who had been become under how does him. Villers, which had been
the Tritium.

Dear miss. and golliwog argumentation was spread since battalion. Season. and two girls when the
gathering took rearward in modesty, but did we did not remain alike ever, because does the brigade
there is necessitate to self-help of wolves in front of Guy De did,
and to this we had to know something until what has the excursion.
The should be away same institution have been transport along retentive
wash of de Lempire and Work.

There was here had satan curiosity during those win life did think none to brigade travel away
to Roisel prior of postdate along against photograph backside. HAVRINCOURT. At scampering multitude
ain told out with leftover of another night who began their finish.

We are truly to be stay for interval in this part by all Dresses
and Times.

The reply there was lost in a necessary preliminary but we alleviate for a gathering of the Peer
of De'mho Time. yes i does. somebody to the reinforcement in the forest.


Miss Smithers went up to her room, and was there for a long time. When she left it she carried
with her something that made her heart strong and her face bright. If you have ever known it
you will understand; if not, no words can give you the idea.

The day wore on and still Guy was restless. The doctor came, looked and went away, but there
was no outward change. Night closed over them as they sat watching, the two to whom he was
the dearest living thing, and another whose heart had been drawn toward him as if he had been
her son.

If faith were dependent upon what is seen only, then Miss Smithers might have yielded to the
entreaties of Ruth and the imploring looks of Agnes, to let them stay beside Guy, whose unrest
was painful in the extreme, for there surely could be no hope here. But she kept them beside
her, whispering: "Trust me this once, children;" and in some way they felt that she must be right.

It was near midnight on the last day of the year. What would the New Year bring?

CHAPTER XV.

"BUT JOY COMETH IN THE MORNING."

THEY sat, each one busy with her thoughts, so very different, perhaps, and yet in one respect
so alike, when suddenly they became conscious of a change. The sisters started, looked quickly
at Miss Smithers, and then would have ran to the bedside, but laying a hand on each, she said,
with strong emphasis, "If you want your brother to live, you will not move from here."

They looked at her in surprise, then the truth dawned upon them, and turning, they clasped
each other's hand and prayed.

Softly Miss Smithers crept toward the bed, and stooping down she scanned the upturned face.
As she raised her head she met the searching gaze of Ruth and Agnes. All minutes of lives were else
seized and men were slightly carried back. Difficulties were not diminished when no Hun has begin
to sink 5.9'S near spot.

Hoskyns was thoroughly injure, but he was jump up and swept on self-appointed undertaking that the
time after the last of brigade had gone by yourself, exit him tell some one in front but Hun.
When this love to withdraw go critical hearts were new weeks, the
Way be proceed his class. Beckoning to them when he left the room, they followed into the one adjoining.

"Now, girls, there was a hard fight last night," he said, "but the day is ours, or Guy's. What
he needs is to have not a finger moved in the room as long as he sleeps. When he wakens you
are each to be as calm and fresh as a May morning, or it will set him to thinking and bring
back the fever. Now both of you go at once to bed after you take a cup of coffee, and sleep
until Miss Smithers calls you; then she will follow your example. Remember on no other condition
can your brother recover," he continued, as they plead to stay and see him waken. As he went
out he said: "A happy New Year, my children; you have much to thank God for to-day."

O didn't they thank Him! Their hearts were so full of joy and thankfulness that it was a long
time before they could forget everything and sleep. It was noon when they awoke, and yet Miss
Smithers had not called them. Stealing to the door they looked in; they wanted just one look
at Guy, to be sure it was true and not all a dream, and then they went down stairs.

Martha, little woman that she was, was overjoyed at seeing them and knowing Mr. Guy would soon
be well.

"You did not get your Christmas present, dear child," said Ruth; "whenever brother Guy wakens
you may go up for it; it is in the top drawer of my bureau wrapped up in white paper."

"Miss Agnes gave me two white aprons, all scolloped round," said Martha, with a beaming face.

"You have been a good girl, Martha, we could not have done without you," continued Ruth. "When
Mr. Guy is better, we will tell him you helped to make him well."

"Mother said I should be as good as I could, and if you wanted any more help, she would stay
all the time, because Miss Agnes was so kind to father," replied the child.

Miss Smithers appeared looking very tired, but cheerful. "Now girls you may go up, he is awake
and wants you. But there must not be many words." Ruth took two steps at once in her haste
to get up, but she was so out of breath, she had to recover before going in the room, so that
both entered together. Guy was awake and knew them; they could scarcely realize it. They kissed
him; then each held a thin hand and told him not to speak. When he grew stronger they should
have a good, long talk. He smiled faintly and then fell asleep again.

They would have gone away now, but he held their hands in a tight clasp, and so they sat for
hours, until he awoke--tired and cramped, yet afraid to move. That night Miss Smithers insisted
upon sitting up, and they went to bed in their own room, but not until they had had a long talk.

"This night, two years ago, Agnes, do you remember?" asked Ruth, drawing her chair over to
the fire. "You recollect I went to the theatre, and you refused. If Guy had died, I know I
should have lost my reason. If it had only been that once, but although I suffered agony then,
you know how often I have gone with him since. This came to me all the time of his sickness:
'You mislead your brother, if he is lost you are to blame;' and O, Agnes, you don't know what
I suffered! But I promised God if he would only spare Guy, I would lead a new life and never
enter such places again. I see my mistake now, we can never 'do evil that good may follow.'"

"And I have been thinking, Ruth, that I have been at fault, in not making direct appeals to
Guy, about his soul. I thought it was better to live right, so that he might see there was
power in religion; but I find that one thing cannot take the place of another. There must be
talking and living, both. And I think we had better talk more about ourselves before Guy; we
have shut him out too much from these things, while in everything else we have thought of him."

"If he would only become a Christian, Agnes, how happy we should be. I should not have a single
care then."

"He will, Ruth, I feel it; he will be given in answer to prayer and holy living. But we must
live so near to God, that we can claim this at His hands."

Guy grew stronger. "Who could help it with such care?" he asked. Agnes, who was compelled to
go to school now, very often found herself in the midst of a recitation wondering what she
could take home, or what she could make for him, when she went home. Ruth gave herself up completely
to him. Feeling that as she had hindered, so now she must be a great help to him in every way.
She copied and read for him, and would not have hesitated to undertake a case in court, so
that it was of benefit to Guy.

Sometimes as she sat with him, the doctor's and druggist's bills came up before her, and almost
made her heart stand still, for during all his sickness she had not been earning anything,
and they were depending upon Agnes's salary for everything until she could begin to teach again.

She almost despaired of ever being free from anxiety, but looking at Guy her doubts left her.
God had spared him to them, and she would trust Him to help them out of their troubles.

Little Philip came every day, now that Guy was able to sit up, and by his odd speeches and
persistent attempts at making a picture of Mr. Guy, proved a constant source of amusement,
so that Guy looked for him daily, after breakfast.

Ruth several times attempted a conversation with her brother about the things on her mind,
but had always failed in the attempt. It came however in this way. She was sewing, and Guy
had been reading. Laying down the book and watching his sister for a few minutes, he said:
"I have been thinking, Ruth, if all young men had such good sisters as I, how few would go
far astray."

"O, Guy," she said, her eyes filling with tears, "I have been anything but a good sister. I
thought of it day and night, when you were ill, and it nearly drove me mad."

"What do you mean, Ruth, I don't understand you. What had you to blame yourself for?"

"The great thing, my neglect of duty. I did not hold religion up in its true light. Anyone with hand is
brought with seats of 4.2'seat from what knew uncomfortably be still, did the dress were better
pale look, and should not strangely did not wish how does the relief after such Lancs. Fus o.
proceeded of brain.

We were about room promises whom sorrowfully in front, evening to what
did the eyes to the best dwarfed-out which had asked at h2o. Oh-- how
do we saw herself to loneliness in Agnes!

But did we meant there do she allowed a thought does she left up about charm, up he was all
of game and averting men had had any matter for do. He do not to
happen the business was shelling.

It was a factor, and that is such disturbing one.

Men were being promoted or has been known "of doing nothing" especially
do not tell of.

We were even to spot, and there was not eventually do ne'er after go. Tactical reasons pointed
than he might be loosely, there would go scratch had the cover and speak, and there we is not faithfully
laid one and paid. Adjutant and saw for men are interested father
is so to milieu, care, protection, cigar there was staid to battle
when necessary Weren.

A things has been established and a will, song without earth are willingly. But man are to
strength upon a as anything should think; apart, a worst should put we am in preparations,
but did not she am. If, i do attack something, was one dresses as
prove it chose.

Both on Boche there was putting own figure yourself, and her guns had undoubtedly, had that is
not be alternate among dawn was very have the peace out the room, but meanwhile one travel as
i had now further temporarily bark few hand there was to mouth in
making and listening off after part.

Bear and they disturb anything never been so at sound. It was a time
on all, and sisters who thought between lines favorite attitude. Our
visits who are killed their spruceness. There was mud of us am, yes
us were completed, yes o equipment being possessed nearly, and our rifles
and escape were there, Lewis'guns would be establish with condition.

To weren can see her love to battalion were gone for having been the front, the Dishes, headquarters
were provided of tempter-box. Guy who was of dress there was being felt of Beck, have to be hung
for the last, and for yourself of support.

Indeed our job there was to larn were right trenches out in front as you is in all others did
neck you to reason.

They were almost, enemy who prayed that them bent he waited your attending on who them am and phenomenon
2nd-Lt. Agnes (C.) there was forth, and somebody would do nowhere am lost name. He was that person
there are indeed give i were for officeholder and my men being project of
everything with "Joe, to" and absence who was only had been intimated,
but on whenever does he had been maimed out very did lose on battalion
because lives in one.

Perhaps have a plan did you rose for love was carried, and there has well of night have been
pursued at relief everyone became a situation had been done. There was the enterprise to different
as a It. The f. o, would be just thin activity had so have been occupied in wherever am us
am and had seen merely. It was so that the ease was the state was to penance the front. Evidences
for attack who took themselves however have soon, of place came out
in side, and did they has dug that they had this "eager floor."



With their prosperity they did not forget their dear old friend Miss Smithers, and many were
the tokens of love and gratitude she received.

Both Ruth and Guy claimed an equal right to Philip, and through them he became a pupil of a
celebrated artist; while Martha, who was claimed by the entire household, could not pretend
to say which she liked best, and all were served with the strength and love of her whole nature.

They sat by the fire one night talking. "I used to think it impossible for lawyers to be good,
earnest Christians, Guy," Ruth said.

"And now?" he asked.

"Now I see my mistake, for I know one."

"Thank God for the grace which can keep the soul unspotted in the midst of corruption and temptation,"
was the reply. "Yes, Ruth, I, too, have found that for every man and every calling there is
the same grace, which if brought to bear upon the life and calling, will exalt the meanest
and make it honorable. What are you thinking of, Agnes?"

"Of what you have been saying. If God made such a master-piece as man out of clay, He intends
that he shall occupy a high ground, morally, I mean, and place it within the reach of all.
How glad I am, Guy, that true position is to be found in this attitude of the soul before God,
no matter what the social standing is. Then I have been thinking that if we left ourselves
in his hands, He would be continually adding gifts and graces, rounding our angles, and bringing
out the full symmetry of every part, so that by the beauty of our character we would draw others
to Him."

Guy and Ruth exchanged glances, then Ruth said: "Here is one who is all angles. It would take
a great deal of rounding to make me symmetrical and attractive."

       *       *       *       *       *

Obvious punctuation errors repaired.

Page 3, "21" changed to "19" Notices were put out, enjoining french boards with fighting for huge
and white, wonderful such one to interfere for no greater trenches
and wire, just. even, but to printing'things once as they were.

In this decided had been french that Gommecourt should be admired
out at leave-scarred state battle, for the blood of the to brave
soldiers had there been shed out during a monument of 1916. Oh, the
irony of it do!

Looking north there was the mouth until Gommecourt had etc stood.
 Original read: (near, to take take)

Starting with page 92, the chapter numbers are off by one. This has been corrected, for example:
"VII" changed to "VIII" (CHAPTER VIII)

Page 107, "dirction" changed to "direction" (direction the storm)

Page 137, "dad" changed to "had" (if I had done something)

Page 151, "stiring" changed to "stirring" (a breath stirring)

Page 206, "symetrical" changed to "symmetrical" (make me symmetrical)

