Was the man who could utter such blasphemous sentiments--for so they undoubtedly appear to
us--a being of ordinary flesh and blood? One would rather have supposed his solids to be of
bronze, and his fluids of vitriol, than have attributed to them the character which he describes.
That he should have been a gentle, meditative creature, around whose knees had clung eleven
'young vipers' of his own begetting, is certainly an astonishing reflection. And yet, to do
Edwards justice, we must remember two things. In the first place, the responsibility for such
ghastly beliefs cannot be repudiated by anyone who believes in the torments of hell. Catholics
and Protestants must share the opprobrium due to the assertion of this tremendous doctrine.
Nor does Arminianism really provide more than a merely verbal escape from the difficulty. Jeremy
Taylor, for example, draws a picture of hell quite as fearful and as material as Edwards',
and, if animated by a less fanatical spirit, adorned by an incomparably more vivid fancy. He
specially improves upon Edwards' description by introducing the sense of smell. The tyrant
who fastened the dead to the living invented an exquisite torment; 'but what is this in respect
of hell, when each body of the damned is more loathsome and unsavoury than a million of dead
dogs, and all those pressed and crowded together in so strait a compass? Bonaventure goes so
far as to say that if one only of the damned were brought into this world, it were sufficient
to infect the whole earth. Neither shall the devils send forth a better smell; for, although
they are spirits, yet those fiery bodies unto which they are fastened and confined shall be
of a more pestilential flavour.' It is vain to attempt an extenuation of the horror, by relieving
the Almighty from the responsibility of this fearful prison-house. The dogma of free-will is
a transparent mockery. It simply enables the believer to retain the hideous side of his creed
by abandoning the rational side. To pass over the objection that by admitting the existence
of chance it really destroys all intelligible measures of merit and of justice, the really
awful dogma remains. You still believe that God has made man too weak to stand alone, that
He has placed him amidst temptations where his fall, if not rigidly certain in a given case,
is still inevitable for the mass, and then torments him eternally for his wickedness. Whether
a man is slain outright, or merely placed without help to wander at random through innumerable
pitfalls, makes no real difference in the character of the action. Theologians profess horror
at the doctrine of infantile damnation, though they cannot always make up their minds to disavow
it explicitly, but they will find it easier to condemn the doctrine than effectually to repudiate
all responsibility. To the statement that it follows logically from the dogma of original sin,
they reply that logic is out of place in such questions. But, if this be granted, do they not
maintain doctrines as hideous, when calmly examined? It is blasphemous, we are told, to say
with Edwards, that God holds the 'little vipers,' whom we call 'helpless innocents,' suspended
over the pit of hell, and drops millions of them into ruthless torments. Certainly it is blasphemous.
But is an infant really more helpless than the poor savage of Australia or St. Giles, surrounded
from his birth with cruel and brutal natures, and never catching one glimpse of celestial light?
Nay, when the question is between God and man, does not the difference between the infant and
the philosopher or the statesman vanish into nothing? All, whatever figment of free-will may
be set up, are equally helpless in face of the surrounding influences which mould their characters
and their fate. Young children, the heterodox declare, are innocent. But the theologian replies
with unanswerable truth, that God looks at the heart and not at the actions, and that science
and theology are at one in declaring that in the child are the germs of the adult man. If human
nature is corrupt and therefore hateful to God, Edwards is quite right in declaring that the
bursting bud must be as hateful as the full-grown tree. To beings of a loftier order, to say
nothing of a Being of infinite power and wisdom, the petty race of man would appear as helpless
as insects appear to us, and the distinction between the children or the ignorant, and the
wise and full-grown, an irrelevant refinement.

It is of course true that the patient reception of this and similar doctrines would indicate
at the present day a callous heart or a perverted intellect. Though, in the sphere of abstract
speculation, we cannot draw any satisfactory line between the man and the infant, there is
a wide gap to the practical imagination. A man ought to be shocked when confronted with this
fearfully concrete corollary to his theories. But the blame should be given where it is due.
The Calvinist is not to blame for the theory of universal law which he shares with the philosopher,
but for the theory of damnation which he shares with the Arminian. The hideous dogma is the
existence of the prison-house, not the belief that its inmates are sent there by God's inscrutable
decree, instead of being drafted into it by lot. And here we come to the second fact which
must be remembered in Edwards' favour. The living truths in his theory are chained to dead
fancies, and the fancies have an odour as repulsive as Taylor's 'million of dead dogs.' But
on the truths is founded a religious and moral system which, however erroneous it may appear
to some thinkers, is conspicuous for its vigour and loftiness. Edwards often shows himself
a worthy successor of the great men who led the moral revolt of the Reformation. Amongst some
very questionable metaphysics and much outworn--sometimes repulsive--superstition, he grasps
the central truths on which all really noble morality must be based. The mode in which they
presented themselves to his mind may be easily traced. Calvinism, logically developed, leads
to Pantheism. The absolute sovereignty of God, the doctrine to which Edwards constantly returns,
must be extended over all nature as well as over the fate of the individual human soul. The
peculiarity of Edwards' mind was, that the doctrine had thus expanded along particular lines
of thought, without equally affecting others. He is a kind of Spinoza-Mather; he combines,
that is, the logical keenness of the great metaphysician with the puerile superstitions of
the New England divine; he sees God in all nature, and yet believes in the degrading supernaturalism
of the Salem witches. The object of his faith, in short, is the 'infinite Jehovah' (vi. 170),
the God to whose all-pervading power none can set a limit, and who is yet the tutelary deity
of a petty clan; and there is something almost bewildering in the facility with which he passes
from one conception to the other without the smallest consciousness of any discontinuity. Of
his coincidence in the popular theories, and especially in the doctrine of damnation, I have
already given instances. His utterances derived from a loftier source are given with equal
emphasis. At the age of fifteen or sixteen he had said 'God and real existence are the same;
God is, and there is none else.'[10] The same doctrine is the foundation of the theories expounded
in his treatises on Virtue and on the End of God in Creation. In the last of these, for example,
he uses the argument (depending upon a conception familiar to the metaphysicians of the previous
age), that benevolence, consisting in regard to 'Being in general,' must be due to any being
in proportion to the degree of existence (ii. 401). Now 'all other being is as nothing in comparison
of the Divine Being.' God is 'the foundation and fountain of all being and all perfection,
from whom all is perfectly derived, and on whom all is most absolutely and perfectly dependent;
whose being and beauty is, as it were, the sum and comprehension of all existence and excellence,
much more than the sun is the fountain and summary comprehension of all the light and brightness
of the day' (ii. 405). As he says in the companion treatise, 'the eternal and infinite Being
is, in effect, being in general, and comprehends universal existence' (vi. 59). The only end
worthy of God must, therefore, be his own glory. This is not to attribute selfishness to God,
for 'in God, the love of Himself and the love of the public are not to be distinguished as
in man, because God's being, as it were, comprehends all' (vi. 53). In communicating His fulness
to His creatures, He is of necessity the ultimate end; but it is a fallacy to make God and
the creature in this affair of the emanation of the Divine fulness, 'the opposite parts of
a disjunction' (vi. 55). The creature's love of God and complacence in the Divine perfections
are the same thing as the manifestation of the Divine glory. 'They are all but the emanations
of God's glory, or the excellent brightness and fulness of the Divinity diffused, overflowing,
and, as it were, enlarged; or, in one word, existing ad extra' (vi. 117). In more familiar
dialect, our love to God is but God's goodness making itself objective. The only knowledge
which deserves the name is the knowledge of God, and virtue is but the knowledge of God under
a different name.

Without dwelling upon the relations of this doctrine to modern forms of Pantheism, I must consider
this last proposition, which is of vital importance in Edwards' system, and of which the theological
and the metaphysical element is curiously blended. God is to the universe--to use Edwards'
own metaphor--what the sun is to our planet; and the metaphor would have been more adequate
if he had been acquainted with modern science. The sun's action is the primary cause of all
the infinitely complex play of forces which manifest themselves in the fall of a raindrop or
in the operations of a human brain. But as some bodies may seem to resist the action of the
sun's rays, so may some created beings set themselves in opposition to the Divine Will. To
a thoroughgoing Pantheist, indeed, such an opposition must appear to be impossible if we look
deep enough, and sin, in this sense, be merely an illusion, caused by our incapacity of taking
in the whole design of the Almighty. Edwards, however, though dimly aware of the difficulty,
is not so consistent in his Pantheism as to be much troubled with it. He admits that, by some
mysterious process, corruption has intruded itself into the Divine universe. The all-pervading
harmony is marred by a discord due, in his phraseology, to the fall of man. Over the ultimate
cause of this discord lies a veil which can never be withdrawn to mortal intelligence. Assuming
its existence, however, virtue consists, if one may so speak, in that quality which fits a
man to be a conducting medium, and vice in that which makes him a non-conducting medium to
the solar forces. This proposition is confounded in Edwards' mind, as in that of most metaphysicians,
with the very different proposition that virtue consists in recognising the Divine origin of
those forces. It is characteristic, in fact, of his metaphysical school, to identify the logical
with the causal connection, and to assume that the definition of a thing necessarily constitutes
its essence. 'Virtue,' says Edwards, 'is the union of heart to being in general, or to God,
the Being of beings' (ii. 421), and thus consists in the intellectual apprehension of Deity,
and in the emotion founded upon and necessarily involving the apprehension. The doctrine that
whatever is done so as to promote the glory of God is virtuous, is with him identified with
the doctrine that whatever is done consciously in order to promote the glory of God is virtuous.
The major premiss of the syllogism which proves an action to be virtuous must be actually present
to the mind of the agent. This, in utilitarian phraseology, is to confound between the criterion
and the motive. If it is, as Edwards says, the test of a virtuous action that it should tend
to 'the highest good of being in general,' it does not follow that an action is only virtuous
when done with a conscious reference to that end. But Edwards overlooks or denies the distinction,
and assumes, for example, as an evident corollary, that a love of children or friends is only
virtuous in so far as it is founded on a desire for the general good, which, in his sense,
is a desire for the glory of God (ii. 428). He judges actions, that is, not by their tendency,
but by their nature; and their nature is equivalent to their logic.

His metaphysical theory coincides precisely with his theological view, and is generally expressed
in theological language. The love of 'Being in general' is the love of God. The intellectual
intuition is the reflection of the inward light, and the recognition of a mathematical truth
is but a different phase of the process which elsewhere produces conversion. Intuition is a
kind of revelation and revelation is a special intuition.

One of his earliest published sermons is devoted to prove the existence of 'a Divine and supernatural
light, immediately imparted to the soul by the Spirit of God' (vol. viii., sermon xxvii.).
On that fundamental doctrine his whole theological system is based; as his metaphysical system
rests on the existence of absolute à priori truths. The knowledge of God sums up all true beliefs,
and justifies all virtuous emotions, as the power of God supports all creation at every instant.
'It is by a Divine influence that the laws of nature are upheld, and a constant concurrence
of Divine power is necessary in order to our being, moving, or having a being' (v. 419). To
be constantly drawing sustenance from the eternal power which everywhere underlies the phenomena
of the world is the necessary condition of spiritual life, as to breathe the air is the condition
of physical life. The force which this conception, whether true or false, exercises over the
imagination, and the depth which it gives to Edwards' moral views, are manifest at every turn.
Edwards rises far above those theories, recurring in so many different forms, which place the
essence of religion in some outward observances, or in a set of propositions not vitally connected
with the spiritual constitution. Edwards' contemporaries, such as Lardner or Sherlock, thought
that to be a Christian was to accept certain results of antiquarian research. With a curious
naïveté they sometimes say that a ploughman or a cobbler could summarily answer the problems
which have puzzled generations of critics. Edwards sees the absurdity of hoping that a genuine
faith can ever be based on such balancing of historical probabilities. The cobbler was to be
awed by the learned man; but how could he implicitly trust a learned man when his soul was
at stake, and when learned men differed? To convince the ignorant or the Houssatunnuck Indian,
God's voice must speak through a less devious channel. The transcendent glory of Divine things
proves their Divinity intuitively; the mind does not indeed discard argument, but it does not
want any 'long chain of argument; the argument is but one and the evidence direct; the mind
ascends to the truth of the Gospel but by one step, and that is its Divine glory.' The moral
theory of the contemporary rationalists was correlative to their religious theory. To be religious
was to believe that certain facts had once happened; to be moral was to believe that under
certain circumstances you would at some future time go to hell. Virtue of that kind was not
to Edwards' taste, though few men have been less sparing in using the appeal to damnation.
But threats of hell-fire were only meant to startle the sinner from his repose. His morality
could be framed from no baser material than love to the Divine perfections. 'What thanks are
due to you for not loving your own misery, and for being willing to take some pains to escape
burning in hell to all eternity? There is ne'er a devil in hell but would gladly do the same'
(viii. 145).

The strength, however, and the weakness of Edwards as a moralist are best illustrated from
the two treatises on the Religious Affections and on Original Sin. The first, which was the
fruit of his experiences at Northampton, may be described as a system of religious diagnostics.
By what symptoms are you to distinguish--that was the problem which forced itself upon him--the
spiritual state produced by the Divine action from that which is but a hollow mockery? After
his mode of judging in concrete cases, as already indicated, we are rather surprised by the
calm and sensible tone of his argument. The deep sense of the vast importance of the events
to which he was a witness makes him the more scrupulous in testing their real character. He
resists the temptation to dwell upon those noisy and questionable manifestations in which the
vulgar thirst for the wonderful found the most appropriate testimony to the work. Roman Catholic
archbishops at the present day can exhort their hearers to put their faith in a silly story
of a vision, on the express ground that the popularity of the belief amongst Catholics proves
its Divine origin. That is wonderfully like saying that a successful lie should be patronised
so long as it is on the side of the Church. Edwards, brought up in a manlier school, deals
with such phenomena in a different spirit. Suppose, he says, that a person terrified by threats
of hell-fire has a vision 'of a person with a beautiful countenance, smiling on him with arms
open and with blood dropping down,' whom he supposes to be Christ come to promise him eternal
life, are we to assume that this vision and the consequent transports infallibly indicate supernatural
agency? No, he replies, with equal sense and honesty; 'he must have but slightly considered
human nature who thinks such things cannot arise in this manner without any supernatural excitement
of Divine power' (iv. 72). Many mischievous delusions have their origin in this error. 'It
is a low, miserable notion of spiritual sense' to suppose that these 'external ideas' (ideas,
that is, such as enter by the senses) are proofs of Divine interference. Ample experience has
shown that they are proofs not of the spiritual health which comes from communion with God,
but of 'weakness of body and mind and distempers of body' (iv. 143). Experience has supplied
exemplary confirmations of Edwards' wisdom. Neither bodily convulsions, nor vehement excitement
of mind, nor even revelations of things to come (iv. 158), are sufficient proofs of that mysterious
change of soul which is called conversion. No external test, in fact, can be given. Man cannot
judge decisively, but the best symptoms are such proofs as increased humility, a love of Christ
for His own sake, without reference to heaven or hell, a sense of the infinite beauty of Divine
things, a certain 'symmetry and proportion' between the affections themselves (iv. 314), a
desire for higher perfection, and a rich harvest of the fruit of Christian practice.

So far, Edwards is unassailable from his own point of view. Our theory of religion may differ
from his; but at least he fully realises how profound is the meaning of the word, and aims
at conquering all human faculties, not at controlling a few external manifestations. But his
further applications of the theory lead him into more doubtful speculations. That Being, a
union with whom constitutes true holiness, is not only to be the ideal of perfect goodness,
but He must be the God of the Calvinists, who fulfils the stipulations of a strange legal bargain,
and the God of the Jews, who sentences whole nations to massacre for the crimes of their ancestors.
Edwards has hitherto been really protesting against that lower conception of God which is latent
in at least the popular versions of Catholic or Arminian theology, and to which Calvinism opposes
a loftier view. God, on this theory, is not really almighty, for the doctrine of free-will
places human actions and their results beyond His control. He is scarcely omniscient, for,
like human rulers, He judges by actions, not by the intrinsic nature of the soul, and therefore
distributes His rewards and punishments on a system comparable to that of mere earthly jurisprudence.
He is at most the infallible judge of actions, not the universal ordainer of events and distributor
of life and happiness. Edwards' profound conviction of the absolute sovereignty of God leads
him to reject all such feeble conceptions. But he has now to tell us where the Divine influence
has actually displayed itself; and his view becomes strangely narrowed. Instead of confessing
that all good gifts come from God, he infers that those which do not come from his own God
must be radically vicious. Already, as we have seen, in virtue of his leading principle, he
has denied to all natural affections the right to be truly virtuous. Unless they involve a
conscious reference to God, they are but delusive resemblances of the reality. He admits that
the natural man can in various ways produce very fair imitations of true virtue. By help of
association of ideas, for example, or by the force of sympathy, it is possible that benevolence
may become pleasing and malevolence displeasing, even when our own interest is not involved
(ii. 436). Nay, there is a kind of moral sense natural to man, which consists in a certain
preception of the harmony between sin and punishment, and which therefore does not properly
spring from self-love. This moral sense may even go so far as to recognise the propriety of
yielding all to the God from whom we receive everything (ii. 443), and the justice of the punishment
of sinners. And yet this natural conscience does not imply the existence of a 'truly virtuous
taste or determination of the mind to relish and delight in the essential beauty of true virtue,
arising from a virtuous benevolence of the heart' (ii. 445). God has bestowed such instincts
upon men for their preservation here; but they will disappear in the next world, where no such
need for them exists. He is driven, indeed, to make some vague concessions (against which his
enlightened commentators protest), to the effect that 'these things [the natural affections]
have something of the general nature of virtue, which is love' (ii. 456); but no such uncertain
affinity can make them worthy to be reckoned with that union with God which is the effect of
the Divine intervention alone.

Edwards is thus in the singular position of a Pantheist who yet regards all nature as alienated
from God; and in the treatise on Original Sin he brings out the more revolting consequences
of that view by help of the theological dogma of corruption. He there maintains in its fullest
sense the terrible thesis, that all men are naturally in a state of which the inevitable issue
is their 'utter eternal perdition, as being finally accursed of God and the subjects of His
remediless wrath through sin' (vi. 137). The evidence of this appalling statement is made up,
with a simplicity which would be amusing if employed in a less fearful cause, of various texts
from Scripture, quoted, of course, after the most profoundly unhistorical fashion; of inferences
from the universality of death, regarded as the penalty incurred by Adam; of general reflections
upon the heathen world and the idolatry of the Jews; and of the sentences pronounced by Jehovah
against the Canaanites. In one of his sermons, of portentous length and ferocity (vol. vii.,
sermon iii.), he expands the doctrine that natural men--which includes all men who have not
gone through the mysterious process of conversion--are God's enemies. Their heart, he says,
'is like a viper, hissing and spitting poison at God;' and God requites their ill-will with
undying enmity and never-ceasing torments. Their unconsciousness of that enmity, and even their
belief that they are rightly affected towards God, is no proof that the enmity does not exist.
The consequences may be conceived. 'God who made you has given you a capacity to bear torment;
and He has that capacity in His hands; and He can enlarge it and make you capable of more misery,
as much as He will. If God hates anyone and sets Himself against him as His enemy, what cannot
He do with him? How dreadful it must be to fall into the hands of such an enemy!' (vii. 201).
How dreadful, we add, is the conception of the universe which implies that God is such an enemy
of the bulk of His creatures; and how strangely it combines with the mild Pantheism which traces
and adores the hand of God in all natural objects! The doctrine, it is to be observed, which
is expanded through many pages of the book on Original Sin, is not merely that men are legally
guilty, as being devoid of 'true virtue,' though possessed of a certain factitious moral sense,
but that they are actually for the most part detestably wicked. One illustration of his method
may be sufficient. The vileness of man is proved by the remark (not peculiar to Edwards), that
men who used to live 1,000 years now live only 70; whilst throughout Christendom their life
does not average more than 40 or 50 years; so that 'sensuality and debauchery' have shortened
our days to a twentieth part of our former allowance.

Thus the Divine power, which is in one sense the sole moving force of the universe, is limited,
so far as its operation upon men's hearts is concerned, to that small minority who have gone
through the process of conversion as recognised by Edwards' sect. All others, heathens, infants,
and the great mass of professed Christians, are sentenced to irretrievable perdition. The simplicity
with which he condemns all other forms even of his own religion is almost touching. He incidentally
remarks, for example, that external exercises may not show true virtue, because they have frequently
proceeded from false religion. Members of the Romish Church and many ancient 'hermits and anchorites'
have been most energetic in such exercises, and Edwards once lived next to a Jew who appeared
to him 'the devoutest person that he ever saw in his life' (iv. 90); but, as he quietly assumes,
all such appearances must of course be delusive.

Once more, then, we are brought back to the question, How could any man hold such doctrines
without going mad? or, as experience has reconciled us to that phenomenon, How could a man
with so many elevated conceptions of the truth reconcile these ghastly conclusions to the nobler
part of his creed? Edwards' own explanations of the difficulty--such as they are--do not help
us very far. The argument by which he habitually defends the justice of the Almighty sounds
very much like a poor quibble in his mouth, though it is not peculiar to him. Our obligation
towards God, he says, must be in proportion to His merits; therefore it is infinite. Now there
is no merit in paying a debt which we owe; and hence the fullest discharge of our duty deserves
no reward. On the other hand, there is demerit in refusing to pay a debt; and therefore any
short-coming deserves an infinite penalty (vi. 155). Without examining whether our duty is
proportional to the perfection of its object, and is irrespective of our capacities, there
is one vital objection to this doctrine, which Edwards had adopted from less coherent reasoners.
His theory, as I have said, so far from destroying virtue, gives it the fullest possible meaning.
There can be no more profound distinction than between the affections which harmonise with
the Divine will and those which are discordant, though it might puzzle a more consistent Pantheist
to account for the existence of the latter. That, however, is a primary doctrine with Edwards.
But if virtue remains, it is certain that his theory seems to be destructive both of merit
and demerit as between man and God. If we are but clay in the hands of the potter, there is
no intelligible meaning in our deserving from him either good or evil. We are as He has made
us. Edwards explains, indeed, that the sense of desert implies a certain natural congruity
between evil-doing and punishment (ii. 430). But the question recurs, how in such a case the
congruity arises? It is one of the illusions which should disappear when we rise to the sphere
of the absolute and infinite. The metaphor about a debt and its payment, though common in vulgar
Calvinism, is quite below Edwards' usual level of thought. And, if we try to restate the argument
in a more congenial form, its force disappears. The love of God, even though imperfect, should
surely imply some conformity to His nature; and even an imperfect love should hardly be confounded,
one might fancy, with an absolute enmity to the Creator. Though the argument, which is several
times repeated, appears to have satisfied Edwards, it would have been more in harmony with
his principles to declare that, as between man and his God, there could be no question of justice.
The absolute sovereignty of the Creator is the only, and to him it should be the conclusive,
answer to such complaints. But, whatever may be the fate of this apology, the one irremovable
difficulty remains behind. If God be the one universal cause of all things, is He not the cause
of evil as well as good? Do you not make God, in short, the author of sin?

With this final difficulty, which, indeed, besets all such theories, Edwards struggles long
and with less than his usual vigour. He tries to show, and perhaps successfully, that the difficulty
concerns his opponents as much as himself. They can, at least, escape only by creating a new
kind of necessity, under the name of contingency; for God is, on this theory, like a mariner
who has constantly to shape his course to meet unforeseen and uncontrollable gusts of wind
(v. 298); and to make the best of it. He insists upon the difference, not very congenial to
his scheme, between ordering and permitting evil. The sun, he says (v. 293), causes light,
but is only the occasion of darkness. If, however, the sun voluntarily retired from the world,
it could scarcely evade the responsibility of its absence. And, finally, he makes the ordinary
distinction, and that which is perhaps the best answer to be made to an unanswerable difficulty.
Christ's crucifixion, he says, was so far bad as it was brought about by malignant murderers:
but as considered by God, with a view to all its glorious consequences, it was not evil, but
good (v. 297). And thus any action may have two aspects; and that which appears to us, whose
view is necessarily limited, as simply evil, may, when considered by an infinite intelligence,
as part of the general order of things, be absolutely good. God does not will sin as sin, but
as a necessary part of a generally perfect system.

Here, however, in front of that ultimate mystery which occurs in all speculation, I must take
leave of this singular thinker. In a frequently-quoted passage, Mackintosh speaks of his 'power
of subtle argument, perhaps unmatched, certainly unsurpassed amongst men.' The eulogy seems
to be rather overstrained, unless we measure subtlety of thought rather by the complexity and
elaboration of its embodiment than by the keenness of the thought itself. But that Edwards
possessed extraordinary acuteness is as clear as it is singular that so acute a man should
have suffered his intellectual activity to be restrained within such narrow fetters. Placed
in a different medium, under the same circumstances, for example, as Hume or Kant, he might
have developed a system of metaphysics comparable in its effect upon the history of thought
to the doctrines of either of those thinkers. He was, one might fancy, formed by nature to
be a German professor, and accidentally dropped into the American forests. Far away from the
main currents of speculation, ignorant of the conclusions reached by his most cultivated contemporaries,
and deriving his intellectual sustenance chiefly from an obsolete theology, with some vague
knowledge of the English followers of Locke, his mind never expanded itself freely. Yet, even
after making allowance for his secluded life, we are astonished at the powerful grasp which
Calvinism, in its expiring age, had laid upon so penetrating an intellect. The framework of
dogma was so powerful, that the explosive force of Edwards' speculations, instead of destroying
his early principles by its recoil, expended its whole energy along the line in which orthodox
opinion was not injured. Most bold speculators, indeed, suffer from a kind of colour-blindness,
which conceals from them a whole order of ideas, sufficiently familiar to very inferior minds.
Edwards' utter unconsciousness of the aspect which his doctrines would present to anyone who
should have passed beyond the charmed circle of orthodox sentiment is, however, more surprising
than the similar defect in any thinker of nearly equal acuteness. In the middle of the eighteenth
century, he is still in bondage to the dogmas of the Pilgrim Fathers; he is as indifferent
to the audacious revolt of the deists and Hume as if the old theological dynasty were still
in full vigour; and the fact, whatever else it may prove, proves something for the enduring
vitality of the ideas which had found an imperfect expression in Calvinism. Clearing away the
crust of ancient superstition, we may still find in Edwards' writings a system of morality
as ennobling, and a theory of the universe as elevated, as can be discovered in any theology.
That the crust was thick and hard, and often revolting in its composition, is, indeed, undeniable;
but the genuine metal is there, no less unmistakably than the refuse.

FOOTNOTES:

[7] The Works of President Edwards. Worcester (Mass.), 1808.

[8] The population of Massachusetts is stated at 164,000 inhabitants in 1742, and 240,000 in
1761.--See Holmes' Annals.

[9] These early New England patriarchs were blessed with abundant families. Edwards' father
had eleven children, his paternal grandfather thirteen, and his maternal grandfather had twelve
children by a lady who had already three children by a previous marriage.

[10] See an interesting article in the 'American Cyclopedia,' which has, however, this odd
peculiarity, that it never mentions hell in discussing the theories of Edwards.

HORACE WALPOLE

The history of England, throughout a very large segment of the eighteenth century, is simply
a synonym for the works of Horace Walpole. There are, indeed, some other books upon the subject.
Some good stories are scattered up and down the 'Annual Register,' the 'Gentleman's Magazine,'
and Nichols' 'Anecdotes.' There is a speech or two of Burke's not without merit, and a readable
letter may be disinterred every now and then from beneath the piles of contemporary correspondence.
When the history of the times comes to be finally written in the fashion now prevalent, in
which some six portly octavos are allotted to a year, and an event takes longer to describe
than to occur, the industrious will find ample mines of waste paper in which they may quarry
to their heart's content. Though Hansard was not, and newspapers were in their infancy, the
shelves of the British Museum and other repositories groan beneath mountains of State papers,
law reports, pamphlets, and chaotic raw materials, from which some precious ore may be smelted
down. But these amorphous masses are attractive chiefly to the philosophers who are too profound
to care for individual character, or to those praiseworthy students who would think the labour
of a year well rewarded by the discovery of a single fact tending to throw a shade of additional
perplexity upon the secret of Junius. Walpole's writings belong to the good old-fashioned type
of history, which aspires to be nothing more than the quintessence of contemporary gossip.
If the opinion be pardonable in these days, history of that kind has not only its charm, but
its serious value. If not very profound or comprehensive, it impresses upon us the fact--so
often forgotten--that our grandfathers were human beings. The ordinary historian reduces them
to mere mechanical mummies; in Walpole's pages they are still living flesh and blood. Turn
over any of the proper decorous history books, mark every passage where, for a moment, we seem
to be transported to the past--to the thunders of Chatham, the drivellings of Newcastle, or
the prosings of George Grenville, as they sounded in contemporary ears--and it will be safe
to say that, on counting them up, a good half will turn out to be reflections from the illuminating
flashes of Walpole. Excise all that comes from him, and the history sinks towards the level
of the solid Archdeacon Coxe; add his keen touches, and, as in the 'Castle of Otranto,' the
portraits of our respectable old ancestors, which have been hanging in gloomy repose upon the
wall, suddenly step from their frames, and, for some brief space, assume a spectral vitality.

It is only according to rule that a writer who has been so useful should have been a good deal
abused. No one is so amusing and so generally unpopular as a clever retailer of gossip. Yet
it does seem rather hard that Walpole should have received such hard measure from Macaulay,
through whose pages so much of his light has been transfused. The explanation, perhaps, is
easy. Macaulay dearly loved the paradox that a man wrote admirably precisely because he was
a fool, and applied it to the two greatest portrait painters of the times--Walpole and Boswell.
There is something which hurts our best feelings in the success of a man whom we heartily despise.
It seems to imply, which is intolerable, that our penetration has been at fault, or that merit--that
is to say, our own conspicuous quality--is liable to be out-stripped in this world by imposture.
It is consoling if we can wrap ourselves in the belief that good work can be extracted from
bad brains, and that shallowness, affectation, and levity can, by some strange chemistry, be
transmuted into a substitute for genius. Do we not all, if we have reached middle age, remember
some idiot (of course he was an idiot!) at school or college who has somehow managed to slip
past us in the race of life, and revenge ourselves by swearing that he is an idiot still, and
that idiocy is a qualification for good fortune? Swift somewhere says that a paper-cutter does
its work all the better when it is blunt, and converts the fact into an allegory of human affairs
showing that decorous dulness is an over-match for genius. Macaulay was incapable, both in
a good and bad sense, of Swift's trenchant misanthropy. His dislike to Walpole was founded
not so such upon posthumous jealousy--though that passion is not so rare as absurd--as on the
singular contrast between the character and intellect of the two men. The typical Englishman,
with his rough, strong sense, passing at times into the narrowest insular prejudice, detested
the Frenchified fine gentleman who minced his mother tongue and piqued himself on cosmopolitan
indifference to patriotic sentiment: the ambitious historian was irritated by the contempt
which the dilettante dabbler in literature affected for their common art; and the thoroughgoing
Whig was scandalised by the man who, whilst claiming that sacred name, and living face to face
with Chatham and Burke and the great Revolution families in all their glory, ventured to intimate
his opinion that they, like other idols, had a fair share of clay and rubbish in their composition,
and who, after professing a kind of sham republicanism, was frightened by the French Revolution
into a paroxysm of ultra-Toryism. 'You wretched fribble!' exclaims Macaulay; 'you shallow scorner
of all that is noble! You are nothing but a heap of silly whims and conceited airs! Strip off
one mask of affectation from your mind, and we are still as far as ever from the real man.
The very highest faculty that can be conceded to you is a keen eye for oddities, whether in
old curiosity shops or in Parliament; and to that you owe whatever just reputation you have
acquired.' Macaulay's fervour of rebuke is amusing, though, by righteous Nemesis, it includes
a species of blindness as gross as any that he attributes to Walpole. The summary decision
that the chief use of France is to interpret England to Europe, is a typical example of that
insular arrogance for which Matthew Arnold popularised the name of Philistinism.

Yet criticism of this one-sided kind has its value. At least it suggests a problem. What is
the element left out of account? Folly is never the real secret of a literary reputation, or
what noble harvests of genius we should produce! If we patiently take off all the masks we
must come at last to the animating principle beneath. Even the great clothes philosophers did
not hold that a mere Chinese puzzle of mask within mask could enclose sheer vacancy; there
must be some kernel within, which may be discovered by sufficient patience. And in the first
place, it may be asked, why did poor Walpole wear a mask at all? The answer seems to be obvious.
The men of that age may be divided by a line which, to the philosophic eye, is of far more
importance than that which separated Jacobites from loyal Whigs or Dissenters from High Churchmen.
It separated the men who could drink two bottles of port after dinner from the men who could
not. To men of delicate digestions the test imposed by the jovial party in ascendency must
have been severer than those due to political or ecclesiastical bigotry. They had to choose
between social disabilities on the one side, and on the other indigestion for themselves and
gout for their descendants. Thackeray, in a truly pathetic passage, partly draws the veil from
their sufferings. The very report of such conviviality--before which Christopher North's performances
in the 'Noctes Ambrosianæ' sink into insignificance--is enough to produce nightmares in the
men of our degenerate times, and may help us to understand the peevishness of feeble invalids
such as Pope and Lord Hervey in the elder generation, or Walpole in that which was rising.
Amongst these Gargantuan consumers, who combined in one the attributes of 'gorging Jack and
guzzling Jemmy,' Sir Robert Walpole was celebrated for his powers, and seems to have owed to
them no small share of his popularity. Indeed, the sirloin does not ask quite so many questions.'
What was the style of conversation at these tremendous entertainments had better be left to
the imagination. Sir R. Walpole's theory on that subject is upon record; and we can dimly guess
at the feelings of a delicate young gentleman who had just learnt to talk about Domenichinos
and Guidos, and to buy ancient bronzes, when plunged into the coarse society of these mountains
of roast beef. As he grew up manners became a trifle more refined, and the customs described
so faithfully by Fielding and Smollett belonged to a lower social stratum. Yet we can fancy
Walpole's occasional visit to his constituents, and imagine him forced to preside at one of
those election feasts which still survive on Hogarth's canvas. Substitute him for the luckless
fine gentleman in a laced coat, who represents the successful candidate in the first picture
of the series. A drunken voter is dropping lighted pipe ashes upon his wig; a hideous old hag
is picking his pockets; a boy is brewing oceans of punch in a mash-tub; a man is blowing bagpipes
in his ear; a fat parson close by is gorging the remains of a haunch of venison; a butcher
is pouring gin on his neighbour's broken head; an alderman--a very mountain of roast beef--is
sinking back in a fit, whilst a barber is trying to bleed him; brickbats are flying in at the
windows; the room reeks with the stale smell of heavy viands and the fresh vapours of punch
and gin, whilst the very air is laden with discordant howls and thick with oaths and ribald
songs. Only think of the smart young candidate's headache next morning in the days when soda-water
was not invented! And remember too that the representatives were not entirely free from sympathy
with the coarseness of their constituents. Just at the period of Hogarth's painting, Walpole,
when speaking of the feeling excited by a Westminster election, has occasion to use this pleasing
'new fashionable proverb'--'We spit in his hat on Thursday, and wiped it off on Friday.' It
owed its origin to a feat performed by Lord Cobham at an assembly given at his own house. For
a bet of a guinea he came behind Lord Hervey, who was talking to some ladies, and made use
of his hat as a spittoon. The point of the joke was that Lord Hervey--son of Pope's 'mere white
curd of asses' milk,' and related, as the scandal went, rather too closely to Horace Walpole
himself--was a person of effeminate appearance, and therefore considered unlikely--wrongly,
as it turned out--to resent the insult. We may charitably hope that the assailants, who thus
practically exemplified the proper mode of treating milksops, were drunk. The two-bottle men
who lingered till our day were surviving relics of the type which then gave the tone to society.
Within a short period there was a prime minister who always consoled himself under defeats
and celebrated triumphs with his bottle; a chancellor who abolished evening sittings on the
ground that he was always drunk in the evening; and even an archbishop--an Irish archbishop,
it is true--whose jovial habits broke down his constitution. Scratch those jovial toping aristocrats,
and you everywhere find the Squire Western. A man of squeamish tastes and excessive sensibility
jostled amongst that thick-skinned, iron-nerved generation, was in a position with which anyone
may sympathise who knows the sufferings of a delicate lad at a public school in the old (and
not so very old) brutal days. The victim of that tyranny slunk away from the rough horseplay
of his companions to muse, like Dobbin, over the 'Arabian Nights' in a corner, or find some
amusement which his tormentors held to be only fit for girls. So Horace Walpole retired to
Strawberry Hill and made toys of Gothic architecture, or heraldry, or dilettante antiquarianism.
The great discovery had not then been made, we must remember, that excellence in field-sports
deserved to be placed on a level with the Christian virtues. The fine gentlemen of the Chesterfield
era speak of fox-hunting pretty much as we speak of prize-fighting and bull-baiting. When all
manly exercises had an inseparable taint of coarseness, delicate people naturally mistook effeminacy
for refinement. When you can only join in male society on pain of drinking yourself under the
table, the safest plan is to retire to tea-tables and small talk. For many years, Walpole's
greatest pleasure seems to have been drinking tea with Lady Suffolk, and carefully piecing
together bits of scandal about the Courts of the first two Georges. He tells us, with all the
triumph of a philosopher describing a brilliant scientific induction, how he was sometimes
able, by adding his bits of gossip to hers, to unravel the secret of some wretched intrigue
which had puzzled two generations of quidnuncs. The social triumphs on which he most piqued
himself were of a congenial order. He sits down to write elaborate letters to Sir Horace Mann,
at Florence, brimming over with irrepressible triumph when he has persuaded some titled ladies
to visit his pet toy, the printing-press, at Strawberry Hill, and there, of course to their
unspeakable surprise, his printer draws off a copy of verses composed in their honour in the
most faded style of old-fashioned gallantry. He is intoxicated by his appointment to act as
poet-laureate on the occasion of a visit of the Princess Amelia to Stowe. 'She was really in
Elysium,' he declares, and visited the arch erected in her honour three or four times a day.

It is not wonderful, we must confess, that burly ministers and jovial squires laughed horse-laughs
at this mincing dandy, and tried in their clumsy fashion to avenge themselves for the sarcasms
which, as they instinctively felt, lay hid beneath this mask of affectation. The enmity between
the lapdog and the mastiff is an old story. Nor, as we must confess again, were these tastes
redeemed by very amiable qualities beneath the smooth external surface. There was plenty of
feminine spite as well as feminine delicacy. To the marked fear of ridicule natural to a sensitive
man Walpole joined a very happy knack of quarrelling. He could protrude a feline set of claws
from his velvet glove. He was a touchy companion and an intolerable superior. He set out by
quarrelling with Gray, who, as it seems, could not stand his dandified airs of social impertinence,
though it must be added in fairness that the bond which unites fellow travellers is, perhaps,
the most trying known to humanity. He quarrelled with Mason after twelve years of intimate
correspondence; he quarrelled with Montagu after a friendship of some forty years; he always
thought that his dependants, such as Bentley, were angels for six months, and made their lives
a burden to them afterwards; he had a long and complex series of quarrels with all his near
relations. Sir Horace Mann escaped any quarrel during forty-five years of correspondence; but
Sir Horace never left Florence and Walpole never reached it. Conway alone remained intimate
and immaculate to the end, though there is a bitter remark or two in the Memoirs against the
perfect Conway. With ladies, indeed, Walpole succeeded better; and perhaps we may accept, with
due allowance for the artist's point of view, his own portrait of himself. He pronounces himself
to be a 'boundless friend, a bitter but placable enemy.' Making the necessary corrections,
we should translate this into 'a bitter enemy, a warm but irritable friend.' Tread on his toes,
and he would let you feel his claws, though you were his oldest friend; but so long as you
avoided his numerous tender points, he showed a genuine capacity for kindliness and even affection;
and in his later years he mellowed down into an amiable purring old gentleman, responding with
eager gratitude to the caresses of the charming Miss Berrys. Such a man, skinless and bilious,
was ill qualified to join in the rough game of politics. He kept out of the arena where the
hardest blows were given and taken, and confined his activity to lobbies and backstairs, where
scandal was to be gathered and the hidden wires of intrigue to be delicately manipulated. He
chuckles irrepressibly when he has confided a secret to a friend, who has let it out to a minister,
who communicates it to a great personage, who explodes into inextinguishable wrath, and blows
a whole elaborate plot into a thousand fragments. To expect deep and settled political principle
from such a man would be to look for grapes from thorns and figs from thistles; but to do Walpole
justice, we must add that it would be equally absurd to exact settled principle from any politician
of that age. We are beginning to regard our ancestors with a strange mixture of contempt and
envy. We despise them because they cared nothing for the thoughts which for the last century
have been upheaving society into strange convulsions; we envy them because they enjoyed the
delicious calm which was the product of that indifference. Wearied by the incessant tossing
and boiling of the torrent which carries us away, we look back with fond regret to the little
backwater so far above Niagara, where scarcely a ripple marks the approaching rapids. There
is a charm in the great solid old eighteenth-century mansions, which London is so rapidly engulfing,
and even about the old red brick churches with 'sleep-compelling' pews. We take imaginary naps
amongst our grandfathers with no railways, no telegraphs, no mobs in Trafalgar Square, no discussions
about ritualism or Dr. Colenso, and no reports of parliamentary debates. It is to our fancies
an 'island valley of Avilion,' or, less magniloquently, a pleasant land of Cockaine, where
we may sleep away the disturbance of battle, and even read through 'Clarissa Harlow.' We could
put up with an occasional highwayman in Hyde Park, and perhaps do not think that our comfort
would be seriously disturbed by a dozen executions in a morning at Tyburn. In such visionary
glances through the centuries we have always the advantage of selecting our own position in
life, and perhaps there are few that for such purposes we should prefer to Walpole's. We should
lap ourselves against eating cares in the warm folds of a sinecure of 6,000l. a year bestowed
because our father was a Prime Minister. There are many immaculate persons at the present day
to whom truth would be truth even when seen through such a medium. There are--we have their
own authority for believing it--men who would be republicans, though their niece was married
to a royal duke. Walpole, we must admit, was not of the number. He was an aristocrat to the
backbone. He was a gossip by nature and education, and had lived from infancy in the sacred
atmosphere of court intrigue; every friend he possessed in his own rank either had a place,
or had lost a place, or was in want of a place, and generally combined all three characters;
professed indifference to place was only a cunning mode of angling for a place, and politics
was a series of ingeniously-contrived manoeuvres in which the moving power of the machinery
was the desire of sharing the spoils. Walpole's talk about Magna Charta and the execution of
Charles I. could, it is plain, imply but a skin-deep republicanism. He could not be seriously
displeased with a state of things of which his own position was the natural out-growth. His
republicanism was about as genuine as his boasted indifference to money--a virtue which is
not rare in bachelors who have more than they can spend. So long as he could buy as much bric-a-brac,
as many knicknacks, and old books and bronzes and curious portraits and odd gloves of celebrated
characters as he pleased; add a new tower and a set of battlements to Strawberry Hill every
few years; keep a comfortable house in London, and have a sufficiency of carriages and horses;
treat himself to an occasional tour, and keep his press steadily at work; he was not the man
to complain of poverty. He was a republican, too, as long as that word implied that he and
his father and uncles and cousins and connections by marriage and their intimate friends were
to have everything precisely their own way; but if a vision could have shown him the reformers
of a coming generation who would inquire into civil lists and object to sinecures--to say nothing
of cutting off the heads of the first families--he would have prayed to be removed before the
evil day. Republicanism in his sense was a word exclusive of revolution. Was it, then, a mere
meaningless mask intended only to conceal the real man? Before passing such a judgment we should
remember that the names by which people classify their opinions are generally little more than
arbitrary badges; and even in these days, when practice treads so closely on the heels of theory,
some persons profess to know extreme radicals who could be converted very speedily by a bit
of riband. Walpole has explained himself with unmistakable frankness, and his opinion was at
least intelligible. He was not a republican after the fashion of Robespierre, or Jefferson,
or M. Gambetta; but he had some meaning. When a duke in those days proposed annual parliaments
and universal suffrage, we may assume that he did not realise the probable effect of those
institutions upon dukes; and when Walpole applauded the regicides, he was not anxious to send
George III. to the block. He meant, however, that he considered George III. to be a narrow-minded
and obstinate fool. He meant, too, that the great Revolution families ought to distribute the
plunder and the power without interference from the Elector of Hanover. He meant, again, that
as a quick and cynical observer, he found the names of Brutus and Algernon Sidney very convenient
covers for attacking the Duke of Newcastle and the Earl of Bute. But beyond all this, he meant
something more, which gives the real spice to his writings. It was something not quite easy
to put into formulas; but characteristic of the vague discomfort of the holders of sinecures
in those halcyon days arising from the perception that the ground was hollow under their feet.
To understand him we must remember that the period of his activity marks precisely the lowest
ebb of political principle. Old issues had been settled, and the new ones were only just coming
to the surface. He saw the end of the Jacobites and the rise of the demagogues. His early letters
describe the advance of the Pretender to Derby; they tell us how the British public was on
the whole inclined to look on and cry, 'Fight dog, fight bear;' how the Jacobites who had anything
to lose left their battle to be fought by half-starved cattle-stealers, and contented themselves
with drinking to the success of the cause; and how the Whig magnates, with admirable presence
of mind, raised regiments, appointed officers, and got the expenses paid by the Crown. His
later letters describe the amazing series of blunders by which we lost America in spite of
the clearest warnings from almost every man of sense in the kingdom. The interval between these
disgraceful epochs is filled--if we except the brief episode of Chatham--by a series of struggles
between different connections--one cannot call them parties--which separate and combine, and
fight and make peace, till the plot of the drama becomes too complicated for human ingenuity
to unravel. Lads just crammed for a civil service examination might possibly bear in mind all
the shifting combinations which resulted from the endless intrigues of Pelhams and Grenvilles
and Bedfords and Rockinghams; yet even those omniscient persons could hardly give a plausible
account of the principles which each party conceived itself to be maintaining. What, for example,
were the politics of a Rigby, or a Bubb Dodington? The diary in which the last of these eminent
persons reveals his inmost soul is perhaps the most curious specimen of unconscious self-analysis
extant. His utter baseness and venality, his disgust at the 'low venal wretches' to whom he
had to give bribes; his creeping and crawling before those from whom he sought to extract bribes;
his utter incapacity to explain a great man except on the hypothesis of insanity; or to understand
that there is such a thing as political morality, derive double piquancy from the profound
conviction that he is an ornament to society, and from the pious aspirations which he utters
with the utmost simplicity. Bubb wriggled himself into a peerage, and differed from innumerable
competitors only by superior frankness. He is the fitting representative of an era from which
political faith has disappeared, as Walpole is its fitting satirist. All political virtue,
it is said, was confined, in Walpole's opinion, to Conway and the Marquis of Hertford. Was
he wrong? or, if he was wrong, was it not rather in the exception than the rule? The dialect
in which his sarcasms are expressed is affected, but the substance is hard to dispute. The
world, he is fond of saying, is a tragedy to those who feel, a comedy to those who think. He
preferred the comedy view. Here is a picture of English politics in the time of Wilkes. It
is difficult to put into more graphic language the symptoms of an era just ripe for revolution.
If frivolous himself, Walpole can condemn the frivolity of others.

Walpole, in fact, represents a common creed amongst comfortable but clear-headed men of his
time. It was the strange mixture of scepticism and conservatism which is exemplified in such
men as Hume and Gibbon. He was at heart a Voltairian, and, like his teacher, confounded all
religions and political beliefs under the name of superstition. Voltaire himself did not anticipate
the Revolution to which he, more than any man, had contributed. Walpole, with stronger personal
reasons than Voltaire for disliking a catastrophe, was as furious as Burke when the volcano
burst forth. He was a republican so far as he disbelieved in the divine right of kings, and
hated enthusiasm and loyalty generally. He wished the form to survive and the spirit to disappear.
Things were rotten, and he wished them to stay rotten. The ideal to which he is constantly
recurring was the pleasant reign of his father, when nobody made a fuss or went to war, or
kept principles except for sale. He foresaw, however, far better than most men, the coming
crash. If political sagacity be fairly tested by a prophetic vision of the French Revolution,
Walpole's name should stand high. He visited Paris in 1765, and remarks that laughing is out
of fashion. 'In the first place, it comprehends almost everybody, and in the next it means
men who, avowing war against Papacy, aim, many of them, at the destruction of regal power.
As it is, we may surely call them shrewd glances for a frivolous coxcomb.

