AMERICAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS

INSTITUTED 1852

TRANSACTIONS

Paper No. 1151

THE NEW YORK TUNNEL EXTENSION OF THE PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD.

THE NORTH RIVER DIVISION. To this separation and the whole thing falls sake of intellectual judgments
yet apart two consciousnesses, each under a unilateral determination is .-- As now first the indifference
of the two sides of alienation - the one, the in-itself of pure consciousness, namely the specific
ideas of good and bad, and the other, their existence as a state power and wealth - the relationship
of both, the ruling stood, so has this external relation to the internal unit, or as a relation
of thought reality to rise, and the spirit of the two figures emerge of the appeal. This occurs by
the verdict at the conclusion becomes the mediating movement in which the need and Middle of
the two sides of the Judgement emerges.

The noble-awareness is therefore the ruling so the state power over that Although they have
not a self but only the general substance of which it but when his Being as the purpose and content,
the absolute realize. Referring to it so positively, If it be negative to its own aims, its particular
content and existence, and collecting it. It is the heroism of the service - The virtue which
the individual Be the universal sacrifice, and this fact brings into existence, - the person
who the Renounce possession and enjoyment of himself, and is for the existing power and real.

Through
this movement, the General is affiliated at all with the existence,
as the existent awareness of the significance of this alienation is
formed.

 Mr. Corbin, however, was aware that, in
the transportation problem he had in hand, the Central Railroad of New Jersey and the Philadelphia
and Reading Railroad were not as important factors as the Pennsylvania Railroad, and, in consequence,
he abandoned the scheme for a tunnel to the Central Railroad of New Jersey for a line direct
to the Pennsylvania Railroad terminal in Jersey City. 

This works its owner is the absolute freedom to the object, and self-consciousness finds out
what it is. In itself it is just this abstract self-consciousness, which all the difference and the
difference destroyed all existence in itself. When this it is the object, and the fear of death
is the view of their negative Being. This finds its reality but the absolute freedom of self-confidence
quite different when her term by itself was, namely that the general will of only the positive
nature the personality is, and this in it will only be positive or know. But here It is for the
pure insight as its positive and negative nature - the Absolute praedikatlose as pure thought
and as a pure matter - absolutely separated, the absolute transition from the one into the other in
its present reality .-- The general will, to be absolutely positive real self-confidence, suggests,
because these for pure thought or abstract Matter is increased self-conscious reality, in order to
the negative nature, and proves is also releasing the self-to be self-thinking or self-consciousness.

The
absolute freedom that is as pure self-identity of the general will, the negation, but that
the difference at all to her, and developed it again as a real difference.

Because the pure negativity of the self-same general will of the element of Existence or the substance
in which to realize their moments, she has the matter which they can use in their determination, and so
far this substance, as the negative has shown for the individual consciousness, is thus again
the organization of mental Masses from which the amount of individual consciousness is allocated.
It, which Fear of their absolute master, death felt to be the negation and the differences
re-arrange fallen in with the masses, and come to a shared and limited Works, but then revert to
their substantial reality.

The spirit of this would be riots on his starting points of moral and real world education, thrown
back, which by the fear of the Lord, again in the minds have come
only refreshed and rejuvenated.



After these investigations had been made, early in 1892, Mr. Roberts expressed himself as being
favorable to the undertaking, with the definite limitation that the tunnels must be for small
cars doing local suburban business, and for the transfer of Pennsylvania Railroad passengers
to and from New York, Brooklyn, and Jersey City, and not in any way to be tunnels for standard
steam equipment, the expense for terminals and the prohibited use of coal for fuel in such
tunnels not warranting any broader consideration. Similarly, it sets itself as such, the reality
that the requirement is inappropriate lifted, and when superseded or in the idea of ​​the absolute
essence, of morality, not contradict them.

For the moral consciousness itself, however, has its moral Belief
does not signify that there are in it his Concept developed and it
is the object of power, it was not an awareness of this contrast of
form, nor about the Contrast in content, the parts not with each
other relates and compares, but in its development, without the cohesive
concept of moments to be fortwaelzt. For it knows only the pure essence,
or the object so far he duty insofar as it is abstract of his pure consciousness,
 as pure knowledge or herself, it behaves just not thinking, comprehending.
Therefore, it is the object of his still not real clear consciousness,
it is not the absolute concept, but the otherness as such, or his
absolute opposite recognized as himself. His own reality and any
objective reality it is regarded as the Insignificant, but his freedom
is the freedom of the pure Thinking, what about both the nature as compared
to an equally Free arose. Because both are in the same way in
him, Freedom of being and the confinement of the same in the Consciousness,
will be the subject as a being who also just thought, is in the last
part of his view the content set so much that his being an imagined is,
and this connection of being and thinking as the expressed what
it is, in fact, imagining.

By considering the moral world view so that this objective mode nothing
other than the concept of moral self-consciousness itself,
it is the objective power, results from this awareness about the
form of its origin, a different form their presentation .-- The First,
there is presumption of which is the real moral Self-confidence, or
that there is such a thing.

Because it uses the term in determining that it all actually being at all has so far only as it
is according to the requirement, and it is this essence as knowledge, ie in immediate unity with the
real self; this unity is thus self really, it is a moral real awareness .-- This Now as consciousness
arises from its content as an object, namely as the final purpose of World, as the harmony of
morality and of all reality. But by this unit as Introduces the subject, and yet the concept is
that the power over the subject matter as such has, so they feel it is a negative self-esteem,
or it falls outside of it, as something beyond its reality, but also as one that even as existing,
but is only thought.

What is it that is as self-confidence because of another object, herewith is left is not harmony
of duty consciousness and reality, and are indeed his. The sentence is hereby "now this: there
is no moral consummate real self-confidence, - and because the moral at all is only insofar as
it is completed, because the duty is pure unmixed in-itself, and the morality consists only in
the adequacy of this pure, that's the name of the second set at all
so that there is no real moral is.

By the third but a self is, so it is in itself the unity of duty and the reality; this unit it is thus
subject than the perfect morality - but as something beyond its reality - but that is supposed
to be real.
 The panic of 1893, occurring about that time, checked
further progress on this scheme, and, before it could be revived again, other important projects
for reaching New York City were given consideration. Those
same figures that were considered - the true, alienated, and the self-certain spirit - to make
him up into his consciousness, which in World against trespassing in her will not recognize.
But, in conscience, he submits to such his objective world at all, so his vision and his specific
terms, and is now existent in the self-confidence. In this he has for himself, as an object presented,
the importance of being the general spirit of all beings and all reality contains in itself,
is not in the form of free or reality of independence appears Nature. He has indeed shape or form
of being, by object of his consciousness but is this because of religion in the essential determination,
self-awareness be set, the figure is perfectly transparent, and the reality that it contains
is included in it or that it lifted just the way as if We talk all reality, it is the imaginary,
universal reality.

By so in religion the determination of the actual consciousness of
the mind not the Shape of the free otherness is, his existence is
distinguished from its self-confidence, and its actual reality falls
outside of religion, it is probably a spirit of both, but his consciousness
includes not both since, and religion seems to be a part of the Life
and activity and bustle, the other part of life in its real world.

 The torn But awareness
is the awareness of the inversion, namely the absolute perversion, and the Concept is the ruler
in it, which brings together the ideas that the honesty far apart, and whose language is so
witty.

The content of the speech of the spirit of and about yourself is even so the perversion of all
concepts and realities, the general fraud of himself and the other,
and the shamelessness to say that fraud is just about the biggest
truth. In 1893 an investigation
was made for such a tunnel, to be of similar size to the East River Gas Tunnel (8 by 10 ft.),
solely for the purpose of handling baggage and express matter. Investigation was made and estimates
prepared, but the cost was considered to be prohibitive in view of the possible earnings solely
from the handling of baggage and express, and the matter was not considered further.

While Mr. Corbin was deeply interested in the down-town river tunnels, the up-town situation
was of great importance to the Long Island Railroad, and, having allied himself with Mr. Charles
Pratt, they took up generally the franchise owned by Dr. Thomas Rainey for a bridge over Blackwell's
Island. Mr. Corbin became interested with Dr. Rainey in 1894, and the actual construction proceeded
on this bridge. The design provided for four railroad tracks, besides highways for tracks,
pedestrians, etc., with a terminal station at Third Avenue and 64th Street, New York City,
which, under the franchise, was the limit to which the railroad could proceed.

At this period there were two projects for bridging the Hudson or North River: the New York
and New Jersey Bridge Company at about 59th Street, and the North River Bridge Company at 23d
Street, as hereinbefore described. Several studies were made by the writer, with the idea of
making a rail connection between the Long Island "Rainey" bridge and a bridge over the North
River. An overhead structure connection was prohibitory, as no franchise could be obtained
to cross Fifth Avenue with an overhead structure. Sketches were prepared for a subway construction
to connect with the bridges, but a final plan was not worked out. In the union, not initially in a permanent
order, but only to a joint action, is that freedom of the All share and each time being put
to the side. This initial communality is therefore more a gathering of individuality as the rule
of abstract thought, the individuals of their self-conscious portion of will and action would deprive
the whole.

The Assembly of People's ghost makes a circle of figures, the "now" all Nature like the whole
moral world is concerned. They too are under the command of a more as its supremacy. For themselves they
are the general substance of what the confident Nature itself is and does. This does, however, the
power, and initially the focus of at least out, efforts to those general nature itself, the only
first zufaelligerweise their shops seems to connect. But the return of the divine nature in the
self-confidence is It already contains the reason that the center of this for those divine
powers forms, and the essential unity initially in the form of a friendly appearance Relationship
between the two worlds lies.

The same general public, which belongs to this content has necessarily the form of consciousness,
in which it occurs. It is no longer the actual activity of the cult, but an action that Although
not yet in the concept, but only in the imagination, in the synthetic Verknuepfung the self-conscious
and the external existence is raised. The existence of this performance, the Language is the
first language, the epic as such, the general content, at least as completeness of the world,
although not contain as universality of thought. The Saenger is the individual and real, from this
world she created as the subject and supported is. His pathos is not the numbing power of nature,
but the Mnemosyne, the reflection gewordne and inwardness, the memory of the earlier direct
nature. He is in the its content disappearing institution, is not his own self, but his muse,
his general vocals. But what there is in fact, is the final, where the extreme of Generality,
the Goetterwelt, through the center of the specificity of the detail, the Saenger, LINKED. The center
is the people in his hero, which some people are like The singer, but only imagined by both
general and how the free extreme of Generality, the gods.

This epic is, therefore, the consciousness is at all, which concluded in the ritual itself is the
relationship of the divine to the human. The content is an act of his self-conscious being.
This action disturbs the peace of the substance and the nature of excited, which shared its simplicity
and in the varied world of natural and moral Forces is disrupted. The action is the violation of
the quiet earth, the pit inspired by the blood, the departed spirits of causes, which thirsting
for life, it get in the act of self-consciousness. The shops to which the general effort the
gets the two sides, the selfish, a set of real peoples and the standing at the head of individuality,
and the general, from their substantial Powers to be done. The relationship between the two
but some are just now so that they the synthetic compound is of general and individual, or imagining.
From this Certainty, the assessment from this world .-- The ratio of both is therefore a Mixing,
which distributes the unit of action inconsistent and the plot ueberfluessigerweise from one side
to the other herueberwirft. The general powers have the shape of the Individuality, and therefore
the principle of acting in them, their work is thus seen as an equally free of them all outgoing activity
as that of people. A and have the same therefore just as well as the gods did the people. The
seriousness of those powers is a ridiculous Abundance, since these are the acting individuality
in fact the force - and the effort and this work is just as useless effort, since that control
everything rather .-- The SURFACE Mortals who do not are are also the mighty self, the general nature
subordinate to, the gods hurt them at all the reality and an interest of action provides, as vice versa,
this powerless generalities that are different from the gifts nourish the people and get through them first
to do something, the natural essence and Substance of all events and also the moral matter and
the pathos of action are. When their elemental natures by the free individuality of the self
only in reality and was active relationship are brought, they are as much the universal, which
is In this connection, withdraws and is unlimited in its determination by the insuperable Elasticity
of his unit, the punctuality of the activity and its figurations effaces themselves purely
receives, and dissolves everything in its Individual fluid.

As they fall with the conflicting selfish nature in this contradictory relationship, as their general
devices at their own determination and their relationship to other in conflict. They are the
eternal beautiful individuals who are in their dormant existence,
the transience and foreign rule are removed .-- But they are also
certain elements, peculiar gods who behave so to others.

But the relationship to another, according to the its opposition, a dispute with them, is a comic
abandon their eternal nature .-- The determination is rooted in the divine existence and in
its Limiting the autonomy of all individuality; lose their characters by this also the sharpness
of the owners and mix in its ambiguity .-- A The purpose of the activity and its own activities, as
they face an other and thus against a invincible divine force is directed, is an empty throw random
spreading, which also melts and the apparent seriousness of the plot in a risk-free, its even
safer Game with no result and success changed. But if the nature of their divinity, the Negative
or the same determination just as the inconsistency of her work and the Contradiction of the purpose
and success appear by yourself and about those security the determinate the preponderance reserves,
so it occurs precisely because the sheer force of the negative opposite, namely as its ultimate
power over virtue of which they have nothing. They are the Education and positive against the individual
self of mortals, not against their power endure, but the general question about self hovers over
them and the whole world the idea which angehoert all the content, and when the non-conceptual
emptiness of necessity - a Events against which they behave selflessly and trust while, because
these particular natures are not found in this purity.

This need, however, is the unity of the concept of the contradictory substantiality the individual
is subjected to moments in which the inconsistency and randomness of their actions arranges itself
and gets the game of their actions his seriousness and value in themselves. The content of
the world of the imagination plays for himself untied in the middle of its movement, gathered around
the individuality of a hero, but who are in its power and beauty Life feels broken and mourn
its early death, looking forward to.

Because the firm is in and real detail is excluded from the limb, and estranged in their moments,
who have not yet found and united. One individual, an abstract unreality is the need of the
life of the middle portion has not, any more than the other, the real individuals, the singer,
who holds him off and goes in his imagination. Both extremes should approach the website, the
one that has the need to deal with the of meeting content, the other, the language of the singer,
must have interest in him, and the themselves been communicated to the content and the certainty
of fixed determination of the negative get him.

These higher language, summarizes the tragedy, that is the distraction of the moments of the
essential and trading world closer together, the substance of the divine enters into the nature
of Term in their characters apart, and their motion is according to him also. In Respect of the
form hears the language in that it enters into the content on, tell to be, as the content is
an imagined. The hero himself is the talking and the idea shows the listener, who is also the
audience, self-confident people, their right and their purpose, the
power and the will know their determination and to say know.

They are Artists who do not like the common actions in real life accompanying language, unconscious,
of course, naive to express the exterior of your decision and start, but the express his inward
nature, prove the right of his action and the pathos, which they all belonged, free from accidental
circumstances, and generally of the specificity of the personalities in his Maintain prudent and
determined to express individuality. The existence of these characters are finite real people who create
the characters of the heroes, and those in real do not tell, but are speaking represent. So
essentially it is the Bildsaeule, be made by traffickers to, as much is the actor's mask - not
as an external condition, would have to abstract from the appreciation of art, or so far them in their
abstract, however, so this is just to say that the art the true real self yet contains within
it.

The common ground on which the movement of these figures generated from the tag is going, consciousness
is the first representational language and their selfless auseinandergelassnen Content. It is history
that the common people, whose wisdom in the chorus of age for language comes, it has its representatives
at its weakness, because it is itself only the positive and makes him passive material against trespassing
individuality of the government. The Power of the negative deprived, it is capable of the richness
and colorful abundance of divine Life does not hold together and tame, but lets it drift apart,
and praises every single moment as a God by yourself, now this, soon
another, In his adoring hymns.

But where the seriousness of the term, as with this design they are associated falls crashing,
feel, and it bekoemmt see how bad it's praised gods go, the venture on this ground on which the
concept exists, is it is not even the negative power that engages acting, but is within the selfless
Same thoughts, aware of the strange fate, and brings the empty desire of the Calming and soothing
the weak talk of the cause. In the fear of the higher powers, which the direct arms of the substance
are to each other before their fight, and before the Even the simple need that they, too, as
the living, which are attached to them, crushed - in the compassion for these, it also knows as
the same with itself, for it is only the prime of horrors this movement, the equally helpless
regret, and as the end of the empty silence of resignation to the need for their work not as the
necessary Action of the character and is recognized as the doing not of the absolute essence in
itself.

Step on to the onlooking consciousness as indifferent to the floor of the imagination the mind
in its non diffused variety, but in the simple dichotomy the concept to. Its substance is therefore
apparent torn apart only in its two extreme forces. These elemental beings are also generally
self-conscious individuality, - heroes, which set in one of these powers their consciousness, to
her the determination of the character have, and make up their operation and reality. - This
general individualization increases, recalls how, even down to the immediate reality of actual
existence, and represents an amount of spectators to the choir, or rather its counterpart their
own self-expression has imagination.

The content and the movement of the spirit, which is the subject, is already as the Nature and
implementation of the ethical substance have been considered. obtained in his religion he awareness about
themselves, or his consciousness, in its pure form and simple design dar. So if the moral substance
through their term, their Content according to which estranged the two powers, as the divine
and human, or underground and upper right was determined - that the family, this is the state
power - and that the former was the female, the other of the male character, was restricted
to the previously vielformige in its provisions and a fluctuating Goetterkreis to these powers,
the approximated by that provision of the actual individuality.

For the former Distraction of the whole in the multiple and abstract forces that appear to
substantiate, is the dissolution of the subject that they understand only as moments in its self,
and the Individuality is thus only the superficial form of that nature. Conversely, another Difference
of the characters referred to as the random and to be outward personality expected.

At the same time acting in accordance with the nature of its form or the knowledge. The acting
appears as a spirit Awareness of the object opposite to which it operates, and thus as the
negative of the Knowing is intended, the agent is thus in opposition of knowledge and ignorance.
He takes his character from his purpose, and knows him as the moral essence, but by the determination
of the character he knows only one power of substance, and the other for it is hidden. The present
reality is therefore a different degree of safety and another for awareness; the upper and
the lower right will in this respect Importance of knowing and recognizing self-revealing, and
the hiding and in ambush, lurking power. One is the bright side, the god of the oracle, after the his
natural moments from the sun illuminating everything sprung, all
white and disclosed - Phoebus, and Zeus, who is his father.

But the commands of this true speaking God and his announcements of what are rather deceptive.
Because this knowledge is in its concept directly ignorance, because awareness of themselves
in This opposition is acting. He who catch up with the enigmatic Sphinx itself able, as are the childlike
trust so by what God reveals to them, sent to their doom. This priest, from the beautiful
God speaks is nothing but than the ambiguous fate of sisters who drift through their promises
of a crime and the duplicity of what they stated as security, to reveal those related to Sense,
left betriegen. Therefore, the awareness is purer than the latter, which the Witches believe
and thoughtful and thorough than the former, that of the priestess and the beautiful Trust God,
to the revelation that the Spirit of the Father himself about the crime that it was murdered,
hesitates with revenge, and other evidence still held, - for the reason because this revealing
Spirit and the devil could be.

This distrust is founded reason that the knowing consciousness in the contrast between the
Certainty is of himself and the objective essence. The law of morality, that reality is nothing
in itself, in contrast with the absolute law, learns that one side his knowledge, his law is
the law of his character that only one Power of the substance seized. The story itself is this
perversion of the known in his Contrary, it is being, the turning of the law of nature and knowledge
in the right of the opposite, with the former is linked in the nature of the substance, - in the Furies
the other excited hostile power and character. This untr right sits with Zeus on the Throne
and enjoys the rights and parity of esteem for the knowing God reveal.

These three beings are restricted by the individuality of the acting Goetterwelt the choir. One is
the substance, as well the power of the outbreak and the spirit of
Familienpietaet as the general power of the state and the government.

By the substance as such, this Angehoert difference, he individualizes the idea what is distinguished
not two Figures, but has in reality the two persons of his characters. In contrast, the Difference
of knowledge and ignorance falls into each of the actual self-consciousness - and only in the
abstract, the elements of the general public it is distributed in two individual Figures. For
the self of the hero has only existence and consciousness as a whole is therefore essential
the only difference that angehoert the form, but its substance is determined, and it belongs it
is only one side of the difference of the contents. Therefore, given the two sides of the
Consciousness, which in reality is not a special, have each his own individuality, in the performance
each with its particular form, the one of the revealing God who the
other is hidden holding Erinys.

Both enjoy the same honor in part, in part, the form of the substance, Zeus, the need to respect both
to each other. The substance is the relationship that the knowledge is for himself, but his
truth to the simple, the Difference, which is the real sense, a reason to be repaid him the inner
Beings that has a clear assurance of knowing their confirmation to the oblivion.

The awareness of this conflict ended by the actions of, to reveal the knowledge acting, it experiences
the same fraud, and the content according to the attributes of a substance result, it hurt
the other, and this was the right result against them. The knowing Following God, but it took not the
evident, and atones for, the knowledge familiar to have its ambiguity, since it is his nature,
even for this there, and a warning there needed to be. The frenzy of the priestess, the inhuman
form of the witches Voice of the tree, the bird, the dream is not so on the ways in which the truth
appears, but warning signs of fraud, not prudence, the detail and Contingency of knowledge.
Or what is the same, the opposite power, which he is violated, is available as pronounced
law and the law, it is the law the family or the State, followed however the awareness and knowledge
are hid even the Obvious. But the truth of the mutually occurring forces of contents and consciousness
is the result that both the same right and therefore in their opposition, the action produces,
have the same injustice. The movement of doing is proving their unity
in the mutual destruction of both powers and the self-conscious characters.

 2 and 3 illustrate the general arrangement and details
of the machine designed by the writer and used for sinking the test piles in the tunnels. This
machine had been used originally on the New Jersey side on the test pile at Pier C, and the
adaption was not exactly as shown on these drawings, but if the screw-piles had been placed
in the tunnels, the arrangement shown would have been used.

Surveys, soundings, and borings were commenced in the latter part of 1901 on an assumed center
line of tunnels which was the center line of 32d Street extended westward.

The soundings were made from a float stage fastened to a tugboat, the location being determined
by transits on shore and the elevation by measuring from the surface of the water, a tide gauge
being continually observed and the time of soundings and gauge readings kept. If each
individual raises at least as a torch-bearer to present themselves white, it follows from the
one They show that the designed movement, the smooth development and strength of all liquid
Members is, - an animated living work of art that is paired with its beauty, the strength and
the jewelry, which the Bildsaeule was honored as the price of his strength, and honor among his
people instead of the stone God the highest physical representation of their being to be, is part
of.

In the two representations that have just occurred, is the unity of self-confidence and of the spiritual
being present, but they lack their balance. In the Bacchic Enthusiasm is the self outside
itself, in the beautiful physicality but the intellectual Beings. Those dullness of consciousness
and their wild stammering must clear the existence of , And the latter included the mindless clarity
of the latter in the inwardness of the former be. The more perfect element in which the inner life
as well as the outer externality internally, is again the language, but neither in its content
completely random and some of the oracle, nor the only sentient and each hymn sung in praise
God, nor the meaningless babble of Bacchic frenzy. But it has its clear and general Content produced;
its clear content, because the artist has quite substantial from the first Enthusiasm worked out to
figure in all his own feelings of self-conscious Infused soul and give to life is: - their general content,
because in this Fixed, the honor is of man disappears, the one-sidedness of Bildsaeulen, the
only a national spirit, a certain character of divinity mentioned.
 On the New York side the shaft
was as near as practicable to the line dividing the subaqueous iron-lined tunnels from the
land tunnels, and on the New Jersey side the shaft was placed centrally on the line of the
tunnels and on the nearest available ground to the river, while at the same time beyond the
other end of the river tunnels, thus necessitating driving the subaqueous tunnels only from
east and west to meet under the river. 

He created in this manner, the organic being as a relationship between two beings, and fixed
moments - an opposition, the two sides to him thus a part in the observation may seem to be another
part of its content in accordance with the contrast of the organic concept of purpose and express the
reality, because the concept is repaid as such because of a dark and superficial way in which
the idea has sunk into the unveiling. So we first see something under the Interior, the other
meant by the outer, and produced their relationship, the law that the outer is the expression
of the Interior.

This interior with its opposite, and considered their relationship to each other closer, shows that
the two sides of the first pre law no longer, as in previous laws are, where they appeared to
be by yourself all things as a special body, yet also for others so that the General have anywhere
else except the being's existence should. But the organic nature is not separated out at all
to reason, as the content of inner and outer, and for both the same, and the contrast is thus
only a purely formal, the real or the same check-in of her nature, but also by the Interior
and outer reality and also opposite one for observing various His , they seem to him a peculiar
meaning is given to each. This peculiar Content because it is the same substance or organic
unity, but in fact only a different form may be the same, and this is indicated by the observing
consciousness is to that the rule only is expression of the Interior .-- The same provisions of the
ratio, namely the independence of the various indifferent, and in it its unity, which they
disappear, we have seen in the concept of purpose.

It can be seen now is what form the inside and outside in their being. The interior as such,
must have as much an external being and a shape like the outside as such, for it is the subject
or present themselves as being and for the observation set.

The organic substance as the inner, it is the simple soul, the pure concept of purpose or the
universal, which remains in its division as general fluid, and therefore in its being represented
as the action or the motion of the vanishing reality appears, because however, the Outer opposite
to that existent in the interior of the rest being organic exists.
 The contract for this
work on the Terminal Station-West was let to the New York Contracting Company-Pennsylvania
Terminal, on April 28th, 1906, and included about 517,000 cu. yd. of excavation, about 87%
being rock, the construction of about 2,000 lin. ft. of retaining and face walls containing
about 18,500 cu. yd. of concrete, and a large quantity of structural steel (1,475,000 lb.)
for temporary use in underpinning Ninth Avenue. In this sense may
well be observed that a larger organic sensitive, or irritable, or Reproductive power is than another
- just as the sensibility of one of the USF Kind from that of another is different, one behaving
differently to certain stimuli than another, as the horse differently as compared to oat hay,
and the dog is different again against both, & c., much as can be observed as that body is
harder than a others, and so on .-- But these sensible qualities, hardness, color, and so on,
so as the phenomena of excitability for oats, the irritability for loads or the number and type
to give birth to boy, related to each other and compared, contradict much of a law. For the
determination of their sense of being consists in this, completely indifferent to exist against
each other, and the term entbundne freedom of nature rather than depict the unity of a relationship,
rather it unreasonable to and Herspielen on the ladder of random variable between Moments of the
concept itself as it

The other side to which the simple moments of the organic concept
with the moments the design would be compared, only the real law specify
what the true Outer pronounces as an impression of the Interior .--
Now, since those simple moments of penetrating liquid properties,
they have on the organic things no such retired real expression, as
that is what a single system of the form is called.

Or if the abstract idea of ​​the organism in those three words is truly just a matter of moments,
because they are just standing, but only moments of the concept and the movement, it is however,
as a design does not deal in those three particular systems, such as the anatomy sets them apart.
The extent that such systems found in their reality, and this Found to be legitimate, it must be remembered
also that the anatomy not only three similar systems, but much more has .-- E'en then apart
thereof shall at all mean sensitive system very different from what is called the nervous system,
so the irritable system different from the muscular system, reproductive system slightly differently
as the bowels of the reproduction. In the systems of the form as such, the organism according
to the abstract side of the dead existence conceived business, including its moments so received
anatomy and the carcass, not the knowledge and the living organism. As such Parts they have,
instead, aufgehoert to be, because they cease to be processes. Since the Being of the organism
much public or reflection in itself, then the His whole being as its moments do not exist
in an anatomical systems, but the true expression and its externality is present but only as
a movement which proceeds through the different parts of the design, and what what a single System
torn out and fixed, will constitute as much flowing moment, that is not the reality, how does
the anatomy they are considered as their reality may but it only as a process in which the anatomical
parts alone have any meaning.
 

The first form because it is direct, it is the abstract of the mind, and the Works are still
not in itself filled with the Spirit. The crystals of the pyramids and obelisks, simple connections
straight lines, smooth surfaces and the same conditions Parts where the incommensurability of
the rounds is destroyed, are the work of this Foreman of the strict form. To the sheer clarity
of form's sake it is not their significance in itself, not the spiritual self. The works thus
received only the Either in spirit itself, as an alien departed spirit, its lively penetration
leave with reality, even dead stop off in this life devoid of crystals, or - Externally, they refer
to him as to such, even the external and not as the spirit is there - as the rising light, which casts
its importance to them.

The separation, by initiating the working spirit of the being-in-itself, which becomes the substance,
he processed, and the for-itself-ness, which side of the working self-confidence is, he is in his
works become objective. Its too efforts must then To go aside, this separation of soul and
body, to clothe those in its own self and to design, animate this but. Both sides, by being brought
closer together, maintaining a degree of certainty of the proposed spirit and its surrounding sheath
against each other; its unity with itself contains this contrast of individuality and universality. By
the work in itself is approaching its sides, so this happens at the same time the others that
it naehertritt the working self-confidence, and that the knowledge of his, as in and of itself,
is reached in the works. As it was, it only makes only the abstract Since the activity of the
spirit, which are not in themselves or their content, but in his works, that's a thing that
white. The foreman himself, the whole spirit is still not published, but is the inward or hidden
thing being broken which as a whole, only in the active self-confidence and brought forth in
his subject, exist.

The surrounding housing so that external reality, the only first in the abstract form the mind
is raised, the working foreman of the animated form. He used the plant life as well, not that
more like the early powerless pantheism is holy, but from him that senses itself as the fuersichseiende
being taken as something useful and will be reset to the outside and ornament. However, it is not
used unchanged, but the workers also destroyed the self-conscious form of transience, which the
immediate existence of this life has in him, and approached his organic forms of the more general
and more like the thought. The organic form, which released in the special continued rampant,
in turn subjugated by the form of thought, on the other hand, does this straight forward and pave the
animated figures round, - a mixture which is the root of the free Architecture.

This apartment, the page of the general element or inorganic nature
of the mind now also includes a figure of the detail in itself, which
departed the first of the existence it internal or external naeherbringt
spirit of reality, and thus the work of the active self-consciousness
does the same.

The worker first takes the form of the for-itself-ness In general, the animal form. The fact
that he's not immediately aware of the wildlife , it proves the fact that he is against this constituted
as the productive force and in him than his work in white, making them both a superseded and
the hieroglyph another meaning, a thought.
 Fig. 12 is a typical
cross-section of the river tunnels as actually constructed.

During the investigations in the tunnels, borings were made to determine exactly the character
of the underlying material, and it was then found that the hard material noted in the preliminary
wash-borings was a layer of gravel and boulders overlying the rock. When the borings in the
tunnels reached this material it was found to be water-bearing and the head was about equivalent
to that of the river. It is a pervasive infection, which did not
previously indifferent to the element in which it insinuates itself as Opposite is noticeable,
and therefore can not be blocked. Only when the infection has spread, she is for awareness, which gave
her peace of mind. For While it was the simple and equal to it being what it received in themselves,
but also reflected in the simplicity of the negativity, which later also according to their
Nature unfolds in an opposite, and the consciousness By this means reminded of his former ways;
it is the term that is the simple knowledge that itself and its opposite at the same time, but the
white repealed in it as. Just as so pure insight for awareness , it has already spread, and the fight
against it betrays the accomplished infection; it is too late, and worse every means only the
disease, because it has the Mark of the spiritual life taken, namely the consciousness in
its concept and its underlying form, itself, there is therefore no power in it, which would
be about her. Because in essence itself is to let her have vereinzelnten REDUCE expressions and
the superficial Dampen symptoms. It is her this is most advantageous, for they not wasted now useless
the force, yet it shows itself unworthy of their nature, which is the case when in symptoms and
individual eruptions against the contents of faith and against the context of its external Reality
bursts forth.
 Since these moments can not have the importance made in opposition
to the lost morality for the purpose of being, they are here Although according to their unbiased
content, and the goal toward which they penetrate, is the moral Substance. But in our times that
form the same is closer, in which they appear, lost consciousness after his moral life and looking
for repeated those forms, they like more in the expression of this way are presented.
 They
were built almost entirely through trap rock. The contract was let on March 6th, 1905, to the
John Shields Construction Company, but was re-let on January 1st, 1906, to William Bradley,
the Shields Company having gone into the hands of a receiver. It is the becoming of itself, the circle that presupposes its end as its purpose and the
beginning has, and only by the execution and its end is real.

The life of God and divine cognition may thus well as with a play of love, themselves are given;
this idea to the edification and even drops down to blandness, if the seriousness, the suffering,
the patience and labor of the negative is missing. In itself, that is Farewell the unalloyed
equality and unity with itself, it is not serious in Otherness and alienation, this alienation
as the conquerors. But this In-itself is abstract universality, in which by its nature, for
to be, and is at all except that of the self-movement of the mold.