The children of course carried home accounts of what went on at school; and certain of the
parents complained to the school agent that their children were not learning properly. The
complaints continued, and finally the agent--his name was Moss--visited the schoolroom and
informed old Zack that he must leave.

"I don't think you have any right to be here," Moss said to him. "And you're giving trouble;
you raise such a disturbance that the children can't attend to their studies."

Old Zack appealed to Master Cobb, "Have I broken any of your rules?" he asked. The master could
not say that he had, intentionally.

"Haven't I studied?" old Zack asked.

"You certainly have," the master admitted, laughing.

But the school agent was firm. "You'll have to leave!" he exclaimed. "You're too old and too
big to come here!"

"All the same, I'm comin' here," said old Zack.

"We'll see about that!" cried Moss angrily. "The law is on my side!"

That was the beginning of what is still remembered as "the war at the Mills schoolhouse." The
agent appealed to the school board of the town, which consisted of three members,--two clergymen
and a lawyer,--and the following day the board appeared at the schoolhouse. After conferring
with the master, they proceeded formally to expel old Zack Lurvey from school.

Old Zack, however, hotly defended his right to get an education, and a wordy combat ensued.

"You're too old to draw school money," the lawyer informed him. "No money comes to you for
schooling after you are twenty-one, and you look to be three times as old as that!"

Thereupon old Zack drew out his pocketbook and laid down twenty dollars. "There is your money,"
said he. "I can pay my way."

"But you are too old to attend a district school," the lawyer insisted. "You can't go after
you are twenty-one."

"But I have never been," old Zack argued. "I never used up my right to go. I oughter have it now!"

"That isn't the point," declared the lawyer. "You're too old to go. Besides, we are informed
that you are keeping the lawful pupils from properly attending to their studies. You must pick
up your books and leave the schoolhouse."

Old Zack eyed him in silence. "I'm goin' to school, and I'm goin' here," he said at last.

That was defiance of the board's authority, and the lawyer--a young man--threw off his coat
and tried to eject the unruly pupil from the room; but to his chagrin he was himself ejected,
with considerable damage to his legal raiment. Returning from the door, old Zack offered opportunity
for battle to the reverend gentlemen--which they prudently declined. The lawyer re-entered,
covered with snow, for old Zack had dropped him into a drift outside.

Summoning his two colleagues and the schoolmaster to assist him in sustaining the constituted
authority, the lawyer once more advanced upon old Zack, who retreated to the far corner of
the room and bade them come on.

Many of the smaller pupils were now crying from fright; and the two clergymen, probably feeling
that the proceedings had become scandalous, persuaded their colleague to cease hostilities;
and in the end the board contented itself with putting a formal order of expulsion into writing.
School was then dismissed for that afternoon, and they all went away, leaving old Zack backed
into the corner of the room. But, regardless of his "expulsion," the next morning he came to
school again and resumed his arduous studies.

The story had gone abroad, and the whole community was waiting to see what would follow. The
school board appealed to the sheriff, who offered to arrest old Zack if the board would provide
him with a warrant. It seemed simple enough, at first, to draw a warrant for old Zack's arrest,
but legal difficulties arose. He could not well be taken for assault, for it was the lawyer
that had attacked him; or for wanton mischief, for his intent in going to school was not mischievous;
or yet for trespass, for he had offered to pay for his schooling.

There was no doubt that on account of his age he had no business in the school and that the
board had the right to refuse him schooling; yet it was not easy to word his offense in such
a way that it constituted a misdemeanor that could properly be stated in a warrant for his
arrest. Several warrants were drawn, all of which, on the ground that they were legally dubious,
the resident justice of the peace refused to sign.

"I am not going to get the town mixed up in a lawsuit for damages," said the justice. "Lurvey
is a doughty fighter at law, as well as physically, and he has got the money to fight with."

The proceedings hung fire for a week or more. The school board sent an order to the master
not to hear old Zack's lessons or to give him any instructions whatever. But the old fellow
came to school just the same, and poor Cobb had to get along with him as best he could. The
school board was not eager again to try putting him out by force, and it seemed that nothing
less than the state militia could oust him from the schoolhouse; and that would need an order
from the governor of the state! On the whole, public opinion rather favored his being allowed
to pay his tuition and to go to school if he felt the need of it.

At any rate, he went to school there all winter and made remarkable progress. In the course
of ten weeks he could read slowly, and he knew most of the short words in his primer and second
reader by sight. Longer words he would not try to pronounce, but called them, each and all,
"jackass" as fast as he came to them.

In consequence his reading aloud was highly ambiguous. He could write his name slowly and with
many grimaces.

Figures, for some reason, came much easier to him than the alphabet. He learned the numerals
in a few days, and by the fifth or sixth week of school he could add and subtract on his slate.
But the multiplication table gave him serious trouble. The only way he succeeded in learning
it at all was by singing it. After he began to do sums in multiplication on his slate, he was
likely to burst forth singing in school hours:

    "Seven times eight are fifty-six
      --and carry five.
    Seven times nine are sixty-three
      --and carry seven.
      No, no, no, no, carry six!"

"But, Mr. Lurvey, you must keep quiet in school!" the afflicted master remonstrated for the
hundredth time. "No one else can study."

"But I can't!" old Zack would reply. "'Twouldn't come to me 'less I sung it!"

Toward the last weeks of the term he was able to multiply with considerable accuracy and to
divide in short division. Long division he did not attempt, but he rapidly learned to cast
interest at six per cent. He had had a way of arriving at that with beans, before he came to
school; and no one had ever succeeded in cheating him. He knew about interest money, he said,
by "sense of feeling."

Grammar he saw no use for, and did not bother himself with it; but, curiously enough, he was
delighted with geography and toward the end of the term bought a copy of Cornell's text-book,
which was then used in Maine schools.

What most interested him was to trace rivers on the maps and to learn their names. Cities he
cared nothing for; but he loved to learn about the mountain ranges where pine and spruce grew.

"What places them would be for sawmills!" he exclaimed.

Much as he liked his new geography, however, he had grown violently angry over the first lesson
and declared with strong language that it was all a lie! The master had read aloud to him the
first lesson, which describes the earth as one of the planets that revolve round the sun, and
which says that it is a globe or sphere, turning on its axis once in twenty-four hours and
so causing day and night.

Old Zack listened incredulously. "I don't believe a word of that!" he declared flatly.

The master labored with him for some time, trying to convince him that the earth is round and
moves, but it was quite in vain.

"No such thing!" old Zack exclaimed. "I know better! That's the biggest lie that ever was told!"

He quite took it to heart and continued talking about it after school. He really seemed to
believe that a great and dangerous delusion had gone abroad.

"It's wrong," he said, "puttin' sich stuff as that into young ones' heads. It didn't oughter
be 'lowed!"

What old Zack was saying about the earth spread abroad and caused a great deal of amusement.
Certain waggish persons began to "josh" him and others tried to argue with him, but all such
attempts merely roused his native obstinacy. One Sunday evening he gave a somewhat wrong direction
to the weekly prayer meeting by rising to warn the people that their children were being taught
a pack of lies; and such was his vehemence that the regular Sabbath service resolved itself
into a heated debate on the contour of the earth.

Perhaps old Zack believed that, as a recently educated man, it had become his duty to set things
right in the public mind.

The day before school closed he went to his late antagonist, the lawyer on the school board,
and again offered to pay the twenty dollars for his tuition. After formally expelling him from
school, however, the board did not dare to accept the money, and old Zack gave it to the long-suffering
Master Cobb.

CHAPTER VI

THE SAD ABUSE OF OLD MEHITABLE

About this time there occurred a domestic episode with which Halstead was imperishably connected
in the family annals.

In those days the family butter was churned in the kitchen by hand power, and often laboriously,
in an upright dasher churn which Addison and Theodora had christened Old Mehitable. The butter
had been a long time coming one morning; but finally the cream which for an hour or more had
been thick, white and mute beneath the dasher strokes began to swash in a peculiar way, giving
forth after each stroke a sound that they thought resembled, Mehitable--Mehitable--Mehitable.

That old churn was said to be sixty-six years old even then. There was little to wear out in
the old-fashioned dasher churns, made as they were of well-seasoned pine or spruce, with a
"butter cup" turned from a solid block of birch or maple, and the dasher staff of strong white
ash. One of them sometimes outlasted two generations of housewives; they were simple, durable
and easily kept clean, but hard to operate.

Our acquaintance with Mehitable had begun very soon after our arrival at the old farm. I remember
that one of the first things the old Squire said to us was, "Boys, now that our family is so
largely increased, I think that you will have to assist your grandmother with the dairy work,
particularly the churning, which comes twice a week."

Tuesdays and Fridays were the churning days, and on those mornings I remember that we were
wont to peer into the kitchen as we came to breakfast and mutter the unwelcome tidings to one
another that old Mehitable was out there waiting--tidings followed immediately by two gleeful
shouts of, "It isn't my turn!"--and glum looks from the one of us whose unfortunate lot it
was to ply the dasher.

Addison, I recollect, used to take his turn without much demur or complaint, and he had a knack
of getting through with it quickly as a rule, especially in summer. None of us had much trouble
during the warm season. It was in November, December and January, when cold cream did not properly
"ripen" and the cows were long past their freshening, that those protracted, wearying sessions
at the churn began. Then, indeed, our annual grievance against grandmother Ruth burst forth
afresh. For, like many another veteran housewife, the dear old lady was very "set" on having
her butter come hard, and hence averse to raising the temperature of the cream above fifty-six
degrees. Often that meant two or three hours of hard, up-and-down work at the churn.

In cold weather, too, the cream sometimes "swelled" in the churn, becoming so stiff as to render
it nearly impossible to force the dasher through it; and we would lift the entire churn from
the floor in our efforts to work it up and down. At such times our toes suffered, and we were
wont to call loudly for Theodora and Ellen to come and hold the churn down, a task that they
undertook with misgivings.

What exasperated us always was the superb calmness with which grandmother Ruth viewed those
struggles, going placidly on with her other duties as if our woes were all in the natural order
of the universe. The butter, eggs and poultry were her perquisites in the matter of farm products,
and we were apt to accuse her of hard-heartedness in her desire to make them yield income.

Addison, I remember, had a prop that he inserted and drove tight with a mallet between a beam
overhead and the top of the churn when the cream "swelled"; but neither Halstead nor I was
ever able to adjust the prop skillfully enough to keep it from falling down on our heads.

And we suspected Addison of pouring warm water into the churn when grandmother's back was turned,
though we never actually caught him at it. Sometimes when he churned, the butter "came" suspiciously
soft, to grandmother's great dissatisfaction, since she had special customers for her butter
at the village and was proud of its uniform quality.

With the kindly aid of the girls, especially Ellen, I usually got through my turn after a fashion.
I was crafty enough to keep their sympathy and good offices enlisted on my side.

But poor Halstead! There was pretty sure to be a rumpus every time his turn came. Nature, indeed,
had but poorly fitted him for churning, or, in fact, for any form of domestic labor that required
sustained effort and patience. He had a kind heart; but his temper was stormy. When informed
that his turn had come to churn, he almost always disputed it hotly. Afterwards he was likely
to fume a while and finally go about the task in so sullen a mood that the girls were much
inclined to leave him to his own devices. Looking back at our youthful days, I see plainly
now that we were often uncharitable toward Halstead. He was, I must admit, a rather difficult
boy to get on with, hasty of temper and inclined to act recklessly. There were no doubt physical
causes for those defects; but Addison and I thought he might do better if he pleased. He and
Addison were about the same age, and I was two and a half years younger. Halstead, in fact,
was slightly taller than Addison, but not so strong. His complexion was darker and not so clear;
and I imagine that he was not so healthy. Once, I remember, when Dr. Green from the village
was at the house, he cast a professional eye on us three boys and remarked, "That dark boy's
blood isn't so good as that of the other two," a remark that Halstead appears to have overheard.

None the less, he was strong enough to work when he chose, though he complained constantly
and shirked when he could.

On the Friday morning referred to, it had come Halstead's turn "to stand up with old Mehitable,"
as Ellen used to say; and after the usual heated argument he had set about it out in the kitchen
in a particularly wrathy mood. It was snowing outside. The old Squire had driven to the village;
and, after doing the barn chores, Addison had retired to the sitting-room to cipher out two
or three hard sums in complex fractions while I had seized the opportunity to read a book of
Indian stories that Tom Edwards had lent me. After starting the churning, grandmother Ruth,
assisted by the girls, was putting in order the bedrooms upstairs.

Through a crack of the unlatched door that led to the kitchen, we heard Halstead churning casually,
muttering to himself and plumping the old churn about the kitchen floor. Several times he had
shouted for the girls to come and help him hold it down; and presently we heard him ordering
Nell to bid grandmother Ruth pour hot milk into the churn.

"It's as cold as ice!" he cried. "It never will come in the world till it is warmed up! Here
I have churned for two hours, steady, and no signs of the butter's coming--and it isn't my
turn either!"

We had heard Halstead run on so much in that same strain, however, that neither Addison nor
I paid much attention to it.

Every few moments, however, he continued shouting for some one to come and help; and presently,
when grandma Ruth came downstairs for a moment to see how matters were going on, we heard him
pleading angrily with her to pour in hot milk.

"Make the other boys come and help!" he cried after her as she was calmly returning upstairs.
"Make them come and churn a spell. Their blood is better'n mine!"

"Oh, I guess your blood is good enough," the old lady replied, laughing.

Silence for a time followed that last appeal. Halstead seemed to have resigned himself to his
task. Addison's pencil ciphered away; and I grew absorbed in Colter's flight from the Indians.

Before long, however, a pungent odor, as of fat on a hot stove, began to pervade the house.
Addison looked up and sniffed. Just then we heard Theodora race suddenly down the hall stairs,
speed to the other door of the kitchen, then cry out and go flying back upstairs. An instant
later she and Ellen rushed down, with grandmother Ruth hard after them. Evidently something
was going wrong. Addison and I made for the kitchen door, for we heard grandmother exclaim
in tones of deepest indignation, "O you Halstead! What have you done!"

Halstead had set the old churn on top of the hot stove, placed a chair close against it, and
was standing on the chair, churning with might and main.

His head, as he plied the dasher, was almost touching the ceiling; his face was as red as a
beet. He had filled the stove with dry wood, and the bottom of the churn was smoking; the chimes
were warping out of their grooves, and cream was leaking on the stove. The kitchen reeked with
the smoke and odor.

After one horrified glance, grandmother rushed in, snatched the churn off the stove and bore
it to the sink. Her indignation was too great for "Christian words," as the old lady sometimes
expressed it in moments of great domestic provocation. "Get the slop pails," she said in low
tones to Ellen and Theodora. "'Tis spoiled. The whole churning is smoked and spoiled--and the
churn, too!"

Halstead, meantime, was getting down from the chair, still very hot and red. "Well, I warmed
the old thing up once!" he muttered defiantly. "'Twas coming, too. 'Twould have come in one
minute more!"

But neither grandmother nor the girls vouchsafed him another look. After a glance round, Addison
drew back, shutting the kitchen door, and resumed his pencil. He shook his head sapiently to
me, but seemed to be rocked by internal mirth. "Now, wasn't that just like Halse?" he muttered
at length.

"What do you think the old Squire will say to this?" I hazarded.

"Oh, not much, I guess," Addison replied, going on with his problem. "The old gentleman doesn't
think it is of much use to talk to him. Halse, you know, flies all to pieces if he is reproved."

In point of fact I do not believe the old Squire took the matter up with Halstead at all. He
did not come home until afternoon, and no one said much to him about what had happened during
the morning.

But we had to procure a new churn immediately for the following Tuesday. Old Mehitable was
totally ruined. The bottom and the lower ends of the chimes were warped and charred beyond repair.

Largely influenced by Addison's advice, grandmother Ruth consented to the purchase of one of
the new crank churns. For a year or more he had been secretly cogitating a scheme to avoid
so much tiresome work when churning; and a crank churn, he foresaw, would lend itself to such
a project much more readily than a churn with an upright dasher. It was a plan that finally
took the form of a revolving shaft overhead along the walk from the kitchen to the stable,
where it was actuated by a light horse-power. Little belts descending from this shaft operated
not only the churn but a washing machine, a wringer, a corn shelter, a lathe and several other
machines with so much success and saving of labor that even grandmother herself smiled approvingly.

"And that's all due to me!" Halstead used to exclaim once in a while. "If I hadn't burnt up
that old churn, we would be tugging away at it to this day!"

"Yes, Halse, you are a wonderful boy in the kitchen!" Ellen would remark roguishly.

CHAPTER VII

BEAR-TONE

One day about the first of February, Catherine Edwards made the rounds of the neighborhood
with a subscription paper to get singers for a singing school. A veteran "singing master"--Seth
Clark, well known throughout the country--had offered to give the young people of the place
a course of twelve evening lessons or sessions in vocal music, at four dollars per evening;
and Catherine was endeavoring to raise the sum of forty-eight dollars for this purpose.

Master Clark was to meet us at the district schoolhouse for song sessions of two hours, twice
a week, on Tuesday and Friday evenings at seven o'clock. Among us at the old Squire's we signed
eight dollars.

The singing school did not much interest me personally, for the reason that I did not expect
to attend. As the Frenchman said when invited to join a fox hunt, I had been. Two winters previously
there had been a singing school in an adjoining school district, known as "Bagdad," where along
with others I had presented myself as a candidate for vocal culture, and had been rejected
on the grounds that I lacked both "time" and "ear." What was even less to my credit, I had
been censured as being concerned in a disturbance outside the schoolhouse. That was my first
winter in Maine, and the teacher at that singing school was not Seth Clark, but an itinerant
singing master widely known as "Bear-Tone."

As opportunities for musical instruction thereabouts were limited, the old Squire, who loved
music and who was himself a fair singer, had advised us to go. Five of us, together with our
two young neighbors, Kate and Thomas Edwards, drove over to Bagdad in a three-seated pung sleigh.

The old schoolhouse was crowded with young people when we arrived, and a babel of voices burst
on us as we drew rein at the door. After helping the girls from the pung, Addison and I put
up the horses at a farmer's barn near by. When we again reached the schoolhouse, a gigantic
man in an immense, shaggy buffalo coat was just coming up. He entered the building a step behind
us.

It was Bear-Tone; and a great hush fell on the young people as he appeared in the doorway.
Squeezing hurriedly into seats with the others, Addison and I faced round. Bear-Tone stood
in front of the teacher's desk, near the stovepipe, rubbing his huge hands together, for the
night was cold. He was smiling, too--a friendly, genial smile that seemed actually to brighten
the room.

If he had looked gigantic to us in the dim doorway, he now looked colossal. In fact, he was
six feet five inches tall and three feet across the shoulders. He had legs like mill-posts
and arms to match; he wore big mittens, because he could not buy gloves large enough for his
hands. He was lean and bony rather than fat, and weighed three hundred and twenty pounds, it
was said.

His face was big and broad, simple and yet strong; it was ringed round from ear to ear with
a short but very thick sandy beard. His eyes were blue, his hair, like his beard, was sandy.
He was almost forty years old and was still a bachelor.

"Wal, young ones," he said at last, "reckonin' trundle-bed trash, there's a lot of ye, ain't
there?"

His voice surprised me. From such a massive man I had expected to hear a profound bass. Yet
his voice was not distinctly bass, it was clear and flexible. He could sing bass, it is true,
but he loved best to sing tenor, and in that part his voice was wonderfully sweet.

As his speech at once indicated, he was an ignorant man. He had never had musical instruction;
he spoke of soprano as "tribble," of alto as "counter," and of baritone as "bear-tone"--a mispronunciation
that had given him his nickname.

But he could sing! Melody was born in him, so to speak, full-fledged, ready to sing. Musical
training would have done him no good, and it might have done him harm. He could not have sung
a false note if he had tried; discord really pained him.

"Wal, we may's well begin," he said when he had thoroughly warmed his hands. "What ye got for
singin' books here? Dulcimers, or Harps of Judah? All with Harps raise yer right hands. So.
Now all with Dulcimers, left hands. So. Harps have it. Them with Dulcimers better get Harps,
if ye can, 'cause we want to sing together. But to-night we'll try voices. I wouldn't wonder
if there might be some of ye who might just as well go home and shell corn as try to sing."
And he laughed. "So in the first place we'll see if you can sing, and then what part you can
sing, whether it's tribble, or counter, or bass, or tenor. The best way for us to find out
is to have you sing the scale--the notes of music. Now these are the notes of music." And without
recourse to tuning fork he sang:

"Do, re, mi, fa, sol, la, si, do."

The old schoolhouse seemed to swell to the mellow harmony from his big throat. To me those
eight notes, as Bear-Tone sang them, were a sudden revelation of what music may be.

"I'll try you first, my boy," he then said, pointing to Newman Darnley, a young fellow about
twenty years old who sat at the end of the front row of seats. "Step right out here."

Greatly embarrassed, Newman shambled forth and, turning, faced us.

"Now, sir," said the master, "catch the key-note from me. Do! Now re--mi," and so forth.

Bear-Tone had great difficulty in getting Newman through the scale. "'Fraid you never'll make
a great singer, my boy," he said, "but you may be able to grumble bass a little, if you prove
to have an ear that can follow. Next on that seat."

The pupil so designated was a Bagdad boy named Freeman Knights. He hoarsely rattled off, "Do,
re, mi, fa, sol," all on the same tone. When Bear-Tone had spent some moments in trying to
make him rise and fall on the notes, he exclaimed:

"My dear boy, you may be able to drive oxen, but you'll never sing. It wouldn't do you any
good to stay here, and as the room is crowded the best thing you can do is to run home."

Opening the door, he gave Freeman a friendly pat on the shoulder and a push into better air
outside.

Afterwards came Freeman's sister, Nellie Knights; she could discern no difference between do
and la--at which Bear-Tone heaved a sigh.

"Wai, sis, you'll be able to call chickens, I guess, because that's all on one note, but 'twouldn't
be worth while for you to try to sing, or torment a pianner. There are plenty of girls tormentin'
pianners now. I guess you'd better go home, too; it may come on to snow."

Nellie departed angrily and slammed the door. Bear-Tone looked after her. "Yes," he said, "'tis
kind of hard to say that to a girl. Don't wonder she's a little mad. And yet, that's the kindest
thing I can do. Even in Scripter there was the sheep and the goats; the goats couldn't sing,
and the sheep could; they had to be separated."

He went on testing voices and sending the "goats" home. Some of the "goats," however, lingered
round outside, made remarks and peeped in at the windows. In an hour their number had grown
to eighteen or twenty.

Dreading the ordeal, I slunk into a back seat. I saw my cousin, Addison, who had a fairly good
voice, join the "sheep," and then Theodora, Ellen, Kate and Thomas; but I could not escape
the ordeal forever, and at last my turn came. When Bear-Tone bade me sing the scale, fear so
constricted my vocal cords that I squealed rather than sang.

"Sonny, there's lots of things a boy can do besides sing," Bear-Tone said as he laughingly
consigned me to the outer darkness. "It's no great blessing, after all." He patted my shoulder.
"I can sing a little, but I've never been good for much else. So don't you feel bad about it."

But I did feel bad, and, joining the "goats" outside, I helped to organize a hostile demonstration.
We began to march round the schoolhouse, howling Yankee Doodle. Our discordant noise drew a
prompt response. The door opened and Bear-Tone's huge form appeared.

"In about one harf of one minute more I'll be out there and give ye a lesson in Yankee Doodle!"
he cried, laughing. His tone sounded good-natured; yet for some reason none of us thought it
best to renew the disturbance.

Most of the "goats" dispersed, but, not wishing to walk home alone, I hung round waiting for
the others. One window of the schoolroom had been raised, and through that I watched proceedings.
Bear-Tone had now tested all the voices except one, and his face showed that he had not been
having a very pleasant time. Up in the back seat there still remained one girl, Helen Thomas,
who had, according to common report, a rather good voice; yet she was so modest that few had
ever heard her either sing or recite.

I saw her come forward, when the master beckoned, and sing her do, re, mi. Bear-Tone, who had
stood waiting somewhat apathetically, came suddenly to attention. "Sing that again, little
girl," he said.

Encouraged by his kind glance, Helen again sang the scale in her clear voice. A radiant look
overspread Bear-Tone's big face.

"Wal, wal!" he cried. "But you've a voice, little one! Sing that with me."

Big voice and girl's voice blended and chorded.

"Ah, but you will make a singer, little one!" Bear-Tone exclaimed. "Now sing Woodland with
me. Never mind notes, sing by ear."

A really beautiful volume of sound came through the window at which I listened. Bear-Tone and
his new-found treasure sang The Star-Spangled Banner and several of the songs of the Civil
War, then just ended--ballads still popular with us and fraught with touching memories: Tenting
To-night on the Old Camp Ground, Dearest Love, Do You Remember? and Tramp, Tramp, Tramp, the
Boys Are Marching. Bear-Tone's rich voice chorded beautifully with Helen's sweet, high notes.

As we were getting into the pung to go home after the meeting, and Helen and her older sister,
Elizabeth, were setting off, Bear-Tone dashed out, bareheaded, with his big face beaming.

"Be sure you come again," he said to her, in a tone that was almost imploring. "You can sing!
Oh, you can sing! I'll teach you! I'll teach you!"

The singing school that winter served chiefly as a pretty background for Bear-Tone's delight
in Helen Thomas's voice, the interest he took in it, and the untiring efforts he made to teach her.

"One of the rarest of voices!" he said to the old Squire one night when he had come to the
farmhouse on one of his frequent visits. "Not once will you find one in fifty years. It's a
deep tribble. Why, Squire, that girl's voice is a discovery! And it will grow in her, Squire!
It is just starting now, but by the time she's twenty-five it will come out wonderful."

The soprano of the particular quality that Bear-Tone called "deep tribble" is that sometimes
called a "falcon" soprano, or dramatic soprano, in distinction from light soprano. It is better
known and more enthusiastically appreciated by those proficient in music than by the general
public. Bear-Tone, however, recognized it in his new pupil, as if from instinct.

The other pupils were somewhat neglected that winter; but no one complained, for it was such
a pleasure to hear Bear-Tone and Helen sing. Many visitors came; and once the old Squire attended
a meeting, in order to hear Bear-Tone's remarkable pupil. In Days of Old when Knights were
Bold, dear old Juanita, and Roll on, Silver Moon, were some of their favorite songs, Still
a "goat," and always a "goat," I am not capable of describing music; but school and visitors
sat enchanted when Helen and Bear-Tone sang.

Helen's parents were opposed to having their daughter become a professional singer. They were
willing that she should sing in church and at funerals, but not in opera. For a long time Bear-Tone
labored to convince them that a voice like Helen's has a divine mission in the world, to please,
to touch and to ennoble the hearts of the people.

At last he induced them to let him take Helen to Portland, in order that a well-known teacher
there might hear her sing and give an opinion. Bear-Tone was to pay the expenses of the trip
himself.

The city teacher was enthusiastic over the girl and urged that she be given opportunity for
further study; but in view of the opposition at home that was not easily managed. But Bear-Tone
would not be denied. He sacrificed the scanty earnings of a whole winter's round of singing
schools in country school districts to send her to the city for a course of lessons.

The next year the question of her studying abroad came up. If Helen were to make the most of
her voice, she must have it trained by masters in Italy and Paris. Her parents were unwilling
to assist her to cross the ocean.

Bear-Tone was a poor man; his singing schools never brought him more than a few hundred dollars
a year. He owned a little house in a neighboring village, where he kept "bachelor's hall";
he had a piano, a cabinet organ, a bugle, a guitar and several other musical instruments, including
one fairly valuable old violin from which he was wont of an evening to produce wonderfully
sweet, sad strains.

No one except the officials of the local savings bank knew how Bear-Tone raised the money for
Helen Thomas's first trip abroad, but he did it. Long afterwards people learned that he had
mortgaged everything he possessed, even the old violin, in order to provide the necessary money.

Helen went to Europe and studied for two years. She made her début at Milan, sang in several
of the great cities on the Continent, and at last, with a reputation as a great singer fully
established, returned home four years later to sing in New York.

Bear-Tone meanwhile was teaching his singing schools, as usual, in the rural districts of Maine.
Once or twice during those two years of study he had managed to send a little money to Helen,
to help out with the expenses. Now he postponed his three bi-weekly schools for one week and
made his first and only trip to New York--the journey of a lifetime. Perhaps he had at first
hoped that he might meet her and be welcomed. If so, he changed his mind on reaching the metropolis.
Aware of his uncouthness, he resolved not to shame her by claiming recognition. But he went
three times to hear her sing, first in Aïda, then in Faust, and afterwards in Les Huguenots;
heard her magic notes, saw her in all her queenly beauty--but saw her from the shelter of a
pillar in the rear of the great opera house. On the fifth day he returned home as quietly as
he had gone.

Perhaps a month after he came back, while driving to one of his singing schools on a bitter
night in February, he took a severe cold. For lack of any proper care at his little lonesome,
chilly house, his cold a day or two later turned into pneumonia, and from that he died.

The savings bank took the house and the musical instruments. The piano, the organ, the old
violin and other things were sold at auction. And probably Helen Thomas, whose brilliant career
he had made possible, never heard anything about the circumstances of his death.

CHAPTER VIII

WHEN WE HUNTED THE STRIPED CATAMOUNT

The following week Tom Edwards and I had a somewhat exciting adventure which, however, by no
means covered us with glory. During the previous winter and, indeed, for several winters before
that, there had been rumors current of a strange, fierce animal which came down, from the "great
woods" to devour dead lambs that were cast forth from the farmers' barns in February and March.

At that time nearly every farmer in the vicinity kept a flock of from fifty to a hundred sheep.
During the warm season the animals got their own living in the back pastures; in winter they
were fed on nothing better than hay. The animals usually came out in the spring thin and weak,
with the ewes in poor condition to raise their lambs. In consequence, many of the lambs died
soon after birth, and were thrown out on the snow for the crows and wild animals to dispose of.

The old Squire had begun to feed corn to his flock during the latter part of the winter, and
urged his neighbors to do so; but many of them did not have the corn and preferred to let nature
take its course.

The mysterious animal that the boys were talking about seemed to have formed the habit of visiting
that region every spring. Not even the older people knew to what species it belonged. It came
round the barns at night, and no one had ever seen it distinctly. Some believed it to be a
catamount or panther; others who had caught glimpses of it said that it was a black creature
with white stripes.

Traps had been set for it, but always without success. Mr. Wilbur, one of the neighbors, had
watched from his barn and fired a charge of buckshot at it; but immediately the creature had
disappeared in the darkness, carrying off a lamb. It visited one place or another nearly every
night for a month or more--as long, indeed, as the supply of lambs held out. Then it would
vanish until the following spring.

On the day above referred to I saw Tom coming across the snowy fields that lay between the
Edwards' farm and the old Squire's. Guessing that he had something to tell me, I hastened forth
to meet him.

"That old striped catamount has come round again!" Tom exclaimed. "He was at Batchelder's last
night and got two dead lambs. And night before last he was at Wilbur's. I've got four dead
lambs saved up. And old Hughy Glinds has told me a way to watch for him and shoot him."

Hughy Glinds was a rheumatic old man who lived in a small log house up in the edge of the great
woods and made baskets for a living. In his younger days he had been a trapper and was therefore
a high authority in such matters among the boys.

"We shall have to have a sleigh or a pung to watch from," Tom explained. "Old Hughy says to
carry out a dead lamb and leave it near the bushes below our barn, and to haul a sleigh there
and leave it a little way off, and do this for three or four nights till old Striped gets used
to seeing the sleigh. Then, after he has come four nights, we're to go there early in the evening
and hide in the sleigh, with a loaded gun. Old Striped will be used to seeing the sleigh there,
and won't be suspicious.

"Pa don't want me to take our sleigh so long," Tom went on. "He wants to use it before we'd
be through with it. But"--and I now began to see why Tom had been so willing to share with
me the glory of killing the marauder--"there's an old sleigh out here behind your barn. Nobody
uses it now. Couldn't we take that?"

I felt sure that the old Squire would not care, but I proposed to ask the opinion of Addison.
Tom opposed our taking Addison into our confidence.

"He's older, and he'd get all the credit for it," he objected.

Addison, moreover, had driven to the village that morning; and after some discussion we decided
to take the sleigh on our own responsibility. It was partly buried in a snowdrift; but we dug
it out, and then drew it across the fields on the snow crust--lifting it over three stone walls--to
a little knoll below the Edwards barn.

We concluded to lay the dead lamb on the top of the knoll at a little distance from the woods;
the sleigh we left on the southeast side about fifteen paces away. Tom thought that he could
shoot accurately at that distance, even at night.

For my own part I thought fifteen paces much too near. Misgivings had begun to beset me.

"What if you miss him, Tom?" I said.

"I shan't miss him," he declared firmly.

"But, Tom, what if you only wounded him and he came rushing straight at us?"

"Oh, I'll fix him!" Tom exclaimed. But I had become very apprehensive; and at last, Tom helped
me to bring cedar rails and posts from a fence near by to construct a kind of fortress round
the sleigh. We set the posts in the hard snow and made a fence, six rails high--to protect
ourselves. Even then I was afraid it might jump the fence.

"He won't jump much with seven buckshot and a ball in him!" said Tom.

We left the empty sleigh there for three nights in succession; and every morning Tom came over
to tell me that the lamb had been taken.

"The plan works just as old Hughy told me it would," he said; "but I've got only one lamb more,
so we'll have to watch to-night. Don't tell anybody, but about bedtime you come over." Tom
was full of eagerness.

I was in a feverish state of mind all day, especially as night drew on. If I had not been ashamed
to fail Tom, I think I should have backed out. At eight o'clock I pretended to start for bed;
then, stealing out at the back door, I hurried across the fields to the Edwards place. A new
moon was shining faintly over the woods in the west.

Tom was in the wood-house, loading the gun, an old army rifle, bored out for shot. "I've got
in six fingers of powder," he whispered.

We took a buffalo skin and a horse blanket from the stable, and armed with the gun, and an
axe besides, proceeded cautiously out to the sleigh. Tom had laid the dead lamb on the knoll.

Climbing over the fence, we ensconced ourselves in the old sleigh. It was a chilly night, with
gusts of wind from the northwest. We laid the axe where it would be at hand in case of need;
and Tom trained the gun across the fence rail in the direction of the knoll.

"Like's not he won't come till toward morning," he whispered; "but we must stay awake and keep
listening for him. Don't you go to sleep."

I thought that sleep was the last thing I was likely to be guilty of. I wished myself at home.
The tales I had heard of the voracity and fierceness of the striped catamount were made much
more terrible by the darkness. My position was so cramped and the old sleigh so hard that I
had to squirm occasionally; but every time I did so, Tom whispered:

"Sh! Don't rattle round. He may hear us."

An hour or two, which seemed ages long, dragged by; the crescent moon sank behind the tree-tops
and die night darkened. At last, in spite of myself, I grew drowsy, but every few moments I
started broad awake and clutched the handle of the axe. Several times Tom whispered:

"I believe you're asleep."

"I'm not!" I protested.

"Well, you jump as if you were," he retorted.

By and by Tom himself started spasmodically, and I accused him of having slept; but he denied
it in a most positive whisper. Suddenly, in an interval between two naps, I heard a sound different
from the soughing of the wind, a sound like claws or toenails scratching on the snow crust.
It came from the direction of the knoll, or beyond it.

"Tom, Tom, he's coming!" I whispered.

Tom, starting up from a nap, gripped the gunstock. "Yes, siree," he said. "He is." He cocked
the gun, and the barrel squeaked faintly on the rail. "By jinks, I see him!"

I, too, discerned a shadowy, dark object at the top of the snow-crusted knoll. Tom was twisting
round to get aim across the rail--and the next instant both of us were nearly kicked out of
the sleigh by the recoil of the greatly overloaded gun. We both scrambled to our feet, for
we heard an ugly snarl. I think the animal leaped upward; I was sure I saw something big and
black rise six feet in the air, as if it were coming straight for the sleigh!

The instinct of self-preservation is a strong one. The first thing I realized I was over the
fence rails, on the side toward the Edwards barn, running for dear life on the snow crust--and
Tom was close behind me! We never stopped, even to look back, till we were at the barn and
round the farther corner of it. There we pulled up to catch our breath. Nothing was pursuing
us, nor could we hear anything.

After we had listened a while, Tom ran into the house and waked his father. Mr. Edwards, however,
was slow to believe that we had hit the animal, and refused to dress and go out. It was now
about two o'clock. I did not like to go home alone, and so went to bed with Tom. In consequence
of our vigils we slept till sunrise. Meanwhile, on going out to milk, Tom's father had had
the curiosity to visit the scene of our adventure. A trail of blood spots leading from the
knoll into the woods convinced him that we had really damaged the prowler; and picking up the
axe that I had dropped, he followed the trail. Large red stains at intervals showed that the
animal had stopped frequently to grovel on the snow. About half a mile from the knoll, Mr.
Edwards came upon the beast, in a fir thicket, making distressful sounds, and quite helpless
to defend itself. A blow on the head from the poll of the axe finished the creature; and, taking
it by the tail, Mr. Edwards dragged it to the house. The carcass was lying in the dooryard
when Tom's mother waked us.

"Get up and see your striped catamount!" she called up the chamber stairs.

Hastily donning our clothes we rushed down. Truth to say, the "monster" of so many startling
stories was somewhat disappointing to contemplate. It was far from being so big as we had thought
it in the night--indeed, it was no larger than a medium-sized dog. It had coarse black hair
with two indistinct, yellowish-white stripes, or bands, along its sides. Its legs were short,
but strong, its claws white, hooked and about an inch and a quarter long. The head was broad
and flat, and the ears were low and wide apart. It was not in the least like a catamount. In
short, it was, as the reader may have guessed, a wolverene, or glutton, an animal rarely seen
in Maine even by the early settlers, for its habitat is much farther north.

As Tom and I stood looking the creature over, my cousin Theodora appeared, coming from the
old Squire's to make inquiries for me. They had missed me and were uneasy about me.

During the day every boy in the neighborhood came to see the animal, and many of the older
people, too. In fact, several people came from a considerable distance to look at the beast.
The "glory" was Tom's for making so good a shot in the night, yet, in a way, I shared it with him.

"Don't you ever say a word about our running from the sleigh," Tom cautioned me many times
that day, and added that he would never have run except for my bad example.

I was obliged to put up in silence with that reflection on my bravery.

CHAPTER IX

THE LOST OXEN

It was now approaching time to tap the maples again; but owing to the disaster which had befallen
our effort to make maple syrup for profit the previous spring, neither Addison nor myself felt
much inclination to undertake it. The matter was talked over at the breakfast table one morning
and noting our lukewarmness on the subject, the old Squire remarked that as the sugar lot had
been tapped steadily every spring for twenty years or more, it would be quite as well perhaps
to give the maples a rest for one season.

That same morning, too, Tom Edwards came over in haste to tell us, with a very sober face,
that their oxen had disappeared mysteriously, and ask us to join in the search to find them.
They were a yoke of "sparked" oxen--red and white in contrasting patches. Each had wide-spread
horns and a "star" in his face. Bright and Broad were their names, and they were eight years old.

Neighbor Jotham Edwards was one of those simpleminded, hard-working farmers who ought to prosper
but who never do. It is not easy to say just what the reason was for much of his ill fortune.
Born under an unlucky planet, some people said; but that, of course, is childish. The real
reason doubtless was lack of good judgment in his business enterprises.

Whatever he undertook nearly always turned out badly. His carts and ploughs broke unaccountably,
his horses were strangely prone to run away and smash things, and something was frequently
the matter with his crops. Twice, I remember, he broke a leg, and each time he had to lie six
weeks on his back for the bone to knit. Felons on his fingers tormented him; and it was a notable
season that he did not have a big, painful boil or a bad cut from a scythe or from an axe.
One mishap seemed to lead to another.

Jotham's constant ill fortune was the more noticeable among his neighbors because his father,
Jonathan, had been a careful, prosperous farmer who kept his place in excellent order, raised
good crops and had the best cattle of any one thereabouts. Within a few years after the place
had passed under Jotham's control it was mortgaged, the buildings and the fences were in bad
repair, and the fields were weedy. Yet that man worked summer and winter as hard and as steadily
as ever a man did or could.

Two winters before he had contracted with old Zack Lurvey to cut three hundred thousand feet
of hemlock logs and draw them to the bank of a small river where in the spring they could be
floated down to Lurvey's Mills. For hauling the logs he had two yokes of oxen, the yoke of
large eight-year-olds that I have already described, and another yoke of small, white-faced
cattle. During the first winter the off ox of the smaller pair stepped into a hole between
two roots, broke its leg and had to be killed. Afterwards Jotham worked the nigh ox in a crooked
yoke in front of his larger oxen and went on with the job from December until March.

But, as all teamsters know, oxen that are worked hard all day in winter weather require corn
meal or other equally nourishing provender in addition to hay. Now, Jotham had nothing for
his team except hay of inferior quality. In consequence, as the winter advanced the cattle
lost flesh and became very weak. By March they could scarcely walk with their loads, and at
last there came a morning when Jotham could not get the older oxen even to rise to their feet.
He was obliged to give up work with them, and finally came home after turning them loose to
help themselves to what hay was left at the camp.

The old Squire did not often concern himself with the affairs of his neighbors, but he went
up to the logging camp with Jotham; and when he saw the pitiful condition the cattle were in
he remonstrated with him.

"This is too bad," he said. "You have worked these oxen nearly to death, and you haven't half
fed them!"

"Wal, my oxen don't have to work any harder than I do!" Jotham replied angrily. "I ain't able
to buy corn for them. They must work without it."

"You only lose by such a foolish course," the old Squire said to him.

But Jotham was not a man who could easily be convinced of his errors. All his affairs were
going badly; arguing with him only made him impatient.

The snow was now so soft that the oxen in their emaciated and weakened condition could not
be driven home, and again Jotham left them at the camp to help themselves to fodder. He promised,
however, to send better hay and some potatoes up to them the next day. But during the following
night a great storm set in that carried off nearly all the snow and caused such a freshet in
the streams and the brooks that it was impracticable to reach the camp for a week or longer.
Then one night the small, white-faced ox made his appearance at the Edwards barn, having come
home of his own accord.

The next morning Jotham went up on foot to see how his other cattle were faring. The flood
had now largely subsided; but it was plain that during the storm the water had flowed back
round the camp to a depth of several feet. The oxen were nowhere to be seen, nor could he discern
their tracks round the camp or in the woods that surrounded it. He tried to track them with
a dog, but without success.

Several of Jotham's neighbors assisted him in the search. Where the oxen had gone or what had
become of them was a mystery; the party searched the forest in vain for a distance of five
or six miles on all sides. Some of the men thought that the oxen had fallen into the stream
and had drowned; it was not likely that they had been stolen. Jotham was at last obliged to
buy another yoke of cattle in order to do his spring work on the farm.

Two years passed, and Jotham's oxen were almost forgotten. During the second winter, after
school had closed in the old Squire's district, Willis Murch, a young friend of mine who lived
near us, went on a trapping trip to the headwaters of Lurvey's Stream, where the oxen had disappeared
and where he had a camp. One Saturday he came home for supplies and invited me to go back with
him and spend Sunday. The distance was perhaps fourteen miles; and we had to travel on snowshoes,
for at the time--it was February--the snow was nearly four feet deep in the woods. We had a
fine time there in camp that night and the next morning went to look at Willis's traps.

That afternoon, after we had got back to camp and cooked our dinner, Willis said to me, "Now,
if you will promise not to tell, I'll show you something that will make you laugh."

I promised readily enough, without thinking much about the matter.

"Come on, then," said he; and we put on our snowshoes again and prepared to start. But, though
I questioned him with growing curiosity, he would not tell me what we were to see. "Oh, you'll
find out soon enough," he said.

Willis led off, and I followed. I should think we went as much as five miles through the black
growth to the north of Willis's camp and came finally to a frozen brook, which we followed
for a mile round to the northeast.

"I was prospecting up this way a week ago," Willis said. "I had an idea of setting traps on
this brook. It flows into a large pond a little way ahead of us, but just before we get to
the pond it winds through a swamp of little spotted maple, moose bush and alder."

"I guess it's beaver you're going to show me," I remarked.

"Guess again," said Willis, "But keep still. Step in my tracks and don't make the brush crack."

The small growth was so thick that we could see only a little way ahead. Willis pushed slowly
through it for some time; then, stopping short, he motioned to me over his shoulder to come
forward. Not twenty yards away I distinguished the red-and-white hair of a large animal that
was browsing on a clump of bushes. It stood in a pathway trodden so deep into the snow that
its legs were completely hidden. In surprise I saw that it had broad horns.

"Why, that's an ox!" I exclaimed.

"Yes," said Willis, laughing. "His mate is round here, too."

"Willis," I almost shouted, "they must be the oxen Jotham lost two years ago!"

"Sure!" said Willis. "But don't make such a noise. There are moose here."

"Moose!" I whispered.

"There's a cow moose with two moose calves. When I was here last Thursday afternoon there were
three deer with them. The snow's got so deep they are yarding here together. They get water
at the brook, and I saw where they had dug down through the snow to get to the dry swamp grass
underneath. They won't leave their yard if we don't scare them; they couldn't run in the deep
snow."

We thought that probably the oxen had grown wild from being off in the woods so long. However,
Willis advanced slowly, calling, "Co-boss!" Seeing us coming and hearing human voices, the
old ox lifted his muzzle toward us and snuffed genially. He did not appear to be afraid, but
behaved as if he were glad to see us. The other one--old Broad--had been lying down near by
out of sight in the deep pathway, but now he suddenly rose and stood staring at us. We approached
to within ten feet of them. They appeared to be in fairly good flesh, and their hair seemed
very thick. Evidently they had wandered off from the logging camp and had been living a free,
wild life ever since. In the small open meadows along the upper course of the stream there
was plenty of wild grass. And, like deer, cattle will subsist in winter on the twigs of freshly
grown bushes. Even such food as that, with freedom, was better than the cruel servitude of Jotham!

On going round to the far side of the yard we spied the three deer, the cow moose and her two
yearling calves. They appeared unwilling to run away in the deep snow, but would not let us
approach near enough to see them clearly through the bushes.

"You could shoot one of those deer," I said to Willis; but he declared that he would never
shoot a deer or a moose when it was snow-bound in a yard.

We lingered near the yard for an hour or more. By speaking kindly to the oxen I found that
I could go very close to them; they had by no means forgotten human beings. On our way back
to Willis's camp he reminded me of my promise. "Now, don't you tell where those oxen are; don't
tell anybody!"

"But, Willis, don't you think Jotham ought to know?" I asked.

"No, I don't!" Willis exclaimed. "He has abused those oxen enough! They've got away from him,
and I'm glad of it! I'll never tell him where they are!"

We argued the question all the way to camp, and at last Willis said bluntly that he should
not have taken me to see them if he had thought that I would tell. "You promised not to," said
he. That was true, and there the matter rested overnight.

When I started home the next morning Willis walked with me for two miles or more. We had not
mentioned Jotham's oxen since the previous afternoon; but I plainly saw that Willis had been
thinking the matter over, for, after we separated and had each gone a few steps on his way,
he called after me:

"Are you going to tell about that?"

"No," said I, and walked on.

"Well, if you're not going to feel right about it, ask the old Squire what he thinks. If he
says that Jotham ought to be told, perhaps you had better tell him." And Willis hastened away.

But on reaching home I found that the old Squire had set off for Portland early that morning
to see about selling his lumber and was not to return for a week. So I said nothing to any
one. The night after he got back I watched for a chance to speak with him alone. After supper
he went into the sitting-room to look over his lumber accounts, and I stole in after him.

"You remember Jotham's oxen, gramp?" I began.

"Why, yes," said he, looking up.

"Well, I know where they are," I continued.

"Where?" he exclaimed in astonishment.

I then told him where Willis had found them and about the yard and the moose and deer we had
seen with the oxen. "Willis doesn't want Jotham told," I added. "He says Jotham has abused
those oxen enough, and that he is glad they got away from him. He made me promise not to tell
any one at first, but finally he said that I might tell you, and that we should do as you think
best."

The old Squire gave me an odd look. Then he laughed and resumed his accounts for what seemed
to me a long while. I had the feeling that he wished I had not told him.

At last he looked up. "I suppose, now that we have found this out, Jotham will have to be told.
They are his oxen, of course, and we should not feel right if we were to keep this from him.
It wouldn't be quite the neighborly thing to do--to conceal it. So you had better go over and
tell him."

Almost every one likes to carry news, whether good or bad; and within fifteen minutes I had
reached the Edwards farmhouse. Jotham, who was taking a late supper, came to the door.

"What will you give to know where your lost oxen are?" I cried.

"Where are they? Do you know?" he exclaimed. Then I told him where Willis and I had seen them.
"Wal, I vum!" said Jotham. "Left me and took to the woods! And I've lost two years' work from 'em!"

For a moment I was sorry I had told him.

The next day he journeyed up to Willis's camp with several neighbors; and from there they all
snowshoed to the yard to see the oxen and the moose. The strangely assorted little herd was
still there, and, so far as could be judged, no one else had discovered them.

Jotham had intended to drive the oxen home; but the party found the snow so deep that they
thought it best to leave them where they were for a while. Since it was now the first week
of March, the snow could be expected to settle considerably within a fortnight.

I think it was the eighteenth of the month when Jotham and four other men finally went to get
the oxen. They took a gun, with the intention of shooting one or more of the deer. A disagreeable
surprise awaited them at the yard.

At that time--it was before the days of game wardens--what were known as "meat-and-hide hunters"
often came down over the boundary from Canada and slaughtered moose and deer while the animals
were snow-bound. The lawless poachers frequently came in parties and sometimes searched the
woods for twenty or thirty miles below the Line in quest of yards.

Apparently such a raiding party had found Willis's yard and had shot not only the six deer
and moose but Jotham's oxen as well. Blood on the snow and refuse where the animals had been
hung up for skinning and dressing, made what had happened only too plain.

Poor Jotham came home much cast down. "That's just my luck!" he lamented. "Everything always
goes just that way with me!"

CHAPTER X

BETHESDA

If anything was missing at the old farmhouse--clothes-brush, soap, comb or other articles of
daily use--some one almost always would exclaim, "Look in Bethesda!" or "I left it in Bethesda!"
Bethesda was one of those household words that you use without thought of its original significance
or of the amused query that it raises in the minds of strangers.

Like most New England houses built seventy-five years ago, the farmhouse at the old Squire's
had been planned without thought of bathing facilities. The family washtub, brought to the
kitchen of a Saturday night, and filled with well water tempered slightly by a few quarts from
the teakettle, served the purpose. We were not so badly off as our ancestors had been, however,
for in 1865, when we young folks went home to live at the old Squire's, stoves were fully in
vogue and farmhouses were comfortably warmed. Bathing on winter nights was uncomfortable enough,
we thought, but it was not the desperately chilly business that it must have been when farmhouses
were heated by a single fireplace.

In the sitting-room we had both a fireplace and an "air-tight" for the coldest weather. In
grandmother Ruth's room there was a "fireside companion," and in the front room a "soapstone
comfort," with sides and top of a certain kind of variegated limestone that held heat through
the winter nights.

So much heat rose from the lower rooms that the bedrooms on the floor above, where we young
folks slept, were by no means uncomfortably cold, even in zero weather. Grandmother Ruth would
open the hall doors an hour before it was time for us to go to bed, to let the superfluous
heat rise for our benefit.

In the matter of bathing, however, a great deal was left to be desired at the old house. There
were six of us to take turns at that one tub. Grandmother Ruth took charge: she saw to it that
we did not take too long, and listened to the tearful complaints about the coldness of the
water. On Saturday nights her lot was not a happy one. She used to sit just outside the kitchen
door and call our names when our turns came; and as each of us went by she would hand us our
change of underclothing.

Although the brass kettle was kept heating on the stove all the while, we had trouble in getting
enough warm water to "take the chill off." More than once--unbeknown to grandmother Ruth--I
followed Addison in the tub without changing the water. He had appreciably warmed it up. One
night Halstead twitted me about it at the supper table, and I recollect that the lack of proper
sensibility that I had shown scandalized the entire family.

"Oh, Joseph!" grandmother often exclaimed to the old Squire. "We must have some better way
for these children to bathe. They are getting older and larger, and I certainly cannot manage
it much longer."

Things went on in that way for the first two years of our sojourn at the old place--until after
the old Squire had installed a hydraulic ram down at the brook, which forced plenty of water
up to the house and the barns. Then, in October of the third year, the old gentleman bestirred
himself.

He had been as anxious as any one to improve our bathing facilities, but it is not an easy
job to add a bathroom to a farmhouse. He walked about at the back of the house for hours, and
made several excursions to a hollow at a distance in the rear of the place, and also climbed
to the attic, all the while whistling softly:

    "Roll on, Silver Moon,
    Guide the traveler on his way."

That was always a sure sign that he was getting interested in some scheme.

Then things began to move in earnest. Two carpenters appeared and laid the sills for an addition
to the house, twenty feet long by eighteen feet wide, just behind the kitchen, which was in
the L. The room that they built had a door opening directly into the kitchen. The floor, I
remember, was of maple and the walls of matched spruce.

Meanwhile the old Squire had had a sewer dug about three hundred feet long; and to hold the
water supply he built a tank of about a thousand gallons' capacity, made of pine planks; the
tank was in the attic directly over the kitchen stove, so that in winter heat would rise under
it through a little scuttle in the floor and prevent the water from freezing.

From the tank the pipes that led to the new bathroom ran down close to the chimney and the
stove pipe. Those bathroom pipes gave the old Squire much anxiety; there was not a plumber
in town; the old gentleman had to do the work himself, with the help of a hardware dealer from
the village, six miles away.

But if the pipe gave him anxiety, the bathtub gave him more. When he inquired at Portland about
their cost, he was somewhat staggered to learn that the price of a regular tub was fifty-eight
dollars.

But the old Squire had an inventive brain. He drove up to the mill, selected a large, sound
pine log about four feet in diameter and set old Davy Glinds, a brother of Hughy Glinds, to
excavate a tub from it with an adze. In his younger days Davy Glinds had been a ship carpenter,
and was skilled in the use of the broadaxe and the adze. He fashioned a good-looking tub, five
feet long by two and a half wide, smooth hewn within and without. When painted white the tub
presented a very creditable appearance.

The old Squire was so pleased with it that he had Glinds make another; and then, discovering
how cheaply pine bathtubs could be made, he hit upon a new notion. The more he studied on a
thing like that, the more the subject unfolded in his dear old head. Why, the old Squire asked
himself, need the Saturday-night bath occupy a whole evening because the eight or ten members
of the family had to take turns in one tub, when we could just as well have more tubs?

Before grandmother Ruth fairly realized what he was about, the old gentleman had five of these
pine tubs ranged there in the new lean-to. He had the carpenters inclose each tub within a
sealed partition of spruce boards. There was thus formed a little hall five feet wide in the
center of the new bathroom, from which small doors opened to each tub.

"What do you mean, Joseph, by so many tubs?" grandmother cried in astonishment, when she discovered
what he was doing.

"Well, Ruth," he said, "I thought we'd have a tub for the boys, a tub for the girls, then tubs
for you and me, mother, and one for our hired help."

"Sakes alive, Joe! All those tubs to keep clean!"

"But didn't you want a large bathroom?" the old Squire rejoined, with twinkling eyes.

"Yes, yes," cried grandmother, "but I had no idea you were going to make a regular Bethesda!"

Bethesda! Sure enough, like the pool in Jerusalem, it had five porches! And that name, born
of grandmother Ruth's indignant surprise, stuck to it ever afterwards.

When the old Squire began work on that bathroom he expected to have it finished in a month.
But one difficulty after another arose: the tank leaked; the sewer clogged; nothing would work.
If the hardware dealer from the village came once to help, he came fifty times! His own experience
in bathrooms was limited. Then, to have hot water in abundance, it was necessary to send to
Portland for a seventy-five-gallon copper heater; and six weeks passed before that order was
filled.

November, December and January passed before Bethesda was ready to turn on the water; and then
we found that the kitchen stove would not heat so large a heater, or at least would not do
it and serve as a cook-stove at the same time. Nor would it sufficiently warm the bathroom
in very cold weather even with the kitchen door open. Then one night in February the pipes
at the far end froze and burst, and the hardware man had to make us another hasty visit.

To ward off such accidents in the future the old Squire now had recourse to what is known as
the Granger furnace--a convenience that was then just coming into general favor among farmers.
They are cosy, heat-holding contrivances, made of brick and lined either with fire brick or
iron; they have an iron top with pot holes in which you can set kettles. The old Squire connected
ours with the heater, and he placed it so that half of it projected into the new bathroom,
through the partition wall of the kitchen. It served its purpose effectively and on winter
nights diffused a genial glow both in the kitchen and in the bathroom.

But it was the middle of April before the bathroom was completed; and the cost was actually
between eight and nine hundred dollars!

"My sakes, Joseph!" grandmother exclaimed. "Another bathroom like that would put us in the
poor-house. And the neighbors all think we're crazy!"

The old Squire, however, rubbed his hands with a smile of satisfaction. "I call it rather fine.
I guess we are going to like it," he said.

Like it we did, certainly. Bathing was no longer an ordeal, but a delight. There was plenty
of warm water; you had only to pick your tub, enter your cubicle and shut the door. Bethesda,
with its Granger furnace and big water heater, was a veritable household joy.

"Ruth," the old Squire said, "all I'm sorry for is that I didn't do this thirty years ago.
When I reflect on the cold, miserable baths we have taken and the other privations you and
I have endured all these years it makes me heartsick to think what I've neglected."

"But nine hundred dollars, Joseph!" grandmother interposed with a scandalized expression. "That's
an awful bill!"

"Yes," the old Squire admitted, "but we shall survive it."

Grandmother was right about our neighbors. What they said among themselves would no doubt have
been illuminating if we had heard it; but they maintained complete silence when we were present.
But we noticed that when they called at the farmhouse they cast curious and perhaps envious
glances at the new lean-to.

Then an amusing thing happened. We had been enjoying Bethesda for a few weeks, but had not
yet got past our daily pride in it, when one hot evening in the latter part of June who should
come driving into the yard but David Barker, "the Burns of Maine," a poet and humorist of state-wide
renown.

The old Squire had met him several times; but his visit that night was accidental. He had come
into our part of the state to visit a kinsman, but had got off his proper route and had called
at our house to ask how far away this relative lived.

"It is nine or ten miles up there," the old Squire said when they had shaken hands. "You are
off your route. Better take out your horse and spend the night with us. You can find your way
better by daylight."

After some further conversation Mr. Barker decided to accept the old Squire's invitation. While
grandmother and Ellen got supper for our guest, the old Squire escorted him to the hand bowl
that he had put in at the end of the bathroom hall. I imagine that the old Squire was just
a little proud of our recent accommodations.

"And, David, if you would like a bath before retiring to-night, just step in here and make
yourself at home," he said and opened several of the doors to the little cubicles.

David looked the tubs over, first one and then another.

"Wal, Squire," he said at last, in that peculiar voice of his, "I've sometimes wondered why
our Maine folks had so few bathtubs, and sometimes been a little ashamed on't. But now I see
how 'tis. You've got all the bathtubs there are cornered up here at your place!"

He continued joking about our bathrooms while he was eating supper; and later, before retiring,
he said, "I know you are a neat woman, Aunt Ruth, and I guess before I go to bed I'll take
a turn in your bathroom."

Ellen gave him a lamp; and he went in and shut the door. Fifteen minutes--half an hour--nearly
an hour--passed, and still he was in there; and we heard him turning on and letting off water,
apparently barrels of it! Occasionally, too, we heard a door open and shut.

At last, when nearly an hour and a half had elapsed, the old Squire, wondering whether anything
were wrong, went to the bathroom door. He knocked, and on getting a response inquired whether
there was any trouble.

"Doesn't the water run, David?" he asked. "Is it too cold for you? How are you getting on in
there?"

"Getting on beautifully," came the muffled voice of the humorist above the splashing within.
"Doing a great job. Only one tub more! Four off and one to come."

"But, David!" the old Squire began in considerable astonishment.

"Yes. Sure. It takes time. But I know Aunt Ruth is an awful neat woman, and I determined to
do a full job!"

He had been taking a bath in each of the five tubs in succession. That was Barker humor.

CHAPTER XI

WHEN WE WALKED THE TOWN LINES

It was some time the following week, I think, that the old Squire looked across to us at the
breakfast table and said, "Boys, don't you want to walk the town lines for me? I think I shall
let you do it this time--and have the fee," he added, smiling.

The old gentleman was one of the selectmen of the town that year; and an old law, or municipal
regulation, required that one or more of the selectmen should walk the town lines--follow round
the town boundaries on foot--once a year, to see that the people of adjoining towns, or others,
were not trespassing. The practice of walking the town lines is now almost or quite obsolete,
but it was a needed precaution when inhabitants were few and when the thirty-six square miles
of a township consisted mostly of forest. At this time the southern half of our town was already
taken up in farms, but the northern part was still in forest lots. The selectmen usually walked
the north lines only.

When the state domain, almost all dense forest, was first surveyed, the land was laid off in
ranges, so-called, and tiers of lots. The various grants of land to persons for public services
were also surveyed in a similar manner and the corners and lines established by means of stakes
and stones, and of blazed trees. If a large rock happened to lie at the corner of a range or
lot, the surveyor sometimes marked it with a drill. Such rocks made the best corners.

Usually the four corners of the town were established by means of low, square granite posts,
set in the earth and with the initial letter of the township cut in it with a drill.

As if it were yesterday I remember that sharp, cold morning. Hard-frozen snow a foot deep still
covered the cleared land, and in the woods it was much deeper. The first heavy rainstorm of
spring had come two days before, but it had cleared off cold and windy the preceding evening,
with snow squalls and zero weather again. Nevertheless, Addison and I were delighted at the
old Squire's proposal, especially since the old gentleman had hinted that we could have the
fee, which was usually four dollars when two of the selectmen walked the lines and were out
all day.

"Go to the northeast corner of the town first," the old Squire said. "The corner post is three
miles and a half from here; you will find it in the cleared land a hundred rods northeast of
the barn on the Jotham Silver place. Start from there and go due west till you reach the wood-lot
on the Silver farm. There the blazed trees begin, and you will have to go from one to another.
It is forest nearly all the way after that for six miles, till you come to the northwest town
corner.

"You can take my compass if you like," the old Squire added. "But it will not be of much use
to you, for it will be easier to follow the blazed trees or corner stakes. Take our lightest
axe with you and renew the old blazes on the trees." He apparently felt some misgivings that
we might get lost, for he added, "If you want to ask Thomas to go with you, you may."

Tom was more accustomed to being in the woods than either of us; but Addison hesitated about
inviting him, for of course if he went we should have to divide the fee with him. However,
the old Squire seemed to wish to have him go with us, and at last, while Theodora was putting
up a substantial luncheon for us, Ellen ran over to carry the invitation to Tom. He was willing
enough to go and came back with her, carrying his shotgun.

"It will be a long jaunt," the old gentleman said as we started off. "But if you move on briskly
and don't stop by the way, you can get back before dark."

The snow crust was so hard and the walking so good that we struck directly across the fields
and pastures to the northeast and within an hour reached the town corner on the Silver farm.
At that point our tramp along the north line of the town began, and we went from one blazed
tree to another and freshened the blazes.

We went on rapidly, crossed Hedgehog Ridge and descended to Stoss Pond, which the town line
crossed obliquely. We had expected to cross the pond on the ice; but the recent great rainstorm
and thaw had flooded the ice to a depth of six or eight inches. New ice was already forming,
but it would not quite bear our weight, and we had to make a detour of a mile through swamps
round the south end of the pond and pick up the line again on the opposite shore.

Stoss Pond Mountain then confronted us, and it was almost noon when we neared Wild Brook; we
heard it roaring as we approached and feared that we should find it very high.

"We may have to fell a tree over it to get across," Addison said.

So it seemed, for upon emerging on the bank we saw a yellow torrent twenty feet or more wide
and four or five feet deep rushing tumultuously down the rocky channel.

Tom, however, who had come out on the bank a little way below, shouted to us, above the roar,
to come that way, and we rejoined him at a bend where the opposite bank was high. He was in
the act of crossing cautiously on a snow bridge. During the winter a great snowdrift, seven
or eight feet deep, had lodged in the brook; and the recent freshet had merely cut a channel
beneath it, leaving a frozen arch that spanned the torrent.

"Don't do it!" Addison shouted to him. "It will fall with you!"

But, extending one foot slowly ahead of the other, Tom safely crossed to the other side.

"Come on!" he shouted. "It will hold."

Addison, however, held back. The bridge looked dangerous; if it broke down, whoever was on
it would be thrown into the water and carried downstream in the icy torrent.

"Oh, it's strong enough!" Tom exclaimed. "That will hold all right." And to show how firm it
was, he came part way back across the frozen arch and stood still.

It was an unlucky action. The whole bridge suddenly collapsed under him, and down went Tom
with it into the rushing water, which whirled him along toward a jam of ice and drift stuff
twenty or thirty yards below. By flinging his arms across one of those great cakes of hard-frozen
snow he managed to keep his head up; and he shouted lustily for us to help him. He bumped against
the jam and hung there, fighting with both arms to keep from being carried under it.

Addison, who had the axe, ran down the bank and with a few strokes cut a moosewood sapling,
which we thrust out to Tom. He caught hold of it, and then, by pulling hard, we hauled him
to the bank and helped him out.

Oh, but wasn't he a wet boy, and didn't his teeth chatter! In fact, all three of us were wet,
for, in our excitement, Addison and I had gone in knee-deep, and the water had splashed over
us. In that bitter cold wind we felt it keenly. Tom was nearly torpid; he seemed unable to
speak, and we could hardly make him take a step. His face and hands were blue.

"What shall we do with him?" Addison whispered to me in alarm. "It's five miles home. I'm afraid
he'll freeze."

We then thought of the old Squire's logging camp on Papoose Pond, the outlet of which entered
Wild Brook about half a mile above where we had tried to cross it. We knew that there was a
cooking stove in the camp and decided that our best plan was to take Tom there and dry his
clothes. Getting him between us, we tried to make him run, but he seemed unable to move his feet.

"Run, run, Tom!" we shouted to him. "Run, or you'll freeze!"

He seemed not to hear or care. In our desperation we slapped him and dragged him along between
us. Finally his legs moved a little, and he began to step.

"Run, run with us!" Addison kept urging.

At last we got him going, although he shook so hard that he shook us with him. The exertion
did him good. We hustled him along and, following the brook, came presently to a disused lumber
road that led to the logging camp in the woods a few hundred yards from the shore of the pond.
All three of us were panting hard when we reached it, but our wet clothes were frozen stiff.

We rushed Tom into the camp and, finding matches on a shelf behind the stovepipe, kindled a
fire of such dry stuff as we found at hand. Then, as the place warmed up, we pulled off Tom's
frozen outer coat and waistcoat, got the water out of his boots, and set him behind the stove.

Still he shook and could speak only with difficulty. We kept a hot fire and finally boiled
water in a kettle and, gathering wintergreen leaves from a knoll outside the camp, made a hot
tea for him.

At last we put him into the bunk and covered him as best we could with our own coats, which
we did not miss, since the camp was now as hot as an oven. For more than an hour longer, however,
his tremors continued in spite of the heat. Addison and I took turns rushing outside to cut
wood from dry spruces to keep the stove hot. A little later, as I came in with an armful, I
found Addison watching Tom.

"Sh!" he said. "He's asleep."

The afternoon was waning; a cold, windy night was coming on.

"What shall we do?" Addison whispered in perplexity. "I don't believe we ought to take him
out; his clothes aren't dry yet. We shall have to stay here all night with him."

"But what will the folks at home think?" I exclaimed.

"Of course they will worry about us," Addison replied gloomily. "But I'm afraid Tom will get
his death o' cold if we take him out. We ought to keep him warm."

Our own wet clothes had dried by that time, and, feeling hungry, we ate a part of our luncheon.
Night came on with snow squalls; the wind roared in the forest. It was so bleak that we gave
up all idea of going home; and, after bringing in ten or a dozen armfuls of wood, we settled
down to spend the night there. Still Tom slept, but he breathed easier and had ceased to shiver.
Suddenly he sat up and cried, "Help!"

"Don't you know where you are?" Addison asked. "Still dreaming?"

He stared round in the feeble light. "Oh, yes!" he said and laughed. "It's the old camp. I
tumbled into the brook. But what makes it so dark?"

"It's night. You have been asleep two or three hours. We shall have to stay here till morning."

"With nothing to eat?" Tom exclaimed. "I'm hungry!"

In his haste to set off from home with Ellen he had neglected to take any luncheon. We divided
with him what we had left; and he ate hungrily.

While he was eating, we heard a sound of squalling, indistinct above the roar of the wind in
the woods.

"Bobcat!" Tom exclaimed. Then he added, "But it sounds more like an old gander."

"May be a flock of wild geese passing over," Addison said. "They sometimes fly by night."

"Not on such a cold night in such a wind," Tom replied.

Soon we heard the same sounds again.

"That's an old gander, sure," Tom admitted.

"Seems to come from the same place," Addison remarked. "Out on Papoose Pond, I guess."

"Yes, siree!" Tom exclaimed. "A flock of geese has come down on that pond. If I had my gun,
I could get a goose. But my gun is in Wild Brook," he added regretfully. "I let go of it when
I fell in."

The squalling continued at intervals. The night was so boisterous, however, that we did not
leave the camp and after a time fell asleep in the old bunk.

The cold waked me soon after daybreak. Tom and Addison were still asleep, with their coats
pulled snugly about their shoulders and their feet drawn up. I rekindled the fire and clattered
round the stove. Still they snoozed on; and soon afterwards, hearing the same squalling sounds
again, I stole forth in the bleak dawn to see what I could discover.

When I had pushed through the swamp of thick cedar that lay between the camp and the pond,
I beheld a goose flapping its wings and squalling scarcely more than a stone's throw away.
A second glance, in the increasing light, showed me the forms of other geese, great numbers
of them on the newly formed ice. On this pond, as on the other, water had gathered over the
winter ice and then frozen again.

With the exception of this one gander, the flock was sitting there very still and quiet. The
gander waddled among the others, plucking at them with his pink beak, as if to stir them up.
Now and then he straightened up, flapped his wings and squalled dolorously. None of the others
I noticed flapped, stirred or made any movement whatever. They looked as if they were asleep,
and many of them had their heads under their wings.

At last I went out toward them on the new ice, which had now frozen solid enough to bear me.
The gander rose in the air and circled overhead, squalling fearfully. On going nearer, I saw
that all those geese were frozen in, and that they were dead; the entire flock, except that
one powerful old gander, had perished there. They were frozen in the ice so firmly that I could
not pull them out; in fact, I could scarcely bend the necks of those that had tucked them under
their wings. I counted forty-one of them besides the gander.

While I was looking them over, Tom and Addison appeared on the shore. They had waked and missed
me, but, hearing the gander, had guessed that I had gone to the pond. Both were astonished
and could hardly believe their eyes till they came out where I stood and tried to lift the geese.

"We shall have to chop them out with the axe!" Tom exclaimed. "By jingo, boys, here's goose
feathers enough to make two feather beds and pillows to boot."

The gander, still squalling, circled over us again.

"The old fellow feels bad," Addison remarked. "He has lost his whole big family."

We decided that the geese on their way north had been out in the rainstorm, and that when the
weather cleared and turned cold so suddenly, with snow squalls, they had become bewildered,
perhaps, and had descended on the pond. The cold wave was so sharp that, being quite without
food, they had frozen into the ice and perished there.

"Well, old boy," Tom said, addressing the gander that now stood flapping his wings at us a
few hundred feet away, "you've lost your women-folks. We may as well have them as the bobcats."

He fetched the axe, and we cut away the ice round the geese and then carried six loads of them
down to camp.

If we had had any proper means of preparing a goose we should certainly have put one to bake
in the stove oven; for all three of us were hungry. As it was, Addison said we had better make
a scoot, load the geese on it, and take the nearest way home. We had only the axe and our jackknives
to work with, and it was nine o'clock before we had built a rude sled and loaded the geese on it.

As we were about to start we heard a familiar voice cry, "Well, well; there they are!" And
who should come through the cedars but the old Squire! A little behind him was Tom's father.

On account of the severity of the weather both families had been much alarmed when we failed
to come home the night before. Making an early start that morning, Mr. Edwards and the old
Squire had driven to the Silver farm and, leaving their team there, had followed the town line
in search of us. On reaching Wild Brook they had seen that the snow bridge had fallen, and
at first they had been badly frightened. On looking round, however, they had found the marks
of our boot heels on the frozen snow, heading up-stream, and had immediately guessed that we
had gone to the old camp. So we had their company on the way home; and much astonished both
of them were at the sight of so many geese.

The two households shared the goose feathers. The meat was in excellent condition for cooking,
and our two families had many a good meal of roast goose. We sent six of the birds to the town
farm, and we heard afterwards that the seventeen paupers there partook of a grand goose dinner,
garnished with apple sauce. But I have often thought of that old gander flying north to the
breeding grounds alone.

The following week we walked the remaining part of the town line and received the fee.

CHAPTER XII

THE ROSE-QUARTZ SPRING

Throughout that entire season the old Squire was much interested in a project for making a
fortune from the sale of spring water. The water of the celebrated Poland Spring, twenty miles
from our place--where the Poland Spring Hotel now stands--was already enjoying an enviable
popularity; and up in our north pasture on the side of Nubble Hill, there was, and still is,
a fine spring, the water of which did not differ in analysis from that of the Poland Spring.
It is the "boiling" type of spring, and the water, which is stone-cold, bubbles up through
white quartzose sand at the foot of a low granite ledge. It flows throughout the year at the
rate of about eight gallons a minute.

It had always been called the Nubble Spring, but when the old Squire and Addison made their
plans for selling the spring water they rechristened it the Rose-Quartz Spring on account of
an outcrop of rose quartz in the ledges near by.

They had the water analyzed by a chemist in Boston, who pronounced it as pure as Poland water,
and, indeed, so like it that he could detect no difference. All of us were soon enthusiastic
about the project.

First we set to work to make the spring more attractive. We cleared up the site and formed
a granite basin for the water, sheltered by a little kiosk with seats where visitors could
sit as they drank. We also cleared up the slope round it and set out borders of young pine
and balm-of-Gilead trees.

We sent samples of the water in bottles and kegs to dealers in spring waters, along with a
descriptive circular--which Addison composed--and the statement of analysis. Addison embellished
the circular with several pictures of the spring and its surroundings, and cited medical opinions
on the value of pure waters of this class. We also invited our neighbors and fellow townsmen
to come and drink at our spring.

Very soon orders began to come in. The name itself, the Rose-Quartz Spring, was fortunate,
for it conveyed a suggestion of crystal purity; that with the analysis induced numbers of people
in the great cities, especially in Chicago, to try it.

Less was known in 1868 than now of the precautions that it is necessary to take in sending
spring water to distant places, in order to insure its keeping pure. Little was known of microbes
or antisepsis.

The old Squire and Addison decided that they would have to send the water to their customers
in kegs of various sizes and in barrels; but as kegs made of oak staves, or of spruce, would
impart a woody taste to the water, they hit upon the expedient of making the staves of sugar-maple
wood. The old Squire had a great quantity of staves sawed at his hardwood flooring mill, and
at the cooper shop had them made into kegs and barrels of all sizes from five gallons' capacity
up to fifty gallons'. After the kegs were set up we filled them with water and allowed them
to soak for a week to take out all taste of the wood before we filled them from the spring
and sent them away.

We believed that that precaution was sufficient, but now it is known that spring water can
be kept safe only by putting it in glass bottles and glass carboys. No water will keep sweet
in barrels for any great length of time, particularly when exported to hot climates.

The spring was nearly a mile from the farmhouse; and at a little distance below it we built
a shed and set up a large kettle for boiling water to scald out the kegs and barrels that came
back from customers and dealers to be refilled. We were careful not only to rinse them but
also to soak them before we cleaned them with scalding water. As the business of sending off
the water grew, the old Squire kept a hired man at the spring and the shed to look after the
kegs and to draw the water. His name was James Doane. He had been with the old Squire six years
and as a rule was a trustworthy man and a good worker. He had one failing: occasionally, although
not very often, he would get drunk.

So firm was the old Squire's faith in the water that we drew a supply of it to the house every
second morning. Addison fitted up a little "water room" in the farmhouse L, and we kept water
there in large bottles, cooled, for drinking. The water seemed to do us good, for we were all
unusually healthy that summer. "Here's the true elixir of health," the old Squire often said
as he drew a glass of it and sat down in the pleasant, cool "water room" to enjoy it.

Addison and he had fixed the price of the water at twenty-five cents a gallon, although we
made our neighbors and fellow townsmen welcome to all they cared to come and get. We first
advertised the water in June, and sales increased slowly throughout the summer and fall. Apparently
the water gave good satisfaction, for the kegs came back to be refilled. By the following May
the success of the venture seemed assured. Those who were using the water spoke well of it,
and the demand was growing. In April we received orders for more than nine hundred gallons,
and in May for more than thirteen hundred gallons.

The old Squire was very happy over the success of the enterprise. "It's a fine, clean business,"
he said. "That water has done us good, and it will do others good; and if they drink that,
they will drink less whiskey."

Addison spent the evenings in making out bills and attending to the correspondence; for there
were other matters that had to be attended to besides the Rose-Quartz Spring. Besides the farm
work we had to look after the hardwood flooring mill that summer and the white-birch dowel
mill. For several days toward the end of June we did not even have time to go up to the spring
for our usual supply of water. But we kept Jim Doane there under instructions to attend carefully
to the putting up of the water. It was his sole business, and he seemed to be attending to
it properly. He was at the spring every day and boarded at the house of a neighbor, named Murch,
who lived nearer to Nubble Hill than we did. Every day, too, we noticed the smoke of the fire
under the kettle in which he heated water for scalding out the casks.

The first hint we had that things were going wrong was when Willis Murch told Addison that
Doane had been on a spree, and that for several days he had been so badly under the influence
of liquor that he did not know what he was about.

On hearing that news Addison and the old Squire hastened to the spring. Jim was there, sober
enough now, and working industriously. But he looked bad, and his account of how he had done
his work for the last week was far from clear. The old Squire gave him another job at the dowel
mill and stationed his brother, Asa Doane, a strictly temperate man, at the spring. We could
not learn just what had happened during the past ten days, but we hoped that no serious neglect
had occurred.

But there had.

Toward the middle of July a letter of complaint came--the first we had ever received. "This
barrel of water from your spring is not keeping good," were the exact words of it. I remember
them well, for we read them over and over again. Addison replied at once, and sent another
barrel in its place.

Before another week had passed a second complaint came. "This last barrel of water from your
spring is turning 'ropy,'" it said. Another customer sent his barrel back when half full, with
a letter saying, "It isn't fit to drink. The barrel is slimy inside."

Addison examined the barrel carefully, and found that there was, indeed, an appreciable film
of vegetable growth on the staves inside. The taste of the water also was quite different.

Within a fortnight four more barrels and kegs were returned to us, in at least two cases accompanied
by sharp words of condemnation. "No better than pond water," one customer wrote.

We carefully examined the inside of all these barrels and kegs as soon as they came back. Besides
invisible impurities in the water, there was in every one more or less visible dirt, even bits
of grass and slivers of wood.

There was only one conclusion to reach: Jim Doane had not been careful in filling the kegs
and had not properly cleansed and scalded them. As nearly as we could discover from bits of
information that came out subsequently, there were days and days when he was too "hazy" to
know whether he had cleansed the barrels or not. He had filled them and sent them off in foul
condition.

Addison wrote more than fifty letters to customers, defending the purity of Rose-Quartz Spring
water, relating the facts of this recent "accident" and asking for a continued trial of it.
I suppose that people at a distance thought that if there had been carelessness once there
might be again. Very likely, too, they suspected that the water had never been so pure as we
had declared it to be. Owners of other springs who had put water on the market improved the
opportunity to circulate reports that Rose-Quartz water would not "keep." We got possession
of three circulars in which that damaging statement had been sent broadcast.

There is probably no commodity in the world that depends so much on a reputation for purity
as spring water. By September the orders for water had fallen off to a most disheartening extent.
Scarcely three hundred gallons were called for.

In the hope that this was merely a temporary set-back, and knowing that there was no fault
in the water itself, the old Squire spent a thousand dollars in advertisements to stem the
tide of adverse criticism. So far as we could discover, the effort produced little or no effect
on sales. The opinion had gone abroad that the water would not keep pure for any great length
of time. By the following spring sales had dwindled to such an extent that it was hardly worth
while to continue the business. Considered as a commercial asset, the Rose-Quartz Spring was dead.

Regretfully we gave up the enterprise and let the spring fall into disuse. It was then, I remember,
that the old Squire said, "It takes us one lifetime to learn how to do things."

CHAPTER XIII

FOX PILLS

ABOUT this time an affair which had long been worrying Addison and myself came to a final settlement.

Up in the great woods, three or four miles from the old Squire's farm, there was a clearing
of thirty or forty acres in which stood an old house and barn, long unoccupied. A lonelier
place can hardly be imagined. Sombre spruce and fir woods inclosed the clearing on all sides;
and over the tree-tops on the east side loomed the three rugged dark peaks of the Stoss Pond
mountains.

Thirty years before, Lumen Bartlett, a young man about twenty years old, had cleared the land
with his own labor, built the house and barn, and a little later gone to live there with his
wife, Althea, who was younger even than he.

Life in so remote a place must have been somewhat solitary; but they were very happy, it is
said, for a year and a half. Then one morning they fell to quarreling bitterly over so trifling
a thing as a cedar broom. In the anger of the moment Althea made a bundle of her clothing and
without a word of farewell set off on foot to go home to her parents, who lived ten miles away.

Lumen, equally stubborn, took his axe and went out to his work of clearing land for a new field.
No one saw him alive afterwards; but two weeks later some hunters found his body in the woods.
Apparently the tops of several of the trees he had been trying to cut down had lodged together,
and to bring them down he had cut another large tree on which they hung. This last tree must
have started to fall suddenly. Lumen ran the wrong way and was caught under the top of one
of the lodged trees as it came crashing down. The marks showed that he had tried, probably
for hours, to cut off with his pocket knife one large branch that lay across his body. They
found the knife with the blade broken. He had also tried to free himself by digging with his
bare fingers into the hard, rocky earth. If Lumen had been to blame for the quarrel, he paid
a fearful penalty.

Afterwards, however, Althea declared that she had been to blame; and if that were true, she
also paid a sad penalty. During the few remaining years of her life she was never in her right
mind. She used to imagine that she heard Lumen calling to her for help, and several times,
eluding her parents, she made her way back to the clearing. Every time when they found her
she was wandering about the place, stopping now and then as if to listen, then flitting on
again, saying in a sad singsong, "I'm coming, Lumen! Oh, I'll come back!"

Naturally, persons of a superstitious nature began to imagine that they, too, heard strange
cries at the deserted farm, for no one ever lived there subsequently. Very likely they did
hear cries--the cries of wild animals; that old clearing in the woods was a great place for
bears, foxes, raccoons and "lucivees."

A year or two before we young folks went home to live on the old farm the town sold this deserted
lot at auction for unpaid taxes. Some years before, vagrant woodsmen had accidentally burned
the old house; but the barn, a weathered, gray structure, was still intact. Since the land
adjoined other timber lots that the old Squire owned, he bid it off and let it lie unoccupied
except as a pasture where sheep, or young stock that needed little care, could be put away
for the summer. The soil was good, and the grass was excellent in quality.

One year, in May, after we had repaired the brush fence, we turned into it our three Morgan
colts along with two Percherons from a stock farm near the village, a Morgan three-year-old
belonging to our neighbors, the Edwardses, three colts owned by other neighbors, and a beautiful
sorrel three-year-old mare, the pet of young Mrs. Kennard, wife of the principal at the village
academy. Her father, who had recently died, had given her the colt.

All four Morgans were dark-chestnut colts, lithe but strong and clear-eyed. And what chests
and loins they had for their size! They were not so showy as the larger, dappled Percherons,
perhaps, but they were better all-round horses. Lib, Brown and Joe were the names of our Morgans;
Chet was the name that the Edwards young folks gave theirs. Yet none of them was so pretty
as Mrs. Kennard's Sylph. She was, indeed, a blonde fairy of a mare, as graceful as a deer.

On the afternoon that we took Sylph up to the clearing, Mrs. Kennard walked all the way with
us, because she wished to see for herself what the place was like. When she saw what a remote,
wild region it was, she was loath to leave her pet there, and Mr. Kennard had some ado to reassure
her. At last, after giving the colt many farewell pats and caresses, she came away with us.
On the way home she said over and over to Addison and me, "Be sure to go up often and see that
Sylph is all right." And, laughing a little, we promised that we would, and that we would also
give the colt sugar lumps as well as her weekly salt.

"Salting" the sheep and young cattle that were out at pasture for the season was one of our
weekly duties. When we were very busy we sometimes put it off until Sunday morning. Sometimes
it slipped our minds altogether for a few days, or even for a week; but Mrs. Kennard's solicitude
for her pet had touched our hearts, and we resolved that we should always be prompt in performing
the task.

The colts had been turned out on Tuesday; and the following Sunday morning after breakfast
Addison and I, with the girls accompanying us, set off with the salt and the sugar lumps. It
was a long walk for the girls, but an inspiring one on such a bright morning. The songs of
birds and the chatter of squirrels filled the woodland. Fresh green heads of bosky ferns and
wake-robin were pushing up through the old mats of last year's foliage.

"How jealous the rest of them will be of Sylph!" said Ellen, who had the sugar lumps. "I believe
I shall give each of them a lump, so that they won't be spiteful and kick her."

As we neared the bars in the brush fence we saw several of the colts at the upper side of the
clearing beyond the old barn. At the first call from us, up went their pretty heads; there
was a general whinny, and then they came racing to the bars to greet us. Perhaps they had been
a little homesick so far from stables and barns.

"One--two--three--four--why, they are not all here!" Theodora said. "Here are only seven. Lib
isn't here, or Mrs. Kennard's Sylph."

"Oh, I guess they're not far off," Addison said, and began calling, "Co' jack, co' jack!" He
wanted them all there before he dropped the salt in little piles on the grassy greensward.

But the absent ones did not come. Ellen ventured the opinion that they might have jumped the
fence and wandered off.

"Oh, they wouldn't separate up here in the woods," Addison said. "Colts keep together when
off in a back pasture like this."

But when he went on calling and they still did not come, we began really to fear that they
had got out and strayed.

"Let's go round the fence," Addison said at last, "and see if we find a gap, or hoofprints
on the outside, where they have jumped over."

He and Theodora went one way, Ellen and I the other. We met halfway round the clearing without
having discovered either gaps in the fence or tracks outside. Remembering that horses, when
rolling, sometimes get cast in hollows between knolls, we searched the entire clearing, and
even looked into the old barn, the door of which stood slightly ajar; but we found no trace
of the missing animals and began to believe that they really had jumped out.

We gave the seven colts their salt and were about to start home to report to the old Squire
when Ellen remarked that we had not actually looked among the alders down by the brook, where
the colts went for water.

"Oh, but those colts would not stay down there by themselves all this time with us calling
them!" Addison exclaimed.

"But let's just take a look, to be certain," Ellen replied, and she and I ran down there.

We had no more than pushed our way through the alder clumps when two crows rose silently and
went flapping away; and then I caught sight of something that made me stop short: the body
of one of the Morgan colts--our Lib--lying close to the brook!

"Oh!" gasped Ellen. "It's dead!"

Pushing on through the alders, we saw one of the Percherons near the Morgan. The sight affected
Ellen so much that she turned back; but I went on and a little farther up the brook found the
sorrel lying stark and stiff.

A moment later Ellen returned, with Addison and Theodora. Both girls were moved to tears as
they gazed at poor Sylph; they felt even worse about her than about our own Morgan.

"Oh, what will Mrs. Kennard say?" Ellen cried. "How dreadfully she will feel!"

Addison closely examined the bodies of the colts. "I cannot understand what did it!" he exclaimed.
"No marks. No blood. It wasn't wild animals. It couldn't have been lightning, for there hasn't
been a thundershower this season. Must be something they've eaten."

We looked all along the brook, but could see no Indian poke, the fresh growths of which will
poison stock. Nor had we ever seen ground hemlock or poisonous ivy there. The clearing was
nearly all good, grassy upland such as farmers consider a safe pasturage. Truly the shadow
of tragedy seemed to hover there.

We bore our sorrowful tidings home, and the old Squire was as much astonished and mystified
as every one else. None of us had the heart either to carry the sad news or even to send word
of it to Mrs. Kennard; but we notified the owner of the Percherons at once. He came to look
into the matter the next morning.

The affair made an unusual stir, and all that Monday a considerable number of persons walked
up to the clearing to see if they could determine the cause of the colts' mysterious death.
Many and various were the conjectures. Some professed to believe that the colts had been wantonly
poisoned. "It's a state-prison offense to lay poison for domestic animals," we overheard several
of them say; but no one could find any motive for such a deed.

The owner of the Percheron brought a horse doctor, who made a careful examination, but he was
unable to determine anything more than that the horses had died of a virulent poison. We buried
them that afternoon.

Before night the news had reached Mrs. Kennard. In her grief she not only reproached herself
bitterly for allowing Sylph to be turned out in so wild a place but held the old Squire and
all of us as somehow to blame for her pet's death. The owner of the Percherons also intimated
that he should hold us liable for his loss, although when a man turns his stock out in a neighbor's
pasture it is generally on the understanding that it is at his own risk. He took away his other
Percheron colt; and during the day all the other persons who had colts up there took their
animals home. In all respects the occurrence was most disagreeable--a truly black Monday with
us. The old Squire said little, except that he wanted the right thing done.

For an hour or more after we went to bed that night Addison and I lay talking about the affair,
but we could think of no explanation of the strange occurrence and at last fell asleep. The
next morning, however, the solution of the mystery flashed into Addison's mind. As we were
dressing at five o'clock, he suddenly turned to me and exclaimed in a queer voice:

"I know what killed those colts!"

"What?" I asked.

"That fox bed!"

For a whole minute we stood there, half dressed, looking at each other in consternation. Without
doubt, the blame for the loss of the colts was on us. What the consequences might be we hardly
dared to think.

"What shall we do?" I exclaimed.

Addison looked alarmed as he answered in a low tone, "Keep quiet--till we think it over."

"We must tell the old Squire," I said.

"But there's Willis," Addison reminded me. "It was Willis who made the bed, you know."

The old clearing was, as I have said, a great place for foxes; and the preceding fall Addison
and I, wishing to add to the fund we were accumulating for our expenses when we should go away
to college, had entered into a kind of partnership with Willis Murch to do a little trapping
up there. Addison and I were little more than silent partners, however; Willis actually tended
the traps.

But there are years, as every trapper knows, when you cannot get a fox into a steel trap by
any amount of artfulness. What the reason is, I do not know, unless some fox that has been
trapped and that has escaped passes the word round among all the other foxes. There were plenty
of foxes coming to the clearing; we never went up there without seeing fresh signs about the
old barn. Yet Willis got no fox.

What is more strange, it was so all over New England that fall; foxes kept clear of steel traps.
As the fur market was quick, certain city dealers began sending out offers of "fox pills" to
trappers whom they had on their lists. Willis received one of those letters and showed it to
us. The fox pills were, of course, poison and were to be inclosed in little balls of tallow
and laid where foxes were known to come.

Trappers were advised to use them but were properly cautioned how and where to expose them.
After picking up one of the pills, a fox would make for the nearest running water as fast as
he could go; and that was the place for the trapper to look for him, for, after drinking, the
fox soon expired. It has been argued that poison is more humane than the steel trap, since
it brings a quick death; but both are cruel. There are also other considerations that weigh
against the use of poison; but at that time there was no law against it.

The furrier who wrote to Willis offered to send him a box of those pills for seventy-five cents.
We talked it over and agreed to try it, and Addison and I contributed the money.

A few days later Willis received the pills and proceeded to lay them out after a plan of his
own. He cut several tallow candles into pieces about an inch long, and embedded a pill in each.
When he had prepared twenty or more of those pieces of poisoned tallow, he put them in what
he called a fox bed, of oat chaff, behind that old barn. The bed was about as large as the
floor of a small room. At that time of year farmers were killing poultry, and Willis collected
a basketful of chickens' and turkeys' heads to put into the bed along with the pieces of tallow.
He thought that the foxes would smell the heads and dig the bed over.

We had said nothing to any one about it. The old Squire was away from home; but we knew pretty
well that he would not approve of that method of getting foxes. Indeed, he had little sympathy
with the use of traps. Willis was the only one who looked after the bed, or, indeed, who went
up to the clearing at all.

During the next three or four weeks Willis gathered in not less than ten pelts, I think. They
were mostly red foxes, but one was a large "crossed gray," the skin of which brought twenty-two
dollars. After every few days Willis "doctored" the bed with more pills; he probably used more
than a hundred.

What had happened to the colts was now clear. They had nuzzled that chaff for the oat grains
that were left in it and had picked up some of those little balls of tallow. We wondered now
that we had not at once guessed the cause of their death, and we wondered, too, that we had
not thought of the fox bed and the danger from it when we first turned the colts into the pasture.
The fact remains, however, that it had never occurred to us that fox pills would poison colts
as well as foxes.

All that day as we worked we brooded over it; and that evening, when we had done the chores,
we stole off to the Murches' and, calling Willis out, told him about it and asked him what
he thought we had better do. At first he was incredulous, then thoroughly alarmed. It was not
so much the thought of having to settle for the loss of the horses that terrified him as it
was the dread that he might be imprisoned for exposing poison to domestic animals.

"Don't say a word!" he exclaimed. "Nobody knows about that fox bed. If we keep still, it will
never come out."

Addison and I both felt that such secrecy would leave us with a mighty mean feeling in our
hearts; but Willis begged us never to say a word about it to any one. He was as penitent as
we were, I think; but the thought that he might have to go to jail filled him with panic.

We went home in a very uncomfortable frame of mind, without having reached any decision.

"We've got to square this somehow," Addison said. "If I had the money, I'd settle for the colts
and say nothing more to Willis about it."

"Money wouldn't make Mrs. Kennard feel much better," I said.

"That's so; but we might find a pretty sorrel colt somewhere, and make her a present of it
in place, of Sylph--if we only had the money."

If it had not been for Willis, I rather think that we should have gone to the old Squire that
very evening and told him the whole story; but the legal consequences of the affair troubled
us, and since they affected Willis more than they affected us we did not like to say anything.

Week after week went by without our being able to bring ourselves to confess. The concealment
was a source of daily uneasiness to us; although we rarely spoke of the affair to each other,
it was always on our minds. Whenever we did speak of it together, Addison would say, "We've
got to straighten that out," or, "I hate to have that colt scrape hanging on us in this way."
We tried several times to get Willis's consent to our telling the old Squire; but he had brooded
over the thing so long that he had convinced himself that if his act became known he would
surely be sent to the penitentiary.

So there the matter lay covered up all summer until one afternoon in September, when the old
Squire drove to the village to contract for his apple barrels, and I went with him to get a
pair of boots. Just as we were starting for home we met Mrs. Kennard. Previously she had often
visited us at the farm, but since the death of Sylph she had not come near us. The old Squire
tried to-day to be more cordial than ever, but Mrs. Kennard answered him rather coldly. She
started on, but turned suddenly and asked whether we had learned anything more about the death
of those colts.

"And, oh, do you think that poor Sylph lay there, suffering, a long time?" she exclaimed, with
tears in her eyes. "I keep thinking of it."

"No, we have learned nothing more," the old Squire said gently. "It was a mysterious affair;
but I think all three of the colts died suddenly, within a few minutes."

That was all he could say to comfort her, and Mrs. Kennard walked slowly away with her handkerchief
at her eyes. It was painful, and I sat there in the wagon feeling like a mean little malefactor.

"Very singular about those colts," the old Squire remarked partly to me, partly to himself,
as we drove on. "A strange thing."

Sudden resolution nerved me. I was sick of skulking. "Sir," said I, swallowing hard several
times, "I know what killed those colts!"

The old Squire glanced quickly at me, started to speak, but, seeing how greatly agitated I
was, kindly refrained from questioning me.

"It was fox pills!" I blurted out. "Willis Murch and Ad and I had a fox bed up there last winter.
We never thought of it when the colts were put in. They ate the poison pills."

The old Squire made no comment, and I plunged into further details.

"That accounts for it, then," he said at last.

I had expected him to speak plainly to me about those fox pills, but he merely asked me what
I thought of using poison in trapping.

"I never would use it again!" I exclaimed hotly. "I've had enough of it!"

"I am glad you see it so," he remarked. "It is a bad method. You never know what may come of
it. Hounds or deer may get it, or sheep, or young cattle, or even children."

We drove on in silence for some minutes. Clearly the old Squire was having me do my own thinking;
for he now asked me what I thought should be done next.

"Ad thinks we ought to square it up somehow," I replied.

The old Squire nodded. "I am glad to hear that," he said. "What does Addison think we ought to do?"

"Pay Mr. Cutter for that Percheron colt."

"Yes, and Mrs. Kennard?"

"He thinks we could find another sorrel colt somewhere and make her a present of it."

The old Squire nodded again. "I see. Perhaps we can." Then, after a minute, "And what about
letting this be known?"

"Willis is scared," I said. "Addison thinks it would be about as well now to settle up if we
can and say nothing."

The old Squire did not reply to that for some moments. I thought he was not so well pleased.
"I do not believe that, in the circumstances, Willis need fear being imprisoned," he said finally,
"and I see no reason for further concealment. True, several months have passed and people have
mostly forgotten it; perhaps not much good would come from publishing the facts abroad. We'll
think it over."

After a minute he said, "I'm glad you told me this," and, turning, shook hands with me gravely.

"Ad and I don't want you to think that we expect you to square this up for us!" I exclaimed.
"We want to do something to pay the bill ourselves, and to pay you for Lib, too."

The old Squire laughed. "Yes, I see how you feel," he said. "Would you like me to give you
and Addison a job on shares this fall or winter, so that you could straighten this out?"

"Yes, sir, we would," said I earnestly. "And make Willis help, too!"

"Yes, yes," the old Squire said and laughed again. "I agree with you that Willis should do
his part. Nothing like square dealing, is there, my son?" he went on. "It makes us all feel
better, doesn't it?"

And he gave me a brisk little pat on the shoulder that made me feel quite like a man.

How much better I felt after that talk with the old Squire! I felt as blithe as a bird; and
when we got home I ran and frisked and whistled all the way to the pasture, where I went to
drive home the Jersey herd. The only qualm I felt was that I had acted without Addison's consent;
but his first words when I had told him relieved me on that score.

"I'm glad of it!" he said. "We've been in that fox bed long enough. Now let Willis squirm."
And when I told him of the old Squire's arrangement for our paying off the debt, he said, "That
suits me. But we'll make Willis work!"

We went over to tell Willis that evening. He was, I think, even more relieved than we were;
in the weeks of anxiety that he had passed he had determined that nothing would ever induce
him to use poison again for trapping animals.

At that time many new telegraph lines were being put up in Maine; and the old Squire had recently
accepted a contract for three thousand cedar poles, twenty feet long, at the rate of twenty-five
cents a pole. Up in lot "No. 5," near Lurvey's Stream, there was plenty of cedar suitable for
the purpose; the poles could be floated down to the point of delivery. The old Squire let us
furnish a thousand of those poles, putting in our own labor at cutting and hauling. And in
that way we earned the money to pay for the damage done by our fox pills.

Mr. Cutter, the owner of the Percheron, was willing to settle his loss for one hundred dollars;
and during the winter, by dint of many inquiries, we heard of another sorrel, a three-year-old,
which we purchased for a hundred and fifteen dollars. We took Mr. Kennard into our confidence
and with his connivance planned a pleasant surprise for his wife. While Theodora and Ellen,
who had accompanied us to the village, were entertaining Mrs. Kennard indoors, the old Squire
and Addison and I smuggled the colt into the little stable and put her in the same stall where
Sylph had once stood. When all was ready, Mr. Kennard went in and said:

"Louise, Sylph's got back! Come out to the stable!"

Wonderingly Mrs. Kennard followed him out to the stable. For a moment she gazed, astonished;
then, of course, she guessed the ruse. "Oh, but it isn't Sylph!" she cried. "It isn't half
so pretty!" And out came her pocket handkerchief again.

The old Squire took her gently by the hand. "It's the best we could do," he said. "We hope
you will accept her with our best wishes."

Truth to say, Mrs. Kennard's tears were soon dried; and before long the new colt became almost
as great a pet as the lost Sylph.

"Don't you ever forget, and don't you ever let me forget, how the old Squire has helped us
out of this scrape," Ad said to me that night after we had gone upstairs. "He's an old Christian.
If he ever needs a friend in his old age and I fail him, let my name be Ichabod!"

CHAPTER XIV

THE UNPARDONABLE SIN

During the first week in May the old Squire and grandmother Ruth made a trip to Portland, and
when they came back, they brought, among other presents to us young folks at home, a glass
jar of goldfish for Ellen.

In Ellen's early home, before the Civil War and before she came to the old Squire's to live,
there had always been a jar of goldfish in the window, and afterwards at the old farm the girl
had often remarked that she missed it. Well I remember the cry of joy she gave that day when
grandmother stepped down from the wagon at the farmhouse door and, turning, took a glass jar
of goldfish from under the seat.

"O grandmother!" she cried and fairly flew to take it from the old lady's hands.

Ellen had eyes for nothing else that evening, and as it grew dark she went time and again with
a lamp to look at the fish and to drop in crumbs of cracker.

During the four days the old folks were away we had run free; games and jokes had been in full
swing. There was still mischief in us, for the next morning when we came down to do the chores
before any one else was up, Addison said:

"Let's have some fun with Nell; she'll be down here pretty quick. Get some fish poles and strings
and bend up some pins for hooks and we'll pretend to be fishing in the jar!"

In a few minutes we each had rigged up a semblance of fishing tackle and were ready. When Ellen
opened the sitting-room door a little later the sight that met her astonished eyes took her
breath away. Addison was calmly fishing in the jar!

"What are you doing?" she cried. "My goldfish!"

Addison fled out of the room with Ellen in hot pursuit; she finally caught him, seized the
rod and broke it. But when she turned back to see what damages her adored fish had suffered,
she beheld Halstead, perched over the jar, also fishing in it.

"My senses! You here, too!" she cried. "Can't a boy see a fish without wanting to catch it?"

When she hurried back in a flurry of anxiety after chasing him to the carriage house, she found
me there, too, pretending to yank one out. But by this time she saw that it was a joke, and
the box on the ear that she gave me was not a very hard one.

"Seems to me, young folks, I heard quite too much noise down here for Sunday morning," grandmother
said severely when she appeared a little later. "Such racing and running! You really must have
better regard for the day."

Preparations for breakfast went on in a subdued manner, and we were sitting at table rather
quietly when a caller appeared at the door--Mrs. Rufus Sylvester, who lived about a mile from
us. Her face wore a look of anxiety.

"Squire," she exclaimed, "I implore you to come over and say something to Rufus! He's terrible
downcast this morning. He went out to the barn, but he hasn't milked, nor done his chores.
He's settin' out there with his face in his hands, groanin'. I'm afraid, Squire, he may try
to take his own life!"

The old Squire rose from the table and led Mrs. Sylvester into the sitting-room; grandmother
followed them and carefully shut the door behind her. We heard them speaking in low tones for
some moments; then they came out, and both the old Squire and grandmother Ruth set off with
Mrs. Sylvester.

"Is he ill?" Theodora whispered to grandmother as the old lady passed her.

"No, child; he is melancholy this spring," the old lady replied. "He is afraid he has committed
the unpardonable sin."

The old folks and our caller left us finishing our breakfast, and I recollect that for some
time none of us spoke. Our recent unseemly hilarity had vanished.

"What do you suppose Sylvester's done?" Halstead asked at last, with a glance at Theodora;
then, as she did not seem inclined to hazard conjectures on that subject, he addressed himself
to Addison, who was trying to extract a second cup of coffee from the big coffeepot.

"You know everything, Addison, or think you do. What is this unpardonable sin?"

"Cousin Halstead," Addison replied, not relishing the manner in which he had put the question,
"you are likely enough to find that out for yourself if you don't mend some of your bad ways here."

Halstead flamed up and muttered something about the self-righteousness of a certain member
of the family; but Theodora then remarked tactfully that, as nearly as she could understand
it, the unpardonable sin is something we do that can never be forgiven.

Some months before Elder Witham had preached a sermon in which he had set forth the doctrine
of predestination and the unpardonable sin, but I have to confess that none of us could remember
what he had said.

"I think it's in the Bible," Theodora added, and, going into the sitting-room, she fetched
forth grandmother Ruth's concordance Bible and asked Addison to help her find the references.
Turning first to one text, then to another, for some minutes they read the passages aloud,
but did not find anything conclusive. The discussion had put me in a rather disturbed state
of mind in regard to several things I had done at one time and another, and I suppose I looked
sober, for I saw Addison regarding me curiously. He continued to glance at me, clearly with
intention, and shook his head gloomily several times until Ellen noticed it and exclaimed in
my behalf, "Well, I guess he stands as good a chance as you do!"

Two hours or so later the old Squire and grandmother returned, thoughtfully silent; they did
not tell us what had occurred, and it was not until a good many years later, when Theodora,
Halstead and Addison had left the old farm, that I learned what had happened that morning at
the Sylvester place. The old Squire and I were driving home from the village when something
brought the incident to his mind, and, since I was now old enough to understand, he related
what had occurred.

When they reached the Sylvester farm that morning grandmother went indoors with Mrs. Sylvester,
and the old Squire proceeded to the barn. All was very dark and still there, and it was some
moments before he discovered Rufus; the man was sitting on a heckling block at the far dark
end of the barn, huddled down, with his head bowed in his hands.

"Good morning, neighbor!" the old Squire said cheerily. "A fine Sabbath morning. Spring never
looked more promising for us."

Rufus neither stirred nor answered. The old Squire drew near and laid his hand gently on his
shoulder.

"Is it something you could tell me about?" he asked.

Rufus groaned and raised two dreary eyes from his hands. "Oh, I can't! I'm 'shamed. It's nothin'
I can tell!" he cried out miserably and then burst into fearful sobs.

"Don't let me ask, then, unless you think it might do you good," the old Squire said.

"Nothin'll ever do me any good again!" Rufus cried. "I'm beyond it, Squire. I'm a lost soul.
The door of mercy is closed on me, Squire. I've committed the unpardonable sin!"

The old Squire saw that no effort to cheer Rufus that did not go to the root of his misery
would avail. Sitting down beside him, he said:

"A great many of us sometimes fear that we have committed the unpardonable sin. But there is
one sure way of knowing whether a person has committed it or not. I once knew a man who in
a drunken brawl had killed another. He was convicted of manslaughter, served his term in prison,
then went back to his farm and worked hard and well for ten years. One spring that former crime
began to weigh on his mind. He brooded on it and finally became convinced that he had committed
the sin for which there can be no forgiveness. He wanted desperately to atone for what he had
done, and the idea got possession of his mind that since he had taken a human life the only
way for him was to take his own life--a life for a life. The next morning they found that he
had hanged himself in his barn.

"The young minister who was asked to officiate at the funeral declined to do so on doctrinal
grounds; and the burial was about to take place without even a prayer at the grave when a stranger
hurriedly approached. He was a celebrated divine who had heard the circumstances of the man's
death and who had journeyed a hundred miles to offer his services at the burial.

"'My good friends,' the stranger began, 'I have come to rectify a great mistake. This poor
fellow mortal whose body you are committing to its last resting place mistook the full measure
of God's compassion. He believed that he had committed that sin for which there is no forgiveness.
In his extreme anxiety to atone for his former crime, he was led to commit another, for God
requires no man to commit suicide, and his Word expressly forbids it. My friends, I am here
to-day to tell you that there is only one sin for which there is no forgiveness, and that is
the sin which we do not repent. That alone is the unpardonable sin. This man was sincerely
sorry for his sin, and I am as certain that God has forgiven him as I am that I am standing
here by his grave.'"

As the old Squire spoke, Rufus raised his head, and a ray of hope broke across his woebegone face.

"Now the question is," the old Squire continued, "are you sorry for what you did?"

"Oh, yes, Squire, yes! I'm terribly sorry!" he cried eagerly. "I do repent of it! I never in
the world would do such a thing again!"

"Then what you have done was not the unpardonable sin at all!" the old Squire exclaimed confidently.

"Do you think so?" Rufus cried imploringly.

"I know so!" the old Squire declared authoritatively. "Now let's feed those cows and your horse.
Then we will go out and take a look at the fields where you are going to put in a crop this
spring."

When the old Squire and grandmother Ruth came away the shadows at the Sylvester farm had visibly
lifted, and life was resuming its normal course there. They had proceeded only a short distance
on their homeward way, however, when they heard footsteps behind, and saw Rufus hastening after
them bareheaded.

"Tell me, Squire, what d'ye think I ought to do about that--what I done once?" he cried.

"Well, Rufus," the old Squire replied, "that is a matter you must settle with your own conscience.
Since you ask me, I should say that, if the wrong you did can be righted in any way, you had
better try to right it."

"I will. I can. That's what I will do!" he exclaimed.

"I feel sure you will," the old Squire said; and Rufus went back, looking much relieved.

"Did you ever find out just what it was that Sylvester had done?" I asked.

"Well, never exactly," the old Squire replied, smiling. "But I made certain surmises. Less
than a fortnight after my talk with Rufus our neighbors, the Wilburs, were astonished one morning
to find that during the night a full barrel of salt pork had been set on their porch by the
kitchen door. Every mark had been carefully scraped off the barrel, but on the top head were
the words, printed with a lead pencil, 'This is yourn and I am sorry.'

"Fourteen years before, the Wilburs had lost a large hog very mysteriously. At that time domestic
animals were allowed to run about much more freely than at present, and they often strayed
along the highway. Sylvester was always in poor circumstances; and I believe that Wilbur's
hog came along the road by night and that Rufus was tempted to make way with it privately and
to conceal all traces of the theft.

"In spite of the words on the head of the barrel, Mr. Wilbur was in some doubt what to do with
the pork and asked my advice. I told him that if I were in his place I should keep it and say
nothing. But I didn't tell him of my talk with Sylvester about the unpardonable sin," the old
gentleman added, smiling. "That was hardly a proper subject for gossip."

CHAPTER XV

THE CANTALOUPE COAXER

Every spring at the old farm we used to put in a row of hills for cantaloupes and another for
watermelons. But, truth to say, our planting melons, like our efforts to raise peaches and
grapes, was always more or less of a joke, for frosts usually killed the vines before the melons
were half grown. Nevertheless, spring always filled us with fresh hope that the summer would
prove warm, and that frosts would hold off until October. But we never really raised a melon
fit for the table until the old Squire and Addison invented the "haymaker."

To make hay properly we thought we needed two successive days of sun. When rain falls nearly
every day haying comes to a standstill, for if the mown grass is left in the field it blackens
and rots; if it is drawn to the barn, it turns musty in the mow. Usually the sun does its duty,
but once in a while there comes a summer in Maine when there is so much wet weather that it
is nearly impossible to harvest the hay crop. Such a summer was that of 1868.

At the old farm our rule was to begin haying the day after the Fourth of July and to push the
work as fast as possible, so as to get in most of the crop before dog-days. That summer I remember
we had mowed four acres of grass on the morning of the fifth. But in the afternoon the sky
clouded, the night turned wet, and the sun scarcely showed again for a week. A day and a half
of clear weather followed; but showers came before the sodden swaths could be shaken up and
the moisture dried out, and then dull or wet days followed for a week longer; that is, to the
twenty-first of the month. Not a hundredweight of hay had we put into the barn, and the first
hay we had mown had spoiled in the field.

At such times the northeastern farmer must keep his patience--if he can. The old Squire had
seen Maine weather for many years and had learned the uselessness of fretting. He looked depressed,
but merely said that Halstead and I might as well begin going to the district school with the
girls.

In the summer we usually had to work on the farm during good weather, as boys of our age usually
did in those days; but it was now too wet to hoe corn or to do other work in the field. We
could do little except to wait for fair weather. Addison, who was older than I, did not go
back to school and spent much of the time poring over a pile of old magazines up in the attic.

Halstead and I had been going to school for four or five days when on coming home one afternoon
we found a great stir of activity round the west barn. Timbers and boards had been fetched
from an old shed on the "Aunt Hannah lot"--a family appurtenance of the home farm--and lay
heaped on the ground. Two of the hired men were laying foundation stones along the side of
the barn. Addison, who had just driven in with a load of long rafters from the old Squire's
mill on Lurvey's Stream, called to us to help him unload them.

"Why, what's going to be built?" we exclaimed.

"Haymaker," he replied shortly.

The answer did not enlighten us.

"'Haymaker'?" repeated Halstead wonderingly.

"Yes, haymaker," said Addison. "So bear a hand here. We've got to hurry, too, if we are to
make any hay this year." He then told us that the old Squire had driven to the village six
miles away, to get a load of hothouse glass. While we stood pondering that bit of puzzling
information, a third hired man drove into the yard on a heavy wagon drawn by a span of work
horses. On the wagon was the old fire box and the boiler of a stationary steam engine that
we had had for some time in the shook shop a mile down the road.

We learned at supper that Addison and the old Squire, having little to do that day except watch
the weather, had put their heads together and hatched a plan to make hay from freshly mown
grass without the aid of the sun. I have always understood that the plan originated in something
that Addison had read, or in some picture that he had seen in one of the magazines in the garret.
But the old Squire, who had a spice of Yankee inventiveness in him, had improved on Addison's
first notion by suggesting a glass roof, set aslant to a south exposure, so as to utilize the
rays of the sun when it did shine.

The haymaker was simply a long shed built against the south side of the barn. The front and
the ends were boarded up to a height of eight feet from the ground. At that height strong cedar
cross poles were laid, six inches apart, so as to form a kind of rack, on which the freshly
mown grass could be pitched from a cart.

The glass roof was put on as soon as the glass arrived; it slanted at an angle of perhaps forty
degrees from the front of the shed up to the eaves of the barn. The rafters, which were twenty-six
feet in length, were hemlock scantlings eight inches wide and two inches thick, set edgewise;
the panes of glass, which were eighteen inches wide by twenty-four inches long, were laid in
rows upon the rafters like shingles. The space between the rack of poles and the glass roof
was of course pervious to the sun rays and often became very warm. Three scuttles, four feet
square, set low in the glass roof and guarded by a framework, enabled us to pitch the grass
from the cart directly into the loft; and I may add here that the dried hay could be pitched
into the haymow through apertures in the side of the barn.

That season the sun scarcely shone at all. The old fire box and boiler were needed most of
the time. We installed the antiquated apparatus under the open floor virtually in the middle
of the long space beneath, where it served as a hot-air furnace. The tall smoke pipe rose to
a considerable height above the roof of the barn; and to guard against fire we carefully protected
with sheet iron everything round it and round the fire box. As the boiler was already worn
out and unsafe for steam, we put no water into it and made no effort to prevent the tubes from
shrinking. For fuel we used slabs from the sawmill. The fire box and boiler gave forth a great
deal of heat, which rose through the layer of grass on the poles.

The entire length of the loft was seventy-four feet, and the width was nineteen feet. We threw
the grass in at the scuttles and spread it round in a layer about eighteen inches thick. As
thus charged, the loft would hold about as much hay as grew on an acre. From four to seven
hours were needed to make the grass into hay, but the time varied according as the grass was
dry or green and damp when mown. Once in the haymaker it dried so fast that you could often
see a cloud of steam rising from the scuttles in the glass roof, which had to be left partly
open to make a draft from below.

Of course, we used artificial heat only in wet or cloudy weather. When the sun came out brightly
we depended on solar heat. Perhaps half a day served to make a "charge" of grass into hay,
if we turned it and shook it well in the loft. Passing the grass through the haymaker required
no more work than making hay in the field in good weather.

In subsequent seasons when the sun shone nearly every day during haying time we used it less.
But when thundershowers or occasional fogs or heavy dew came it was always open to us to put
the grass through the haymaker. In a wet season it gave us a delightful feeling of independence.
"Let it rain," the old Squire used to say with a smile. "We've got the haymaker."

Late in September the first fall after we built the haymaker, there came a heavy gale that
blew off fully one half the apple crop--Baldwins, Greenings, Blue Pearmains and Spitzenburgs.
Since we could barrel none of the windfalls as number one fruit, that part of our harvest,
more than a thousand bushels, seemed likely to prove a loss. The old Squire would never make
cider to sell; and we young folks at the farm, particularly Theodora and Ellen, disliked exceedingly
to dry apples by hand.

But there lay all those fair apples. It seemed such a shame to let them go to waste that the
matter was on all our minds. At the breakfast table one morning Ellen remarked that we might
use the haymaker for drying apples if we only had some one to pare and slice them.

"But I cannot think of any one," she added hastily, fearful lest she be asked to do the work
evenings.

"Nor can I," Theodora added with equal haste, "unless some of those paupers at the town farm
could be set about it."

"Poor paupers!" Addison exclaimed, laughing. "Too bad!"

"Lazy things, I say!" grandmother exclaimed. "There's seventeen on the farm, and eight of them
are abundantly able to work and earn their keep."

"Yes, if they only had the wit," the old Squire said; he was one of the selectmen that year,
and he felt much solicitude for the town poor.

"Perhaps they've wit enough to pare apples," Theodora remarked hopefully.

"Maybe," the old Squire said in doubt. "So far as they are able they ought to work, just as
those who have to support them must work."

The old Squire, after consulting with the two other selectmen, finally offered five of the
paupers fifty cents a day and their board if they would come to our place and dry apples. Three
of the five were women, one was an elderly man, and the fifth was a not over-bright youngster
of eighteen. So far from disliking the project all five hailed it with delight.

Having paupers round the place was by no means an unmixed pleasure. We equipped them with apple
parers, corers and slicers and set them to work in the basement of the haymaker. Large trays
of woven wire were prepared to be set in rows on the rack overhead. It was then October; the
fire necessary to keep the workers warm was enough to dry the trays of sliced apples almost
as fast as they could be filled.

For more than a month the five paupers worked there, sometimes well, sometimes badly. They
dried nearly two tons of apples, which, if I remember right, brought six cents a pound that
year. The profit from that venture alone nearly paid for the haymaker.

The weather was bright the next haying time, so bright indeed that it was scarcely worth while
to dry grass in the haymaker; and the next summer was just as sunny. It was in the spring of
that second year that Theodora and Ellen asked whether they might not put their boxes of flower
seeds and tomato seeds into the haymaker to give them an earlier start, for the spring suns
warmed the ground under the glass roof while the snow still lay on the ground outside. In Maine
it is never safe to plant a garden much before the middle of May; but we sometimes tried to
get an earlier start by means of hotbeds on the south side of the farm buildings. In that way
we used to start tomatoes, radishes, lettuce and even sweet corn, early potatoes, carrots and
other vegetables, and then transplanted them to the open garden when settled warm weather came.

The girls' suggestion gave us the idea of using the haymaker as a big hothouse. The large area
under glass made the scheme attractive. On the 2d of April we prepared the ground and planted
enough garden seeds of all kinds to produce plants enough for an acre of land. The plants came
up quickly and thrived and were successfully transplanted. A great victory was thus won over
adverse nature and climate. We had sweet corn, green peas and everything else that a large
garden yields a fortnight or three weeks earlier than we ever had had them before, and in such
abundance that we were able to sell the surplus profitably at the neighboring village.

The sweet corn, tomatoes and other vegetables were transplanted to the outer garden early in
June. Addison then suggested that we plant the ground under the haymaker to cantaloupes, and
on the 4th of June we planted forty-five hills with seed.

The venture proved the most successful of all. The melon plants came up as well as they could
have done in Colorado or Arizona. It is astonishing how many cantaloupes will grow on a plot
of ground seventy-four feet long by nineteen feet wide. On the 16th of September we counted
nine hundred and fifty-four melons, many of them large and nearly all of them yellow and finely
ripened! They had matured in ninety days.

In fact, the crop proved an "embarrassment of riches." We feasted on them ourselves and gave
to our neighbors, and yet our store did not visibly diminish. The county fair occurred on September
22 that fall; and Addison suggested loading a farm wagon--one with a body fifteen feet long--with
about eight hundred of the cantaloupes and tempting the public appetite--at ten cents a melon.
The girls helped us to decorate the wagon attractively with asters, dahlias, goldenrod and
other autumn flowers, and they lined the wagon body with paper. It really did look fine, with
all those yellow melons in it. We hired our neighbor, Tom Edwards, who had a remarkably resonant
voice, to act as a "barker" for us.

The second day of the fair--the day on which the greatest crowd usually attends--we arrived
with our load at eight o'clock in the morning, took up a favorable position on the grounds
and cut a couple of melons in halves to show how yellow and luscious they were.

"All ready, now, Tom!" Addison exclaimed when our preparations were made. "Let's hear you earn
that two dollars we've got to pay you."

Walking round in circles, Tom began:

"Muskmelons! Muskmelons grown under glass! Home-grown muskmelons! Maine muskmelons grown under
a glass roof! Sweet and luscious! Only ten cents! Walk up, ladies and gentlemen, and see what
your old native state can do--under glass! Walk up, young fellows, and treat your girls! Don't
be stingy! Only ten cents apiece--and one of these luscious melons will treat three big girls
or five little ones! A paper napkin with every melon! Don't wait! They are going fast! All
be gone before ten o'clock! Try one and see what the old Pine Tree State will do--under glass!"

That is far from being the whole of Tom's "ballyhoo." Walking round and round in ever larger
circles, he constantly varied his praises and his jokes. But the melons were their own best
advertisement. All who bought them pronounced them delicious; and frequently they bought one
or two more to prove to their friends how good they were.

At ten o'clock we still had a good many melons; but toward noon business became very brisk,
and at one o'clock only six melons were left.

In honor of this crop we rechristened the old haymaker the "cantaloupe coaxer."

CHAPTER XVI

THE STRANGE DISAPPEARANCE OF GRANDPA EDWARDS

There was so much to do at the old farm that we rarely found time to play games. But we had
a croquet set that Theodora, Ellen and their girl neighbor, Catherine Edwards, occasionally
carried out to a little wicketed court just east of the apple house in the rear of the farm
buildings.

Halstead rather disdained the game as too tame for boys and Addison so easily outplayed the
rest of us that there was not much fun in it for him, unless, as Theodora used to say, he played
with one hand in his pocket. But as we were knocking the balls about one evening while we decided
which of us should play, we saw Catherine crossing the west field. She had heard our voices
and was making haste to reach us. As she approached, we saw that she looked anxious.

"Has grandpa been over here to-day?" her first words were. "He's gone. He went out right after
breakfast this morning, and he hasn't come back.

"After he went out, Tom saw him down by the line wall," she continued hurriedly. "We thought
perhaps he had gone to the Corners by the meadow-brook path. But he didn't come to dinner.
We are beginning to wonder where he is. Tom's just gone to the Corners to see if he is there."

"Why, no," we said. "He hasn't been here to-day."

The two back windows at the rear of the kitchen were down, and Ellen, who was washing dishes
there, overheard what Catherine had said, and spoke to grandmother Ruth, who called the old Squire.

"That's a little strange," he said when Catherine had repeated her tidings to him. "But I rather
think it is nothing serious. He may have gone on from the Corners to the village. I shouldn't
worry."

Grandpa Jonathan Edwards--distantly related to the stern New England divine of that name--was
a sturdy, strong old man sixty-seven years of age, two years older than our old Squire, and
a friend and neighbor of his from boyhood. With this youthful friend, Jock, the old Squire--who
then of course was young--had journeyed to Connecticut to buy merino sheep: that memorable
trip when they met with Anice and Ruth Pepperill, the two girls whom they subsequently married
and brought home.

For the last seventeen years matters had not been going prosperously or happily at the Edwards
farm. Jonathan's only son, Jotham (Catherine and Tom's father), had married at the age of twenty
and come home to live. The old folks gave him the deed of the farm and accepted only a "maintenance"
on it--not an uncommon mode of procedure. Quite naturally, no doubt, after taking the farm
off his father's hands, marrying and having a family of his own, this son, Jotham, wished to
manage the farm as he saw fit. He was a fairly kind, well-meaning man, but he had a hasty temper
and was a poor manager. His plans seemed never to prosper, and the farm ran down, to the great
sorrow and dissatisfaction of his father, Jonathan, whose good advice was wholly disregarded.
The farm lapsed under a mortgage; the buildings went unrepaired, unpainted; and the older man
experienced the constant grief of seeing the place that had been so dear to him going wrong
and getting into worse condition every year.

Of course we young folks did not at that time know or understand much about all this; but I
have learned since that Jonathan often unbosomed his troubles to the old Squire, who sympathized
with him, but who could do little to improve matters.

Jotham's wife was a worthy woman, and I never heard that she did not treat the old folks well.
It was the bad management and the constantly growing stress of straitened circumstances that
so worried Jonathan.

Then, two years before we young folks came home to live at the old Squire's, Aunt Anice, as
the neighbors called her, died suddenly of a sharp attack of pleurisy. That left Jonathan alone
in the household of his son and family. He seemed, so the old Squire told me later, to lose
heart entirely after that, and sat about or wandered over the farm in a state of constant discontent.

I fear, too, that his grandson, Tom, was not an unmixed comfort to him. Tom did not mean to
hurt his grandfather's feelings. He was a good-hearted boy, but impetuous and somewhat hasty.
More than once we heard him go on to tell what great things he meant to do at home, "after
grandpa dies." Grandpa, indeed, may sometimes have heard him say that; and it is the saddest,
most hopeless thing in life for elderly people to come to see that the younger generation is
only waiting for them to die. If Grandpa Edwards had been very infirm, he might not have cared
greatly; but, as I have said, at sixty-seven he was still hale and, except for a little rheumatism,
apparently well.

Tom came home from the Corners that night without having learned anything of Grandpa Edwards's
whereabouts. In the course of the evening his disappearance became known throughout the vicinity.
The first conjectures were that he had set off on a visit somewhere and would soon return.
Paying visits was not much after his manner of life; yet his family half believed that he had
gone off to cheer himself up a bit. Jotham and his wife, and Catherine, too, now remembered
that he had been unusually silent for a week. A search of the room he occupied showed that
he had gone away wearing his every-day clothes. I remember that the old Squire and grandmother
Ruth looked grave but said very little. Grandpa Edwards was not the kind of man to get lost.
Of course he might have had a fall while tramping about and injured himself seriously or even
fatally; but neither was that likely.

For several days, therefore, his family and his neighbors waited for him to return of his own
accord. But when a week or more passed and he did not come anxiety deepened; and his son and
the neighbors bestirred themselves to make wider inquiries. Tardily, at last, a considerable
party searched the woods and the lake shores; and finally as many as fifty persons turned out
and spent a day and a night looking for him.

"They will not find him," the old Squire remarked with a kind of sad certainty; and he did
not join the searchers himself or encourage us boys to do so. I think that both he and grandmother
Ruth partly feared that, as the old lady quaintly expressed it, "Jonathan had been left to
take his own life," in a fit of despondency.

The disappearance was so mysterious, indeed, and some people thought so suspicious, that the
town authorities took it up. The selectmen came to the Edwards farm and made careful inquiries
into all the circumstances in order to make sure there had been nothing like wrongdoing. There
was not, however, the least circumstance to indicate anything of that kind. Grandfather Jonathan
had walked away no one knew where; Jotham and his wife knew no more than their neighbors. They
did not know what to think. Perhaps they feared they had not treated their father well. They
said little, but Catherine and Tom talked of it in all innocence. Supposed clues were reported,
but they led to nothing and were soon abandoned. The baffling mystery of it remained and throughout
that entire season cast its shadow on the community. It passed from the minds of us young people
much sooner than from the minds of our elders. In the rush of life we largely ceased to think
of it; but I am sure it was often in the thoughts of the old Squire and grandmother. With them
months and even years made little difference in their sense of loss, for no tidings came--none
at least that were ever made public; but thereby hangs the strangest part of this story.

The old Squire, as I have often said, was a lumberman as well as a farmer. For a number of
years he was in company with a Canadian at Three Rivers in the Province of Quebec, and had
lumber camps on the St. Maurice River as well as nearer home in Maine. After the age of seventy-three
he gave up active participation in the Quebec branch of the business, but still retained an
interest in it; and this went on for ten years or more. The former partner in Canada then died,
and the business had to be wound up.

Long before that time Theodora, Halstead and finally Ellen had left home and gone out into
the world for themselves, and as the old Squire was now past eighty we did not quite like to
have him journey to Canada. He was still alert, but after an attack of rheumatic fever in the
winter of 1869 his heart had disclosed slight defects; it was safer for him not to exert himself
so vigorously as formerly; and as the partnership had to be terminated legally he gave me the
power of attorney to go to Three Rivers and act for him.

I was at a sawmill fifteen miles out of Three Rivers for a week or more; but the day I left
I came back to that place on a buckboard driven by a French habitant of the locality. On our
way we passed a little stumpy clearing where there was a small, new, very tidy house, neatly
shingled and clapboarded, with plots of bright asters and marigolds about the door. Adjoining
was an equally tidy barn, and in front one of the best-kept, most luxuriant gardens I had ever
seen in Canada. Farther away was an acre of ripening oats and another of potatoes. A Jersey
cow with her tinkling bell was feeding at the borders of the clearing. Such evidences of care
and thrift were so unusual in that northerly region that I spoke of it to my driver.

"Ah, heem ole Yarnkee man," the habitant said. "Heem work all time."

As if in confirmation of this remark an aged man, hearing our wheels, rose suddenly in the
garden where he was weeding, with his face toward us. Something strangely familiar in his looks
at once riveted my attention. I bade the driver stop and, jumping out, climbed the log fence
inclosing the garden and approached the old man.

"Isn't your name Edwards--Jonathan Edwards?" I exclaimed.

He stood for some moments regarding me without speaking. "Wal, they don't call me that here,"
he said at last, still regarding me fixedly.

I told him then who I was and how I had come to be there. I was not absolutely certain that
it was Grandpa Edwards, yet I felt pretty sure. His hair was a little whiter and his face somewhat
more wrinkled; yet he had changed surprisingly little. His hearing, too, did not appear to
be much impaired, and he was doing a pretty good job of weeding without glasses.

I could see that he was in doubt about admitting his identity to me. "It is only by accident
I saw you," I said. "I did not come to find you."

Still he did not speak and seemed disinclined to do so, or to admit anything about himself.
I was sorry that I had stopped to accost him, but now that I had done so I went on quite as
a matter of course to give him tidings of the old Squire and of grandmother Ruth. "They are
both living and well; they speak of you at times," I said. "Your disappearance grieved them.
I don't think they ever blamed you."

His face worked strangely; his hands, grasping the hoe handle, shook; but still he said nothing.

"Have you ever had word from your folks at the old farm?" I asked him at length. "Have you
had any news of them at all?"

He shook his head. I then informed him that his son Jotham had died four years before; that
Tom had gone abroad as an engineer; that Catherine was living at home, managing the old place
and doing it well; that she had paid off the mortgage and was prospering.

He listened in silence; but his face worked painfully at times.

As I was speaking an elderly woman came to the door of the house and stood looking toward us.

"That is my wife," he said, noticing that I saw her. "She is a good woman. She takes good care
of me."

I felt that it would be unkind to press him further and turned to go.

"Would you like to send any word to your folks or to grandmother and the old Squire?" I asked.

"Better not," said he with a kind of solemn sullenness. "I am out of all that. I'm the same's
dead."

I could see that he wished it so. He had not really and in so many words acknowledged his identity;
but when I turned to go he followed me to the log fence round the garden and as I got over
grasped my hand and held on for the longest time! I thought he would never let go. His hand
felt rather cold. I suppose the sight of me and the home speech brought his early life vividly
back to him. He swallowed hard several times without speaking, and again I saw his wrinkled
face working. He let go at last, went heavily back and picked up his hoe; and as we drove on
I saw him hoeing stolidly.

The driver said that he had cleared up the little farm and built the log house and barn all
by his own labor. For five years he had lived alone, but later he had married the widow of
a Scotch immigrant. I noticed that this French-Canadian driver called him "M'sieur Andrews."
It would seem that he had changed his name and begun anew in the world--or had tried to. How
far he had succeeded I am unable to say.

I could not help feeling puzzled as well as depressed. The proper course under such circumstances
is not wholly clear. Had his former friends a right to know what I had discovered? Right or
wrong, what I decided on was to say nothing so long as the old man lived. Three years afterwards
I wrote to a person whose acquaintance I had made at Three Rivers, asking him whether an old
American, residing at a place I described, were still living, and received a reply saying that
he was and apparently in good health. But two years later this same Canadian acquaintance,
remembering my inquiry, wrote to say that the old man I had once asked about had just died,
but that his widow was still living at their little farm and getting along as well as could
be expected.

Then one day as the old Squire and I were driving home from a grange meeting I told him what
I had learned five years before concerning the fate of his old friend. It was news to him,
and yet he did not appear to be wholly surprised.

"I don't know, sir, whether I have done right or not, keeping this from you so long," I said
after a moment of silence.

"I think you did perfectly right," the old Squire said after a pause. "You did what I myself,
I am sure, would have done under the circumstances."

"Shall you tell grandmother Ruth?" I asked.

The old Squire considered it for several moments before he ventured to speak again. At last
he lifted his head.

"On the whole I think it will be better if we do not," he replied. "It will give her a great
shock, particularly Jonathan's second marriage up there in Canada. His disappearance has now
largely faded from her mind. It is best so.

"Not that I justify it," he continued. "I think really that he did a shocking thing. But I
understand it and overlook it in him. He bore his life there with Jotham just as long as he
could. Jock had that kind of temperament. After Anice died there was nothing to keep him there.

"The fault was not all with Jotham," the old Squire continued reflectively. "Jotham was just
what he was, hasty, willful and a poor head for management. No, the real fault was in the mistake
in giving up the farm and all the rest of the property to Jotham when he came home to live.
Jonathan should have kept his farm in his own hands and managed it himself as long as he was
well and retained his faculties. True, Jotham was an only child and very likely would have
left home if he couldn't have had his own way; but that would have been better, a thousand
times better, than all the unhappiness that followed.

"No," the old Squire said again with conviction, "I don't much believe in elderly people's
deeding away their farms or other businesses to their sons as long as they are able to manage
them for themselves. It is a very bad method and has led to a world of trouble."

The old gentleman stopped suddenly and glanced at me.

"My boy, I quite forgot that you are still living at home with me and perhaps are beginning
to think that it is time you had a deed of the old farm," he said in an apologetic voice.

"No, sir!" I exclaimed vehemently, for I had learned my lesson from what I had seen up in Canada.
"You keep your property in your own hands as long as you live. If you ever see symptoms in
me of wanting to play the Jotham, I hope that you will put me outside the house door and shut
it on me!"

The old Squire laughed and patted my shoulder affectionately.

"Well, I'm eighty-three now, you know," he said slowly. "It can hardly be such a very great while."

I shook my head by way of protest, for the thought was an exceedingly unpleasant one.

However, the old gentleman only laughed again.

"No, it can hardly be such a very great while," he repeated.

But he lived to be ninety-eight, and I can truly say that those last years with him at the
old farm, going about or driving round together, were the happiest of my life.

CHAPTER XVII

OUR FOURTH OF JULY AT THE DEN

Farm work as usual occupied us quite closely during May and June that year; and ere long we
began to think of what we would do on the approaching Fourth of July. So far as we could hear,
no public celebration was being planned either at the village in our own town, or in any of
the towns immediately adjoining. Apparently we would have to organize our own celebration,
if we had one; and after talking the matter over with the other young folks of the school district,
we decided to celebrate the day by making a picnic excursion to the "Den," and carrying out
a long contemplated plan for exploring it.

The Den was a pokerish cavern near Overset Pond, nine or ten miles to the northeast of the
old Squire's place, about which clung many legends.

In the spring of 1839 a large female panther is said to have been trapped there, and an end
made of her young family. Several bears, too, had been surprised inside the Den, for the place
presented great attractions as a secure retreat from winter cold. But the story that most interested
us was a tradition that somewhere in the recesses of the cave the notorious Androscoggin Indian
Adwanko had hidden a bag of silver money that he had received from the French for the scalps
of white settlers.

The entrance to the cave fronts the pond near the foot of a precipitous mountain, called the
Fall-off. A wilder locality, or one of more sinister aspect, can hardly be imagined. The cave
is not spacious within; it is merely a dark hole among great granite rocks. By means of a lantern
or torch you can penetrate to a distance of seventy feet or more.

One day when three of us boys had gone to Overset Pond to fish for trout we plucked up our
courage and crawled into it. We crept along for what seemed to us a great distance till we
found the passage obstructed by a rock that had apparently fallen from overhead. We could move
the stone a little, but we did not dare to tamper with it much, for fear that other stones
from above would fall. We believed that Adwanko's bag of silver was surely in some recess beyond
the rock and at once began to lay plans for blasting out the stone with powder. By using a
long fuse, the person that fired the charge would have time to get out before the explosion.

Our party drove there in five double-seated wagons as far as Moose-Yard Brook, where we left
the teams and walked the remaining two miles through the woods to Overset Pond. Besides five
of us from the old Squire's, there were our two young neighbors, Thomas and Catherine Edwards,
Willis Murch and his older brother, Ben, the two Darnley boys, Newman and Rufus, their sister,
Adriana, and ten or twelve other young people.

Besides luncheon baskets and materials to make lemonade, we had taken along axes, two crowbars,
two lanterns, four pounds of blasting powder and three feet of safety fuse. My cousin Addison
had also brought a hammer, drill and "spoon." The girls were chiefly interested in the picnic;
but we boys were resolved to see what was in the depths of the cave, and immediately on reaching
the place several of us lighted the lanterns and went in.

At no place could we stand upright. Apparently some animal had wintered there, for the interior
had a rank odor; but we crawled on over rocks until we came to the obstructing stone sixty
or seventy feet from the entrance.

We had planned to drill a hole in the rock, blast it into pieces, and thus clear a passage
to what lay beyond it. On closer inspection, however, we found that it was almost impossible
to set the drill and deal blows with the hammer. But the stone rested on another rock, and
we believed that we could push powder in beneath it and so get an upward blast that would heave
the stone either forward or backward, or perhaps even break it in halves. We therefore set
to work, thrusting the powder far under the stone with a blunt stick, until we had a charge
of about four pounds. When we had connected the fuse we heaped sand about the base of the stone,
to confine the powder.

The blast was finally ready; and then the question who should fire it arose. The three feet
of fuse would, we believed, give two full minutes for whoever lighted it to get out of the
Den; but fuse sometimes burns faster than is expected, and the safety fuse made in those days
was not so uniform in quality as that of present times. At first no one seemed greatly to desire
the honor of touching it off. The boys stood and joked one another about it, while the girls
looked on from a safe distance.

"I shan't feel offended if any one gets ahead of me," Addison remarked carelessly.

"I'd just as soon have some one else do it," Ben said, smiling.

I had no idea of claiming the honor myself. Finally, after more bantering, Rufus Darnley cried,
"Who's afraid? I'll light it. Two minutes is time enough to get out."

Rufus was not largely endowed with mother wit, or prudence. His brother Newman and his sister
Adriana did not like the idea of his setting off the blast--in fact, none of us did; but Rufus
wanted to show off a bit, and he insisted upon going in. Thereupon Ben, the oldest of the young
fellows present, said quietly that he would go in with Rufus and light the fuse himself while
Rufus held the lantern.

"I'll shout when I touch the match to the fuse," he said, "so that you can get away from the
mouth of the cave."

They crept in, and the rest of us stood round, listening for the signal. Several minutes passed,
and we wondered what could be taking them so long. At last there came a muffled shout, and
all of us, retreating twenty or thirty yards, watched for Ben and Rufus to emerge. Some of
us were counting off the seconds. We could hear Ben and Rufus coming, climbing over the rocks.
Then suddenly there was an outcry and the sound of tinkling glass. At the same instant Ben
emerged, but immediately turned and went back into the cave.

"Hurry, Rufe!" we heard him call out. "What's the matter? Hurry, or it will go off!"

Consternation fell on us, and some of us started for the mouth of the cave; but before we had
gone more than five paces Ben sprang forth. He had not dared to remain an instant longer--and,
indeed, he was scarcely outside when the explosion came. It sounded like a heavy jolt deep
inside the mountain.

To our horror a huge slab of rock, thirty or forty feet up the side of the Fall-off, started
to slide with a great crunching and grinding; then, gathering momentum, it plunged down between
us and the mouth of the cave and completely shut the opening from view. Powder smoke floated
up from behind the slab.

There was something so terrible in the suddenness of the catastrophe that the whole party seemed
crazed. The boys, shouting wildly, swarmed about the fallen rock; the girls ran round, imploring
us to get Rufus out. Rufus's sister Adriana, beside herself with terror, was screaming; and
we could hardly keep Newman Darnley from attacking Ben Murch, who, he declared, should have
brought Rufus out!

At first we were afraid that the explosion had killed Rufus; but almost immediately we heard
muffled cries for help from the cave. He was still alive, but we had no way of knowing how
badly he was hurt. Adriana fairly flew from one to another, beseeching us to save him.

"He's dying! He's under the rocks!" she screamed. "Oh, why don't you get him out?"

With grave faces Willis, Ben, Addison and Thomas peered round the fallen rock and cast about
for some means of moving it.

"We must pry it away!" Thomas exclaimed. "Let's get a big pry!"

"We can't move that rock!" Ben declared. "We shall have to drill it and blast it."

But we had used all the powder and fuse, and it would take several hours to get more. Ben insisted,
however, on sending Alfred Batchelder for the powder, and then, seizing the hammer and drill,
he began to drill a hole in the side of the rock.

Thomas, however, still believed that we could move the rock by throwing our united weight on
a long pry; and many of the boys agreed with him. We felled a spruce tree seven inches in diameter,
trimmed it and cut a pry twenty feet long from it. Carrying it to the rock, we set a stone
for a fulcrum, and then threw our weight repeatedly on the long end. The rock, which must have
weighed ten tons or more, scarcely stirred. Ben laughed at us scornfully and went on drilling.

All the while Adriana stood weeping, and the other girls were shedding tears in sympathy. Rufus's
distressed cries came to our ears, entreating us to help him and saying something that we could
not understand about his leg.

As Addison stood racking his brain for some quicker way of moving the rock he remembered a
contrivance, called a "giant purchase," that he had heard of lumbermen's using to break jams
of logs on the Androscoggin River. He had never seen one and had only the vaguest idea how
it worked. All he knew was that it consisted of an immense lever, forty feet long, laid on
a log support and hauled laterally to and fro by horses. He knew that you could thus get a
titanic application of power, for if the long arm of the lever were forty feet long and the
short arm four feet, the strength of three horses pulling on the long arm would be increased
tenfold--that is, the power of thirty horses would be applied against the object to be moved.

Addison explained his plan to the rest of us. He sent Thomas and me to lead several of our
horses up through the woods to the pond. We ran all the way; and we took the whippletrees off
the double wagons, and brought all the spare rope halters. Within an hour we were back there
with four of the strongest horses.

Meanwhile the others had been busy; even Ben had been persuaded to drop his drilling and to
help the other boys cut the great lever--a straight spruce tree forty or forty-five feet tall.
The girls, too, had worked; they had even helped us drag the two spruce logs for the lever
to slide on. In fact, every one had worked with might and main in a kind of breathless anxiety,
for Rufus's very life seemed to be hanging on the success of our exertions.

A few feet to the left of the fallen rock was another boulder that served admirably for a fulcrum,
and before long we had the big lever in place with the end of the short arm bearing against
the fallen slab. When we had attached the horses to the farther end, Addison gave the word
to start. As the horses gathered themselves for the pull we watched anxiously. The great log
lever, which was more than a foot in diameter, bent visibly as they lunged forward.

Every eye was now on the rock, and when it moved,--for move it did,--such a cry of joy rose
as the shores of that little pond had never echoed before! The great slab ground heavily against
the other rocks, but moved for three or four feet, exposing in part the mouth of the cave--the
same little dark chink that affords entrance to the Den to-day.

Other boulders prevented the rock from moving farther, and, although the horses surged at the
lever, and we boys added our strength, the slab stuck fast; but an aperture twenty inches wide
had been uncovered, wide enough to enable any one to enter the Den.

Ben, Willis and Edgar Wilbur crept in, followed by Thomas with a lantern; and after a time
they brought Rufus out. We learned then that in his haste after the fuse was lighted he had
fallen over one of the large rocks and, striking his leg on another stone, had broken the bone
above the knee. He suffered not a little when the boys were drawing him out at the narrow chink
beside the rock; but he was alive, and that was a matter for thankfulness.

Thomas went back to get the lantern that Rufus had dropped. It had fallen into a crevice between
two large rocks, and while searching for it Thomas found another lantern there, of antique
pattern. It was made of tin and was perforated with holes to emit the light; it seemed very
old. Underneath where it lay Thomas also discovered a man's waistcoat, caked and sodden by
the damp. In one pocket was a pipe, a rusted jackknife and what had once been a piece of tobacco.
In the other pocket were sixteen large, old, red copper cents, one of which was a "boobyhead" cent.

We never discovered to whom that treasure-trove belonged. It could hardly have been Adwanko's,
for one of the copper cents bore the date of 1830. Perhaps the owner of it had been searching
for Adwanko's money; but why he left his lantern and waistcoat behind him remains a mystery.
Our chief care was now for Rufus. We made a litter of poles and spruce boughs, and as gently
as we could carried the sufferer through the woods down to the wagons, and slowly drove him
home. Seven or eight weeks passed before he was able to walk again, even with the aid of a crutch.

Our plan of exploring the Den had been wholly overshadowed. We even forgot the luncheon baskets;
and no one thought of ascertaining what the blast had accomplished. When we went up to the
cave some months later we found that the blast had done very little; it had moved the rock
slightly, but not enough to open the passage; and so it remains to this day. Old Adwanko's
scalp money is still there--if it ever was there; but it is my surmise that the cruel redskin
is much more likely to have spent his blood money for rum than to have left it behind him in
the Den.

CHAPTER XVIII

JIM DOANE'S BANK BOOK

During the month of June that summer there was a very ambiguous affair at our old place.

Nowadays, if you lose your savings-bank book all you have to do is to notify the bank to stop
payment on it. In many other ways, too, depositors are now safeguarded from loss. Forty years
ago, however, when savings banks were newer and more autocratic, it was different. The bank
book was then something tremendously important, or at least depositors thought so.

When the savings bank at the village, six miles from the old home farm in Maine, first opened
for business, Mr. Burns, the treasurer, gave each new depositor a sharp lecture. He was a large
man with a heavy black beard; as he handed the new bank book to the depositor, he would say
in a dictatorial tone:

"Now here is your bank book." What emphasis he put on those words! "It shows you what you have
at the bank. Don't fold it. Don't crumple it. Don't get it dirty. But above all things don't
lose it, or let it be stolen from you. If you do, you may lose your entire deposit. We cannot
remember you all. Whoever brings your book here may draw out your money. So put this book in
a safe place, and keep a sharp eye on it. Remember every word I have told you, or we will not
be responsible."

The old Squire encouraged us to have a nest egg at the bank, and by the end of the year there
were seven bank books at the farm, all carefully put away under lock and key, in fact there
were nine, counting the two that belonged to our hired men, Asa and Jim Doane. Acting on the
old Squire's exhortation to practise thrift, they vowed that they would lay up a hundred dollars
a year from their wages. The Doanes had worked for us for three or four years. Asa was a sturdy
fellow of good habits; but Jim, his younger brother, had a besetting sin. About once a month,
sometimes oftener, he wanted a playday; we always knew that he would come home from it drunk,
and that we should have to put him away in some sequestered place and give him a day in which
to recover.

For two or three days afterwards Jim would be the meekest, saddest, most shamefaced of human
beings. At table he would scarcely look up; and there is not the least doubt that his grief
and shame were genuine. Yet as surely as the months passed the same feverish restlessness would
again show itself in him.

We came to recognize Jim's symptoms only too well, and knew, when we saw them, that he would
soon have to have another playday. In fact, if the old Squire refused to let him off on such
occasions, Jim would get more and more restless and two or three nights afterwards would steal
away surreptitiously.

"Jim's a fool!" his brother, Asa, often said impatiently. "He isn't fit to be round here."

But the Squire steadily refused to turn Jim off. Many a time the old gentleman sat up half
the night with the returned and noisy prodigal. A word from the Squire would calm Jim for the
time and would occasionally call forth a burst of repentant tears. Jim's case, indeed, was
one of the causes that led us at the old farm so bitterly to hate intoxicants.

That, however, is the dark side of Jim's infirmity; one of its more amusing sides was his bank
book. When Jim was himself, as we used to say of him, he wanted to do well and to thrive like
Asa, and he asked the old Squire to hold back ten dollars from his wages every month and to
deposit it for him in the new savings bank. Mindful of his infirmity, Jim gave his bank book
to grandmother to keep for him.

"Hide it," he used to say to her. "Even if I come and want it, don't you let me have it."

That was when Jim was himself; but when he had gone for a playday, he came rip-roariously home,
time and again, and demanded his book, to get more money for drink. The scrimmages that grandmother
had with him about that book would have been highly ludicrous if a vein of tragedy had not
run underneath them.

One cause of Jim's inconsistent behavior about his bank account was the bad company he fell
into on his playdays. After he had imbibed somewhat, those boon companions would urge him to
go home and get his bank book; for under the influence of drink Jim was a noisy talker and
likely to boast of his savings.

None of us, except grandmother, knew where Jim's bank book was, and after one memorable experience
with him the old lady always disappeared when she saw him drive in. The second time, Jim actually
searched the house for his book; but grandmother had taken it and stolen away to a neighbor's
house. Once or twice afterwards Jim came and searched for his book; and I remember that the
old Squire had doubts whether it was best for us to withhold it from him. Grandmother, however,
had no such scruples.

"He shan't have it! Those rum sellers shan't get it from him!" she exclaimed.

When he had recovered from the effects of his playday Jim was always fervently glad that he
had not spent his savings.

But his bad habits rapidly grew on him, and we fully expected that his savings, which, thanks
to grandmother's resolute efforts, now amounted to nearly four hundred dollars, would eventually
be squandered on drink.

"It's no use," Addison often said. "It will all go that way in the end, and the more there
is of it the worse will be the final crash."

Others thought so, too--among them Miss Wilma Emmons, who taught the district school that summer.
Miss Emmons was tall, slight and pale, with dark hair and large light-blue eyes. She would
have been very pretty except for her very high, narrow forehead that not even her hair, combed
low, could prevent from being noticeable. She made you feel that she was constantly intent
on something that worried her.

As time passed, we came to learn the cause of her anxiety. She had two brothers, younger than
herself, bright, promising boys whom she was trying to help through college. The three were
orphans, without means; and Wilma was working hard, summer and winter, at anything and everything
that offered profit, in an effort to give those boys a liberal education; besides teaching
school, she went round the countryside in all weathers selling books, maps and sewing machines.
Her devotion to those brothers was of course splendid, yet I now think that Wilma, temperamental
and overworked, had let it become a kind of monomania with her.

A few days after she came to board at the old Squire's--all the school-teachers boarded there--Addison
said to me that he wondered what that girl had on her mind.

As the summer passed, Wilma Emmons came to know our affairs at the old farm very well, and
of course heard about Jim and his bank book. Jim, in fact, had taken one of his playdays soon
after she came; and grandmother asked Wilma to lock the book up in the drawer of her desk at
the schoolhouse for a few days.

It was quite like Jim Doane's impulsive nature, already somewhat unbalanced by intoxicants,
to be greatly attracted to the reserved Miss Emmons. Out by the garden gate one morning he
rather foolishly made his admiration known to her. Addison and I were weeding a strawberry
bed just inside the fence and could not avoid overhearing something of what passed.

Astonished and a little indignant, too, perhaps, Miss Emmons told Jim that a young man of his
habits had no right to address himself in such a manner to any young woman.

"But I can reform!" Jim said.

"Let folks see that you have done so, then," Miss Emmons replied, and added that a young man
who could not be trusted with his own bank book could hardly be depended on to make a home.

It is quite likely that Jim brooded over the rebuff; he was surly for a week afterwards. Then,
like the weakling that he had become, he stole away for another playday; and again grandmother,
with Theodora's and Miss Emmons's connivance, hid the book, this time somewhere in the wagon-house
cellar.

Jim did not come home to demand his book, however; in fact, he did not come back at all. Shame
perhaps restrained him. When on the third day the old Squire drove down to the village to get
him, he found that Jim had gone to Bangor with two disreputable cronies.

A week or two passed, and then came a somewhat curt letter from Jim, asking grandmother to
send his bank book to him at Oldtown, Maine. The letter put grandmother in a great state of
mind, and she declared indignantly that she would not send it. In truth, we were all certain
that now Jim would squander his savings in the worst possible way; but when another letter
came, again demanding the book, the old Squire decided that we must send it.

"The poor fellow needs a guardian," he said. "But he hasn't one; he is his own man and has
a right to his property."

With hot tears of resentment grandmother, accompanied by Theodora, went to the wagon-house
cellar to get the book. After some minutes they returned, exclaiming that they could not find it!

No little stir ensued; what had become of it? For the moment Addison and I actually suspected
that grandmother and Theodora had hidden the book again, in order to avoid sending it; but
a few words with Theodora, aside, convinced us that the book had really disappeared from the
cellar.

The old Squire was greatly disturbed. "Ruth," he said to grandmother, "are you sure you have
not put it somewhere else?"

Grandmother declared that she had not. None the less, they searched in all the previous hiding
places of the book and continued looking for it until after ten o'clock that night. We were
in a very uncomfortable position.

Long after we had gone to bed Addison and I lay awake, talking of it in low tones; we tried
to recollect everything that had gone on at home since the book was last seen. I dropped asleep
at last, and probably slept for two hours or more, when Addison shook me gently.

"Sh!" he whispered. "Don't speak. Some one is going downstairs."

Listening, I heard a stair creak, as if under a stealthy tread. Addison slipped softly out
of bed, and I followed him. Hastily donning some clothes, we went into the hall on tiptoe and
descended the stairs. The door from the hall to the sitting-room was open, and also the door
to the kitchen. It was not a dark night; and without striking a light we went out through the
wood-house to the wagon-house, for we felt sure that some one was astir out there. Just then
we heard the outer door of the wagon-house move very slowly and, stealing forward, discovered
that it was open about a foot. Still on tiptoe we drew near and were just in time to see a
person go out of sight down the lane that led to the road.

"Now who can that be?" Addison whispered. "Looks like a woman, bareheaded."

We followed cautiously, and at the gate caught another glimpse of the mysterious pedestrian
some distance down the road. We were quite sure now that it was a woman. We kept her in sight
as far as the schoolhouse; there she opened the door--the schoolhouse was rarely locked by
night or day--and disappeared inside.

Opposite the schoolhouse was a little copse of chokecherry bushes, and we stepped in among
them to watch. Some moments passed. Twice we heard slight sounds inside. Then the dim figure
in long clothes came slowly out and returned up the road toward the old Squire's.

"Who was it?" Addison said to me.

"Miss Emmons," I replied.

"Yes," Addison assented reluctantly.

We went into the schoolhouse, struck matches, and at last lighted a pine splint. The drawer
to the teacher's desk was locked, but it was a worn old lock, and by inserting the little blade
of his knife Addison at last pushed the bolt back.

Inside were the teacher's books and records. A Fifth Reader that we took up opened readily
to Jim Doane's bank book.

"She brought that here to hide it!" I exclaimed.

Addison did not reply for a moment. "Perhaps she did," he admitted. "She was walking in her sleep."

"I don't believe it!" I exclaimed.

"Yes, she was," said Addison. "She was walking in her sleep. She must have been."

I was far from convinced, but, seeing that Addison was determined to have it so, I said no
more. Taking the book, we returned home. The house was all quiet.

The next morning at the breakfast table Ellen, Theodora and grandmother began to speak of the
lost bank book again. I think that Addison had already said something in private to the old
Squire, and that they had come to an agreement as to the best course to pursue.

"Don't fret, grandmother!" Addison cried, laughing. "The book's found! We found it late last
night, after all the rest were in bed."

There was a general exclamation of surprise. I stole a glance at Miss Emmons. She looked amazed,
and I thought that she turned pale; but she was always pale.

"Yes," Addison continued, "'twas great fun. Wilma," he cried familiarly, "did you know that
you walk in your sleep?"

Miss Emmons uttered some sort of protest.

"Well, but you do!" Addison exclaimed. "Of course you don't remember it. Somnambulists never
do. You walked as if you were walking a chalk line. 'Twas the fuss we made, searching for Jim's
book last night, that set you off, I suppose."

Grandmother and the girls burst in with a hundred questions; but the old Squire said in a matter-of-fact
tone:

"I used to walk in my sleep myself, when anything had excited me the previous evening. Sometimes,
too, when I was a little ill of a cold."

Then the old gentleman went on to relate odd stories of persons who had walked in their sleep
and hidden articles, particularly money, and of the efforts that had been made to find the
misplaced articles afterwards. In fact, before we rose from the table he had more than half
convinced us that Addison's view of the matter--if it were his view--was the right one.

Miss Emmons said very little and did not afterwards speak of the matter, although Addison,
to keep up the illusion, sometimes asked her jocosely whether she had rested well, adding:

"I thought I heard you up walking again last night."

The incident was thus charitably passed over. I should not wish to say positively that it was
not a case of sleepwalking, but I think every one of us feared that this devoted sister had
made herself believe that, since Jim would squander his money in drink, it was right for her
to use it for educating her brothers. She probably supposed that she could draw the money herself.

And what became of the hapless bank book? It was sent to Jim as he had demanded; and we may
suppose that he drew the money and spent it. At any rate, when he next made his appearance
at the old Squire's, two years later, he had neither book nor money.

CHAPTER XIX

GRANDMOTHER RUTH'S LAST LOAD OF HAY

Haying time at the old farm generally began on the Monday after the Fourth of July and lasted
from four to six weeks, according to the weather, which is often fitful in Maine. We usually
harvested from seventy to seventy-five tons, and in the days of scythes and hand rakes that
meant that we had to do a good deal of hard, hot, sweaty work.

Besides Addison, Halstead and me, the old Squire had the two hired men, Jim and Asa Doane,
to help him; and sometimes Elder Witham, who was quite as good with a scythe as with a sermon,
worked for us a few days.

First we would cut the grass in the upland fields nearest the farm buildings, then the grass
in the "Aunt Hannah lot" out beyond the sugar-maple orchard and last the grass in the south
field, which, since it was on low, wet ground where there were several long swales, was the
slowest to ripen. Often there were jolly times when we cut the south field. Our enjoyment was
owing partly to the fact that we were getting toward the end of the hard work, and partly to
the bumblebees' nests we found in the swales. Moreover, when we reached that field grandmother
Ruth was wont to come out to lay the last load of hay and ride to the barn on it.

In former days when she and the old Squire were young she had helped him a great deal with
the haying. Nearly every day she finished her own work early--the cooking, the butter making,
the cheese making--and came out to the field to help rake and load the hay. The old Squire
has often told me that, except at scythe work, grandmother Ruth was the best helper he had
ever had, for at that time she was quick, lithe and strong and understood the work as well
as any man. Later when they were in prosperous circumstances she gave up doing so much work
out of doors; but still she enjoyed going to the hayfield, and even after we young folks had
gone home to live she made it her custom to lay the last load of hay and ride to the barn on
it just to show that she could do it still. She was now sixty-four years old, however, and
had grown stout, so stout indeed that to us youngsters she looked rather venturesome on a load
of hay. On the day of my narrative, we had the last of the grass in the south field "mown and
making" on the ground. There were four or five tons of it, all of which we wanted to put into
the barn before night, for, though the forenoon was bright and clear, we could hear distant
rumblings; and there were other signs that foul weather was coming. The old Squire sent Ellen
over to summon Elder Witham to help us; if the rain held off until nightfall, we hoped to have
the hay inside the barn.

At noon, while we were having luncheon, grandmother Ruth asked at what time we expected to
have the last load ready to go in.

"Not before five o'clock," Asa replied. "It has all to be raked yet."

"Well, I shall be down there by that time," she said in a very matter-of-fact tone. "I'll bring
the girls with me."

"Don't you think, Ruth, that perhaps you had better give it up this year?" the old Squire said
persuasively.

"But why?" grandmother Ruth exclaimed, not at all pleased.

"Well, you know, Ruth, that neither of us is quite so young as we once were--" the old Squire
began apologetically.

"Speak for yourself, Joseph, not for me!" she interrupted. "I'm young enough to lay a load
of hay yet!"

"Yes, yes," the old Squire said soothingly, "I know you are, but the loads are rather high,
and you know that you are getting quite heavy--"

"Then I can tread down hay all the better!" grandmother Ruth cried, turning visibly pink with
vexation.

"All right, all right, Ruth!" the old Squire said with a smile, prudently abandoning the argument.

Then Elder Witham put in his word. "The Lord has appointed to each of us our three-score years
and ten, and it behooves us to be mindful that the end of all things is drawing nigh," he remarked
soberly.

"Look here, Elder Witham," the old lady exclaimed with growing impatience, "you are here haying
to-day, not preaching! I'm going to lay that load of hay if there are men enough here to pitch
it on the cart to me."

Jim and Asa snorted; Theodora's efforts to keep a grave face were amusing; and with queer little
wrinkles gathering round the corners of his mouth the old Squire, who had finished his luncheon,
rose hastily to go out.

We went back to the south field and plied our seven rakes vigorously for an hour and a half.
Then Asa went to get the horses and the long rack cart. That day, I remember, Jim laid the
loads. Halstead helped him to tread down the hay, and Elder Witham and Asa pitched it on the
cart. The old Squire had mounted the driver's seat and taken the reins; and Addison and I raked
up the scatterings from the "tumbles."

In the course of two hours four loads of the hay had gone into the barn, and we thought that
the thirty-three tumbles that remained could be drawn at the fifth and last load. It was then
that grandmother Ruth appeared. She had been watching proceedings from the house and followed
the cart down from the barn to the south field, resolutely bent on laying the last load. Theodora
and Ellen came with her to help tread down the hay on the cart.

"Here I am!" she cried cheerily. She tossed her hayfork into the empty rack and climbed in
after it. Her sun hat was tied under her chin, and she had donned a white waist and a blue
denim skirt. "Come on now with your hay!"

Elder Witham moistened his hands, but made no comment. Jim was grinning. The old Squire drove
the cart between two tumbles, and the work of pitching on and laying the load began. No one
knew better than grandmother Ruth how a load should be laid. She first filled the opposite
ends of the rack and kept the middle low; then when the load was high as the rails of the rack
she began prudently to lay the hay out on and over them, so as to have room to build a large,
wide load.

But in this instance there was a hindrance to good loading that even grandmother's skill could
not wholly overcome. Much of the hay for that last load was from the swales at the lower side
of the field, where the grass was wild and short and sedgy, a kind that when dry is difficult
to pitch with forks and that, since the forkfuls have little cohesion and tend to drop apart,
does not lie well on the rails of the rack. Such hay farmers sometimes call "podgum."

Fully aware of the fact, the old Squire now said in an undertone to the elder and to Jim that
they had better make two loads of the thirty-three tumbles. But grandmother Ruth overheard
the remark and mistook it to mean that the old Squire did not believe she could lay the load.
It mortified her.

"No, sir-ee!" she shouted down to the old Squire. "I hear your talk about two loads, and it's
because I'm on the cart! I won't have it so! You give me that hay! I'll load it; see if I don't!"

"Bully for you, Gram!" shouted Halstead.

It was no use to try to dissuade her now, as the old Squire well knew from long experience.
When her pride was touched no arguments would move her.

With the elder heaving up great forkfuls and grandmother Ruth valiantly laying them at the
front and at the back of the rack, they continued loading the hay. Jim tried to place his forkfuls
where they need not be moved and where the girls could tread them down.

The load grew higher, for now that we were in the swales the hay could not be laid out widely.
It would be a big load, or at least a lofty one. Grandmother Ruth began to fear lest the girls
should fall off, and, calling on Elder Witham to catch them, she bade them slide down cautiously
to the ground at the rear end of the cart. She then went on laying the load alone. As a consequence
it was not so firmly trodden and became higher and higher until Jim and the elder could hardly
heave their forkfuls high enough for her to take them. But they got the last tumble up to her
and shouted, "All on!" to the old Squire, who now was nearly invisible on his seat in front.
Grandmother Ruth settled herself midway on the load to ride it to the barn, thrusting her fork
deep into the hay so as to have something to hold on by. We could just see her sun hat and
her face over the hay; she looked very pink and triumphant.

Carefully avoiding stones and all the inequalities in the field, the old Squire drove at a
slow walk. I surmise that he had his fears. It was certainly the highest load we had hauled
to the barn that summer.

The rest of us followed after, glad indeed that the long task of haying was now done, and that
the last load would soon be in the barn. Halfway to the farm buildings the cart road led through
a gap in the stone wall where two posts with bars separated the south field from the middle
field. There was scanty space for the load to pass through, and in his anxiety not to foul
either of the posts the old Squire, who could not see well because of the overhanging hay,
drove a few inches too close to one of them, and a wheel passed over a small stone beside the
wheel track. The jolt was slight, but it proved sufficient to loosen the unstable "podgum."
The load had barely cleared the posts when the entire side of it came sliding down--and grandmother
Ruth with it! We heard her cry out as she fell, and then all of us who were behind scaled the
wall and rushed to her rescue. The old Squire stopped the horses, jumped from his seat over
the off horse's back and was ahead of us all, crying, "Ruth, Ruth!"

There was a huge heap of loose hay on the ground, fully ten feet high, but she was nowhere
to be seen in it. Nor did she speak or stir.

"Great Lord, I'm afraid it's killed her!" Elder Witham exclaimed. Jim and Asa stood horrified,
and the girls burst out crying.

The old Squire had turned white. "Ruth! Ruth!" he cried. "Are you badly hurt? Do you hear?
Can't you answer?" Not a sound came from the hay, not a movement; and, falling on his knees,
he began digging it away with his hands. None of us dared use our hay-forks, and now, following
his example, we began tearing away armfuls of hay. A moment later, Addison, who was burrowing
nearly out of sight, got hold of one of her hands. It frightened him, and he cried out; but
he pulled at it. Instantly there was a laugh from somewhere underneath, then a scramble that
continued until at last grandmother Ruth emerged without aid of any sort and stood up, a good
deal rumpled and covered with hay but laughing.

"It didn't hurt me a mite!" she protested. "I came down light as a feather!"

"But why didn't you answer when we called to you?" the elder exclaimed reprovingly. "You kept
so still we were scared half to death about you!"

"Oh, I just wanted to see what you would all do," she replied airily and still laughing. "I
was a little afraid you would stick your forks into the hay, but I was watching for that."

The old Squire was so relieved, so overjoyed, to see her on her feet unhurt that he had not
a word of reproach for her. All he said was, "Ruth Ann, I'm afraid you are growing too young
for your age!"

The truth is that grandmother Ruth was dreadfully chagrined that the load she had laid had
not held together as far as the barn; and it was partly mortification, I think, that led her
to lie so still under the hay.

She wanted to remount the cart and have the hay pitched up to her; but as it was getting late
in the afternoon, and as there was no ladder at hand, Jim and Asa hoisted Addison up, and he
succeeded in rebuilding the load so that we were able to take it into the barn without further
incident.

We could hardly believe that the fall had not injured grandmother Ruth, and as a matter of
fact Theodora afterwards told us that she had several large black-and-blue spots as a result
of her adventure. The old lady herself, however, scouted the idea that she had been in the
least injured and did not like to have us show any solicitude about her.

The following year, as haying drew to a close, we young folks waited curiously to see whether
she would speak of going out to lay the last load. Not a word came from her; but I think it
was less because she felt unable to go than it was that she feared we would refer to her mishap
of the previous summer.

CHAPTER XX

WHEN UNCLE HANNIBAL SPOKE AT THE CHAPEL

For a month or more the old Squire had looked perplexed. Two of his lifelong friends were rival
candidates for the senatorship from Maine, and each had expressed the hope that the old Squire
would aid him in his canvass. Both candidates knew that many of the old Squire's friends and
neighbors looked to him for guidance in political matters. Without seeming to express personal
preference, the old Squire could not choose between them, for both were statesmen of wide experience
and in every way good men for the office.

The first was Hannibal Hamlin, who had been Vice-President with Abraham Lincoln in 1861-1865:
"Uncle Hannibal," as we young people at the farm always called him after that memorable visit
of his, when we ate "fried pies" together. He had been Senator before the Civil War, and also
Governor of Maine; now, after the war, in 1868, he had again been nominated for the senatorship
under the auspices of the Republican party.

The other candidate, the Hon. Lot M. Morrill, had been Governor of Maine in 1858, and had also
been United States Senator. I cherished a warm feeling for him, for he was the man who had
so opportunely helped me to capture the runaway calf, Little Dagon.

Politically, we young folks were much divided in our sympathies that fall. My cousins Addison
and Theodora were ardent supporters of Uncle Hannibal, whereas I, thinking of that calf, could
not help feeling loyal to Senator Morrill. Hot debates we had! Halstead alone was indifferent.
At last Ellen declared herself on my side and thus made a tie at table. I never knew whom the
old Squire favored; he never told us and was always reluctant to speak of the matter.

It was a very close contest, and in the legislature was finally decided by a plurality of one
in favor of Mr. Hamlin. Seventy-five votes were cast for him, seventy-four for Mr. Morrill,
and there was one blank vote, over which a dispute later arose.

Earlier in the season, when the legislators who were to decide the matter at Augusta were being
elected, both candidates made personal efforts to win popular support. Thus it happened that
Uncle Hannibal on one of his visits to his native town that year, promised to give us a little
talk. Since there was no public hall in the neighborhood, the gathering was to be held at the
capacious old Methodist chapel.

There had been no regular preaching there of late, and the house had fallen into lamentable
disrepair. The roof was getting leaky; the wind had blown off several of the clapboards; and
a large patch of the plaster, directly over the pulpit, had fallen from the ceiling.

Fall was now drawing on, with colder weather, and so, on the day of Uncle Hannibal's talk,
the old Squire sent Addison and me over to the chapel to kindle a fire in the big box stove
and also to sweep out the place.

We drove over in the morning--the meeting was to begin at two o'clock--and set to work at once.
While we were sweeping up the débris we noticed insects flying round overhead. For a while,
however, we gave them little heed; Addison merely remarked that there was probably a hornets'
nest up in the loft, but that hornets would not molest any one if they were left alone. But
after we had kindled a fire in the stove and the long funnel had begun to heat the upper part
of the room, they began to fly in still greater numbers. Soon one of them darted down at us,
and Addison pulled off his hat to drive it away.

"I say!" he cried, as his eyes followed the insect where it alighted on the ceiling. "That's
no hornet! That's a honeybee--and an Egyptian, too!"

We quickly made sure that they were indeed Egyptian bees. They were coming down through the
cracks between the laths at the place where the plaster had fallen from the ceiling.

"Do you suppose there's a swarm of bees up there in the loft?" Addison exclaimed. "I'll bet
there is," he added, "a runaway swarm that's gone in at the gable end outside, where the clapboards
are off."

He climbed up on the high pulpit and with the handle of the broom rapped on the ceiling. We
immediately heard a deep humming sound overhead, and so many bees flew down through the cracks
that Addison descended in haste. We retreated toward the door.

"What are we going to do when Senator Hamlin and all the people come?" I asked.

"I don't know!" Addison muttered, perplexed. "That old loft is roaring full of bees. We've
got to do something with them, or there won't be any speaking here to-day."

We thought of stopping up the cracks, but there were too many of them to make that practicable.
To dislodge the swarm from the loft, too, would be equally difficult, for the more we disturbed
the bees the more furious they would become.

At last we thought of the old Squire's bee smoker with which he had sometimes subdued angry
swarms that were bent on stinging.

"You drive home as fast as you can and get the smoker and a ladder," Addison said, "and I'll
stay here to watch the fire in the stove."

So I drove old Nance home at her best pace. When I got there I looked for the old Squire to
tell him of our trouble, but found that he had already driven to the village to meet Senator
Hamlin and the other speakers of the afternoon. Grandmother and the girls were too busy getting
ready for the distinguished guests, who were to have supper with us, to give much heed to my
story of the bees. So I got the smoker, the box of elm-wood punk and a ladder about fourteen
feet long, and with this load drove back at top speed to the meetinghouse.

Addison had eaten his share of the luncheon that we had brought, and while I devoured mine
he pottered with the smoker; neither of us understood very well how it worked. There are now
several kinds of bee smokers on the market; but the old Squire had contrived this one by making
use of an old-fashioned bellows to puff the smoke from out of a two-quart tin can in which
the punk wood was fired by means of a live coal. The nose of the bellows was inserted at one
end of the can; and into a hole at the other end the old gentleman had soldered a short tin
tube through which he could blow the smoke in any direction he desired. In order not to burn
his fingers he had inclosed both bellows and can in supporting strips of wood; thus he could
hold the contrivance in one hand and squeeze the bellows with the other.

As we were unfamiliar with the contrivance, we both had to climb the ladder--one to hold the
can and the other to pump the bellows. We lost so much time in getting started that when at
last we were ready to begin operations people had already begun to arrive. They asked us all
sorts of questions and bothered us a good deal, but we kept right on at our task. The smoker
was working well, and we felt greatly encouraged. Those rings of black vapor drove the bees
back and, as the smoke rose through the cracks, prevented them from coming down again.

We were still up that ladder by the pulpit, puffing smoke at those cracks, when the old Squire
and Uncle Hannibal arrived, with Judge Peters and the Hon. Hiram Bliss. The house was now full
of people, and they cheered the newcomers; there was not a little laughter and joking when
some one told the visiting statesmen that a swarm of bees was overhead.

"Boys," Uncle Hannibal cried, "do you suppose there's much honey up there?"

He asked the Squire whether Egyptian bees were good honey gatherers, and laughed heartily when
the old gentleman told him what robbers they were and how savagely they stung.

"Judge!" Uncle Hannibal cried to Judge Peters. "That's what's the matter with our Maine politics.
The Egyptians are robbing us of our liberties!"

That idea seemed to stick in his mind, for later, when he began his address, he referred humorously
to several prominent leaders of the opposing party as bold, bad Egyptians. "We shall have to
smoke them out," he said, laughing. "And I guess that the voters of this district are going
to do it, and the boys, too," he continued, pointing up to us on the ladder.

He had refused to speak from the pulpit, and so stood on the floor of the house--in what he
described as his proper place; the pulpit, he said, was no place for politics.

After so many years I cannot pretend to remember all that Uncle Hannibal said; besides, my
attention was largely engrossed in directing the nozzle of the smoker at those cracks between
the laths. Addison and I were badly crowded on the ladder, and the small rungs were not comfortable
to stand on. Now and then, in spite of our efforts, an Egyptian got through the cracks and
dived down near Uncle Hannibal's head.

"A little more smoke up there, boys!" he would cry, pretending to dodge the insect. "I thought
I heard an Egyptian then, and it sounded a little like Brother Morrill's voice!"

The great buzzing that was going on up in the loft was plainly audible below. Now and again
Uncle Hannibal cocked his ear to listen, and once he cried, "The Egyptians are rallying! We
are going to have a hard fight with them this year. Don't let them rob us!"

When the old Squire introduced the next speaker, Judge Peters, Senator Hamlin remarked that
Peters was a hard stinger himself, as many a criminal had learned to his cost. And when the
Hon. Hiram Bliss was introduced, Uncle Hannibal cut in with the remark that we need make no
mistake on account of Mr. Bliss's name, for when he got after the Egyptians they would be in
anything except a blissful state of mind. He also jocosely bade Mr. Bliss not to talk too long.

"We must get that honey," he said, laughing heartily. "I'd much rather have some honey than
hear one of your old dry speeches!"

During Mr. Bliss's address we boys were wondering whether Senator Hamlin really intended to
try to get that honey. We were inclined to think that he had merely been joking; but Mr. Bliss
had no sooner sat down than Uncle Hannibal was on his feet.

"Now for that honey!" he cried with twinkling eyes. "I feel sure there's enough up there for
every one to have a bite."

"How are you going to get it?" some one said.

"Why, go right up and take it!" he exclaimed. "You know, my friends, that all through the Civil
War I had the misfortune to be Vice-President, which is about the most useless, sit-still-and-do-nothing
office in this country. All those four years I wanted to go to the front and do something.
I wanted to be a general or a private with a gun. The war is past, thank God, but I haven't
got over that feeling yet, and now I want to lead an attack on those Egyptians! Back there
over the singers' gallery I think I see a scuttle that leads up into the loft. Come on, boys,
and fetch a bucket or two, or some baskets. Let's storm the fort!"

The crowd was laughing now, and men were shouting advice of all sorts. Uncle Hannibal was already
on his way to the singers' gallery, and Addison, hastily thrusting the smoker into my hands,
got down from the ladder and ran to help our distinguished visitor. Others followed them up
the back stairs to the gallery; but the old Squire, seeing what was likely to happen, came
to my assistance on the ladder. Taking the smoker into his own hands, he worked it vigorously
in order to send as much smoke as possible up into the loft.

But on pushing up the scuttle the opening was found to be no more than fifteen inches square;
and Uncle Hannibal was a two-hundred-pound man with broad shoulders. He mounted the singers'
bench, but he could barely get his large black head up through the hole.

"Ah!" he cried in disgust. "Why didn't they make it larger? Just my luck. I never can get to
the front!"

Grabbing Addison playfully by the shoulder he said, "I will put you up."

But at first Addison held back. "They'll sting me to death!" he protested.

"Wait!" Uncle Hannibal cried. "We will rig you up for it!" And leaning over the front rail
of the gallery, he shouted, "Has any lady got a veil--two or three veils?"

Several women gave their veils, which Uncle Hannibal tied over Addison's hat; then the Senator
put his own large gloves on Addison's hands. By that time the gallery was full of people--all
laughing and giving advice. A man produced some string, and with it they tied Addison's trouser
legs down and fastened his jacket sleeves tight round the wrists. Then Uncle Hannibal lifted
him up as if he had been a child and at one boost shoved him up through the scuttle hole. When
Addison had got to his feet in the loft, the Senator passed him a wicker lunch basket and a
tin pail.

Tiptoeing his way perilously over the scantlings, laths and plaster, Addison made his way back
to the rear end of the meetinghouse. The honeycombs were mostly on a beam against the boards
of the outer wall. The punk smoke was so dense up there that he could hardly get his breath.
The bees, nearly torpid from the smoke, were crawling sluggishly along on the underside of
the roof, and offered no resistance when Addison broke off the combs.

With his basket and pail well filled, he tiptoed back to the scuttle and handed the spoils
to Uncle Hannibal, who instantly led the way down the back stairs and outdoors.

"We have despoiled the Egyptians!" he cried. "I didn't do much myself, but a younger hero has
appeared. Now for a sweet time!" And he passed the pail and basket round.

There was as much as twenty pounds of honey, and every one got at least a taste. The old Squire
and I had now stopped puffing smoke, and we joined the others outside. To this day I remember
just how Uncle Hannibal looked as he stood there on the meetinghouse platform, with a chunk
of white, dripping comb in his hand. He took a big bite from it; and I said to myself that,
if he took many more bites like that one, there would not be much honey left for the old Squire
and me. But we got a taste of it, and very good honey it was.

Our victory over the Egyptians, however, was not yet complete. Either because the smoke was
now clearing up, or because they smelled the honey that we were eating, they began to come
round to the front end of the house, where they hovered over the people and darted down savagely
at them. Outcries arose; men and women tried frantically to brush the insects away. Horses
out at the sheds began to squeal. More bees were coming round every moment--the angriest bees
I have ever seen! They stung wherever they touched. Judge Peters and Mr. Bliss were fighting
the insects with both hands; and Uncle Hannibal, too, was pawing the air, with guffaws of laughter.

"The Egyptians are getting the best of us!" he cried. "We had better retire in as good order
as we can--or it will be another Bull Run!"

Retreat was clearly the part of discretion, and so the whole gathering streamed away down the
road to a safe distance. In fact, there was a pretty lively time before all of the people had
unhitched their teams and got away. But in spite of many bee stings it had been a very hilarious
meeting; and it is safe to say that all who were at the Methodist chapel that afternoon wanted
Uncle Hannibal for Senator.

The old Squire drove home with his guests to supper; Addison and I gathered up our brooms and
bee smoker and followed them.

At supper Uncle Hannibal asked us to tell him more about those Egyptian bees, of which he had
never heard before; and after the meal he went out to see the colonies in the garden. He walked
up to a hive and boldly caught one of the bees between his thumb and forefinger. Holding it
fast, he picked up a pea pod for it to sting, so that he could see how long a stinger it had.

"Ah, but that is a cruel chap!" he said. "You'll have to use brimstone, I guess, to get those
Egyptians out of the meetinghouse."

In point of fact, brimstone was what two of the church stewards did use, a few weeks later,
before there were services at the chapel again; but they did not find much honey left.

CHAPTER XXI

THAT MYSTERIOUS DAGUERREOTYPE SALOON

For two years our young neighbor Catherine had been carrying on a little industry that had
proved fairly lucrative--namely, gathering and curing wild herbs and selling them to drug stores
in Portland. Her grandmother had taught her how to cure and press the herbs. One season she
sold seventy dollars' worth.

Catherine took many long jaunts to gather her herbs--thoroughwort, goldthread, catnip, comfrey,
skullcap, pennyroyal, lobelia, peppermint, old-man's-root, snakehead and others of greater
or less medicinal value. She soon came to know where all those various wild plants grew for
miles round. Naturally she wished to keep her business for herself and was rather chary about
telling others where the herbs she collected grew.

She had heard that thoroughwort was growing in considerable quantity in the old pastures at
"Dresser's Lonesome." She did not like to go up there alone, however, for the place was ten
or eleven miles away, and the road that led to it ran for most of the distance through deep
woods; a road that once proceeded straight through to Canada, but had long since been abandoned.
Years before, a young man named Abner Dresser had cleared a hundred acres of land up there
and built a house and a large barn; but his wife had been so lonely--there was no neighbor
within ten miles--that he had at last abandoned the place.

Finally Catherine asked my cousin Theodora to go up to "Dresser's Lonesome" with her and offered
to share the profits of the trip. No one enjoyed such a jaunt better than Theodora, and one
day early the previous August, they persuaded me to harness one of the work horses to the double-seated
buckboard and to take them up there for the day.

It was a long, hard drive, for the old road was badly overgrown; indeed we were more than two
hours in reaching the place. What was our amazement when we drew near the deserted old farmhouse
to see a "daguerreotype saloon" standing before it: one of those peripatetic studios on wheels,
in which "artists" used to journey about the country taking photographs. Of course, card photographs
had not come into vogue then; but there were the daguerreotypes, and later the tintypes, and
finally the ambrotypes in little black-and-gilt cases.

Those "saloons" were picturesque little contrivances, not much more than five feet wide by
fifteen feet long, and mounted on wheels. On each side was a little window, and overhead was
a larger skylight; a flight of three steps led up to a narrow door at the rear. The door opened
into the "saloon" proper, where the camera and the visitor's chair stood; forward of that was
the cuddy under the skylight, in which the photographer did his developing.

The photographer was usually some ambitious young fellow who, after learning his trade, often
made and painted his "saloon" himself. Frequently he slept in it, and sometimes cooked his
meals in it. If he did not own a horse, he usually made a bargain with some farmer to haul
him to his next stopping place in exchange for taking his picture. When business grew dull
in one neighborhood, he moved to another. He was the true Bohemian of his trade--the gypsy
of early photography.

The forward wheels of this one were gone, and its front end was propped up level on a short
piece of timber; but otherwise the "saloon" looked as if the "artist" might at that moment
be developing a plate inside.

On closer inspection, however, we saw that weeds had sprung up beneath and about it, and I
guessed that the wagon had been standing there for at least a month or two; and on peeping
in at the little end door we saw that birds or squirrels had been in and out of the place.
All that we could make of it was that the photographer, whoever he was, had come there, left
his "saloon" and gone away--with the forward wheels.

We gathered a load of herbs and drove home again, much puzzled by our discovery. The story
of the "daguerreotype saloon" at Dresser's Lonesome soon spread abroad, but no one was able
to furnish a clue to its history. Of course all manner of rumors began to circulate; some people
declared that the owner of the "saloon" must be a naturalist who had journeyed up there to
take pictures of wild animal life; others thought that the photographer had lost his way and
perished in the woods.

When Willis Murch passed along the old road in October that fall, the mysterious "saloon" was
still standing there; and lumbermen spoke of seeing it there during the winter. That next August,
a year after we had first discovered it, Catherine and Theodora again went up to Dresser's
Lonesome to gather herbs; and still the "daguerreotype saloon" was there.

It was Halstead who carried the girls up on that trip. The weather had been threatening when
they started, and showers soon set in; rain fell pretty much all the afternoon, so that the
girls were badly delayed in gathering their herbs. When Halstead declared that it was high
time to start for home, Catherine proposed that they stay there overnight and finish their
task the next day. The roof of the old farmhouse was now so leaky that they could find no shelter
there from the rain; but Catherine suggested that the deserted "daguerreotype saloon" would
be a cosy place to camp in.

Theodora did not like the idea very well, for the region was wild and lonely, and Halstead
thought he ought to return to the farm.

"Why, this old saloon is just as good as a house!" Catherine said. "We can fasten the door,
and then nothing can get in. And we have plenty of lunch left for our supper."

At last Theodora reluctantly agreed to stay. Promising to return for them by noon the next
day, Halstead then started for home. After he had gone, the girls gathered a quart or more
of raspberries, to eat with their supper. When they had finished the meal, they made, with
the sacks of herbs, a couch on the floor of the "saloon," and Catherine fastened the door securely
by leaning a narrow plank from the floor of the old barn against it.

For a while the girls lay and talked in low tones. Outside everything was very quiet, and scarcely
a sound came to their ears. All nature seemed to have gone to rest; not a whippoorwill chanted
nor an owl hooted about the old buildings. Before long Catherine fell peacefully asleep. Theodora,
however, who was rather ill at ease in these wild surroundings, had determined to stay awake,
and lay listening to the crickets in the grass under the "saloon." But crickets make drowsy
music, and at last she, too, dropped asleep.

Not very much later something bumped lightly against the front end of the "saloon" outside;
the noise was repeated several times. Oddly enough, it was not Theodora who waked, but Catherine.
She sat up and, remembering instantly where she was, listened without stirring or speaking.
Her first thought was that a deer had come round and was rubbing itself against the "saloon."

"It will soon go away," she said to herself, and did not rouse her companion.

The queer, bumping, jarring sounds continued, however, and presently were followed by a heavy
jolt. Then for some moments Catherine heard footsteps in the weeds outside, and told herself
that there must be two or three deer. She was not alarmed, for she knew that the animals would
not harm them; but she hoped that they would not waken Theodora, who might be needlessly frightened.

But presently she heard a sound that she could not explain; it was like the jingling of a small
chain. Rising quietly, she peeped out of one of the little side windows, and then out of the
other. The clouds had cleared away, and bright moonlight flooded the place, but she could not
see anywhere the cause of the disturbance. Whatever had made the sounds was out of sight in
front; there was no window at that end of the "saloon."

Still not much alarmed, Catherine stepped up on the one old chair of the studio and cautiously
raised the hinged skylight. At that very instant, however, the "saloon" started as if of its
own accord and moved slowly across the yard and down the road!

The wagon started so suddenly that Catherine fell off the chair. Theodora woke, but before
she could speak or cry out Catherine was beside her.

"Hush! Hush!" she whispered, and put her hand over her companion's mouth. "Don't be scared!
Keep quiet. Some one is drawing the old saloon away!"

That was far from reassuring to Theodora. "Oh, what shall we do?" she whispered in terror.

Catherine was still begging her to be silent, when a terrific jolt nearly threw her off her
feet. In great alarm the girls sprang to the little rear door to get out and escape.

But as a result probably of the rocking and straining of the frail structure, the plank that
Catherine set against the door had settled down and stuck fast. Again and again she tried to
pull it away, but she could not move it. Theodora also tugged at it--in vain. They were imprisoned;
they could not get out; and meanwhile the old "saloon" was bumping over the rough road.

"Oh, who do you suppose it is?" Theodora whispered, weak from fear. "Where do you suppose he
is going with us?"

"We must find out. Hold the chair steady, Doad, if you can, while I get up and look out."

She set the chair under the skylight again, and then, while Theodora held it steady, climbed
upon it--no easy matter with the vehicle rocking so violently--and tried to raise the skylight.
But that, too, had jammed. At last, by pushing hard against it, she succeeded in raising it
far enough to let her peer out over the flat roof.

There, in the moonlight, she saw a strange-looking creature,--a man,--who rolled and ambled
rather than walked; he was leading a white horse by the bit, and the horse was dragging the
"saloon" down the road. The man was a truly terrifying spectacle. He seemed to be a giant;
his head projected far forward between his shoulders, and on his back was what looked like
a camel's hump! His feet were not like human feet, but rather like huge hoofs; and the man,
if he was one, wabbled forward on them in a way that turned Catherine quite sick with apprehension.
All she could think of was the picture of Giant Despair in her grandmother's copy of Bunyan's
Pilgrim's Progress.

Unable to imagine who or what he could be, Catherine stood for some moments and stared at him,
fascinated. All the while Theodora was anxiously whispering:

"Who is it? Who is it? Oh, let me see!"

"Don't try to look," Catherine answered earnestly, as she leaped to the floor. "Doad, we must
get out if we can."

She threw herself at the door again and tried to pull it open; Theodora joined her, but even
together they could not stir it.

Meanwhile the "saloon" swayed and jolted over the rough road; to keep from pitching headlong
from side to side the girls had to sit down on the sacks. Their one consoling thought was that,
if they could not get out, their captor, whoever he was, could not get in.

They were a little cheered, too, when they realized that the wagon was apparently following
the road that led toward home. But when they had gone about three or four miles and had come
to the branch road that led to Lurvey's Mills, they felt the old "saloon" turn off from the
main road. With sinking hearts they struggled again to open the door, until, weak and exhausted,
they gave up.

Theodora was limp with terror at their plight. Catherine, more resolute, tried to encourage
her companion; but as they jogged and jolted over the deserted road for what seemed hours,
even her own courage began to weaken.

At last they came to a ford that led across a muddy brook. As the horse entered the water,
the forward end of the rickety old "saloon" pitched sharply downward. The prop that had held
the door fast loosened and the door flew open!

Needless to say, the girls lost little time in getting out of their prison. Before the "saloon"
had topped the other bank, they jumped out and ran into the alder bushes that bordered the stream.

Their captor was evidently not aware of their escape, for the "saloon" kept on its course.
As soon as it was out of sight the girls waded the brook and, hastening back to the fork of
the road, took the homeward trail.

About four o'clock in the morning grandmother Ruth heard them knocking at the door. They were
still much excited, and told so wild and curious a story of their adventure that after breakfast
the old Squire and Addison drove over to Lurvey's Mills to investigate.

Almost the first thing they saw when they reached the Mills was that old "daguerreotype saloon,"
standing beside the road near the post office, and pottering about it a large, ungainly man--a
hunchback with club feet.

A few minutes' conversation with him cleared up the mystery. This was the first he had heard
that two girls had ridden in his "saloon" the night before! His name, he told them, was Duchaine,
and he said that he came from Lewiston, Maine.

"Maybe you've heard of me," he said to Addison, with a somewhat painful smile. "The boys down
there call me Big Pumplefoot."

Unable to do ordinary work, he had learned to take ambrotypes and set up as an itinerant photographer.
But ere long his mother, who was a French Canadian, had gone back to live at Megantic in the
Province of Quebec; and in June the year before he set off to visit her. Thinking that he might
find customers at Megantic, he had taken his "saloon" along with him; but when he got to Dresser's
Lonesome he found the road so much obstructed that he left the "saloon" behind, and went on
with his horse and the forward wheels.

An accident had laid him up at Megantic during the winter and spring, but later in the season
he started for Maine. On the way down the old road from Canada he got belated, and had not
reached Dresser's Lonesome with his horse and wheels until late at night; but as there was
no place where he could put up, and as the moon was shining, he had decided to hitch up to
his "saloon" and continue on his way to the Mills.

Thus the mystery was cleared up; but although the explanation was simple enough, Theodora and
Catherine were little inclined to laugh over their adventure.

CHAPTER XXII

"RAINBOW IN THE MORNING"

That was the year noted for a celestial phenomenon of great interest to astronomers.

We were taking breakfast rather earlier than usual that morning in August, for a party of us
had planned to go blackberrying up at the "burnt lots."

Three or four years before, forest fires had burned over a large tract up in the great woods
to the north of the old Squire's farm. We had heard that blackberries were very plentiful there
that season; and now that haying was over, Addison and I had planned to drive up there with
the girls, and Catherine and Thomas Edwards, who wished to go with us.

So far as Addison and I were concerned, the trip was not wholly for blackberries; we had another
motive for going--one that we were keeping a profound secret. One afternoon late in the preceding
fall we had gone up there to shoot partridges; and Addison, who was much interested in mineralogy,
had come across what he believed to be silver in a ledge.

Every one knows that there is silver in Maine. Not a few know it to their sorrow; for there
is nothing more discouraging than a mine that yields just a little less than enough to pay
running expenses. But to us boys Addison's discovery suggested the possibilities of vast fortunes.

Addison felt very sure that it was silver, but we decided to say nothing to any one until we
were certain. All that winter, however, we cherished rosy hopes of soon being wealthy. At the
first opportunity we meant to make a quiet trip up there with hammer and drill to obtain specimens
for assay, but for one reason or another we did not get round to it until August, when we planned
the blackberrying excursion.

While we were at the breakfast table that morning there came a thundershower, and a thundershower
in the early morning is unusual in Maine. The sun had risen clear, but a black cloud rose in
the west, the sky darkened suddenly, and so heavy a shower fell that at first we thought we
should have to give up the trip.

But the shower ceased as suddenly as it had begun, and the sun shone out again. Ellen, who
had gone to the pantry for something, called to us that there was a bright rainbow in the northwest.

"Do come here to the back window!" she cried. "It's a lovely one!"

Sure enough, there was a vivid rainbow; the bright arch spanned the whole northwestern sky
over the great woods.

    "Rainbow in the morning,
    Good sailors take warning,"

the old Squire remarked, smiling. "Better take your coats and umbrellas with you to-day."

We did not know then how many times during that day our thoughts would go back to the rainbow
and the old superstition.

After breakfast we hitched up Old Sol, drove round by the Edwardses' to pick up Tom and Kate,
and from there followed the lumber road into the great woods, to Otter Brook. The "burnt lots"
were perhaps a mile beyond the brook.

Addison and I picked blackberries for a while with the others; then, watching our chance, we
stole away and made for the ledges, a mile or two to the northeast.

I had managed to bring a drill hammer along in my basket, wrapped up in my jacket; and Addison
had brought a short drill in his pocket. We found the ledge where Addison had made his discovery
and had no great trouble in chipping off some specimens. I may add here that the specimens
later proved to contain silver--in small quantities. I still have a few of them--mementos of
youthful hopes that faded early in the light of greater knowledge.

We followed the ledges off to the northeast over several craggy hills. At one place we found
many exfoliating lumps of mica; we cleaved out sheets of it nearly a foot square, which Addison
believed might prove valuable for stove doors.

While pottering with the mica, I accidentally broke into a kind of cavity, or pocket, in the
ledge, partly filled with disintegrated rock; and on clearing out the loose stuff from this
pocket we came upon a beautiful three-sided crystal about two inches long, like a prism, green
in color, except at one end, where it shaded to pink.

It was a tourmaline crystal, similar to certain fine ones that have been found some miles to
the eastward, at the now world-famous Mount Mica. At that time we did not know what it was,
but, thinking that it might be valuable, we searched the pocket for other crystals, but found
no more.

We had both become so much interested in searching for minerals that we had quite forgotten
our luncheon. The sky, I remember, was overcast and the sun obscured; it was also very smoky
from forest fires, which in those days were nearly always burning somewhere to the north of
us during the summer.

But presently, as Addison was thumping away with the hammer, I noticed that it was growing
dark. At first I thought that it was merely a darker cloud above the smoke that had drifted
over the sun, and said nothing; but the sky continued to darken, and soon Addison noticed it.

"Another shower coming, I guess," he said, looking up. "Don't see any particular clouds, though.
I wonder what makes it so dark?"

"It seems just like night coming on," said I. "But it isn't so late as all that, is it?"

"No!" exclaimed Addison. "It isn't night yet, I know!" And he hastily took out Theodora's watch,
which she had intrusted to him to carry that day, so that we should know when to start for
home. "It's only half past three, and the sun doesn't set now till after seven o'clock."

We hammered at the ledge again for a while; but still it grew darker.

"Well, this beats me!" Addison exclaimed; and again he surveyed the sky.

"That watch hasn't stopped, has it?" I said; for night was plainly falling.

Addison hastily looked again.

"No, it's ticking all right," he said. "Theodora's watch never stops, you know." It was a fine
watch that her father had left to her.

By that time it was so dark that we could hardly see the hands on the watch; and although the
day had been warm, I noticed a distinct change in the temperature--a chill. Somewhere in the
woods an owl began to hoot dismally, as owls do at night; and from a ledge a little distance
from the one on which we stood a whippoorwill began to chant.

Night was evidently descending on the earth--at four o'clock of an August afternoon! We stared
round and then looked at each other, bewildered.

"Addison, what do you make of this!" I cried.

Thoughts of that rainbow in the morning had flashed through my mind; and with it came a cold
touch of superstitious fear, such as I had never felt in my life before. In that moment I realized
what the fears of the ignorant must have been through all the past ages of the world. It is
a fear that takes away your reason. I could have cried out, or run, or done any other foolish
thing.

Without saying a word, Addison put the tourmaline crystal into his pocket and picked up the
drill and the little bundle of silver-ore specimens, which to carry the more easily he had
tied up in his handkerchief.

"Come on," he said in a queer, low tone. "Let's go find Theodora and Nell. I guess we'd better
go home--if it's coming on night in the middle of the afternoon."

He tried to laugh, for Addison had always prided himself on being free from all superstition.
But I saw that he was startled; and he admitted afterwards that he, too, had remembered about
that rainbow in the morning, and had also thought of the comet that had appeared a few years
before and that many people believed to presage the end of the world.

We started to run back, but it had already grown so dark that we had to pay special heed to
our steps. We could not walk fast. To this day I remember how strange and solemn the chanting
of the whippoorwills and the hoarse skook! of the nighthawks sounded to me. No doubt I was
frightened. It was exactly like evening; the same chill was in the air.

At last we reached the place where we had left the others, but they were not there. Addison
called to Theodora and Ellen several times in low, suppressed tones; I, too, felt a great disinclination
to shout or speak aloud.

"I guess they've all gone back where we left the wagon," Addison said at last.

We made our way through the tangled bushes, brush and woods, down to Otter Brook. In the darkness
we went a little astray from the place where we had unharnessed the horse; but presently, as
we were moving about in the brushwood, we heard a low voice say:

"Is that you, Ad?"

It was Theodora; and immediately we came upon them all, sitting together forlornly there in
the wagon. They had hitched up Old Sol and were anxiously waiting for us in order to start
for home. The strange phenomenon seemed to have dazed them; they sat there in the dark as silent
as so many mice.

"Hello, girls!" Addison exclaimed. "Are you all there? Quite dark, isn't it?"

"Oh, Ad, what do you think this is?" Theodora asked, still in the same hushed voice.

"Well, I think it is dark," replied Addison, trying to appear unconcerned.

"Don't laugh, Ad," said Theodora solemnly. "Something awful has happened."

"And where have you two been so long?" asked Catherine. "We thought you were lost. We thought
you would never come. What time is it?"

We struck a match and looked. It was nearly half past four.

"Oh, get in, Ad, and take the reins! Let's go home!" Ellen pleaded.

"Yes, Ad, let's go home, if we can get there," said Tom Edwards. "What d'ye suppose it is, anyhow?"

"Dark!" exclaimed Addison hardily. "Just plain dark!"

"Oh, Addison!" exclaimed Theodora reprovingly. "Don't try to joke about a thing like this."

"It may be the end of the world," Ellen murmured.

"The world has had a good many ends to it," said Addison. "Which end do you think this is, Nell?"

But neither Ellen nor Theodora cared to reply to him. Their low, frightened voices increased
my uneasiness. I could think of nothing except that rainbow in the morning; "morning," "warning,"
seemed to ring in my ears.

We climbed into the wagon and started homeward, but it was so dark that we had to plod along
slowly. Old Sol was unusually torpid, as if the ominous obscurity had dazed him, too. After
a time he stopped short and snorted; we heard the brush crackle and caught a glimpse of a large
animal crossing the road ahead of us.

"That's a bear," Thomas said. "Bears are out, just as if it were night."

Some minutes passed before we could make Old Sol go on; and again we heard owls hooting in
the woods.

Long before we got down to the cleared land, however, the sky began gradually to grow lighter.
We all noticed it, and a feeling of relief stole over us. In the course of twenty minutes it
became so light that we could discern objects round us quite plainly. The night chill, too,
seemed to go from the air.

Suddenly, as we rattled along, Addison jumped up from his seat and turned to us. "I know now
what this is!" he cried. "Why didn't I think of it before?"

"What is it--if you know?" cried Catherine and Theodora at once.

"The eclipse! The total eclipse of the sun!" exclaimed Addison. "I remember now reading something
about it in the Maine Farmer a fortnight ago. It was to be on the 7th--and this is it!"

At that time advance notices of such phenomena were not so widely published as they are now;
at the old farm, too, we did not take a daily newspaper. So one of the great astronomical events
of the last century had come and gone, and we had not known what it was until it was over.

Except for the dun canopy of smoke and clouds over the sun we should have guessed at once,
of course, the cause of the darkness; but as it was, the eclipse had given us an anxious afternoon;
and although the rainbow in the morning had probably not the slightest connection with the
eclipse,--indeed, could not have had,--it had greatly heightened the feeling of awe and superstitious
dread with which we had beheld night fall in the middle of the afternoon!

By the time we got home it was light again. As we drove into the yard, the old Squire came
out, smiling. "Was it a little dark up where you were blackberrying a while ago?" he asked.

"Well, just a little dark, sir," Addison replied, with a smile as droll as his own. "But I
suppose it was all because of that rainbow in the morning that you told us to look out for."

CHAPTER XXIII

WHEN I WENT AFTER THE EYESTONE

A few evenings ago, I read in a Boston newspaper that, as the result of a close contest, Isaac
Kane Woodbridge had been elected mayor of one of the largest and most progressive cities of
the Northwest.

Little Ike Woodbridge! Yes, it was surely he. How strangely events work round in this world
of ours! Memories of a strange adventure that befell him years ago when he was a little fellow
came to my mind, and I thought of the slender thread by which his life hung that afternoon.

The selectmen of our town had taken Ike Woodbridge from the poor-house and "bound him out"
to a farmer named Darius Dole. He was to have food, such as Dole and his wife ate, ten weeks'
schooling a year, and if he did well and remained with the Doles until he was of legal age,
a "liberty suit" of new clothes and fifty dollars.

That was the written agreement; and Farmer Dole, who was a severe, hard-working man, began
early to see to it that little Ike earned all that came to him. The boy, who was a little over
seven years old, had to be up and dressed at five o'clock in the morning, fetch wood and water
to the kitchen, help do chores at the barn, run on errands, pull weeds in the garden, spread
the hay swathes in the field with a little fork, and do a hundred other things, up to the full
measure of his strength.

The neighbors soon began to say that little Ike was being worked too hard. When the old Squire
was one of the selectmen, he remonstrated with Dole, and wrung a promise from him that the
boy should have more hours for sleep, warmer clothes for winter, and three playdays a year;
but Dole did not keep his promise very strictly.

The fall that little Ike was in his eighth year, the threshers, as we called the men who journeyed
from farm to farm to thresh the grain, came to the old Squire's as usual. While my cousin Halstead
was helping to tend the machine, he got a bit of wheat beard in his right eye.

First Theodora, then Addison, and finally the old Squire, tried to wipe it out of his eye with
a silk handkerchief; but they could not get it out, and by the next morning Halstead was suffering
so much that Addison went to summon Doctor Green from the village, six miles away. But the
doctor had gone to Portland, and Addison came back without him. Meanwhile a neighbor, Mrs.
Wilbur, suggested putting an eyestone into Halstead's eye to get out the irritating substance.
Mrs. Wilbur told them that Prudent Bedell, a queer old fellow who lived at Lurvey's Mills,
four miles away, had an eyestone that he would lend to any one for ten cents.

Bedell was generally known as "the old sin-smeller," because he pretended to be able, through
his sense of smell, to detect a criminal. Indeed, the old Squire had once employed him to settle
a dispute for some superstitious lumbermen at one of his logging camps.

Anxious to try anything that might relieve Halstead's suffering, the old Squire sent me to
borrow the eyestone. Although I was fourteen, that was the first time I had ever heard of an
eyestone; from what Mrs. Wilbur had said about it, I supposed that it was something very mysterious.

"It will creep all round, inside the lid of his eye," she had said, "and find the dirt, and
draw it along to the outer corner and push it out."

Physicians and oculists still have some faith in eyestones, I believe, although, on account
of the progress that has been made in methods of treating the eye, they are not as much in
use as formerly. Most eyestones are a calcareous deposit, found in the shell of the common
European crawfish. They are frequently pale yellow or light gray in color.

Usually you put the eyestone under the eyelid at the inner canthus of the eye, and the automatic
action of the eye moves it slowly over the eyeball; thus it is likely to carry along with it
any foreign body that has accidentally lodged in the eye. When the stone has reached the outer
canthus you can remove it, along with any foreign substance it may have collected on its journey
over the eye.

Halstead's sufferings had aroused my sympathy, and I set off at top speed; by running wherever
the road was not uphill, I reached Lurvey's Mills in considerably less than an hour. Several
mill hands were piling logs by the stream bank, and I stopped to inquire for Prudent Bedell.
Resting on their peavies, the men glanced at me curiously.

"D'ye mean the old sin-smeller?" one of them asked me. "What is it you want?"

"I want to borrow his eyestone," I replied.

"Well," the man said, "he lives just across the bridge yonder, in that little green house."

It was a veritable bandbox of a house, boarded, battened, and painted bright green; the door
was a vivid yellow. In response to my knock, a short, elderly man opened the door. His hair
came to his shoulders; he wore a green coat and bright yellow trousers; and his arms were so
long that his large brown hands hung down almost to his knees.

It was his nose, however, that especially caught my attention, for it was tipped back almost
as if the end had been cut off. I am afraid I stared at him.

"And what does this little gentleman want?" he said in a soft, silky voice that filled me with
fresh wonder.

I recalled my wits sufficiently to ask whether he had an eyestone, and if he had, whether he
would lend it to us. Whereupon in the same soft voice he told me that he had the day before
lent his eyestone to a man who lived a mile or more from the mills.

"You can have it if you will go and get it," he said.

I paid him the usual fee of ten cents, and turned to hasten away; but he called me back. "It
must be refreshed," he said.

He gave me a little glass vial half full of some liquid and told me to drop the eyestone into
it when I should get it. Before using the eyestone it should be warmed in warm water, he said;
then it should be put very gently under the lid at the corner of the eye. The eye should be
bandaged with a handkerchief; and it was very desirable, he said, to have the sufferer lie
down, and if possible, go to sleep.

With those directions in mind, I hurried away in quest of the eyestone; but at the house of
the man to whom Bedell had sent me I found that the eyestone had done its work and had already
been lent to another afflicted household, a mile away, where a woman had a sty in her eye.
At that place I overtook it.

The woman, whose sty had been cured, opened a drawer and took out the eyestone, carefully wrapped
in a piece of linen cloth. She handled it gingerly, and as I gazed at the small gray piece
of chalky secretion, something of her own awe of it communicated itself to me. We dropped it
into the vial, to be "refreshed"; and then, buttoning it safe in the pocket of my coat, I set
off for home. Since I was now two or three miles north of Lurvey's Mills, I took another and
shorter road than that by which I had come.

As it chanced, that road took me by the Dole farm, where little Ike lived. I saw no one about
the old, unpainted house or the long, weathered barn, which with its sheds stood alongside
the road. But as I hurried by I heard some hogs making a great noise--apparently under the
barn. They were grunting, squealing, and "barking" gruffly, as if they were angry.

As I stopped for an instant to listen, I heard a low, faint cry, almost a moan, which seemed
to come from under the barn. It was so unmistakably a cry of distress that, in spite of my
haste, I went up to the barn door. Again I heard above the roars of the hogs that pitiful cry.
The great door of the barn stood partly open, and entering the dark, evil-smelling old building,
I walked slowly along toward that end of it from which the sounds came.

Presently I came upon a rickety trapdoor, which opened into the hogpen; the cover of the trapdoor
was turned askew and hung down into the dark hole. Beside the hole lay a heap of freshly pulled
turnips, with the green tops still on them.

The hogs were making a terrible noise below, but above their squealing I heard those faint moans.

"Who's down there?" I called. "What's the matter?"

From the dark, foul hole there came up the plaintive voice of a child. "Oh, oh, take me out!
The hogs are eating me up! They've bit me and bit me!"

It was little Ike. Dole and his wife, I learned later, had gone away for the day on a visit,
and had left the boy alone to do the chores--among other things to feed the hogs at noon; but
as Ike had tugged at the heavy trapdoor to raise it, he had slipped and fallen down through
the hole.

The four gaunt, savage old hogs that were in the pen were hungry and fierce. Even a grown person
would have been in danger from the beasts. The pen, too, was knee-deep in soft muck and was
as dark as a dungeon. In his efforts to escape the hogs, the boy had wallowed round in the
muck. The hole was out of his reach, and the sty was strongly planked up to the barn floor
on all sides.

At last he had got hold of a dirty piece of broken board; backing into one corner of the pen,
he had tried, as the hogs came "barking" up to him, to defend himself by striking them on their
noses. They had bitten his arms and almost torn his clothes off him.

The little fellow had been in the pen for almost two hours, and plainly could not hold out
much longer. Prompt action was necessary.

At first I was at a loss to know how to reach him. I was afraid of those hogs myself, and did
not dare to climb down into the pen. I could see their ugly little eyes gleaming in the dark,
as they roared up at me. At last I hit upon a plan. I threw the turnips down to them; then
I got an axe from the woodshed, and hurried round by way of the cart door to the cellar. While
the hogs were ravenously devouring the turnips, I chopped a hole in the side of the pen, through
which I pulled out little Ike. He was a sorry sight. His thin little arms were bleeding where
the hogs had bitten him, and he was so dirty that I could hardly recognize him. When I attempted
to lead him out of the cellar, he tottered and fell repeatedly.

At last I got him round to the house door--only to find it locked. Dole and his wife had locked
up the house and left little Ike's dinner--a piece of corn bread and some cheese--in a tin
pail on the doorstep; the cat had already eaten most of it. I had intended to take him indoors
and wash him, for he was in a wretched condition. Finally I put him on Dole's wheelbarrow,
which I found by the door of the shed, and wheeled him to the nearest neighbors, the Frosts,
who lived about a quarter of a mile away. Mrs. Frost had long been indignant as to the way
the Doles were treating the boy; she gladly took him in and cared for him, while I hurried
on with the eyestone.

I reached home about four o'clock in the afternoon, and the old Squire thought that, in view
of my errand, I had been gone an unreasonably long time.

Halstead's eye was so much inflamed that we had no little trouble in getting the eyestone under
the lid. Finally, however, the old Squire, with Addison's help, slipped it in. Halstead cried
out, but the old Squire made him keep his eye closed; then the old gentleman bandaged it, and
made him lie down.

But after all, I am unable to report definitely as to the efficacy of the eyestone, for shortly
after five o'clock, when the stone had been in Halstead's eye a little more than an hour, Doctor
Green came. He had returned on the afternoon train from Portland, and learning that we had
sent for him earlier in the day, hurried out to the farm. When he examined Halstead's eye,
he found the eyestone near the outer canthus, and near it the irritating bit of wheat beard.
He removed both together. Whether or not the eyestone had started the piece of wheat beard
moving toward the outer corner of the eye was doubtful; but Doctor Green said, laughingly,
that we could give the good old panacea the benefit of the doubt.

It was not until we were at the supper table that evening--with Halstead sitting at his place,
his eye still bandaged--that I found a chance to explain fully why I had been gone so long
on my errand.

Theodora and grandmother actually shed tears over my account of poor little Ike. The old Squire
was so indignant at the treatment the boy had received that he set off early the next morning
to interview the selectmen. As a result, they took little Ike from the Doles and put him into
another family, the Winslows, who were very kind to him. Mrs. Winslow, indeed, gave him a mother's
care and affection.

The boy soon began to grow properly. Within a year you would hardly have recognized him as
the pinched and skinny little fellow that once had lived at the Dole farm. He grew in mind
as well as body, and before long showed so much promise that the Winslows sent him first to
the village academy, and afterward to Westbrook Seminary, near Portland. When he was about
twenty-one he went West as a teacher; and from that day on his career has been upward.

CHAPTER XXIV

BORROWED FOR A BEE HUNT

We were eating breakfast one morning late in August that summer when through an open window
a queer, cracked voice addressed the old Squire:

"Don't want to disturb ye at your meals, Squire, but I've come over to see if I can't borry
a boy to hark fer me."

It was old Hughy Glinds, who lived alone in a little cabin at the edge of the great woods,
and who gained a livelihood by making baskets and snowshoes, lining bees and turning oxbows.
In his younger days he had been a noted trapper, bear hunter and moose hunter, but now he was
too infirm and rheumatic to take long tramps in the woods.

The old Squire went to the door. "Come in, Glinds," he said.

"No, Squire, I don't believe I will while ye're eatin'. I jest wanted to see if I could borry
one of yer boys this forenoon. I've got a swarm of bees lined over to whar the old-growth woods
begin, and if I'm to git 'em I've got to foller my line on amongst tall trees and knock; and
lately, Squire, I'm gettin' so blamed deaf I snum I can't hear a bee buzz if he's right close
to my head! So I come over to see if I could git a boy to go with me and hark when I knock
on the trees."

"Why, yes, Glinds," said the old Squire, "one of the boys may go with you. That is, he may
if he wants to," he added, turning to us.

Addison said that he had something else he wished to do that forenoon. Halstead and I both
offered our services; but for some reason old Glinds decided that I had better go. Grandmother
Ruth objected at first and went out to talk with the old fellow. "I'm afraid you'll let him
get stung or let a tree fall on him!" she said.

Old Hughy tried to reassure her. "I'll be keerful of him, marm. I promise ye, marm, the boy
shan't be hurt. I'm a-goin' to stifle them bees, marm, and pull out all their stingers." And
the old man laughed uproariously.

Grandmother Ruth shook her head doubtfully; old Hughy's reputation for care and strict veracity
was not of the best.

When I went to get ready for the jaunt grandmother charged me to be cautious and not to go
into any dangerous places, and before I left the house she gave me a pair of gloves and an
old green veil to protect my head.

Before starting for the woods we had to go to old Hughy's cabin to get two pails for carrying
the honey and a kettle and a roll of brimstone for "stifling" the bees. As we passed the Murch
farm the old man told me that he had tried to get Willis, who stood watching us in the dooryard,
to go with him to listen for the bees. "But what do you think!" he exclaimed with assumed indignation.
"That covetous little whelp wouldn't stir a step to help me unless I'd agree to give him half
the honey! So I came to git you, for of course I knowed that as noble a boy as I've heered
you be wouldn't act so pesky covetous as that."

Getting the tin pails, the kettle and the brimstone together with an axe and a compass at the
old man's cabin, we went out across the fields and the pastures north of the Wilbur farm to
the borders of the woods through which old Hughy wanted to follow the bees.

A line of stakes that old Hughy had set up across the open land marked the direction in which
the bees had flown to the forest. After taking our bearings from them by compass we entered
the woods and went on from one large tree to another. Now and again we came to an old tree
that looked as if it were hollow near the top. On every such tree old Hughy knocked loudly
with the axe, crying, "Hark, boy! Hark! D'ye hear 'em? D'ye see any come out up thar?" At times
he drew forth his "specs" and, having adjusted them, peeped and peered upward. Like his ears,
the old man's eyes were becoming too defective for bee hunting.

In that manner we went on for at least a mile, until at last we came to Swift Brook, a turbulent
little stream in a deep, rocky gully. Our course led across the ravine, and while we were hunting
for an easy place to descend I espied bees flying in and out of a woodpecker's hole far up
toward the broken top of a partly decayed basswood tree.

"Here they are!" I shouted, much elated.

Old Hughy couldn't see them even with his glasses on, they were so high and looked so small.
He knocked on the trunk of the tree, and when I told him that I could see bees pouring out
and distinctly hear the hum of those in the tree he was satisfied that I had made no mistake.

When bee hunters trace a swarm to a high tree they usually fell the tree; to that task the
old man and I now set ourselves. The basswood was fully three feet in diameter, and leaned
slightly toward the brook. In spite of the slant, old Hughy thought that by proper cutting
the tree could be made to fall on our side of the gully instead of across it. He threw off
his old coat and set to work, but soon stopped short and began rubbing his shoulder and groaning,
"Oh, my rheumatiz, my rheumatiz! O-o-oh, how it pains me!"

That may have been partly pretense, intended to make me take the axe; for he was a wily old
fellow. However that may be, I took it and did a borrowed boy's best to cut the scarfs as he
directed, but hardly succeeded. I toiled a long time and blistered my palms.

Basswood is not a hard wood, however, and at last the tree started to fall; but instead of
coming down on our side of the gully it fell diagonally across it and crashed into the top
of a great hemlock that stood near the stream below. The impact was so tremendous that many
of the brittle branches of both trees were broken off. At first we thought that the basswood
was going to break clear, but it finally hung precariously against the hemlock at a height
of thirty feet or more above the bed of the brook. From the stump the long trunk extended out
across the brook in a gentle, upward slant to the hemlock. The bees came out in force. Though
in felling the tree I had disturbed them considerably, none of them had come down to sting
us, but now they filled the air. Apparently the swarm was a large one.

Old Hughy was a good deal disappointed. "I snum, that 'ere's a bad mess," he grumbled.

At last he concluded that we should have to fell the hemlock. Judging from the ticklish way
the basswood hung on it, the task looked dangerous. We climbed down into the gully, however,
and, with many an apprehensive glance aloft where the top of the basswood hung threateningly
over our heads, approached the foot of the hemlock and began to chop it. The bees immediately
descended about our heads. Soon one of them stung old Hughy on the ear. We had to beat a retreat
down the gully and wait for the enraged insects to go back into their nest.

The hole they went into was in plain sight and appeared to be the only entrance to the cavity
in which they had stored their honey. It was a round hole and did not look more than two inches
in diameter. While we waited for the bees to return to it old Hughy, still rubbing his sore
ear, changed his plan of attack.

"We've got to shet the stingin' varmints in!" he exclaimed. "One of us has got to walk out
with a plug, 'long that 'ere tree trunk, and stop 'em in."

We climbed back up the side of the gully to the stump of the basswood. There the old man, taking
out his knife, whittled a plug and wrapped round it his old red handkerchief.

"Now this 'ere has got to be stuck in that thar hole," he said, glancing first along the log
that projected out over the gully and then at me. "When I was a boy o' your age I'd wanted
no better fun than to walk out on that log; but my old head is gittin' a leetle giddy. So I
guess you'd better go and stick in this 'ere plug. A smart boy like you can do it jest as easy
as not."

"But I am afraid the bees will sting me!" I objected.

"Oh, you can put on them gloves and tie that 'ere veil over your head," the old man said. "I'll
tie it on fer ye."

I had misgivings, but, not liking to fail old Hughy at a pinch, I let him rig me up for the
feat and at last, taking the plug, started to walk up the slightly inclined tree trunk to the
woodpecker's hole, which was close to the point where the basswood rested against the hemlock.
I found it was not hard to walk up the sloping trunk if I did not look down into the gully.
With stray bees whizzing round me, I slowly took one step after another. Once, I felt the trunk
settle slightly, and I almost decided to go back; but finally I went on and, reaching the hole,
grasped a strong, green limb of the hemlock to steady myself. Then I inserted the plug, which
fitted pretty well, and drove it in with the heel of my boot.

Perhaps it was the jar of the blow, perhaps it was my added weight, but almost instantly I
felt the trunk slip again--and then down into the gully it went with a crash!

Luckily I still had hold of the hemlock limb and clung to it instinctively. For a moment I
dangled there; then with a few convulsive efforts I succeeded in drawing myself to the trunk
of the hemlock and getting my feet on a limb. Breathless, I now glanced downward and was terrified
to see that in falling the basswood had carried away the lower branches of the hemlock and
left no means of climbing down. If the trunk of the hemlock had been smaller I could have clasped
my arms about it and slid down; but it was far too big round for that. In fact, to get down
unassisted was impossible, and I was badly frightened, I suppose I was perched not more than
thirty-five feet above the ground; but to me, glancing fearfully down on the rocks in the bed
of the brook, the distance looked a hundred!

Moreover, the trunk of the basswood had split open when it struck, and all the bees were out.
Clouds of them, rising as high as my legs, began paying their respects to me as the cause of
their trouble. Luckily the veil kept them from my face and neck.

I could see old Hughy on the brink of the gully, staring across at me, open-mouthed, and in
my alarm I called aloud to him to rescue me. He did not reply and seemed at a loss what to do.

I had started to climb higher into the shaggy top of the hemlock, to avoid the bees, when I
heard some one call out, "Hello!" The voice sounded familiar and, glancing across the gully,
I saw Willis Murch coming through the woods. Seeing us pass his house and knowing what we were
in quest of, Willis, curious to know what success we would have, had followed us. He had lost
track of us in the woods for a time, but had finally heard the basswood fall and then had found us.

Even at that distance across the gully I saw Willis's face break into a grin when he saw me
perched in the hemlock. For the present, however, I was too much worried to be proud and implored
his aid. He looked round a while, exchanged a few words with old Hughy and then hailed me.

"I guess we shall have to fell that hemlock to get you down," he shouted, laughing.

Naturally, I did not want that done.

"I shall have to go home for a long rope," he went on, becoming serious. "If we can get the
end of a rope up there, you can tie it to a limb and then come down hand over hand. But I don't
think our folks have a rope long enough; I may have to go round to the old Squire's for one."

Since old Hughy had no better plan to suggest, Willis set off on the run. As the distance was
fully two miles, I had a long wait before me, and so I made myself as comfortable as I could
on the limb and settled down to wait.

Old Hughy hobbled down into the gully with his kettle and tried to smother the bees by putting
the brimstone close to the cleft in the tree trunk and setting it afire; but, although the
fumes rose so pungently that I was obliged to hold my nose to keep from being smothered, the
effect on the bees was not noticeable. Old Hughy then tried throwing water on them. The water
was more efficacious than the brimstone, and before Willis returned the old man was able to
cut out a section of the tree trunk and fill his two pails with the dripping combs--all of
which I viewed not any too happily from aloft.

Willis appeared at last with the coil of rope. With him came Addison and Halstead, much out
of breath, and a few minutes later the old Squire himself arrived. They said that grandmother
Ruth also was on the way. Willis, it seems, had spread alarming reports of my predicament.

Willis and Addison tied numerous knots in the rope so that it should not slip through my hands
and knotted a flat stone into the end of it. Then they took turns in throwing it up toward
me until at length I caught it and tied it firmly to the limb on which I was sitting. Then
I ventured to trust my weight to it and amid much laughter but without any difficulty lowered
myself to the ground.

In fact, I was not exactly the hero. The hero, I think, was Willis. But for his appearance
I hardly know how I should have fared.

Old Hughy, I remember, was rather loath to share the honey with us; but we all took enough
to satisfy us. The old man, indeed, was hardly the hero of the occasion either--a fact that
he became aware of when on our way home we met grandmother Ruth, anxious and red in the face
from her long walk. She expressed herself to him with great frankness. "Didn't you promise
to be careful where you sent that boy!" she exclaimed. "Hugh Glinds, you are a palavering old
humbug!"

Old Hughy had little enough to say; but he tried to smooth matters over by offering her a piece
of honey-comb.

"No, sir," said she. "I want none of your honey!"

All that the old Squire had said when he saw me up in the hemlock was, "Be calm, my son; you
will get down safe." And when they threw the rope up to me he added, "Now, first tie a square
knot and then take good hold of the rope with both hands."

CHAPTER XXV

WHEN THE LION ROARED

At daybreak on September 26, if I remember aright, we started to drive from the old farm to
Portland with eighteen live hogs. There was a crisp frost that morning, so white that till
the sun rose you might have thought there had been a slight fall of snow in the night.

We put eight of the largest hogs into one long farm wagon with high sideboards, drawn by a
span of Percheron work horses, which I drove; the ten smaller hogs we put into another wagon
that Willis Murch drove. By making an early start we hoped to cover forty miles of our journey
before sundown, pass the night at a tavern in the town of Gray where the old Squire was acquainted,
and reach Portland the next noon. Since we wished to avoid unloading the hogs, we took dry
corn and troughs for feeding them in the wagons and buckets for fetching water to them. The
old Squire went along with us for the first fifteen miles to see us well on our way, then left
us and walked to a railroad station a mile or two off the wagon road, where he took the morning
train into Portland, in order to make arrangements for marketing the hogs.

Everything went well during the morning, although the hogs diffused a bad odor along the highway.
Toward noon we stopped by the wayside, near the Upper Village of the New Gloucester Shakers,
to rest and feed the horses, and to give the hogs water. About one o'clock we went on down
the hill to Sabbath Day Pond and into the woods beyond it. The loads were heavy and the horses
were plodding on slowly, when, just round a turn of the road in the woods ahead, we heard a
deep, awful sound, like nothing that had ever come to our ears before. For an instant I thought
it was thunder, it rumbled so portentously: Hough--hough--hough--hough-er-er-er-er-hhh! It
reverberated through the woods till it seemed to me that the earth actually trembled.

Willis's horses stopped short. Willis himself rose to his feet, and it seemed to me his cap
rose up on his head. Other indistinct sounds also came to our ears from along the road ahead,
though nothing was as yet in sight. Then again that awful, prolonged Hough--hough--hough! broke
forth.

Close by, lumbermen had been hauling timber from the forest into the highway and had made a
distinct trail across the road ditch. While Willis stood up, staring, the horses suddenly whirled
half round and bolted for the lumber trail, hogs and all. They did it so abruptly that Willis
had no time to control them, and when the wagon went across the ditch, he was pitched off headlong
into the brush. Before I could set my feet, my span followed them across the ditch; but I managed
to rein them up to a tree trunk, which the wagon tongue struck heavily. There I held them,
though they still plunged and snorted in their terror.

Willis's team was running away along the lumber trail, but before it had gone fifty yards we
heard a crash, and then a horrible squealing. The wagon had gone over a log or a stump and,
upsetting, had spilled all ten hogs into the brushwood.

Willis now jumped to his feet and ran to help me master my team, which was still plunging violently,
and I kept it headed to the tree while he got the halters and tied the horses. Just then we
heard that terrible Hough--hough! again, nearer now. Looking out toward the road, we saw four
teams dragging large, gaudily painted cages that contained animals. The drivers, who wore a
kind of red uniform, pulled up and sat looking in our direction, laughing and shouting derisively.
That exasperated us so greatly that, checking our first impulse to run in pursuit of the horses
and hogs, we rushed to the road to remonstrate.

It was not a full-fledged circus and menagerie, but merely a show on its way from one county
fair to another. In one cage there was a boa constrictor, untruthfully advertised to be thirty
feet long, which a Fat Lady exhibited at each performance, the monster coiled round her neck.
In another cage were six performing monkeys and four educated dogs.

When we saw them that day on the road, the Fat Lady, said to weigh four hundred pounds, was
journeying in a double-seated carriage behind the cages. Squeezed on the seat beside her, rode
a queer-looking little old man, with a long white beard, whose specialty was to eat glass tumblers,
or at least chew them up. He also fought on his hands and knees with one of the dogs. His barking,
growling and worrying were so true to life that the spectators could scarcely tell which was
the dog and which the man. On the back seat was a gypsy fortune teller and a Wild Man, alleged
to hail from the jungles of Borneo and to be so dangerous that two armed keepers had to guard
him in order to prevent him from destroying the local population. As we first saw him, divested
of his "get-up," he looked tame enough. He was conversing sociably with the gypsy fortune teller.

But for the moment our attention and our indignation were directed mainly at the lion. He was
not such a very large lion, but he certainly had a full-sized roar, and the driver of the cage
sat and grinned at us.

"You've no right to be on the road with a lion roaring like that!" Willis shouted severely.

"Wal, young feller, you've no right to be on the road with such a hog smell as that!" the driver
retorted. "Our lion is the best-behaved in the world; he wouldn't ha' roared ef he hadn't smelt
them hogs so strong."

"But you have damaged us!" I cried. "Our horses have run away and smashed things! You'll have
to pay for this!"

Another man, who appeared to be the proprietor, now came from a wagon in the rear of the cavalcade.

"What's that about damages?" he cried. "I'll pay nothing! I have a permit to travel on the
highway!"

"You have no right to scare horses!" Willis retorted. "Your lion made a horrible noise."

"His noise wasn't worse than your hog stench!" the showman rejoined hotly. "My lion has as
good a right to roar as your hogs have to squeal. Drive on!" he shouted to his drivers.

The show moved forward. The Fat Lady looked back and laughed, and the Wild Man pretended to
squeal like a pig; but the gypsy fortune teller smiled and said, "Too bad!"

Having got no satisfaction, we returned hastily to chase our runaway team. We came upon it
less than a hundred yards away, jammed fast between two pine trees. Parts of the harness were
broken, the wagon body was shattered, and ten hogs were at large.

For some minutes we were at a loss to know what to do. How to catch the hogs and put them back
into the wagon was a difficult matter, for many of them weighed three hundred pounds, and moreover
a live hog is a disagreeable animal to lay hands on. But, taking an axe, we cut young pine
trees and constructed a fence round the wagon to serve as a hogpen. Leaving a gap at one end
that could be stopped when the hogs were inside, we then set near the wagon the troughs we
had brought, poured the dry corn into them and called the hogs as if it were feeding time.
Most of them, it seemed, were not far away. As soon as they heard the corn rattling into the
troughs all except three came crowding in. Presently we drove two of the missing ones to the
pen, but one we could not find.

None of the wagon wheels was broken, and in the course of an hour or two, Willis and I succeeded
in patching up the shattered body sufficiently to hold the hogs. But how to get the heavy brutes
off the ground and up into the wagon was a task beyond our resources. When you try to take
a live hog off its feet, he is likely to bite as well as to squeal. We had no tackle for lifting
them.

At last Willis set off to get help. He was gone till dusk and came back without any one; but
he had persuaded two Shakers to come and help us early the next morning--they could not come
that night on account of their evening prayer meeting. One of the Shaker women had sent a loaf
of bread and a piggin half full of Shaker apple sauce to us.

The lantern and bucket that went with Willis's wagon had been smashed; but I had a similar
outfit with mine. So we tied the horses to trees near our improvised hog pound, and fed and
blanketed them by lantern light. Afterwards we brought water for them from a brook not far away.

It was nine o'clock before we were ready to eat our own supper of bread and Shaker apple sauce.
The night was chilly; our lantern went out for lack of oil; we had only light overcoats for
covering; and as we had used our last two matches in lighting the lantern, we could not kindle
a fire.

The night was so cold that we frequently had to jump up and run round to get warm. We slept
scarcely at all. The hogs squealed. They, too, were cold as well as hungry, and toward morning
they quarreled, bit one another and made piercing outcries.

"Oh, don't I wish 'twas morning!" Willis exclaimed again and again.

Fortunately, the Shakers were early risers, and long before sunrise three of them, clad in
gray homespun frocks and broad-brimmed hats, appeared. They greeted us solemnly.

"Thee has met with trouble," said one of them, who was the elder of the village. "But I think
we can give thee aid."

They proved to be past masters at handling hogs. From one of the halters they contrived a muzzle
to prevent the hogs from biting us, and then with their help we caught and muzzled the hogs
one by one and boosted them into the wagon. The good men stayed by us till the horses were
hitched up and we were out of the woods and on the highway again. I had a little money with
me and offered to pay them for their kind services, but the elder said:

"Nay, friend, thee has had trouble enough already with the lion." And at parting all three
said "Fare thee well" very gravely.

We fared on, but not altogether well, for those hungry hogs were now making a terrible uproar.
We drove as far as Gray Corners, where there was a country store, and there I bought a bushel
of oats for the horses and a hundred-pound bag of corn for the hogs. The hogs were so ravenous
that it was hard to be sure that each got his proper share; but we did the best we could and
somewhat reduced their squealing.

The hastily repaired wagon body had also given us trouble, for it had threatened to shake to
pieces as it jolted over the frozen ruts of the road; but we bought a pound of nails, borrowed
a hammer and set to work to repair it better, with the hogs still aboard--much to the amusement
of a crowd of boys who had collected. It was almost noon when we left Gray Corners, and it
was after three o'clock before we reached Westbrook, five miles out of Portland. Here whom
should we see but the old Squire, who, growing anxious over our failure to appear, had driven
out to meet us. He could not help smiling when he heard Willis's indignant account of what
had delayed us.

He thought it likely that we could recover the missing hog, and that evening he inserted a
notice of the loss in the Eastern Argus. But nothing came of the notice or of the many inquiries
that we made on our way home the next day. The animal had wandered off, and whoever captured
it apparently kept quiet. Instead of blaming us, however, the old Squire praised us.

"You did well, boys, in trying circumstances," he said. "You do not meet a lion every day."

