"No, Miss Martha, I come to see you. I have some thing to say to you, and I 'in sure you know
what I mean by this time, don't you?"

"No. How should I?" she coolly replied. It was not true; but the truest-hearted woman that
ever lived could have given no other answer.

Alfred Barton felt the sensation of a groan pass through him, and it very nearly came out of
his mouth. Then he pushed on, in a last wild effort to perform the remainder of his exacted
task in one piece:

"I want you to be--to be--my--wife! That is, my father and yours are agreed about it, and they
think I ought to speak to you. I'm a good deal older, and--and perhaps you mightn't fancy me
in all things, but they say it'll make little difference; and if you haven't thought about
it much, why, there's no hurry as to making up your mind. I've told you now, and to be sure
you ought to know, while the old folks are trying to arrange property matters, and it's my
place, like, to speak to you first."

Here he paused; his face was very red, and the perspiration was oozing in great drops from
every pore. He drew forth the huge red silk handkerchief, and mopped his cheeks, his nose,
and his forehead; then lifted his head and stole a quick glance at Martha. Something in his
face puzzled her, and yet a sudden presentiment of his true state of feeling flashed across
her mind. She still sat, looking steadily at him, and for a few moments did not speak.

"Well?" he stammered.

"Alfred Barton," she said, "I must ask you one question, do you love me?"

He seemed to feel a sharp sting. The muscles of his mouth twitched; he bit his lip, sank his
head again, and murmured,--

"Y-yes."

"He does not," she said to herself. "I am spared this humiliation. It is a mean, low nature,
and fears mine--fears, and would soon hate. He shall not see even so much of me as would be
revealed by a frank, respectful rejection. I must punish him a little for the deceit, and I
now see how to do it."

While these thoughts passed rapidly through her brain, she waited until he should again venture
to meet her eye. When he lifted his head, she exclaimed,--

"You have told an untruth! Don't turn your head away; look me in the face, and hear me tell
you that you do not love me--that you have not come to me of your own desire, and that you
would rather ten thousand times I should say No, if it were not for a little property of mine!
But suppose I, too, were of a similar nature; suppose I cared not for what is called love,
but only for money and lands such as you will inherit; suppose I found the plans of my father
and your father very shrewd and reasonable, and were disposed to enter into them--what then?"

Alfred Barton was surprised out of the last remnant of his hypocrisy. His face, so red up to
this moment, suddenly became sallow; his chin dropped, and an expression of amazement and fright
came into the eyes fixed on Martha's.

The game she was playing assumed a deeper interest; here was something which she could not
yet fathom. She saw what influence had driven him to her, against his inclination, but his
motive for seeming to obey, while dreading success, was a puzzle. Singularly enough, a slight
feeling of commiseration began to soften her previous contempt, and hastened her final answer.

"I see that these suppositions would not please you," she said, "and thank you for the fact.
Your face is more candid than your speech. I am now ready to say, Alfred Barton,--because I
am sure the knowledge will be agreeable to you,--that no lands, no money, no command of my
father, no degree of want, or misery, or disgrace, could ever make me your wife!"

She had risen from her chair while speaking, and he also started to his feet. Her words, though
such an astounding relief in one sense, had nevertheless given him pain; there was a sting
in them which cruelly galled his self-conceit. It was enough to be rejected; she need not have
put an eternal gulf between their natures.

"Well," said he, sliding the rim of his beaver backwards and forwards between his fingers,
"I suppose I'll have to be going. You're very plain-spoken, as I might ha' known. I doubt whether
we two would make a good team, and no offence to you, Miss Martha. Only, it'll be a mortal
disappointment to the old man, and--look here, it a'n't worth while to say anything about it,
is it?"

Alfred Barton was strongly tempted to betray the secret reason which Martha had not yet discovered.
After the strong words he had taken from her, she owed him a kindness, he thought; if she would
only allow the impression that the matter was still undecided--that more time (which a coy
young maiden might reasonably demand) had been granted! On the other hand, he feared that her
clear, firm integrity of character would be repelled by the nature of his motive. He was beginning
to feel, greatly to his own surprise, a profound respect for her.

"If my father questions me about your visit," she said, "I shall tell him simply that I have
declined your offer. No one else is likely to ask me."

"I don't deny," he continued, still lingering near the door, "that I've been urged by my father--yours,
too, for that matter--to make the offer. But I don't want you to think hard of me. I've not
had an easy time of it, and if you knew everything, you'd see that a good deal isn't rightly
to be laid to my account."

He spoke sadly, and so genuine a stamp of unhappiness was impressed upon his face, that Martha's
feeling of commiseration rose to the surface.

"You'll speak to me, when we happen to meet?" he said.

"If I did not," she answered, "every one would suspect that something had occurred. That would
be unpleasant for both of us. Do not think that I shall bear malice against you; on the contrary,
I wish you well."

He stooped, kissed her hand, and then swiftly, silently, and with averted head, left the room.

CHAPTER XVII.

CONSULTATIONS.

When Dr. Deane returned home, in season for supper, he found Martha and Betsy Lavender employed
about their little household matters. The former showed no lack of cheerfulness or composure,
nor, on the other hand, any such nervous unrest as would be natural to a maiden whose hand
had just been asked in marriage. The Doctor could not at all guess, from her demeanor, whether
anything had happened during his absence. That Alfred Barton had not remained was rather an
unfavorable circumstance; but then, possibly, he had not found courage to speak. All things
being considered, it seemed best that he should say nothing to Martha, until he had had another
interview with his prospective son-in-law.

At this time Gilbert Potter, in ignorance of the cunning plans which were laid by the old men,
was working early and late to accomplish all necessary farm-labor by the first of October.
That month he had resolved to devote to the road between Columbia and Newport, and if but average
success attended his hauling, the earnings of six round trips, with the result of his bountiful
harvest, would at last place in his hands the sum necessary to defray the remaining debt upon
the farm. His next year's wheat-crop was already sowed, the seed-clover cut, and the fortnight
which still intervened was to be devoted to threshing. In this emergency, as at reaping-time,
when it was difficult to obtain extra hands, he depended on Deb. Smith, and she did not fail him.

Her principal home, when she was not employed on farm-work, was a log-hut, on the edge of a
wood, belonging to the next farm north of Fairthorn's. This farm--the "Woodrow property," as
it was called--had been stripped of its stock and otherwise pillaged by the British troops,
(Howe and Cornwallis having had their headquarters at Kennett Square), the day previous to
the Battle of Brandywine, and the proprietor had never since recovered from his losses. The
place presented a ruined and desolated appearance, and Deb. Smith, for that reason perhaps,
had settled herself in the original log-cabin of the first settler, beside a swampy bit of
ground, near the road. The Woodrow farm-house was on a ridge beyond the wood, and no other
dwelling was in sight.

The mysterious manner of life of this woman had no doubt given rise to the bad name which she
bore in the neighborhood. She would often disappear for a week or two at a time, and her return
seemed to take place invariably in the night. Sometimes a belated farmer would see the single
front window of her cabin lighted at midnight, and hear the dulled sound of voices in the stillness.
But no one cared to play the spy upon her movements very closely; her great strength and fierce,
reckless temper made her dangerous, and her hostility would have been worse than the itching
of ungratified curiosity. So they let her alone, taking their revenge in the character they
ascribed to her, and the epithets they attached to her name.

When Gilbert, after hitching his horse in a corner of the zigzag picket-fence, climbed over
and approached the cabin, Deb. Smith issued from it to meet him, closing the heavy plank door
carefully behind her.

"So, Mr. Gilbert!" she cried, stretching out her hard, red hand, "I reckon you want me ag'in:
I've been holdin off from many jobs o' thrashin', this week, because I suspicioned ye'd be
comin' for me."

"Thank you, Deborah!" said he, "you're a friend in need."

"Am I? There you speak the truth. Wait till you see me thump the Devil's tattoo with my old
flail on your thrashin'-floor! But you look as cheery as an Easter-mornin' sun; you've not
much for to complain of, these days, I guess?"

Gilbert smiled.

"Take care!" she cried, a kindly softness spreading over her rough face, "good luck's deceitful!
If I had the strands o' your fortin' in my hands, may be I wouldn't twist 'em even; but I ha'n't,
and my fingers is too thick to manage anything smaller 'n a rope-knot. You're goin'? Well,
look out for me bright and early o' Monday, and my sarvice to your mother!"

As he rode over the second hill, on his way to the village, Gilbert's heart leaped, as he beheld
Betsy Lavender just turning into Fairthorn's gate. Except his mother, she was the only person
who knew of his love, and he had great need of her kind and cautious assistance.

He had not allowed his heart simply to revel in the ecstasy of its wonderful fortune, or to
yearn with inexpressible warmth for Martha's dearest presence, though these emotions haunted
him constantly; he had also endeavored to survey the position in which he stood, and to choose
the course which would fulfil both his duty towards her and towards his mother. His coming
independence would have made the prospect hopefully bright, but for the secret which lay across
it like a threatening shadow. Betsy Lavender's assurances had only partially allayed his dread;
something hasty and uncertain in her manner still lingered uneasily in his memory, and he felt
sure that she knew more than she was willing to tell. Moreover, he craved with all the strength
of his heart for another interview with Martha, and he knew of no way to obtain it without
Betsy's help.

Her hand was on the gate-latch when his call reached her ears. Looking up the road, she saw
that he had stopped his horse between the high, bushy banks, and was beckoning earnestly. Darting
a hasty glance at the ivy-draped windows nearest the road, and finding that she was not observed,
she hurried to meet him.

"Betsy," he whispered, "I must see Martha again before I leave, and you must tell me how."

"Tell me how. Folks say that lovyers' wits are sharp," said she, "but I wouldn't give much
for either o' your'n. I don't like underhanded goin's-on, for my part, for things done in darkness'll
come to light, or somethin' like it; but never mind, if they're crooked everyway they won't
run in straight tracks, all't once't. This I see, and you see, and she sees, that we must all
keep as dark as sin."

"But there must be some way," Gilbert insisted. "Do you never walk out together? And couldn't
we arrange a time--you, too, Betsy, I want you as well!"

"I'm afeard I'd be like the fifth wheel to a wagon."

"No, no! You must be there--you must hear a good part of what I have to say."

"A good part--that'll do; thought you didn't mean the whole. Don't fret so, lad; you'll have
Roger trampin' me down, next thing. Martha and me talk o' walkin' over to Polly Withers's.
She promised Martha a pa'tridge-breasted aloe, and they say you've got to plant it in pewter
sand, and only water it once't a month, and how it can grow I can't see; but never mind, all
the same--s'pose we say Friday afternoon about three o'clock, goin' through the big woods between
the Square and Witherses, and you might have a gun, for the squirls is plenty, and so accidental-like,
if anybody should come along"--

"That's it, Betsy!" Gilbert cried, his face flashing, "thank you, a thousand times!"

"A thousand times," she repeated. "Once't is enough."

Gilbert rode homewards, after a pleasant call at Fairthorn's, in a very joyous mood. Not daring
to converse with his mother on the one subject which filled his heart, he showed her the calculations
which positively assured his independence in a short time. She was never weary of going over
the figures, and although her sad, cautious nature always led her to anticipate disappointments,
there was now so much already in hand that she was forced to share her son's sanguine views.
Gilbert could not help noticing that this idea of independence, for which she had labored so
strenuously, seemed to be regarded, in her mind, as the first step towards her mysterious and
long-delayed justification; she was so impatient for its accomplishment, her sad brow lightened
so, her breath came so much freer as she admitted that his calculations were correct!

Nevertheless, as he frequently referred to the matter on the following days, she at last said,--

"Please, Gilbert, don't always talk so certainly of what isn't over and settled! It makes me
fearsome, so to take Providence for granted beforehand. I don't think the Lord likes it, for
I've often noticed that it brings disappointment; and I'd rather be humble and submissive in
heart, the better to deserve our good fortune when it comes."

"You may be right, mother," he answered; "but it's pleasant to me to see you looking a little
more hopeful."

"Ay, lad, I'd never look otherwise, for your sake, if I could." And nothing more was said.

Before sunrise on Monday morning, the rapid, alternate beats of three flails, on Gilbert's
threshing-floor, made the autumnal music which the farmer loves to hear. Two of these--Gilbert's
and Sam's--kept time with each other, one falling as the other rose; but the third, quick,
loud, and filling all the pauses with thundering taps, was wielded by the arm of Deb. Smith.
Day by day, the pile of wheat-sheaves lessened in the great bay, and the cone of golden straw
rose higher in the barn-yard. If a certain black jug, behind the barn-door, needed frequent
replenishing, Gilbert knew that the strength of its contents passed into the red, bare, muscular
arms which shamed his own, and that Deb., while she was under his roof, would allow herself
no coarse excess, either of manner or speech. The fierce, defiant look left her face, and when
she sat, of an evening, with her pipe in the chimney-corner, both mother and son found her
very entertaining company. In Sam she inspired at once admiration and despair. She could take
him by the slack of the waist-band and lift him at arm's-length, and he felt that he should
never be "a full hand," if he were obliged to equal her performances with the flail.

Thus, his arm keeping time to the rhythm of joy in his heart, and tasting the satisfaction
of labor as never before in his life, the days passed to Gilbert Potter. Then came the important
Friday, hazy with "the smoke of burning summer," and softly colored with the drifts of golden-rods
and crimson sumac leaves along the edges of the yet green forests. Easily feigning an errand
to the village, he walked rapidly up the road in the warm afternoon, taking the cross-road
to New-Garden just before reaching Hallowell's, and then struck to the right across the fields.

After passing the crest of the hill, the land sloped gradually down to the eastern end of Tuffkenamon
valley, which terminates at the ridge upon which Kennett Square stands. Below him, on the right,
lay the field and hedge, across which he and Fortune (he wondered what had become of the man)
had followed the chase; and before him, on the level, rose the stately trees of the wood which
was to be his trysting-place. It was a sweet, peaceful scene, and but for the under-current
of trouble upon which all his sensations floated, he could have recognized the beauty and the
bliss of human life, which such golden days suggest.

It was scarcely yet two o'clock, and he watched the smooth field nearest the village for full
three-quarters of an hour, before his sharp eyes could detect any moving form upon its surface.
To impatience succeeded doubt, to doubt, at its most cruel height, a shock of certainty. Betsy
Lavender and Martha Deane had entered the field at the bottom, and, concealed behind the hedge
of black-thorn, had walked half-way to the wood before he discovered them, by means of a lucky
break in the hedge. With breathless haste he descended the slope, entered the wood at its lower
edge, and traversed the tangled thickets of dogwood and haw, until he gained the foot-path,
winding through the very heart of the shade.

It was not many minutes before the two advancing forms glimmered among the leaves. As he sprang
forward to meet them, Miss Betsy Lavender suddenly exclaimed,--"Well, I never, Martha! here's
wintergreen!" and was down on her knees, on the dead leaves, with her long nose nearly touching
the plants.

When the lovers saw each other's eyes, one impulse drew them heart to heart. Each felt the
clasp of the other's arms, and the sweetness of that perfect kiss, which is mutually given,
as mutually taken,--the ripe fruit of love, which having once tasted, all its first timid tokens
seem ever afterwards immature and unsatisfactory. The hearts of both had unconsciously grown
in warmth, in grace and tenderness; and they now felt, for the first time, the utter, reciprocal
surrender of their natures which truly gave them to each other.

As they slowly unwound the blissful embrace, and, holding each other's hands, drew their faces
apart until either's eyes could receive the other's beloved countenance, no words were spoken,--and
none were needed. Thenceforward, neither would ever say to the other,--"Do you love me as well
as ever?" or "Are you sure you can never change?"--for theirs were natures to which such tender
doubt and curiosity were foreign. It was not the age of introversion or analytical love; they
were sound, simple, fervent natures, and believed forever in the great truth which had come
to them.

"Gilbert," said Martha, presently, "it was right that we should meet before you leave home.
I have much to tell you--for now you must know everything that concerns me; it is your right."

Her words were very grateful. To hear her say "It is your right," sent a thrill of purely unselfish
pride through his breast. He admitted an equal right, on her part; the moments were precious,
and he hastened to answer her declaration by one as frank and confiding.

"And I," he said, "could not take another step until I had seen you. Do not fear, Martha, to
test my patience or my faith in you, for anything you may put upon me will be easy to bear.
I have turned our love over and over in my mind; tried to look at it--as we both must, sooner
or later--as something which, though it don't in any wise belong to others, yet with which
others have the power to interfere. The world isn't made quite right, Martha, and we're living
in it."

Martha's lip took a firmer curve. "Our love is right, Gilbert," she exclaimed, "and the world
must give way!"

"It must--I've sworn it! Now let us try to see what are the mountains in our path, and how
we can best get around or over them. First, this is my position."

Thereupon Gilbert clearly and rapidly explained to her his precise situation. He set forth
his favorable prospects of speedy independence, the obstacle which his mother's secret threw
in their way, and his inability to guess any means which might unravel the mystery, and hasten
his and her deliverance. The disgrace once removed, he thought, all other impediments to their
union would be of trifling importance.

"I see all that clearly," said Martha, when he had finished; "now, this is my position."

She told him frankly her father's plans concerning her and gave him, with conscientious minuteness,
all the details of Alfred Barton's interview. At first his face grew dark, but at the close
he was able to view the subject in its true character, and to contemplate it with as careless
a merriment as her own.

"You see, Gilbert," were Martha's final words, "how we are situated. If I marry, against my
father's consent, before I am twenty-five"--

"Don't speak of your property, Martha!" he cried; "I never took that into mind!"

"I know you didn't. Gilbert, but I do! It is mine, and must be mine, to be yours; here you
must let me have my own way--I will obey you in everything else. Four years is not long for
us to wait, having faith in each other; and in that time, I doubt not, your mother's secret
will be revealed. You cannot, must not, press her further; in the meantime we will see each
other as often as possible"--

"Four years!" Gilbert interrupted, in a tone almost of despair.

"Well--not quite," said Martha, smiling archly; "since you must know my exact age, Gilbert,
I was twenty-one on the second of last February; so that the time is really three years, four
months, and eleven days."

"I'd serve seven years, as Jacob served, if need be," he said. "It's not alone the waiting;
it's the anxiety, the uncertainty, the terrible fear of that which I don't know. I'm sure that
Betsy Lavender guesses something about it; have you told her what my mother says?"

"It was your secret, Gilbert."

"I didn't think," he answered, softly. "But it's well she should know. She is the best friend
we have. Betsy!"

"A mortal long time afore I'm wanted!" exclaimed Miss Lavender, with assumed grimness, as she
obeyed the call. "I s'pose you thought there was no watch needed, and both ends o' the path
open to all the world. Well--what am I to do?--move mountains like a grain o' mustard seed
(or however it runs), dip out th' ocean with a pint-pot, or ketch old birds with chaff, eh?"

Gilbert, aware that she was familiar with the particular difficulties on Martha's side, now
made her acquainted with his own. At the mention of his mother's declaration in regard to his
birth, she lifted her hands and nodded her head, listening, thenceforth to the end, with half-closed
eyes and her loose lips drawn up in a curious pucker.

"What do you think of it?" he asked, as she remained silent.

