THE KITCHEN CAT

         AND OTHER STORIES

                BY

            AMY WALTON
 Author of "The Hawthorns" "Susan"
       "A Pair of Clogs" Ruth Lorimer thought, however,
that the very dullest room of all was the nursery, in which she had to
pass so much of her time. It was so high up that the people and carts
and horses in the street below looked like toys. She could not even see
these properly, because there were iron bars to prevent her from
stretching her head out too far, so that all she could do was to look
straight across to the row of tall houses opposite, or up at the sky
between the chimney-pots. How she longed for something different to
look at!

The houses always looked the same, and though the sky changed sometimes, it was often of a
dirty grey colour, and then Ruth gave a little sigh and looked back from the window-seat where
she was kneeling, into the nursery, for something to amuse her. It was full of all sorts of
toys--dolls, and dolls' houses elegantly furnished, pictures and books and many pretty things;
but in spite of all these she often found nothing to please her, for what she wanted more than
anything else was a companion of her own age, and she had no brothers or sisters.

The dolls, however much she pretended, were never glad, or sorry, or happy, or miserable--they
could not answer her when she talked to them, and their beautiful bright eyes had a hard unfeeling
look which became very tiring, for it never changed.

There was certainly Nurse Smith. She was alive and real enough; there was no necessity to "pretend"
anything about her. She was always there, sitting upright and flat-backed beside her work-basket,
frowning a little, not because she was cross, but because she was rather near-sighted. She
had come when Ruth was quite a baby, after Mrs. Lorimer's death, and Aunt Clarkson often spoke
of her as "a treasure". However that might be, she was not an amusing companion; though she
did her best to answer all Ruth's questions, and was always careful of her comfort, and particular
about her being neatly dressed.

Perhaps it was not her fault that she did not understand games, and was quite unable to act
the part of any other character than her own. If she did make the attempt, she failed so miserably
that Ruth had to tell her what to say, which made it so flat and uninteresting that she found
it better to play alone. But she often became weary of this; and there were times when she
was tired of her toys, and tired of Nurse Smith, and did not know what in the world to do with
herself.

Each day passed much in the same way. Ruth's governess came to teach her for an hour every
morning, and then after her early dinner there was a walk with Nurse, generally in one direction.
And after tea it was time to go and see her father--quite a long journey, through the silent
house, down the long stairs to the dining-room where he sat alone at his dessert.

Ruth could not remember her mother, and she saw so little of her father that he seemed almost
a stranger to her. He was so wonderfully busy, and the world he lived in was such a great way
off from hers in the nursery.

In the morning he hurried away just as she was at her breakfast, and all she knew of him was
the resounding slam of the hall door, which came echoing up the staircase. Very often in the
evening he came hastily into the nursery to say good-bye on his way out to some dinner-party,
and at night she woke up to hear his step on the stairs as he came back late. But when he dined
at home Ruth always went downstairs to dessert. Then, as she entered the large sombre dining-room,
where there were great oil paintings on the walls and heavy hangings to the windows, and serious-looking
ponderous furniture, her father would look up from his book, or from papers spread on the table,
and nod kindly to her:

