But, however barren this spot may seem to be of antient relicks, it is not wholly destitute
of objects calculated to revive in the thinking mind, the events to which we have been alluding;
for in the small garden or court before the main front of the present ruins are still to be
seen the delapidated towers of that gate-way thro' which Wolsey entered in melancholy degradation,
and thro' which other great, more prosperous, and often royal visitors were admitted with their
stately trains.

Returning by the first entrance, and passing this interesting gate-way, and the antient stone
wall of the Abbey, overhung with profuse ivy, the visitor will find himself well recompensed
for the trouble of a traverse along the Abbey meadow, from the Bleach-yard at the angle of
the wall, to the navigation bridge at the bottom of North-gate street.

On crossing the antient bed of the Soar, the eye will immediately take its flight over a fine
level plain containing at least five hundred acres of perhaps the richest soil in the kingdom,
for that may truly be said of the Abbey Meadow.  The right of this tract is vested partly in
a number of proprietors who claim the hay, and partly in the inhabitants of Leicester, who
possess the privilege of here pasturing their cows till a certain period of the year.

This ample area was formerly used as a race ground, but that annual sport is now removed to
the South-side of the town, having been here frequently incommoded by the floods from the Soar.

It has lately, at various reviews been dignified by a display of that admirable patriotism,
which, while it reflects honor on the British name in general, is found in particular to glow
with equal zeal and firmness in the breasts of the Volunteers of Leicester and its County.

The view to the North-ward is simply ornamented by the church and village of Belgrave, whose
inhabitants in 1357, in consequence of a dispute with the Abbot concerning the boundaries of
the Stocking Wood, blockaded the North Bridge, and the Fosse, with a determination of depriving
the Monks of their usual supply of provision from their Grange, or Farm at Stoughton.  This
view forms a pleasing contrast to the towering churches and close grouped houses of Leicester.
The eye of taste will however soon turn from these objects and dwell with greater pleasure
on the noble ivied walls bounding the Abbey domains; it will proceed to contemplate the mingling
angles of its ruins, and in the back ground, the rich tops of the woods in the neighbourhood
of Beaumont Leys.  This scene however, will not serve merely to amuse the eye, but will naturally
lead the well informed visitor to interesting and affecting thoughts, while he contemplates
the spot in which, in former times, were acted all the striking rites of the Romish Church,
tho' he may lament the superstitious errors into which a dark and ignorant age had plunged
mankind, he need not join with the destroyer of these venerable institutions in lording then
memory with odious crimes, nor deem them even wholly useless.  Pity and a regard to truth will
lead him to acknowledge that, tho' their worship was less pure than the reformed service now
happily established in this Island, yet it was calculated, by its address to the senses, to
keep alive the remembrance of the faith of the Gospel, and to prevent the warring Baron and
his rude vassals from relapsing into heathenism.  Let it also be remembered, that Monks, odious
as we are wont to consider them, were at one time, the only inhabitants of Christendom, who
were at all acquainted with such sciences as then peered above the mists of overwhelming ignorance.
Of history, they may be said to be the modern fathers, and tho' perhaps, like the age in which
they lived, in some respects, blind themselves, they led, not indirectly to the enlightening
of the present age.  But in their own times they were far from useless; their monasteries were
ever ready to receive the wearied traveller, and many persons of family, tho' of broken fortunes
were honorably maintained at their board.  The poor were gratuitously relieved from their kitchens,
and that in a manner, upon the whole, more favorable to religion and morality than they are
now by those parish rates, which the abolition of monasteries, and the partition of their property
among private individuals, have rendered so oppressively necessary.  To these valuable purposes
the revenues of our Abbey were fully competent, for it possessed the advowsons of thirty six
parish churches in Leicester and its County, which together with lands in various places, and
rights in particular districts, produced annually for its disposal more than one thousand pounds.

Quitting the Abbey meadow, and passing the North lock, we still continue our walk along pleasing
rural scenes.  The sweeps of the river which here beautifully meanders, wash, almost closely,
a large extent of town, affording an agreeable prospect on the left, and a slope finely diversified
with groves and pasturage descends gently to the meadows on the right.  Approaching the Bow-Bridge,
we pass a plot of ground insulated by the Soar, called the Black Friars, once the scite of
a monastery belonging to the Augustine or Black Friars, of which no traces now remain.  That
arm of the river which flows under the west bridge, is by some supposed, from its passing under
the scite of the old Roman town, to be a canal formed by that people for the convenience of
their dwellings.  It is now called the New Soar, and whether it can authentically boast the
honor of being a Roman work, the antiquary may perhaps endeavour in vain to decide.  A tunnel
or Roman sewer, was discovered in 1793, at an equal distance between the Roman ruin, called
Jewry Wall, and the river, and in a direct line towards the latter, which contained some curious
fragments of Roman pottery.

Tho' it be the leading purpose of this survey to point out existing objects, those who lament
the loss of such antient remains as were justly to be prized, will pardon a brief tribute to
the memory of Bow-Bridge. That single arch of stone, richly shadowed with ivy, spanned, at
the corner of this island, the arm of the Soar.  Its beautiful curve, unbroken either by parapet
or hand-rail, well merited the name with which some Antiquaries have graced it, the Rialto
Bridge.  On the top of the bow, feeding on the mould which time had accumulated upon the stony
ridge, flourished a spreading hawthorn; this with the stream below, when sparkling under the
reflection of the western sun, the broken shrubby banks, and the distant swell of Brad-gate
Park hill, formed a picture which has often allured the eye; a picture, that, as it repeatedly
arrested the painter's hand, we can hardly say is now no more.

Of this Bridge, the learned author of the Desiderata Curiosa, who has mistaken it for the adjoining
one of four arches, has given a plate in which is represented a troop of horsemen with banners,
carrying the dead body of Richard the third, thrown upon a horse, over a bridge which never
exceeded three feet; a width fully sufficient for the purpose for which it seems to have been
constructed, that of affording a foot passage from the monastery of the Augustines to a spring
of pure water some yards distant.  This spring till within a few years, was covered with a
large circular stone, having an aperture in the centre, thro' which the monks let down their
pitchers into the water, and retained the name of St. Austin's Well.

But tho' not over this bridge, yet over the adjoining one, known also, probably from its vicinity
to the other, by the name of Bow-Bridge, the monster Richard really passed, proud, angry, and
threatening, mounted on his charger to meet Richmond; and over it, the day after the battle,
his body was brought behind a pursuivant at arms, naked and disgraced, and after being exhibited
in the Town-Hall, then situated at the bottom of Blue-Boar Lane, was interred in the church
of the Grey-Friars near St. Martins.

The name of this king excites in the mind a sensation of horror;--and tho' it required the
overwhelming evidence of human depravity furnished by the French revolution, to make the author
of the "Historic Doubts," believe his crimes possible, the concurrent testimonies both of Lancastrian
and Yorkist Chroniclers, too well demonstrate them.  Tho' the latter may have endeavoured to
soften the picture, and Shakespear may have thrown upon it the darkest shades by working up
his deformity of body and mind into a picture of diabolical horror, the original, the undoubted
traits are preserved by both parties; traits, which so far from being peculiar to Richard,
marked likewise the other characters of the contending houses.  Nor did he deviate widely from
the manners of the times when he "waded thro' slaughter to a throne."

A pleasing woody road leads from Bow-Bridge to Danett's Hall, the seat of Edward Alexander,
M.D.  The ground here rising in a gentle slope obtains a command of the town, and that the
dryness of the soil and agreeableness of the situation, mark it as a desirable spot for residence,
even the taste of the antient Romans may prove; for in the plot of ground known by the name
of the "great cherry orchard," remains a relic of one of their houses.  This is a fragment
of a tesselated floor, discovered a few years ago, but covered over by a former possessor of
the estate.  It is composed of tesseroe of various sizes, forming an elegant geometrical pattern,
but how far it extends, has not yet been ascertained.

Among the great number of these pavements found at Leicester, are three very perfect ones discovered
in the ground belonging to Walter Ruding Esq. adjoining the old Vauxhall, near the west bridge--they
also are composed in curious and exact patterns, and form entire squares; but are now filled
up.  Of these, together with that in the great cherry orchard, very accurate plates are given
in Nichols.

To the westward of Danett's Hall, and West-cotes, the seat of Mr. Ruding, is a lane or bridle
road, commonly called the Fosse, but various reasons lead to the belief that it is not part
of the antient Roman road of that name.  The unvarying testimony of tradition has clearly proved
that the road from the town westward lay, in the reign of Richard the third, over Bow-Bridge.
By attending to the Fosse, which runs nearly in the line of the Narborough road by West-cotes,
it will seem likewise necessary to conclude that the approach to Leicester, in the time of
the Romans, was also over a bridge situate near that spot; for as it is certain that the Fosse
did pass thro' Leicester, and the Romans in forming their roads scrupulously adhered to the
strait line, they would cross the old Soar near this place.

When the Romans penetrated into Britain under the reign of Claudius, they found it almost in
every part, crowded with woods, and infested with morasses; and as the natives well knew how
to avail themeslves of these fastnesses, the island could never be considered as effectually
conquered till it was rendered accessible to the march of the legions, and means were provided
for speedy communication of intelligence from even the most distant parts of the provinces.
On this account their Cohorts early applied themselves to the task of forming roads; nor did
they cease their labours till in the time of Antoninus, they had opened passages thro' the
island in all directions.  In the reign of that emperor, these works, connected with others
which they had already constructed on the continent, formed a great chain of communication,
which, passing thro' Rome, from the Pict's wall, or north west, to Jerusalem, nearly the southeast
point of the empire, was drawn out to the length of 4080 Roman, or as Mr. Reynolds has shewn,
of so many British statute miles.  Along these roads proper relays of horses were stationed
at short distances, and it seems that couriers could travel with ease above an hundred miles
a day.  Two of these roads, as already observed, passed thro' Leicester. One, the Via Devana,
leading from Camalodunum, or Colchester, in Essex, to Deva, of west Chester, a distance of
about two hundred miles, has been lately discovered by some ingenious and able Antiquaries
of the University of Cambridge.

It enters Leicestershire in the neighbourhood of Rockingham; continues a strait road for many
miles till it nearly reaches Leicester, and passing thro' the town it is found to leave the
county near Ashby-de-la-Zouch. The other road, called the Via Fossata or Fosse, always known,
and every where remarkable, traverses the island in a north-east direction, from near Grimsby
on the coast of Lincolnshire, passes thro' Bath, and terminates at Seaton, a village situated
on the coast of Devonshire, a distance of more than two hundred and fifty miles.  This road
enters Leicesteshire at a place called Seg's Hill, on the wolds, or antiently wild and uncultivated
parts of the county; from thence it passes the village of Thurmaston and approaches the East
gates of Leicester, by the street called the Belgrave Gate.  On the south-west of the town
it is again recognized in the Narborough road, and from that village it proceeds again a solitary
lane till it enters Warwickshire at High Cross, where it crosses the no less celebrated Roman
road, the Watling-Street. It is well known that in the formation of these roads, the Romans
spared no cost and labour.  From the remains of some of them it appears that upon a bed of
sand they spread a coating of gravel, upon which the pebbles, and sometimes hewn or squared
stones were laid, firmly compacted together in a bed of cement.  This, we have reason to believe,
was the structure of such of the roads in this island as are distinguished by the title of
Street, a word derived from the Latin Strata, meaning formed of layers.  But such pains were
not, it is probable, taken in all cases; and from the name of one of the roads passing thro'
Leicester, the Fosse, an abbreviation of the Latin Via Fossata, meaning the way ditched, or
dug, we cannot but conclude that it was a road raised by the spade and formed with a rampart,
and probably covered with gravel in the manner of our present turnpike roads.  The same may
also be said of the Via Divana, whose rampart, now covered with grass, the ingenious discoverers
observed in many places.

When the Saxons subdued this island, after the departure of the Romans, to preserve a ready
communication between distant places formed no part of then rude and simple policy.  Hence
the best roads of the Romans were neglected by them, and since the Romans had either forbidden,
or the inclination of the Britons had dissuaded them from erecting villages on the line of
public roads, those roads became useless, and their lasting materials are only to be found,
tho' not distinguished, in the foundations of the neighbouring habitations.  As it would always
be more easy to carry away the materials of a Roman road than dig for them in a quarry, it
has happened that those materials have been in general so intirely removed, as to leave almost
no where any other trace, than history and tradition, of their existence.

From the departure of the Romans in 445, to the beginning of the eighteenth century, the roads
of this Island received little or no improvement from the legislative powers, except by an
order in the reign of Henry the second, that roads should be cleared of woods and made open
that travellers might have leisure, if they should find it prudent, to prepare to resist the
almost armies of robbers which were spread over the face of almost every county.  Roads, being
no longer regulated by any system, to pass from place to place so as to avoid as well as might
be the inconveniences of woods, bogs, and sloughs, became the only business of the traveller.
It was thus by accident the line of our present roads was formed, and to this their frequent
circuits and other inconveniences are owing.

During the period above mentioned they were in general so bad as to be useless for the passage
of any other carriages than carts, and for these only in the summer season; so that the people
inhabiting the same country as the Britons, who are said to have had numbers and great variety
of cars of all kinds, were so exclusively confined to the use of horses and mules, that scarcely
any other mode of conveyance was known even in London, and this so late as in the reigns of
Elizabeth and James the first; for it is certain that when the great Shakespeare fled from
his country and came to town, his first means of subsistence were the pittances he might earn
by holding the horses of the persons who had come from different parts of London to see the
plays then performed at the Bankside Theatre.

It is not indeed to be asserted that till the eighteenth century our roads never received any
repairs, for necessity would frequently call for something of the kind in most places; nor
yet that Toll Bars were antiently wholly unknown; for it is certain that a Gate or Bar was
first erected in the reign of Edward the first, at a place now called Holborn Bars in London,
for the purpose of collecting tolls for the repairs of the roads.  But it must be allowed that
the art of constructing a good and firm road was ill understood, and worse attended to; and
when, in the beginning of the last century, turnpike roads were first made, it was imagined
that the only good form was that of a ridge and furrow lying across the road on the line of
its direction.  Turnpike gates were also in many places considered as such impositions that
even in the beginning of the reign of George the second, some persons contested the payment,
several were frequently seen together, especially at newly erected gates, suffering an interruption
in their journey rather than submit to what they deemed an imposition.  Every one who understands
the true conveniences of life will rejoice, that both the formation and repairs of roads, and
also the usefulness of turn-pike tolls are now better understood; that even countries once
held to be inaccessible are now open at all times and at all seasons to the traveller, and
that most of our roads are now so well suited to the purposes not only of convenience but of
pleasure, that we have no reason to lament the destruction of the Roman ways, or even not to
think that we have within these few years greatly surpassed them in the expedition of our mails
and all the conveniences and comforts of travelling.

On this western side of the town, where its environs afford the attraction of woody scenery,
the stranger is invited to prolong his stroll round Ruding's Walk.  This walk, tho' a continuation
of the plantation that encloses West-cotes, is liberally left open by its possessor, who generously
shares with the public the pleasure of his cool and shady scenery.  Where the walk, after winding
thro' a flourishing shrubbery, enters a grove of tall and venerable elms, the churches and
buildings of the town, broken by the intermediate trees of the paddock, and the long line of
distance varied by villages, scattered dwellings and corn-mills, unite in a rich and pleasing
prospect.

On turning towards the West, the lover of contrast may for a moment call to his imagination
the dark, heavy, and almost impenetrable forest which covered these lands in the twelfth century,
and depicture figures of the inhabitants of Leicester bearing from thence their allowed load
of wood, the supply for their hearths, and for this privilege, paying at the West bridge, their
toll of brigg silver to their feudal Baron.  To this picture he will oppose the present scene
of pasturage, flocks, and free husbandmen, cultivating the earth under the protection of just
and equal laws.  The slightest glance at past ages is a moral study, that renders us not only
satisfied but grateful.

We cannot pass West-cotes, without noticing an object in the possession of Mr. Ruding, highly
interesting to the admirers of the fine Arts.  This is a picture in painted glass, representing
Mutius Scaevola affording Porsena an astonishing proof of his resolution by burning that hand
which had assassinated the secretary instead of the king.  The exquisite finish, and perfect
preservation of this small piece bespeak it of the antient Flemish school, whose artists according
to Guicciardini, invented the mode of burning their colours into the glass so as to secure
them from the corrosion of water, wind, or even time.  There is no department of the delightful
art of painting that so much excites wonder as this. When, in examining this piece, it is considered
that every tint and demi-tint of the highly relieved drapery, every stroke of the distant tents
and towers, was laid on in a fusile state; that delicate command of skill which could prevent
the shades from liquefying into each other, and arrest every touch in its assigned place, so
as to produce the effects of the most finished oil painting, cannot be sufficiently admired.

Entering the town we pass the Braunston Gate, to the bridge of the same name, crossing the
old Soar, and soon arrive at the West bridge, which crosses the new Soar.  From hence the canal,
taking the name of Union Canal, proceeds toward Market Harborough.  On the corner of an old
house upon the bridge, is an antient wooden bracket, which formerly supported a bell, by some
supposed to have been used by the mendicant brothers of the neighbouring monastery of St. Augustine,
who here took their station to beg alms, or, which is more probable, it might have been the
bell belonging to the porter of the gate which stood here.

The street called Apple-gate, that leads us to the church of St. Nicholas, will not be passed
without interest by those who recollect that on this spot, where the ground rises in a gentle
ascent from the river, the Legions of Rome established their town; and we are now arrived at
an object which brings them more forcibly to remembrance, a massy arched wall, commonly termed,
from its bounding the quarter antiently inhabited by the Jews, the Jewry Wall.

This ruin, so minutely described by many Antiquaries, will afford to curious and learned observers,
a valuable specimen of the mode of building practised by the Romans, but the uses for which
it was designed, will, most probably, for ever elude their researches.  They will not however,
forbear their conjectures concerning it; of these, two have obtained most credit; one, that
it was a temple of the Roman Janus; and the other, the Janua, or great Gate-way, of the Roman
town.  The latter seems chiefly supported by the assertion of the learned Leman, that the line
of the Fosse, having joined the Via Devana, runs thro' this spot. But whoever minutely examines
the arches, will not easily overcome the objections which the work affords to oppose this opinion;
or assign a reason why a city no larger than our Ratae should have a Gateway with so many openings;
nor does any satisfactory answer occur to the query why a gate should be placed in what seems
to have been the central part of the antient city.  And perhaps all the evidence for the other
opinion rests upon the dark sooty coat that encrusts the interior of the arches; an appearance
which the smoak of the town would easily produce in one century.  Indeed, little, it seems,
can be concluded from the present outside of the work; for as we cannot conceive that the Romans
would have elected so rough an edifice, it must be supposed that the present remains were originally
coated with workmanship more worthy of such polished builders.  If, however we must indulge
a conjecture, we shall be led to imagine, from the slight remain of ornament, which is only
the fragment of a niche, that this wall was either part of a Roman temple or bath. Still however
such an opinion rests, and must rest, on nothing but conjecture, since the remains are too
scanty to afford sufficient data for a settled opinion.  Thus may we take our leave of this
remarkable object, which, tho' incontrovertibly of Roman origin, and likely to exist when the
church built with its stolen spoils shall be no more, must continue for ever, as it is at present,
an interesting mystery.

The adjoining church of St. Nicholas is a small edifice of very rude and consequently very
antient construction.  It has evidently been built at different periods.  It consists only
of two aisles, the north one having long since been taken down; the south aisle is gothic,
and the other, properly the nave, is of that massy unornamented style, in use before and at
the conquest; from the circumstance of its being built with the materials of the neighbouring
Roman work, it will perhaps be no anachronism to assign to it a date prior to that period.
The tower is also Saxon; and the spire having been damaged by the wind is now taken down.

The area, eastward of the churchyard, is called Holy Bones; bones of oxen having been there
dug up in sufficient numbers to induce the belief that it was once a place of sacrifice.  The
church of St. Augustine which stood on this spot, is supposed to have been destroyed before
the conquest.

At the corner of this area is a charity school, established on the bounty bequeathed by Ald.
Gabriel Newton, for the clothing and educating thirty five boys; and in the terms of the founder's
will, "instructing them in toning and psalmody."

In a lane not far from St. Nicholas' church, called Harvey Lane, is the meeting house of the
Calvinistic Baptists, which is capable of containing 500 persons.

From St. Nicholas' street, we again arrive at the High-Cross, and proceed southward, along
High-Cross-Street.  In this street, in the house of Mr. Stephens, are the remains of a chantry
or chapel, established for the purpose of saying masses for the dead, once belonging to St.
Martins church.  They consist of a range of windows, exhibiting in curiously painted glass,
a regular series of sacred history.

The next object, worthy of attention, at which we arrive, is an elegant gothic building, with
an inscription "Consanguinitarium, 1792."  It consists of five neat dwellings, to which is
annexed a yearly stipend of upwards of 60l. and was built by John Johnson, Esq. a well-known
Architect as a perpetual home for such of his relations as may not be favored by successful
fortune.

Turning down a narrow alley, called Castle Street, we arrive at a spacious area, on the right
of which is a charity school, built in 1785, belonging to the parish of St. Mary, which clothes
and educates 45 boys and 35 girls.

