 If not, she says that she will come back
here, for that certainly she will see us. She would have stayed altogether perhaps, if it had
not been for her book upon art which she is engaged to bring out next year, and the materials
for which are to be sought. As to Pisa, she liked it just as we like it. Oh, it is so beautiful
and so full of repose, yet not desolate: it is rather the repose of sleep than of death. Then
after the first ten days of rain, which seemed to refer us fatally to Alfieri's 'piove e ripiove'
came as perpetual a divine sunshine, such cloudless, exquisite weather that we ask whether
it may not be June instead of November. Every day I am out walking while the golden oranges
look at me over the walls, and when I am tired Robert and I sit down on a stone to watch the
lizards. We have been to your seashore, too, and seen your island, only he insists on it (Robert
does) that it is not Corsica but Gorgona, and that Corsica is not in sight. Beautiful and blue
the island was, however, in any case. It might have been Romero's instead of either. Also we
have driven up to the foot of the mountains, and seen them reflected down in the little pure
lake of Ascuno, and we have seen the pine woods, and met the camels laden with faggots all
in a line. So now ask me again if I enjoy my liberty as you expect. My head goes round sometimes,
that is all. I never was happy before in my life. Ah, but, of course, the painful thoughts
recur! There are some whom I love too tenderly to be easy under their displeasure, or even
under their injustice. Only it seems to me that with time and patience my poor dearest papa
will be melted into opening his arms to us--will be melted into a clear understanding of motives
and intentions; I cannot believe that he will forget me, as he says he will, and go on thinking
me to be dead rather than alive and happy. So I manage to hope for the best, and all that remains,
all my life here, is best already, could not be better or happier. And willingly tell dear
Mr. Martin I would take him and you for witnesses of it, and in the meanwhile he is not to
send me tantalising messages; no, indeed, unless you really, really, should let yourselves
be wafted our way, and could you do so much better at Pau? particularly if Fanny Hanford should
come here. Will she really? The climate is described by the inhabitants as a 'pleasant spring
throughout the winter,' and if you were to see Robert and me threading our path along the shady
side everywhere to avoid the 'excessive heat of the sun' in this November (?) it would appear
a good beginning. We are not in the warm orthodox position by the Arno because we heard with
our ears one of the best physicians of the place advise against it. 'Better,' he said, 'to
have cool rooms to live in and warm walks to go out along.' The rooms we have are rather over-cool
perhaps; we are obliged to have a little fire in the sitting-room, in the mornings and evenings
that is; but I do not fear for the winter, there is too much difference to my feelings between
this November and any English November I ever knew. We have our dinner from the Trattoria at
two o'clock, and can dine our favourite way on thrushes and Chianti with a miraculous cheapness,
and no trouble, no cook, no kitchen; the prophet Elijah or the lilies of the field took as
little thought for their dining, which exactly suits us. It is a continental fashion which
we never cease commending. Then at six we have coffee, and rolls of milk, made of milk, I mean,
and at nine our supper (call it supper, if you please) of roast chestnuts and grapes. So you
see how primitive we are, and how I forget to praise the eggs at breakfast. The worst of Pisa
is, or would be to some persons, that, socially speaking, it has its dullnesses; it is not
lively like Florence, not in that way. But we do not want society, we shun it rather. We like
the Duomo and the Campo Santo instead. Then we know a little of Professor Ferucci, who gives
us access to the University library, and we subscribe to a modern one, and we have plenty of
writing to do of our own. If we can do anything for Fanny Hanford, let us know. It would be
too happy, I suppose, to have to do it for yourselves. Think, however, I am quite well, quite
well. I can thank God, too, for being alive and well. Make dear Mr. Martin keep well, and not
forget himself in the Herefordshire cold--draw him into the sun somewhere. Now write and tell
me everything of your plans and of you both, dearest friends. My husband bids me say that he
desires to have my friends for his own friends, and that he is grateful to you for not crossing
that feeling. Let him send his regards to you. And let me be throughout all changes,

Your ever faithful and most affectionate,

BA.

FOOTNOTES:

[123] Anna Jameson (1794-1860) was a woman of letters and an art-critic at one time of immense
influence through her illustrated books on "Sacred and Legendary" (as well as some other) "Art."
But, as somehow or other happens not infrequently, the objects of her "affection and generosity"
did not include her husband.

EDWARD FITZGERALD (1809-1883)

     Not much need be added to what was said in the Introduction
     about this famous translator and almost equally, though less
     uniquely, remarkable letter-writer. His life was entirely
     uneventful and his friendships have been already
     commemorated. The version of Omar Khayyàm appeared in 1859;
     was an utter "drug"--remainder copies going at a few
     pence--for a time; but became one of the most admired books
     of the English nineteenth century before very long. Some of
     his Letters were published at various times from 1889 to
     1901 (those to Fanny Kemble in 1895). It is not perhaps
     merely fanciful to suggest that the "uniqueness" above
     glanced at does supply a sort of connection between the
     Letters and the Works. The faculty of at once retaining
     the matter of a subject and transforming it in treatment has
     perhaps never, as regards translation, been exhibited in
     such transcendence as in the English Rubaiyàt. But
     something of this same faculty must belong to every good
     letter-writer--and a good deal of it certainly is shown by
     FitzGerald in his letters. Indeed one of the processes of
     letter-and memoir-study (the memoir as has been said is
     practically an "open" letter) is that of comparing the
     treatments of the same subject by different persons--say of
     the Great Fire by Pepys and Evelyn, of the Riots of '80 by
     Walpole and Johnson. He himself, as will be seen, calls the
     letter given below "not very interesting." It seems to me
     very interesting indeed: and likely to be increasingly so as
     time goes on. Few things could be more characteristic of the
     writer than his way of "visiting his sister" by living alone
     in lodgings all day for a month. The "old
     age"--forty-five--is hardly less so. The allusions to
     "Alfred" (Tennyson); "old" Thackeray, for whom he constantly
     keeps the affectionate school and college use of the
     adjective; Landor[124] (who unluckily did not die at Bath
     though he might have done so but for one of the last and
     least creditable of his eccentricities); Beckford ("Old
     Vathek"), and a fourth "old," Rogers (who was one of
     FitzGerald's aversions); Oxford (as yet almost unstained by
     any modernities spiritual or material); and Bath[125] (to
     remain still longer a "haunt of ancient peace")--are
     precious. The fifth "old," Spedding, who devoted chiefly to
     Bacon talents worthy of more varied exercise, was one of the
     innermost Tennyson set, as was "Harry" Lushington, who died
     very soon after this letter was written. "Your Book" is F.
     Tennyson's Days and Hours, a volume of poetry while
     reading which probably many people have wondered in what
     respect it came short of really great poetry, though they
     felt it did so.

44. TO FREDERIC TENNYSON

BATH May 7/54.

My dear Frederic,

You see to what fashionable places I am reduced in my old Age. The truth is however I am come
here by way of Visit to a sister I have scarce seen these six years; my visit consisting in
this that I live alone in a lodging of my own by day, and spend two or three hours with her
in the Evening. This has been my way of Life for three weeks, and will be so for some ten days
more: after which I talk of flying back to more native counties. I was to have gone on to see
Alfred in his "Island Home" from here: but it appears he goes to London about the same time
I quit this place: so I must and shall defer my Visit to him. Perhaps I shall catch a sight
of him in London; as also of old Thackeray who, Donne writes me word, came suddenly on him
in Pall Mall the other day: while all the while people supposed The Newcomes were being indited
at Rome or Naples.

If ever you live in England you must live here at Bath. It really is a splendid City in a lovely,
even a noble, Country. Did you ever see it? One beautiful feature in the place is the quantity
of Garden and Orchard it is all through embroidered with. Then the Streets, when you go into
them, are as handsome and gay as London, gayer and handsomer because cleaner and in a clearer
Atmosphere; and if you want the Country you get into it (and a very fine Country) on all sides
and directly. Then there is such Choice of Houses, Cheap as well as Dear, of all sizes, with
good Markets, Railways etc. I am not sure I shall not come here for part of the Winter. It
is a place you would like, I am sure: though I do not say but you are better in Florence. Then
on the top of the hill is old Vathek's Tower, which he used to sit and read in daily, and from
which he could see his own Fonthill, while it stood. Old Landor quoted to me 'Nullus in orbe
locus, etc.,' apropos of Bath: he, you may know, has lived here for years, and I should think
would die here, though not yet. He seems so strong that he may rival old Rogers; of whom indeed
one Newspaper gave what is called an 'Alarming Report of Mr. Rogers' Health' the other day,
but another contradicted it directly and indignantly, and declared the Venerable Poet never
was better. Landor has some hundred and fifty Pictures; each of which he thinks the finest
specimen of the finest Master, and has a long story about, how he got it, when, etc. I dare
say some are very good: but also some very bad. He appeared to me to judge of them as he does
of Books and Men; with a most uncompromising perversity which the Phrenologists must explain
to us after his Death.

By the bye, about your Book, which of course you wish me to say something about. Parker sent
me down a copy 'from the Author' for which I hereby thank you. If you believe my word, you
already know my Estimation of so much that is in it: you have already guessed that I should
have made a different selection from the great Volume which is now in Tatters. As I differ
in Taste from the world, however, quite as much as from you, I do not know but you have done
very much better in choosing as you have; the few people I have seen are very much pleased
with it, the Cowells at Oxford delighted. A Bookseller there sold all his Copies the first
day they came down: and even in Bath a Bookseller (and not one of the Principal) told me a
fortnight ago he had sold some twenty copies. I have not been in Town since it came out: and
have now so little correspondence with literati I can't tell you about them. There was a very
unfair Review in the Athenaeum; which is the only Literary Paper I see: but I am told there
are laudatory ones in Examiner and Spectator.

I was five weeks at Oxford, visiting the Cowells in just the same way that I am visiting my
Sister here. I also liked Oxford greatly: but not so well I think as Bath: which is so large
and busy that one is drowned in it as much as in London. There are often concerts, etc., for
those who like them; I only go to a shilling affair that comes off every Saturday at what they
call the Pump Room. On these occasions there is sometimes some Good Music if not excellently
played. Last Saturday I heard a fine Trio of Beethoven. Mendelssohn's things are mostly tiresome
to me. I have brought my old Handel Book here and recreate myself now and then with pounding
one of the old Giant's Overtures on my sister's Piano, as I used to do on that Spinnet at my
Cottage. As to Operas, and Exeter Halls, I have almost done with them: they give me no pleasure,
I scarce know why.

I suppose there is no chance of your being over in England this year, and perhaps as little
Chance of my being in Italy. All I can say is, the latter is not impossible, which I suppose
I may equally say of the former. But pray write me. You can always direct to me at Donne's,
12, St. James' Square, or at Rev. G. Crabbe's, Bredfield, Woodbridge. Either way the letter
will soon reach me. Write soon, Frederic, and let me hear how you and yours are: and don't
wait, as you usually do, for some inundation of the Arno to set your pen agoing. Write ever
so shortly and whatever-about-ly. I have no news to tell you of Friends. I saw old Spedding
in London; only doubly calm after the death of a Niece he dearly loved and whose deathbed at
Hastings he had just been waiting upon. Harry Lushington wrote a martial Ode on seeing the
Guards march over Waterloo Bridge towards the East: I did not see it, but it was much admired
and handed about, I believe. And now my paper is out: and I am going through the rain (it is
said to rain very much here) to my Sister's. So Goodbye, and write to me, as I beg you, in
reply to this long if not very interesting letter.

FOOTNOTES:

[124] "Fitz's" remarks on Landor's judgment of "Pictures, Books and Men" are very amusing;
for they have been often repeated in regard to his own on all these subjects. In fact the two,
though FitzGerald was not so childish as Landor, had much in common.

[125] The curious eulogy--preferring it to Oxford as being "large and busy" enough to "drown
one as much" as London--is also very characteristic of FitzGerald. You can be alone in the
country and in a large town--hardly in a small one.

FRANCES ANNE KEMBLE (1809-1893)

     To what has been said before of this remarkably gifted lady
     little need be added. The two letters which follow, derived
     from Further Records (London, 1890), were written rather
     late in her life, but are characteristic, in ways partly
     coinciding, partly divergent, of her strong intellect[126]
     and her powers of expression. The note to the ghost-story
     leaves open the question whether Fanny did or did not know
     the accepted doctrine that the master and mistress of a
     haunted house are exempt from actual haunting. The "whiff of
     grape-shot" (as Carlyle might have called it) on the
     "Bakespearian" absurdity is one of the best things on the
     subject that the present writer, in a long and wide
     experience, has come across.

45. TO H---- [EXTRACT]

YORK FARM, BRANCHTOWN, PHILADELPHIA, Monday May 18th, 1874.

One evening that my maid was sitting in the room from which she could see the whole of the
staircase and upper landing, she saw the door of my bedroom open, and an elderly woman in a
flannel dressing-gown, with a bonnet on her head, and a candle in her hand come out, walk the
whole length of the passage, and return again into the bedroom, shutting the door after her.
My maid knew that I was in the drawing-room below in my usual black velvet evening dress; moreover,
the person she had seen bore no resemblance either in figure or face to me, or to any member
of my household, which consisted of three young servant women besides herself, and a negro
man-servant. My maid was a remarkably courageous and reasonable person, and, though very much
startled (for she went directly upstairs and found no one in the rooms), she kept her counsel,
and mentioned the circumstance to nobody, though, as she told me afterwards, she was so afraid
lest I should have a similar visitation, that she was strongly tempted to ask Dr. W----'s advice
as to the propriety of mentioning her experience to me. She refrained from doing so, however,
and some time later, as she was sitting in the dusk in the same room, the man-servant came
in to light the gas and made her start, observing which, he said, "Why, lors, Miss Ellen, you
jump as if you had seen a ghost." In spite of her late experience, Ellen very gravely replied,
"Nonsense, William, how can you talk such stuff! You don't believe in such things as ghosts,
do you?" "Well," he said, "I don't know just so sure what to say to that, seeing it's very
well known there was a ghost in this house." "Pshaw!" said Ellen. "Whose ghost?" "Well, poor
Mrs. R----'s ghost, it's very well known, walks about this house, and no great wonder either,
seeing how miserably she lived and died here." To Ellen's persistent expressions of contemptuous
incredulity, he went on, "Well, Miss Ellen, all I can say is, several girls" (i.e. maid-servants)
"have left this house on account of it"; and there the conversation ended. Some days after
this, Ellen coming into the drawing-room to speak to me, stopped abruptly at the door, and
stood there, having suddenly recognized in a portrait immediately opposite to it, and which
was that of the dead mistress of the house, the face of the person she had seen come out of
my bedroom. I think this a very tidy ghost story; and I am bound to add, as a proper commentary
on it, that I have never inhabited a house which affected me with a sense of such intolerable
melancholy gloominess as this; without any assignable reason whatever, either in its situation
or any of its conditions. My maid, to the present day, persists in every detail (and without
the slightest variation) of this experience of hers, absolutely rejecting my explanation of
it; that she had heard, without paying any particular attention to it, some talk among the
other servants about the ghost in the house, which had remained unconsciously to her in her
memory, and reproduced itself in this morbid nervous effect of her imagination.

46. To H---- [EXTRACT]

YORK FARM, Sunday, December 6th, 1874.

My dearest H----,

It is not possible for me to feel the slightest interest in the sort of literary feat which
I consider writing upon "who wrote Shakespeare?" to be. I was very intimate with Harness, Milman,
Dyce, Collier--all Shakespearian editors, commentators, and scholars--and this absurd theory
about Bacon, which was first broached a good many years ago, never obtained credit for a moment
with them; nor did they ever entertain for an instant a doubt that the plays attributed to
William Shakespeare of Stratford-on-Avon were really written by him. Now I am intimately acquainted
and in frequent communication with William Donne, Edward FitzGerald, and James Spedding, all
thorough Shakespeare scholars, and the latter a man who has just published a work upon Bacon,
which has been really the labour of his life; none of these men, competent judges of the matter,
ever mentions the question of "Who wrote Shakespeare?" except as a ludicrous thing to be laughed
at, and I think they may be trusted to decide whether it is or is not so.

I have a slight feeling of disgust at the attack made thus on the personality of my greatest
mental benefactor; and consider the whole thing a misapplication, not to say waste, of time
and ingenuity that might be better employed. As I regard the memory of Shakespeare with love,
veneration, and gratitude, and am proud and happy to be his countrywoman, considering it among
the privileges of my English birth, I resent the endeavour to prove that he deserved none of
these feelings, but was a mere literary impostor. I wonder the question had any interest for
you, for I should not have supposed you imagined Shakespeare had not written his own plays,
Irish though you be. Do you remember the servant's joke in the farce of "High Life Below Stairs"
where the cook asks, "Who wrote Shakespeare?" and one of the others answers, with, at any rate,
partial plausibility, "Oh! why, Colley Cibber, to be sure!"

FOOTNOTES:

[126] Sometimes one thinks her the wisest woman who ever lived. "Nothing seems stranger than
the delusions of other people when they have ceased to be our own" suggests La Rochefoucauld
and comes near to Solomon; but whosoever may have anticipated or prompted her, he is not at
the moment within my memory. But she is often not wise at all: and even her good wits are not
always left unaffected by her bad temper. It is really amusing to read Mrs. Carlyle's rather
mischievous account of Mrs. Butler (F. K.'s married name) calling and carrying a whip "to keep
her hand in": and then to come on F. K.'s waspish resentment at these words, when they were
published.

WILLIAM MAKEPEACE THACKERAY (1811-1863)

     So much has been said of Thackeray's letter-writing powers
     in the Introduction that not much need be added here on the
     general side. But a few words may be allowed on what we may
     call the conditioning circumstances which affected these
     powers, and made the result so peculiar. Except in Swift's
     case--a thing piquant in itself considering the injustice of
     the later writer to the earlier--hardly any body of letters
     exhibits these conditions so obviously and in so varied a
     fashion. In both there was the utmost intellectual satire
     combined with the utmost tenderness of feeling. Thackeray of
     course, partly from nature and partly from the influence of
     time, did not mask his tenderness and double-edge his
     severity with roughness and coarseness. But the combination
     was intrinsically not very different. There has also to be
     taken into account in Thackeray's case domestic
     sorrow--coming quickly and life-long after it began; means
     long restricted (partly by his own folly but not so more
     tolerable); recognition of genius almost as long deferred;
     and yet other "maladies of the soul." The result was a
     constant ferment, of which the letters are in a way the
     relieving valve or tap. That they are often apparently
     light-hearted has nothing surprising in it: for when a man
     habitually "eats his heart" it naturally becomes
     lighter--till there is nothing of it left.

     He is, however, not easy to "sample," there being, as has
     been said, no authorised collection to draw upon and other
     difficulties in the way. What follows may serve for fault
     of a better: and the Spectator letter-pastiche referred to
     above under Walpole, will complete it perhaps more
     appropriately than may at first appear. For while the latter
     is quite Addisonian, not merely in dress but in body, its
     soul is blended of two natures--the model's and the
     artist's--in the rather uncanny fashion which makes Esmond
     as a whole so marvellous, except to those stalwarts who hold
     that, as nobody before the twentieth century knew anything
     about anything, Thackeray could not know about the
     eighteenth.

47. TO MISS LUCY BAXTER

WASHINGTON, Saturday Feb. 19. 1853.

My dear little kind Lucy:

I began to write you a letter in the railroad yesterday, but it bumped with more than ordinary
violence, and I was forced to give up the endeavour. I did not know how ill Lucy was at that
time, only remembered that I owed her a letter for that pretty one you wrote me at Philadelphia,
when Sarah was sick and you acted as her Secretary. Is there going to be always Somebody sick
at the brown house? If I were to come there now, I wonder should I be allowed to come and see
you in your night-cap--I wonder even do you wear a night-cap? I should step up, take your little
hand, which I daresay is lying outside the coverlet, give it a little shake; and then sit down
and talk all sorts of stuff and nonsense to you for half an hour; but very kind and gentle,
not so as to make you laugh too much or your little back ache any more. Did I not tell you
to leave off that beecely jimnayshum? I am always giving fine advice to girls in brown houses,
and they always keep on never minding. It is not difficult to write lying in bed--this is written
not in bed, but on a sofa. If you write the upright hand it's quite easy; slanting-dicular
is not so pleasant, though. I have just come back from Baltimore and find your mother's and
sister's melancholy letters. I thought to myself, perhaps I might see them on this very sofa
and pictured to myself their 2 kind faces. Mr. Crampton was going to ask them to dinner, I
had made arrangements to get Sarah nice partners at the ball--Why did dear little Lucy tumble
down at the Gymnasium? Many a pretty plan in life tumbles down so, Miss Lucy, and falls on
its back. But the good of being ill is to find how kind one's friends are; of being at a pinch
(I do not know whether I may use the expression--whether "pinch" is an indelicate word in this
country; it is used by our old writers to signify poverty, narrow circumstances, res angusta)--the
good of being poor, I say, is to find friends to help you, I have been both ill and poor, and
found, thank God, such consolation in those evils; and I daresay at this moment, now you are
laid up, you are the person of the most importance in the whole house--Sarah is sliding about
the room with cordials in her hands and eyes; Libby is sitting quite disconsolate by the bed
(poor Libby! when one little bird fell off the perch, I wonder the other did not go up and
fall off, too!) the expression of sympathy in Ben's eyes is perfectly heart-rending; even George
is quiet; and your Father, Mother and Uncle (all 3 so notorious for their violence of temper
and language) have actually forgotten to scold. "Ach, du lieber Himmel," says Herr Strumpf--isn't
his name Herr Strumpf?--the German master, "die schöne Fräulein ist krank!" and bursts into
tears on the Pianofortyfier's shoulder when they hear the news (through his sobs) from black
John. We have an Ebony femme de chambre here; when I came from Baltimore just now I found her
in the following costume and attitude standing for her picture to Mr. Crowe. She makes the
beds with that pipe in her mouf and leaves it about in the rooms. Wouldn't she have been a
nice lady's-maid for your mother and Miss Bally Saxter?

But even if Miss Lucy had not had her fall, I daresay there would have been no party. Here
is a great snow-storm falling, though yesterday was as bland and bright as May (English May,
I mean) and how could we have lionized Baltimore, and gone to Mount Vernon, and taken our diversion
in the snow? There would have been nothing for it but to stay in this little closet of a room,
where there is scarce room for 6 people, and where it is not near so comfortable as the brown
house. Dear old b.h., shall I see it again soon? I shall not go farther than Charleston, and
Savannah probably, and then I hope I shall get another look at you all again before I commence
farther wanderings--O, stop! I didn't tell you why I was going to write you--well, I went on
Thursday to dine with Governor and Mrs. Fish, a dinner in honor of me--and before I went I
arrayed myself in a certain white garment of which the collar-button-holes had been altered,
and I thought of the kind, friendly little hand that had done that deed for me; and when the
Fisheses told me how they lived in the Second Avenue (I had forgotten all about 'em)--their
house and the house opposite came back to my mind, and I liked them 50 times better for living
near some friends of mine. She is a nice woman, Madam Fish, besides; and didn't I abuse you
all to her? Good bye, dear little Lucy--I wish the paper wasn't full. But I have been sitting
half an hour by the poor young lady's sofa, and talking stuff and nonsense, haven't I? And
now I get up, and shake your hand with a God bless you! and walk down stairs, and please to
give everybody my kindest regards, and remember that I am truly your friend.

W. M. T.

48. He was
     by no means long-lived: and for the last
     three-fifths--practically the whole busy time--of his life,
     he was one of the busiest of men. He wrote many universally
     known books, and not a few, in some cases not so well known,
     articles. He travelled a great deal; edited periodicals for
     many years, taking that duty by no means in the spirit of
     Olympian aloofness which some popular opinion connects with
     editorship; only sometimes shirked society; and had all
     sorts of miscellaneous occupations and avocations. His very
     fancy for long walks might seem one of the least compatible
     with letter-writing; yet a very large bulk of his letters
     (by no means mainly composed of editorial ones) has been
     published, and there are no doubt many unpublished. There
     have been different opinions as to their comparative rank as
     letters, but there can be no difference as to the curious
     full-bloodedness and plenitude of life which, in this as in
     all other divisions of his writing, characterises Dickens's
     expression of his thoughts and feelings. Perhaps, as might
     be generally though not universally expected, the comic ones
     are the more delightful: at any rate they seem best worth
     giving here. The first--to a schoolboy who had written to
     him about Nicholas Nickleby--is quite charming; the
     second, to the famous actor-manager who after being a
     Londoner by birth and residence for half a century had just
     retired, is almost Charles Lamb-like; and the third
     deserved to have been put in the original mouth of Mrs.
     Gamp![127]

49.

50. TO MR. W. C. MACREADY

Saturday, May 24th, 1851.

My dear Macready,

We are getting in a good heap of money for the Guild. The comedy has been very much improved,
in many respects, since you read it. The scene to which you refer is certainly one of the most
telling in the play. And there is a farce to be produced on Tuesday next, wherein a distinguished
amateur will sustain a variety of assumption-parts, and in particular, Samuel Weller and Mrs.
Gamp, of which I say no more. I am pining for Broadstairs, where the children are at present.
I lurk from the sun, during the best part of the day, in a villainous compound of darkness,
canvas, sawdust, general dust, stale gas (involving a vague smell of pepper), and disenchanted
properties. But I hope to get down on Wednesday or Thursday.

Ah! you country gentlemen, who live at home at ease, how little do you think of us among the
London fleas! But they tell me you are coming in for Dorsetshire. You must be very careful,
when you come to town to attend to your parliamentary duties, never to ask your way of people
in the streets. They will misdirect you for what the vulgar call "a lark," meaning, in this
connection, a jest at your expense. Always go into some respectable shop or apply to a policeman.
You will know him by his being dressed in blue, with very dull silver buttons, and by the top
of his hat being made of sticking-plaster. You may perhaps see in some odd place an intelligent-looking
man, with a curious little wooden table before him and three thimbles on it. He will want you
to bet, but don't do it. He really desires to cheat you. And don't buy at auctions where the
best plated goods are being knocked down for next to nothing. These, too, are delusions. If
you wish to go to the play to see real good acting (though a little more subdued than perfect
tragedy should be), I would recommend you to see ---- at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane. Anybody
will show it to you. It is near the Strand, and you may know it by seeing no company whatever
at any of the doors. Cab fares are eightpence a mile. A mile London measure is half a Dorsetshire
mile, recollect. Porter is twopence per pint; what is called stout is fourpence. The Zoological
Gardens are in the Regent's Park, and the price of admission is one shilling. Of the streets,
I would recommend you to see Regent Street and the Quadrant, Bond Street, Piccadilly, Oxford
Street, and Cheapside. I think these will please you after a time, though the tumult and bustle
will at first bewilder you. If I can serve you in any way, pray command me. And with my best
regards to your happy family, so remote from this Babel.

Believe me, my dear Friend,

Ever affectionately yours.

[CHARLES DICKENS]

P.S. I forgot to mention just now that the black equestrian figure you will see at Charing
Cross, as you go down to the House, is a statue of King Charles the First.[129]

51. TO MR. EDMUND YATES

TAVISTOCK HOUSE, Tuesday, Feb. 2nd. 1858.

My dear Yates,

Your quotation is, as I supposed, all wrong. The text is not "Which his 'owls was organs."
When Mr. Harris went into an empty dog-kennel, to spare his sensitive nature the anguish of
overhearing Mrs. Harris's exclamations on the occasion of the birth of her first child (the
Princess Royal of the Harris family), "he never took his hands away from his ears, or came
out once, till he was showed the baby." On encountering that spectacle, he was (being of a
weakly constitution) "took with fits." For this distressing complaint he was medically treated;
the doctor "collared him, and laid him on his back upon the airy stones"--please to observe
what follows--"and she was told, to ease her mind, his 'owls was organs."

That is to say, Mrs. Harris, lying exhausted on her bed, in the first sweet relief of freedom
from pain, merely covered with the counterpane, and not yet "put comfortable," hears a noise
apparently proceeding from the backyard, and says, in a flushed and hysterical manner: "What
'owls are those? Who is a-'owling? Not my ugebond?" Upon which the doctor, looking round one
of the bottom posts of the bed, and taking Mrs. Harris's pulse in a reassuring manner, says,
with much admirable presence of mind: "Howls, my dear madam?--no, no, no! What are we thinking
of? Howls, my dear Mrs. Harris? Ha, ha, ha! Organs, ma'am, organs. Organs in the streets, Mrs.
Harris; no howls."

Yours faithfully, [C. D.]

FOOTNOTES:

[127] One of the pleasantest, to me, of Dickens's letters is that in which, extravagant anti-Tory
as he was, he refuses to let a contributor echo the too common grudges at Lockhart (see inf.
under Stevenson). But it is very short, and perhaps of no general interest.

[128] Referring, I suppose, to the well-known and "inimitable" (but by no means indispensable)
flourish of his signature.

[129] "The comedy" is Bulwer-Lytton's Not so Bad as we Seem, acted by Dickens and other amateurs
for charity at Devonshire House seventy years ago, and about to be reproduced in loco as these
proofs are being revised.

CHARLES KINGSLEY (1819-1875)

     There are some people who, while thinking that the author of
     Westward Ho! has not, at least recently, been given his
     due rank in critical estimation, admit certain explanations
     of this. As a historian and in almost all his writings
     Kingsley was inaccurate,--almost (as his friend and
     brother-in-law Froude was once said to be) "congenitally
     inaccurate"; in his novels and elsewhere he went out of his
     way to tread on the corns of all sorts of people; he
     constantly ventured out of his depth in such subjects as
     philosophy and theology; and he suffered a terrible defeat
     by rashly engaging, and by tactical ineptitude, in his
     contest with Newman. His politics, in which matter at one
     time he engaged hotly, were those of a busier and more
     educated Colonel Newcome. His poems, which were his least
     unequal work, seem never to have attracted due notice.

     But none of his foibles--not even corn-treading--is a fatal
     defect in familiar letter-writing: consequently he has good
     chance here, and his Letters and Memoirs have been
     deservedly often reprinted. It is true that letters cannot
     show in full the really exceptional versatility which
     enabled the same man to write Yeast and Westward Ho!,
     Andromeda and The Water Babies, the best of the Essays
     and the best of the Sermons, Alton Locke and At Last.
     But they can and they do show it in part: and it gives them
     the interest which has been noticed in other cases. Indeed
     in one respect--as a writer--Kingsley is perhaps better in
     his letters than in his Essays, where he too often affects
     a Macaulayesque positiveness on rather inadequate grounds.
     The following specimen should show him in pleasantly varied
     character--as a thoroughly human person, a good sportsman,
     and what Matthew Arnold (by no means himself very liberal of
     praise to his literary contemporaries) thought him--"the
     most generous man [he had] ever known; the most forward to
     praise, the most willing to admire, the most free from all
     thought of himself in praising and admiring and the most
     incapable of being made ill-natured by having to support
     ill-natured attacks upon himself." It is to be feared that
     Mr. Arnold did not go far wrong when he declared, "Among men
     of letters I know nothing so rare as this."

     It is true that the author of Tom Brown's Schooldays was
     an intimate personal friend, and in politics and other
     things a close comrade of Kingsley's; but he was as generous
     to others, and while the scars of the battle with Newman
     were almost fresh, he writes that he has read The Dream of
     Gerontius "with admiration and awe." [Greek: thymos], in
     this sense = "spirit." "Jaques" = "Jack" = "Pike," while on
     the other side we get, through him of As You Like It, an
     explanation of "melancholies." And in fact the pike is not a
     cheerful-looking fish. Even two whom the present writer once
     saw tugging at the two ends of one dead trout in a shallow,
     did it sulkily.

52. TO TOM HUGHES, ESQ.

Jan. 12. 1857.

I have often been minded to write to you about 'Tom Brown.' I have puffed it everywhere I went,
but I soon found how true the adage is that good wine needs no bush, for every one had read
it already, and from every one, from the fine lady on her throne to the red-coat on his cock-horse
and the school-boy on his forrum (as our Irish brethren call it), I have heard but one word,
and that is, that it is the jolliest book they ever read. Among a knot of red-coats at the
cover-side, some very fast fellow said, 'If I had had such a book in my boyhood, I should have
been a better man now!' and more than one capped his sentiment frankly. Now isn't it a comfort
to your old bones to have written such a book, and a comfort to see that fellows are in a humour
to take it in? So far from finding men of our rank in a bad vein, or sighing over the times
and prospects of the rising generation, I can't help thinking they are very teachable, humble,
honest fellows, who want to know what's right, and if they don't go and do it, still think
the worst of themselves therefor. I remark now, that with hounds and in fast company, I never
hear an oath, and that, too, is a sign of self-restraint. Moreover, drinking is gone out, and,
good God, what a blessing! I have good hopes, of our class, and better than of the class below.
They are effeminate, and that makes them sensual. Pietists of all ages (George Fox, my dear
friend, among the worst) never made a greater mistake than in fancying that by keeping down
manly [Greek: thymos], which Plato saith is the root of all virtue, they could keep down sensuality.
They were dear good old fools. However, the day of 'Pietism' is gone, and 'Tom Brown' is a
heavy stone on its grave. 'Him no get up again after that,' as the niggers say of a buried
obi-man. I am trying to polish the poems: but Maurice's holidays make me idle; he has come
home healthier and jollier than ever he was in all his life, and is truly a noble boy. Sell
your last coat and buy a spoon. I have a spoon of huge size (Farlow his make). I killed forty
pounds weight of pike, &c., on it the other day, at Strathfieldsaye, to the astonishment and
delight of ----, who cut small jokes on 'a spoon at each end,' &c., but altered his tone when
he saw the melancholies coming ashore, one every ten minutes, and would try his own hand. I
have killed heaps of big pike round with it. I tried it in Lord Eversley's lakes on Monday,
when the fish wouldn't have even his fly. Capricious party is Jaques. Next day killed a seven
pounder at Hurst.... We had a pretty thing on Friday with Garth's, the first run I've seen
this year. Out of the Clay Vale below Tilney Hall, pace as good as could be, fields three acres
each, fences awful, then over Hazeley Heath to Bramshill, shoved him through a false cast,
and a streamer over Hartford Bridge flat, into an unlucky earth. Time fifty-five minutes, falls
plentiful, started thirty, and came in eight, and didn't the old mare go? Oh, Tom, she is a
comfort; even when a bank broke into a lane, and we tumbled down, she hops up again before
I'd time to fall off, and away like a four-year old. And if you can get a horse through that
clay vale, why then you can get him 'mostwards'; leastwise so I find, for a black region it
is, and if you ain't in the same field with the hounds, you don't know whether you are in the
same parish, what with hedges, and trees, and woods, and all supernumerary vegetations. Actually
I was pounded in a 'taty-garden,' so awful is the amount of green stuff in these parts. Come
and see me, and take the old mare out, and if you don't break her neck, she won't break yours.

JOHN RUSKIN (1819-1900)

     The peculiar wilfulness--the unkind called it
     wrong-headedness--which flecked and veined Mr. Ruskin's
     genius, had, owing to his wealth and to his entire
     indifference to any but his own opinion, opportunities of
     displaying itself in all his work, public as well as
     private, which are not common. Naturally, it showed itself
     nowhere more than in letters, and perhaps not unnaturally he
     often adopted the epistolary form in books which, had he
     chosen, might as well have taken another--while he might
     have chosen this in some which do not actually call
     themselves "letters." There is, however, little difference,
     except "fuller dress" of expression, between any of the
     classes of his work, whether it range from the first volume
     of Modern Painters to Verona in time, or from The Seven
     Lamps of Architecture to Unto This Last in subject. If
     anybody ever could "write beautifully about a broomstick" he
     could: though perhaps it is a pity that he so often did. But
     this faculty, and the entire absence of bashfulness which
     accompanied it, are no doubt grand accommodations for
     letter-writing; and the reader of Mr. Ruskin's letters gets
     the benefit of both very often--of a curious study of high
     character and great powers uncontrolled by logical
     self-criticism almost always. The following--part of a still
     longer letter which he addressed to the Daily Telegraph,
     Sep. 11, 1865, on the eternal Servant Question--was of
     course written for publication, but so, practically, was
     everything that ever came from its author. It so happens too
     that, putting aside his usual King Charles's Head of Demand
     and Supply, there is little in it of his more mischievous
     crotchets, nothing of the petulance (amounting occasionally
     to rudeness) of language in which he sometimes indulged, but
     much of his nobler idealism, while it is a capital example
     of his less florid style. "Launce," "Grumio" and "Old Adam"
     are of course Shakespeare's: "Fairservice" (of whom,
     tormenting and selfish as he was, Mr. Ruskin perhaps thought
     a little too harshly) and "Mattie," Scott's. "Latinity
     enough"--the unfortunate man had written, and the newspaper
     had printed, hoc instead of hac. "A book of Scripture,"
     Colenso's work had just been finished. "Charlotte Winsor" a
     baby-farmer of the day.

53. From "THE DAILY TELEGRAPH"

September 18, 1865.

DOMESTIC SERVANTS: SONSHIP AND SLAVERY.

To the Editor of "The Daily Telegraph."

Sir,

I have been watching the domestic correspondence in your columns with much interest, and thought
of offering you a short analysis of it when you saw good to bring it to a close, and perhaps
a note or two of my own experience, being somewhat conceited on the subject just now, because
I have a gardener who lets me keep old-fashioned plants in the greenhouse, understands that
my cherries are grown for the blackbirds, and sees me gather a bunch of my own grapes without
making a wry face. But your admirable article of yesterday causes me to abandon my purpose;
the more willingly, because among all the letters you have hitherto published there is not
one from any head of a household which contains a complaint worth notice. All the masters or
mistresses whose letters are thoughtful or well written say they get on well enough with their
servants; no part has yet been taken in the discussion by the heads of old families. The servants'
letters, hitherto, furnish the best data; but the better class of servants are also silent,
and must remain so. Launce, Grumio, or Fairservice may have something to say for themselves;
but you will hear nothing from Old Adam nor from Carefu' Mattie. One proverb from Sancho, if
we could get it, would settle the whole business for us; but his master and he are indeed "no
more." I would have walked down to Dulwich to hear what Sam Weller had to say; but the high-level
railway went through Mr. Pickwick's parlour two months ago, and it is of no use writing to
Sam, for, as you are well aware, he is no penman. And, indeed, Sir, little good will come of
any writing on the matter. "The cat will mew, the dog will have its day." You yourself, excellent
as is the greater part of what you have said, and to the point, speak but vainly when you talk
of "probing the evil to the bottom." This is no sore that can be probed, no sword nor bullet
wound. This is a plague spot. Small or great, it is in the significance of it, not in the depth,
that you have to measure it. It is essentially bottomless, cancerous; a putrescence through
the constitution of the people is indicated by this galled place. Because I know this thoroughly,
I say so little, and that little, as your correspondents think, who know nothing of me, and
as you say, who might have known more of me, unpractically. Pardon me, I am no seller of plasters,
nor of ounces of civet. The patient's sickness is his own fault, and only years of discipline
will work it out of him. That is the only really "practical" saying that can be uttered to him.

The relation of master and servant involves every other--touches every condition of moral health
through the State. Put that right, and you put all right; but you will find that it can only
come ultimately, not primarily, right; you cannot begin with it. Some of the evidence you have
got together is valuable, many pieces of partial advice very good. You need hardly, I think,
unless you wanted a type of British logic, have printed a letter in which the writer accused
(or would have accused, if he had possessed Latinity enough) all London servants of being thieves
because he had known one robbery to have been committed by a nice-looking girl. But on the
whole there is much common sense in the letters; the singular point in them all, to my mind,
being the inapprehension of the breadth and connection of the question, and the general resistance
to, and stubborn rejection of, the abstract ideas of sonship and slavery, which include whatever
is possible in wise treatment of servants. It is very strange to see that, while everybody
shrinks at abstract suggestions of there being possible error in a book of Scripture, your
sensible English housewife fearlessly rejects Solomon's opinion when it runs slightly counter
to her own, and that not one of your many correspondents seems ever to have read the Epistle
to Philemon. It is no less strange that while most English boys of ordinary position hammer
through their Horace at one time or other time of their school life, no word of his wit or
his teaching seems to remain by them: for all the good they get out of them, the Satires need
never have been written. The Roman gentleman's account of his childhood and of his domestic
life possesses no charm for them; and even men of education would sometimes start to be reminded
that his "noctes coenaeque Deum!" meant supping with his merry slaves on beans and bacon. Will
you allow me, on this general question of liberty and slavery, to refer your correspondents
to a paper of mine touching closely upon it, the leader in the Art-Journal for July last? and
to ask them also to meditate a little over the two beautiful epitaphs on Epictetus and Zosima,
quoted in the last paper of the Idler?

     "I, Epictetus, was a slave; and sick in body, and wretched
     in poverty; and beloved by the gods."

     "Zosima, who while she lived was a slave only in her body,
     has now found deliverance for that also."

How might we, over many an "independent" Englishman, reverse this last legend, and write--

     "This man, who while he lived was free only in his body, has
     now found captivity for that also."

I will not pass without notice--for it bears also on wide interests--your correspondent's question,
how my principles differ from the ordinary economist's view of supply and demand. Simply in
that the economy I have taught, in opposition to the popular view, is the science which not
merely ascertains the relations of existing demand and supply, but determines what ought to
be demanded and what can be supplied. A child demands the moon, and, the supply not being in
this case equal to the demand, is wisely accommodated with a rattle; a footpad demands your
purse, and is supplied according to the less or more rational economy of the State, with that
or a halter; a foolish nation, not able to get into its head that free trade does indeed mean
the removal of taxation from its imports, but not of supervision from them, demands unlimited
foreign beef, and is supplied with the cattle murrain and the like. There may be all manner
of demands, all manner of supplies. The true political economist regulates these; the false
political economist leaves them to be regulated by (not Divine) Providence. For, indeed, the
largest final demand anywhere reported of, is that of hell; and the supply of it (by the broad
gauge line) would be very nearly equal to the demand at this day, unless there were here and
there a swineherd or two who could keep his pigs out of sight of the lake.

Thus in this business of servants everything depends on what sort of servant you at heart wish
for or "demand." If for nurses you want Charlotte Winsors, they are to be had for money; but
by no means for money, such as that German girl who, the other day, on her own scarce-floating
fragment of wreck, saved the abandoned child of another woman, keeping it alive by the moisture
from her lips. What kind of servant do you want? It is a momentous question for you yourself--for
the nation itself. Are we to be a nation of shopkeepers, wanting only shop-boys: or of manufacturers,
wanting only hands: or are there to be knights among us, who will need squires--captains among
us, needing crews? Will you have clansmen for your candlesticks, or silver plate? Myrmidons
at your tents, ant-born, or only a mob on the Gillies' Hill? Are you resolved that you will
never have any but your inferiors to serve you, or shall Enid ever lay your trencher with tender
little thumb, and Cinderella sweep your hearth, and be cherished there? It might come to that
in time, and plate and hearth be the brighter; but if your servants are to be held your inferiors,
at least be sure they are so, and that you are indeed wiser, and better-tempered, and more
useful than they. Determine what their education ought to be, and organize proper servants'
schools, and there give it them. So they will be fit for their position, and will do honour
to it, and stay in it: let the masters be as sure they do honour to theirs, and are as willing
to stay in that. Remember that every people which gives itself to the pursuit of riches, invariably,
and of necessity, gets the scum uppermost in time, and is set by the genii, like the ugly bridegroom
in the Arabian Nights, at its own door with its heels in the air, showing its shoe-soles instead
of a Face. And the reversal is a serious matter, if reversal be even possible, and it comes
right end uppermost again, instead of to conclusive Wrong-end.

ROBERT LOUIS BALFOUR STEVENSON (1850-1894)

     The author of Treasure Island (invariably known to his
     friends simply as "Louis," the "Robert" being reserved in
     the form of "Bob" for his less famous but very admirable
     cousin the art-critic) will perhaps offer to some Matthew
     Arnold of posterity the opportunity of a paradox like that
     of our Matthew on Shelley. For a short time some of these
     friends--not perhaps the wisest of them--were inclined to
     regard him as, and to urge him to continue to be, a writer
     of criticisms and miscellaneous articles--a sort of new
     Hazlitt. Others no sooner saw the New Arabian Nights than
     they recognised a tale-teller such as had not been seen for
     a long time--such as, in respect of anything imitable, had
     never been seen before. And he fortunately fell in with
     these views and hopes. But all his tales are pure Romance,
     and Romance has her eclipses with the vulgar. On the other
     hand his letters are almost as good as his fiction, and not
     in the least open to the charges of a certain
     non-naturalness of style--even of thought--which could,
     justly or not, be brought against his other writings. And it
     is perhaps worth noting here that letters have held their
     popularity with all fit judges almost better than any other
     division of literature. Whether this is the effect of their
     "touches of nature" (using the famous phrase without the
     blunder so common in regard to it but not without reference
     to its context) need not be discussed.

     As, by the kindness of Mr. Lloyd Osbourne, I am enabled to
     give here an unpublished letter of Stevenson's to myself, it
     may require some explanation, not only of the commentatory
     and commendatory kind but of fact. Stevenson, coming to dine
     with me, had brought with him, and showed with much pride, a
     new umbrella (a seven-and-sixpenny one) which, to my
     surprise, he had bought. But when he went away that night he
     forgot it; and when I met him next day at the Savile and
     suggested that I should send it to him, there or somewhere,
     he said he was going abroad almost immediately and begged me
     to keep it for him. By this or that accident, but chiefly
     owing to his constant expatriations, no opportunity of
     restitution ever occurred: though I used to remind him of it
     as a standing joke, and treasured it religiously, stored and
     unused. This letter is partly in answer to a last reminder
     in which I said that I was going to present it to the
     nation, that it might be kept with King Koffee Kalcalli's,
     but as a memory of a "victor in romance" not of a vanquished
     enemy.

     I of course told Mr. Kipling of the contents which concerned
     him: and he, equally of course, demanded delivery of the
     goods at once. But, half in joke, I demurred, saying that I
     was a bailee, and the gift was not formal enough, being
     undated and only a "suggestion"; he should have it without
     fail at my death, or Stevenson's.[130]

     When alas! this latter came, I prepared to act up to my
     promise; but, alas! again, the umbrella had vanished! Some
     prated of mislaying in house-removal, of illicit use by
     servants, etc.; but for my part I had and have no doubt that
     the thing had been enskyed and constellated--like Ariadne's
     Crown, Berenice's Locks, Cassiopeia's Chair, and a whole
     galaxy of other now celestial objects--to afford a special
     place to my dead friend then, and to my live one when (may
     the time still be far distant) he is ready for it.

     As for the more serious subject of the letter, I must refer
     curious readers to an essay of mine on Lockhart, originally
     published in 1884 and reprinted in Essays in English
     Literature some years later. To this reprint I subjoined,
     before I got this letter from R. L. S., a reasoned defence
     of Lockhart from the charge of cowardice and "caddishness":
     but it is evident that Stevenson had not yet seen it. When
     he did see it, he wrote me another letter chiefly about my
     book itself, and so of no interest to the public, but
     touching again on this Lockhart question. He avowed himself
     still dissatisfied: but said he was sorry for his original
     remark which was "ungracious and unhandsome" if not untrue,
     adding, "for to whom do I owe more pleasure than to
     Lockhart?"

54.

My dear Saintsbury,

Thanks for yours. Why did I call Lockhart a cad? That calls for an answer, and I give it. "Scorpion"[131]
literature seems at the best no very fit employment for a man of genius, which Lockhart was--and
none at all for a gentleman. But if a man goes in for such a trade, he must be ready for the
consequences; and I do not conceive a gentleman as a coward; the white feather is not his crest,
it almost excludes--and I put the "almost" with reluctance. Well, now about the duel? Even
Bel-Ami[132] turned up on the terrain. But Lockhart? Et responsum est ab omnibus, Non est inventus.[133]
I have often wondered how Scott took that episode.[134] I do not know how this view will strike
you;[135] it seems to me the "good old honest" fashion of our fathers, though I own it does
not agree with the New Morality. "Cad" may be perhaps an expression too vivacious and not well
chosen; it is, at least upon my view, substantially just.

Now if you mean to comb my wig, comb it from the right parting--I know you will comb it well.

An infinitely small jest occurs to me in connection with the historic umbrella: and perhaps
its infinite smallness attracts me. Would you mind handing it to Rudyard Kipling with the enclosed
note?[136] It seems to me fitly to consecrate and commemorate this most absurd episode.

Yours very sincerely,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

[Enclosure]

                        This Umbrella
                purchased in the year 1878 by
                  Robert Louis Stevenson
(and faithfully stabled for more than twelve years in the
                halls of George Saintsbury)
  is now handed on at the suggestion of the first and
            by the loyal hands of the second,
                            to
                    Rudyard Kipling.

FOOTNOTES:

[130] Of this moratorium I believe I duly advised R. L. S. and I don't think he objected. There
was, if I remember rightly, a further reason for it--that I was living in two places at the
time and the subject was not immediately at hand.

[131] Lockhart's (self-given) name in the "Chaldee MS." was "the Scorpion that delighteth to
sting the faces of men."

[132] Maupassant's ineffable hero and title-giver.

[133] Hardly any school-boy of my or Stevenson's generation would have needed a reference to
the Essay on Murder. But I am told that De Quincey has gone out of fashion, with school-boys
and others.

[134] We know now: also what "The Duke" said when consulted. They did not agree with Stevenson,
but then they knew all the facts and he did not.

[135] I should have held it myself, if the facts had been what R. L. S. thought them.

[136] Which of course is Mr. Kipling's property, not mine. But he has most kindly joined in,
authorising its publication, and that of the rest of the letter as far as he is concerned.

BY THE SAME AUTHOR

The Peace of the Augustans

A Survey of Eighteenth Century Literature as a Place of Rest and Refreshment

Demy 8vo. 10s. 6d. net

     "No one living," according to the Times, "knows English
     eighteenth century literature as well as Mr. Saintsbury
     knows it.... If you do not know and like your eighteenth
     century, then he will make you; and if you do, he will show
     you that even what you thought the dullest parts are full of
     rest and refreshment."

     In the opinion of the Spectator, "Mr. Saintsbury in his
     new book has given to the world a singularly delightful
     gift. The Peace of the Augustans is in no sense written
     down. Yet every page is so subtly seasoned with amusing
     comment, and the whole book is so charmingly garnished that
     none but a dullard could fail to find delight in its
     perusal, however little he knew of the spirit which animated
     the eighteenth century. One can hardly imagine better
     reading after a day of hard or uncongenial work."

     "No bush is necessary to proclaim where good wine may be
     had," says the Glasgow Herald, "and no author's name was
     required to indicate the source of this always fresh and in
     some respects original treatment of the Augustan
     literature.... In literature there are many mansions, and
     Mr. Saintsbury is at home in them all.... A book it has been
     very pleasant and very profitable to read."

LONDON: G. BELL AND SONS, LTD. YORK HOUSE, PORTUGAL STREET, W.C. 2

Handbooks of English Literature

Edited by the late J. W. HALES, M.A.

Professor of English Literature, King's College, London

Small Crown 8vo. 5s. net each

     =THE AGE OF ALFRED= (664-1154). By F. J. SNELL, M.A.

