SKETCHES AND STUDIES IN ITALY AND GREECE

  BY JOHN ADDINGTON SYMONDS

  AUTHOR OF "RENAISSANCE IN ITALY", "STUDIES OF THE GREEK POETS," ETC

  FIRST SERIES

  NEW EDITION

  LONDON
  JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET, W.
  1914

PREFATORY NOTE

In preparing this new edition of the late J.A. Symonds's three volumes of travels, 'Sketches
in Italy and Greece,' 'Sketches and Studies in Italy,' and 'Italian Byways,' nothing has been
changed except the order of the Essays. For the convenience of travellers a topographical arrangement
has been adopted. This implied a new title to cover the contents of all three volumes, and
'Sketches and Studies in Italy and Greece' has been chosen as departing least from the author's
own phraseology.

HORATIO F. BROWN. Venice: June 1898.

  CONTENTS

  THE LOVE OF THE ALPS

  WINTER NIGHTS AT DAVOS

  BACCHUS IN GRAUBÜNDEN

  OLD TOWNS OF PROVENCE

  THE CORNICE

  AJACCIO

  MONTE GENEROSO

  LOMBARD VIGNETTES

  COMO AND IL MEDEGHINO

  BERGAMO AND BARTOLOMMEO COLLEONI

  CREMA AND THE CRUCIFIX

  CHERUBINO AT THE SCALA THEATRE

  A VENETIAN MEDLEY

  THE GONDOLIER'S WEDDING

  A CINQUE CENTO BRUTUS

  TWO DRAMATISTS OF THE LAST CENTURY

  SKETCHES AND STUDIES

  IN

  ITALY AND GREECE

THE LOVE OF THE ALPS[1]

Of all the joys in life, none is greater than the joy of arriving on the outskirts of Switzerland
at the end of a long dusty day's journey from Paris. The true epicure in refined pleasures
will never travel to Basle by night. He courts the heat of the sun and the monotony of French
plains,--their sluggish streams and never-ending poplar trees--for the sake of the evening
coolness and the gradual approach to the great Alps, which await him at the close of the day.
It is about Mulhausen that he begins to feel a change in the landscape. The fields broaden
into rolling downs, watered by clear and running streams; the green Swiss thistle grows by
riverside and cowshed; pines begin to tuft the slopes of gently rising hills; and now the sun
has set, the stars come out, first Hesper, then the troop of lesser lights; and he feels--yes,
indeed, there is now no mistake--the well-known, well-loved magical fresh air, that never fails
to blow from snowy mountains and meadows watered by perennial streams. The last hour is one
of exquisite enjoyment, and when he reaches Basle, he scarcely sleeps all night for hearing
the swift Rhine beneath the balconies, and knowing that the moon is shining on its waters,
through the town, beneath the bridges, between pasture-lands and copses, up the still mountain-girdled
valleys to the ice-caves where the water springs. There is nothing in all experience of travelling
like this. We may greet the Mediterranean at Marseilles with enthusiasm; on entering Rome by
the Porta del Popolo, we may reflect with pride that we have reached the goal of our pilgrimage,
and are at last among world-shaking memories. But neither Rome nor the Riviera wins our hearts
like Switzerland. We do not lie awake in London thinking of them; we do not long so intensely,
as the year comes round, to revisit them. Our affection is less a passion than that which we
cherish for Switzerland.

Why, then, is this? What, after all, is the love of the Alps, and when and where did it begin?
It is easier to ask these questions than to answer them. The classic nations hated mountains.
Greek and Roman poets talk of them with disgust and dread. Nothing could have been more depressing
to a courtier of Augustus than residence at Aosta, even though he found his theatres and triumphal
arches there. Wherever classical feeling has predominated, this has been the case. Cellini's
Memoirs, written in the height of pagan Renaissance, well express the aversion which a Florentine
or Roman felt for the inhospitable wildernesses of Switzerland.[2] Dryden, in his dedication
to 'The Indian Emperor,' says, 'High objects, it is true, attract the sight; but it looks up
with pain on craggy rocks and barren mountains, and continues not intent on any object which
is wanting in shades and green to entertain it.' Addison and Gray had no better epithets than
'rugged,' 'horrid,' and the like for Alpine landscape. The classic spirit was adverse to enthusiasm
for mere nature. Humanity was too prominent, and city life absorbed all interests,--not to
speak of what perhaps is the weightiest reason--that solitude, indifferent accommodation, and
imperfect means of travelling, rendered mountainous countries peculiarly disagreeable. It is
impossible to enjoy art or nature while suffering from fatigue and cold, dreading the attacks
of robbers, and wondering whether you will find food and shelter at the end of your day's journey.
Nor was it different in the Middle Ages. Then individuals had either no leisure from war or
strife with the elements, or else they devoted themselves to the salvation of their souls.
But when the ideas of the Middle Ages had decayed, when improved arts of life had freed men
from servile subjection to daily needs, when the bondage of religious tyranny had been thrown
off and political liberty allowed the full development of tastes and instincts, when, moreover,
the classical traditions had lost their power, and courts and coteries became too narrow for
the activity of man,--then suddenly it was discovered that Nature in herself possessed transcendent
charms. It may seem absurd to class them all together; yet there is no doubt that the French
Revolution, the criticism of the Bible, Pantheistic forms of religious feeling, landscape-painting,
Alpine travelling, and the poetry of Nature, are all signs of the same movement--of a new Renaissance.
Limitations of every sort have been shaken off during the last century; all forms have been
destroyed, all questions asked. The classical spirit loved to arrange, model, preserve traditions,
obey laws. We are intolerant of everything that is not simple, unbiassed by prescription, liberal
as the wind, and natural as the mountain crags. We go to feed this spirit of freedom among
the Alps. What the virgin forests of America are to the Americans, the Alps are to us. What
there is in these huge blocks and walls of granite crowned with ice that fascinates us, it
is hard to analyse. Why, seeing that we find them so attractive, they should have repelled
our ancestors of the fourth generation and all the world before them, is another mystery. We
cannot explain what rapport there is between our human souls and these inequalities in the
surface of the earth which we call Alps. Tennyson speaks of

  Some vague emotion of delight
  In gazing up an Alpine height,

and its vagueness eludes definition. The interest which physical science has created for natural
objects has something to do with it. Curiosity and the charm of novelty increase this interest.
No towns, no cultivated tracts of Europe however beautiful, form such a contrast to our London
life as Switzerland. Then there is the health and joy that comes from exercise in open air;
the senses freshened by good sleep; the blood quickened by a lighter and rarer atmosphere.
Our modes of life, the breaking down of class privileges, the extension of education, which
contribute to make the individual greater and society less, render the solitude of mountains
refreshing. Facilities of travelling and improved accommodation leave us free to enjoy the
natural beauty which we seek. Our minds, too, are prepared to sympathise with the inanimate
world; we have learned to look on the universe as a whole, and ourselves as a part of it, related
by close ties of friendship to all its other members Shelley's, Wordsworth's, Goethe's poetry
has taught us this; we are all more or less Pantheists, worshippers of 'God in Nature,' convinced
of the omnipresence of the informing mind.

Thus, when we admire the Alps, we are after all but children of the century. We follow its
inspiration blindly; and while we think ourselves spontaneous in our ecstasy, perform the part
for which we have been trained from childhood by the atmosphere in which we live. It is this
very unconsciousness and universality of the impulse we obey which makes it hard to analyse.
Contemporary history is difficult to write; to define the spirit of the age in which we live
is still more difficult; to account for 'impressions which owe all their force to their identity
with themselves' is most difficult of all. We must be content to feel, and not to analyse.

Rousseau has the credit of having invented the love of Nature. Perhaps he first expressed,
in literature, the pleasures of open life among the mountains, of walking tours, of the 'école
buissonnière,' away from courts, and schools, and cities, which it is the fashion now to love.
His bourgeois birth and tastes, his peculiar religious and social views, his intense self-engrossment,--all
favoured the development of Nature-worship. But Rousseau was not alone, nor yet creative, in
this instance. He was but one of the earliest to seize and express a new idea of growing humanity.
For those who seem to be the most original in their inauguration of periods are only such as
have been favourably placed by birth and education to imbibe the floating creeds of the whole
race. They resemble the first cases of an epidemic, which become the centres of infection and
propagate disease. At the time of Rousseau's greatness the French people were initiative. In
politics, in literature, in fashions, and in philosophy, they had for some time led the taste
of Europe. But the sentiment which first received a clear and powerful expression in the works
of Rousseau, soon declared itself in the arts and literature of other nations. Goethe, Wordsworth,
and the earlier landscape-painters, proved that Germany and England were not far behind the
French. In England this love of Nature for its own sake is indigenous, and has at all times
been peculiarly characteristic of our genius. Therefore it is not surprising that our life
and literature and art have been foremost in developing the sentiment of which we are speaking.
Our poets, painters, and prose writers gave the tone to European thought in this respect. Our
travellers in search of the adventurous and picturesque, our Alpine Club, have made of Switzerland
an English playground.

The greatest period in our history was but a foreshadowing of this. To return to Nature-worship
was but to reassume the habits of the Elizabethan age, altered indeed by all the changes of
religion, politics, society, and science which the last three centuries have wrought, yet still,
in its original love of free open life among the fields and woods, and on the sea, the same.
Now the French national genius is classical. It reverts to the age of Louis XIV., and Rousseauism
in their literature is as true an innovation and parenthesis as Pope-and-Drydenism was in ours.
As in the age of the Reformation, so in this, the German element of the modern character predominates.
During the two centuries from which we have emerged, the Latin element had the upper hand.
Our love of the Alps is a Gothic, a Teutonic, instinct; sympathetic with all that is vague,
infinite, and insubordinate to rules, at war with all that is defined and systematic in our
genius. This we may perceive in individuals as well as in the broader aspects of arts and literatures.
The classically minded man, the reader of Latin poets, the lover of brilliant conversation,
the frequenter of clubs and drawing-rooms, nice in his personal requirements, scrupulous in
his choice of words, averse to unnecessary physical exertion, preferring town to country life,
cannot deeply feel the charm of the Alps. Such a man will dislike German art, and however much
he may strive to be Catholic in his tastes, will find as he grows older that his liking for
Gothic architecture and modern painting diminish almost to aversion before an increasing admiration
for Greek peristyles and the Medicean Venus. If in respect of speculation all men are either
Platonists or Aristotelians, in respect of taste all men are either Greek or German.

At present the German, the indefinite, the natural, commands; the Greek, the finite, the cultivated,
is in abeyance. We who talk so much about the feeling of the Alps, are creatures, not creators
of our cultus,--a strange reflection, proving how much greater man is than men, the common
reason of the age in which we live than our own reasons, its constituents and subjects.

Perhaps it is our modern tendency to 'individualism' which makes the Alps so much to us. Society
is there reduced to a vanishing point--no claims are made on human sympathies--there is no
need to toil in yoke-service with our fellows. We may be alone, dream our own dreams, and sound
the depths of personality without the reproach of selfishness, without a restless wish to join
in action or money-making or the pursuit of fame. To habitual residents among the Alps this
absence of social duties and advantages may be barbarising, even brutalising. But to men wearied
with too much civilisation, and deafened by the noise of great cities, it is beyond measure
refreshing. Then, again, among the mountains history finds no place. The Alps have no past
nor present nor future. The human beings who live upon their sides are at odds with nature,
clinging on for bare existence to the soil, sheltering themselves beneath protecting rocks
from avalanches, damming up destructive streams, all but annihilated every spring. Man, who
is paramount in the plain, is nothing here. His arts and sciences, and dynasties, and modes
of life, and mighty works, and conquests and decays, demand our whole attention in Italy or
Egypt. But here the mountains, immemorially the same, which were, which are, and which are
to be, present a theatre on which the soul breathes freely and feels herself alone. Around
her on all sides is God, and Nature, who is here the face of God and not the slave of man.
The spirit of the world hath here not yet grown old. She is as young as on the first day; and
the Alps are a symbol of the self-creating, self-sufficing, self-enjoying universe which lives
for its own ends. For why do the slopes gleam with flowers, and the hillsides deck themselves
with grass, and the inaccessible ledges of black rock bear their tufts of crimson primroses
and flaunting tiger-lilies? Why, morning after morning, does the red dawn flush the pinnacles
of Monte Rosa above cloud and mist unheeded? Why does the torrent shout, the avalanche reply
in thunder to the music of the sun, the trees and rocks and meadows cry their 'Holy, Holy,
Holy'? Surely not for us. We are an accident here, and even the few men whose eyes are fixed
habitually upon these things are dead to them--the peasants do not even know the names of their
own flowers, and sigh with envy when you tell them of the plains of Lincolnshire or Russian
steppes.

But indeed there is something awful in the Alpine elevation above human things. We do not love
Switzerland merely because we associate its thought with recollections of holidays and joyfulness.
Some of the most solemn moments of life are spent high up above among the mountains, on the
barren tops of rocky passes, where the soul has seemed to hear in solitude a low controlling
voice. It is almost necessary for the development of our deepest affections that some sad and
sombre moments should be interchanged with hours of merriment and elasticity. It is this variety
in the woof of daily life which endears our home to us; and perhaps none have fully loved the
Alps who have not spent some days of meditation, or it may be of sorrow, among their solitudes.
Splendid scenery, like music, has the power to make 'of grief itself a fiery chariot for mounting
above the sources of grief,' to ennoble and refine our passions, and to teach us that our lives
are merely moments in the years of the eternal Being. There are many, perhaps, who, within
sight of some great scene among the Alps, upon the height of the Stelvio or the slopes of Mürren,
or at night in the valley of Courmayeur, have felt themselves raised above cares and doubts
and miseries by the mere recognition of unchangeable magnificence; have found a deep peace
in the sense of their own nothingness. It is not granted to us everyday to stand upon these
pinnacles of rest and faith above the world. But having once stood there, how can we forget
the station? How can we fail, amid the tumult of our common cares, to feel at times the hush
of that far-off tranquillity? When our life is most commonplace, when we are ill or weary in
city streets, we can remember the clouds upon the mountains we have seen, the sound of innumerable
waterfalls, and the scent of countless flowers. A photograph of Bisson's or of Braun's, the
name of some well-known valley, the picture of some Alpine plant, rouses the sacred hunger
in our souls, and stirs again the faith in beauty and in rest beyond ourselves which no man
can take from us. We owe a deep debt of gratitude to everything which enables us to rise above
depressing and enslaving circumstances, which brings us nearer in some way or other to what
is eternal in the universe, and which makes us know that, whether we live or die, suffer or
enjoy, life and gladness are still strong in the world. On this account, the proper attitude
of the soul among the Alps is one of silence. It is almost impossible without a kind of impiety
to frame in words the feelings they inspire. Yet there are some sayings, hallowed by long usage,
which throng the mind through a whole summer's day, and seem in harmony with its emotions--some
portions of the Psalms or lines of greatest poets, inarticulate hymns of Beethoven and Mendelssohn,
waifs and strays not always apposite, but linked by strong and subtle chains of feeling with
the grandeur of the mountains. This reverential feeling for the Alps is connected with the
Pantheistic form of our religious sentiments to which I have before alluded. It is a trite
remark, that even devout men of the present generation prefer temples not made with hands to
churches, and worship God in the fields more contentedly than in their pews. What Mr. Ruskin
calls 'the instinctive sense of the divine presence not formed into distinct belief' lies at
the root of our profound veneration for the nobler aspects of mountain scenery. This instinctive
sense has been very variously expressed by Goethe in Faust's celebrated confession of faith,
by Shelley in the stanzas of 'Adonais,' which begin 'He is made one with nature,' by Wordsworth
in the lines on Tintern Abbey, and lately by Mr. Roden Noel in his noble poems of Pantheism.
It is more or less strongly felt by all who have recognised the indubitable fact that religious
belief is undergoing a sure process of change from the dogmatic distinctness of the past to
some at present dimly descried creed of the future. Such periods of transition are of necessity
full of discomfort, doubt, and anxiety, vague, variable, and unsatisfying. The men in whose
spirits the fermentation of the change is felt, who have abandoned their old moorings, and
have not yet reached the haven for which they are steering, cannot but be indistinct and undecided
in their faith. The universe of which they form a part becomes important to them in its infinite
immensity. The principles of beauty, goodness, order and law, no longer connected in their
minds with definite articles of faith, find symbols in the outer world. They are glad to fly
at certain moments from mankind and its oppressive problems, for which religion no longer provides
a satisfactory solution, to Nature, where they vaguely localise the spirit that broods over
us controlling all our being. To such men Goethe's hymn is a form of faith, and born of such
a mood are the following far humbler verses:--

  At Mürren let the morning lead thee out
  To walk upon the cold and cloven hills,
  To hear the congregated mountains shout
  Their pæan of a thousand foaming rills.
  Raimented with intolerable light
  The snow-peaks stand above thee, row on row
  Arising, each a seraph in his might;
  An organ each of varied stop doth blow.
  Heaven's azure dome trembles through all her spheres,
  Feeling that music vibrate; and the sun
  Raises his tenor as he upward steers,
  And all the glory-coated mists that run
  Below him in the valley, hear his voice,
  And cry unto the dewy fields, Rejoice!

There is a profound sympathy between music and fine scenery: they both affect us in the same
way, stirring strong but undefined emotions, which express themselves in 'idle tears,' or evoking
thoughts 'which lie,' as Wordsworth says, 'too deep for tears,' beyond the reach of any words.
How little we know what multitudes of mingling reminiscences, held in solution by the mind,
and colouring its fancy with the iridescence of variable hues, go to make up the sentiments
which music or which mountains stir! It is the very vagueness, changefulness, and dreamlike
indistinctness of these feelings which cause their charm; they harmonise with the haziness
of our beliefs and seem to make our very doubts melodious. For this reason it is obvious that
unrestrained indulgence in the pleasures of music or of scenery may tend to destroy habits
of clear thinking, sentimentalise the mind, and render it more apt to entertain embryonic fancies
than to bring ideas to definite perfection.

If hours of thoughtfulness and seclusion are necessary to the development of a true love for
the Alps, it is no less essential to a right understanding of their beauty that we should pass
some wet and gloomy days among the mountains. The unclouded sunsets and sunrises which often
follow one another in September in the Alps, have something terrible. They produce a satiety
of splendour, and oppress the mind with a sense of perpetuity. I remember spending such a season
in one of the Oberland valleys, high up above the pine-trees, in a little châlet. Morning after
morning I awoke to see the sunbeams glittering on the Eiger and the Jungfrau; noon after noon
the snow-fields blazed beneath a steady fire; evening after evening they shone like beacons
in the red light of the setting sun. Then peak by peak they lost the glow; the soul passed
from them, and they stood pale yet weirdly garish against the darkened sky. The stars came
out, the moon shone, but not a cloud sailed over the untroubled heavens. Thus day after day
for several weeks there was no change, till I was seized with an overpowering horror of unbroken
calm. I left the valley for a time; and when I returned to it in wind and rain, I found that
the partial veiling of the mountain heights restored the charm which I had lost and made me
feel once more at home. The landscape takes a graver tone beneath the mist that hides the higher
peaks, and comes drifting, creeping, feeling, through the pines upon their slopes--white, silent,
blinding vapour-wreaths around the sable spires. Sometimes the cloud descends and blots out
everything. Again it lifts a little, showing cottages and distant Alps beneath its skirts.
Then it sweeps over the whole valley like a veil, just broken here and there above a lonely
châlet or a thread of distant dangling torrent foam. Sounds, too, beneath the mist are more
strange. The torrent seems to have a hoarser voice and grinds the stones more passionately
against its boulders. The cry of shepherds through the fog suggests the loneliness and danger
of the hills. The bleating of penned sheep or goats, and the tinkling of the cowbells, are
mysteriously distant and yet distinct in the dull dead air. Then, again, how immeasurably high
above our heads appear the domes and peaks of snow revealed through chasms in the drifting
cloud; how desolate the glaciers and the avalanches in gleams of light that struggle through
the mist! There is a leaden glare peculiar to clouds, which makes the snow and ice more lurid.
Not far from the house where I am writing, the avalanche that swept away the bridge last winter
is lying now, dripping away, dank and dirty, like a rotting whale. I can see it from my window,
green beech-boughs nodding over it, forlorn larches bending their tattered branches by its
side, splinters of broken pine protruding from its muddy caves, the boulders on its flank,
and the hoarse hungry torrent tossing up its tongues to lick the ragged edge of snow. Close
by, the meadows, spangled with yellow flowers and red and blue, look even more brilliant than
if the sun were shining on them. Every cup and blade of grass is drinking. But the scene changes;
the mist has turned into rain-clouds, and the steady rain drips down, incessant, blotting out
the view. Then, too, what a joy it is if the clouds break towards evening with a north wind,
and a rainbow in the valley gives promise of a bright to-morrow! We look up to the cliffs above
our heads, and see that they have just been powdered with the snow that is a sign of better
weather.

Such rainy days ought to be spent in places like Seelisberg and Mürren, at the edge of precipices,
in front of mountains, or above a lake. The cloud-masses crawl and tumble about the valleys
like a brood of dragons; now creeping along the ledges of the rock with sinuous self-adjustment
to its turns and twists; now launching out into the deep, repelled by battling winds, or driven
onward in a coil of twisted and contorted serpent curls. In the midst of summer these wet seasons
often end in a heavy fall of snow. You wake some morning to see the meadows which last night
were gay with July flowers huddled up in snow a foot in depth. But fair weather does not tarry
long to reappear. You put on your thickest boots and sally forth to find the great cups of
the gentians full of snow, and to watch the rising of the cloud-wreaths under the hot sun.
Bad dreams or sickly thoughts, dissipated by returning daylight or a friend's face, do not
fly away more rapidly and pleasantly than those swift glory-coated mists that lose themselves
we know not where in the blue depths of the sky.

In contrast with these rainy days nothing can be more perfect than clear moonlight nights.
There is a terrace upon the roof of the inn at Courmayeur where one may spend hours in the
silent watches, when all the world has gone to sleep beneath. The Mont Chétif and the Mont
de la Saxe form a gigantic portal not unworthy of the pile that lies beyond. For Mont Blanc
resembles a vast cathedral; its countless spires are scattered over a mass like that of the
Duomo at Milan, rising into one tower at the end. By night the glaciers glitter in the steady
moon; domes, pinnacles, and buttresses stand clear of clouds. Needles of every height and most
fantastic shapes rise from the central ridge, some solitary, like sharp arrows shot against
the sky, some clustering into sheaves. On every horn of snow and bank of grassy hill stars
sparkle, rising, setting, rolling round through the long silent night. Moonlight simplifies
and softens the landscape. Colours become scarcely distinguishable, and forms, deprived of
half their detail, gain in majesty and size. The mountains seem greater far by night than day--higher
heights and deeper depths, more snowy pyramids, more beetling crags, softer meadows, and darker
pines. The whole valley is hushed, but for the torrent and the chirping grasshopper and the
striking of the village clocks. The black tower and the houses of Courmayeur in the foreground
gleam beneath the moon until she reaches the edge of the Cramont, and then sinks quietly away,
once more to reappear among the pines, then finally to leave the valley dark beneath the shadow
of the mountain's bulk. Meanwhile the heights of snow still glitter in the steady light: they,
too, will soon be dark, until the dawn breaks, tinging them with rose.

But it is not fair to dwell exclusively upon the more sombre aspect of Swiss beauty when there
are so many lively scenes of which to speak. The sunlight and the freshness and the flowers
of Alpine meadows form more than half the charm of Switzerland. The other day we walked to
a pasture called the Col de Checruit, high up the valley of Courmayeur, where the spring was
still in its first freshness. Gradually we climbed, by dusty roads and through hot fields where
the grass had just been mown, beneath the fierce light of the morning sun. Not a breath of
air was stirring, and the heavy pines hung overhead upon their crags, as if to fence the gorge
from every wandering breeze. There is nothing more oppressive than these scorching sides of
narrow rifts, shut in by woods and precipices. But suddenly the valley broadened, the pines
and larches disappeared, and we found ourselves upon a wide green semicircle of the softest
meadows. Little rills of water went rushing through them, rippling over pebbles, rustling under
dock leaves, and eddying against their wooden barriers. Far and wide 'you scarce could see
the grass for flowers,' while on every side the tinkling of cow-bells, and the voices of shepherds
calling to one another from the Alps, or singing at their work, were borne across the fields.
As we climbed we came into still fresher pastures, where the snow had scarcely melted. There
the goats and cattle were collected, and the shepherds sat among them, fondling the kids and
calling them by name. When they called, the creatures came, expecting salt and bread. It was
pretty to see them lying near their masters, playing and butting at them with their horns,
or bleating for the sweet rye-bread. The women knitted stockings, laughing among themselves,
and singing all the while. As soon as we reached them, they gathered round to talk. An old
herdsman, who was clearly the patriarch of this Arcadia, asked us many questions in a slow
deliberate voice. We told him who we were, and tried to interest him in the cattle-plague,
which he appeared to regard as an evil very unreal and far away--like the murrain upon Pharaoh's
herds which one reads about in Exodus. But he was courteous and polite, doing the honours of
his pasture with simplicity and ease. He took us to his châlet and gave us bowls of pure cold
milk. It was a funny little wooden house, clean and dark. The sky peeped through its tiles,
and if shepherds were not in the habit of sleeping soundly all night long, they might count
the setting and rising stars without lifting their heads from the pillow. He told us how far
pleasanter they found the summer season than the long cold winter which they have to spend
in gloomy houses in Courmayeur. This, indeed, is the true pastoral life which poets have described--a
happy summer holiday among the flowers, well occupied with simple cares, and harassed by 'no
enemy but winter and rough weather.'

