John H. Wilson, the mayor of Honolulu, motored our party around the island and gave us a luncheon
at a hotel near one of the beaches. We will remember this day as one of our happiest.

Chapter III

The first day out of Honolulu we were all discussing our impressions. Most of us had passed
the Honolulu schools at recess time and had noted only one or two white-skinned children. It
was, as Dr. A. W. Morton expressed it, "Looks like a little Japan." Of course, everyone knows
of the vividness and great variety of the coloring of the foliage in sharp contrast to the
brilliant pink soil, but we could not stop talking about it. Some of us noted the beauty of
a little plant, which at home we carefully water and cherish in some tiny pot, only to learn
that on the Island it grows in such abundance that it is considered nearly as great a pest
as the Mediterranean fly - so it would seem that beauty in the vegetable kingdom does not always
mean desirability, any more than it does in the human family.

Many of us had been taken over the sugar-cane plantations, seen the young plants pushing through
the paper (put over them to keep out the weeds), gone through the refineries, seeing the cane
stalks ground in the huge rollers and had been allowed to taste the sickeningly sweet molasses.
Along the roads were Hawaiian huts with octopi drying on the porches, beside the reclining
figures of the strong providers of the family, resting up, no doubt, from the task of catching
and killing the octopi by hitting the squid's heads.

Some of the party waxed eloquent about the wonderful leprosy cures, recently accomplished in
the Islands, through the discoveries of the chemist Dr. Dean, who took the chalmoogra oil used
in India over a thousand years ago as a cure (but according to tradition, the sufferers considered
the cure worse than the disease) and made it possible to take.

Some of us stopped to investigate the powerful wireless station with the instruments capable
of receiving messages at a distance of 5000 miles. Still others told of the island at the Pearl
Harbor Naval station being purchased for ten thousand dollars and then being sold to our government
for 400,000 dollars.

Many had not only received the leis, but a new native name as well, for, as you know, it is
the Hawaiian way of labeling everyone with some name that to the Islander expresses their predominant
characteristic.

We were gazing at the magnificent sunset, when someone who seemed to have inside information,
repeated the old adage, "A red sky at night is the sailor's delight, but if followed by a red
sky in the morning, it's the sailor's warning." We had all found the tranquil waters of the
Pacific so refreshing after the rush and excitement of Honolulu sightseeing, and did not know
that the worst storm the Empire State had experienced was before us.

Most of us rolled out of bed the next morning, and the only reason some of us did not fall
to the floor was because the bureaus stopped us half way, with many a resounding thud. Many
of the party did not attempt to get up or out of the staterooms. Will we ever forget the dining
tables equipped with metal railings, divided into sections to hold in the dishes? Even then,
the eggs and cream rolled over the cloth or into our unreceptive laps, and the way the waiters
moistened the cloth in the spots where they set the water glasses in an attempt to make them
stay put. But they would not any more than our tummies would "stay put."

We then appreciated the necessity of the railings all over the ship, especially when we commenced
to hit each side of the passage way in trying to step forward. Edward C. Wagner was jestingly
remarking to Louis Glass that if he should fall, there would be broken "Glass." It was but
a short while afterward when an unexpected lurch of the ship threw him to the deck, breaking
his glasses.

We all remember that the deck chairs had an unpleasant way of sliding until they hit the opposite
wall, bouncing out the sea-sick occupants. Even in getting out of the chairs (tied to the railings)
many of us fell. The upper deck looked like the ward of an emergency hospital. Mrs. A. F. Morrison
had fallen, breaking a bone in her wrist, Mrs. E. Dinkelspiel had her head injured, Louis Glass
had a bandage over his cut face, and scarcely anyone escaped without black and blue marks.

To see one of our capitalists being led weakly by a strong attendant, while grasping his mal
de mer tin firmly, was a sight unnoticed, in the tumult of rushing waves. Of course, all portholes
were closed, two of the crew narrowly escaped being washed overboard. Their spotless uniform
of white had long since been discarded for rain coats and high boots. Some of us slept out
on deck rather than negotiate the treacherous stairs to the uncertain joys of a stateroom in
which the trunks had to be lashed to the walls to avoid painful contact (you see, many of us
had the vivid recollection of the crashes that woke us). In most cases the dainty bureau scarfs
upon which reposed the Cologne bottle, mirror, powder, hairpins, etc., etc., had dashed into
one conglomerate, broken mass on the floor.

M. A. Gale and Warren Shannon (usually the life of the party) were seen in dejected heaps,
with only half-closed eyes visible above the steamer robes.

Mrs. Carrie Schwabacher gathered about the piano those well enough to be about (after the storm
had been raging for two days and nights), playing old-fashioned songs, to try to raise the
drooping spirits.

Chanticleer never greeted the morning with gayer spirits than this party, when we saw the clouds
had rolled away, and when someone repeated, "On the road to Mandilay, where the flying fishes
play" (while we watched the flying fishes play), all the old familiar quotations took on a
new significance of realty.

Chapter IV

On  October 10, Dorothy Gee, the Chinese girl banker of San Francisco, presided over the ceremony
celebrating the tenth anniversary of the Chinese independence Day, held in the steerage. Besides
giving a clever address, she acted as interpreter for the speeches delivered by F. R. Eldridge,
chief of the Far Eastern Division for the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce, A. F. Morrison
and A. I. Esberg.

Many of us felt a great curiosity to see the engine that had pushed us through the storm, so
we descended countless iron stairs, down to the very bottom of the ship; above us towered a
bewildering assortment of ladders, levers, pipes and valves. The heat was over-powering, so
we rushed to the ventilator and cooled off quickly. The deafening noise prevented us from hearing
all the engineer's explanations. Next we were taken singly (as the space between the two massive
doors will not permit of more) through the two massive doors separating the boilers from the
rest of the ship. In case of an accident all the doors of the ship, including these, could
be automatically closed from the deck, dividing the ship into three compartments.

We saw how the thirty-seven cakes of ice, consumed daily, were made, inspected the laundry
and peeked in where the precious, rapidly diminishing liquors were stored, and we all felt
satisfied that we knew "What made the wheels go around."

With the regular meetings of the Executive committee, with Herbert Hoover's Trade Investigation
committee (consisting of Lansing Hoyt, C. J. Mayer, Gordon Enders, E. Kehich, Paul Steindorff
and headed by F. R. Eldridge), mingling with the party to assist in establishing friendly commercial
relationship; with all those identified with certain businesses and professions divided into
groups, and even with the women organized, we felt ready to meet any Oriental dignitaries,
or delegations.

We remember well how often Warren Shannon, with his unfailing humor, sent us into gales of
laughter, auctioning off the numbers that represented the possible run of the ship on the following
day. Louis Mooser bid the first one hundred dollars on the number that won the pool. C. H.
Matlage, William Muir, F. H. Speich, Louis Brown, Mrs. S. Schwartz and Mrs. Carrie Schwabacher
were also heavy bidders.

Everyone started borrowing clothes from everyone else, right after breakfast, the day of the
masquerade. P. J. Lyon made a very gay girl, C. R. Reed went as Woodrow Wilson, A. I. Esberg
as a Chinese, C. B. Lastrete as a bandit, Margarete Rice as Cleopatra, Mrs. Bruce Foulkes as
a beautiful Spanish senorita, Constant Meese, W. Levintritt, F. W. Boole and C. H. Matlage
as "Four Dainty Kewpies," Edward C. Wagner as an oiler, and Carl Westerfeld was a regular devil.

Of course, Mrs. A. Gee, Mrs. A. B. Luther, Mrs. Washburn, Mrs. Wheeler, Mrs. Boole, Mrs. Wood,
Mrs. Shannon and Mrs. Grady looked charming, as usual. The Misses Bridge, Miss Kinslow, Miss
Neff and Miss Bell also looked attractive. Dr. Gates, Dr. Judell, Miss Simon, Mrs. Rothenberg,
Mrs. Denson, Mrs. Dunn, Mrs. Yates, the Misses Hunter, Mrs. Barnard, Miss James, Mrs. Ross,
A. W. Morton, Jr., and Mrs. Krull went to such a lot of trouble to get up their interesting
costumes. Henry S. Bridge had, "a fine make-up" and looked like a real Southern Negro. Pretty
Miss Howlett and Miss Wood always made one think of the posters of "Sweet Sixteen."

Warren Shannon's Entertainment committee, assisted by Miss Moore, Miss Craig, Mrs. Bercovich
and Mrs. Panter, certainly discovered the talent on board and we will always be grateful for
the sweet singing of charming Mrs. Gale, Mrs. Brown, Mrs. Schwartz and Miss Reed and the playing
of Miss Moore, Mrs. Alexander and of our talented "Mary."

If anyone felt a bit out of sorts all they had to do was to think of the courage and sweet,
uncomplaining manner of Mrs. Morrison or what good sailors Mrs. Anna R. Luther and Miss Louise
Elliott were trying to be.

-

Columbus never strained his eyes more eagerly to see land than the San Francisco Chamber of
Commerce representatives did, when someone said that the dim outline of Fujiyama might be visible
above the hazy shore that looked as much like clouds as land.

All the men of the party were so busy with their field glasses, admiring Yokohoma Harbor's
wonderful fortifications, that they did not even hear the women question what sort of a dress
would be suitable for the coming grand reception, and yet, at the same time withstand sight-seeing
in the dust of the streets. Even Mary Garden on her opening night did not receive such rapt
attention as did this harbor.

As we looked down over the huge side of the Empire State upon the turmoil of humanity, baggage
and freight and the uneven street beyond, we gave thanks to the Baptist missionary, who is
credited with making an old baby carriage into the first rickshaw, for the convenience of his
sick wife. When we saw the little brown men actually run away with our most corpulent representatives,
without any apparent effort, we forgot all about "Man's inhumanity to man" and no baby ever
enjoyed its first perambulator outing more than our party.

First, we swooped down upon the banks to change our money, but the yen and sen counted out
to us seemed as valueless as stage money. However, we grew to respect it, after visiting Benton
Dori and departing with elaborate kimonos that the shrewd businessmen and women of the party
would have passed by as being too expensive, at home.

It was great fun after being extravagant to figure out that a yen is only a little over half
as much as one of our dollars and that one had only spent half as much as one thought.

Our party met the ladies (some of them American college graduates) and gentlemen of the Yokohama
Chamber of Commerce at a big reception in a theatre. The governor, through his interpreter,
said that our arrival was on the first sunny day they had had in some time, that the chrysanthemums
were just blooming, and that this was a good omen, for the war clouds had vanished. Geisha
girls danced while singing a specially composed chant of welcome, and an elaborate luncheon
was served in an adjoining hall. A. I. Esberg and F. R. Eldridge answered the welcome saying,
"That we hoped to establish much more friendly and permanent relationship with the people of
Japan."

Most of the party had the inevitable tea in the foreign settlement, known as the Bluff. Most
of these houses are of the vintage of fifty years ago and range in rental from $125 to $150,
unfurnished, the tenant having to install his own plumbing if he wishes such a luxury. We wanted
to know why some better arrangement was not made and were reminded of the law that does not
permit of any foreign ownership of land.

Louis Mooser, former head of the San Francisco Real Estate Board, was much interested in the
situation. It seems that about one-seventh of the small area available for foreigners was under
perpetual lease to the Germans and we were told that when war broke out it was taken over by
the Japanese, who only allowed their own race to buy, and all rents were immediately raised.

It was said that instead of complaining about how little land Japan was allowed in the United
States, it would be fairer to give Americans in Japan the same privileges that she enjoys in
some of our states.

Americans in Yokohoma say that the Japanese law drafted to relieve this situation and often
proudly referred to by Japanese diplomats, has never really been passed and therefore has no
value. They add that if old Marquis Okuma had more peace-craving followers and the lawmakers
were responsible to the people instead of the Emperor, for whom they are said to act, differences
between the United States and Japan could be more quickly and completely settled.

Chapter V

To board a train after our long sea-trip was a delightful change. After passing through quaint
villages, rice fields, and interesting garden patches we arrived at Tokyo in time for the ambassador's
reception. The moment one talks to Charles Warren, in charge of our American Embassy in Japan,
one feels that our Japanese problems are in very conservative and capable hands.

Between receptions, we visited many quaint and beautiful temples. At one we were so hospitably
received, served with tea and dainty rice cakes made with a special emblem upon them for the
occasion that we forgot to grumble about being made to remove our shoes. Only a few of the
party remembered the Japanese custom of removing the outer foot-gear, when entering their temples,
and came prepared with easily removed pumps. They had a good laugh at the row of dignified,
badge-bedecked representatives, solemnly lacing up their shoes, while sitting on the stoop
about a foot from the ground, with the blazing sun upon them.

When we talked to some of the American residents in Japan, they all got on the old familiar
subject, the high cost of living, but they seem to agree that it cost just twice as much to
live in Japan as any other place in the world. It seems that without considering the high rent,
an amah (a sort of maid who will do only certain duties), a house boy (who is anywhere from
twelve to sixty years old), and a cook (who gets a commission on everything you buy) must be
kept, even in the simplest of homes. Those accustomed to one servant in America usually find
it necessary to have from three to six in Japan. Of course their wages are less than in the
United States, but food is very high. Rice, for instance, was twenty percent higher than in
America. Inferior coal was twenty-two fifty a ton, and the high ceilinged, furnace less houses
require a great deal of coal and wood in winter. Very few Americans use the jammed street cars.
Automobiles are very expensive to maintain, not only on account of the rough streets, but the
licenses are very high. One of our party hired a rick-shaw for twenty minutes and paid a yen
(about fifty cents), so residents usually find it more economical to keep their own rick-shaws
and coolies.

Certainly the Japanese are past masters in entertaining. No wonder it is said that some of
our former diplomats were so much influenced by their lavish entertainment's that they lost
their heads. The Chamber of Commerce of Tokyo greeted our Chamber of Commerce representatives
at an elaborate theatre party. An especially staged Japanese drama, followed by a comedy, with
a sumptuous dinner between the acts, was only a part of the entertainment. A. I. Esberg and
Byron Mauzy answered the banzis, of the oldest merchant in Japan, Baron Okura, with three rousing
cheers for the Japanese, after the formal addresses had been made.

Everywhere we were met with politeness and courtesy. To the casual observer the military element
is not noticeable in the home life of the common people, as they are rapt in their work, very
industrious and get their pleasure talking to their ever present babies, or tending some little
plants, even if squalor surrounds them. But the word of the ones higher up is absolute law
to them. Discipline is supreme from the time the small boy is taught the "Goose Step," preparatory
to his military training, until he obediently marries the girl his parents have selected for
him. He does what he is told without a murmur, as does his wife who is his absolute slave.

One understands why some call Japan the Germany of the East, which country, some of our delegates
were told by foreign residents, Japan greatly admires. It is said that her people were more
than surprised and disappointed when the armistice was signed; as the Japanese press was so
well censored it gave no indication that Germany could be defeated.

After a day of sight-seeing, and investigating various trade conditions, our party found the
rickshaw ride back to the hotel, at dusk, most interesting and quite exciting, if one has not
become accustomed to the rule of turning to the left instead of the right, as we do at home.
Packed street cars, automobiles, carts piled high with incredible loads pulled by coolies,
a girder being dragged by a scrawny horse led by a seemingly tireless, whip-equipped native,
all apparently were about to collide with our rick-shaw party. We seemed to be always in the
way and always on the wrong side of the street. We remembered with a shudder, that the Japanese
believe it noble to die, and seemingly, they were going to drag us to destruction with them.
We tried to get them to go slower but could not think of the Japanese words, so we might just
as well have tried to stop the North wind, as to have changed the orders given by our interpreter
to the coolies.

Chapter VI

We did not know that when we boarded the special train chartered by the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce
to take the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce representatives to inspect the silk filatures,
that a delightful luncheon, or as it is called there, "Tiffin," was awaiting us under the trees.

Although the heat was oppressive, it was surprising to see how ceaselessly, and apparently
without pain, little girls from twelve years up, kept five cocoons unrolling at once, in boiling
water, in order to make a single thread of silk. We were told that these girls worked from
twelve to fourteen hours a day, for which they receive forty cents a day and food, getting
a bonus at the end of the year, which amounts to approximately one months' salary. Sundays
are not holidays in Japan, but workers have two days off a month.

We saw the whole process, from the sorting of the yellow and white cocoons to the huge bolts
ready for the market, while one of our smiling hosts significantly remarked, "The yellow and
white blend very nicely together."

We were interested in learning that the principal owner of this huge plant has adopted his
wife's family name in order to follow the custom of not allowing a family name to die out,
in case there are no sons and none have been adopted.

As over one-third of Japan's trade is with the United States, and a large portion of that is
in silk, our clever hosts had printed on the cover of the booklet presented to us, "Silk is
the shining cord that binds United States and Japan."

The San Francisco Chamber of Commerce representatives had been given the year book of Japan,
all sorts of pamphlets containing figures and facts concerning various enterprises, and so
a day at Nikko, away from statistics, was most welcome.

Nikko's sacred grove of Cryptomerie trees said to be over three hundred years old, never looked
more impressive than in the first rain we had had while in Japan. One of the party who had
traveled extensively in the Orient previously, advised us to forget our trade commercial mission
long enough to see Nikko and then we could afford to overlook all the other temples. Certainly
nature and man's art achieved a double triumph here, and this advice must have piqued the curiosity
of most of the stolid businessmen of the party; for yellow strips of rubber and paper umbrellas
were rented, and in spite of the downpour, the great stairs were mounted. Even comfy shoes
were parted with in order to tread upon the cold marble floors of the ancient temples. We now
know, shoes have to be checked with umbrellas at the outer doors in Japan.

We were not the only ones seeing Nikko at eight A. M. in the storm. Besides the groups of soldiers
and the crowds of pilgrims from all over Japan, there was the ceaseless click-click of the
wooden shoes of thousands of children on the stone steps.

When we left the cozy dining-room of the hotel with its charming outlook upon a mossy bank,
where quaint shrubs were flourishing, we felt quite proud of ourselves for braving the weather,
until we asked our guide why so many children were there that day. He said, "You see, it is
such a fine day for an excursion, not too hot or cold, no one notices the rain."

On the way to the train we saw a queer old pawn shop, filled with wonderful antiques. Some
of the party claim that the shop was bought out, so some of our San Francisco relatives will
get an inkling from this where Santa Claus may have gotten some of their Christmas presents.

Most of us did not mind being scolded for over-paying our sweating rick-shaw coolies, but we
all felt rather uncomfortable when we were told that we should never have paid the first price
asked in any of the shops, and that our prize purchases could probably have been bought for
half the price by a clever bargainer.

-

In a corner of the car, that was taking the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce party to Kyoto,
the heart of Japan, sat a little Japanese girl in true Buddha style with her little toes crossed,
filling her pipe from her purse and taking the usual three puffs (that is about all these pipes
hold). She looked about fifteen, but must have been nineteen, because, in Japan no one is allowed
to smoke until that age has been attained, and no native would think of breaking a rule.

We arrived in time for the Jidai Festival, which is held only once a year. We saw a procession
showing all the phantastic costumes worn by the old-time tribal warriors, and it proved so
interesting that we decided not to mourn the fact that the cherry blossom celebration was out
of season. We felt much better, too, when we were reminded that all the pilgrims, coming to
feast their eyes, never get a taste of the luscious fruit, the Japanese cherries being uneatable.

We were told that all prices were raised by the storekeepers when any convention arrived in
town. Some of us successfully resisted purchasing cloissone, and satsuma ware, although we
saw it being made and were served with tea and coaxed to buy - "Justa leetle souvenir." But
the kimonos were too much for Mrs. Carrie Schwabacher and Louis Mooser, who, in spite of the
fact that Mrs. Rockefeller was in Kyoto bidding on some of the same garments (which of course
raised the prices even higher) carried away the prettiest garments in the shops.

Our party could not help noticing, how much the Japanese people, even of the lowest class,
appreciate their temples and statues.

One of the party asked if anyone knew a person in San Francisco, with the possible exception
of some scholarly teacher, who could describe even imperfectly the statues in Golden Gate Park.
Here the Japanese journey miles to see a statue. The old scholars always preached the potency
of something half concealed to stimulate the imagination, but it took a Japanese sage to conceive
the idea of building a fine statue of a favorite war hero and then to bury it. And now thousands
come to Kyoto to the very spot where the statue is buried, imagining its proportions, and praying
for strength and success in their encounters.

We were told that the belief that the Emperor is a God-like being is strengthened by the fact
that he is never seen and therefore his people's glorified imagery of him is never shattered.
We were told that the Emperor is seen only by a carefully selected group twice a year, once
at the Cherry Blossom season and once at the Chrysanthemum Festival, and if it rains on these
days the reception is put off for another year.

Why, the mystery of the Orient was even found in our menus, and it did not take long for the
Pandoras of our party to find out that "Bubble and Squeak" was good old ham and eggs and "Angels
under Cover" were oysters wrapped in bacon.

After official business was over for the day, the party "did" Theatre Street, where our own
movie queens reigned beside some poster depicting a Japanese soldier fighting a dragon. Byron
Mauzy told us that our jazz music is often called for and that pianos with a specially made
case to withstand the dampness, were in demand.

Our party found out why someone said, "There is as much red-tape necessary to go through a
Japanese palace as there is to get married," for we faced the grim-armed soldiers at the outer
gates, but were not allowed to enter until our credentials had been carefully inspected. Then
we were permitted to go into a small outer room where we wrote our names, addresses, etc.,
in a large book. After a scrutiny of this and a long wait, giving them sufficient time to telephone
and see if our passes were authentic, we were formally escorted through beautifully carved
portals, past endless, handsomely decorated, empty rooms, over the squeaky door sill (that
is supposed to warn the inmates of someone's approach) and finally to the canopied gold-mounted
throne itself.

We began to feel a little easier, when we got out in the sun of the garden, but even there
we felt formal, for in these sacred gardens no gay flower or dashing stream is permitted. Nature,
too, must be subdued, and even the little trickle of water circling the buildings, was there
for the sole purpose of suggesting purity, we were informed.

After the reception and investigation tour of Kobe, forty of the party boarded a train for
Peking, under the direction of Hoover's representative, F. R. Eldridge.

We had enjoyed Fujiyama by moonlight, but did not know that we were also to glide by the Inland
Sea at sunset. Korea's roads, built of course, by the Japanese soldiers, and the guarded stations
of Manchuria, were of much interest to the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce investigators.

Every evening impromptu speeches on conditions were held in the dining car. M. A. Gale, Henry
S. Bridge, and Louis Mooser also vied with each other telling funny stories, Carl Westerfeld
contributing to the entertainment by organizing a group of the party into "The South Manchurian
Quartet." Dave and Resse Lewellyn started to sing "Annie Rooney" and "Mother McCree" whenever
things were too quiet.

We stopped long enough at Seoul, Korea, to talk to representatives of trade and commerce and
to chat with the "Grand Old Man of Korea," before arriving in Peking.

Chapter VII

Our stay in three-thousand year-old Peking was too short, for besides investigating conditions,
attending our Minister Shurman's reception, visiting the country home of the former Prime Minister
Hsuing Hsi-Ling, we would have enjoyed spending more time seeing The Summer Palace, The Jade
Fountain and the Temple of Heaven to say nothing of studying conditions.

About one-thirty, when the gay dance had ended at Hotel de Peking, which by the way, would
be a credit to London or New York, we took an hour's rickshaw ride in the moonlight to the
Forbidden City. The solemn pom-pom-pom of the funeral dirge for the Mother of the heir to the
Chinese Throne, was indescribably impressive. About eighty men bore the casket from the dwelling
to its canopied hearse. One of the mourner's told us that the fourteen-year-old heir to the
throne, had not cared much, when all his playthings were taken from him, or even when his throne
was taken, but that now he was inconsolable over the loss of his mother.

After seeing this weird funeral procession of the last of the Ming Dynasty in the gray of early
dawn, seeing a Buddha with eyes of pure gold, and also riding the Hodzu rapids, it took an
aeroplane ride to create any real excitement in our party.

Six of the Chamber of Commerce Representatives decided to see the Great Wall of China and the
Ming Tombs, regardless of the lack of time; so Carl Westerfeld, Mrs. Bruce Foulkes, David and
Reese Lewellyn, Miss Mary Moynihan and M. Hazlett, Jr., chartered a Vickers Vimmy Biplane.
The air-riders felt much less perturbation after being informed that this machine cost the
Chinese government fifty thousand dollars, weighed over five tons, and had comfortable wicker
seats in a pretty little cabin for nine people. They were so proud to accomplish in an hour
and a half, a trip which usually takes two days, that we will tell some of them that they have
not come down to earth yet, if they keep on telling us what we missed by not going.

We had no sooner gotten accustomed to the Japanese money and were able to say, "Ohio," (good-morning),
and a few other Japanese words glibly, when we had to learn "Pidgin English" and use the "Mex"
dollar in China, and next we were told to exchange our money from Peking notes to Shanghai
currency.

The approach to Shanghai, the Paris of the East, along its beautiful row of buildings on the
waterfront, and called The Bund, surprised even the muchly thrilled Chamber of Commerce Party.

The American Consul, C. T. Cunningham, was very ill, but his wife gave us a reception. A dinner
by the Chinese Chamber of Commerce and an examination of trade exhibits followed.

The six physicians of the party received their biggest surprise at the Chinese Theatre when,
in the middle of the performance, a large towel that had evidently been dipped in warm water,
was passed around to the audience so that the theatre-goers might wipe off the perspiration
or beads of excitement from their faces and hands. The towel was a rich shade of brown by the
time it reached our party. Germs? Why they never thought of such a thing and seem to feel,
"Where ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise."

