"Oh, mortally! I said everything I possibly could to offend him. But then he would have been
here still had I not done so. There was no other way to get rid of him,--or indeed to make
him believe that I was in earnest."

"I am sorry that you should have been so ungracious."

"Of course I am ungracious. But how can you stand bandying compliments with a man when it is
your object to make him know the very truth that is in you? It was your fault, papa. You ought
to have understood how very impossible it is that I should marry Mr. Barry."

CHAPTER LIII.

THE BEGINNING OF THE LAST PLOT.

When Mr. Scarborough had written the check and sent it to Mr. Grey, he did not utter another
word on the subject of gambling. "Let us make another beginning," he said, as he told his son
to make out another check for sixty pounds as his first instalment of the allowance.

"I do not like to take it," said the son.

"I don't think you need be scrupulous now with me." That was early in the morning, at their
first interview, about ten o'clock. Later on in the day Mr. Scarborough saw his son again,
and on this occasion kept him in the room some time. "I don't suppose I shall last much longer
now," he said.

"Your voice is as strong as I ever heard it."

"But unfortunately my body does not keep pace with my voice. From what Merton says, I don't
suppose there is above a month left."

"I don't see why Merton is to know."

"Merton is a good fellow; and if you can do anything for him, do it for my sake."

"I will." Then he added, after a pause, "If things go as we expect, Augustus can do more for
him than I. Why don't you leave him a sum of money?"

Then Miss Scarborough came into the room, and hovered about her brother, and fed him, and entreated
him to be silent; but when she had gone he went back to the subject. "I will tell you why,
Mountjoy. I have not wished to load my will with other considerations,--so that it might be
seen that solicitude for you has been in my last moments my only thought. Of course I have
done you a deep injury."

"I think you have."

"And because you tell me so I like you all the better. As for Augustus--But I will not burden
my spirit now, at the last, with uttering curses against my own son."

"He is not worth it."

"No, he is not worth it. What a fool he has been not to have understood me better! Now, you
are not half as clever a fellow as he is."

"I dare say not."

"You never read a book, I suppose?"

"I don't pretend to read them, which he does."

"I don't know anything about that;--but he has been utterly unable to read me. I have poured
out my money with open hands for both of you."

"That is true, sir, certainly, as regards me."

"And have thought nothing of it. Till it was quite hopeless with you I went on, and would have
gone on. As things were then, I was bound to do something to save the property."

"These poor devils have put themselves out of the running now," said Mountjoy.

"Yes; Augustus with his suspicions has enabled us to do that. After all, he was quite right
with his suspicions."

"What do you mean by that, sir?"

"Well, it was natural enough that he should not trust me. I think, too, that perhaps he saw
a screw loose where old Grey did not; but he was such an ass that he could not bring himself
to keep on good terms with me for the few months that were left. And then he brought that brute
Jones down here, without saying a word to me as to asking my leave. And here he used to remain,
hardly ever coming to see me, but waiting for my death from day to day. He is a cold-blooded,
selfish brute. He certainly takes after neither his father nor his mother. But he will find
yet, perhaps, that I am even with him before all is over."

"I shall try it on with him, sir. I have told you so from the beginning; and now if I have
this money it will give me the means of doing so. You ought to know for what purpose I shall
use it."

"That is all settled," said the father. "The document, properly completed, has gone back with
the clerk. Were I to die this minute you would find that everything inside the house is your
own,--and everything outside except the bare acres. There is a lot of plate with the banker
which I have not wanted of late years. And there are a lot of trinkets too,--things which I
used to fancy, though I have not cared so much about them lately. And there are a few pictures
which are worth money. But the books are the most valuable; only you do not care for them."

"I shall not have a house to put them in."

"There is no saying. What an idiot, what a fool, what a blind, unthinking ass Augustus has been!"

"Do you regret it, sir,--that he should not have them and the house too?"

"I regret that my son should have been such a fool! I did not expect that he should love me.
I did not even want him to be kind to me. Had he remained away and been silent, that would
have been sufficient. But he came here to enjoy himself, as he looked about the park which
he thought to be his own, and insulted me because I would not die at once and leave him in
possession. And then he was fool enough to make way for you again, and did not perceive that
by getting rid of your creditors he once again put you into a position to be his rival. I don't
know whether I hate him most for the hardness of his heart, or despise him for the slowness
of his intellect."

During the time that these words had been spoken Miss Scarborough had once or twice come into
the room, and besought her brother to take some refreshment which she offered him, and then
give himself up to rest. But he had refused to be guided by her till he had come to a point
in the conversation at which he had found himself thoroughly exhausted. Now she came for the
third time, and that period had arrived, so that Mountjoy was told to go about his business,
and shoot birds or hunt foxes, in accordance with his natural proclivities. It was then three
o'clock on a gloomy December afternoon, and was too late for the shooting of birds; and as
for the hunting of foxes, the hounds were not in the neighborhood. So he resolved to go through
the house, and look at all those properties which were so soon to become his own. And he at
once strolled into the library. This was a long, gloomy room, which contained perhaps ten thousand
volumes, the greater number of which had, in the days of Mountjoy's early youth, been brought
together by his own father; and they had been bound in the bindings of modern times, so that
the shelves were bright, although the room itself was gloomy. He took out book after book,
and told himself, with something of sadness in his heart, that they were all "caviare" to him.
Then he reminded himself that he was not yet thirty years of age, and that there was surely
time enough left for him to make them his companions.

He took one at random, and found it to be a volume of Clarendon's "History of the Rebellion."
He pitched upon a sentence in which he counted that there were sixteen lines, and when he began
to read it, it became to him utterly confused and unintelligible. So he put it back, and went
to another portion of the room and took down Wittier's "Hallelujah;" and of this he could make
neither head nor tail. He was informed, by a heading in the book itself, that a piece of poetry
was to be sung "as the ten commandments." He could not do that, and put the book back again,
and declared to himself that farther search would be useless. He looked round the room and
tried to price the books, and told himself that three or four days at the club might see an
end of it all. Then he wandered on into the state drawing-room,--an apartment which he had
not entered for years,--and found that all the furniture was carefully covered. Of what use
could it all be to him,--unless that it, too, might be sent to the melting-pot and brought
into some short-lived use at the club?

But as he was about to leave the room he stood for a moment on the rug before the fireplace
and looked into the huge mirror which stood there. If the walls might be his, as well as the
garnishing of them, and if Florence Mountjoy could come and reign there, then he fancied that
they all might be put to a better purpose than that of which he had thought. In earlier days,
two or three years ago, at a time which now seemed to him to be very distant, he had regarded
Florence as his own, and as such had demanded her hand. In the pride of his birth, and position,
and fashion, he had had no thought of her feelings, and had been imperious. He told himself
that it had been so with much self-condemnation. At any rate, he had learned, during those
months of solitary wandering, the power of condemning himself. And now he told him that if
she would yet come he might still learn to sing that song of the old-fashioned poet "as to
the ten commandments." At any rate, he would endeavor to sing it, as she bade him.

He went on through all the bedrooms, remembering, but hardly more than remembering, them as
he entered them. "Oh, Florence,--my Florence!" he said, as he passed on. He had done it all
for himself,--brought down upon his own head this infinite ruin,--and for what? He had scarcely
ever won, and Tretton was gone from him forever. But still there might yet be a chance if he
could abstain from gambling.

And then, when it was dusk within the house, he went out, and passed through the stables and
roamed about the gardens till the evening had altogether set in, and black night had come upon
him. Two years ago he had known that he was the heir to it all, though even then that habit
was so strong upon him he had felt that his tenure of it would be but slight. But he had then
always to tell himself that when his marriage had taken place a great change would be effected.
His marriage had not taken place, and the next fatal year had fallen upon him. As long as the
inheritance of the estate was certainly his, he could assuredly raise money,--at a certain
cost. It was well known that the property was rising in value, and the money had always been
forthcoming,--at a tremendous sacrifice. He had excused to himself his recklessness on the
ground of his delayed marriage, but still always treating her, on the few occasions on which
they had met, with an imperiousness which had been natural to him. Then the final crash had
come, and the estate was as good as gone. But the crash, which had been in truth final, had
come afterward, almost as soon as his father had learned what was to be the fate of Tretton;
and he had found himself to be a bastard with a dishonored mother,--just a nobody in the eyes
of the world. And he learned at the same time that Harry Annesley was the lover whom Florence
Mountjoy really loved. What had followed has been told already,--perhaps too often.

But at this moment, as he stood in the gloom of the night, below the porch in the front of
the house, swinging his stick at the top of the big steps, an acknowledgment of contrition
was very heavy upon him.

Though he was prepared to go to law the moment that Augustus put himself forward as the eldest
son, he did recognize how long-suffering his father had been, and how much had been done for
him in order, if possible, to preserve him. And he knew, whatever might be the result of his
lawsuit, that his father's only purpose had been to save the property for one of them. As it
was, legacies which might be valued at perhaps thirty thousand pounds would be his. He would
expend it all on the lawsuit, if he could find lawyers to undertake his suit. His anger, too,
against his brother was quite as hot as was that of his father. When he had been obliterated
and obliged to vanish, from the joint effects of his violence in the streets and his inability
to pay his gambling debts at the club, he had, in an evil moment, submitted himself to Augustus;
and from that hour Augustus had become to him the most cruel of tyrants. And this tyranny had
come to an end with his absolute banishment from his brother's house. Though he had been subdued
to obedience in the lowest moment of his fall, he was not the man who could bear such tyranny
well. "I can forgive my father," he said, "but Augustus I will never forgive." Then he went
into the house, and in a short time was sitting at dinner with Merton, the young doctor and
secretary. Miss Scarborough seldom came to table at that hour, but remained in a room up-stairs,
close to her brother, so that she might be within call should she be wanted. "Upon the whole,
Merton," he said, "what do you think of my father?" The doctor shrugged his shoulders. "Will
he live or will he die?"

"He will die, certainly."

"Do not joke with me. But I know you would not joke on such a subject. And my question did
not merely go to the state of his health. What do you think of him as a man generally? Do you
call him an honest man?"

"How am I to answer you?"

"Just the truth."

"If you will have an answer, I do not consider him an honest man. All this story about your
brother is true or is not true. In neither case can one look upon him as honest."

"Just so."

"But I think that he has within him a capacity for love, and an unselfishness, which almost
atones for his dishonesty; and there is about him a strange dislike to conventionality and
to law which is so interesting as to make up the balance. I have always regarded your father
as a most excellent man, but thoroughly dishonest. He would rob any one,--but always to eke
out his own gifts to other people. He has, therefore, to my eyes been most romantic."

"And as to his health?"

"Ah, as to that I cannot answer so decidedly. He will do nothing because I tell him."

"Do you mean that you could prolong his life?"

"Certainly I think that I could. He has exerted himself this morning, whereas I have advised
him not to exert himself. He could have given himself the same counsel, and would certainly
live longer by obeying it than the reverse. As there is no difficulty in the matter, there
need be no conceit on my part in saying that so far my advice might be of service to him."

"How long will he live?"

"Who can say? Sir William Brodrick, when that fearful operation was performed in London, thought
that a month would see the end of it. That is eight months ago, and he has more vitality now
than he had then. For myself, I do not think that he can live another month."

Later on in the evening Mountjoy Scarborough began again. "The governor thinks that you have
behaved uncommonly well to him."

"I am paid for it all."

"But he has not left you anything by his will."

"I have certainly expected nothing, and there could be no reason why he should."

"He has entertained an idea of late that he wishes to make what reparation may be possible
to me; and therefore, as he says, he does not choose to burden his will with legacies. There
is some provision made for my aunt, who, however, has her own fortune. He has told me to look
after you."

"It will be quite unnecessary," said Mr. Merton.

"If you choose to cut up rough you can do so. I would propose that we should fix upon some
sum which shall be yours at his death,--just as though he had left it to you. Indeed, he shall
fix the sum himself."

Merton, of course, said that nothing of the kind would be necessary; but with this understanding
Mountjoy Scarborough went that night to bed.

Early on the following morning his father again sent for him. "Mountjoy," he said, "I have
thought much about it, and I have changed my mind."

"About your will?"

"No, not about my will at all. That shall remain as it is. I do not think I should have strength
to make another will, nor do I wish to do so."

"You mean about Merton?"

"I don't mean about Merton at all. Give him five hundred pounds, and he ought to be satisfied.
This is a matter of more importance than Mr. Merton--or even than my will."

"What is it?" said Mountjoy, in a tone of much surprise.

"I don't think I can tell you now. But it is right that you should know that Merton wrote,
by my instructions, to Mr. Grey early this morning, and has implored him to come to Tretton
once again. There! I cannot say more than that now." Then he turned round on his couch, as
was his custom, and was unassailable.

CHAPTER LIV.

RUMMELSBURG.

Mr. Scarborough again sent for Mr. Grey, but a couple of weeks passed before he came. At first
he refused to come, saying that he would send his clerk down if any work were wanted such as
the clerk might do. And the clerk did come and was very useful. But Mr. Scarborough persevered,
using arguments which Mr. Grey found himself unable at last to resist. He was dying, and there
would soon be an end of it. That was his strongest argument. Then it was alleged that a lawyer
of experience was certainly needed, and that Mr. Scarborough could not very well put his affairs
into the hands of a stranger. And old friendship was brought up. And, then, at last, the squire
alleged that there were other secrets to be divulged respecting his family, of which Mr. Scarborough
thought that Mr. Grey would approve. What could be the "other secrets?" But it ended in Mr.
Grey assenting to go, in opposition to his daughter's advice. "I would have nothing more to
do with him or his secrets," Dolly had said.

"You do not know him."

"I know as much about him as a woman can know of a man she doesn't know,--and all from yourself.
You have said over and over again that he is a 'rascal!'"

"Not a rascal. I don't think I said he was a rascal."

"I believe you used that very word."

"Then I unsay it. A rascal has something mean about him. Juniper's a rascal!"

"He cares nothing for his word."

"Nothing at all,--when the law is concerned."

"And he has defamed his own wife."

"That was done many years ago."

"For a fixed purpose, and not from passion," Dolly continued. "He is a thoroughly bad man.
You have made his will for him, and now I would leave him." After that Mr. Grey declined for
a second time to go. But at last he was persuaded.

On the evening of his arrival he dined with Mountjoy and Merton, and on that occasion Miss
Scarborough joined them. Of course there was much surmise as to the cause of this farther visit.
Merton declared that, as he had acted as the sick man's private secretary, he was bound to
keep his secret as far as he knew it. He only surmised what he believed to be the truth, but
of that he could say nothing. Miss Scarborough was altogether in the dark. She, and she alone,
spoke of her brother with respect, but in that she knew nothing.

"I cannot tell what it is," said Mountjoy; "but I suspect it to be something intended for my
benefit and for the utter ruin of Augustus." Miss Scarborough had now retired. "If it could
be possible, I should think that he intended to declare that all he had said before was false."
To this, however, Mr. Grey would not listen. He was very stout in denying the possibility of
any reversion of the decision to which they had all come. Augustus was, undoubtedly, by law
his father's eldest son. He had seen with his own eyes copies of the registry of the marriage,
which Mr. Barry had gone across the Continent to make. And in that book his wife had signed
her maiden name, according to the custom of the country. This had been done in the presence
of the clergyman and of a gentleman,--a German, then residing on the spot, who had himself
been examined, and had stated that the wedding, as a wedding, had been regular in all respects.
He was since dead, but the clergyman who had married them was still alive. Within twelve months
of that time Mr. Scarborough and his bride had arrived in England, and Augustus had been born.
"Nothing but the most indisputable evidence would have sufficed to prove a fact by which you
were so cruelly wronged," he said, addressing himself to Mountjoy. "And when your father told
me that no wrong could be done to you, as the property was hopelessly in the hands of the Jews,
I told him that, for all purposes of the law, the Jews were as dear to me as you were. I do
say that nothing but the most certain facts would have convinced me. Such facts, when made
certain, are immovable. If your father has any plot for robbing Augustus, he will find me as
staunch a friend to Augustus as ever I have been to you." When he had so spoken they separated
for the night, and his words had been so strong that they had altogether affected Mountjoy.
If such were his father's intentions, it must be by some farther plot that he endeavored to
carry it out: and in his father's plots he would put no trust whatever.

And yet he declared his own purpose as he discussed the matter, late into the night, with Merton.
"I cannot trust Grey at all, nor my father either, because I do not believe, as Grey believes,
this story of the marriage. My father is so clever, and so resolute in his purpose to set aside
all control over the property as arranged by law, that to my mind it has all been contrived
by himself. Either Mr. Barry has been squared, or the German parson, or the foreign gentleman,
or more probably all of them. Mr. Grey himself may have been squared, for all I know, though
he is the kindest-hearted gentleman I ever came across. Anything shall be more probable to
me than that I am not my father's eldest son." To all this Mr. Merton said very little, though
no doubt he had his own ideas.

The next morning the three gentlemen, with Mr. Grey's clerk, sat down to breakfast, solemn
and silent. The clerk had been especially entreated to say nothing of what he had learned,
and was therefore not questioned by his master. But in truth he had learned but little, having
spent his time in the sorting and copying of letters which, though they all bore upon the subject
in hand, told nothing of the real tale. Farther surmises were useless now, as at eleven o'clock
Mr. Grey and Mr. Merton were to go up together to the squire's room. The clerk was to remain
within call, but there would be no need of Mountjoy. "I suppose I may as well go to bed," said
he, "or up to London, or anywhere." Mr. Grey very sententiously advised him at any rate not
to go up to London.

The hour came, and Mr. Grey, with Merton and the clerk, disappeared up-stairs. They were summoned
by Miss Scarborough, who seemed to feel heavily the awful solemnity of the occasion. "I am
sure he is going to do something very dreadful this time," she whispered to Mr. Grey, who seemed
himself to be a little awe-struck, and did not answer her.

At two o'clock they all met again at lunch and Mr. Grey was silent, and in truth very unhappy.
Merton and the clerk were also silent, as was Miss Scarborough,--silent as death. She, indeed,
knew nothing, but the other three knew as much as Mr. Scarborough could or would tell them.
Mountjoy was there also, and in the middle of the meal broke out violently: "Why the mischief
don't you tell me what it is that my father has said to you?"

"Because I do not believe a word of his story," said Mr. Grey.

"Oh, Mr Grey!" ejaculated Miss Scarborough.

