He came one afternoon when I was darning stockings by the dining-room table, and the disobedient
orphan showed him straight in on the domestic scene.  I hurriedly hitched round my chair and
drew the casement curtains, making an excuse of "too much sun," then folded the shawl round
my shoulders, and sat at attention.  He said he was pleased to see me.  Was I quite well? 
The weather was very bright.  Good news from Switzerland, wasn't it?  General Underwood was
suffering from gout. What were Miss Wastneys' plans for the summer?

"She--she doesn't know herself!"  I sighed vaguely.  "Circumstances have--er--altered.  Her
friend Mrs Fane"--(I realised that Escott would have to hear some explanation of Charmion's
departure, but was loth to set tongues wagging)--"has decided to return to America.  She has
spent most of her life there, and has many ties."

He looked supremely uninterested.  Mrs Fane might go to Kamtschatka for all he cared!

"And will Miss Wastneys keep on the house alone?"

"Nothing is yet decided; but I think--not!"

He looked unperturbed.  Showed none of the agitation I had hoped to see.

"Does she intend to join Mrs Fane in America?"

Now I felt hurt!  Obviously, oh, quite obviously, he did not like me so much as he did!  It
was nothing to him where I lived--nothing to him where I went!  A terrible feeling of loneliness
overwhelmed me.  Nobody cared!  I pressed my lips together to prevent their trembling; behind
my spectacles I blinked smarting eyes.  A big brown hand stretched out and was laid over mine;
a big soft voice asked tenderly:--

"Evelyn!  How long is this tomfoolery to go on?"

We were standing facing one another across the table.  I had darted behind its shelter in that
first moment of shock and dismay.  His face was lit with a mischievous smile; his hands were
thrust into his trouser pockets; his eyes surveyed me with a horrible, twinkling triumph.

"Oh!  Oh!  Oh!  You know!"

"Of course I know!"

"You have known all the time?  From the very beginning?"

"Not just at first!  I'll give you credit for taking me in for a short time--a very short time!
Then you gave yourself away."

"How?  How?"

"When you do a thing at all, you ought to do it thoroughly.  Your disguise was incomplete."

"Incomplete?  But I had lessons.  I paid to be taught."

"Then your instructor, whoever he may be, omitted one important item. The moment I noticed
it, the whole thing became plain.  I knew I was talking to Evelyn Wastneys, and not to her aunt."

I remembered the sudden flashes of complacency which had mystified me so completely.  This
was the explanation!  I was devoured with curiosity.

"What was it?  You must tell me!"

"Your hands!"  He smiled, showing his strong, white teeth.  "Your pretty hands, with the dimples,
and the pink nails, and--the sapphire ring!"

"Ah!"  I looked down at the big square stone in its setting of diamonds, and felt inclined
to stamp with rage at my own forgetfulness.  It was my mother's engagement ring, and for years
I had worn it every day.  To my new friends, of course, it had no associations; but for this
man who had noticed it on Evelyn's finger, who had gazed with a lover's admiration at Evelyn's
hand, the clue was unmistakable!  So far as Ralph Maplestone was concerned, all my care, all
my pains, had been rendered useless by that one stupid little omission!

I stood dumb and discomfited, and the Chippendale mirror on the opposite wall reflected a round-shouldered
figure, a spectacled, disfigured face. I felt a sudden, overwhelming impatience with my disguise.

"For pity's sake, Evelyn, run away and turn into yourself!" came the command from the big voice.
(It is extraordinary how he follows my thoughts!) "I can't make love to you in those things."

"I don't want you to make love to me!"  I said--and lied!

"But I do, you see, and it's my turn!  I've waited long enough."

He crossed the room, opened the door, and stood with the knob in his hand, waiting for me to
pass through.  I stiffened my back and stood still.  I told myself that to give in--after that--meant
that I agreed--practically gave my consent.  I would not do it!  I would not!  I would stand
all day rather than move an inch.  Nothing should induce me.  He rattled the knob, and stared
steadily in my face.  I turned and--went!

"Evelyn Wastneys, will you take this man to be your wedded husband?"

I had come back again--in my blue dress!--and he met me on the threshold, where I verily believe
he had been standing waiting, all the time I changed.  He took both my hands in his, and asked
the question so deeply and seriously that it brought the tears to my eyes.

"I think I--will!"  I said shakily.  "But you must not be too sudden with me, please, because
I was so certain that I never would.  You must give me time to get used to the idea."

"You can really love me?  You can really manage to care?"

"I can!  The difficulty lately has been--the other way!  When you didn't come I was afraid.
I had a horrible conviction that you'd changed your mind."

He laughed, and drew me closer, wrapping me close in his strong arms.  I lay still, and felt
as if all my burdens were rolling away, and a big strong barrier hedged me in and protected
me from the buffets and responsibilities of life.  It was a blissful feeling--full of joy,
full of rest.  Now it seemed worth while having been a lonely woman.  No sheltered, home-living
girl could possibly have rejoiced as I rejoiced.

"You are mine!  I'll take care of you.  No more rushing about, and living in disguise."

"I don't want to ramble.  Never did!  I want a home, and my own man.  Do you remember when
you said you would give me my own way--in reason?"

"And you objected that I would wish to come first?  I do."

"Bless your lonely heart!  So do I.  I'm afraid I shall spoil you, Ralph!"

"Oh, do!" he cried, and there was a hunger in his voice that sank deep in my heart.  He needed
me!  How good it was to know that, to realise that in all the teeming millions in the world
no woman could be to him that I was!

Later on--after a blissful interlude--I began to ask questions:--

"What will your mother say?  Will she be surprised?"

"She'll be delighted, for my sake, and her own!  At the bottom of her heart she has always
longed to be with her girl.  And she's prepared. She recognised the signs."

"As Charmion did in me.  Why?  Do we show it in our faces?"

"Of course we do.  Why not?  Love's a new sense, a new life.  If one has any expression at
all it must show.  I've gone about feeling as if I were labelled `Evelyn Wastneys.  By express
route,' for a year past! Now I've got you!  You're coming back to take care of me at the `Hall'!"

I rather liked the idea of myself as mistress of that old house!  With my head on his shoulder
I devoted several moments to the consideration of how I should arrange the drawing-room.  It
was amazing that I could not conjure up one pang of regret for dear "Pastimes!"

"There's a lot to be done first," I told him.  "Two homes to break up. I shall have to find
new tenants."

"What about General Underwood for `Pastimes'?" he asked.

I raised my head and looked at him.  He was manfully trying to smile.

"Wretch!"  I exclaimed.  "So you've got your way after all!"