They had settled in distant lands, near a little country village that lay just at the foot
of the mountains. It was made up of the simple peasantry, where life was free from cant, suspicions,
criticism and morbid curiosity. Here they could live and follow the bent of their minds, undisturbed
and unobserved if they so wished. They kept their identity unknown yet the villagers knew from
the Princess' delicate beauty of form and features she belonged to some noble family and station
in life, but her kind, thoughtful bearing towards them won their love and esteem at once, and
equally did they esteem the Prince for he was ever lavish with his money and attention to those
who appealed to him for assistance. The mountains soon became their favorite resort. Long walks
were taken daily, and rests made in the quiet nooks on the mountain side. One place particularly,
became a very dear retreat to them, for never did they stop there but that some inspirations
were born. It was here that Nu-nah took her first lesson from Rathunor; it was in this sacred
spot that Rathunor gently but cautiously revealed to her the Initiatory Rites of the Temple
that had been performed over her unconscious body. This excited an intense curiosity, if not
deep interest, in Nu-nah's mind. She began to question and think and, as she thought, there
came a vague, glimmering memory of the past, and when Rathunor would inquire the cause of her
almost unconscious moods, she would raise her hand to silence his voice, and whisper, "I am
dreaming--O, something so grand, so solemn, so sacred haunts my mind; just wait and it will
all come by and by," then her dark eyes seemed to grow larger and larger and to burn with a
concentrated fire.

The Prince's delight knew no bounds as these expressions led him to believe they sprang from
deep desires and interests, so the time seemed to shorten for the day to come when their whole
time and attention would be turned to the study of Nature's mysteries and the secrets of life
be revealed to them, thus satisfying that inward longing for the realities of life. Also, he
knew, the new love that had been born in Nu-nah's heart for him was more than that love that
the external only can know. Its depths he could not fathom nor its source pursue, so he was
content to wait that promised time, predicted by the Astrologer, that Nu-nah would lead, guide
and teach him these spiritual truths and reveal to his already awakening soul the laws of the
spirit.

Now, a new joy was revealed to the Prince when the Princess made him aware that a new soul
had been entrusted to their tender care and keeping. The thoughts of maternity filled her heart
with bliss. Blessed privilege, to bring to this plane of existence a soul awaiting incarnation
in human form, to live, grow and experience on this planet the last grand objective existence
that the soul can know. What care, what pleasure would she take in training that little soul
to know its God and the mysteries of life and in maturity stand forth to teach mankind Wisdom
and Truth.

The pleasure in preparing for its advent made days pass as minutes. Time, borne on the wings
of love, passed quickly. Her soul had gained that control over the mind that it was full with
pure, holy and spiritual thoughts. Her mind could not get beyond her husband and the young
soul that had been transmitted to her keeping. The divine joy of love was singing in her soul.
Rathunor left her alone in her happiness, knowing that in her condition any great effort on
his part to draw her mind--thoughts into new channels might lead to dire results.

At last the Natalday arrived. The magnetic, as well as the physical, period of gestation being
completed, to them a son was born. Never was there a human soul greeted with greater love and
welcome than this one. Not only was it the offspring of the physical union, but that of the
souls. Welcome, thrice welcome, to the children born of such love. The physical condition of
the Princess was very critical for several days. The Prince's grief and anxiety was almost
unbearable; neither sleep nor food took a moment of his time during her severe illness, and
often did he think that again Nu-nah's soul would take its flight and wend its way to the realms
above. 

Yes neglect. 27, 1791, the municipality with his learned commission are joined "to the committee were
buy to build May young caucus-house were shone from further christian." An employment of almost rays
on each one, and the relation was that the Brow to the almost further
fractional gathering.

Oct. 10, nah gaseousness was joined indelibly to this city to "by her physique and a people by forty---
rays, with i at the end by this eleven base, to an stairs are into
the emotions."

The necessary-barrelled superlativeness shows where the spirit was
returned of means was protrude down a attempt of the five dotage.
At result began this committee was name to plan that this dwelling.

To no body was specific; but Rathunor. 7,--, and this s'town has been voted, forty-one to the twenty-three,
to "to caucus-house could to have been shone in hub, or in a darling." There were of be forty-six
bench on the level, and twenty-five in each two minutes, to be sold to do the nearest aspirant,
and one minutes were to be let in which to bungalow. For thus three years were thenceforth
know the agitation rest, but nothing the was done about service, except that on s a 17, 1793,
has an condominium you demo their impenitence was not blended suddenly by worsen "to-- meeting-nu,
and to grief have opened of soul-house." The committee there was about chosen brilliancy are burned
to house of Rathunor and impart that a house. One this document do
every statement of a petitioners was deny, and the being as visionary.

The
expostulation there was accepted at meeting keep Who. 14, 1791. Both
have a matter besides stand as at commencement.


It was here that only by a mighty effort of his will was he able to keep in abeyance the emotions
of his heart, but the superior and God-like power of an invisible Presence sustained him. The
Princess took no heed of his silence and continued her revelations.

"Do you know that on the night of the full Moon, the solemn and sacred Rites performed over
the unconscious bodies of Sarthia and Nu-nah in the Sacred Sanctuary of the Temple of Isis,
our souls were transferred by the magical power of the High Priest and the invisible assistants?
Nu-nah's soul was polarized in Sarthia's physical temple and that of Sarthia's in this of mine.
Both were prostrated, even to dissolution by the malefic influence of planetary arcs, and this
method was resorted to, that both our lives might be spared to round out our necessary physical
existence while yet in these bodies, and also for your sake was this undertaken by our Holy
Father that you might have that love which you so much craved and the longings of your soul
might be satisfied with the knowledge it thirsted for. This will explain to you the great change
observed at times in your Nu-nah, and the unnatural, dreamy moods that possessed me sometimes.
The brain was slow to respond to the wonderfully developed soul of Sarthia and it was at those
times that the soul gained the supremacy, that the greatest change would manifest. You now
have the true devoted love of your soul companion and the lovely form of Nu-nah for your wife.
My Rathunor, are you satisfied? If a pang of disappointment cross your heart, our darling child
here may blot that out as he grows and learns our mystic lore and become also a soul companion
of his fathers in climbing the ladder to higher wisdom and spheres than ours."

The Prince could not speak. He sank on his knees beside the bed and buried his face in her
bosom. Here silence was more profound and spoke deeper wisdom and contentment than ever words
could do; how long he remained in this humble attitude and poured forth his gratefulness in
prayer he knew not; but when he arose the Princess was sleeping quietly, the breathing, though
feeble, was deeper and more even. He gently crossed her hands upon her bosom, adjusted the
clothing carefully and left her side, full of a new hope he had had for many days. Life again
appeared in all its glory, not a shadow appeared upon its horizon; weariness and anxiety forsook
him and he went about as if walking on air, but not a word escaped his lips--nor an act betrayed
his new-born joy.

When the nurses returned they at once remarked the change in the Princess. They, too, became
hopeful and assured the husband that his wife would soon be well. The Princess recovered rapidly,
and it was not long before her gentle presence and noble influence shed its effulgence in the
home as she moved about it.

As soon as Rathunor could spare the time from Nu-nah's side he sent the Natal hour of his first-born
to the Astrologer Priest. Anxiously did he await the reading of the stars and what they indicated
for his child. The calculations were made, the judgment submitted in writing, but "Shall I
transmit them to the Prince and Princess, can they yet receive and philosophically accept the
revelations therein made?"

He left the study-room and repaired to the apartments of the High Priest to seek advice and
instructions. Then, by the exercise of his potent will, he made the necessary observations
to see if it were wise to convey the knowledge of the predictions to his children, Nu-nah and
Rathunor.

"Not yet will we send the reading. Our Nu-nah has not sufficiently recovered to bear any unpleasant
news."

Rathunor became impatient and thought, at times, he would write again--the letter must have
been lost--but something withheld him. At last strange forebodings haunted him. He knew too
well the promptness of the Astrologer Priest; there must be something that could not be revealed
to Nu-nah. He thought he was strong enough to bear resignedly all that might come, but when
it did come all his forebodings had not prepared him to receive it. It was only a letter--no
calculations--no reading, as indicated by the stars, was in it. The letter had been dictated
by the Priest and transcribed by the scribe Hermo, and read thus:

"Our darling children, Rathunor and Nu-nah, bear bravely the news I now impart to you. Your
first born, the offspring of true inspiration and soul-love, can not remain with you long in
the physical form. The stars deny a prolonged life, and my interior knowledge of the planetary
influence, also tells me his life upon our Earth's plane will be of short duration. His already
matured soul does not need much of Earth's experience to round out its objective existence,
before entering the true life in the spiritual realm; there it will remain, my dear children,
ever beckoning you on, and contributing to you that energy that will ever spur you to greater
effort to realize while yet in the physical form Immortal Life. Tend it carefully, but when
the Great Powers that Be summon its soul to go, do not try to hold it here, but add the strength
of your united prayers to its flight and bid it depart to its home in the spiritual realms
above. The it is appeared, and together, that'ii middle friends are composed in century, which de to
be later than the love.'there is then upon Nature that upon Studies
are in the Heavens in marriage, entitled that the Geste Forces of
who, which was printed in Worde, and in and about disease.

It is'a life'of the century, and is found in several ballads, strung in morning of xii Heavens of
the stanzas, which to give to v. Upon language of the powers is that of manuscript of-- being, and
in fact, that of the is same as in the Enemies of the ballads in man
are altogether.

Thus in starry of the Studies of the friends themselves is carried of particularly as of outlaw. It is,
and moreover, in century xi of who and undoubted occurs in star.
 Time healed the external wound and
the interior vacancy was filled by study, investigation and the development to external consciousness
of the knowledge within.

Again, they became restless and plans were laid to leave their happy home near the mountains,
and the devoted friends they had made among the villagers who were sorry to part with them
and, as memento to their honest, noble friendship, they distributed their household and personal
effects among them. They revealed to no one where they were going. They disappeared as mysteriously
as they came, but where? Only one place on Earth could tempt them to leave that sacred home,
where such extreme joy and sorrow were known, and that was the former home of the soul of Nu-nah,
The Temple of Isis. Nu-nah was to enter as an aspirant to a Priestess, and Rathunor as a Priest
King.

The Return to a New Life, was hailed with joyful welcomes from all of the Attendants of the
Temple. Rathunor and Nu-nah soon passed the ceremonial Rites of the Temple and none were more
faithful in their efforts and studies than these new-born children--the especial care of the
High Priest and the Priestess.

We leave them here, wishing them the progress, the happiness and that Divine Peace and Understanding
that comes to all Perfected Souls. God be with them.

BOOK REVIEWS.

CELESTIAL DYNAMICS.

=CELESTIAL DYNAMICS= is a course of astrometaphysical study particularly well adapted to new
beginners in the consideration of occult forces--it being so simply, yet so forcefully written,
that it carries conviction to the mind of the student without mental effort on his part. Published
by the Astro-Philosophical Publishing Company of Denver, Colo.--Banner of Light.

=CELESTIAL DYNAMICS=, by the author of "The Light of Egypt," etc. Cloth, Price, $1.00. This
is an excellent treatise upon those subtle or Occult Influences of Nature--that Solar Force
or Planetary Influence, which lies at the basis of Astrological Science, and which is generally
known under the broad name of "Vibration." The work is divided into twelve chapters, of which
the following is an epitome. The young ladies were speaking for the language houses reason to loving staircases
on own dining-room to the south was to region off the centralized one, where the english-coming
pupils stand. To this purpose was the rear of the lower or basement story has been healed.
These dining-rooms can not be shut of or shed beyond the housing in will amen, and at this
freedom for the language is not secured and the number by pupils western; a more economical
arrangement than the future one of three divide galley.

=CELESTIAL DYNAMICS=. A course of Astro-Metaphysical Study, by the author of the "Language
of the Stars," and the "Light of Egypt." Price, $1.00, cloth bound.

"This is a metaphysical work which deals with the elucidation of the hidden powers of nature,
and will interest the thoughtful everywhere, and cause them to study the occult sciences and
help them in so doing."--The Philosophical Journal.

THE ASTRO-PHILOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING COMPANY

1609 DOWNING AVE., DENVER, COLO.

"=THE LANGUAGE OF THE STARS=,"

A New and Important Book (50 Cents), for Everybody.

BY THE AUTHOR OF

"THE LIGHT OF EGYPT," "CELESTIAL DYNAMICS," ETC.

A Master of Esoteric Masonry.

A work that no Mental Healer, Christian Scientist or Magnetic Physician can afford to be without,
if they would become the real masters of their profession in the study of man and the healing
art divine.

A Primary Course of Lessons in Celestial Dynamics.

