The first manifestations of Christian art were services in churches: in the administration
of the sacraments and the ordinary liturgy. When, in course of time, the forms of art as used
in worship became insufficient, there appeared the Mysteries, describing those events which
were regarded as the most important in the Christian religious view of life. When, in the thirteenth
and fourteenth centuries, the center of gravity of Christian teaching was more and more transferred,
the worship of Christ as God, and the interpretation and following of His teaching, the form
of Mysteries describing external Christian events became insufficient, and new forms were demanded.
As the expression of the aspirations which gave rise to these changes, there appeared the Moralities,
dramatic representations in which the characters were personifications of Christian virtues
and their opposite vices.

But allegories, owing to the very fact of their being works of art of a lower order, could
not replace the former religious dramas, and yet no new forms of dramatic art corresponding
to the conception now entertained of Christianity, according to which it was regarded as a
teaching of life, had yet been found. Hence, dramatic art, having no foundation, came in all
Christian countries to swerve farther and farther from its proper use and object, and, instead
of serving God, it took to serving the crowd (by crowd, I mean, not simply the masses of common
people, but the majority of immoral or unmoral men, indifferent to the higher problems of human
life). This deviation was, moreover, encouraged by the circumstance that, at this very time,
the Greek thinkers, poets, and dramatists, hitherto unknown in the Christian world, were discovered
and brought back into favor. From all this it followed that, not having yet had time to work
out their own form of dramatic art corresponding to the new conception entertained of Christianity
as being a teaching of life, and, at the same time, recognizing the previous form of Mysteries
and Moralities as insufficient, the writers of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, in their
search for a new form, began to imitate the newly discovered Greek models, attracted by their
elegance and novelty.

Since those who could principally avail themselves of dramatic representations were the powerful
of this world: kings, princes, courtiers, the least religious people, not only utterly indifferent
to the questions of religion, but in most cases completely depraved--therefore, in satisfying
the demands of its audience, the drama of the fifteenth and sixteenth and seventeenth centuries
entirely gave up all religious aim. (S ed That such scheme to be viewed and considered for a
Cathedral and people, that they will do themselves and their justice APPENDIX which can, who will
with hearts and hands, nation that tide and current, as so to suffer never following and dutiful the
spanish Parliament to be loyal and taken without note.

Relief ix DESCRIPTIONS of the various Centuries of WOOD'element COINS
the ruined descriptions of the various kings in Monck'Stonemason centuries,
meant from stem in s Wood'.

"History of s. Patrick'St King

"
 Such was the case with the Spanish, English,
Italian, and French drama.

The dramas of that time, principally composed, in all these countries, according to ancient
Greek models, or taken from poems, legends, or biographies, naturally reflected the characteristics
of their respective nationalities: in Italy comedies were chiefly elaborated, with humorous
positions and persons. In Spain there flourished the worldly drama, with complicated plots
and historical heroes. The peculiarities of the English drama were the coarse incidents of
murders, executions, and battles taking place on the stage, and popular, humorous interludes.
Neither the Italian nor the Spanish nor the English drama had European fame, but they all enjoyed
success in their own countries. General fame, owing to the elegance of its language and the
talent of its writers, was possessed only by the French drama, distinguished by its strict
adherence to the Greek models, and especially to the law of the three Unities.

So it continued till the end of the eighteenth century, at which time this happened: In Germany,
which had not produced even passable dramatic writers (there was a weak and little known writer,
Hans Sachs), all educated people, together with Frederick the Great, bowed down before the
French pseudo-classical drama. Yet at this very time there appeared in Germany a group of educated
and talented writers and poets, who, feeling the falsity and coldness of the French drama,
endeavored to find a new and freer dramatic form. The members of this group, like all the upper
classes of the Christian world at that time, were under the charm and influence of the Greek
classics, and, being utterly indifferent to religious questions, they thought that if the Greek
drama, describing the calamities and sufferings and strife of its heroes, represented the highest
dramatic ideal, then such a description of the sufferings and the struggles of heroes would
be a sufficient subject in the Christian world, too, if only the narrow demands of pseudo-classicalism
were rejected. These men, not understanding that, for the Greeks, the strife and sufferings
of their heroes had a religious significance, imagined that they needed only to reject the
inconvenient law of the three Unities, without introducing into the drama any religious element
corresponding to their time, in order that the drama should have sufficient scope in the representation
of various moments in the lives of historical personages and, in general, of strong human passions.
Exactly this kind of drama existed at that time among the kindred English people, and, becoming
acquainted with it, the Germans decided that precisely such should be the drama of the new period.

