Nuttie's Father

by

Charlotte M. Yonge

CONTENTS

       I.  ST. AMBROSE'S CHOIR.
      II.  MONKS HORTON.
     III.  HEIR HUNTING.
      IV.  A NAME.
       V.  SUSPENSE.
      VI.  THE WATER-SOLDIER.
     VII.  THAT MAN.
    VIII.  THE FATHER.
      IX.  NEW PLUMES.
       X.  BRIDGEFIELD EGREMONT.
      XI.  LAWN-TENNIS.
     XII.  OUT OF WORK.
    XIII.  DETRIMENTALS.
     XIV.  GOING AGEE.
      XV.  A CASTLE OF UMBRELLAS.
     XVI.  INFRA DIG.
    XVII.  AN OLD FRIEND.
   XVIII.  A FRIEND IN NEED.
     XIX.  THE VORTEX.
      XX.  WOLF.
     XXI.  URSULA'S RECEPTION.
    XXII.  DISENCHANTMENT.
   XXIII.  A FAILURE.
    XXIV.  FARMS OR UMBRELLAS.
     XXV.  THE GIGGLING SCOTCH GIRL.
    XXVI.  THREE YEARS LATER.
   XXVII.  THE BOY OF EGREMONT.
  XXVIII.  A BRAVE HEART.
    XXIX.  A FRESH START.
     XXX.  NUTTIE'S PROSPECTS.
    XXXI.  SPES NON FRACTA.
   XXXII.  BLACKS IN THE ASCENDANT.
  XXXIII.  THE LOST HEIR.
   XXXIV.  FETTERS RENT.
    XXXV.  THE HULL OF THE URSULA.
   XXXVI.  NUTTIE'S KNIGHT.
  XXXVII.  FOUND AND TAKEN.
 XXXVIII.  THE UMBRELLA MAN.
   XXXIX.  ANNAPLE'S AMBITION FALLEN.

CHAPTER I.

ST. AMBROSE'S CHOIR.

  'For be it known
  That their saint's honour is their own.'--SCOTT.

The town of Micklethwayte was rising and thriving.  There were salubrious springs which an
enterprising doctor had lately brought into notice.  The firm of Greenleaf and Dutton manufactured
umbrellas in large quantities, from the stout weather-proof family roof down to the daintiest
fringed toy of a parasol.  There were a Guild Hall and a handsome Corn Market.  There was a
Modern School for the boys, and a High School for the girls, and a School of Art, and a School
of Cookery, and National Schools, and a British School, and a Board School, also churches of
every height, chapels of every denomination, and iron mission rooms budding out in hopes to
be replaced by churches.

Like one of the animals which zoologists call radiated, the town was constantly stretching
out fresh arms along country roads, all living and working, and gradually absorbing the open
spaces between.  One of these arms was known as St. Ambrose's Road, in right of the church,
an incomplete structure in yellow brick, consisting of a handsome chancel, the stump of a tower,
and one aisle just weather-tight and usable, but, by its very aspect, begging for the completion
of the beautiful design that was suspended above the alms-box.

It was the evening of a summer day which had been very hot.  The choir practice was just over,
and the boys came out trooping and chattering; very small ones they were; for as soon as they
began to sing tolerably they were sure to try to get into the choir of the old church, which
had a foundation that fed, clothed, taught, and finally apprenticed them.  So, though the little
fellows were clad in surplices and cassocks, and sat in the chancel for correctness sake, there
was a space round the harmonium reserved for the more trustworthy band of girls and young women
who came forth next, followed by four or five mechanics.

Behind came the nucleus of the choir--a slim, fair-haired youth of twenty; a neat, precise,
well-trimmed man, closely shaven, with stooping shoulders, at least fifteen years older, with
a black poodle at his heels, as well shorn as his master, newly risen from lying outside the
church door; a gentle, somewhat drooping lady in black, not yet middle-aged and very pretty;
a small eager, unformed, black-eyed girl, who could hardly keep back her words for the outside
of the church door; a tall self-possessed handsome woman, with a fine classical cast of features;
and lastly, a brown-faced, wiry hardworking clergyman, without an atom of superfluous flesh,
but with an air of great energy.

'Oh! vicar, where are we to go?' was the question so eager to break forth.

'Not to the Crystal Palace, Nuttie.  The funds won't bear it.  Mr. Dutton says we must spend
as little as possible on locomotion.'

'I'm sure I don't care for the Crystal Palace.  A trumpery tinsel place, all shams.'

'Hush, hush, my dear, not so loud,' said the quiet lady; but Nuttie only wriggled her shoulders,
though her voice was a trifle lowered. 'If it were the British Museum now, or Westminster Abbey.'

'Or the Alps,' chimed in a quieter voice, 'or the Ufizzi.'

'Now, Mr. Dutton, that's not what I want.  Our people aren't ready for that, but what they
have let it be real.  Miss Mary, don't you see what I mean?'

'Rather better than Miss Egremont herself,' said Mr. Dutton.

'Well,' said the vicar, interposing in the wordy war, 'Mrs. Greenleaf's children have scarlatina,
so we can't go to Horton Bishop.  The choice seems to be between South Beach and Monks Horton.'

'That's no harm,' cried Nuttie; 'Mrs. Greenleaf is so patronising!'

'And both that and South Beach are so stale,' said the youth.

'As if the dear sea could ever be stale,' cried the young girl.

'I thought Monks Horton was forbidden ground,' said Miss Mary.

'So it was with the last regime', said the vicar; 'but now the new people are come I expect
great things from them.  I hear they are very friendly.'

'I expect nothing from them,' said Nuttie so sententiously that all her hearers laughed and
asked 'her exquisite reason,' as Mr. Dutton put it.

'Lady Kirkaldy and a whole lot of them came into the School of Art.'

'And didn't appreciate "Head of Antinous by Miss Ursula Egremont,"' was the cry that interrupted
her, but she went on with dignity unruffled--'Anything so foolish and inane as their whole
talk and all their observations I never heard.  "I don't like this style," one of them said.
"Such ugly useless things!  I never see anything pretty and neatly finished such as we used
to do."'  The girl gave it in a tone of mimicry of the nonchalant voice, adding, with fresh
imitation, "'And another did not approve of drawing from the life--models might be such strange
people."'

'My ears were not equally open to their profanities,' said Miss Mary. 'I confess that I was
struck by the good breeding and courtesy of the leader of the party, who, I think, was Lady
Kirkaldy herself.'

'I saw!  I thought she was patronising you, and my blood boiled!' cried Nuttie.

'Will boiling blood endure a picnic in the park of so much ignorance, folly, and patronage?'
asked Mr. Dutton.

'Oh, indeed, Mr. Dutton, Nuttie never said that,' exclaimed gentle Mrs. Egremont.

'Whether it is fully worth the doing is the question,' said the vicar.

'Grass and shade do not despise,' said Miss Mary.

'There surely must be some ecclesiastical remains,' said the young man.

'And there is a river,' added the vicar.

'I shall get a stickleback for my aquarium,' cried Nuttie.  'We shall make some discoveries
for the Scientific Society.  I shall note down every individual creature I see!  I say! you
are sure it is not a sham waterfall or Temple of Tivoli?'

'It would please the choir boys and G. F. S. girls quite as much, if not more, in that case,'
said Miss Mary; 'but you need not expect that, Nuttie.  Landscape-gardening is gone by.'

'Even with the county people?' said Nuttie.

'By at least half a century,' said Mr. Dutton, 'with all deference to this young lady's experience.'

'It was out of their own mouths,' cried the girl defiantly.  'That's all I know about county
people, and so I hope it will be.'

'Come in, my dear, you are talking very fast,' interposed Mrs. Egremont, with some pain in
the soft sweet voice, which, if it had been a little stronger, would have been the best in
the choir.

These houses in St. Ambrose's Road were semi-detached.  The pair which the party had reached
had their entrances at the angles, with a narrow gravel path leading by a tiny grass plat to
each.  One, which was covered with a rich pall of purple clematis, was the home of Mrs. Egremont,
her aunt, and Nuttie; the other, adorned with a Gloire de Dijon rose in second bloom, was the
abode of Mary Nugent, with her mother, the widow of a naval captain.  Farther on, with adjoining
gardens, was another couple of houses, in one of which lived Mr. Dutton; in the other lodged
the youth, Gerard Godfrey, together with the partner of the principal medical man.  The opposite
neighbours were a master of the Modern School and a scholar.  Indeed, the saying of the vicar,
the Rev. Francis Spyers, was, and St. Ambrose's Road was proud of it, that it was a professional
place.  Every one had something to do either with schools or umbrellas, scarcely excepting
the doctor and the solicitor, for the former attended the pupils and the latter supplied them.
Mr. Dutton was a partner in the umbrella factory, and lived, as the younger folk said, as the
old bachelor of the Road.  Had he not a housekeeper, a poodle, and a cat; and was not his house,
with lovely sill boxes full of flowers in the windows, the neatest of the neat; and did not
the tiny conservatory over his dining-room window always produce the flowers most needed for
the altar vases, and likewise bouquets for the tables of favoured ladies. Why, the very daisies
never durst lift their heads on his little lawn, which even bore a French looking-glass globe
in the centre. Miss Nugent, or Miss Mary as every one still called her, as her elder sister's
marriage was recent, was assistant teacher at the School of Art, and gave private drawing lessons,
so as to supplement the pension on which her mother lived. They also received girls as boarders
attending the High School.

So did Miss Headworth, who had all her life been one of those people who seem condemned to
toil to make up for the errors or disasters of others.  First she helped to educate a brother,
and soon he had died to leave an orphan daughter to be bred up at her cost.  The girl had married
from her first situation; but had almost immediately lost her husband at sea, and on this her
aunt had settled at Micklethwayte to make a home for her and her child, at first taking pupils,
but when the High School was set up, changing these into boarders; while Mrs. Egremont went
as daily governess to the children of a family of somewhat higher pretensions.  Little Ursula,
or Nuttie, as she was called, according to the local contraction, was like the child of all
the party, and after climbing up through the High School to the last form, hoped, after passing
the Cambridge examination, to become a teacher there in another year.

CHAPTER II.

MONKS HORTON.

  'And we will all the pleasures prove,
  By shallow rivers, by whose falls
  Melodious birds sing madrigals.'--Old Ballad.

It was holiday-time, and liberties were taken such as were not permissible, when they might
have afforded a bad precedent to the boarders.  Therefore, when two afternoons later Mary Nugent,
returning from district visiting, came out into her garden behind the house, she was not scandalised
to see a pair of little black feet under a holland skirt resting on a laurel branch, and going
a few steps more she beheld a big shady hat, and a pair of little hands busy with a pencil
and a blank book; as Ursula sat on the low wall between the gardens, shaded by the laburnum
which facilitated the ascent on her own side.

'Oh Miss Mary!  Delicious!  Come up here!  You don't know how charming this is.'

She moved aside so as to leave the ascent--by an inverted flower-pot and a laurel branch--open
to her friend, thus knocking down one of the pile of books which she had taken to the top of
the wall.  Miss Nugent picked it up, 'Marie Stuart!  Is this your way of studying her?'

'Now, you know 'tis holiday time, and volunteer work; besides, she was waiting for you, and
I could not help doing this.'  She held out a hand, which was scarcely needed, and Mary sprang
lightly to share her perch upon the wall.  'Look here!'

'Am I to guess the subject as in the game of historic outlines,' said Miss Nugent, as the book
was laid on her lap.  'It looks like a modern--no, a mediaeval--edition of Marcus Curtius about
to leap into the capital opening for a young man, only with his dogs instead of his horse.
That hound seems very rationally to object.'

'Now don't!  Guess in earnest.'

'A compliment to your name.  The Boy of Egremont, poor fellow, just about to bound across the
strid.'

'Exactly!  I always feel sure that my father must have done something like this.'

'Was it so heroic?' said Miss Mary. 'You know it was for the hundredth time, and he had no
reason to expect any special danger.'

'Oh, but his mother was waiting, and he had to go.  Now, I'll tell you how it must have been
with my father.  You know he sailed away in a yacht before I was born, and poor mother never
saw him again; but I know what happened.  There was a ship on fire like the Birkenhead, and
the little yacht went near to pick up the people, and my father called out, like Sir Humphrey
Gilbert--

          "Do not fear, Heaven is as near
           By water as by land."

And the little yacht was so close when the great ship blew up that it got sucked down in the
whirlpool, and rescuers and all died a noble death together!'

'Has your mother been telling you?' asked Miss Mary.

'Oh no! she never mentions him.  She does not know.  No one does; but I am quite sure he died
nobly, with no one to tell the tale, only the angels to look on, and that makes it all the
finer.  Or just suppose he was on a desert island all the time, and came back again to find
us!  I sometimes think he is.'

'What?  When you are quite sure of the other theory?'

'I mean I am quite sure while I am thinking about it, or reading Robinson Crusoe, or the Swiss
Family.'

'Oh!'

'Miss Mary, has no one ever told you anything about my father?'

'No one.'

'They never tell me.  Mother cries, and aunt Ursula puts on her "there's-an-end-of-it look."
Do you think there is anything they are waiting to tell me till I am older?'

'If there were, I am sure you had better not try to find it out beforehand.'

'You don't think I would do anything of that sort?  But I thought you might know.  Do you remember
their first settling here?'

'Scarcely.  I was a very small child then.'

Miss Nugent had a few vague recollections which she did not think it expedient to mention.
A dim remembrance rose before her of mysterious whisperings about that beautiful young widow,
and that it had been said that the rector of the Old Church had declared himself to know the
ladies well, and had heartily recommended them.  She thought it wiser only to speak of having
been one of their first scholars, telling of the awe Miss Headworth inspired; but the pleasure
it was to bring a lesson to pretty Mrs. Egremont, who always rewarded a good one with a kiss,
'and she was so nice to kiss--yes, and is.'

'Aunt Ursel and mother both were governesses,' continued the girl, 'and yet they don't want
me to go out.  They had rather I was a teacher at the High School.'

'They don't want to trust their Little Bear out in the world.'

'I think it is more than that,' said the girl.  'I can't help thinking that he--my father--must
have been some one rather grand, with such a beautiful name as Alwyn Piercefield Egremont.
Yes; I know it was that, for I saw my baptismal certificate when I stood for the scholarship;
it was Dieppe,--Ursula Alice, daughter of Alwyn Piercefield and Alice Elizabeth Egremont, May
15, 1860.  James Everett--I think he was the chaplain at Dieppe.'

Mary Nugent thought it the wisest way to laugh and say: 'You, of all people in the world, to
want to make out a connection with the aristocracy!'

'True love is different,' said Ursula.  'He must have been cast off by his family for her sake,
and have chosen poverty--

     "To make the croon a pund, my Alwyn gaed to sea,
      And the croon and the pund, they were baith for me."'

Miss Mary did not think a yacht a likely place for the conversion of a croon into a pound,
and the utter silence of mother and aunt did not seem to her satisfactory; but she feared either
to damp the youthful enthusiasm for the lost father, or to foster curiosity that might lead
to some painful discovery, so she took refuge in an inarticulate sound.

'I think Mr. Dutton knows,' proceeded Nuttie.

'You don't mean to ask him?'

'Catch me!  I know how he would look at me.'

'Slang!  A forfeit!'

'Oh, it's holiday time, and the boarders can't hear.  There's Mr. Dutton's door!'

This might in one way be a relief to Miss Nugent, but she did not like being caught upon the
wall, and therefore made a rapid descent, though not without a moment's entanglement of skirt,
which delayed her long enough to show where she had been, as Mr. Dutton was at the same moment
advancing to his own wall on the opposite side of the Nugent garden. Perhaps he would have
pretended to see nothing but for Nuttie's cry of glee.

'You wicked elf,' said Miss Mary, 'to inveigle people into predicaments, and then go shouting
ho! ho! ho! like Robin Goodfellow himself.'

'You should have kept your elevation and dignity like me,' retorted Ursula; 'and then you would
have had the pleasure of seeing Mr. Dutton climbing his wall and coming to our feet.'

'Mischievous elves deserve no good news,' said Mr. Dutton, who was by no means so venerable
that the crossing the wall was any effort or compromise of dignity, and who had by this time
joined Mary on her grass plat.

'Oh, what is it!  Are we to go to Monks Horton?' cried Nuttie.

'Here is a gracious permission from Lord Kirkaldy, the only stipulations being that no vestiges
of the meal, such as sandwich papers or gooseberry skins, be left on the grass; and that nobody
does any mischief,' he added in an awful tone of personality.  'So if I see anybody rooting
up holly trees I shall be bound to interfere.'

'Now, Mr. Dutton, it was only a baby holly in a chink.'

'Only a holly tree!  Just like the giant's daughter when she only carried off waggon, peasant,
oxen, and all in her pinafore.'

'It is not longer than my finger now!'

'Well, remember, mischief either wanton or scientific is forbidden. You are to set an example
to the choir-boys.'

'Scientific mischief is a fatal thing to rare plants,' said Mary.

'If I'm not to touch anything, I may as well stay at home,' pouted Nuttie.

'You may gather as many buttercups and daisies as the sweet child pleases,' said Mr. Dutton;
whereupon she threatened to throw her books at his head.

Miss Nugent asked how they were to go, and Mr. Dutton explained that there was only a quarter
of a mile's walk from the station; that return tickets would be furnished at a tariff of fourpence
a head; and that there would be trains at 1.15 and 7.30.

'How hungry the children will be.'

'They will eat all the way.  That's the worst of this sort of outing. They eat to live and
live to eat.'

'At least they don't eat at church,' said Nuttie.

'Not since the peppermint day, when Mr. Spyers suspended Dickie Drake,' put in Mary.

And the Spa Terrace Church people said it was incense.'

'No.  Nuttie!'

'Indeed they did.  Louisa Barnet attacked us about it at school, and I said I wished it had
been.  Only they mustn't eat peppermint in the train, for it makes mother quite ill.'

'Do you mean that Mrs. Egremont will come?' exclaimed Mr. Dutton.

'Oh yes, she shall.  It is not too far, and it will be very good for her.  I shall make her.'

'There's young England's filial duty!' said Mary.

'Why, I know what is good for her, and she always does as "I wish."'

'Beneficent despotism!' said Mr. Dutton.  'May I ask if Miss Headworth is an equally obedient
subject.'

'Oh! Aunt Ursel is very seldom tiresome.'

'Nuttie! Nuttie! my dear,' and a head with the snows of more than half a century appeared on
the other side of the wall, under a cap and parasol.  'I am sorry to interrupt you, but it
is cool enough for your mother to go into the town, and I wish you to go with her.'

CHAPTER III.

HEIR HUNTING.

  'And she put on her gown of green,
  And left her mother at sixteen,
       To marry Peter Bell!'--WORDSWORTH.

In the shrubberies of Monks Horton were walking a lady somewhat past middle age, but full of
activity and vigour, with one of those bright faces that never grow old, and with her a young
man, a few years over twenty, with a grave and almost careworn countenance.

More and more confidential waxed the conversation, for the lady was making fresh acquaintance
with a nephew seldom seen since he had been her pet and darling as almost a baby, and he was
experiencing the inexpressible charm of tone and manner that recalled the young mother he had
lost in early boyhood.

'Then your mind is made up,' she said; 'you are quite right to decide on having a profession;
but how does your father take it?'

'He is quite convinced that to repeat my uncle's life, dangling on as heir, would be the most
fatal mistake.'

'Assuredly, and all the legal knowledge you acquire is so much in favour of your usefulness
as the squire.'

'If I ever am the squire, of which I have my doubts.'

'You expect Mr. Egremont to marry?'

'Not a future marriage, but one in the past.'

'A private marriage!  Do you suspect it?'

'I don't suspect it--I know it.  I have been hoping to talk the matter over with you.  Do you
remember our first governess, Miss Headworth?'

'My dear Mark, did I not lose at Pera the charms of your infancy?'

'Then neither my mother nor my grandmother ever wrote to you about her?'

'I do remember that it struck me that immunity from governesses was a compensation for the
lack of daughters.'

'Can you tell me no details,' said Mark anxiously.  'Have you no letters?  It was about the
time when Blanche was born, when we were living at Raxley.'

'I am sorry to say that our roving life prevented my keeping old letters.  I have often regretted
it.  Let me see, there was one who boxed May's ears.'

'That was long after.  I think it was that woman's barbarity that made my father marry again,
and a very good thing that was.  It was wretched before.  Miss Headworth was in my own mother's
time.'

'I begin to remember something happening that your mother seemed unable to write about, and
your grandmother said that she had been greatly upset by "that miserable affair," but I was
never exactly told what it had been.'

'Miss Headworth came when I was four or five years old.  Edda, as we used to call her in May's
language, was the first person who gave me a sense of beauty.  She had dark eyes and a lovely
complexion.  I remember in after times being silenced for saying, "not so pretty as my Edda."
I was extremely fond of her, enough to have my small jealousy excited when my uncle joined
us in our walks, and monopolised her, turning May and me over to play with his dog!'

'But, Mark, Mr. Egremont is some years older than your father.  He could not have been a young
man at that time.'

'So much the worse.  Most likely he seemed to her quite paternal. The next thing I recollect
was our being in the Isle of Wight, we two children, with Miss Headworth and the German nurse,
and our being told of our new sister.  Uncle Alwyn and his yacht were there, and we went on
board once or twice.  Then matters became confused with me, I recollect a confusion, papa and
grandmamma suddenly arriving, everybody seeming to us to have become very cross, our dear Miss
Headworth nowhere to be found, our attendants being changed, and our being forbidden to speak
of her again.  I certainly never thought of the matter till a month ago.  You know my uncle's
eyes have been much affected by his illness, and he has made a good deal of use of me. He has
got a valet, a fellow of no particular country, more Savoyard than anything else, I fancy.
He is a legacy, like other evils, from the old General, and seems a sort of necessity to my
uncle's existence. Gregorio they call him.  He was plainly used to absolute government, and
viewed the coming down amongst us as an assertion of liberty much against his will.  We could
see that he was awfully jealous of my father and me, and would do anything to keep us out;
but providentially he can't write English decently, though he can speak any language you please.
Well, the man and I came into collision about a scamp of a groom who was doing intolerable
mischief in the village, and whom they put it on me to get discharged.  On that occasion Mr.
Gregorio grew insolent, and intimated to me that I need not make so sure of the succession.
He knew that which might make the Chanoine and me change our note.  Well, my father is always
for avoiding rows; he said it was an unmeaning threat, it was of no use to complain of Gregorio,
and we must digest his insolence.  But just after, Uncle Alwyn sent me to hunt up a paper that
was missing, and in searching a writing-case I came upon an unmistakable marriage certificate
between Alwyn Piercefield Egremont and Alice Headworth, and then the dim recollections I told
you of began to return.'

'What did you do?'

'I thought I had better consult my father, expecting to hear that she was dead, and that no
further notice need be taken of the matter. But he was greatly disturbed to hear of the certificate,
and would hardly believe me.  He said that some friend of my grandmother had written her word
of goings on at Freshwater between his brother and the young governess, and that they went
off at once to put a stop to it, but found us left with the German maid, who declared that
Miss Headworth had gone off with Mr. Egremont in the yacht.  No more was heard of my uncle
for six weeks, and when he came back there was a great row with the old General, but he absolutely
denied being married.  I am afraid that was all the old sinner wished, and they went off together
in the yacht to the West Indies, where it was burnt; but they, as you know, never came to England
again, going straight off to the Mediterranean, having their headquarters at Sorrento, and
cruising about till the General's death ten years ago.'

'Yes, I once met them at Florence, and thought them two weary pitiable men.  One looked at
the General as a curious relic of the old buck of the Regency days, and compassionated his
nephew for having had his life spoilt by dangling after the old man.  It was a warning indeed,
and I am glad you have profited by it, Mark.'

'He came back, after the old man died, to club life in London, and seldom has been near the
old place; indeed, it has been let till recently, and he wants to let it again, but it is altogether
too dilapidated for that without repairs.  So he came down to see about it, and was taken ill
there.  But to return to what my father told me. He was shocked to hear of the certificate,
for he had implicitly believed his brother's denial of the marriage, and he said Miss Headworth
was so childish and simple that she might easily have been taken in by a sham ceremony.  He
said that he now saw he had done very wrong in letting his mother-in-law take all the letters
about "that unhappy business" off his hands without looking at them, but he was much engrossed
by my mother's illness, and, as he said, it never occurred to him as a duty to trace out what
became of the poor thing, and see that she was provided for safely.  You know Mrs. Egremont
says laissez faire is our family failing, and that our first thought is how not to do it.'

'Yes, utter repudiation of such cases was the line taken by the last generation; and I am afraid
my mother would be very severe.'

'Another thing that actuated my father was the fear of getting his brother into trouble with
General Egremont, as he himself would have been the one to profit by it.  So I do not wonder
so much at his letting the whole drop without inquiry, and never even looking at the letters,
which there certainly were.  I could not get him to begin upon it with my uncle, but Mrs. Egremont
was strongly on my side in thinking that such a thing ought to be looked into, and as I had
found the paper it would be best that I should speak.  Besides that there was no enduring that
Gregorio should be pretending to hold us in terror by such hints.'

'Well, and has there been a wife and family in a cottage all this time?'

'Aunt Margaret, he has never seen or heard of her since he left her at Dieppe!  Would you believe
it, he thinks himself a victim?  He never meant more than to amuse himself with the pretty
little governess; and he took on board a Mr. and Mrs. Houghton to do propriety, shady sort
of people I imagine, but that she did not know.'

'I have heard of them,' said Lady Kirkaldy, significantly.

'She must have been a kind friend to the poor girl,' said Mark.  'On some report that Lady
de Lyonnais was coming down on her, wrathful and terrible, the poor foolish girl let herself
be persuaded to be carried off in the yacht, but there Mrs. Houghton watched over her like
a dragon.  She made them put in at some little place in Jersey, put in the banns, all unknown
to my uncle, and got them married. Each was trying to outwit the other, while Miss Headworth
herself was quite innocent and unconscious, and, I don't know whether to call it an excuse
for Uncle Alwyn or not, but to this hour he is not sure whether it was a legal marriage, and
my father believes it was not, looking on it as a youthful indiscretion.  He put her in lodgings
at Dieppe, under Mrs. Houghton's protection, while he returned home on a peremptory summons
from the General.  He found the old man in such a state of body and mind as he tries to persuade
me was an excuse for denying the whole thing, and from that time he represents himself as bound
hand and foot by the General's tyranny.  He meant to have kept the secret, given her an allowance,
and run over from time to time to see her, but he only could get there once before the voyage
to the West Indies.  The whole affair was, as he said, complicated by his debts, those debts
that the estate has never paid off.  The General probably distrusted him, for he curtailed
his allowance, and scarcely let him out of sight; and he--he submitted for the sake of his
prospects, and thinking the old man much nearer his end than he proved to be.  I declare as
I listened, it came near to hearing him say he had sold his soul to Satan!  From the day he
sailed in the Ninon he has never written, never attempted any communication with the woman
whose life he had wrecked, except one inquiry at Dieppe, and that was through Gregorio.'

'What! the valet?'

Yes.  I believe I seemed surprised at such a medium being employed, for Uncle Alwyn explained
that the man had got hold of the secret somehow--servants always know everything--and being
a foreigner he was likely to be able to trace her out.

'I daresay he profited by the knowledge to keep Alwyn in bondage during the old man's lifetime.'

'I have no doubt of it, and he expected to play the same game with me. The fellow reminds me,
whenever I look at him, of a sort of incarnate familiar demon.  When I asked my uncle whether
he could guess what had become of her, he held up his hands with a hideous French grimace.
I could have taken him by the throat.'

'Nay, one must pity him.  The morals of George IV.'s set had been handed on to him by the General,'
said Lady Kirkaldy, rejoicing in the genuine indignation of the young face, free from all taint
of vice, if somewhat rigid.  'And what now?'

'He assured me that he could make all secure to my father and me, as if that were the important
point; but finally he perceived that we had no right to stand still without endeavouring to
discover whether there be a nearer heir, and my father made him consent to my making the search,
grinning at its Quixotism all the time.'

'Have you done anything?'

'Yes.  I have been to Jersey, seen the register--July 20, 1859--and an old French-speaking
clerk, who perfectly recollected the party coming from the yacht, and spoke of her as tres
belle.  I have also ascertained that there is no doubt of the validity of the marriage. Then,
deeply mistrusting Master Gregorio, I went on to Dieppe, where I entirely failed to find any
one who knew or remembered anything about them--there is such a shifting population of English
visitors and residents, and it was so long ago.  I elicited from my uncle that she had an aunt,
he thought, of the same name as herself; but my father cannot remember who recommended her,
or anything that can be a clue. Has any one looked over my grandmother's letters?'

'I think not.  My brother spoke of keeping them till I came to London. That might give a chance,
or the Houghtons might know about her.  I think my husband could get them hunted up.  They
are sure to be at some continental resort.'

'What's that?' as a sound of singing was heard.

'"Auld Langsyne."  The natives are picnicking in the ravine below there.  They used to be rigidly
excluded, but we can't stand that; and this is the first experiment of admitting them on condition
that they don't make themselves obnoxious.'

'Which they can't help.'

'We have yet to see if this is worse than an Austrian or Italian festival.  See, we can look
down from behind this yew tree.  It really is a pretty sight from this distance.'

'There's the cleric heading his little boys and their cricket, and there are the tuneful party
in the fern on the opposite side.  They have rather good voices, unless they gain by distance.'

'And there's a girl botanising by the river.'

'Sentimentalising over forget-me-nots, more likely.'

'My dear Mark, for a specimen of young England, you are greatly behindhand in perception of
progress!'

'Ah! you are used to foreigners, Aunt Margaret.  You have never fathomed English vulgarity.'

'It would serve you right to send you to carry the invitation to go round the gardens and houses.'

'Do you mean it, aunt?'

'Mean it?  Don't you see your uncle advancing down the road--there--accosting the clergyman--what's
his name--either Towers or Spires--something ecclesiastical I know.  We only waited to reconnoitre
and see whether the numbers were unmanageable.'

'And yet he does not want to sit for Micklethwayte?'

'So you think no one can be neighbourly except for electioneering! O Mark, I must take you
in hand.'

'Meantime the host is collecting.  I abscond.  Which is the least showy part of the establishment?'

'I recommend the coal cellar--'and, as he went off--'poor boy, he is a dear good fellow, but
how little he knows how to be laughed at!'

CHAPTER IV.

A NAME.

  'Sigh no more lady, lady sigh no more,
    Men were deceivers ever,
  One foot on sea and one on land--
    To one thing constant never.'--Old Ballad.

'So you have ventured out again,' said Lady Kirkaldy, as her nephew strolled up to her afternoon
tea-table under a great cedar tree:

'The coast being clear, and only distant shouts being heard in the ravine--

          '"Like an army defeated
            The choir retreated;
            And now doth fare well
            In the valley's soft swell,"'

said the aunt.

'At least you have survived; or is this the reaction,' said the nephew, putting on a languid air.

'There were some very nice people among them, on whom the pictures were by no means thrown
away.  What would you say, Mark, if I told you that I strongly suspect that I have seen your
lost aunt?'

'Nonsense!' cried Mark, as emphatically as disrespectfully.

'I am not joking in the least,' said Lady Kirkaldy, looking up at him. 'I heard the name of
Egremont, and made out that it belonged to a very lady-like pretty-looking woman in gray and
white; she seemed to be trying to check and tame a bright girl of eighteen or so, who was in
a perfect state of rapture over the Vandykes.  I managed to ask the clergyman who the lady
was, and he told me she was a Mrs. Egremont, who lives with her aunt, a Miss Headworth, who
boards girls for the High School; very worthy people, he added.'

'Headworth?'

'Yes.'

'But if it were, she would have known your name.'

'Hardly.  The title had not come in those days; and if she heard of us at all it would be as
Kerrs.  I ventured further to put out a feeler by asking whether he knew what her husband had
been, and he said he believed he had been lost at sea, but he, Mr. Spyers I mean, had only
been at Micklethwayte three or four years, and had merely known her as a widow.'

'I suppose it is worth following up,' said Mark, rather reluctantly. 'I wish I had seen her.
I think I should know Miss Headworth again, and she would hardly know me.'

'You see what comes of absconding.'

'After all, it was best,' said Mark.  'Supposing her to be the real woman, which I don't expect,
it might have been awkward if she had heard my name!  How can we ascertain the history of this
person without committing ourselves?'

Lord Kirkaldy, an able man, who had been for many years a diplomatist, here joined the party,
and the whole story was laid before him.  He was new to Micklethwayte, having succeeded a somewhat
distant kinsman, and did not know enough of the place to be able to fix on any one to whom
to apply for information; but the result of the consultation was that Lady Kirkaldy should
go alone to call on Miss Headworth, and explain that she was come to inquire about a young
lady of the same name, who had once been governess to the children of her sister, Lady Adelaide
Egremont.  Mark was rather a study to his uncle and aunt all the evening.  He was as upright
and honourable as the day, and not only acted on high principle, but had a tender feeling to
the beautiful playfellow governess, no doubt enhanced by painful experiences of successors
chosen for their utter dissimilarity to her.  Still it was evidently rather flat to find himself
probably so near the tangible goal of his romantic search; and the existence of a first cousin
had been startling to him, though his distaste was more to the taking her from second-rate
folk in a country town than to the overthrow of his own heirship.  At least so he manifestly
and honestly believed, and knowing it to be one of those faiths that make themselves facts,
the Kirkaldys did not disturb him in it, nor commiserate him for a loss which they thought
the best thing possible for him.

Miss Headworth was accustomed to receive visitors anent boarders, so when Lady Kirkaldy's card
was brought to her, the first impression was that some such arrangement was to be made.  She
was sitting in her pretty little drawing-room alone, for Nuttie and her mother had gone out
for a walk with Miss Nugent.

The room, opening on the garden, and cool with blinds, had a certain homely grace about the
faded furniture.  The drawings on the walls were good, the work quaint and tasteful.  There
was a grand vase of foxgloves before the empty grate, and some Marshal Nial roses in a glass
on the table.  The old lady herself--with alert black eyes and a sweet expression--rose from
her chair in the window to receive her guest.

Lady Kirkaldy felt reassured as to the refinement of the surroundings, and liked the gentle
but self-possessed tones of the old lady.  She noticed the foxgloves.

'Yes,' said Miss Headworth, 'they are the fruits of yesterday's expedition.  My two children,
as I call them, brought them home in triumph.  I cannot tell you what pleasure Lord Kirkaldy's
kindness gave them--and many more.'

'I am glad,' said the lady, while she said to herself, 'now for it,' and sat forward.  'It
struck me,' she said, 'on hearing your name that you might be related to--to a young lady who
lived a good while ago in the family of my sister, Lady Adelaide Egremont.'

A strange look came into Miss Headworth's eyes, her lips trembled, she clutched tightly the
arm of her chair, but then cast a puzzled glance at her visitor.

'Perhaps if you heard of me then,' said the latter, 'it was as Lady Margaret Kerr.'

'Yes,' said Miss Headworth, then pausing, she collected herself and said in an anxious voice,
'Do I understand that your ladyship is come to inquire for my niece, being aware of the circumstances.'

'I only became aware of them yesterday,' said Lady Kirkaldy.  'I was in Turkey at the time,
and no particulars were given to me; but my nephew, Mark Egremont, your niece's old pupil,
came to consult us, having just discovered among his uncle's papers evidence of the marriage,
of which of course he had been ignorant.'

'Then,' exclaimed Miss Headworth, holding her hands tightly clasped, 'Shall I really see justice
done at last to my poor child?'

'It is young Mark's most earnest wish and his father--'Lady Kirkaldy hesitated for a word,
and Miss Headworth put in:

'His father!  Why would he never even acknowledge either Alice's letters or mine?  We wrote
several times both to him and Lady Adelaide, and never received any reply, except one short
one, desiring he might not be troubled on such a subject.  It was cruel! Alice said it was
not in his writing.  She had done very wrong, and the family might well be offended, but a
poor child like her, just eighteen, might have been treated with some pity.'

'My sister was in declining health.  He was very much engrossed.  He left the matter to--to
others,' said Lady Kirkaldy.  'He is very sorry now that he acquiesced in what was then thought
right.  He did not then know that there had been a marriage.'

'I should have thought in that case a clergyman would have been bound to show the more compassion.'

Lady Kirkaldy knew that the cruel silence had been chiefly the work of the stem Puritan pitilessness
of her mother, so she passed this over, saying, 'We are all very anxious to atone, as far as
possible, for what is past, but we know little or nothing, only what my nephew Mark has been
able to gather.'

'Little Mark!  Alice always talked of him with great affection.  How pleased she will be to
hear of his remembering her.'

'Would you object to telling me what you know of this history?' said Lady Kirkaldy.  'I am
afraid it is very painful to you, but I think we should understand it clearly.  Please speak
to me as a friend, as woman to woman.'

'Your ladyship is very kind,' said the poor old lady.  'I have only mentioned the subject once
since we came to settle here, seventeen years ago, but such things one cannot forget.  If you
will excuse me, I have some dates that will assist my accuracy.'

She hurried away, and came back in a few moments, having evidently dried some tears, perhaps
of thankfulness, but she paused as if reluctant to begin.

'I think your niece had no nearer relation than yourself,' said Lady Kirkaldy, anxious to set
her off and at ease.

'Oh no, or she never would have been so treated.  She was an orphan. My poor brother was a
curate.  He married--as young men will--on insufficient means, his strength gave way, and he
died of diphtheria when this poor child was only two years old.  Indeed, two little ones died
at the same time, and the mother married again and went to Shanghai.  She did not long live
there, poor thing, and little Alice was sent home to me.  I thought I did my best for her by
keeping her at a good school.  I have often wished that I had given up my situation, and become
an assistant there, so as to have her more under my own eyes; but I fancied it important to
receive a salary out of which I could save.  I am wearying your ladyship, but I can't but dwell
on the excuses for my poor child.'

'Indeed I wish to hear all the details,' was the sincere and gentle answer.

'I had her with me generally in the holidays, and I confess I was absolutely alarmed to see
how pretty the child was growing, knowing how great a disadvantage it often is.  She was always
a good girl, not naturally so studious as could be wished, but docile, merry, gentle, a favourite
with every one, and peculiarly innocent and childish.  I wished her to remain a few years longer
as teacher, but it so happened that Lady Adelaide Egremont, coming to consult the head of the
establishment about a nursery-governess, saw Alice, and was so much struck with her sweet face,
which was all sunshine then, as to insist on engaging her.'

'Ah! my dear sister, I remember her enthusiastic letter about her pretty governess, and her
boy's affection for her, an affection that has lasted--'

'It seemed so safe.  A clergyman's family in the country, and so kind a lady at the head, that,
though Alice had been educated for a superior governess, it appeared the best beginning she
could have. And she was very happy, and met with great kindness.  Only, unfortunately, Lady
Adelaide was delicate, and for many weeks entirely confined to the sofa.  Mr. Egremont's elder
brother was much there.  He seemed to my poor inexperienced child quite elderly, and his attentions
like those of--of an old uncle--she told me afterwards--'

'He must really have been over forty--'

'No doubt my poor Alice was unguarded.  We know what a merry, happy, childish girl may be,
but I never heard that her conduct was even censured while she remained at Baxley, though I
find that Captain Egremont used to join them in their walks, under pretext of playing with
the children.  Then she was sent to Freshwater with the two eldest children during Lady Adelaide's
confinement, and there, most unjustifiably, Captain Egremont continually visited them from
his yacht, and offered to take them out in it.  Alice knew she ought not to go without a married
lady on board, and he brought a Mr. and Mrs. Houghton to call, who were very kind and caressing
to her and the children, so that she thought all was right.  Oh! Lady Kirkaldy, I don't mean
to defend her, I daresay she was very giddy and silly, she reproaches herself, poor dear, but
I do say that a wicked advantage was taken of her innocence and ignorance.  She says that she
had begun to grow a little uneasy at the way people looked when Captain Egremont joined them
on the beach; and the nurse, a German, said something that she could not understand.  On the
1st of July--yes--but I have the date here--came a telegram to the hotel to have rooms for
Lady de Lyonnais and Mr. Egremont ready by the evening.  The whole place knew it, and some
meddling person burst on Alice with the news, roughly and coarsely given, that they were coming
to call her to account for her goings on. Captain Egremont found her crying in the utmost terror,
and--she really hardly knew what he said to her--she thinks he offered to shelter her on board
the Ninon, from Lady de Lyonnais' first wrath while he and Mrs. Houghton explained matters;
but she cannot tell, for she lost her senses with fright, only knew that he was kind and sweet
to her in her distress, and thought only of escaping.  Well, I don't excuse her.  Of course
it was the most terrible and fatal thing she could have done, and--' The good old lady was
quite overcome, and Lady Kirkaldy had tears in her eyes as she said,

'It was frightful folly--but she was guarded.'

'Yes, her innocence was guarded, thank God,' said Miss Headworth fervently.  'You see she did
know that Mr. and Mrs. Houghton were on board, and Mrs. Houghton was a truly kind protector
who deserved her confidence, though, poor lady, she admitted to me that her own conduct had
not been-strictly correct.'

'How long was it before you heard of her?'

'There was a dreadful letter from Mr. Egremont enclosing what was due of her salary, and then
I heard no more for seven months.  I went to the Isle of Wight and made all inquiries, but
the nurse and children had gone away immediately, and I could obtain no trace of them.'

'Then she--your niece, never wrote.'

'She was afraid, poor dear.  She had never been at her ease with me. Her mother had taught
her to think me strict and harsh, and she had never opened to me in those days.  Besides, he
had forbidden her.  At last, however, in January, came a letter from this Mrs. Houghton, telling
me that my Alice was very unwell at Dieppe, that nothing had been heard of her husband, Captain
Egremont, to whom she had been married on the 20th of July at St. Philippe, in Jersey, and
that she herself was obliged to leave the place almost immediately; but she would, if possible,
wait till my arrival, as Mrs. Egremont was not in a condition to be left alone.  My dear friends,
with whom I was then living, were as kind as possible, and set me free to go.  I was there
in three days, and truly the dear, beautiful, merry girl I had parted with only a year before
was a sad piteous sight.  Mrs. Houghton seemed broken-hearted at leaving her, thinking there
was little chance of her living; but Mr. Houghton, who, I am afraid, was a professed gambler,
had got into some scrape, and was gone to Paris, where she had to follow him.  She told me
all about it, and how, when Captain Egremont fancied that a marriage in the Channel Islands
was one he could play fast and loose with, she had taken care that the formalities should be
such as to make all secure.  Foolish and wrong as poor Alice had been, she had awakened all
the best side of that poor woman's nature, and no mother could have been more careful and tender.
She gave me the certificate--here it is--and assured me that it would hold good.  I have shown
it to a lawyer, and he said the same; but when I sent a copy to Mr. Egremont, my letter was
returned unopened.'

'Captain Egremont had denied the marriage, and they believed him,' said Lady Kirkaldy.  'It
is hard to believe that he could be so heartless, but he was in bondage to the old General
Egremont, and dreaded losing his inheritance.'

'So he told them in his one visit to Dieppe.  He said he must keep his marriage secret, but
promised an allowance, on condition that Alice would live quietly at Dieppe, and not communicate
with any one of her own family or his.  He had left £100 with her, but that was nearly gone,
and she had never heard from him.  It had preyed on her, and she was so ill that I never expected,
any more than Mrs. Houghton, to see her recover.  I stayed there with her; she could not be
moved, even if she would have consented, when she was continually expecting him; but at last--four
days after her little girl was born--came the news of the Ninon having been burnt, with all
on board, three months before.  Do you know, strange to say, though I had feared so much to
tell her, she began to revive from that time.  The suspense and watching were over. She saw
that he had not deserted her, and believed that he had loved her to the last.  She cried a
great deal, but it was in a peaceful, natural way.  I wrote then, as I had already written,
to Lady Adelaide and to Mr. Egremont, but was not answered.'

'I can account for that,' said Lady Kirkaldy.  'My sister had been ordered to Madeira in the
autumn, and there they remained till her death in May.  All the letters were sent to my mother,
and she did not think fit to forward, or open, any bearing on the subject.  In the meantime
Mr. Egremont was presented to the family living, and on his return moved to Bridgefield Egremont.
And you came here?'

'Of course I could not part with my poor Alice again.  Mr. and Mrs. Fordyce, whose daughter
I had long ago educated, had always kept up a correspondence with me, and, knowing all the
story, proposed to me to come here.  He was then rector of the old church, and by their help
and recommendation, with such capital as I had, we were able to begin a little school; and
though that has had to give way to the High School, what with boarders, and with Alice's employment
as daily governess, we have, I am thankful to say, gone on very well and comfortably, and my
dear child has recovered her cheerfulness, though she can never be quite what--I think she
was meant to be,' said the old lady, with a sad smile, 'though perhaps she is something better.'

'Do you think she was absolutely convinced of his death?'

'Do you mean that he is alive?' exclaimed Miss Headworth in dismay. 'Oh! he is a wickeder man
than even I supposed, to have forsaken her all these years.  Is my poor child in his power?
Must her peace, now she has attained it, be disturbed?'

'There is a great deal to take into consideration,' said Lady Kirkaldy. 'I had better tell
you how this visit of mine came about, and explain some matters about the Egremont family.'

She then told how Captain Egremont, after a brief service in the Life Guards, had been made
to retire, that the old General, whose heir he was, might keep him in attendance on him.  Already
self-indulgent and extravagant, the idleness of the life he led with the worn-out old roue
had deadened his better feelings, and habituated him to dissipation, while his debts, his expensive
habits, and his dread of losing the inheritance, had bound him over to the General.  Both had
been saved from the fire in the Ninon, whence they were picked up by a Chilian vessel, and
they had been long in communicating with home. The General hated England, and was in broken
health.  He had spent the remaining years of his life at various continental resorts, where
he could enjoy a warm climate, combined with facilities for high play.

When at length, he died, Captain Egremont had continued the life to which he had become accustomed,
and had of late manifested an expectation that his nephew Mark should play the same part by
him as he had done by the General, but the youth, bred in a very different tone, would on no
account thus surrender himself to an evil bondage. Indeed he felt all the severity of youthful
virtue, and had little toleration for his uncle's ways of thinking; though, when the old man
had come home ill, dejected, and half blind, he had allowed himself to be made useful on business
matters.  And thus he had discovered the marriage, and had taken up the cause with the ardour
stimulated by a chivalrous feeling for the beautiful vision of his childhood, whose sudden
disappearance had ended his brightest days.

'I suppose it is right and generous of the young man,' said Miss Headworth.  'But since the--the
man is alive, I wish my poor Alice could have been left at peace!'

'You forget that her daughter has rights which must be taken into consideration.'

'Little Nuttie!  Dear child!  I should so far like her to be provided for, so far as that she
need not go out in the world to earn her own livelihood.  But no! better be as we are than
accept anything from that man!'

'I quite understand and respect your feeling, Miss Headworth,' returned the lady; 'but may
I return to my question whether you think your niece has any doubt of her husband being dead.'

Miss Headworth considered.  'Since you ask me, I think she has kept the possibility of the
life before her.  We have never mentioned the subject, and, as I said, the belief in his death
ended a great suspense and sense of wounded affection.  She began soon and vigorously to turn
her attention to the support of her child, and has found a fair measure of happiness; but at
the same time she has shrunk from all notice and society, more than would be natural in so
very young a widow and so attractive, more than I should have expected from her original character.
And once, when she did apprehend symptoms of admiration, she insisted that I should tell the
history, enough, as she said, to make it plain that it was impossible.  There was one night
too, when she had scarlatina, and was a little lightheaded, only four years ago, when she talked
a good deal about his coming back; but that might have been only the old impression on her
brain, of that long watching at Dieppe.  He--Captain Egremont, does not yet know where she is?'

'No, certainly not.  But I fear he must.'

'I suppose he ought,' sighed Miss Headworth; 'but in the meantime, till we know what line he
takes, surely she need not be unsettled by the knowledge of his existence.'

'By no means.  You had better act as you think best about that.  But you will not object to
my nephew, her old pupil, Mark, coming to see her?  I will make him promise not to enter upon
the subject.'

Miss Headworth had only time to make a sign of reluctant acquiescence when the door opened
and mother and daughter came in.  Nuttie first, eager as usual and open-mouthed, unaware that
any one was there, for Lady Kirkaldy, wishing to avoid talk and observation, had left her carriage
at the livery stables, and walked to St. Ambrose Road.  The girl, whom in a moment she classed
as small, dark, and oddly like May Egremont, stopped short at sight of a stranger; the mother
would have retreated but for Miss Headworth's nervous call 'Alice, my dear, here is Lady Kirkaldy.'

Very lovely was Lady Kirkaldy's impression as she saw a slender figure in a dark gray linen
dress, and a face of refined, though not intellectual, beauty and sweetness, under a large
straw hat with a good deal of white gauziness about it, and the curtsey was full of natural grace.

'You do not know me,' said Lady Kirkaldy, taking her hand, 'but I am aunt to some former pupils
of yours, one of whom, Mark Egremont, is very anxious to come and see you.'

'Mark!  My dear little Mark,' and her face lighted up.  'How very kind of him.  But he is not
little Mark now.'

'He is not a very big Mark either.  Most of the Egremonts are small. I see your daughter takes
after them,' said Lady Kirkaldy, shaking hands with Ursula, who looked at her in unmitigated
amazement.

Alice faltered something about Lady Adelaide.

'My dear sister fell into a decline, and died while the three children were still babies. 
Poor things, I believe they had a sad time till their father married a Miss Condamine, who
has been an excellent stepmother to them.  I have been to see them, but Mark was not then at
home, so he has come to me at Monks Horton.  When will he find you at home?  Or may I bring
him in at once.  He was to meet me at Micklethwayte.'

'I should like very much to see him,' was the answer.  And Miss Headworth was obliged to say
something about her ladyship taking a cup of tea.  Lady Kirkaldy, knowing that Mark was on
the watch, set off in search of him, and found him, as she expected, pacing the pavement in
front of the church.  There was no great distance in which to utter her explanations and cautions,
warning him of her promise that the intelligence of the husband's being alive was to be withheld
for a fitter time, but he promised dutifully, and his aunt then took him in with her.

The recognition of her claims was a less stunning shock to Alice Egremont than to her aunt.
Shielded by her illness, as well as by her simplicity and ignorance, she had never been aware
of her aunt's attempted correspondence with the Egremonts, nor of their deafness to appeals
made on her behalf.  Far less had it ever occurred to her that the validity of her marriage
could be denied, and the heinous error of her elopement seemed to her quite sufficient to account
for her having been so entirely cast off by the family.  The idea that as wife or widow she
had any claims on them, or that Ursula might have rights above those of Mark, had not come
into her mind, which, indeed, at the moment was chiefly occupied by the doubt whether the milk
was come in, and by ordering in the best teacups, presented by the boarders.

Thus she was in the passage when Mark entered, and his exclamation instantly was 'Oh, Edda,
dear old Edda!  You aren't a bit altered!' and he put his head under her hat and kissed her,
adding, as she seemed rather startled, 'You are my aunt, you know; and where's my cousin? You
are Ursula?'

He advanced upon Nuttie, took her by the hand and kissed her forehead before she was aware,
but she flashed at him with her black eyes, and looked stiff and defiant.  She had no notion
of kisses to herself, still less to her pretty mother whom she protected with a half proud,
half jealous fondness.  How could the man presume to call her by that foolish name?  However,
that single effusion had exhausted Mark's powers of cordiality, or else Nuttie's stiffness
froze him.  They were all embarrassed, and had reason to be grateful to Lady Kirkaldy's practised
powers as a diplomate's wife.  She made the most of Mrs. Egremont's shy spasmodic inquiries,
and Mark's jerks of information, such as that they were all living at Bridgefield Egremont,
now, that his sister May was very like his new cousin, that Blanche was come out and was very
like his mother, etc. etc.  Every one was more at ease when Lady Kirkaldy carried the conversation
off to yesterday's entertainment, hoping no one had been overtired, and the like.  Mrs. Egremont
lighted up a little and began telling some of the expressions of delight she had heard, and
in the midst, Nuttie, waking from her trance of stiff displeasure, came plump in with 'Oh!
and there's a water-soldier, a real Stratiotes aculeatus in your lake.  May we get it?  Mr.
Dutton didn't think we ought, but it would be such a prize!'

'Ursula means a rare water-plant,' said Mrs. Egremont gently, seeing that Lady Kirkaldy had
no notion of the treasure she possessed.  'She and some of her friends are very eager botanists.'

'I am sure you may,' said the lady, amused.

'Thank you!  Then, O mother!  Miss Mary and I will go.  And we'll wait till after office hours,
and then Gerard Godfrey can come and fish it out for us!  Oh, thank you.  He wants the pattern
of the Abbot's cross for an illumination, and he can get some ferns for the church.'

Soon after this ebullition, Lady Kirkaldy carried off her nephew, and his first utterance outside
the door was 'A woman like that will be the salvation of my uncle.'

'Firstly, if you can bring them together,' said his aunt; 'and secondly, if there is stuff
enough in that pretty creature.'

CHAPTER V.

SUSPENSE.

  'Where shall the traitor rest
  He, the deceiver?'--SCOTT.

Poor Miss Headworth's peace of mind was utterly destroyed.  That the niece whom she had nursed
back to life and happiness, and brought to love her as a mother, should be at the mercy of
a man whom she looked on as a heartless profligate, was dreadful to her beyond measure. And
it involved Ursula's young life likewise?  Could it be a duty, after these eighteen years,
to return to him?  What legal rights had he to enforce the resumption of the wife he had deserted.
'I will consult Mr. Dutton,' said the old lady to herself; 'Mr. Dutton is the only person who
knows the particulars.  He will give me the best advice.'

And while Miss Headworth, over her evening toilette, was coming to this resolution in one bedroom,
Nuttie, in another, was standing aghast at her mother's agitation, and receiving a confession
which filled her with astonishment.

'I can't think why that gentleman should go and be so affectionate all on a sudden, 'quoth
Nuttie;' if he is my cousin, and so fond of you, why couldn't he have come to see us before?'

'Oh, Nuttie, dear, you don't understand why it is so good of him!  My dear, now this has come,
I must tell you--you must hear--the sad thing your mother did.  Yes, my dear, I was their governess--and--and
I did not--In short, my dear, I eloped.'

'You, mother!  Oh what fun!' cried the girl in the utter extremity of wonder.

'Nuttie!' exclaimed Mrs. Egremont, in a tone of horror and indignation--nay, of apprehension.

'O mother--I didn't mean that!  But I can't get to believe it.  You, little mother mine, you
that are so timid and bashful and quiet. That you--you should have done such a thing.'

'Nuttie, my dear, can't you understand that such a thing would make me quiet?  I am always
feeling when I see people, or they bring their daughters here.  "If they only knew--"'

'No, no, no!  They would still see you were the sweetest dear.  But tell me all about it. 
How very much in love you must have been!' said Nuttie, a magnificent vision of a young sailor
with curly hair and open throat rising before her.

'I think I was more frightened than in love,' faintly said Mrs. Egremont.  'At least I didn't
know it was love, I thought he was only kind to me.'

'But you liked it?' said Ursula magisterially.

'I liked it, oh, I liked it!  It gave me a feeling such as nothing else ever did, but I never
thought of its being love, he was so much older.'

'Older!' exclaimed Nuttie, much taken aback.  'Oh! as old as Mr. Dutton?'

'Mr. Dutton is thirty-six, I think.  Yes, he was older than that.'

'Mother, how could you?'  For to be older than Mr. Dutton seemed to the youthful fancy to be
near decrepitude; but she added, 'I suppose he was very noble, and had done great things.'

'He was the grandest gentleman I ever saw, and had such, a manner,' said the mother, passing
over the latter suggestion.  'Anyway, I never thought what it all meant--all alone with the
children as I was--till I found people looking at me, and laughing at me, and then I heard
Lady de Lyonnais and Mr. Egremont were coming down, very angry, to send me away.  I ought,
I know it now, to have waited, for they would have written to my aunt.  But I was horribly
frightened, and I couldn't bear to think of never seeing him again, and he came and comforted
me, and said he would take me to Mrs. Houghton, the kind lady who was staying in the Ninon,
and they would make it all square for me--and then--oh! it was very sweet--but I never knew
that we were sailing away to Jersey to be married!  I knew it was very dreadful without any
one's leave, but it was so noble of him to take the poor little governess and defend her, and
it wasn't as if my mother had been alive.  I didn't know Aunt Ursel then as I did afterwards.
And Mrs. Houghton said there was nothing else to be done.'

'O don't leave off, mother.  Do tell me.  How long did you have him?'

'Six weeks then--and afterwards one fortnight at Dieppe.  He was not free.  He had an old uncle,
General Egremont, who was sick and hot-tempered, and he was obliged to keep everything secret
from him, and therefore from everybody else.  And so I was to live at Dieppe, while he went
out to take care of his uncle, and you know--you know--'

'Yes, I know, dear mother.  But I am sure he was saving somebody else, and it was a noble death!
And I know how Aunt Ursel came to Dieppe, and how I--your own little Frenchwoman--came to take
care of you.  And haven't we been jolly without any of these fine relations that never looked
after you all this time?  Besides, you know he is very likely to be on a lonely coral island,
and will come home yet. I often think he is.'

'My dear child, I have been happier than I deserved,' said Alice Egremont, drying her eyes.
'But oh! Nuttie, I hope you will be a wiser woman than your mother.'

'Come, don't go on in that way!  Why, I've such advantages!  I've Miss Mary, and Aunt Ursel,
and Mr. Spyers, and Mr. Dutton, and you, you poor little thing, had nobody!  One good thing
is, we shall get the water-soldier.  Mr. Dutton needn't come, for he's like a cat, and won't
soil his boots, but Gerard is dying to get another look at the old ruin.  He can't make up
his mind about the cross on one of the stone-coffin lids, so he'll be delighted to come, and
he'll get it out of the pond for us.  I wonder when we can go.  To-night is choir practice,
and to-morrow is cutting-out day.'

Miss Headworth was not sorry that the small sociabilities of the friends did not leave her
alone with her niece all that evening, or the next day, when there was a grand cutting-out
for the working party,--an operation always performed in the holidays.  Miss Headworth had
of late years been excused from it, and it gave her the opportunity she wanted of a consultation
with Mr. Dutton.  He was her prime adviser in everything, from her investments (such as they
were) to the eccentricities of her timepieces; and as the cuckoo-clock had that night cuckooed
all the hours round in succession, no one thought it wonderful that she should send a twisted
note entreating him to call as early as he could in the afternoon.  Of course Nuttie's chatter
had proclaimed the extraordinary visitors, and it needed not the old lady's dash under "on
an anxious affair" to bring him to her little drawing-room as soon as he could quit his desk.
Perhaps he hastened his work with a hope in his heart which he durst not express, but the agitation
on the usually placid face forbade him to entertain it for an instant, and he only said, 'So
our expedition has led to unforeseen consequences, Miss Headworth.'  And then she answered
under her breath, as if afraid of being overheard: 'Mr. Dutton, my poor child does not know
it yet, but the man is alive!'

Mr. Dutton compressed his lips.  It was the greater shock, for he had actually made inquiries
at the Yacht Club, but the officials there either had not been made aware of the reappearance
of the two Egremonts, or they did not think it worth while to look beyond the record which
declared that all hands had perished, and the connection of the uncle and nephew with the Yacht
Club had not been renewed. Presently he said, 'Then hers was a right instinct.  There is reason
to be thankful.'

Miss Headworth was too full of her own anxieties to heed his causes for thankfulness.  She
told what she had heard from Lady Kirkaldy and from Mark Egremont, and asked counsel whether
it could be Alice's duty to return to the man who had deserted her, or even to accept anything
from him.  There was an impetuous and indignant spirit at the bottom of the old lady's heart,
in spite of the subdued life she had led for so many years, and she hardly brooked the measured
considerate manner in which her adviser declared that all depended on circumstances, and the
manner in which Captain Egremont made the first move.  At present no one was acting but young
Mark, and, as Mr. Dutton observed, it was not a matter in which a man was very likely to submit
to a nephew's dictation.

There was certainly no need for Mrs. Egremont to force her presence on him.  But Mr. Dutton
did think that for her own sake and her child's there ought to be full recognition of their
rights, and that this should be proved by their maintenance.

'I imagine that Ursula may probably be a considerable heiress, and her lights must not be sacrificed.'

'Poor little girl!  Will it be for her happiness?  I doubt it greatly!'

'Of that I suppose we have no right to judge,' said Mr. Dutton, somewhat tremulously. 'Justice
is what we have to look to, and to allow Nuttie to be passed over would be permitting a slur
to be cast on her and her mother.'

'I see that,' said Miss Headworth, with an effort.  'I suppose I am after all a selfish, faithless
old woman, and it is not in my hands after all.  But I must prepare my poor Alice for what
may be coming.'

'If any terms are offered to her, she had better put the matter into a lawyer's hands.  Dobson
would be a safe man to deal with.'

Miss Headworth was amazed that he--who had helped her in many a little question bordering on
law--should not proffer his aid now in this greatest stress.  He was a resolute, self-controlled
man, and she never guessed at the feeling that made him judge himself to be no fitting champion
for Alice Egremont against her husband.  Ever since, ten years ago, he had learnt that his
beautiful neighbour did not regard herself so certainly a widow as to venture to open her heart
to any other love, he had lived patiently on, content to serve her as a trustworthy friend,
and never betraying the secret hope so long cherished and now entirely crushed.

He was relieved to escape from the interview, and the poor old lady remained a little more
certain as to her duty perhaps, but with a certainty that only made her more unhappy, and she
was so restless and nervous that, in the middle of the evening's reading of Archbishop Trench's
Lectures on History, Alice suddenly broke off in the very middle of a sentence and exclaimed,
'Aunt Ursel! you are keeping something from me.'

Miss Headworth made a faint attempt by saying something about presently, and glancing with
her eyes to indicate that it was to be reserved till after Nuttie's bedtime, but the young
lady comprehended the signs and exclaimed, 'Never mind me, Aunt Ursel,--I know all about mother;
she told me last night.'

'It is!' broke in Mrs. Egremont, who had been watching her aunt's face. 'You have heard of him.'

'Oh, my father!  You really have!' cried Nuttie.  'Then he really was on the desert island
all this time; I was quite sure of it.  How delightful!'  She jumped up and looked at the door,
as if she expected to see him appear that instant, clad in skins like Robinson Crusoe, but
her aunt's nervous agitation found vent in a sharp reproof: 'Nuttie, hold your tongue, and
don't be such a foolish child, or I shall send you out of the room this instant!'

'But aunt?' gasped Alice, unable to bear the suspense.

'Yes, my poor dear child.  Captain Egremont with the General got off with some of the crew
in a boat when the Ninon was burnt.  He spent a good many years abroad with the old man, but
he has now inherited the family place, and is living there.'  Miss Headworth felt as if she
had fired a cannon and looked to see the effect.

'Ah, if we could have stayed at Dieppe!' said Mrs. Egremont.  'But we did write back to say
where we could be heard of.'

'That was of no use.  Mark found no traces of us when he went thither.'

'Did he send Mark?'

'No.  My dear Alice, I must not conceal from you that this is all Mr. Mark Egremont's doing.
He seems to have been helping his uncle with his papers when he came on the evidence of your
marriage, and, remembering you as he does, he forced the confession of it from the captain,
and of his own accord set forth to discover what had become of you and to see justice done to you.'

'Dear little Mark!' said she; 'he always was such an affectionate little boy.'

'And now, my dear, you must consider how you will receive any advances on his part.'

'Oh, Aunt Ursel, don't!  I can't talk now.  Please let me go to bed. Nuttie, dear, you need
not come yet.'

The desire for solitude, in which to realise what she had heard, was overpowering, and she
fled away in the summer twilight, leaving Nuttie with wide open eyes, looking after her vanished
hero and desert island.

'My poor Alice!' sighed the old lady.

'Aunt Ursel!' exclaimed Nuttie, 'was--I mean--is my father a good or a bad man?'

'My dear, should a daughter ask such a question?'

'Aunt Ursel, I can't help it.  I think I ought to know all about it,' said Nuttie gravely,
putting away her childishness and sitting down by her aunt.  'I did not think so much of it
when mother told me they eloped, because, though I know it was very wrong, people do do odd
things sometimes when they are very much in love (she said it in a superior patronising tone
that would have amused Miss Headworth very much at any other time); and it has not spoilt mother
for being the dearest, sweetest, best thing in the world, and, besides, they had neither of
them any fathers or mothers to disobey.  But, then, when I found he was so old, and that he
kept it a secret, and must have told stories only for the sake of money (uttered with extreme
contempt), I didn't like it.  And if he left her as Theseus left Ariadne, or Sir Lancelot left
Elaine, I--I don't think it is nice.  Do you think he only pretended to be lost in the Ninon
to get rid of her, or that he could not find her?'

'The Ninon was really reported lost with all on board,' said Miss Headworth.  'That was ascertained.
He was saved by a Chilian ship, and seems to have been a good while making his way back to
Europe.  I had taken care that our address should be known at Dieppe, but it is quite possible
that he may not have applied to the right people, or that they may not have preserved my letter,
so that we cannot feel sore that he was to blame.'

'If he had been worth anything at all, he would have moved heaven and earth to find her!' cried
Nuttie; 'and you said yourself it was all that Mark's doing!'

'He seems to be a very upright and generous young man, that Mr. Mark Egremont,' said Miss Headworth,
a whole romance as to Nuttie's future destiny sweeping across her mind in an instant, with
a mental dispensation to first cousins in such a case.  'I think you will find him a staunch
champion even against his own interests.'

Perceptions came across Nuttie.  'Oh, then I am a sort of lost heiress, like people in a story!
I see!  But, Aunt Ursel, what do you think will happen?'

'My dear child, I cannot guess in the least.  Perhaps the Egremont property will not concern
you, and only go to male heirs.  That would be the best thing, since in any case you must be
sufficiently provided for.  Your father must do that.'

'But about mother?'

'A proper provision must be insisted on for her,' said Miss Headworth. 'It is no use, however,
to speculate on the future.  We cannot guess how Mr. Mark Egremont's communication will be
received, or whether any wish will be expressed for your mother's rejoining your father.  In
such a case the terms must be distinctly understood, and I have full trust both in Mr. Mark
and in Lady Kirkaldy as her champions to see that justice is done to you both.'

'I'm sure he doesn't deserve that mother should go to him.'

'Nor do I expect that he will wish it, or that it would be proper; but he is bound to give
her a handsome maintenance, and I think most probably you will be asked to stay with your uncle
and cousins,' said Miss Headworth, figuring to herself a kind of Newstead Abbey or some such
scene of constant orgies at Bridgefield Egremont.

'I shall accept nothing from the family that does not include mother,' said Nuttie.

'Dear child, I foresee many trials, but you must be her protector.'

'That I will,' said Nuttie; and in the gallant purpose she went to bed, to find her mother
either asleep or feigning slumber with tears on her cheek.

CHAPTER VI.

THE WATER-SOLDIER.

  'Presumptuous maid, with looks intent,
  Again she stretched, again she bent,
  Nor knew the gulf between.'--GRAY.

It all seemed like a dream to Ursula, perhaps likewise to her mother, when they rose to the
routine of daily life with the ordinary interests of the day before them.  There was a latent
unwillingness in Mrs. Egremont's mind to discuss the subject with either aunt or daughter;
and when the post brought no letter, Ursula, after a moment's sense of flatness, was relieved,
and returned to her eager desire to hurry after the water-soldier.  It was feasible that very
afternoon.  Mary Nugent came in with the intelligence.

'And can Gerard come? or we shall only look at it.'

'Yes, Gerard can come, and so will Mr. Dutton,' said Mary, who, standing about half-way between
Mrs. Egremont and her daughter, did not think herself quite a sufficient chaperon.

'He will look on like a hen at her ducklings,' said Nuttie.  'It is cruel to take him, poor man!'

'Meantime, Nuttie, do you like an hour of "Marie Stuart?"'

'Oh, thank you!'  But she whispered, 'Aunt Ursel, may I tell her?'

'Ask your mother, my dear.'

Leave was given, half reluctantly, and with a prohibition against mentioning the subject to
any one else, but both mother and aunt had confidence in Mary Nugent's wisdom and discretion,
so the two friends sat on the wall together, and Ursula poured out her heart.  Poor little
girl! she was greatly discomfited at the vanishing of her noble vision of the heroic self-devoted
father, and ready on the other hand to believe him a villain, like Bertram Risingham, or 'the
Pirate,' being possessed by this idea on account of his West Indian voyages.  At any rate,
she was determined not to be accepted or acknowledged without her mother, and was already rehearsing
magnanimous letters of refusal.

Miss Mary listened and wondered, feeling sometimes as if this were as much a romance as the
little yacht going down with the burning ship; and then came back the recollection that there
was a real fact that Nuttie had a father, and that it was entirely uncertain what part he might
take, or what the girl might be called on to do.  Considering anxiously these bearings of the
question, she scarcely heard what she was required to assent to, in one of Nuttie's eager,
'Don't you think so?'

'My dear Nuttie,' she said, rousing herself, 'what I do think is that it will all probably
turn out exactly contrariwise to our imaginations, so I believe it would be wisest to build
up as few fancies as possible, but only to pray that you may have a right judgment in all things,
and have strength to do what is right, whatever you may see that to be.'

'And of course that will be to stick by mother.'

'There can be little doubt of that, but the how?  No, dear, do not let us devise all sorts
of hows when we have nothing to go upon. That would be of no use, and only perplex you when
the time comes. It would be much better to "do the nexte thinge," and read our "Marie Stuart."'

Nuttie pouted a little, but submitted, though she now and then broke into a translation with
'You know mother will never stand up for herself,' or 'They think I shall be asked to stay
with the Egremonts, but I must work up for the exam.'

However, the school habit of concentrating her attention prevailed, and the study quieted Nuttie's
excitement.  The expedition took place as arranged.  There was a train which stopped so that
the party could go down by it, and the distance was not too great for walking back.

Mr. Dutton met them on the platform, well armed with his neat silk umbrella, and his black
poodle, Monsieur, trotting solemnly after him. Gerard Godfrey bore materials for an exact transcript
of the Abbot's monumental cross, his head being full of church architecture, while Nuttie carried
a long green tin case, or vasculum as she chose to call it, with her three vowels, U A E, and
the stars of the Little Bear conspicuously painted on it in white.

'You did not venture on that the other day,' said Mr. Dutton.  'How much of the park do you
mean to carry away in it?'

'Let me take it,' said Gerard politely.

'No, thank you.  You'd leave it behind, while you were pottering over the mouldings.'

'You are much more likely to leave it behind yourself.'

'What--with my soldier, my Stratiotes, in it?  I think I see myself.'

'Give it to me,' said Gerard.  'Of course I can't see you carrying a great thing like that.'

'Can't you, indeed?'

'Gently, gently, my dear,' said Miss Mary, as the young people seemed very near a skirmish,
and the train was sweeping up.  Then there was another small scuffle, for Nuttie had set her
heart on the third class; but Mr. Dutton had taken second-class tickets, and was about to hand
them into a carriage whence there had just emerged a very supercilious black-moustached valet,
who was pulling out a leather-covered dressing-case, while Gerard was consoling Nuttie by telling
her that Monsieur never deigned to go third class.

'It is a smoking carriage,' said Miss Nugent, on the step.  'Pah! how it smells,' as she jumped
back.

'Beautiful backy--a perfect nosegay,' said Gerard.

'Trust that fellow for having the best.'

'His master's, no doubt,' suggested Mr. Dutton.

'You'd better go in it, to enjoy his reversion,' said Nuttie.

'And where's my escort, then?'

'Oh, I'm sure we don't want you.'

'Nuttie, my dear,' expostulated Miss Nugent, dragging her into the next carriage.

'You may enjoy the fragrance still,' said Nuttie when seated.  'Do you see--there's the man's
master; he has stood him up against that post, with his cigar, to wait while he gets out the
luggage.  I daresay you can get a whiff if you lean out far enough.'

'I say! that figure is a study!' said Gerard.  'What is it that he is so like?'

'Oh! I know,' said Nuttie.  'It is Lord Frederick Verisopht, and the bad gentlefolks in the
pictures to the old numbers of Dickens that you have got, Miss Mary.  Now, isn't he?  Look!
only Lord Frederick wasn't fat.'

Nuttie was in a state of excitement that made her peculiarly unmanageable, and Miss Nugent
was very grateful to Mr. Dutton for his sharp though general admonition against staring, while,
under pretext of disposing of the umbrella and the vasculum, he stood up, so as to block the
window till they were starting.

There was no one else to observe them but a demure old lady, and in ten minutes' time they
were in open space, where high spirits might work themselves off, though the battle over the
botanical case was ended by Miss Nugent, who strongly held that ladies should carry their own
extra encumbrances, and slung it with a scarf over Nuttie's shoulders in a knowing knapsack
fashion.

The two young people had known one another all their lives, for Gerard was the son of a medical
man who had lived next door to Miss Headworth when the children were young.  The father was
dead, and the family had left the place, but this son had remained at school, and afterwards
had been put into the office at the umbrella factory under charge of Mr. Dutton, whose godson
he was, and who treated him as a nephew.  He was a good-hearted, steady young fellow, with
his whole interest in ecclesiastical details, wearing a tie in accordance with 'the colours,'
and absorbed in church music and decorations, while his recreations were almost all in accordance
therewith.

There was plenty of merriment, as he drew and measured at the very scanty ruins, which were
little more than a few fragments of wall, overgrown luxuriantly with ivy and clematis, but
enclosing some fine old coffin-lids with floriated crosses, interesting to those who cared
for architecture and church history, as Mr. Dutton tried to make the children do, so that their
ecclesiastical feelings might be less narrow, and stand on a surer foundation than present
interest, a slightly aggressive feeling of contempt for all the other town churches, and a
pleasing sense of being persecuted.

They fought over the floriations and mouldings with great zest, and each maintained a date
with youthful vigour--both being, as Mr. Dutton by and by showed them, long before the foundation.
The pond had been left to the last with a view to the wellbeing of the water-soldier on the
return.  Here the difficulties of the capture were great, for the nearest plant flourished
too far from the bank to be reached with comfort, and besides, the sharp-pointed leaves to
which it owes its name were not to be approached with casual grasps.

'Oh Monsieur, I wish you were a Beau,' sighed Nuttie.  'Why, are you too stupid to go and get it?'

'It is a proof of his superior intelligence,' said Mr. Dutton.

'But really it is too ridiculous--too provoking--to have come all this way and not get it,'
cried the tantalised Nuttie.  'Oh, Gerard, are you taking off your boots and stockings?  You duck!'

'Just what I wish I was,' said the youth, rolling up his trousers.

But even the paddling in did not answer.  Mr. Dutton called out anxiously, 'Take care, Gerard,
the bottom may be soft,' and came down to the very verge just in time to hold out his hand,
and prevent an utterly disastrous fall, for Gerard, in spite of his bare feet, sank at once
into mud, and on the first attempt to take a step forward, found his foot slipping away from
under him, and would in another instant have tumbled backwards into the slush and weeds.  He
scrambled back, his hat falling off into the reeds, and splashing Mr. Dutton all over, while
Monsieur began to bark 'with astonishment at seeing his master in such a plight,' declared
the ladies, who stood convulsed with cruel laughter.

'Isn't it dreadful?' exclaimed Ursula.

'Well!  It might have been worse,' gravely said Mr. Dutton, wiping off the more obnoxious of
his splashes with his pocket handkerchief.

'Oh I didn't mean you, but the water-soldier,' said Nuttie.  'To have come five miles for it
in vain!'

'I don't know what to suggest,' added Gerard.  'Even if the ladies were to retire--'

'No, no,' interposed Mr. Dutton, ''tis no swimming ground, and I forbid the expedient.  You
would only be entangled in the weeds.'

'Behold!' exclaimed Mary, who had been prowling about the banks, and now held up in triumph
one of the poles with a bill-hook at the end used for cutting weed.

'Bravo, Miss Nugent!' cried Gerard.

'Female wit has circumvented the water-soldier,' said Mr. Dutton.

'Don't cry out too soon,' returned Mary; 'the soldier may float off and escape you yet.'

However, the capture was safely accomplished, without even a dip under water to destroy the
beauty of the white flowers.  With these, and a few waterlilies secured by Gerard for the morrow's
altar vases, the party set out on their homeward walk, through plantations of whispering firs,
the low sun tingeing the trunks with ruddy light; across heathery commons, where crimson heath
abounded, and the delicate blush-coloured wax-belled species was a prize; by cornfields in
ear hanging out their dainty stamens; along hedges full of exquisite plumes of feathering or
nodding grass, of which Nuttie made bouquets and botanical studies, and Gerard stored for harvest
decorations.  They ran and danced on together with Monsieur at their heels, while the elders
watched them with some sadness and anxiety. Free-masonry had soon made both Mary and Mr. Dutton
aware of each other's initiation, and they had discussed the matter in all its bearings, agreed
that the man was a scoundrel, and the woman an angel, even if she had once been weak, and that
she ought to be very resolute with him if he came to terms.  And then they looked after their
young companions, and Mr. Dutton said, 'Poor children, what is before them?'

'It is well they are both so young,' answered Mary.

CHAPTER VII.

THAT MAN.

  'It is the last time--'tis the last!'--SCOTT.

Sundays were the ever-recurring centres of work and interests to the little circle in St. Ambrose's
Road.  To them the church services and the various classes and schools were the great objects
and excitements of the week.  A certain measure of hopeful effort and varying success is what
gives zest to life, and the purer and higher the aim, and the more unmixed the motives, the
greater the happiness achieved by the 'something attempted, something done.'

Setting apart actual spiritual devotion, the altar vases, purchased by a contribution of careful
savings, and adorned with the Monks Horton lilies, backed by ferns from the same quarter; the
surplices made by the ladies themselves, the chants they had practised, the hymns they had
taught, could not but be much more interesting to them than if they had been mere lookers on.
Every cross on the markers, every flower on the altar cloth was the work of one or other of
them; everything in the church was an achievement, and choir boys, school children, Bible classes,
every member of the regular congregation, had some special interest; nay, every irregular member
or visitor might be a convert in time--if not a present sympathiser, and at the very least
might swell the offertory that was destined to so many needs of the struggling district.

Thus it was with some curiosity mingled with self-reproach that Nuttie, while singing her Benedictus
among the tuneful shop-girls, to whom she was bound to set an example, became aware of yesterday's
first-class traveller lounging, as far as the rows of chairs would permit, in the aisle, and,
as she thought, staring hard at her mother.  It was well that Mrs. Egremont's invariable custom
was never to lift her eyes from her book or her harmonium, or she surely must have been disconcerted,
her daughter thought, by the eyes that must have found her out, under her little black net
bonnet and veil, as the most beautiful woman in church,--as she certainly was,--even that fine
good-for-nothing gentleman thinking so.  Nuttie would add his glances to the glories of her
lovely mother!

And she did so, with triumph in her tone of reprobation, as she trotted off, after the early
dinner, to her share of Sunday-school work as usual under Miss Nugent's wing.  It began with
a children's service, and then ensued, in rooms at the factory, lent by Mr. Dutton, the teaching
that was to supply the omissions of the Board School; the establishment of a voluntary one
being the next ambition of St. Ambrose's.

Coming home from their labours, in the fervent discussion of their scholars, and exchanging
remarks and greetings with the other teachers of various calibres, the friends reached their
own road, and there, to their amazement, beheld Miss Headworth.

'Yes, it really is!' cried Nuttie.  'We can't be too late?  No--there's no bell!  Aunt Ursel!
What has brought you out?  What's the matter? Where's mother?'

'In the house.  My dear,' catching hold of her, and speaking breathlessly, 'I came out to prepare
you.  He is come--your father--'

'Where?' cried Nuttie, rather wildly.

'He is in the drawing-room with your mother.  I said I would send you.' Poor Miss Headworth
gasped with agitation.  'Oh! where's Mr. Dutton--not that anything can be done--'

'Is it that man?' asked Nuttie, and getting no answer, 'I know it is! Oh Aunt Ursel, how could
you leave her with him?  I must go and protect her.  Gerard--come.  No, go and fetch Mr. Dutton.'

'Hush! hush, Nuttie,' cried her aunt, grasping her.  'You know nothing about it.  Wait here
till I can tell you.'

'Come in here, dear Miss Headworth,' said Mary, gently drawing her arm into hers, for the poor
old lady could hardly stand for trembling, and bidding Gerard open the door of her own house
with the latch-key.

She took them into the dining-room, so as not to disturb her mother, sent Gerard off after
Mr. Dutton in the very uttermost astonishment and bewilderment, and set Miss Headworth down
in an easy-chair, where she recovered herself, under Mary's soothing care, enough to tell her
story in spite of Nuttie's exclamations.  'Wait! wait, Nuttie!  You mustn't burst in on them
so!  No, you need not be afraid.  Don't be a silly child!  He won't hurt her!  Oh no!  They
are quite delighted to meet.'

'Delighted to meet?' said Nuttie, as if transfixed.

'Yes,' said her aunt.  'Oh yes, I always knew the poor child cared for him and tried to believe
in him all along.  He only had to say the word.'

'I wouldn't,' cried the girl, her eyes flashing.  'Why didn't you ask him how he could desert
her and leave her?'

'My dear! how can one come between husband and wife?  Oh, my poor Alice!'

'How was it, how did they meet, dear Miss Headworth?' asked Mary, administering the wine she
had been pouring out.

'You hadn't been gone half an hour, Alice was reading to me, and I was just dozing, when in
came Louisa.  "A gentleman to see Mrs. Egremont," she said, and there he was just behind. 
We rose up--she did not know him at once, but he just said "Edda, my little Edda, sweeter than
ever, I knew you at once," or something of that sort, and she gave one little cry of "I knew
you would come," and sprang right into his arms. I--well, I meant to make him understand how
he had treated her, but just as I began "Sir"--he came at me with his hand outstretched--'

'You didn't take it, aunt, I hope?' cried Nuttie.

'My dear, when you see him, you will know how impossible it is.  He has that high-bred manner
it is as if he were conferring a favour. "Miss Headworth, I conclude," said he, "a lady to
whom I owe more than I can express."  Just as if I had done it for his sake.'  Miss Nugent
felt this open expression dangerous on account of the daughter, and she looked her consternation
at Mr. Dutton, who had quietly entered, ruthlessly shutting Gerard Godfrey out with only such
a word of explanation as could be given on the way.

'Then he comes with--with favourable intentions,' said Mary, putting as much admonition as
she could into her voice.

'Oh! no doubt of that,' said Miss Headworth, drawing herself together. 'He spoke of the long
separation,--said he had never been able to find her, till the strange chance of his nephew
stumbling on her at Abbots Norton.'

'That is--possib--probably true,' said Mr. Dutton.

'It can't be,' broke in Nuttie.  'He never troubled himself about it till his nephew found
the papers.  You said so, Aunt Ursel!  He is a dreadful traitor of a man, just like Marmion,
or Theseus, or Lancelot, and now he is telling lies about it!  Don't look at me. Aunt Ursel,
they are lies, and I will say it, and he took in poor dear mother once, and now he is taking
her in again, and I can't bear that he should be my father!'

It was so entirely true, yet so shocking to hear from her mouth, that all three stood aghast,
as she stood with heaving chest, crimson cheeks, and big tears in her eyes.  Miss Headworth
only muttered, 'Oh, my poor child, you mustn't!'

Mr. Dutton prevented another passionate outburst by his tone of grave, gentle authority.  'Listen
a moment, Ursula,' he said.  'It is unhappily true that this man has acted in an unjustifiable
way towards your mother and yourself.  But there are, no doubt, many more excuses for him than
you know of, and as I found a few years ago that the people at Dieppe had lost the address
that had been left with them, he must have found no traces of your mother there.  You cannot
understand the difficulties that may have been in his way.  And there is no use, quite the
contrary, in making the worst of him.  He has found your mother out, and it seems that he claims
her affectionately, and she forgives and welcomes him--out of the sweet tenderness of her heart.'

'She may--but I can't,' murmured Nuttie.

'That is not a fit thing for a daughter, nor a Christian, to say,' Mr. Dutton sternly said.

''Tis not for myself--'tis for her,--'objected Nuttie.

'That's nonsense; a mere excuse,' he returned.  'You have nothing at all to forgive, since
he did not know you were in existence.  And as to your mother, whom you say you put first,
what greater grief or pain can you give her than by showing enmity and resentment against her
husband, when she, the really injured person, loves and forgives?'

'He's a bad man.  If she goes back to him, I know he will make her unhappy--'

'You don't know any such thing, but you do know that your opposition will make her unhappy.
Remember, there's no choice in the matter. He has legal rights over you both, and since he
shows himself ready (as I understand from Miss Headworth that he is) to give her and you your
proper position, you have nothing to do but to be thankful.  I think myself that it is a great
subject of thankfulness that your mother can return so freely without any bitterness.  It is
the blessing of such as she--'

Nuttie stood pouting, but more thoughtful and less violent, as she said, 'How can I be thankful?
I don't want position or anything.  I only want him to let my--my own mother, and aunt, and
me alone.'

'Child, you are talking of what you do not understand.  You must not waste any more time in
argument.  Your mother has sent for you, and it is your duty to go and let her introduce you
to your father.  I have little doubt that you will find him very unlike all your imagination
represents him, but let that be as it may, the fifth Commandment does not say, "Honour only
thy good father," but, "Honour thy father."  Come now, put on your gloves--get her hat right,
if you please, Miss Mary. There--now, come along, be a reasonable creature, and a good girl,
and do not give unnecessary pain and vexation to your mother.'  He gave her his arm, and led
her away.

'Well done, Mr. Dutton!' exclaimed Miss Nugent.

'Poor Mr. Dutton!'  All Aunt Ursel's discretion could not suppress that sigh, but Mary prudently
let it pass unnoticed, only honouring in her heart the unselfishness and self-restraint of
the man whose long, patient, unspoken hopes had just received a death-blow.

'Oh, Mary!  I never thought it would have been like this!' cried the poor old lady.  'I ought
not to have spoken as I did before the child, but I was so taken by surprise!  Alice turned
to him just as if he had been the most faithful, loving husband in the world.  She is believing
every word he says.'

'It is very happy for her that she can,' pleaded Mary.

'So it is, yes, but--when one knows what he is, and what she is!  Oh, Mr. Dutton, is the poor
child gone in?'

'Yes, I saw her safe into the room.  She was very near running off up the stairs,' said Mr.
Dutton.  'But I daresay she is fascinated by this time.  That sort of man has great power over
women.'

'Nuttie is hardly a woman yet,' said Miss Nugent.

'No, but there must be a strong reaction, when she sees something unlike her compound of Marmion
and Theseus.'

'I suppose there is no question but that they must go with him!' said Miss Headworth wistfully.

'Assuredly.  You say he--this Egremont--was affectionate,' said Mr. Dutton quietly, but Mary
saw his fingers white with his tight clenching of the bar of the chair.

'Oh yes, warmly affectionate, delighted to find her prettier than ever, poor dear; I suppose
he meant it.  Heaven forgive me, if I am judging him too hardly, but I verily believe he went
to church to reconnoitre, and see whether she pleased his fancy--'

'And do you understand,' added Mr. Dutton, 'that he is prepared to do her full justice, and
introduce her to his family and friends as his wife, on equal terms?  Otherwise, even if she
were unwilling to stand up for herself, it would be the duty of her friends to make some stipulations.'

'I am pretty sure that he does,' said the aunt; 'I did not stay long when I saw that I was
not wanted, but I heard him say something about his having a home for her now, and her cutting
out the Redcastle ladies.'

'Besides, there is the nephew, Mr. Mark Egremont,' said Mary.  'He will take care of her.'

'Yes,' said Mr. Dutton.  'It appears to be all right.  At any rate, there can be no grounds
for interference on our part.'

Mr. Dutton took his leave with these words, wringing Miss Headworth's hand in mute sympathy,
and she, poor old lady, when he was gone, fairly collapsed into bitter weeping over the uncertain
future of those whom she had loved as her own children, and who now must leave her desolate.
Mary did her best with comfort and sympathy, and presently took her to share her griefs and
fears with gentle old Mrs. Nugent.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE FATHER.

  'I do think this lady
  To be my child.'--King Lear.

Nuttie, in her fresh holland Sunday dress, worked in crewels with wild strawberries by her
mother's hands, and with a white-trimmed straw hat, was almost shoved into the little drawing-room
by Mr. Dutton, though he was himself invisible.

Her eyes were in such a daze of tears that she hardly saw more at first than that some one
was there with her mother on the sofa.  'Ah, there she is!' she heard her mother cry, and both
rose.  Her mother's arm was round her waist, her hand was put into another, Mrs. Egremont's
voice, tremulous with exceeding delight, said, 'Our child, our Ursula, our Nuttie!  Oh, this
is what I have longed for all these years!  Oh, thanks, thanks!' and her hands left her daughter
to be clasped and uplifted for a moment in fervent thanksgiving, while Nuttie's hand was held,
and a strange hairy kiss, redolent of tobacco-smoking, was on her forehead--a masculine one,
such as she had never known, except her cousin Mark's, since the old rector died, and she had
grown too big for Mr. Dutton's embraces.  It was more strange than delightful, and yet she
felt the polish of the tone that said, 'We make acquaintance somewhat late, Ursula, but better
late than never.'

She looked up at this new father, and understood instantly what she had heard of his being
a grand gentleman.  There was a high-bred look about him, an entire ease and perfect manner
that made everything he did or said seem like gracious condescension, and took away the power
of questioning it at the moment.  He was not above the middle size, and was becoming unwieldy;
but there was something imposing and even graceful in his deportment, and his bald narrow forehead
looked aristocratic, set off between side tufts of white hair, white whiskers, and moustaches
waxed into sharp points, Victor Emmanuel fashion, and a round white curly beard.  His eyes
were dark, and looked dull, with yellow unwholesome corners, and his skin was not of a pleasant
colour, but still, with all Nuttie's intentions of regarding him with horror, she was subdued,
partly by the grand breeding and air of distinction, and partly by the current of sympathy
from her mother's look of perfect happiness and exultation. She could not help feeling it a
favour, almost an undeserved favour, that so great a personage should say, 'A complete Egremont,
I see. She has altogether the family face.'

'I am so glad you think so,' returned her mother.

'On the whole it is well, but she might have done better to resemble you, Edda,' he said caressingly;
'but perhaps that would have been too much for the Earlsforth natives.  William's girls will
have enough to endure without a double eclipse!' and he laughed.

'I--I don't want--' faltered the mother.

'You don't want, no, but you can't help it,' he said, evidently with a proud delight in her
beauty.  'Now that I have seen the child,' he added, 'I will make my way back to the hotel.'

'Will you--won't you stay to tea or dinner?' said his wife, beginning with an imploring tone
which hesitated as she reviewed possible chops and her aunt's dismay.

'Thank you, I have ordered dinner at the hotel,' he answered, 'and Gregorio is waiting for
me with a cab.  No doubt you will wish to make arrangements with Madame--the old lady--and
I will not trouble her further to-night.  I will send down Gregorio to-morrow morning, to tell
you what I arrange.  An afternoon train, probably, as we shall go no farther than London. 
You say Lady Kirkaldy called on you.  We might return her visit before starting, but I will
let you know when I have looked at the trains.  My compliments to Miss Headworth.  Good evening,
sweetest.'  He held his wife in a fond embrace, kissing her brow and cheeks and letting her
cling to him, then added, 'Good evening, little one,' with a good-natured careless gesture
with which Nuttie was quite content, for she had a certain loathing of the caresses that so
charmed her mother.  And yet the command to make ready had been given with such easy authority
that the idea of resisting it had never even entered her mind, though she stood still while
her mother went out to the door with him and watched him to the last.

Coming back, she threw her arms round her daughter, kissed her again and again, and, with showers
of the glad tears long repressed, cried, 'Oh, my Nuttie, my child, what joy!  How shall I be
thankful enough! Your father, your dear father!  Now it is all right.'  Little sentences of
ecstasy such as these, interspersed with caresses, all in the incoherence of overpowering delight,
full of an absolute faith that the lost husband had loved her and been pining for her all these
years, but that he had been unable to trace her, and was as happy as she was in the reunion.

The girl was somewhat bewildered, but she was carried along by this flood of exceeding joy
and gladness.  The Marmion and Theseus images had been dispelled by the reality, and, with
Mr. Dutton's sharp reproof fresh upon her, she felt herself to have been doing a great injustice
to her father; believed all that her mother did, and found herself the object of a romantic
recognition--if not the beggar girl become a princess, at any rate, the little school-teacher
a county lady!  And she had never seen her mother so wildly, overpoweringly happy with joy.
That made her, too, feel that something grand and glorious had happened.

'What are we going to do?' she asked, as the vehemence of Mrs. Egremont's emotion began to
work itself off.

'Home!  He takes us to his home!  His home!' repeated her mother, in a trance of joy, as the
yearnings of her widowed heart now were fulfilled.

'Oh, but Aunt Ursel!'

'Poor Aunt Ursel!  Oh, Nuttie, Nuttie, I had almost forgotten!  How could I?' and there was
a shower of tears of compunction.  'But he said he owed everything to her!  She will come with
us!  Or if she doesn't live with us, we will make her live close by in a dear little cottage.
Where is she?  When did she go?  I never saw her go.'

The sound of the front door was heard, for the visitor had been watched away and Miss Headworth
was returning to her own house to be there received with another fervent gush of happiness,
much more trying to her, poor thing, than to Nuttie.

There was evensong imminent, and the most needful act at the moment was to compose the harmonium-player
sufficiently for her to take her part. Miss Headworth was really glad of the necessity, since
it put off the discussion, and made a reason for silencing Nuttie until all should be more
recovered from the first agitation.  Alice Egremont herself was glad to carry her gratitude
and thankfulness to the Throne of Grace, and in her voluntary, and all her psalms, there was
an exulting strain that no one had thought the instrument capable of producing, and that went
to the heart of more than one of her hearers.  No one who knew her could doubt that hers was
simply innocent exultation in the recovery of him whom she so entirely loved and confided in.
But there could not but be terrible doubts whether he were worthy of that trust, and what the
new page in her life would be.

Miss Headworth had said they would not talk till after church, but there was no deferring the
matter then.  She was prepared, however, when her niece came up to her in a tender deprecating
manner, saying, 'Aunt Ursel, dear Aunt Ursel, it does seem very ungrateful, but--'

'He is going to take you away?  Yes, I saw that.  And it ought to be, my dear.  You know where?'

'Yes; to London first, to be fitted out, and then to his own home. To Bridgefield Egremont.
I shall have to see Mr. Egremont,' and her voice sank with shame.  'But Mark will be good to
me, and why should I care when I have him.'

'It is quite right. I am glad it should be so,' firmly said the old lady.

'And yet to leave you so suddenly.'

'That can't be helped.'

'And it will only be for a little while,' she added, 'till you can make arrangements to come
to us.  My dear husband says he owes you everything.  So you must be with us, or close to us.'

'My dear, it's very dear and good of you to think of it, but I must be independent.'  She put
it in those words, unwilling again to speak unguardedly before Nuttie.

'Oh, dear auntie, indeed you must!  Think what you are to us, and what you have done for us.
We can't go away to be happy and prosperous and leave you behind.  Can we, Nuttie?  Come and
help me to get her to promise.  Do--do dearest auntie,' and she began the coaxing and caressing
natural to her, but Nuttie did not join in it, and Miss Headworth shook her head and said gravely--

'Don't, Alice.  It is of no use.  I tell you once for all that my mind is made up.'

Alice, knowing by long experience that, when her aunt spoke in that tone, persuasion was useless,
desisted, but looked at her in consternation, with eyes swimming in tears.  Nuttie understood
her a little better, and felt the prickings of distrust again.

'But, aunt, dear aunt, how can we leave you?  What will you do with all the boarders,' went
on Mrs. Egremont.

'I shall see my way, my dear.  Do not think about that.  It is a great thing to see you and
this child receive justice.'

'And only think, after all the hard things that have been said of him, that we should meet
first at church!  He would not wait and send letters and messages by Mark.  You see he came
down himself the first moment.  I always knew he would.  Only I am so sorry for him, that he
should have lost all those sweet years when Nuttie was a tiny child. She must do all she can
to make up to him.'

'Oh dear!' broke out Nuttie.  'It is so strange!  It will be all so strange!'

'It will be a very new life,' said her aunt, rather didactically; 'but you must do your best
to be a good daughter, and to fill your new position, and I have no doubt you will enjoy it.'

'If I could but take all with me!' said Nuttie.  'Oh dear! whatever will you do, Aunt Ursel?
Oh mother, the choir!  Who will play the harmonium? and who will lead the girls? and whatever
will Mr. Spyers do? and who will take my class?  Mother, couldn't we stay a little longer to
set things going here?'

'It is nice of you to have thought of it, my dear,' said Mrs. Egremont, 'but your father would
not like to stay on here.'

'But mightn't I stay, just a few days, mother, to wish everybody good-bye?  Mr. Dutton, and
Miss Mary, and Gerard, and all the girls?'

There was some consolation in this plan, and the three women rested on it that night, Mrs.
Egremont recovering composure enough to write three or four needful notes, explaining her sudden
departure.  The aunt could not talk of a future she so much dreaded for her nieces, losing
in it the thought of her own loneliness; Alice kept back her own loving, tender, undoubting
joy with a curious sense that it was hard and ungrateful towards the aunt; but it was impossible
to think of that, and Nuttie was in many moods.

Eager anticipation of the new unseen world beyond, exultation in finding herself somebody,
sympathy with her mother's happiness, all had their share, but they made her all the wilder,
because they were far from unmixed.  The instinctive dislike of Mr. Egremont's countenance,
and doubt of his plausible story, which had vanished before his presence, and her mother's
faith, returned upon her from time to time, caught perhaps from her aunt's tone and looks.
Then her aunt had been like a mother to her--her own mother much more like a sister, and the
quitting her was a wrench not compensated for as in Mrs. Egremont's case by a more absorbing
affection.  Moreover, Nuttie felt sure that poor Gerard Godfrey would break his heart.  As
the mother and daughter for the last time lay down together in the room that had been theirs
through the seventeen years of the girl's life, Alice fell asleep with a look of exquisite
peace and content on her face, feeling her long term of trial crowned by unlooked-for joy,
while Ursula, though respecting her slumbers too much to move, lay with wide-open eyes, now
speculating on the strange future, now grieving over those she left--Aunt Ursel, Gerard, Mary,
and all such; the schemes from which she was snatched, and then again consoling herself with
the hope that, since she was going to be rich, she could at once give all that was wanted--the
white altar cloth, the brass pitcher--nay, perhaps finish the church and build the school!
For had not some one said something about her position?  Oh yes, she had not thought of it
before, but, since she was the elder brother's daughter, she must be the heiress! There was
no doubt a grand beautiful story before her; she would withstand all sorts of fascinations,
wicked baronets and earls innumerable, and come back and take Gerard by the hand, and say,
'Pride was quelled and love was free.'  Not that Gerard had ever uttered a word tending in
that direction since he had been seven years old, but that would make it all the prettier;
they would both be silently constant, till the time came, perhaps when she was of age.  Mother
would like it, though that father would certainly be horrid.  And how nice it would be to give
Gerard everything, and they would go all over the Continent, and see pictures, and buy them,
and see all the cathedrals and all the mountains.  But perhaps, since Mark Egremont had really
been so generous in hunting up the cousin who was displacing him, she was bound in duty to
marry him; perhaps he reckoned on her doing so.  She would be generous in her turn, give up
all the wealth to him, and return to do and be everything to Micklethwayte.  How they would
admire and bless her.  And oh! she was going to London to-morrow--London, which she so much
wished to see--Westminster Abbey, British Museum, All Saints, National Gallery, no end of new
dresses.

Half-waking, half-dreaming, she spent the night which seemed long enough, and the light hours
of the summer morning seemed still longer, before she could call it a reasonable time for getting
up. Her splashings  awoke her mother, who lay smiling for a few moments, realising and giving
thanks for her great joy, then bestirred herself with the recollection of all that had to be
done on this busy morning before any summons from her husband could arrive.

Combining packing and dressing, like the essentially unmethodical little woman she was, Mrs.
Egremont still had all her beautiful silky brown hair about her shoulders when the bell of
St. Ambrose's was heard giving its thin tinkling summons to matins at half-past seven. She
was disappointed; she meant to have gone for this last time, but there was no help for it,
and Nuttie set off by herself.

Gerard Godfrey was at his own door.  He was not one of the regular attendants at the short
service, being of that modern species that holds itself superior to 'Cranmer's prayers,' but
on this morning he hastened up to her with outstretched hand.

'And you are going away!' he said.

'I hope to get leave to stay a few days after mother,' she said.

'To prolong the torment?' he said.

'To wish everybody good-bye.  It is a great piece of my life that is come to an end, and I
can't bear to break it off so short.'

'And if you feel so, who are going to wealth and pleasure, what must it be to those who are
left behind?'

'Oh!' said Nuttie, 'some one will be raised up.  That's what they always say.'

'I shall go into a brotherhood,' observed Gerard desperately.

'Oh, don't,' began Nuttie, much gratified, but at that moment Miss Nugent came out at her door,
and Mr. Spyers, who was some way in advance, looked round and waited for them to come up. 
He held out his hands to her and said, 'Well, Nuttie, my child, you are going to begin a new life.'

'Oh dear!  I wish I could have both!' cried Nuttie, not very relevantly as far as the words went.

'Scheiden und weiden thut weh!' quoted Mary.

'If his place was only Monks Horton.  What will Aunt Ursel do?'

'I think perhaps she may be induced to join us,' said Mary.  'We mean to do our best to persuade
her.'

'And there's the choir!  And my class, and the harmonium,' went on Nuttie, while Gerard walked
on disconsolately.

'Micklethwayte has existed without you, Nuttie,' said Mr. Spyers, taking her on with him alone.
'Perhaps it will be able to do so again. My dear, you had better look on.  There will be plenty
for you to learn and to do where you are going, and you will be sure to find much to enjoy,
and also something to bear.  I should like to remind you that the best means of going on well
in this new world will be to keep self down and to have the strong desire that only love can
give to be submissive, and to do what is right both to God and your father and mother.  May
I give you a text to take with you? "Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right."'

They were at the door and there was no time for an answer, but Nuttie, as she took her place,
was partly touched and partly fretted at the admonition.

The question as to her remaining a day or two after her mother was soon disposed of.  Mrs.
Egremont sent a pretty little note to make the request, but the elegant valet who appeared
at ten o'clock brought a verbal message that his master wished Mrs. and Miss Egremont to be
ready by two o'clock to join him in calling on Lady Kirkaldy at Monks Horton, and that if their
luggage was ready by four o'clock, he (Gregorio) would take charge of it, as they were all
to go up to town by the 4.40 train.

'Did he have my note?' faltered Alice, stimulated by the imploring glances of aunt and daughter,
but anticipating the answer.

'Yes, madame, but he wishes that Miss Egremont should accompany you immediately.'

'Of course,' was Alice's comment, 'now that he has found his child, he cannot bear to part
with her.'

And all through the farewells that almost rent the gentle Alice's heart in two, she was haunted
by the terror that she or her daughter should have red eyes to vex her husband.  As to Mr.
Dutton, he had only come in with Gerard in a great hurry just after breakfast, said there was
much to do to-day at the office, as they were going to take stock, and they should neither
of them have time to come home to luncheon.  He shook the hands of mother and daughter heartily,
promised to 'look after' Miss Headworth, and bore off in his train young Gerard, looking the
picture of woe, and muttering 'I believe he has got it up on purpose;' while mother and daughter
thought it very odd, and rather unkind.

CHAPTER IX.

NEW PLUMES.

  'And ye sall walk in silk attire,
  And siller hae to spare.'--Old Ballad.

The very best open fly and pair of horses, being the equipage most like a private carriage
possessed by the Royal Hotel, came to the door with Mr. Egremont seated in it, at a few minutes
after two o'clock, and found Alice in her only black silk, with a rose in her bonnet, and a
tie to match on her neck, hastily procured as signs of her wifehood.

She had swallowed her tears, and Nuttie was not a crying person, but was perfectly scarlet
on her usually brown cheeks.  Her father muttered some civility about back seats, but it was
plain that it was only in words, and she never thought of anything but looking back, with her
last wave to her aunt and the two maids, one crying at the gate, the other at the door.

'There,' said Mr. Egremont, as they drove away, 'that is over!'

'My dear aunt,' said his wife.  'Who can express her goodness to me?'

'Cela va sans dire,' was the reply.  'But these are connections that happily Ursula is young
enough to forget and leave behind.'

'I shall never forget!' began Nuttie, but she saw her father composing himself in his corner
without paying the slightest heed to what she was saying, and she encountered a warning and
alarmed glance from her mother, so she was forced to content herself with uttering silent vows
of perpetual recollection as she passed each well-known object,--the unfinished church, with
Mr. Spyers at the door talking to old Bellman; the Town Hall, whose concerts, lectures, and
S. P. G. meetings had been her chief gaiety and excitement; the School of Art, where Lady Kirkaldy's
appearance now seemed to her to have been like that of a bird of omen; past the shops in the
High Street, with a little exultation at the thought of past desires which they had excited.
Long could she have rattled away, her hopes contradicting her regrets, and her regrets qualifying
her anticipations, but she saw that her mother was nervous about every word and gesture, and
fairly looked dismayed when she exclaimed, 'Oh, mother, there's Etta Smith; how surprised she
will be!' bowing and smiling with all her might.

There was a look of bare toleration on Mr. Egremont's face, as if he endured because it would
soon be over, as Nuttie bowed several times, and his wife, though less quick to catch people's
eyes, sometimes also made her recognition.  When the streets were past and Nuttie had aimed
her last nods at the nursery parties out walking on the road, she became aware that those cold,
lack-lustre, and yet sharply critical eyes of her father were scanning her all over.

'She has been educated?' he presently said to his wife.

'Oh yes,' was the eager answer.  'She is in the highest form at the High School, and has to
go up for the Senior Local Examination.  Miss Belper makes sure that she will get a first class.'

Mr. Egremont gave a little wave of the hand, as dismissing something superfluous, and said,
'I hope she has some accomplishments.'

'She has done very fairly in French and German--'

'And Latin,' put in Ursula.

'And she has had several prizes at the School of Art.'

'And music?  That's the only thing of any value in society,' he said impatiently, and Mrs.
Egremont said more timidly, 'She has learnt music regularly.'

'But I don't care about it,' broke in Nuttie.  'I haven't mother's ear nor her voice.  I learnt
the science in case I should have to teach, and they make me practise.  I don't mind classical
music, but I can't stand rubbish, and I think it is waste of time.'

Mr. Egremont looked fairly amused, as at the outspoken folly of an enfant terrible, but he
only said, either to his wife or to himself, 'A little polish, and then she may be fairly presentable.'

'We have taken great pains with her,' answered the gentle mother, evidently taking this as
a great compliment, while the daughter was tingling with indignation.  She, bred up by mother,
and aunt, and Mary Nugent, to be barely presentable.  Was not their society at Micklethwayte
equal in good manners to any, and superior, far superior, in goodness and intelligence to these
stupid fashionable people, who undervalued all her real useful acquirements, and cared for
nothing but trumpery music.

The carriage entered the park, and Nuttie saw lake and woods from a fresh point of view.  The
owners were both at home, and Nuttie found herself walking behind her parents into a cheerful
apartment, half library, half morning-room.  Mrs. Egremont was by far the most shy and shrinking
of the party, but it was an occasion that showed her husband's complete tact and savoir favre.
He knew perfectly well that the Kirkaldys knew all about it, and he therefore took the initiative.
'You are surprised to see us,' he said, as he gave his hand, 'but we could not leave the country
without coming to thank Lady Kirkaldy for her kindness in assisting in following up the clue
to Mrs. Egremont's residence.'

'I am very happy,' said Lady Kirkaldy, while all were being seated.

'I think it was here that my nephew Mark first met one whom, child as he was, he could not
but remember.'

'I don't think you met him here,' said Lady Kirkaldy to Mrs. Egremont; 'but he heard the name
and was struck by it.'

'Dear Mark!' was the response.  'He was so kind.'

'He is a dear good boy,' chimed in my lady.

'Yes,' said her lord, 'an excellent good fellow with plenty of brains.'

'As he well knows,' said Mr. Egremont.  'Oh yes; I quite agree with all you say of him!  One
ought to be thankful for the possession of a rare specimen.'

It was in the tone in which Falstaff discussed that sober boy, Lord John of Lancaster.  Lord
Kirkaldy asked if the visitors were going to remain long in the neighbourhood.

'We are due in London to-night,' replied Mr. Egremont.  'We shall spend a day or two there,
and then go home.  Alice,' he added, though his wife had never heard him call her so before,
'Lady Kirkaldy knows your inexperience.  Perhaps she would be good enough to give you some
addresses that might be useful.'

'I shall be delighted,' said the lady, cordially looking at the blushing Mrs. Egremont.

'Dressmaker, and all the rest of it,' said Mr. Egremont.  'You know better than she does what
she will require, and a little advice will be invaluable.  Above all, if you could tell her
how to pick up a maid.'

Lady Kirkaldy proposed to take the mother and daughter up to her dressing-room, where she kept
her book of addresses to London tradesmen; and Mr. Egremont only begged that they would remember
the 4.40 train.  Then Lord Kirkaldy was left to entertain him, while the ladies went up the
broad staircase to the pleasant room, which had a mingled look of refinement and usefulness
which struck Nuttie at once. Lady Kirkaldy, as soon as the door was shut, took her visitor
by the hand, kissed her forehead, and said, 'You must let me tell you how glad I am.'

The crystal veil at once spread over Alice's eyes.

'Oh, thank you. Lady Kirkaldy!  I am so happy, and yet I am so afraid.  Please tell me what
we shall do so that we may not vex him, so high bred and fastidious as he is?'

'Be yourself!  That's all, my dear,' said Lady Kirkaldy tenderly. 'Don't be afraid.  You are
quite incapable of doing anything that could distress the most fastidious taste.'

It was perfectly true of the mother, perhaps less so of the daughter; but Lady Kirkaldy only
thought of her as a mere girl, who could easily be modelled by her surroundings.  The kind
hostess applied herself to giving the addresses of the people she thought likely to be most
useful in the complete outfit which she saw would be necessary, explaining to which establishments
she applied with confidence if she needed to complete her wardrobe in haste, feeling certain
that nothing would be sent her that she disliked, and giving leave to use her name.  She soon
saw that the mother was a little dazed, while Ursula's eyes grew rounder at the unlimited vista
of fine clothes, and she assented, and asked questions as to the details.  As to a maid, Lady
Kirkaldy would write to a person who would call on Mrs. Egremont at the hotel in London, and
who might be what was wanted; and in conclusion, Lady Kirkaldy, with some diffidence, begged
to be written to--'if--if,' she said, 'there happened to be any difficulty about which you
might not like to consult Mrs. William Egremont.'  Nuttie hardly knew whether to be grateful
or not, for she did not believe in any standard above that of Micklethwayte, and she was almost
angry at her mother's grateful answer--'Oh, thank you!  I should be so grateful!  I am so afraid
of annoying him by what he may think small, ignorant, country-town ways! You will understand--'

Lady Kirkaldy did understand, and she dreaded what might be before the sweet little yielding
woman, not from want of breeding so much as from the long-indulged selfishness of her husband;
but she encouraged her as much as possible, and promised all possible counsel, bringing her
downstairs again just in time.

'Pretty little soul!' said Lord Kirkaldy, as the fly clattered away. 'I wonder whether Mark
has done her a kindness!'

'It is just what she is, a pretty, nay, a beautiful soul, full of tenderness and forgiveness
and affection and humility, only I doubt whether there is any force or resolution to hold her
own.  You smile! Well, perhaps the less of that she has the better she may get on with him.
Did he say anything about her?'

'No; I think he wants to ignore that they have not spent the last twenty years together.'

'That may be the best way for all parties.  Do you think he will behave well to her?'

'No man could well do otherwise to such a sweet little thing,' said Lord Kirkaldy; 'especially
as she will be his most obedient slave, and will make herself necessary to him.  It is much
better luck than he deserves; but I pity her when she comes to make her way with yon ladies!'

'I wish I was there!  I know she will let herself be trodden on! However, there's Mark to stand
up for her, and William Egremont will do whatever he thinks right and just.  I wish I knew
how his wife will take it!'

CHAPTER X.

BRIDGEFIELD EGREMONT.

  'Let us see these handsome houses
  Where the wealthy nobles dwell.'--TENNYSON.

'Mother, mother!' cried two young people, bursting open the door of the pretty dining-room
of Bridgefield Rectory, where the grown-up part of the family were lingering over a late breakfast.

'Gently, gently, children,' said the dignified lady at the head of the table.  'Don't disturb
papa.'

'But we really have something to say, mother!' said the elder girl, 'and Fraulein said you
ought to know.  Uncle Alwyn is come home, and Mrs. Egremont.  And please, are we to call her
Aunt Egremont, or Aunt Alwyn, or what?'

The desired sensation was produced.  Canon Egremont put down his newspaper.  The two elder
sisters looked from one to the other in unmitigated astonishment.  Mark briefly made answer
to the final question, 'Aunt Alice,' and Mrs. Egremont said gravely, 'How did you hear this,
Rosalind?  You know I always forbid you to gossip.'

'We didn't gossip, mother.  We went up to the gardens to get some mulberries for our half-holiday
feast; and Ronaldson came out and told us we must ask leave first, for the ladies were come.
The Squire came home at nine o'clock last night, and Mrs. Egremont and all, and only sent a
telegram two hours before to have the rooms got ready.'

'Has Uncle Alwyn gone and got himself married?' exclaimed one of the young ladies, in utter
amazement.

'Not just now, Blanche,' said her father.  'It is an old story now. Your uncle married this
lady, who had been governess to May and Mark, many years ago, and from--circumstances in which
she was not at all to blame, he lost sight of her while he was abroad with old General Egremont.
Mark met her about a fortnight ago, and this has led to your uncle's going in quest of her,
though he has certainly been more sudden in his proceedings than I expected.'

The mother here succeeded in sending Rosalind and Adela, with their wondering eyes, off the
scene, and she would much have liked to send her two stepdaughters after them, but one-and-twenty
and eighteen could not so readily be ordered off as twelve and ten; and Mark, who had been
prohibited from uttering a word to his sisters, was eagerly examining Margaret whether she
remembered their Edda; but she had been only three years old at the time of the adventures
in the Isle of Wight, and remembered nothing distinctly but the aspect of one of the sailors
in the yacht.

'Well,' said Mrs. Egremont, 'this has come very suddenly upon us.  It would have been more
for her own dignity if she had held out a little before coming so easily to terms, after the
way in which she has been treated.'

'When you see her, mother, you will understand,' said Mark.

'Shall we have to be intimate with her?' asked May.

'I desire that she should be treated as a relation,' said the Canon decidedly.  'There is nothing
against her character,' and, as his wife was about to interrupt,--'nothing but an indiscretion
to which she was almost driven many years ago.  She was cruelly treated, and I for one am heartily
sorry for having let myself be guided by others.'

Mrs. William Egremont felt somewhat complacent, for she knew he meant Lady de Lyonnais, and
there certainly had been no love lost between her and her step-children's grandmother; but
she was a sensible woman, and forbore to speak, though there was a mental reservation that
intimacy would a good deal depend upon circumstances.  Blanche cried out that it was a perfect
romance, and May gravely said, 'But is she a lady?'

'A perfect lady,' said Mark.  'Aunt Margaret says so.'

'One knows what a perfect lady means,' returned May.

'Come, May,' said Mrs. Egremont, 'do not let us begin with a prejudice. By all accounts the
poor thing has conducted herself with perfect respectability all this time.  What did you tell
me, Mark? She has been living with an aunt, keeping a school at Micklethwayte.'

'Not quite,' said Mark.  'She has been acting as a daily governess. She seemed to be on friendly
terms with the clerical folk.  I came across the name at a school feast, or something of the
kind, which came off in the Kirkaldys' park.'

'Oh, then, I know exactly the sort of person!' returned May, pursing up her lips.

Mark laughed and said, 'I wonder whether it is too soon to go up and see them.  I wonder what
my uncle thinks of his daughter.'

'What!  You don't mean to say there is a daughter?' cried May.

'Even so.  And exactly like you too, Miss May.'

'Then you are cut out, Mark!'

'You are cut out, I think, May.  You'll have to give her all your Miss Egremont cards.'

'No,' said the young lady; 'mother made me have my Christian name printed.  She said all but
the daughters of the head of the family ought to have it so.  I'm glad of it.'

'How old is she?' asked Blanche.

'About a year younger than you.'

'I think it is very interesting,' said Blanche.  'How wonderful it must all be to her!  I will
go up with you, Mark, as soon as I can get ready.'

'You had better wait till later in the day, Blanche,' said the mother. She knew the meeting
was inevitable, but she preferred having it under her own eye, if she could not reconnoitre.

She was a just and sensible woman, who felt reparation due to the newly-discovered sister-in-law,
and that harmony, or at least the appearance of it, must be preserved; but she was also exclusive
and fastidious by nature, and did not look forward to the needful intercourse with much satisfaction
either on her own account or that of her family.

She told Mark to say that she should come to see Mrs. Egremont after luncheon, since he was
determined to go at once, and moreover to drag his father with him.  Canon Egremont was a good
and upright man, according to his lights, which were rather those of a well-beneficed clergyman
of the first than of the last half of the century, intensified perhaps that the passive voice
was the strongest in him. All the country knew that Canon Egremont could be relied on to give
a prudent, scholarly judgment, and to be kind and liberal, when once induced to stir mind or
body--but how to do that was the problem.  He had not been a young man at the time of his first
marriage, and was only a few years' junior to his brother, though he had the fresh, wholesome
look of a man who kept regular hours and lived much in the air.

Alice knew him at once, and thought eighteen years had made little change, as, at Nuttie's
call to her, she looked from the window and saw the handsome, dignified, gray-haired, close-shaven
rosy face, and the clerical garb unchanged in favour of long coats and high waistcoats.

The mother and daughter were exploring the house together.  Mr. Egremont had made it known
that he preferred having his breakfast alone, and not being disturbed in the forenoon.  So
the two ladies had breakfasted together at nine, the earliest hour at which they could prevail
on the household to give them a meal.  Indeed Nuttie had slept till nearly that time, for between
excitement and noise, her London slumbers had been broken; and her endeavour to keep Micklethwayte
hours had resulted in a long, weary, hungry time in the sitting-room of the hotel, with nothing
to do, when the gaze from the window palled on her, but to write to her aunt and Mary Nugent.
The rest of the day had been spent in driving about in a brougham with her mother shopping,
and this she could not but enjoy exceedingly, more than did the timid Mrs. Egremont, who could
not but feel herself weighted with responsibility; and never having had to spend at the utmost
more than ten pounds at a time, felt bewildered at the cheques put into her hands, and then
was alarmed to find them melting away faster than she expected.

There was a very late dinner, after which Mr. Egremont, on the first day, made his wife play
bezique with him.  She enjoyed it, as a tender reminiscence of the yachting days; but Nuttie
found herself de trop, and was reduced to the book she had contrived to purchase on her travels.
The second night Mr. Egremont had picked up two friends, not yet gone out of town, whose talk
was of horses and of yachts, quite incomprehensible to the ladies.  They were very attentive
to Mrs. Egremont, whom they evidently admired, one so visibly as to call up a blush; but they
disregarded the daughter as a schoolgirl.  Happily they appeared no more after the dinner;
but Nuttie's first exclamation of astonished disgust was silenced at once by her mother with
unusual determination, 'You must not speak so of your father's friends.'

'Not when--'

'Not at all,' interrupted Mrs. Egremont.

The only sense of promotion to greatness that Ursula had yet enjoyed was in these fine clothes,
and the maid whom Lady Kirkaldy had recommended, a grave and severe-looking person, of whom
both stood somewhat in awe.  The arrival at Bridgefield had been too late for anything to be
taken in but a general impression of space and dreariness, and the inevitable dinner of many
courses, after which Nuttie was so tired out that her mother sent her to bed.

Since the waking she had made some acquaintance with the house. There was no show of domestics,
no curtseying housekeeper to parade the new mistress over the house; Mr. Egremont had told
his wife that she must fill up the establishment as she pleased, but that there was an admirable
cook downstairs, and he would not have her interfered with--she suited his tastes as no one
else did, and she must be left to deal with the provisions and her own underlings.  There was
a stable establishment, and a footman had been hired in town, but there was besides only one
untidy-looking housemaid, who began by giving warning; and Alice and Nuttie had roamed about
without meeting any one from the big wainscotted dining-room with faded crimson curtains and
family portraits, the older grimy, the younger chalky, to the two drawing-rooms, whose gilding
and pale blue damask had been preserved by pinafores of brown holland; the library, which looked
and smelt as if Mr. Egremont was in the habit of sitting there, and a big billiard-room, all
opening into a shivery-feeling hall, with Scagliola columns and a few dirty statues between
them; then upstairs to a possible morning-room, looking out over a garden lawn, where mowing
was going on in haste, and suites of dreary shut-up fusty bedrooms. Nuttie, who had notions
of choosing her own bower, could not make up her mind which looked the least inviting.  It
did not seem as if girls could ever have laughed together, or children clattered up and down
the stairs.  Mrs. Egremont begged her to keep possession for the present at least of the chamber
where the grim housemaid had chosen to put her, and which had the advantage of being aired.

The two windows looked out over the park, and thence it was that while Morris, the maid, was
unpacking and putting away the new purchases, and Nuttie was standing, scarcely realising that
such pretty hats and bonnets could be her very own, when her mother beheld the Canon and Mark
advancing up the drive.  It was with a great start that she called Ursula to come down directly
with her, as no one would know where to find them, hastily washing the hands that had picked
up a sense of dustiness during the exploration, and taking a comprehensive glance in the cheval
glass, which showed her some one she felt entirely unfamiliar to her in a dainty summer costume
of pale gray silk picked out with a mysterious shade of pink.  Ursula too thought Miss Egremont's
outer woman more like a Chelsea shepherdess than Nuttie's true self, as she tripped along in
her buckled shoes and the sea green stockings that had been sent home with her skirt.  With
crimson cheeks and a throbbing heart, Alice was only just at the foot of the stairs when the
newcomers had made their way in, and the kind Canon, ignoring all that was past, held out his
hands saying, 'Well, my dear, I am glad to see you here,' kissing Mrs. Egremont on each cheek.
'And so this is your daughter.  How do you do, my dear--Ursula?  Isn't that your name?' And
Ursula had again to submit to a kiss, much more savoury and kindly than her father's, though
very stubbly.  And oh! her uncle's dress was like that of no one she had ever seen except the
rector of the old church, the object of unlimited contempt to the adherents of St. Ambrose's.

As to Mark, he only kissed his aunt, and shook hands with her, while his father ran on with
an unusual loquacity that was a proof of nervousness in him.

'Mrs. Egremont--Jane, I mean--will be here after luncheon.  She thought you would like to get
settled in first.  How is Alwyn?  Is he down yet?'

'I will see,' in a trembling voice.

'Oh no, never mind, Alwyn hates to be disturbed till he has made himself up in the morning.
My call is on you, you know.  Where are you sitting?'

'I don't quite know.  In the drawing-room, I suppose.'

The Canon, knowing the house much better than she did, opened a door into a third drawing-room
she had not yet seen, a pretty little room, fitted up with fluted silk, like a tent, somewhat
faded but not much the worse for that, and opening into a conservatory, which seemed to have
little in it but some veteran orange trees.  Nuttie, however, exclaimed with pleasure at the
nicest room she had seen, and Mark began unfastening the glass door that led into it.  Meantime
Alice, with burning cheeks and liquid eyes, nerved her voice to say, 'Oh, sir--Mr. Egremont--please
forgive me!  I know now how wrong I was.'

'Nonsense, my dear.  Bygones are bygones.  You were far more sinned against than sinning, and
have much to forgive me.  There, my dear, we will say no more about it, nor think of it either.
I am only too thankful that poor Alwyn should have some one to look after him.'

Alice, who had dreaded nothing more than the meeting with her former master, was infinitely
relieved and grateful for this kindness.  She had ejaculated, 'Oh, you are so good!' in the
midst, and now at the mention of her husband, she exclaimed, 'Oh! do you think he is ill? I
can't help being afraid he is, but he will not tell me, and does not like to be asked.'

'Poor fellow, he has damaged his health a good deal,' was the answer. 'He had a sharp attack
in the spring, but he has pretty well got over it, and Raikes told me there was no reason for
uneasiness, provided he would be careful; and that will be a much easier matter now.  I should
not wonder if we saw him with quite a renewed youth.'

So the Canon and Mrs. Egremont were getting on pretty well together, but there was much more
stiffness and less cordiality between the two cousins, although Mark got the window open into
the conservatory, and showed Nuttie the way into the garden, advising her to ask Ronaldson,
the gardener, to fill the conservatory with flowers.  The pavilion, as this little room was
called, always seemed to have more capacities for being lived in than any other room in the
house.  It had been fitted up when such things were the fashion for the shortlived bride of
'our great uncle.'

'The colour must have been awful then,' said Mark, looking up at it, 'enough to set one's teeth
on edge; but it has faded into something quite orthodox--much better than could be manufactured
for you.'

Mark had evidently some ideas of art, and was besides inclined to do the honours to the stranger;
but Nuttie was not going to encourage him or anybody else to make up to her, while she had
that look of Gerard Godfrey's in her mind's eye.  So she made small answer, and he felt rebuffed,
but supposed her shy, and wondered when he could go back to her mother, who was so much more
attractive.

Presently his father went off to storm the den of the master of the house, and there was a
pleasant quarter of an hour, during which the three went out through the conservatory, and
Mark showed the ins-and-outs of the garden, found out Ronaldson, and congratulated him on having
some one at last to appreciate his flowers, begging him to make the conservatory beautiful.
And Mrs. Egremont's smile was so effective that the Scot forthwith took out his knife and presented
her with the most precious of the roses within his reach.

Moreover Mark told the names and ages of all his sisters, whole and half.  He was the only
son, except a little fellow in the nursery. And he exhorted his aunt not to be afraid of his
step-mother, who was a most excellent person, he declared, but who never liked to see any one
afraid of her.

There was something a little alarming in this, but on the whole the visit was very pleasant
and encouraging to Mrs. Egremont; and she began rejoicing over the kindness as soon as the
Canon had summoned his son, and they had gone away together.

'I am sure you must be delighted with your uncle and cousin, my dear,' she said.

'He's not a bit my notion of a priest,' returned Nuttie.  'And I don't believe he has any daily
prayers!'

'He is old-fashioned, my dear.'

'One of the stodgey old clergymen in books,' observed Nuttie.  'I didn't think there were any
of that sort left.'

'Oh, my dear, pray don't take fancies into your head!  He is a very, very good man, and has
been most kind to me, far more than I deserve, and he is your uncle, Nuttie.  I do so hope
you will get on well with your cousins.'

Here a gong, a perfectly unknown sound to Nuttie, made itself heard, and rather astonished
her by the concluding roar.  The two ladies came out into the hall as Mr. Egremont was crossing
it.  He made an inclination of the head, and uttered a sort of good morning to his daughter,
but she was perfectly content to have no closer salutation. Having a healthy noonday appetite,
her chief wish was at the moment that those beautiful little cutlets, arranged in a crown form,
were not so very tiny; or that, with two men-servants looking on, it were possible to attain
to a second help, but she had already learnt that Gregorio would not hear her, and that any
attempt to obtain more food frightened her mother.

'So his reverence has been to see you,' observed Mr. Egremont. 'William, if you like it better.'

'Oh yes, and he was kindness itself!'

'And how did Master Mark look at finding I could dispense with his assistance?'

'I think he is very glad.'

Mr. Egremont laughed.  'You are a simple woman, Edda!  The pose of virtuous hero was to have
been full compensation for all that it might cost him!  And no doubt he looks for the reward
of virtue likewise.'

Wherewith he looked full at Ursula, who, to her extreme vexation, felt herself blushing up
to the ears.  She fidgeted on her chair, and began a most untrue 'I'm sure--' for, indeed,
the poor girl was sure of nothing, but that her father's manner was most uncomfortable to her.
His laugh choked whatever she might have said, which perhaps was well, and her mother's cheeks
glowed as much as hers did.

'Did the Canoness--Jane, I mean--come up?' Mr. Egremont went on.

'Mrs. Egremont?  No; she sent word that she is coming after luncheon.'

'Hm!  Then I shall ride out and leave you to her majesty.  Now look you, Alice, you are to
be very careful with William's wife.  She is a Condamine, you know, and thinks no end of herself,
and your position among the women-folk of the county depends more on how she takes you up than
anything else.  But that doesn't mean that you are to let her give herself airs and domineer
over you.  Remember you are the elder brother's wife--Mrs. Egremont of Bridgefield Egremont--and
she is nothing but a parson's wife, and I won't have her meddling in my house. Only don't you
be absurd and offend her, for she can do more for or against you in society than any one else--more's
the pity!'

'Oh! won't you stay and help me receive her?' exclaimed the poor lady, utterly confused by
these contrary directions.

'Not I!  I can't abide the woman! nor she me!'  He added, after a moment, 'You will do better
without me.'

So he went out for his ride, and Ursula asked, 'Oh, mother! what will you do?'

'The best I can, my dear.  They are good people, and are sure to be kinder than I deserve.'

Nuttie was learning that her mother would never so much as hear, far less answer, a remark
on her husband.  It was beginning to make a sore in the young heart that a barrier was thus
rising, where there once had been as perfect oneness and confidence as could exist between
two natures so dissimilar, though hitherto the unlikeness had never made itself felt.

Mrs. Egremont turned the conversation to the establishing themselves in the pavilion, whither
she proceeded to import some fancy-work that she had bought in London, and sent Nuttie to Ronaldson,
who was arranging calceolarias, begonias, and geraniums in the conservatory, to beg for some
cut-flowers for a great dusty-looking vase in the centre of the table.

These were being arranged when Mrs. William Egremont and Miss Blanche Egremont were ushered
in, and there were the regular kindred embraces, after which Alice and Nuttie were aware of
a very handsome, dignified-looking lady, well though simply dressed in what was evidently her
home costume, with a large shady hat and feather, her whole air curiously fitting the imposing
nickname of the Canoness. Blanche was a slight, delicate-looking, rather pretty girl in a lawn-tennis
dress.  The visitor took the part of treating the newcomers as well-established relations.

'We would not inundate you all at once,' she said, 'but the children are all very eager to
see their cousin.  I wish you would come down to the Rectory with me.  My ponies are at the
door.  I would drive you, and Ursula might walk with Blanche.'  And, as Alice hesitated for
a moment, considering how this might agree with the complicated instructions that she had received,
she added, 'Never mind Alwyn.  I saw him going off just before I came up, and he told William
he was going to look at some horses at Hale's, so he is disposed of for a good many hours.'

Alice decided that her husband would probably wish her to comply, and she rejoiced to turn
her daughter in among the cousins, so hats, gloves, and parasols were fetched, and the two
mothers drove away with the two sleek little toy ponies.  By which it may be perceived that
Mrs. William Egremont's first impressions were favourable.

'It is the shortest way through the gardens,' said Blanche.  'Have you been through them yet?'

'Mark walked about with us a little.'

'You'll improve them ever so much.  There are great capabilities. Look, you could have four
tennis courts on this one lawn.  We wanted to have a garden-party up here last year, and father
said we might, but mother thought Uncle Alwyn might think it a liberty; but now you'll have
some delicious ones?  Of course you play lawn-tennis?'

'I have seen it a very few times,' said Nuttie.

'Oh, we must teach you!  Fancy living without lawn-tennis!' said Blanche.  'I always wonder
what people did without it.  Only'--with an effort at antiquarianism--'I believe they had croquet.'

'Aunt Ursula says there weren't garden-parties before croquet came in.'

'How dreadful, Ursula!  Your name's Ursula, isn't it?  Haven't you some jolly little name to
go by?'

'Nuttie.'

'Nuttie!  That's scrumptious!  I'll call you Nuttie, and you may call me Pussycat.'

'That's not so nice as Blanche.'

'Mother won't have me called so when strangers are there, but you aren't a stranger, you know.
You must tell me all about yourself, and how you came never to learn tennis!'

'I had something else to do,' said Nuttie, with dignity.

'Oh, you were in the schoolroom!  I forgot.  Poor little Nuts!'

'At school,' said Ursula.

'Ah, I remember!  But you're out now, aren't you?  I've been out since this spring.  Mother
won't let us come out till we are eighteen, isn't it horrid?  And we were so worked there!
I can tell you a finishing governess is an awful institution!  Poor little Rosie and Adey will
be in for one by and by.  At present they've only got a jolly little Fraulein that they can
do anything they please with.'

'Oh, I wonder if she would tell me of some German books!'

'You don't mean that you want to read German!' and Blanche stood still, and looked at her cousin
in astonishment.

'Why, what else is the use of learning it?'

'Oh, I don't know.  Every one does.  If one went abroad or to court, you know,' said Blanche
vaguely; but Ursula had now a fresh subject of interest; for, on emerging from the shrubbery,
they came in sight of a picturesque but not very architectural church, which had the smallest
proportion of wall and the largest of roof, and a pretty oriel-windowed schoolhouse covered
with clematis.  Nuttie rushed into inquiries about services and schools, and was aghast at
hearing of mere Sundays and saints' days.

'Oh no! father isn't a bit Ritualistic.  I wish he was, it would be so much prettier; and then
he always advertises for curates of moderate views, and they are so stupid.  You never saw
such a stick as we have got now, Mr. Edwards; and his wife isn't a lady, I'm sure.'

Then as to schools, it was an absolute amazement to Nuttie to find that the same plans were
in force as had prevailed when her uncle had come to the living and built that pretty house--nay,
were kept up at his sole expense, because he liked old-fashioned simplicity, and did not choose
to be worried with Government inspection.

'And,' said Blanche, 'every one says our girls work ever so much better, and make nicer servants
than those that are crammed with all sorts of nonsense not fit for them.'

As to the Sunday school.  Mother and the curate take care of that. I'm sure, if you like it,
you can have my class, for I always have a headache there, and very often I can't go.  Only
May pegs away at it, and she won't let me have the boys, who are the only jolly ones, because
she says I spoil them.  But you must be my friend--mind, Nuttie, not May's, for we are nearer
the same age.  When is your birthday?  You must put it down in my book!'

Nuttie, who had tolerable experience of making acquaintance with new girls, was divided between
a sense of Blanche's emptiness, and the warmth excited by her friendliness, as well as of astonishment
at all she heard and saw.

Crossing the straggling, meandering village street, the cousins entered the grounds of the
Rectory, an irregular but well-kept building of the soft stone of the country, all the garden
front of it a deep verandah that was kept open in summer, but closed with glass frames in the
winter--flower-beds lying before it, and beyond a lawn where the young folk were playing at
the inevitable lawn-tennis.

Margaret was not so pretty as Blanche, but had a more sensible face, and her welcome to Ursula
was civil but reserved.  Rosalind and Adela were bright little things, in quite a different
style from their half-sisters, much lighter in complexion and promising to be handsomer women.
They looked full of eagerness and curiosity at the new cousin, whom Blanche set down on a bank,
and proceeded to instruct in the mysteries of the all-important game by comments and criticisms
on the players.

As soon as Mark and Adela had come out conquerors, Ursula was called on to take her first lesson.
May resigned her racket, saying she had something to do, and walked off the field, and carrying
off with her Adela, who, as Blanche said, 'had a spine,' and was ordered to lie down for an
hour every afternoon.  The cheerfulness with which she went spoke well for the training of
the family.

Nuttie was light-footed and dexterous handed, and accustomed to active amusements, so that,
under the tuition of her cousins, she became a promising pupil, and thawed rapidly, even towards
Mark.

She was in the midst of her game when the two mothers came out, for the drive had been extended
all round the park, under pretext of showing it to its new mistress, but really to give the
Canoness an opportunity of judging of her in a tete-a-tete.  Yet that sensible woman had asked
no alarming questions on the past, still less had offered any advice that could seem like interference.
She had only named localities, mentioned neighbours, and made little communications about the
ways of the place such as might elicit remarks; and, as Alice's voice betrayed less and less
constraint, she ventured on speaking of their daughters, so as to draw forth some account of
how Ursula might have been educated.

And of this, Alice was ready and eager to talk, telling how clever and how industrious Nuttie
had always been, and how great an advantage Miss Nugent's kindness was, and how she was hoping
to go up for the Cambridge examination; then, detecting some doubt in her companion's manner,
she said, 'It would be a great disappointment to her not to do so now.  Do you think she had
better not?'

'I don't think she will find time to go on with the preparation! And, to tell the truth, I
don't think we are quite ripe for such things in this county.  We are rather backward, and
Ursula, coming in fresh upon us, might find it a disadvantage to be thought much cleverer than
other people.'

'Ah!  I was not quite sure whether her father would like it.'

'I do not think he would.  I am sure that if my little Rose were to take it into her head,
I should have hard work to get her father's consent, though no doubt the world will have progressed
by the time she is old enough.'

'That settles it,' said Alice.  'Thank you, Mrs. Egremont.  I own,' she added presently, 'that
I do somewhat regret that it cannot be, for I thought that a motive for keeping up her studies
would be helpful to my child;--I do not mean for the sake of the studies, but of the--the balance
in all this change and novelty.'

'You are quite right, I have felt it myself,' said her sister-in-law. 'Perhaps something could
be done by essay societies.  May belongs to one, and if Ursula is an intellectual girl, perhaps
you could keep her up to some regular employment in the morning.  I succeeded in doing so when
May came out, but I can accomplish nothing regular but music with Blanche; and an hour's steady
practice a day is better than nothing.'

The drive was on the whole a success, and so was the tea-drinking in the verandah, where Aunt
Alice and little five-years old Basil became fast friends and mutual admirers; the Canon strolled
out and was installed in the big, cushioned basket-chair that crackled under his weight; Blanche
recounted Nuttie's successes, and her own tennis engagements for the week; Mark lay on a rug
and teased her, and her dachshund; Nuttie listened to the family chatter as if it were a play,
and May dispensed the cups, and looked grave and severe.

'Well?' said the Canon anxiously, when Mark, Blanche, and little Basil had insisted on escorting
the guests home, and he and his wife were for a few minutes tete-a-tete.

'It might have been much worse,' said the lady.  'She is a good little innocent thing, and
has more good sense than I expected. Governessy, that's all, but she will shake out of that.'

'Of course she will.  It's the best thing imaginable for Alwyn!'

His wife kept back the words, 'A hundred times too good for Alwyn!'

CHAPTER XI.

LAWN-TENNIS.

  'Madam, the guests are come, supper served up,
  My young lady asked for!'--Romeo and Juliet.

A garden-party, Mrs. William Egremont decided, would be the best mode of testifying her approbation
of her sister-in-law, and introducing the newcomers to the neighbourhood.  So the invitations
were sent forth for an early day of the coming week.

From how many points of view was Mrs. William Egremont's garden-party regarded, and how different!
There was Basil, to whom it meant wearing his velvet suit and eating as many ices as mother
would allow.  To Blanche, it was an occasion for triumph on the tennis ground for herself,
and for hopes for her pupil; and Ursula herself looked forward to it and practised for it like
a knight for his first encounter in the lists, her sole care being to distinguish herself with
her racket.  To her mother, it was an ordeal, where she trusted not to be a mortification to
her husband and his family; while to the hostess, it was a not unwelcome occasion of exercising
honest diplomacy and tact, not without a sense of magnanimity.  To May, it was a bore to be
endured with dutiful philosophy; to her good-natured father an occasion for hospitality, where
he trusted that his brother would appear, and appear to advantage, and was ready even to bribe
him thereto with that wonderful claret that Alwyn had always envied, and declared to be wasted
on a parson.  And Mark, perhaps he viewed the occasion with different eyes from any one else.
At any rate, even the denizens of Bridgefield mustered there with as many minds as Scott ascribes
to the combatants of Bannockburn, and there were probably as many other circles of feeling
more or less intersecting one another among the more distant guests, most of them, however,
with the same feeling of curiosity as to what this newly-discovered wife and daughter of Alwyn
Egremont might be like.

Externally, in her rich black silk, trimmed with point lace, and her little straw-coloured
bonnet with its tuft of feathery grass and blue cornflower, she was so charming that her daughter
danced round her, crying, 'O mammy, mammy, if they could but see you at home'--then, at a look:
'Well then--Aunt Ursel, and Miss Mary, and Mr. Dutton!'

Nuttie was very much pleased with her own pretty tennis dress; but she had no personal vanity
for herself, only for her mother.  The knowledge that she was no beauty was no grievance to
her youthful spirits; but when her father surveyed them in the hall, she looked for his verdict
for her mother as if their relations were reversed.

'Ha!  Well, you certainly are a pretty creature, Edda,' he said graciously.  'You'll pass muster!
You want nothing but style.  And, hang it! you'll do just as well without it, if the Canoness
will only do you justice.  Faces like that weren't given for nothing.'

She blushed incarnadine and accepted one of his kisses with a pleasure, at which Nuttie wondered,
her motherly affection prompting her to murmur in his ear--

'And Ursula?'

'She'll not cut you out; but she is Egremont enough to do very fairly. Going already?'

'If you would come with us,' she said wistfully, to the horror of Nuttie, who was burning to
be at the beginning of all the matches.

'I? oh no!  I promised old Will to look in, but that won't be till late in the day, or I shall
have to go handing all the dowagers into the dining-room to tea.'

'Then I think we had better go on.  They asked us to come early, so as to see people arrive
and know who they are.'

They was a useful pronoun to Alice, who felt it a liberty to call her grand-looking sister-in-law,
Jane--was too well-bred to term her Mrs. William.

The mother and daughter crossed the gardens, Nuttie chattering all the way about the tennis
tactics she had picked up from Blanche, while her mother answered her somewhat mechanically,
wondering, as her eye fell on the square squat gray church tower, what had become of the earnest
devotion to church work and intellectual pursuits that used to characterise the girl.  True,
always both mother and daughter had hitherto kept up their church-going, and even their Sunday-school
habits, nor had any hindrance come in their way, Mr. Egremont apparently acquiescing in what
he never shared.  But these things seemed, in Ursula's mind, to have sunk out of the proportion
they held at Bridgefield, no longer to be the spirit of a life, but mere Sunday duties and
occupations.

Was this wicked world getting a hold of the poor child?  Which was duty? which was the world?
This was the thought that perplexed Alice, too simple as yet to perceive that Ursula's former
absorption had been in the interests that surrounded her and her companions, exactly as they
were at present, and that the real being had yet to work itself out.

For herself, Alice did not think at all.  She was rejoicing in her restored husband, and his
evident affection.  Her duty towards him was in her eyes plain.  She saw, of course, that he
had no religion, but she accepted the fact like that of bad weather; she loved him, and she
loved her daughter; she said her prayers with all her heart for them, she hoped, and she did
her best, without trying to go below the surface.

There was the Rectory gate wide open.  There was Basil rushing up to greet his dear Aunt Alice,
there were all the windows and doors of the Rectory open, and the nearer slopes covered with
chairs and seats of all dimensions, some under trees, some umbelliferous, and glowing Afghan
rugs, or spotted skins spread for those who preferred the ground.  There was Blanche flitting
about wild with excitement, and pouncing on Nuttie to admire her outfit, and reiterate instructions;
there were the two younger girls altering the position of chairs according to their mother's
directions; there were actually two guests--not very alarming ones, only the curate and his
wife, both rather gaunt, bony people.  He was button-holing the Canon, and she was trying to
do the same by the Canoness about some parish casualty. The Canon hoped to escape in the welcome
to his sister-in-law and niece, but he was immediately secured again, while his wife found
it requisite to hurry off else where, leaving Mrs. Edwards to tell her story to Mrs. Egremont.
In point of fact, Alice really liked the good lady, was quite at ease with her, and felt parish
concerns a natural element, so that she gave full heed and attention to the cruelty of Mrs.
Parkins' depriving Betsy Butter (with an old father and mother to support) of her family washing,
on the ground of a missing pocket handkerchief, the which Mrs. Edwards believed to have been
abstracted by the favourite pickle of Miss Blanche's class, if only a confession could be elicited
from him when undefended by his furious mother.  Mrs. Egremont was listening with actual interest
and sympathy to the history of Betsy Butter's struggles, and was inquiring the way to her cottage,
when she was called off to be introduced to the arrivals who were beginning to flood the lawn.
She presently saw May, who had just come down, walking up and down with Mrs. Edwards, evidently
hearing the story of the handkerchief.  She thought it had been Nuttie for a moment.  There
was a general resemblance between the cousins that made them be mistaken for one another several
times in the course of the day, since their dresses, though not alike, were of the same make
and style.

Thus it was that as Nuttie was sitting on the grass in earnest contemplation of Blanche's play,
a hand was familiarly laid on her shoulder, and a voice said,  'I haven't seen that horrid
girl yet!'

After so many introductions, Nuttie had little idea whom she knew, or whom she did not know.
She looked up and saw a small person in light blue, with the delicate features, transparent
skin, and blue eyes that accompany yellow hair, with an indescribable glitter of mirth and
joyousness about the whole creature, as if she were part and parcel of the sunbeam in which
she stood.

'What horrid girl?' said Nuttie.

'The interloper, the newly-discovered savage, come to upset--Ah!'--with a little shriek--'It
isn't May!  I beg your pardon.'

'I'm May's cousin,' said Nuttie, 'Ursula Egremont.'

'Oh, oh!' and therewith the fact burst on both girls at once.  They stood still a moment in
dismay, then the stranger went into a fit of laughter.  'Oh, I beg your pardon!  I can't help
it!  It is so funny!'

Nuttie was almost infected, though somewhat hurt.  'Who said I was horrid?' she asked.

'Nobody!  Nobody but me--Annaple Ruthven--and they'll all tell you, May and all, that I'm always
putting my foot in it.  And I never meant that you were horrid--you yourself--you know--only--'

'Only nobody wanted us here,' said Nuttie; 'but we could not help it.'

'Of course not.  It was shocking, just my way.  Please forgive me!' and she looked most pleading.
Nuttie held out her hand with something about 'No one could mind;' and therewith Annaple cried,
'Oh, if you don't mind, we can have our laugh out!' and the rippling laughter did set Nuttie
off at once.  The peal was not over when May herself was upon them demanding what was the joke.

'Oh, there she is!  The real May!  Why,' said Annaple, kissing her, 'only think here I've been
and gone and thought this was you, and inquired about--What was it?--the awful monster--the
chimera dire--that Mark had routed up--'

'No; you didn't say that,' said Nuttie, half provoked.

'Never mind what I said.  Don't repeat it.  I only wish myself and every one else to forget
it.  Now it is swept to the winds by a good wholesome giggling.  But what business have you
two to be so inconveniently alike?  You are as bad as the twin Leslies!'

'There's an old foremother on the staircase in white satin who left her looks to us both,'
said May.

'You'll have to wear badges,' said Annaple.  'You know the Leslies were so troublesome that
one had to be shipped off to the East Indies and the other to the West.'

'They married, that's all,' said May, seeing Nuttie looking mystified; and at that moment,
Blanche's side coming out victorious, Nuttie descended into the arena to congratulate and be
asked to form part of the next set.

'Well, that was a scrape!' said Annaple; 'but she wasn't bad about it! I must do something
to make up for it somehow--get Janet to invite her, but really Janet is in such a state of
mind that I am mildness itself compared with her.  She would not have come, only John was curious,
and declared he should go whether we did or not.'

'Ah!' said May, 'I saw him, like the rest of mankind, at madame's feet.'

'Oh! is she of that sort?'

'No,' said May, 'not at all.  Mother and father too both think she is good to the backbone;
but she is very pretty, with just the inane soft sweetness that men rave about--innocent really.
All accounts of her are excellent, and she has nice parish ways, and will be as helpful as
Uncle Alwyn will let her.'

'But she couldn't always have been nice?'

'Well, I verily believe it was all Uncle Alwyn's and grandmamma's fault.  I know Mark thinks so.'

'When the women of a family acquit a woman it goes for something,' said Annaple.  'That's not
original, my dear, I heard old Lady Grosmede say so to Janet when she was deliberating over
the invitation, "For a good deal more than Mr. Mark's, at any rate.'"

'Mark is very fond of her--the mother, I mean.  He says when he was a little fellow her loss
was worse to him than even our mother's.'

'Do you remember the catastrophe?'

'Not a bit.  Only when she is petting Basil it strikes me that I have heard the tones before.
I only remember the time of misery under the crosspatches grandmamma got for us.'

'Well, it was a splendid cutting of his own throat in Mark,' said Annaple, 'so it ought to
turn out well.'

'I don't know how it is to turn out for Mark,' answered May.  'Oh, here he comes!'

'Will you come into this set, Annaple?' he asked.  'They want another couple,' and, as she
accepted,  'How do you get on with May's double?'

'I pity May for having such a double.'

'Don't encourage her by misplaced pity.'

'It's abominable altogether!  I want to fly at somebody!'

'Exhaust your feelings on your racket, and reflect that you see a man released from bondage.'

'Is that philosophy or high-faluting?' she said in a teasing tone as the game began.

The Ruthvens had very blue blood in their veins, but as there were nine of the present generation,
they possessed little beyond their long pedigree; even the head of the family, Lord Ronnisglen,
being forced to live as a soldier, leaving his castle to grouse shooters. His seven brothers
had fared mostly in distant lands as they could, and his mother had found a home, together
with her youngest child, at Lescombe, where her eldest was the wife of Sir John Delmar.  Lady
Ronnisglen was an invalid, confined to the house, and Lady Delmar had daughters fast treading
on the heels of Annabella, so christened, but always called Annaple after the old Scottish
queens, her ancestors. She had been May Egremont's chief friend ever since her importation
at twelve years old, and the intimacy had been promoted by her mother and sister.  Indeed,
the neighbourhood had looked on with some amusement at the competition ascribed to Lady Delmar
and to the wealthy parvenu, Mrs. West, for the heir-presumptive of Bridgefield Egremont.

Annaple's lightness and dexterity rendered her the best of the lady tennis-players, and the
less practised Ursula found herself defeated in the match, in spite of a partner whose play
was superior to Mark's, and with whom she shyly walked off to eat ices.

'I see,' said Annaple, 'it is a country-town edition of May.  I shan't blunder between them again.'

'She will polish,' said Mark, 'but she is not equal to her mother.'

'Whom I have not seen yet.  Ah, there's Mr. Egremont!  Why, he looks quite renovated!'

'Well he may be!'

'But Mark, not to hurt your feelings, he must have behaved atrociously.'

'I'm not going to deny it,' said Mark.

'I always did think he looked like it,' said Annaple.

'When have you seen him before?'

'Only once, but it was my admirable sagacity, you understand?  I always see all the villains
in books just on his model.  Oh, but who's that? How very pretty!  You don't mean it is she!
Well, she might be the heroine of anything!'

'Isn't she lovely?'

'And has she been keeping school like Patience on a monument all these years?  It doesn't seem
to have much damaged her damask cheek!'

'It was only daily governessing.  She looks much better than when I first saw her; and as to
the damask--why, that's deepened by the introduction to old Lady Grosmede that is impending.'

'She is being walked up to the old Spanish duck with the red rag round her leg to receive her
fiat.  What a thing it is to be a bearded Dowager, and rule one's neighbourhood!'

'I think she approves.  She has made room for her by her side.  Is she going to catechise her?'

Annaple made an absurd sound of mingled pity and disgust.

'Not that she--my aunt, I mean--need be afraid.  The shame is all on the other side.'

'And I think Lady Grosmede has too much sense to think the worse of her for having worked for
herself,' added Annaple.  'If it was not for mother I should long to begin!'

'You?  It's a longing well known to me!--but you!'

'Exactly!  As the Irishman felt blue moulded for want of a bating, so do I feel fagged out
for want of an honest day's work.'

'If one only knew what to turn to,' said Mark so wearily that Annaple exclaimed,

'We seem to be in the frozen-out state of mind, and might walk up and down singing "I've got
no work to do,"'--to which she gave the well known intonation.

'Too true,' said he, joining in the hum.

'But I thought you were by way of reading law.'

'One must see more than only "by way of" in these days to do any good.'

At that moment Basil ran up with a message that Lady Delmar was ready to go home.

They walked slowly up the terrace and Mark paused as they came near Mrs. Egremont to say, 'Aunt
Alice, here is Miss Ruthven, May's great friend.'

Annaple met a pleasant smile, and they shook hands, exchanging an observation or two, while
a little way off Lady Grosmede was nodding her strong old face at Lady Delmar, and saying,
'Tell your mother I'll soon come and see her, my dear.  That's a nice little innocent body,
lady-like, and thoroughly presentable.  Alwyn Egremont might have done worse.'

'The only wonder is he did not!' returned Lady Delmar.  'They make the best of it here.'

'Very good taste of them.  But, now I've seen her, I don't believe there's anything behind.
Very hard upon the poor young man, though it was all his doing, his mother says.  I congratulate
you that it had not gone any farther in that quarter.'

'Oh, dear no!  Never dreamt of it.  She is May's friend, that's all.'

Nevertheless Lady Delmar made a second descent in person to hurry Annaple away.

'Isn't it disgusting?' said May, catching her stepmother's smile.

'You will see a good deal more of the same kind,' said the Canoness; 'I am afraid more mortification
is in store for Mark than he guesses. I wish that girl were more like her mother.'

'Mamma! a girl brought up among umbrella-makers!  Just fancy!  Why, she has just nothing in her!'

'Don't set Mark against her, May; he might do worse.'

'Her head is a mere tennis ball,' said May, drawing her own higher than ever, 'and no one would
know her from a shop girl.'

'She is young enough,' said the Canoness.  'Don't class me with Lady Delmar, May--I only say--if--and
that I don't think you realise the change Mark will feel.'

'Better so than sell himself,' muttered May.

CHAPTER XII.

OUT OF WORK.

  'I'm seeking the fruit that's nae growing.'--Ballad.

Society recognised the newcomers.  Lady Grosmede's card appeared the next day, and was followed
by showers of others, and everybody asked everybody 'Have you seen Mrs. Egremont?'

It was well for Alice's happiness even at home that she was a success. When Alwyn Egremont
had been lashed by his nephew's indignant integrity into tardy recognition of the wife of his
youth, it had been as if he had been forced to pick up a flower which he had thrown away. 
He had considerable doubts whether it would answer. First, he reconnoitred, intending, if he
found a homely or faded being, to pension her off; but this had been prevented by her undeniable
beauty and grace, bringing up a rush of such tender associations as he was capable of.  Yet
even then, her position depended on the impression she might make on those about him, on her
own power of self-assertion, and on her contributing to his comfort or pleasure.

Of self-assertion Alice had none, only a gentle dignity in her simplicity, and she was so absolutely
devoted to him that he found his house far more pleasant and agreeable for her presence and
unfailing attention, though still his estimation of her was influenced more than he owned to
himself by that of the world in general, and the Rectory in particular.

And the Rectory did its part well.  The Canon was not only charmed with the gentle lady, but
felt an atonement due to her; and his wife, without ever breathing into any ears, save his,
the mysterious adjective 'governessy,' praised her right and left, confiding to all inquirers
the romance of the burnt yacht, the lost bride, and the happy meeting under Lady Kirkaldy's
auspices, with the perfect respectability of the intermediate career, while such was the universal
esteem for, and trust in herself and the Canon, that she was fully believed; and people only
whispered that probably Alwyn Egremont had been excused for the desertion more than he deserved.

The subject of all this gossip troubled herself about it infinitely less than did the good
Canoness.  In effect she did not know enough of the world to think about it at all.  Her cares
were of a different order, chiefly caused by tenderness of conscience, and solicitude to keep
the peace between the two beings whom she best loved.

Two things were in her favour in this latter respect, one that they saw very little of each
other, since Mr. Egremont seldom emerged from his own rooms till after luncheon; and the other
that Ursula's brains ran to little but lawn-tennis for the ensuing weeks.  To hold a champion's
place at the tournaments, neck and neck with her cousin Blanche, and defeat Miss Ruthven, and
that veteran player, Miss Basset, was her foremost ambition, and the two cousins would have
practised morning, noon, and night if their mothers would have let them.  There need have been
no fear of Ursula's rebellion about the Cambridge honours, she never seemed even to think of
them, and would have had no time in the more important competition of rackets. Indeed, it was
almost treated as a hardship that the pair were forbidden to rush together before twelve o'clock,
and that Ursula's mother insisted on rational home occupation until that time, setting the
example herself by letter-writing, needlework, and sharing in the music which was a penance
to the girl, only enforced by that strong sense of protecting affection which forbade rebellion.
But Alice could hope that their performances were pleasant to her husband in the evening, if
only to sleep by, and so she persisted in preparing for them.

Nuttie's rage for tennis, and apparent forgetfulness of her old life and aspirations, might
be disappointing, but it conduced to make her mother's task easier than if she had been her
original, critical, and protesting self.  In the new and brilliant surroundings she troubled
herself much less than could have been expected at the failure of her father, his house, nay,
and of the parish itself, in coming up to the St. Ambrose standard.  How much was owing to
mere novelty and intoxication, how much to a yet unanalysed disappointment, how much to May's
having thrown her upon the more frivolous Blanche, could not be guessed.  The effect was unsatisfactory
to her mother, but a certain relief, for Nuttie's aid would have been only mischievous in the
household difficulties that weighed on the anxious conscience. Good servants would not stay
at Bridgefield Hall for unexplained causes, which their mistress believed to be connected with
Gregorio, or with the treasure of a cook-housekeeper over whom she was forbidden to exercise
any authority, and who therefore entirely neglected all meals which the master did not share
with the ladies. Fortunately, Mr. Egremont came in one day at their luncheon and found nothing
there but semi-raw beef, upon which there was an explosion; and being by this time convinced
that his wife both would and could minister to his comfort, her dominion was established in
the female department, though, as long as Gregorio continued paramount with his master, and
the stables remained in their former state, it was impossible to bring matters up to the decorous
standard of the Rectory, and if ever his mistress gave an order he did not approve, Gregorio
overruled it as her ignorance.  In fact, he treated both the ladies with a contemptuous sort
of civility.  Meantime Mr. Egremont was generally caressing and admiring in his ways towards
his wife, with only occasional bursts of temper when anything annoyed him.  He was proud of
her, gave her a liberal allowance, and only refused to be troubled; and she was really happy
in his affection, for which she felt a gratitude only too humble in the eyes of her daughter.

They had parties.  Blanche's ambition of tennis courts all over the lawn was fulfilled, and
sundry dinners, which were crosses to Alice, who had neither faculty nor training for a leader
and hostess, suffered much from the menu, more from the pairing of her guests, more again in
catching her chief lady's eye after, and most of all from her husband's scowls and subsequent
growls and their consequence, for Ursula broke out, 'It is not fair to blame my mother.  How
should she have all the savoir-faire, or what you may call it, of Aunt Jane, when she has had
no practice?'

'Perhaps, Mrs. Egremont,' he retorted with extreme suavity, 'you will also attend to your daughter's
manners.'  Otherwise he took little notice of Ursula, viewing her perhaps, as did the neighbourhood,
as a poor imitation of May, without her style, or it may be with a sense that her tongue might
become inconvenient if not repressed.  When he began to collect sporting guests of his own
calibre in the shooting season, the Canoness quietly advised her sister-in-law to regard them
as gentlemen's parties, and send Ursula down to spend the evening with her cousins; and to
this no objection was made.  Mr. Egremont wanted his beautiful wife at the head of his table,
and his guests never comported themselves unsuitably before her; but nobody wanted the unformed
girl, and she and Blanche were always happy together.

The chief restraint was when Mark was at home, and that was not always. He made sundry visits
and expeditions, and was altogether in an uncomfortable condition of reaction and perplexity
as to his future. He was a good and conscientious fellow, and had never been actually idle,
but had taken education and life with the easiness of the prospective heir to a large property;
and though he had acquitted himself creditably, it was with no view of making his powers marketable.
Though he had been entered at the Temple, it was chiefly in order to occupy himself respectably,
and to have a nominal profession, so as not to be wholly dependent on his uncle; and all that
he had acquired was the conviction that it would be half a lifetime, if not a whole one, before
the law would afford him a maintenance.

His father wished him to take Holy Orders with a view to the reversion of the Rectory, but
Mark's estimate of clerical duty and vocation was just such as to make him shrink from them.
He was three-and-twenty, an awkward age for all those examinations that stand as lions in the
face of youth intended for almost any sort of service, and seldom or never to be gagged by
interest.  For one indeed, he went up and failed, and in such a manner as to convince him that
cramming had more to do than general culture with success.

He had a certain consciousness that most people thought another way open to him, most decidedly
his gentle aunt, and perhaps even his parents.  The matter came prominently before him one
day at luncheon, when, some parochial affairs being on hand and Mr. Egremont out for the day,
Alice, whose free forenoons enabled her to take a share in church and parish affairs, was there,
as well as the curate and his wife.

These good people were in great commotion about a wedding about to take place between a young
farmer and his delicate first cousin, the only survivor of a consumptive family.

'"Proputty, proputty,"' quoted the Canon.  'James Johnson is what they call a warm man.'

'It is a sin and a shame,' said Mrs. Edwards.  'What can they expect? George Johnson looks
strong enough now, but they tell me his brother undoubtedly died of decline, though they called
it inflammation; but there was tubercular disease.'

'I am afraid it is strong in the family,' said the Canoness, 'they all have those clear complexions;
but I do believe George is heartily in love with poor little Emily.'

'First cousins ought to be in the table of degrees,' said Mr. Edwards.

'It is always a question whether the multiplying of prohibitions without absolute necessity
is expedient,' said the Canon.

He spoke quite dispassionately, but the excellent couple were not remarkable for tact.  Mrs.
Edwards gave her husband such a glance of warning and consternation as violently inclined May
to laugh, and he obediently and hesitatingly began, 'Oh yes, sir, I beg your pardon. Of course
there may be instances,' thereby bringing an intense glow of carnation into Alice's cheeks,
while the Canon, ready for the occasion, replied, 'And George Johnson considers himself one
of them. He will repair the old moat house, I suppose.'

And his wife, though she would rather have beaten Mrs. Edwards, demanded how many blankets
would be wanted that winter.

The effect of this little episode was that Mark announced to his father that evening his strong
desire to emigrate, an intention which the Canon combated with all his might.  He was apparently
a hale and hearty man, but he had had one or two attacks of illness that made him doubt whether
he would be long-lived; and not only could he not bear to have his eldest son out of reach,
but he dreaded leaving his family to such a head as his brother.  Mark scarcely thought the
reasons valid, considering the rapidity of communication with Canada, but it was not possible
to withstand the entreaties of a father with tears in his eyes; and though he could not bring
himself to consent to preparing to be his father's curate, he promised to do nothing that would
remove him to another quarter of the world, and in two or three days more, started for Monks
Horton to see what advice his uncle and aunt there could give him; indeed, Lord Kirkaldy's
influence was reckoned on by his family almost as a sure card in the diplomatic line.

The Kirkaldys were very fond of Mark, and had an odd feeling of being accountable for the discovery
which had changed his prospects.  They would have done anything for him that they could, but
all Lord Kirkaldy's interest was at the foreign office, or with his fellow-diplomates, and
here he soon found an insuperable bar.  Mark's education had stood still from the time of Miss
Headworth's flight till his father's second marriage, his energies having been solely devoted
to struggles with the grim varieties of governess purveyed by his grandmother, and he had thus
missed all chance of foundation of foreign languages, and when once at school, he had shared
in the average English boy's contempt and aversion for the French masters who outscreamed a
whole class.

In consequence, Lord Kirkaldy, an accurate and elegant scholar in European tongues, besides
speaking them with the cosmopolitan ease of an ambassador's son, was horrified, not only at
Mark's pronunciation, but at his attempts at letter-writing and translation, made with all
the good will in the world, but fit for nothing but to furnish the good stories which the kind
uncle refrained from telling any one but his wife.  Unluckily, too, a Piedmontese family, some
of them not strong in their English, were on a visit at Monks Horton, and the dialect in which
the old marquis and Mark tried at times to interchange ideas about pheasants was something
fearful.  And as in the course of a week Mark showed no signs of improvement in vernacular
French or Italian, Lord Kirkaldy's conscience would let him give no other advice than that
his nephew should stick to English law living still on the allowance his father gave him, and
hoping for one of the chance appointments open to an English barrister of good family and fair
ability.

Of course Mark had gone at once to carry tidings of 'Aunt Alice,' as he scrupulously called
her, to old Miss Headworth, whom his aunt had continued to visit at intervals.  That good lady
had given up her boarders, having realised enough to provide for her own old age, and she had
joined forces with the Nugents, Mary being very thankful to have her companionship for Mrs.
Nugent, who was growing too blind and feeble to be satisfactorily left alone all day.

Mark delighted the old ladies by his visits and accounts of their darling's success and popularity,
which he could paint so brightly that they could not help exulting, even though there might
be secret misgivings as to the endurance of these palmy days.  He was a great hero in their
eyes, and they had too good taste to oppress him with their admiration, so that he really was
more at ease in their little drawing-room than anywhere at Monks Horton, whither the Italians
could penetrate.  The marchesino spoke English very well, but that was all the worse for Mark,
since it gave such a sense of inferiority.  He was an intelligent man too, bent on being acquainted
with English industries of all kinds; and thus it was that a party was organised to see the
umbrella factory.  It was conducted by Mr. Dutton, with whom Lord Kirkaldy, between charities
and public business, had become acquainted.

To Mark's secret shame, this manufacturer spoke French perfectly, and even got into such a
lively conversation with the old marquis about Cavour, that Lord Kirkaldy begged him to come
to dinner and continue it.  They were all surprised, not only by the details of the manufacture
and the multitude of artizans, male and female, whom it employed, but by the number of warehouse-clerks
whom they found at work, and who, it appeared, were in correspondence with agencies and depots
in London and all the principal towns in the kingdom.  Gerard Godfrey was there,--casting looks
askance at the young Egremont, whom he regarded as a kind of robber.

The marchesino asked from what class these young men were taken, and Mr. Dutton made reply
that most of them were sons of professional men. If they could obtain a small capital and take
shares in the business they were encouraged to do so, and rose to the headship of the agencies,
obtaining a fair income.

'And you don't exact an examination,' said Mark.

'Except in handwriting and book-keeping,' said Mr. Dutton.

'Poor Mark, you look for your bugbear everywhere!' sighed his aunt.

They went over the Institute, coffee-rooms, eating-rooms, and lodging-houses, by which the
umbrella firm strove to keep their hands respectable and contented, and were highly pleased
with all, most especially with Mr. Dutton, who, though his name did not come prominently forward,
had been the prime mover and contriver of all these things, and might have been a wealthier
man if he had not undertaken expenses which he could not charge upon the company.

Gerard Godfrey came in to Mrs. Nugent's that evening in the lowest spirits.  He had a sister
married to a curate in the same county with Bridgefield, and she had sent him a local paper
which 'understood that a marriage was arranged between Mark de Lyonnais Egremont, Esquire,
and Ursula, daughter of Alwyn Piercefield Egremont, Esquire, of Bridgefield Egremont,' and
he could not help coming to display it to Miss Headworth in all its impertinence and prematurity.

'Indeed he said nothing to me about it,' said Miss Headworth, 'and I think he would if it had
been true.'

'No doubt he intends it, and is trying to recommend himself through you,' said Gerard.

'I should not think he needed that,' returned Aunt Ursel, 'though I should be very glad, I
am sure.  He is an excellent young man, and it is quite the obvious thing.'

'People don't always do the obvious thing,' put in Mary Nugent.

'Certainly it didn't look like it,' said Miss Headworth,' when he told us about the great annual
Hunt Ball at Redcastle that Nuttie and his sister Blanche are to come out at; he said he did
not intend to go home for it if he could help it.'

'Struggling against fate,' said Miss Nugent.

'The puppy!' burst out Gerard.

Having ascertained the particulars of this same Hunt Ball, Gerard became possessed with a vehement
desire to visit his sister, and so earnestly solicited a few days' leave of absence that it
was granted to him.  'Poor boy, he may settle down when he has ascertained what an ass he is,'
said Mr. Dutton.

'Ah!' said Mary.  'I thought he was very bad when I saw he had not changed the green markers
for St. Luke's Day.'

CHAPTER XIII.

DETRIMENTALS.

  'That tongue of yours at times wags more than charity allows;
   And if you're strong, be merciful, great woman of three cows.'
                                                     --J. O. MANGAN.

Nine miles was a severe distance through country lanes in November to go to a ball; but the
Redcastle Hunt Ball was the ball of the year, uniting all the county magnates; and young ladies
were hardly reckoned as 'come out' till they had appeared there.  Mrs. Egremont's position
would hardly be established till she had been presented to the notabilities who lived beyond
calling intercourse; and her husband prepared himself to be victimised with an amount of grumbling
that was intended to impress her with the magnitude of the sacrifice, but which only made her
offer to forego the gaiety, and be told that she would never have any common sense.

So their carriage led the way, and was followed by the Rectory waggonette containing the ladies
and Mark, who had been decisively summoned home, since his stepmother disliked public balls
without a gentleman in attendance, and his father was not to be detached from his fireside.

And in a group near the door, got up as elaborately as his powers could accomplish, stood Gerard
Godfrey.  He knew nobody there except a family in his sister's parish, who had good-naturedly
given him a seat in their fly, and having fulfilled his duty by asking the daughter to dance,
he had nothing to disturb him in watching for the cynosure whose attraction had led him into
these unknown regions, and, as he remembered with a qualm, on the eve of St. Britius. However,
with such a purpose, one might surely grant oneself a dispensation from the vigil of a black
letter saint.

There at length he beheld the entrance.  There was the ogre himself, high bred, almost handsome,
as long as he was not too closely scrutinised, and on his arm the well-known figure, metamorphosed
by delicately-tinted satin sheen and pearls, and still more by the gentle blushing gladness
on the fair cheeks and the soft eyes that used to droop.  Then followed a stately form in mulberry
moire and point lace, leaning on Gerard's more especial abhorrence,--'that puppy,' who had
been the author of all the mischief; and behind them three girls, one in black, the other two
in white, and, what was provoking, he really could not decide which was Ursula.  The carefully-dressed
hair and stylish evening dress and equipments had altogether transformed the little homely
schoolgirl, so that, though he was sure that she was not the fair-haired damsel with pale blue
flowers, he did not know how to decide between the white and daisies and the black and grasses.
Indeed, he thought the two whites most likely to be sisters, and all the more when the black
lace halted to exchange greetings with some one, and her face put on an expression so familiar
to him, that he started forward and tried to catch her eye; but in vain, and he suffered agonies
of doubt whether she had been perverted by greatness.

It was some comfort that, when presently a rush of waiters floated by, she was not with her
cousin; but to provoke him still more, as the daisies neared him, he beheld for a moment in
the whirl the queer smile, half-frightened, half-exultant, which he had seen on Nuttie's face
when swinging sky-high!

When the pause came and people walked about, the black lady stood talking so near him that
he ventured at last on a step forward and an eager 'Miss Egremont,' but, as she turned, he
found himself obliged to say, 'I beg your pardon.'

'Did you mean my cousin.  We often get mistaken for each other,' said May civilly.

He brightened.  'I beg your pardon,' he said, 'I knew her at Micklethwayte.  I am here--quite
by accident.  Mrs. Elmore was so good as to bring me.'

May was rather entertained.  'There's my cousin,' she said, 'Lord Philip Molyneux is asking
her to dance,' and she left him most unnecessarily infuriated with Lord Philip Molyneux.

A steward introduced him to a dull-looking girl, but fortune favoured him, for this time he
did catch the real Nuttie's eye, and all herself, as soon as the dance was over, she came up
with outstretched hands, 'Oh Gerard! to think of your being here!  Come to mother!'

And, beautiful and radiant, Mrs. Egremont was greeting him, and there were ten minutes of delicious
exchange of news.  But 'pleasures are as poppies fled,' Nuttie had no dance to spare, her card
was full, and she had not learnt fashionable effrontery enough to play tricks with engagements,
and just then Mr. Egremont descended on them--'I wish to introduce you to the Duchess,' he
said to his wife; and on the way he demanded--'Who is that young cub?'

'Gerard Godfrey--an old neighbour.'

'I thought I had seen him racketing about there with Ursula.  I'll not have those umbrella
fellows coming about!'

'Does he really make umbrellas, Nuttie?' asked Blanche, catching her hand.

'No such thing!' said Nuttie hotly, 'he is in the office.  His father was a surgeon; his sisters
married clergymen!'

'And he came here to meet you,' said Annaple Ruthven.  'Poor fellow, what a shame it is!  Can't
you give him one turn!

'Oh dear!  I'm engaged all through!  To Mark this time.'

'Give him one of the extras!  Throw Mark over to me!  No,' as she looked at the faces of the
two girls, 'I suppose that wouldn't do, but I'm free this time--I'm not the fashion.  Introduce
me; I'll do my best as consolation.'

Nuttie had just performed the feat, with great shyness, when Mark appeared, having been sent
in quest of his cousin, when her father perceived that she had hung back.

Poor Gerard led off Miss Ruthven the more gloomily, and could not help sighing out, 'I suppose
that is an engagement!'

'Oh! you believe that impertinent gossip in the paper,' returned Annaple.  'I wonder they don't
contradict it; but perhaps they treat it with magnificent scorn.'

'No doubt they know that it is only premature.'

'If they means the elders, I daresay they wish it, but we aren't in France or Italy.'

'Then you don't think, Miss Ruthven, that it will come off?'

'I don't see the slightest present prospect,' said Annaple, unable to resist the kindly impulse
of giving immediate pleasure, though she knew the prospect might be even slighter for her partner.

However, he 'footed it' all the more lightly and joyously for the assurance, and the good-natured
maiden afterwards made him conduct her to the tea-room, whither Mark and Nuttie were also tending,
and there all four contrived to get mixed up together; and Nuttie had time to hear of Monsieur's
new accomplishment of going home for Mr. Dutton's luncheon and bringing it in a basket to the
office, before fate again descended; Mr. Egremont, who had been at the far end of the room
among some congeners, who preferred stronger refreshment, suddenly heard her laugh, stepped
up, and, with a look of thunder towards her, observed in a low voice, 'Mark, you will oblige
me by taking your cousin back to her mother.'

'The gray tyrant father,' murmured Annaple in sympathy.  'That being the case, I may as well
go back in that direction also.'

This resulted in finding Lady Delmar and the two Mrs. Egremonts together, comparing notes about
the two different roads to Redcastle from their several homes.

Lady Delmar was declaring that her coachman was the most obstinate man in existence, and that
her husband believed in him to any extent.

'Which way did you come?' she asked.

'By Bankside Lane,' said the Canoness.

'Over Bluepost Bridge!  There, Janet,' said Annaple.

'So much the worse.  I know we shall come to grief over Bluepost Bridge, and now there will
be treble weight to break it down.  I dreamt it, I tell you, and there's second sight in the
family.'

'Yes, but you should tell what you did dream, Janet,' said her sister. 'She thought Robinson,
the coachman, was waltzing with her over it, and they went into a hole and stuck fast, while
the red-flag traction engineman prodded her with an umbrella till she was all over blood. Now,
if it had been anything rational, I should have thought something of her second sight!  I tell
her 'twas suggested by--

         "London Bridge is broken down,
          Dance o'er my lady Lee!"'

'Well, I am quite certain those traction-engines will break it some time or other,' said Lady
Delmar.  'I am always trying to get John to bring it before the magistrates, but he only laughs
at me, and nothing will induce Robinson to go the other way, because they have just been mending
the road on Lescombe Hill!  Annaple, my dear, I can't allow you another waltz; Mark must excuse
you--I am going.  It is half-past two, and the carriage was ordered at two!  Robinson will
be in a worse temper than ever if we keep him waiting.'

She bore her sister off to the cloak-room, and there, nearly an hour later, the Egremonts found
them still waiting the pleasure of the implacable Robinson; but what was that in consideration
of having kept her sister from such a detrimental as poor Mark had become?  So muttered Mr.
Egremont, in the satisfaction of having himself, with gentlemanly severity, intimated the insuperable
gulf between Miss Egremont of Bridgefield and the Man of Umbrellas.

Moreover, his sister-in-law took care that he should hear that the Duchess of Redcastle had
pronounced his wife sweetly pretty and lady-like, and talked of inviting them for a visit of
a few nights.

'A bore,' observed he ungratefully, ''tis as dull as ditchwater.' But, in truth, though the
Canon's family, when in residence, were intimate with the ducal family, Alwyn Egremont had
never been at the castle since the days of his earliest youth, and he was not quite prepared
to owe his toleration there to his wife's charms, or the Canoness's patronage of her.

And innocent Alice only knew that everybody had been very kind to her, and it was only a pity
that her husband did not like her to notice poor Gerard Godfrey.

CHAPTER XIV.

GOING AGEE.

  'Gin ye were a brig as auld as me.'--BURNS.

'What's the matter?' exclaimed Mrs. Egremont, waking from a doze,--'that bridge?'

'Bridge!  Don't be such a fool!  We aren't near it yet.'

The servant, his face looking blurred through the window, came to explain that the delay was
caused by an agricultural engine, which had chosen this unlucky night, or morning, to travel
from one farm to another.  There was a long delay, while the monster could be heard coughing
frightfully before it could be backed with its spiky companion into a field so as to let the
carriages pass by; and meantime Mr. Egremont was betrayed into uttering ejaculations which
made poor Nuttie round her eyes in the dark as she sat by his feet on the back seat, and Alice
try to bury her ears in her hood in the corner.

On they went at last, for about a mile, and then came another sudden stop--another fierce growl
from Mr. Egremont, another apparition of the servant at the window, saying, in his alert deferential
manner, 'Sir, the bridge have broke under a carriage in front.  Lady Delmar's, sir. The horse
is plunging terrible.'

The door was torn open, and all three, regardless of ball costumes, precipitated themselves out.

The moon was up, and they saw the Rectory carriage safe on the road before them, but on the
bridge beyond was a struggling mass, dimly illuminated by a single carriage lamp. Mr. Egremont
and the groom hurried forward where Mark and the Rectory coachman were already rendering what
help they could.  May standing at the horses' heads, and her mother trying to wrap everybody
up, since stay in their carriages they could not.  Transferring the horses to Nuttie, the two
sisters hurried on towards the scene of action, but Blanche's white satin boots did not carry
her far, and she turned on meeting her uncle.  He spoke with a briskness and alacrity that
made him like another man in this emergency, as he assured the anxious ladies that their friends
were safe, but that they could not be extricated till the carriage was lifted from the hole
into which it had sunk amid bricks, stones, and broken timbers.  He sent his own coachman to
assist, as being the stronger man, and, mounting the box, turned and drove off in quest of
further help, at a wayside cottage, or from the attendants on the engine, whose weight had
probably done the mischief, and prepared the trap for the next comer.

As May came near, her brother made her available by putting the lamp into her hand, bidding
her hold it so as to light those who were endeavouring to release the horse, which had cleared
the portion of the bridge before the break-down under the brougham, and now lay on the road,
its struggles quelled by a servant at its head.  Nearly the whole of the hind wheels and most
of the door had disappeared on one side, and, though more was visible on the other, it was
impossible to open the door, as a mass of rubbish lay on it.  Annaple was on this side, and
her voice was heard calling to May in fits of the laughter which is perhaps near akin to screams--

         '"London bridge is broken down,
           Dance o'er my lady Lee!"

Janet will go in for second-sight ever after.  Yes, she's all right, except a scratch from
the glass, and that I'm sitting on her more or less.  How are they getting on?'  'The horse
is all but out.  Not hurt, they think.  Here's another man come to help--a gentleman--my dear,
it is your partner, Nuttie's umbrella man.'  'Oh, making it complete--hopes, Janet--I'm sorry,
but I can't help squashing you! I can't help subsiding on you!  What is it now?' as the lamp-light
vanished.

'They are looking for something to make levers of,' returned May; 'these wooden rails are too
rotten.'

'Can't they get us through the window?' sighed a muffled voice.

'Not unless we could be elongated, like the Hope of the Katzekopfs.'

'We shall manage now,' cried Mark; 'we have found some iron bars to the hatch down there. 
But you must prepare for a shock or two before you can be set free.'

The two gentlemen and three servants strove and struggled, hoisted and pushed, to the tune
of suppressed sounds, half of sobs, half of laughter, till at last the carriage was heaved
up sufficiently to be dragged backwards beyond the hole; but even then it would not stand,
for the wheels on the undermost side were crushed, neither could either door be readily opened,
one being smashed in, and the other jammed fast.  Annaple, however, still tried to keep up
her own spirits and her sister's, observing that she now knew how to sympathise with Johnnie's
tin soldiers in their box turned upside down.

Two sturdy labourers here made their appearance, having been roused in the cottage and brought
back by Mr. Egremont, and at last one door was forced open by main force, and the ladies emerged,
Annaple, helping her sister, beginning some droll thanks, but pausing as she perceived that
Lady Delmar's dress was covered with blood.

'My dear Janet.  This is worse than I guessed.  Why did you not speak?'

'It is not much,' said the poor lady, rather faintly.  'My neck--'

The elder ladies came about her, and seated her on cushions, where, by the light of May's lamp,
Alice, who had been to an ambulance class at Micklethwayte, detected the extent of the cut,
extracted a fragment of glass, and staunched the bleeding with handkerchiefs and strips of
the girls' tulle skirts, but she advised her patient to be driven at once to a surgeon to secure
that no morsel of glass remained.  Mr. Egremont, gratified to see his wife come to the front,
undertook to drive her back to Redcastle.  Indeed, they must return thither to cross by the
higher bridge.  'You will go with me,' entreated Lady Delmar, holding Alice's hand; and the
one hastily consigning Nuttie to her aunt's care, the other giving injunctions not to alarm
her mother to Annaple, who had declared her intention of walking home, the two ladies went
off under Mr. Egremont's escort.

Just then it was discovered that the Delmar coachman, Robinson, had all this time been lying
insensible, not dead, for he moaned, but apparently with a broken leg, if nothing worse.  Indeed,
the men had known it all along, but, until the ladies had been rescued, nothing had been possible
but to put his cushion under his head and his rug over him.  The ladies were much shocked,
and Mrs. William Egremont decided that he must be laid at the bottom of the waggonette, and
that she would take him straight to the hospital.

They were only a mile and a half from Lescombe, and it was pronounced safe to cross on foot
by the remains of the bridge, so that Annaple, who had a pair of fur boots, had already decided
on going home on foot. The other girls wanted to accompany her, and, as May and Nuttie both
had overshoes, they were permitted to do so, and desired to go to bed, and wait to be picked
up by the waggonette, which must return to Bridgefield by the Lescombe road.  Blanche, having
a delicate throat, was sentenced to go with her stepmother.  Mark undertook to ride the horse
through the river, and escort the three girls, and Gerard Godfrey also joined them.  The place
where he was staying lay a couple of miles beyond Lescombe, and when Mrs. Elmore's fly had
been met and turned back by Mr. Egremont, he had jumped off to render assistance, and had done
so effectively enough to win Mark's gratitude.

It was by this time about half-past five, as was ascertained by the light of the waning moon,
the carriage-lamp having burnt out.  It was a fine frosty morning, and the moon was still powerful
enough to reveal the droll figures of the girls.  May had a fur cloak, with the hood tied over
her head by Mrs. Egremont's lace shawl; Nuttie had a huge white cloud over her head, and a
light blue opera cloak; Annaple had 'rowed herself in a plaidie' like the Scotch girl she was,
and her eyes flashed out merrily from its dark folds.  They all disdained the gentlemen's self-denying
offers of their ulsters, and only Nuttie consented to have the carriage-rug added to her trappings,
and ingeniously tied on cloak-fashion with her sash by Gerard.  He and Mark piloted the three
ladies over the narrow border of the hole, which looked a very black open gulf.  Annaple had
thanked the men, and bidden them come to Lescombe the next day to be paid for their assistance.
Then they all stood to watch Mark ride through the river, at the shallowest place, indicated
both by her and the labourers.  It was perfectly fordable, so Annaple's were mock heroics when
she quoted--

         'Never heavier man and horse
          Stemmed a midnight torrent's force.'

And Nuttie responded in a few seconds--

         'Yet through good heart and our Ladye's grace
          Full soon he gained the landing place.'

They were both in high spirits, admiring each other's droll appearance, and speculating on
the ghosts they might appear to any one who chanced to look out of window.  Annaple walked
at the horse's head, calling him poor old Robin Hood, and caressing him, while Gerard and Nuttie
kept together.

May began to repent of her determination to walk; Lescombe seemed very far off, and she had
an instinct that she was an awkward fifth wheel. Either because Robin Hood walked too fast
for her weary limbs, or because she felt it a greater duty to chaperon Nuttie than Annaple,
she fell back on the couple in the rear, and was rather surprised at the tenor of their conversation.

This 'umbrella man' was telling of his vicar's delight in the beautiful chalice veil that had
been sent by Mrs. Egremont, and Nuttie was communicating, as a secret she ought not to tell,
that mother was working a set of stoles, and hoped to have the white ones ready by the dedication
anniversary; also that there was a box being filled for the St. Ambrose Christmas tree.  They
were trying to get something nice for each of the choir boys and of the old women; and therewith,
to May's surprise, this youth, whom she regarded as a sort of shopman, fell into full narration
of all the events of a highly-worked parish,--all about the choral festival, and the guilds,
and the choir, and the temperance work.  A great deal of it was a strange language to May,
but she half-disapproved of it, as entirely unlike the 'soberness' of Bridgefield ways, and
like the Redcastle vicar, whom her father commonly called 'that madman.'  Still, she had a
practical soul for parish work, and could appreciate the earnestness that manifested itself,
and the exertions made for people of the classes whom she had always supposed too bad or else
too well off to come under clerical supervision.  And her aunt and cousin and this young man
all evidently had their hearts in it!  For Nuttie--though her new world had put the old one
apparently aside--had plunged into all the old interests, and asked questions eagerly, and
listened to their answers, as if Micklethwayte news was water to the thirsty. The two were
too happy to meet, and, it must be confessed, had not quite manners enough, to feel it needful
to include in their conversation the weary figure that plodded along at a little distance from
them, hardly attending to the details of their chatter, yet deriving new notions from it of
the former life of Ursula and her mother, matters which she had hitherto thought beneath her
attention, except so far as to be thankful that they had emerged from it so presentable.  That
it was a more actively religious, and perhaps a more intellectual one than her own, she had
thought impossible, where everything must be second-rate.  And yet, when her attention had
wandered from an account of Mr. Dutton's dealings with a refractory choir boy bent on going
to the races, she found a discussion going on about some past lectures upon astronomy, and
Nuttie vehemently regretting the not attending two courses promised for the coming winter upon
electricity and on Italian art, and mournfully observing, 'We never go to anything sensible here.'

May at first thought, 'Impertinent little thing,' and felt affronted, but then owned to herself
that it was all too true.  Otherwise there was hardly anything said about the contrast with
Nuttie's present life; Gerard knew already that the church atmosphere was very different, and
with the rector's daughter within earshot, he could not utter his commiseration, nor Nuttie
her regrets.

Once there was a general start, and the whole five came together at the sight of a spectrally
black apparition, with a huge tufted head on high, bearing down over a low hedge upon them.
Nobody screamed except Nuttie, but everybody started, though the next moment it was plain that
they were only chimney-sweepers on their way.

'Retribution for our desire to act ghosts!' said Annaple, when the sable forms had been warned
of the broken bridge.  'Poor May, you are awfully tired!  Shouldn't you like a lift in their cart?'

'Or I could put you up on Robin Hood,' said Mark.

'Thank you, I don't think I could stick on.  Is it much farther?'

'Only up the hill and across the park,' said Annaple, still cheerily.

'Take my arm, old woman,' said Mark, and then there was a pause, before Annaple said in an
odd voice, 'You may tell her, Mark.'

'Oh, Annaple!  Mark! is it so?' cried May joyously, but under her breath; and with a glance
to see how near the other couple were.

'Yes,' said Annaple between crying and laughing.  'Poor Janet, she'll think we have taken a
frightfully mean advantage of her, but I am sure I never dreamt of such a thing; and the queer
thing is, that Mark says she put it into his head!'

'No, no,' said Mark; 'you know better than that--'

'Why, you told me you only found it out when she began to trample on the fallen--'

'I told you I had only understood my own heart.'

'And I said very much the same--she made me so angry you see.'

'I can't but admire your motives!' said May, exceedingly rejoiced all the time, and ready to
have embraced them both, if it had not been for the spectators behind.  'In fact, it was opposition
you both wanted.  I wonder how long you would have gone on not finding it out, if all had been
smooth?'

'The worst of it is,' said Annaple, 'that I'm afraid it is a very bad thing for Mark.'

'Not a bit of it,' retorted he.  'It is the only thing that could have put life into my work,
or made me care to find any!  And find it I will now!  Must we let the whole world in to know
before I have found it, Annaple?'

'I could not but tell my mother,' said Annaple.  'It would come out in spite of me, even if
I wished to keep it back.'

'Oh yes!  Lady Ronnisglen is a different thing,' said Mark.  'Just as May here is--'

'And she will say nothing, I know, till we are ready--my dear old minnie,' said Annaple.  'Only,
Mark, do pray have something definite to hinder Janet with if there are any symptoms of hawking
her commodity about.'

'I will,' said Mark.  'If we could only emigrate!'

'Ah, if we could!' said Annaple.  'Ronald is doing so well in New Zealand, but I don't think
my mother could spare me.  She could not come out, and she must be with me, wherever I am.
You know--don't you--that I am seven years younger than Alick.  I was a regular surprise, and
the old nurse at Ronnisglen said 'Depend upon it, my Leddy, she is given to be the comfort
of your old age.'  And I have always made up my mind never to leave her.  I don't think she
would get on with Janet or any of them without me, so you'll have to take her too, Mark.'

'With all my heart,' he answered.  'And, indeed, I have promised my father not to emigrate.
I must, and will, find work at hand, and wake a home for you both!'

'But you will tell papa at once?' said May.  'It will hurt him if you do not.'

'You are right, May; I knew it when Annaple spoke of her mother, but there is no need that
it should go further.'

The intelligence had lightened the way a good deal, and they were at the lodge gates by this
time.  Gerard began rather ruefully to take leave; but Annaple, in large-hearted happiness
and gratitude, begged him to come and rest at the house, and wait for daylight, and this he
was only too glad to do, especially as May's secession had made the conversation a little more
personal.

Nuttie was in a certain way realising for the first time what her mother's loyalty had checked
her in expressing, even if the tumult of novelties had given her full time to dwell on it.

'Everybody outside is kind,' she said to Gerard; 'they are nice in a way, and good, but oh!
they are centuries behind in church matters and feeling, just like the old rector.'

'I gathered that; I am very sorry for you.  Is there no one fit to be a guide?'

'I don't know,' said Nuttie.  'I didn't think--I must, somehow, before Lent.'

'There is Advent close at hand,' he said gravely.  'If you could only be at our mission services,
we hope to get Father Smith!'

'Oh, if only I could!  But mother never likes to talk about those kind of things.  She says
our duty is to my father.'

'Not the foremost.'

'No, she would not say that.  But oh, Gerard! if he should be making her worldly!'

'It must be your work to hinder it,' he said, looking at her affectionately.

'Oh, Gerard! but I'm afraid I'm getting so myself.  I have thought a great deal about lawn-tennis,
and dress, and this ball,' said Nuttie. 'Somehow it has never quite felt real, but as if I
were out on a visit.'

'You are in it, but not of it,' said Gerard admiringly.

'No, I'm not so good as that!  I like it all--almost all.  I thought I liked it better till
you came and brought a real true breath of Micklethwayte.  Oh! if I could only see Monsieur's
dear curly head and bright eyes!'

This had been the tenor of the talk, and these were the actual last words before the whole
five--just in the first streaks of dawn--coalesced before the front door, to be admitted by
a sleepy servant; Mark tied up the horse for a moment, while Annaple sent the man to waken
Sir John Delmar, and say there had been a slight accident, but no one was much hurt; and, as
they all entered the warm, dimly-lighted hall, they were keenly sensible that they had been
dancing or walking all night.

Rest in the chairs which stood round the big hearth and smouldering wood-fire was so extremely
comfortable, as they all dropped down, that nobody moved or spoke, or knew how long it was
before there was a voice on the stairs--'Eh? what's this, Annaple?  An accident? Where's Janet?'
and a tall burly figure, candle in hand, in a dressing-gown and slippers, was added to the group.

'Janet will be at home presently, I hope,' said Annaple, 'but she got a cut with some broken
glass, and we sent her round by Dr. Raymond's to get it set to rights.  Oh, John! we came to
grief on Bluepost Bridge after all, and I'm afraid Robinson has got his leg broken!'

Sir John was a good-natured heavy man, whose clever wife thought for him in all that did not
regard horses, dogs, and game.  He looked perfectly astounded, and required to have all told
him over again before he could fully take it in.  Then he uttered a suppressed malediction
on engines, insisted that all his impromptu guests should immediately eat, drink, and sleep,
and declared his intention of going off at once to Redcastle to see about his wife.

The two gentlemen were committed to the charge of the butler, and Annaple took Nuttie and May
to her sister's dressing-room, where she knew she should find fire and tea, and though they
protested that it was not worth while, she made them undress and lie down in a room prepared
for them in the meantime.  It was a state chamber, with a big bed, far away from the entrance,
shuttered and curtained up, and with double doors, excluding all noise.  The two cousins lay
down, Nuttie dead asleep almost before her head touched the pillow, while May was aching all
over, declaring herself far too much tired and excited to sleep; and, besides that it was not
worth while, for she should be called for in a very short time.  And she remained conscious
of a great dread of being roused, so that when she heard her cousin moving about the room,
she insisted that they had scarcely lain down, whereupon Nuttie laughed, declared that she
had heard a great clock strike twelve before she moved, and showed daylight coming in through
the shutters.

'We can't lie here any longer, I suppose,' said May, sitting up wearily; 'and yet what can
we put on?  It makes one shiver to think of going down to luncheon in a ball dress!'

'Besides, mine is all torn to pieces to make bandages,' said Nuttie. 'I must put on the underskirt
and my cloak again.'

'Or Annaple might lend us something.  I must get out somehow to know how poor Lady Delmar is,
and what has become of everybody.  Ring, Ursula, please, and lie down till somebody comes.'

The bell was answered by a maid, who told them that my lady had been brought home by Mr. and
Mrs. Egremont about an hour after their arrival.  She was as well as could be expected, and
there was no cause for anxiety.  Mr. and Mrs. Egremont had then gone on to Bridgefield, leaving
word that Mrs. William Egremont and Miss Blanche were sleeping at Redcastle, having sent home
for their own dresses and the young ladies', and would call for the rest of their party on
the way. Indeed, a box for the Miss Egremonts had been deposited by the Canon from the pony-carriage
an hour ago, and was already in the dressing-room; but Miss Ruthven would not have them disturbed.
Miss Ruthven,--oh yes, she was up, she had not been in bed at all.

CHAPTER XV.

A CASTLE OF UMBRELLAS.

No, Annaple Ruthven could not have slept, even if she had had time. Her first care had been
to receive her sister, who had been met at the entrance of Redcastle by her husband.  There
had been profuse offers of hospitality to Mr. and Mrs. Egremont, the latter of whom looked
tired out, and offers of sending messengers to Bridgefield; but Mr. Egremont would not hear
of them, and every one suspected that he would not incur the chance of rising without Gregorio
and all his appliances.

By the time they were disposed of, and Lady Delmar safe in bed, it was time to repair to her
mother's room, so as to prevent her from being alarmed.  Lady Ronnisglen was English born.
She was not by any means the typical dowager.  Her invalid condition was chiefly owing to an
accident, which had rendered her almost incapable of walking, and she was also extremely susceptible
of cold, and therefore hardly ever went out; but there was so much youth and life about her
at sixty-three that she and Annaple often seemed like companion sisters, and her shrewd, keen,
managing eldest-born like their mother.

Annaple lay down beside her on her bed in the morning twilight, and gave her the history of
the accident in playful terms indeed. Annaple could never help that, but there was something
in her voice that made Lady Ronnisglen say, when satisfied about Janet's hurt, 'You've more
to say, Nannie dear.'

'Yes, minnie mine, I walked home with Mark Egremont.'

'And--?'

'Yes, minnie.  He is going to work and make a home--a real, true, homely home for you and me.'

'My child, my child, you have not hung the old woman about the poor boy's neck!'

'As if I would have had him if he did not love her, and make a mother of her!'

'But what is he going to do, Nan?  This is a very different thing from--'

'Very different from Janet's notions!' and they both laughed, the mother adding to the mirth
by saying--

'Poor Janet, congratulating herself that no harm had been done, and that you had never taken
to one another!'

'Did she really now?'

'Oh yes, only yesterday, and I bade her not crow too soon, for I thought I saw symptoms--'

'You dear darling minnie!  Think of that!  Before we either of us knew it, and when he is worth
ever so much than he was before!  Not but that I am enraged when people say he has acted nobly,
just as if there had been anything else for him to do!'

'I own that I am glad he has proved himself.  I was afraid he would be dragged in the way of
his uncle.  Don't be furious, Nannie.  Not at all into evil, but into loitering; and I should
like to know what are his prospects now.'

'Well, mother, I don't think he has any.  But he means to have.  And not a word is to be said
to anybody except you and his father and May till he has looked over the top of the wall, and
seen his way.  We need not bring Janet down on us till then.'

'I must see him, my dear.  Let me see him before he goes away.  He always has been a very dear
lad, a thoroughly excellent right-minded fellow.  Only I must know what he means to do, and
whether there is any reasonable chance of employment or fixed purpose.'

Lady Ronnisglen's maid here arrived with her matutinal cup of tea; and Annaple, beginning to
perceive that she was very stiff, went off in hopes that her morning toilette would deceive
her hardworked little frame into believing it had had a proper night's rest.

She was quite ready to appear at the breakfast table, though her eldest niece, a long-haired,
long-limbed girl, considerably the bigger of the two, was only too happy to preside over the
cups.  All the four young people were in the greatest state of excitement, welcoming, as the
heroes of the night, Mark and Mr. Godfrey, and clamouring to be allowed to walk down after
breakfast with their father and the gentlemen to see the scene of the catastrophe and the remains
of the carriage and the bridge.

Sir John made a courteous reference to the governess, but there was a general sense that the
cat was away, and presently there was a rush upstairs to prepare for the walk.  Annaple had
time in the course of all the bustle, while the colour came back to her cheeks for a moment,
to tell Mark that her mother had been all that was good, and wanted to see him.

He must manage to stay till after eleven o'clock; she could not be ready before.  Then he might
come to her sitting-room, which, as well as her bedroom, was on the ground floor.

Mark had to work off his anxiety by an inspection of the scene of the disaster and a circumstantial
explanation of the details to the young Delmars, who crowded round him and Mr. Godfrey, half
awed, half delighted, and indeed the youngest--a considerable tomboy--had nearly given the
latter the opportunity of becoming a double hero by tumbling through the broken rail, but he
caught her in time, and she only incurred from Sir John such a scolding as a great fright will
produce from the easiest of fathers.

Afterwards Mark put Gerard on the way to his brother-in-law's living, asking him on the road
so many questions about the umbrella business that the youth was not quite sure how to take
it, and doubted whether the young swell supposed that he could talk of nothing else; but his
petulance was mitigated when he was asked, 'Supposing a person wished to enter the business,
to whom should he apply?'

'Do you know any one who wishes for anything of the kind?' he asked. 'Are you making inquiries
for any one?' and on a hesitating affirmation, 'Because I know there is an opening for a man
with capital just at present.  Dutton won't advertise--'tis so risky; and he wants some knowledge
of a person's antecedents, and whether he is likely to go into it in a liberal, gentlemanly
spirit, with good principles, you see, such as would not upset all we are doing for the hands.'

'What amount of capital do you mean?'

'Oh, from five hundred to a thousand!  Or more would not come amiss. If I only had it!  What
it would be to conduct an affair like that on true principles!  But luck is against me every way.'

Mark was at the sitting-room door as the four quarters began to strike in preparation for eleven,
but Lady Ronnisglen had been in her chair for nearly half-an-hour, having been rapid and nervous
enough to hurry even the imperturbable maid, whom Annaple thought incapable of being hastened.
She was a little slight woman, with delicate features and pale complexion, such as time deals
with gently, and her once yellow hair now softened with silver was turned back in bands beneath
the simple net cap that suited her so well.  There was a soft yet sparkling look about her
as she held out her hands and exclaimed, 'Ah, Master Mark, what mischief have you been doing?'

Mark came and knelt on one knee beside her and said: 'Will you let me work for you both, Lady
Ronnisglen?  I will do my best to find some.'

'Ah! that is the point, my dear boy.  I should have asked and wished for definite work, if
you had come to me before that discovery of yours; and now it is a mere matter of necessity.'

'Yes,' said Mark; then, with some hesitation, he added: 'Lady Ronnisglen, do you care whether
I take to what people call a gentleman's profession?  I could, of course, go on till I am called
to the bar, and then wait for something to turn up; but that would be waiting indeed!  Then
in other directions I've taken things easy, you see, till I'm too old for examinations.  I
failed in the only one that was still open to me.  Lord Kirkaldy tried me for foreign office
work, and was appalled at my blunders.  I'm not fit for a parson.'

'I should have thought you were.'

'Not I,' said Mark.  'I'm not up to the mark there.  I couldn't say honestly that I was called
to it.  I wish I could, for it would be the easiest way out of it; but I looked at the service,
and I can't. There--that's a nice confession to come to you with!  I can't think how I can
have been so impudent.'

'Mark, you are a dear good lad.  I respect and honour you ever so much more than before all
this showed what stuff was in you!  But the question is, What's to be done?  My child is verily
the "penniless lass with a high pedigree," for she has not a poor thousand to call her own.'

'And I have no right to anything in my father's lifetime, though I have no doubt he would give
me up my share of my mother's portion--about £3000.  Now this is what has occurred to me: In
the place where I found my uncle's wife--Micklethwayte, close to Monks Horton--there's a great
umbrella factory, with agencies everywhere.  There are superior people belonging to it.  I've
seen some of them, and I've been talking to the young fellow who helped us last night, who
is in the office.  I find that to go into the thing with such capital as I might hope for,
would bring in a much larger and speedier return than I could hope for any other way, if only
my belongings would set aside their feelings.  And you see there are the Kirkaldys close by
to secure her good society.'

Lady Ronnisglen put out her transparent-looking, black-mittened hand, and gave a little dainty
pat to his arm.  'I like to see a man in earnest,' said she.  Her little Skye terrier was seized
with jealousy at her gesture, and came nuzzling in between with his black nose. 'Mull objects!'
she said, smiling; but then, with a graver look, 'And so will your father.'

'At first,' said Mark; 'but I think he will give way when he has had time to look at the matter,
and sees how good you are.  That will make all the difference.'

So Annaple, who had been banished for a little while, was allowed to return, and mother, daughter,
and lover built themselves a little castle of umbrellas, and bestowed a little arch commiseration
on poor Lady Delmar; who, it was agreed, need know nothing until something definite was arranged,
since Annaple was clearly accountable to no one except her mother.  She would certainly think
the latter part of her dream only too well realised, and consider that an unfair advantage
had been taken of her seclusion in her own room.  In spite of all loyal efforts to the contrary,
Mark, if he had been in a frame of mind to draw conclusions, would have perceived that the
prospect of escaping from the beneficent rule of Lescombe was by no means unpleasant to Lady
Ronnisglen.  The books that lay within her reach would hardly have found a welcome anywhere
else in the house.  Sir John was not brilliant, and his wife had turned her native wits to
the practical rather than the intellectual line, and had quite enough to think of in keeping
up the dignities of Lescombe with a large family amid agricultural difficulties.

Annaple remembered at last that she ought to go and look after her guests, assisted therein
by the pleasure of giving May a hearty kiss and light squeeze, with a murmur that 'all was right.'

She brought them downstairs just as the gong was sounding, and the rush of girls descending
from the schoolroom, and Lady Ronnisglen being wheeled across the hall in her chair.  Nuttie,
who had expected to see a gray, passive, silent old lady like Mrs. Nugent, was quite amazed
at the bright, lively face and voice that greeted the son-in-law and grandchildren, May and
herself, congratulating these two on having been so well employed all the morning, and observing
that she was afraid her Nannie could not give so good an account of herself.

'Well,' said Sir John, 'I am sure she looks as if she found plodding along the lanes as wholesome
as sleeping in her bed!  Nan Apple-cheeks, eh?'

Whereupon Annaple's cheeks glowed all the more into resemblance of the baby-name which she
had long ceased to deserve; but May could see the darkness under her eyes, betraying that it
was only excitement that drove away fatigue.

Sir John had not gone far in his circumstantial description of the injuries to his unfortunate
carriage when the Canon arrived, with his wife and Blanche.  Mark would have given worlds in
his impatience to have matters settled between the two parents then and there; but Lady Ronnisglen
had already warned him that this would not be possible, and assured him that it would be much
wiser to prepare his father beforehand.

Then he fixed his hopes on a solitary drive with his father back in the pony carriage, but
he found himself told off to take that home, and had to content himself with May as a companion.
Nor was his sister's mode of receiving the umbrella plan reassuring.  She had smiled too often
with her stepmother over Nuttie's having been brought up among umbrellas to be ready to accept
the same lot for her brother and her friend, and she was quite sure that her father would never
consent. 'An Egremont an umbrella-maker! how horrible!  Just fancy seeing Dutton, Egremont
and Co. on the handle of one's umbrella!'

'Well, you need not patronise us,' said Mark.

'But is it possible that Lady Ronnisglen did not object?' said May.

'She seemed to think it preferable to driving pigs in the Texas, like her son Malcolm.'

'Yes, but then that was the Texas.'

'Oh May, May, I did not think you were such a goose!'

'I should have thought the folly was in not being patient.  Stick to your profession, and something
must come in time.'

'Ay, and how many men do you think are sticking to it in that hope? No, May, 'tis not real
patience to wear out the best years of my life and hers in idleness, waiting for something
not beneath an Egremont to do!'

'But is there nothing to do better than that?'

'Find it for me, May.'

CHAPTER XVI.

INFRA DIG.

  'Till every penny which she told,
  Creative Fancy turned to gold.'--B. LLOYD.

The Blueposts Bridge had produced a good deal of effect.  Ursula Egremont in special seemed
to herself to have been awakened from a strange dream, and to have resumed her real nature
and affections. She felt as if she would give all her partners at the ball for one shake of
Monsieur's fringed paws; her heart yearned after Aunt Ursel and Miss Mary; she longed after
the chants of the choir; and when she thought of the effort poor Gerard Godfrey had made to
see her, she felt him a hero, and herself a recreant heroine, who had well-nigh been betrayed
into frivolity and desertion of him, and she registered secret resolutions of constancy.

She burned to pour out to her mother all the Micklethwayte tidings, and all her longings to
be there; but when the Rectory party set her down at the door, the footman, with a look of
grave importance, announced that Mr. Egremont was very unwell.  'Mr. Gregory thinks he has
taken a chill from the effect of exposure, sir, and Dr. Hamilton has been sent for.'

The Canon and his wife both got out on this intelligence, and Mrs. Egremont was summoned to
see them.  She came, looking more frightened than they thought the occasion demanded, for she
was appalled by the severe pain in the head and eyes; but they comforted her by assuring her
that her husband had suffered in the same manner in the spring, and she saw how well he had
recovered; and then telling Nuttie to bring word what the doctor's report was, and then spend
the evening at the Rectory, they departed, while poor Nuttie only had one kiss, one inquiry
whether she were rested, before her mother fled back to the patient.

Nor did she see her again till after the doctor's visit, and then it was only to desire her
to tell her uncle that the attack was pronounced to be a return of the illness of last spring,
and that it would be expedient to go abroad for the winter.

Go abroad!  It had always been a vision of delight to Nuttie, and she could not be greatly
concerned at the occasion of it; but she did not find the Rectory in a condition to converse
and sympathise.  Blanche was lying down with a bad headache.  The Edwardses and a whole party
of semi-genteel parish visitors had come in to inquire about the accident, and had to be entertained
with afternoon tea; and May, though helping her stepmother to do her devoir towards them, seemed
more preoccupied than ever.

As indeed she was, for she knew that Mark was putting his fate to the touch with his father
in the study.

The Canon heard the proposal with utter consternation and dismay at the perverseness of the
two young people, who might have been engaged any time these two years with the full approbation
of their families, and now chose the very moment when every one was rejoicing at their freedom.

'When a young man has got into a pickle,' he said, 'the first thing is to want to be married!'

'Exactly so, sir, to give him a motive for getting out of the pickle.'

'Umbrellas!  I should like to hear what your grandfather would have said!'

'These are not my grandfather's days, sir.'

'No indeed!  There was nothing to do but to give a hint to old Lord de Lyonnais, and he could
get you put into any berth you chose. Interest was interest in those days!  I don't see why
Kirkaldy can't do the same.'

'Not unless I had foreign languages at my tongue's end.'

Whereat the Canon groaned, and Mark had to work again through all the difficulties in the way
of the more liberal professions; and the upshot was that his father agreed to drive over to
Lescombe the next day and see Lady Ronnisglen.  He certainly had always implicitly trusted
his son's veracity, but he evidently thought that there must have been much warping of the
imagination to make the young man believe the old Scottish peeress to have consented to her
daughter's marrying into an umbrella factory.

Nuttie was surprised and gratified that both Mark and May put her through an examination on
the habits of Micklethwayte and the position of Mr. Godfrey, which she thought was entirely
due to the favourable impression Gerard had produced, and she felt proportionably proud of
him when Mark pronounced him a very nice gentlemanly young fellow.  She could not think why
her uncle, with more testiness than she had ever seen in that good-natured dignitary, ordered
May not to stand chattering there, but to give them some music.

The Canon drove to Lescombe the next day under pretext of inquiring after Lady Delmar, and
then almost forgot to do so, after he had ascertained that she was a prisoner to her dressing-room,
and that Sir John was out shooting.  The result of his interview filled him with astonishment.
Lady Ronnisglen having had a large proportion of sons to put out in life on very small means
had learnt not to be fastidious, and held that the gentleman might ennoble the vocation instead
of the vocation debasing the gentleman.  Moreover, in her secret soul she felt that her daughter
Janet's manoeuvres were far more truly degrading than any form of honest labour; and it was
very sore to her to have no power of preventing them, ridicule, protest, or discouragement
being all alike treated as the dear mother's old-world unpractical romance.  It galled her
likewise that she could perceive the determination that Annaple Ruthven should be disposed
of before Muriel Delmar came on the scene; and the retiring to ever so small a home of their
own had been discussed between mother and daughter, and only put aside because of the pain
it would give their honest-hearted host and their hostess, who really loved them.

Thus she did her best to persuade her old friend that there were few openings for a man of
his son's age, and that if the Micklethwayte business were all that Mark imagined, it was not
beneath the attention even of a well-born gentleman in these modern days, and would involve
less delay than any other plan, except emigration, which was equally dreaded by each parent.
Delay there must be, not only in order to ascertain the facts respecting the firm, but to prove
whether Mark had any aptitude for the business before involving any capital in it. However,
every other alternative would involve much longer and more doubtful waiting.  And altogether
the Canon felt that if a person of Lady Ronnisglen's rank did not object, he had scarcely a
right to do so.  However, both alike reserved consent until full inquiry should have been made.

The Canon wrote to Lord Kirkaldy, and in the meantime wanted to gather what information he
could from his sister-in-law; but he found her absolutely engrossed as her husband's nurse,
and scarcely permitted to snatch a meal outside the darkened room.  He groaned and grumbled
at his brother's selfishness, and declared that her health would be damaged, while his shrewder
lady declared that nothing would be so good for her as to let Alwyn find her indispensable
to his comfort, even beyond Gregorio.

This absorption of her mother fell hard on Ursula, especially when the first two days' alarm
was over, and her mother was still kept an entire prisoner, as companion rather than nurse.
As before, the rheumatic attack fastened upon the head and eyes, causing lengthened suffering,
and teaching Mr. Egremont that he had never had so gentle, so skilful, so loving, or altogether
so pleasant a slave as his wife, the only person except Gregorio whom, in his irritable state,
he would tolerate about him.

His brother could not be entirely kept out, but was never made welcome, more especially when
he took upon himself to remonstrate on Alice's being deprived of air, exercise, and rest. 
He got no thanks; Mr. Egremont snarled, and Alice protested that she was never tired, and needed
nothing.  The Rectory party were, excepting the schoolroom girls, engaged to make visits from
home before going into residence at Redcastle, and were to begin with Monks Horton.  They offered
to escort Ursula to see her great aunt at Micklethwayte--Oh joy of joys!--but when the Canon
made the proposition in his brother's room, Mr. Egremont cut it short with 'I'm not going to
have her running after those umbrella-mongers.'

The Canon's heart sank within him at the tone, and he was really very sorry for his niece,
who was likely to have a fortnight or three weeks of comparative solitude before her father
was ready to set out on the journey.

'Can't she help you, in reading to her father--or anything?' he asked Alice, who had come out
with him into the anteroom to express her warm thanks for the kind proposal.

She shook her head.  'He would not like it, nor I, for her.'

'I should think not!' exclaimed the Canon, as his eye fell on the title of a yellow French
book on the table.  'I have heard of this! Does he make you read such as this to him, Alice?'

'Nothing else seems to amuse him,' she said.  'Do you, think I ought not?  I don't understand
much of that kind of modern French, but Nuttie knows it better.'

'Not that kind, I hope,' said the Canon hastily.  No, no, my dear,' as he saw her colour mantling,
'small blame to you.  You have only to do the best you can with him, poor fellow!  Then we'll
take anything for you.  We've said nothing to Nuttie, Jane said I had better ask you first.'

'Oh, that was kind!  I am glad she is spared the disappointment.'

Not that she was.  For when she learnt her cousins' destination, she entreated to go with them,
and had to be told that the proposal had been made and refused.

There is no denying that she behaved very ill.  It was the first real sharp collision of wills.
She had differed from, and disapproved of, her father all along, but what had been required
of her had generally been pleasant to one side at least of her nature; but here she was condemned
to the dulness of the lonely outsider to a sick room, when her whole soul was leaping back
to the delights of her dear old home at Micklethwayte.

She made her mother's brief meal with her such a misery of protests and insistences on pleadings
with her father that poor Alice was fain to rejoice when the servants' presence silenced her,
and fairly fled from her when the last dish was carried out.

When they met again Nuttie demanded, 'Have you spoken to my father?'

'I told you, my dear, it would be of no use?'

'You promised.'

'No, Nuttie, I did not.'

'I'm sure I understood you to say you would if you could.'

'It was your hopes, my dear child.  He is quite determined.'

'And you leave him so.  Mother, I can't understand your submitting to show such cruel ingratitude!'

Nuttie was very angry, though she was shocked at the burning colour and hot tears that she
beheld as, half choked, her mother said: 'Oh, my dear, my dear, do not speak so!  You know--you
know it is not in my heart, but my first duty, and yours too, is to your father.'

'Whatever he tells us?' demanded Nuttie, still hot and angry.

'I did not say that,' returned her mother gently, 'but you know, Nuttie, Aunt Ursel herself
would say that it is our duty to abide by his decision here.'

'But you could speak to him,' still argued Nuttie, 'what's the use of his being so fond of
you if he won't do anything you want?'

'Hush! hush, Nuttie! you know that is not a right way of speaking.  I cannot worry him now
he is ill.  You don't know what that dreadful pain is!'

Happily Nuttie did refrain from saying, 'No doubt it makes him very cross;' but she muttered,
'And so we are to be cut off for ever from Aunt Ursel, and Miss Mary, and--and--every thing
good--and nice--and catholic?'

'I hope not, indeed, I hope not.  Only he wants us to get the good society manners and tone--like
your cousins, you know.  You are young enough for it, and a real Egremont, you know Nuttie,
and when you have learnt it, he will trust you there,' said the mother, making a very mild
version of his speech about the umbrella-mongers.

'Yes, he wants to make me worldly, so that I should not care, but that he never shall do, whatever
you may let him do to you.'

His bell rang sharply, and away hurried Alice, leaving her daughter with a miserably sore and
impatient heart, and the consciousness of having harshly wounded the mother whom she had meant
to protect.  And there was no hugging and kissing to make up for it possible.  They would not
meet till dinner-time, and Nuttie's mood of stormy repentance had cooled before that time into
longing to be more tender than usual towards her mother, but how was that possible during the
awful household ceremony of many courses, with three solemn men-servants ministering to them?

And poor Alice jumped up at the end, and ran away as if afraid of fresh objurgations, so that
all Nuttie could do was to rush headlong after her, catch her on the landing, kiss her face
all over, and exclaim, 'Oh, mother, mother, I was dreadfully cross!'

'There, there!  I knew you would be sorry, dear, dear child, I know it is very hard, but let
me go.  He wants me!'

And a very forlorn and deplorable person was left behind, feeling as if her father, after carrying
her away from everything else that she loved, had ended by robbing her of her mother.

She stood on the handsome staircase, and contrasted it with the little cosy entrance at her
aunt's.  She felt how she hated all these fine surroundings, and how very good and unworldly
she was for so doing. Only, was it good to have been so violent towards her mother?

The Rectory folks were dining out, so she could only have recourse to Mudie's box to try to
drive dull care away.

A few days more and they were gone.  Though Mr. Egremont was gradually mending, he still required
his wife to be in constant attendance.  In point of fact Alice could not, and in her loyalty
would not, tell her dignified brother-in-law, far less her daughter, of the hint that the doctor
had given her, namely, that her husband was lapsing into the constant use of opiates, founded
at first on the needs of his malady, but growing into a perilous habit, which accounted for
his shutting himself up all the forenoon.

While under medical treatment it was possible to allowance him, and keep him under orders,
but Dr. Hamilton warned her not to allow the quantity to be exceeded or the drugs to be resorted
to after his recovery, speaking seriously of the consequences of indulgence.  He spoke as a
duty, but as he looked at the gentle, timid woman, he saw little hope of her doing any good!

Poor Alice was appalled.  All she could do was to betake herself to 'the little weapon called
All-Prayer,' and therewith to use all vigilance and all her arts of coaxing and cheering away
weariness and languor, beguiling sleeplessness, soothing pain by any other means. She had just
enough success to prevent her from utterly despairing, and to keep her always on the strain,
and at her own cost, for Mr. Egremont was far more irritable when he was without the narcotic,
and the serenity it produced was an absolute relief.  She soon found too that Gregorio was
a contrary power.  Once, when he had suggested the dose, and she had replied by citing the
physician's commands, Mr. Egremont had muttered an imprecation on doctors, and she had caught
a horrible grin of hatred on the man's face, which seemed to her almost diabolical.  She had
prevailed then, but the next time her absence was at all prolonged, she found that the opiate
had been taken, and her dread of quitting her post increased, though she did not by any means
always succeed.  Sometimes she was good-humouredly set aside, sometimes roughly told to mind
her own business; but she could not relinquish the struggle, and whenever she did succeed in
preventing the indulgence she felt a hopefulness that--in spite of himself and Gregorio, she
might yet save him.

Another hint she had from both the Canon and his wife.  When they asked what place was chosen,
Mr. Egremont said he had made Alice write to inquire of the houses to be had at various resorts--Mentone,
Nice, Cannes, and the like.  She was struck by the ardour with which they both began to praise
Nice, Genoa, Sorrento, any place in preference to Mentone, which her husband seemed to know
and like the best.

And when she went downstairs with them the Canon held her hand a moment, and said, 'Anywhere
but Mentone, my dear.'

She looked bewildered for a moment, and the Canoness added, 'Look in the guide-books.'

Then she remembered Monte Carlo, and for a moment it was to her as shocking a warning as if
she had been bidden to keep her husband out of the temptation of thieving.

She resolved, however, to do her best, feeling immediately that again it was a pull of her
influence against Gregorio's.  Fortune favoured her so far that the villa favoured by Mr. Egremont
was not to be had, only the side of the bay he disliked, and that a pleasant villa offered at Nice.

Should she close with it?  Well--was there great haste?  Gregorio knew a good many people at
Mentone, and could ascertain in his own way if they could get the right side of the bay by
going to the hotel and waiting.  Alice, however, pressed the matter--represented the danger
of falling between two stools, pleaded personal preference, and whereas Mr. Egremont was too
lazy for resistance to any persuasion, she obtained permission to engage the Nice villa.  The
next day Gregorio announced that he had heard that the proprietor of Villa Francaleone at Mentone
was giving up hopes of his usual tenants, and an offer might secure it.

'Villa Eugenie at Nice is taken,' said Alice, and she received one of those deadly black looks,
which were always like a stab.

Of all this Nuttie knew nothing.  She was a good deal thrown with the schoolroom party and
with the curate's wife for companionship.  Now Mrs. Edwards did not approve of even the canonical
Egremonts, having an ideal far beyond the ritual of Bridgefield; and she was delighted to find
how entirely Miss Egremont sympathised with her.

Nuttie described St. Ambrose's as a paradise of church observances and parish management, everything
becoming embellished and all shortcomings forgotten in the loving mists of distance.  The harmonium
was never out of tune; the choir-boys were only just naughty enough to show how wisely Mr.
Spyers dealt with them; the surplices, one would think, never needed washing; Mr. Dutton and
Gerard Godfrey were paragons of lay helpers, and district visitors never were troublesome.
Mrs. Edwards listened with open ears, and together they bewailed the impracticability of moving
the Canon to raising Bridgefield to anything approaching to such a standard; while Nuttie absolutely
cultivated her home sickness.

According to promise Blanche wrote to her from Monks Horton, and told her thus much--'We have
been all over your umbrella place.  It was very curious.  Then we called upon Miss Headworth,
who was quite well, and was pleased to hear of you.'

Blanche was famous for never putting into a letter what her correspondent wanted to hear, but
her stepmother wrote a much longer and more interesting letter to Mrs. Egremont.

'You will be glad to hear that we found your aunt quite well.  I suppose it is not in the nature
of things that you should not be missed; but I should think your place as well supplied as
could be hoped by that very handsome and superior Miss Nugent, with whom she lives.  I had
a good deal of conversation with both; for you will be surprised to hear that the Canon has
consented to Mark's making the experiment of working for a year in Greenleaf and Dutton's office,
with a view to entering the firm in future.  I was very anxious to understand from such true
ladies what the position would be socially. I longed to talk it over with you beforehand; but
Alwyn could never spare you, and it was not a subject to be broached without ample time for
discussion.  We felt that though the Kirkaldys could tell us much, it was only from the outside,
whereas Miss Headworth could speak from within.  The decision is of course a blow to his father,
and will be still more so to the De Lyonnais family, but they have never done anything to entitle
them to have a voice in the matter, and the Kirkaldys agree with us that, though not a path
of distinction, it is one of honourable prosperity; and with this, if Mark is content, we have
no right to object, since his mind is set on present happiness rather than ambition.'

It was a letter gratifying to Alice in its confidential tone, as well as in the evident approval
of those surroundings which she loved so well.  She read it to her husband, as she was desired
to give him a message that the Canon had not written out of consideration for his eyes.  He
laughed the laugh that always jarred on her.  'So Master Mark has got his nose to the grindstone,
has he?' was his first exclamation, and, after some cogitation, 'The fellow wants to be married,
depend on it!'

'Do you think so?' returned Alice wistfully.

'Think!  Why, you may see it in Jane's letter!  I wonder who it is! The little yellow Ruthven
girl, most likely!  The boy is fool enough for anything!  I thought he would have mended his
fortunes with Ursula, but he's too proud to stomach that, I suppose!'

'I did wish that!' said Alice.  'It would have set everything straight, and it would have been
so nice for her.'

'You should have cut out your daughter after your own pattern,' he answered; 'not let her be
such a raw insignificant little spitfire. 'Tis a pity.  I don't want the estate to go out of
the name, though I won't leave it to an interfering prig like Mark unless he chooses to take
my daughter with it!'

The latter part of this amiable speech was muttered and scarcely heard or attended to by Alice
in her struggle to conceal the grief she felt at the uncompromising opinion of her child. 
Nuttie might outgrow being raw, but there seemed less rather than more prospect of a better
understanding with her father.  About a week later Mark made his appearance, timing it happily
when his uncle was making his toilette, so that his aunt was taking a turn on the sunny terrace
with Nuttie when the young man came hurrying up the garden.

'Mark!  What?  Are you come home?'

'Not the others.  They are at Mr. Condamine's, I came last night--by way of Lescombe.  Edda,
dear, it is all right!  Oh, I forgot you did not know!  There was no seeing you before we went
away.  Ah! by the by, how is my uncle?'

'Much better, except that using his eyes brings on the pain.  'What is it, Mark?  Ah! I can
guess,' she said, aided no doubt by that conjecture of her husband's.

'Yes, yes, yes!' he answered, with a rapidity quite unlike himself. 'Why, Nuttie, how mystified
you look!'

'I'm sure I don't wonder at any one being glad to live at dear old Micklethwayte,' said Nuttie
slowly.  'But, somehow, I didn't think it of you, Mark.'

'My dear, that's not all!' said her mother.

'Oh!' cried Nuttie, with a prolonged intonation.  'Is it?--Oh, Mark! did you do it that night
when you led the horse home?'

'Even so, Nuttie!  And, Aunt Alice, Lady Ronnisglen is the best and bravest of old ladies,
and the wisest.  Nobody objects but Lady Delmar, and she declares she shall not consider it
an engagement till Ronnisglen has been written to in Nepaul, as if he had anything to do with
it; but that matters the less, since they all insist on our waiting till I've had a year's
trial at the office!  I suppose they could not be expected to do otherwise, but it is a pity,
for I'm afraid Lady Delmar will lead Annaple and her mother a life of it.'

'Dear Mark, I am delighted that it is all going so well.'

'I knew you would be!  I told them I must tell you, though it is not to go any farther.'

So that hope of Mark's restoration to the inheritance faded from Alice, and yet she could not
be concerned for him.  She had never seen him in such good spirits, for the sense of failure
and disappointment had always been upon him; and the definite prospect of occupation, gilded
by his hopes of Annaple, seemed to make a new man of him.

CHAPTER XVII.

AN OLD FRIEND.

  'My heart untravelled still returns to thee.'--GOLDSMITH.

To go abroad!  Such had been the fairy castle of Nuttie's life.  She had dreamed of Swiss mountains,
Italian pictures, Rheinland castles, a perpetual panorama of delight, and here she was in one
of the great hotels of Paris, as little likely to see the lions of that city as she had been
to see those of London.

The party were halting for two days there because the dentist, on whom Mr. Egremont's fine
show of teeth depended, practised there; but Nuttie spent great part of the day alone in the
sitting-room, and her hand-bag and her mother's, with all their books and little comforts,
had been lost in the agony of landing.  Her mother's attendance was required all the morning,
or what was worse, she expected that it would be, and though Nuttie's persistence dragged out
the staid, silent English maid, who had never been abroad before, to walk in the Tuilleries
gardens, which they could see from their windows, both felt half-scared the whole time.  Nuttie
was quite unused to finding her own way unprotected, and Martin was frightened, cross, and
miserable about the bags, which, she averred, had been left by Gregorio's fault.  She so hated
Gregorio that only a sort of adoration which she entertained for Mrs. Egremont  would have
induced her to come tete-a-tete with him, and perhaps he was visiting his disappointment about
Mentone on her.  In the afternoon nothing was achieved but a drive in the Bois de Boulogne,
when it was at once made evident that Mr. Egremont would tolerate no questions nor exclamations.

His mouth was in no condition for eating in public, and he therefore decreed that his wife
and daughter should dine at the table d'hote, while he was served alone by Gregorio.  This
was a great boon to Nuttie, and to her mother it recalled bridal days long past at Dieppe;
but what was their astonishment when on entering the room they beheld the familiar face of
Mr. Dutton!  It was possible for him to place himself between them, and there is no describing
the sense of rest and protection his presence imparted to them, more especially to Nuttie.

He had come over, as he did from time to time, on business connected with the materials he
used, and he was beguiled into telling them of his views of Mark, whom he had put in the way
of learning the preliminaries needful to an accountant.  He had a deep distrust of the business
capacities and perseverance of young gentlemen of family, especially with a countess-aunt in
the neighbourhood, and quoted Lord Eldon's saying that to make a good lawyer of one, it was
needful for him to have spent both his own and his wife's fortune to begin with, but he allowed
that young Mr. Egremont was a very favourable specimen, and was resolutely applying himself
to his work, and that he himself felt it due to him to give all the assistance possible.

Miss Headworth, he could not deny, had aged, but far less than Mrs. Nugent in the past year,
and it really was a great comfort to Miss Mary to have the old ladies together.  He told too
how the mission, now lately over, had stirred the Micklethwayte folk into strong excitement,
and how good works had been undertaken, evil habits renounced, reconciliations effected, religious
services frequented. Would it last? Nobody, he said, had taken it up so zealously as Gerard
Godfrey, who seemed as if he would fain throw everything up, and spend his whole life in some
direct service as a home missionary or something of the kind.  'He is a good fellow,' said
Mr. Dutton, 'and it is quite genuine, but I made him wait at least a year, that he may be sure
that this is not only a passing impulse.'

Nuttie thought that she knew what was the impulse that had actuated him, and felt a pleasant
elation and self-consciousness even while she repressed a sigh of pity for herself and for
him.  Altogether the dip into the Micklethwayte world was delightful, but when Mr. Dutton began
to ask Nuttie what she had seen, she burst out with, 'Nothing--nothing but just a walk and
a drive in the Bois de Boulogne;' and her mother explained that 'in Mr. Egremont's state of
health,' etc.

'I wonder,' asked Mr. Dutton, 'if I might be allowed--'

Nuttie's eyes sparkled with ecstasy.

It ended in her mother, who had been wondering how Mr. Egremont could be amused all the long
evening, arranging that Mr. Dutton should come in an hour's time to call on him, on the chance
of being admitted, and that then the offer might be made when she had prepared him for it,
advising Nuttie to wait in her own room.  She was beginning to learn how to steer between her
husband and her daughter, and she did not guess that her old friend was sacrificing one of
the best French plays for the chance.

It turned out well; Mr. Egremont was conscious of a want of variety. He demanded whether it
was the young fellow, and being satisfied on that part, observed in almost a good-humoured
tone, 'So, we are in for umbrellas, we may as well go in for the whole firm!' caused the lights
to be lowered under pretext of his eyes--to conceal the lack of teeth--did not absolutely refuse
to let Nuttie take advantage of the escort, and when Mr. Dutton did come to the anteroom of
the apartment, he was received with full courtesy, though Gregorio looked unutterable contempt.
Mr. Dutton was a man who could talk, and had seen a good deal of the world at different times.
Mr. Egremont could appreciate intelligent conversation, so that they got on wonderfully well
together, over subjects that would have been a mere weariness to Nuttie but for the exceeding
satisfaction of hearing a Micklethwayte voice. At last Mr. Dutton said something about offering
his escort to the ladies, or to Miss Egremont, who used, he said in a paternal way, to be a
little playfellow of his; Mr. Egremont really smiled, and said, 'Ay, ay, the child is young
enough to run after sights. Well, thank you, if you are so good as to take the trouble, they
will be very grateful to you, or if her mother cannot go with her, there's the maid.'

Nuttie thought she had never known him so amiable, and hardly durst believe her good fortune
would not turn the wheel before morning. And it so far did that her mother found, or thought
she found, that it would not do to be out of call, and sent the silent Martin in her stead.
But Mr. Dutton had set telegraphs to work and recovered the bags, which Gregorio had professed
to give up in despair.

A wonderful amount of lionising was contrived by Mr. Dutton, who had lived a few years at Paris
in early youth, and had made himself acquainted alike with what was most worth seeing, and
the best ways and means of seeing it, so that as little time as possible was wasted on the
unimportant.  It was one of the white days of Nuttie's life, wanting nothing but her mother's
participation in the sight of the St. Michael of the Louvre, of the Sainte Chapelle, of the
vistas in Notre Dame, and of poor Marie Antoinette's cell,--all that they had longed to see
together.

She had meant to tell Mr. Dutton that it was all her father's selfishness, but somehow she
could not say so, there was something about him that hindered all unbefitting outbreaks of
vexation.

And thus, when she mentioned her disappointment at not being allowed to go to Micklethwayte
with her uncle, he answered, 'You could not of course be spared with your father so unwell.'

'Oh, he never let me come near him!  I wasn't of the slightest use to him!'

'Mrs. Egremont would have missed you.'

'Really he never gave her time.  He perfectly devours her, body and soul.  Oh dear, no!  'Twas
for no good I was kept there, but just pride and ingratitude, though mother tried to call it
being afraid for my manners and my style.'

'In which, if you lapse into such talk, you fully justify the precaution.  I was just thinking
what a young lady you had grown into,' he answered in a tone of banter, under which, however,
she felt a rebuke; and while directing her attention to the Pantheon, he took care to get within
hearing again of Martin.

And in looking at these things, he carried her so far below the surface.  St. Michael was not
so much Raffaelle's triumph of art as the eternal victory over sin; the Sainte Chapelle, spite
of all its modern unsanctified gaudiness, was redolent of St. Louis; and the cell of the slaughtered
queen was as a martyr's shrine, trod with reverence.  There were associations with every turn,
and Nuttie might have spent years at Paris with another companion without imbibing so many
impressions as on this December day, when she came home so full of happy chatter that the guests
at the table d'hote glanced with amusement at the eager girl as much as with admiration at
the beautiful mother.  Mr. Dutton had been invited to come and take coffee and spend the evening
with them again, but Mr. Egremont's affairs with the dentist had been  completed, and he had
picked up, or, more strictly speaking, Gregorio had hunted up for him, a couple of French acquaintances,
who appeared before long and engrossed him entirely.

Mr. Dutton sat between the two ladies on a stiff dark-green sofa on the opposite side of the
room, and under cover of the eager, half-shrieking, gesticulating talk of the Frenchmen they
had a quiet low-toned conversation, like old times, Alice said.  'More than old times,' Nuttie
added, and perhaps the others both agreed with her.

When the two Englishwomen started at some of the loud French tones, almost imagining they were
full of rage and fury, their friend smiled and said that such had been his first notion on
coming abroad.

'You have been a great deal abroad?' Mrs. Egremont asked; 'you seem quite at home in Paris.'

'Oh, mamma, he showed me where the school was that he went to, and the house where he lived!
Up such an immense way!'

Mr. Dutton was drawn on to tell more of his former life than ever had been known to them. 
His father, a wine merchant, had died a bankrupt when he was ten years old, and a relation,
engaged in the same business at Paris, had offered to give him a few years of foreign schooling,
and then make him useful in the business.

His excellent mother had come with him, and they had lived together on very small means, high
up in a many-storied lodging-house, while he daily attended the Lycie.  His reminiscences were
very happy of those days of cheerful contrivance, of her eager desire to make the tiny appartement
a home to her boy, of their pleasant Sundays and holidays, and the life that in this manner
was peculiarly guarded by her influence, and the sense of being all she had upon earth.  He
had scarcely ever spoken of her before, and he dwelt on her now with a tenderness that showed
how she had been the guiding spirit of his life.

At fifteen he was taken into the office at Marseilles, and she went thither with him, but the
climate did not agree with her; she drooped, and, moreover, he discovered that the business
was not conducted in the honourable manner he had supposed.  After a few months of weighing
his obligations to his kinsman against these instincts, the question was solved by his cousin's
retiring.  He resolved to take his mother back to England at any loss, and falling in with
one of the partners of the umbrella firm in quest of French silk, he was engaged as foreign
correspondent, and brought his mother to Micklethwayte, but not in time to restore her health,
and he had been left alone in the world just as he came of age, when a small legacy came to
him from his cousin, too late for her to profit by it. It had been invested in the business,
and he had thus gradually risen to his present position.  Mrs. Egremont was amazed to hear
that his mother had only been dead so short a time before she had herself come to Micklethwayte;
and fairly apologised for the surprise she could not help betraying at finding how youthful
he had then been, and Nuttie exclaimed, in her original unguarded fashion:

'Why, Mr. Dutton, I always thought you were an old bachelor!'

'Nuttie, my dear!' said her mother in a note of warning, but Mr. Dutton laughed and said:

'Not so far wrong!  They tell me I never was a young man.'

'You had always to be everything to your mother,' said Mrs. Egremont softly.

'Yes,' he said, 'and a very blessed thing it was for me.'

'Ah! you don't regret now all that you must have always been giving up for her,' returned Alice.

'No, indeed.  Only that I did not give up more.'

'That is always the way.'

'It is indeed.  One little knows the whips that a little self-will prepares.'

Nuttie thought he said it for her admonition, and observed, 'But she was good,' only, however,
in a mumble, that the other two thought it inexpedient to notice, though it made both hearts
ache for her, even Alice's--with an additional pang of self-reproach that she herself was not
good enough to help her daughter better.

Neither of them guessed at the effect that a glimpse of the lovely young seeming widow had
had on the already grave self-restrained young man in the home lately made lonely, how she
had been his secret object for years, and how, when her history was revealed to him, he had
still hoped on for a certainty which had come at last as so fatal a shock and overthrow to
all his dreams.

A life of self-restraint and self-conquest had rendered it safe for him to thoroughly enjoy
the brief intercourse, which had come about by the accident of his having come to dine at the
Hotel de Louvre, to meet a friend who had failed him.

These were two completely happy hours to all the three, and when they said 'good-night' there
was a sense of soothing and invigoration on Alice's mind; and on Nuttie's that patience and
dutifulness were the best modes of doing justice to her Micklethwayte training, although he
had scarcely said a word of direct rebuke or counsel.

While Mr. Dutton sped home to tell Miss Headworth that Mrs. Egremont looked lovelier than ever,
and was--yes she was--more of an angel, that her husband had been very pleasant, much better
than he expected, and, indeed, might come to anything good under such influence; and as to
little Nuttie--she was developing fast, and had a brave constant heart, altogether at Micklethwayte.
But that servant who was acting as courier was an insolent scoundrel, who was evidently cheating
them to the last degree.

CHAPTER XVIII.

A FRIEND IN NEED.

  'True courage often is in frightened eyes.'--
                                 Thoughts and Verses.

All the preliminaries of the sojourn at Nice had been settled in correspondence, and the Egremont
family had nothing to do, after arriving at the station, but to drive up to Villa Eugenie,
whose flower-wreathed balconies were like a vision of beauty.  Servants had been hired through
agencies known to Mr. Egremont, and Gregorio looked very black at his mistress keeping the
reins in her hand, and tried to make her feel herself inefficient.

It was not an eventful or very interesting part of Ursula's life. She was almost wild with
the novelty and beauty of the South at first, but except for what she could thus see, there
was little variety.  The mould of the day was as much as possible after the Bridgefield fashion,
except that there were no cousins at the Rectory, no parish interests, very little society,
as far as the ladies were concerned.  Mr. Egremont had old acquaintance and associates with
whom he spent afternoons and evenings, after his own fashion, but they were not people to whom
he wished to introduce his wife and daughter.

And the superior English habitues of Nice, the families who formed the regular society, knew
Mr. Egremont's reputation sufficiently to feel by no means disposed to be cordial to the fair
wife and grown-up daughter whom he so unexpectedly produced on the scene.  It had been different
at home, where he had county standing, and the Canon and Canoness answered for the newcomers;
but here, where all sorts of strange people came to the surface, the respectable felt it needful
to be very cautious, and though of course one or two ladies had been asked to call through
the intervention of Lady Kirkaldy or of Mrs. William Egremont, and had been assured on their
authority that it was 'all right,' their attentions were clogged by doubt, and by reluctance
to involve their mankind in intimacy with the head of the family.  Thus very little of the
proverbial gaiety of Nice offered itself to Nuttie and her mother, and, except by a clerical
family who knew Mr. Spyers, they were kept at a distance, which Mr. Egremont perceived and
resented by permitting no advances.  The climate suited him so well that, to his wife's great
relief, he seemed to have dropped his inclination for sedatives; but his eyes would not bear
much, and she felt bound to be always on the alert, able to amuse him and hinder his feeling
it dull.  Gregorio highly disapproved of the house and servants, and was always giving hints
that Mentone would agree far better with his master; but every day that Mr. Egremont seemed
sufficiently amused at Nice was so much gain, and she had this in her favour, that he was always
indolent and hard to move. Moreover, between his master's levee and late dinner Gregorio was
hardly ever to be found.  No doubt he knew the way to Monte Carlo well enough, and perhaps
preferred that the family should be farther off, for he soon ceased to show himself discontented
with their present abode.  Once when his absence was inconvenient, Mr. Egremont abused him
roundly as a good-for-nothing gambler, but when Alice hoped that he might be called to a reckoning,
the wrath had subsided with the immediate vexation, and as usual she was told 'All those fellows
were alike.'

The foreign servants were not to be induced to give the early-rising ladies more than a roll
and cup of coffee, and Nuttie felt ravenous till she learned to lay in a stock of biscuits,
and, with Martin's connivance, made tea on her own account, and sustained her mother for the
morning's walk before the summons to Mr. Egremont.

He always wanted his wife much earlier in the day, during his hours of deshabille, and letting
her write his letters and read the papers to him.  She was pleased with this advance, but it
gave Nuttie a great deal more solitude, which was sometimes judiciously spent, but it was very
hard not to be desultory in spite of learning lessons in French, Italian, and drawing.

Later in the day came the drive or the visit to the public gardens when the band was playing,
but this became less frequent as Mr. Egremont observed the cold civility shown to his wife,
and as he likewise grew stronger and made more engagements of his own.  Then Nuttie had happy
afternoons of driving, donkey-riding, or walking with her mother, sketching, botanising, admiring,
and laying up stores for the long descriptive letters that delighted the party in St. Ambrose's
Road, drinking in all the charm of the scenery, and entering into it intelligently.  They spent
a good many evenings alone together likewise, and it could not but give Alice a pang to see
the gladness her daughter did not repress when this was the case, even though to herself it
meant relaxation of the perpetual vigilance she had to exert when the father and daughter were
together to avert collisions.  They were certainly not coming nearer to one another, though
Nuttie was behaving very well and submissively on the whole, and seldom showing symptoms of
rebellion.  This went on through the early part of their stay, but latterly there was a growing
sense upon the girl that she and her mother were avoided by some young ladies to whom they
had been introduced, and whom they saw regularly at the daily services at St. Michael's Church.
They were pleasant-looking girls, with whom Nuttie longed to fraternise, and she was mortified
at never being allowed to get beyond a few frigidly civil words in the street, more especially
when she came upon sketching parties and picnics in which she was never included.

It was all very well for her mother to answer her murmurs and wonderings with 'You know people
are very exclusive, my dear.' Nuttie began to guess that her father and her name were the real
reason, and her eyes were further opened later in the spring when Mr. Egremont, who had recovered
unusual health and vigour, took his ladies to Mentone to spend a day or two in the newer beauties
there. Alice had her misgivings, but the visit was avowedly to show the place to her, and she
could not reasonably object.  He was in unusual good humour, and even tolerated their ecstasies
at the scenery and the flowers, dined at the table d'hote and found acquaintance, enjoyed himself,
and in the forenoon, while Nuttie was out wondering and admiring, and going as far as she could
drag Martin, he expressed to his wife that she would be astonished at the gardens and the music
of Monte Carlo.

There, however, Alice made a stand.  'Thank you, it is very kind, but if you please, I should
not like to take Ursula to Monte Carlo, or to go there myself,' she said in an apologetic tone.

He laughed.  'What! you are afraid of making the little one a confirmed gambler?'

'You know I am not, but--'

'You think the little prig will be contaminated, eh?'

'Well, I think it will be happier for her if she never sees anything--of the kind.'

'You little foolish Edda, as if her eyes or ears need see anything but flowers and music and
good company.'

'I know that, but I had so much rather not.  It was a sweet face and caressing voice that implored,
and he still was good humoured.

'Well, well, I don't want to drag you, old lady, against your will, though I fancy you would
be rather surprised at the real aspect of the abode of iniquity your fancy depicts.'

'Oh, thank you, thank you so much!'

'What an absurd little woman it is!  I wonder if you would thank me as heartily supposing I
cleared a round thousand and gave you--say a diamond necklace?'

'I am sure I should not!'

'No, I don't believe you would.  That restless little conscience of yours would be up on end.
After all, I don't know that you are the worse for it, when it looks so prettily out of your
brown eyes.  I wonder what you expect to see?  The ruined gamester shooting himself on every
path, eh?'

'No, no; I don't suppose I should see anything horrid or even disagreeable.  I know it is all
very beautiful; but then every person who goes for the innocent pleasures' sake only helps
to keep up the whole thing--evil and all.'

'And what would the old women of all sorts here and at Nice do without such a choice temple
of scandal to whet their teeth upon? Well, I suppose you and your precious daughter can take
care of yourselves. There are the gardens, or you can tell Gregorio to order you a carriage.'

'Then you are going?'

'Yes, I promised Grafton.  Don't be afraid, Mistress Edda, I'm not going to stake Bridgefield
and reduce you to beggary.  I'm an old hand, and was a cool one in my worst days, and whatever
I get I'll hand over to appease you.'

That was all she could obtain, and she secretly hoped there would be no winnings to perplex
her.  Thankful that she had not made him angry by the resistance for which she had prepared
herself with secret prayer ever since the Mentone scheme had been proposed, she placed herself
at Nuttie's disposition for the rest of the day.

They had a charming donkey-ride, and, still unsatiated with beauty, Ursula made her mother
come out again to wonder at the trees in the public gardens.  Rather tired, they were sitting
on a shaded bench, when a voice close to them exclaimed, 'It is; yes, it must be; 'tis the
voice--yes, and the face prettier than ever.  Little Alice--ah! you don't know me.  Time has
been kinder to you than to me.'

'Oh!  I know you now!  I beg your pardon,' cried Alice, recognising in the thin nutcracker
parchment visage and shabbily-dressed figure the remnant of the brilliant aquiline countenance
and gay attire of eighteen years ago.  'Mrs. Houghton!  I am so glad to have met you, you were
so kind to me.  And here she is.'

'What! is this the child?  Bless me, what a proof how time goes! Young lady, you'll excuse
my not knowing you.  You were a very inconvenient personage not quite born when I last met
your mother. What a likeness! I could have known her for Alwyn Egremont's daughter anywhere!'

'Yes, they all say she is a thorough Egremont.'

'Then it is all right.  I saw Alwyn Egremont, Esquire, and family among the arrivals at Nice,
but I hardly durst expect that it was you.  It seemed too good to be true, though I took care
the knot should be tied faster than my gentleman suspected.'

'Oh, please!' cried Alice deprecatingly, at first not apprehending the force of the words,
having never known the gulf from which Mrs. Houghton had saved her, and that lady, seeing that
the girl was listening with all her ears, thought of little pitchers and restrained her reminiscences,
asking with real warm interest, 'And how was it? How did you meet him again?'

'He came and found me out,' said Alice, with satisfaction in her voice.

'Indeed!  Not at Dieppe; for he was en garcon when I nearly came across him ten years ago at
Florence.'

'Oh no!  He inquired at Dieppe, but they had lost the address my aunt left.'

'Indeed!  I should not have thought it of old Madame Leroux, she seemed so thoroughly interested
in la pauvre petite.  What did you do?  Your aunt wrote to me when your troubles were safely
over, and she thought him lost in the poor Ninon, that she meant to settle in a place with
an awfully long Yorkshire name.'

'Micklethwayte; yes, we lived there, and got on very well.  We had boarders, and I had some
dear little pupils; but last year Mark Egremont--you remember dear little Mark--was in the
neighbourhood, and hearing my name, he told his uncle, who had been seeking us ever since.
And he came, Mr. Egremont, and took us home, and oh, the family have been so kind!'

'What?  The parson, and that awful old she-lion of a grandmother, whose very name scared you
out of your wits?'

'She is dead, and so is dear good Lady Adelaide.  Canon Egremont is kindness itself.  It was
all the old lady's doing, and he knew nothing about it.  He was gone to Madeira with Lady Adelaide
and got none of our letters, and he never knew that his brother was married to me.'

'Trust Alwyn for that,' Mrs. Houghton muttered.  'Well, all's well that ends well, and I hope
he feels due gratitude to me for doing him a good turn against his will.  I tried to get at
him at Florence to find out what he had done with you, but unluckily I was ill, and had to
send through poor Houghton, and he mismanaged it of course, though I actually wrote down that
barbarous address, Mickle something, on a card.  I believe he only got as far as the man instead
of the master.'

'Ah!  I wanted to ask for Captain Houghton,' said Alice, glad to lead the conversation away
from revelations of which she had an instinctive dread.

'Gone, my dear! two years ago.  Poor fellow! it was low fever, but quite as much want of luck,
I shall always believe,' she said.

'Oh, I am sorry!  He was so kind to me!' said Alice, squeezing her hand, and looking up with
sweet tender commiseration.

'There, there, don't, you pretty creature!' said Mrs. Houghton, putting her hand across her
eyes.  'I declare, you've almost made me cry--which I've not done--well, hardly, since I parted
with you at Dieppe, thinking you a sweet little flower plucked and thrown away to die, though
I had done my best to bind it to him.  What care I took not to let Houghton disabuse him about
Jersey marriages!'

There is a difference between hearing and hearkening, and Alice Egremont's loving and unsuspecting
heart was so entirely closed against evil thoughts of her husband, and so fully occupied with
her old friend's condition, that she never took in the signification of all this, while Nuttie,
being essentially of a far more shrewd and less confiding nature, and already imbued with extreme
distrust of her father, was taking in all these revelations with an open-eyed, silent horror
of conviction that her old impressions of the likeness to Marmion or Theseus had been perfectly
correct.  It was all under her hat, however, and the elder ladies never thought of her, Alice
bringing back the conversation to Mrs. Houghton herself.  'Oh, my dear, I drag on as I can.
I've got a fragment of our old income, and when that's run too low, I go up to Monte Carlo--I
always had the lucky hand, you know, and 'tis only restitution after all!  I'm sick of it all
though, and sometimes think I'll take my good sister Anne's offers and go home.'

'Oh do, do!' cried Alice.

'But,' went on the poor woman, 'humble pie goes against me, and think what an amount would
be before me--heigh ho!--after nearly five-and-twenty years; yes, five-and-twenty years it
is--since Houghton, poor fellow, told me I was too bright and winsome for a little country
lawyer's house in a poky street.  What would they think of me now?' and she laughed with a
sound that was painful to hear. 'Well, Sycorax had done one good deed, and when I look at you,
queening it there, I feel that so have I.'

'You were very good to me, I know; but oh, if you would go home to your sister!'

'My dear, you little know what you ask!  Anne!  Why, she is the prime district lady, or whatever
you call it, of Dockforth.  Think what it would be to her to have this battered old vaurien
thrown on her hands, to be the stock subject for all the righteous tongues. Besides,' as she
coughed, 'the English climate would make an end of me outright.  I'm in a bad way enough here,
where I can sit among the lemon trees half the days in the winter, but the English fireside
in a stuffy parlour--' and she shuddered.

That shiver reminded all that it was getting late, too late for Mrs. Houghton to be out of
doors, and near the time when Mr. Egremont was to meet his ladies at the hotel.  Alice begged
for Mrs. Houghton's address, and it was given with a short ironical laugh at her promise to
call again if possible.  'Ay, if possible,' the poor woman repeated. 'I understand!  No, no,'
as Alice was about to kiss her. 'I won't have it done.'

'There's no one in sight.'

'As if that made a difference!  Alice, child, you are as innocent as the little dove that flew
aboard the Ninon.  How have you done it? Get along with you!  No kisses to such as me!  I don't
know whether it breaks my heart, or binds it up to look at the face of you. Anyway, I can't
bear it.'

She hurried away, and made some steps from them.  A terrible paroxysm of coughing came on,
and Mrs. Egremont hurried towards her, but she waved back all help, shook her head, and insisted
on going home. Alice kept her in sight, till she dived into a small side street.

'Mother,' said Nuttie.  Then there was a pause.  'Mother, did you know all this?'

'Don't talk of it, Nuttie.  It is not a thing to be talked about to any one or by any one.
I wish you had not been there.'

'But, mother, this once!  Did you know?'

'I knew that I knew not what I did when I went on board that yacht, but that God's kind providence
was over me in a way that I little deserved. That is all I care to know, and, Ursula, I will
have not another word about it.  No, I will not hear it.'

'I was only going to ask whether you would tell my father.'

'Certainly; but not before you.'

The tone of decision was unwonted, and Nuttie knew she must abide by it, but the last shreds
of filial respect towards Mr. Egremont were torn away by what Mrs. Houghton had implied, and
the girl dashed up and down her bedroom muttering to herself, 'Oh, why have I such a father?
And she, she will not see it, she is wilfully blind!  Why not break with him and go home to
dear Aunt Ursel and Gerard and Mr. Dutton at once, instead of this horrid, horrid grandeur?
Oh, if I could fling all these fine things in his face, and have done with him for ever. Some
day I will, when I am of age, and Gerard has won his way.'

Meantime Alice, in some trepidation, but with resolution at the bottom, had told her husband
of the meeting with Mrs. Houghton, of her widowhood, sickness, and poverty.

He did not like the intelligence of their meeting, and hoped no one had seen it; then, when
reassured on this score, he hummed a little and exclaimed, 'Poor old Flossy Houghton!  I don't
wonder!  They went the pace!  Well, what do you want?  Twenty pounds for her!  Why, 'twill
all be at Monte Carlo in three days' time.'

'It is very good of you, but I want more than that.  She is so ill and wretched, you know.'

'I can't have you visiting her, if that's what you mean.  Why, after all the pains I've been
at to get you on your proper level at home, here's my Lady Louisa and all her crew, in their
confounded insolence, fighting shy of you, and you can't give them a better colour for it than
by running after a woman like that--divorced to begin with, and known at every gambling table
in Europe.'

'I know that, Alwyn, dear Alwyn' (it was very seldom that she called him so, and she put her
clasped hands on his shoulder); 'but I am sure she is dying, and she was so good to me, I can't
bear doing nothing for her.'

'Well, there's twenty--fifty, if you like.'

'Thank you, thank you, but you know I never meant to visit her--like--like society; only to
go sometimes privately and--'

'And how about your daughter?'

'I would not take her on any account.  What I want to do is this. Mrs. Houghton spoke of her
sister, a kind good woman in England, who would take her home, and love her, if only she could
bring herself to go. Now, I think I could persuade her to write, or let me write to the sister--and
if only the two were together again!  It is very dreadful to think of her dying alone, in the
way she is going on!'

'What, little saint, you want to try your hand on her?  I should say she was too tough an old
sinner for you.'

'Oh, Alwyn! her heart was very near, though she tried to keep it back. I do not want to--to
do what you mean--only to get her to let her sister come.  I'm sure that would do the rest.'

'If any sister does more than you, you little witch,' he said.

Alice pressed him no more then, but a day or two later, when she knew he had an engagement,
she arranged to dispose of Nuttie with the clergyman's wife, and then begged permission to
go by train to Mentone, and come back in the evening.  He did not like it--no more did she--for
she was perfectly unaccustomed to travelling alone, but there was a deep sense of sacred duty
upon her, only strengthened by her unwillingness to realise how much she owed to Mrs. Houghton.

She telegraphed that she was coming, and found her friend more touched than she chose to allow
at the fact of her visit, declaring that she must have wonderful power over Alwyn Egremont,
if she knew how to use it; indeed, the whole tone was of what Alice felt flattery, intended
to turn away anything more serious.  Poor woman, she was as careful of doing no injury to her
young friend's reputation as Mr. Egremont could have desired.  Alice had come resolved that
she should have one good meal, but she would not hear of eating anywhere in public where either
could be recognised, and the food was brought to a private room in the hotel.  To her lodgings
she still would not take Alice, nor would she give her sister's address.  Except for a genuine
shower of tears when Alice insisted on kissing her there seemed no ground gained.

But Alice went again on her husband's next visit to Mentone.  He was, to a certain degree,
interested in her endeavours, and really wished the poor woman to be under the charge of her
relations, instead of dying a miserable lonely death among strangers.

This time Alice had to seek her friend in the dreary quatrieme of the tall house with the dirty
stone stairs. It was a doleful empty room, where, with a mannish-looking dressing-gown and
a torn lace scarf tied hood-fashion over her scanty hair, Mrs. Houghton sat over a pan of charcoal
oppressive to Alice's English lungs.

'Come again!' she cried.  'Well, I really shall begin to think that angels and ministers of
grace exist off the stage!  You pretty thing! Let me look at you.  Where did you get that delicious
little bonnet?'

'Why, it is perfectly plain!'

'So it is!  'Tis only the face that is in it.  Now if some folks put this on--sister Anne,
for example, what dowdies they would be.  Poor old Anne, you must know she had a turn for finery,
only she never knew how to gratify it.  To see the contortions of her crinolines was the delight
of all the grammar school.  It was a regular comedy for them to see her get into our pew edgeways,
and once unconsciously she carried off a gentleman's hat on her train.'

So she went on talking, coughing at intervals, and generally using a half-mocking tone, as
if defying the tenderness that awoke in spite of her, but always of her original home, and
especially of her sister. Alice ventured to ask whether they often heard from one another.

'Good soul, she always writes at Christmas and on my birthday.  I know as well as possible
that I shall find a letter poste restante wherever she heard of me last, and that she hasn't
done--I'm ashamed to say for how long--really, I think not since I let her know that I couldn't
stand Ivy Lodge, Dockforth, at any price, when she wrote to Monaco on seeing poor Houghton's
death in the paper.'

There was a good deal of rambling talk of this kind, to which Alice listened tenderly and compassionately,
making no attempt at persuasion, only doing what was possible for the poor lady's comfort.
She had procured on her way some fruit and jelly, and some good English tea, at which Mrs.
Houghton laughed, saying, 'Time was, I called it cat-lap! Somehow it will seem the elixir of
life now, redolent, even milkless, of the days when we were young.'

Then she revealed something of her long, suffering, almost ghastly nights, and Alice gently
told how her old friend, Mrs. Nugent, suffered from sleeplessness, and kept a store of soothing
psalms and hymns in her memory.  There was a little laugh.  'That's for you good folk.  I haven't
such a thing about me!  Come, Par exemple!' and Alice repeated the first thing she could remember,
the verse beginning 'God, who madest earth and heaven.'

'That's one of your charms, is it?  Well, it would not be too much for me if my poor old memory
would hold it.  Say it again.'

Alice generally had about her a tiny prayer-book with 'Hymns, Ancient and Modern,' attached.
It had been a gift from Mary Nugent, and she was fond of it, but the opportunity was not to
be lost, and she took it out, saying she would bring a larger one and reclaim it.  And, as
she was finally taking leave, she said with a throbbing heart, 'Do you know that you have betrayed
your sister's address?  I shall write to her now.'

'If you do--!' cried Mrs. Houghton, in a tone like threatening deprecation, but with a little
of her strange banter in it besides. Alice's mind had been made up to do the thing, and she
had not felt it honest not to give due warning of her intentions.  Even now she was not certain
of the lady's surname, but she trusted to her husband's knowledge of Mrs. Houghton's previous
history; and not in vain.  Mr. Egremont amused himself with a little ridicule at his wife's
quixotry, and demanded whether Flossy Houghton was a promising convert; but confessed himself
very glad that the poor thing should be off their hands, declaring that it was quite time her
own people looked after her, and happily he recollected her maiden name.  So the letter was
written, after numerous attempts at expressing it suitably, explaining Mrs. Houghton's illness
and the yearnings she was too proud and ashamed to express to her sister, and was answered
at once by a few short words of earnest gratitude, and an assurance that Miss Reade was preparing
to start at once.  Could Mrs. Egremont meet her and prepare her sister?

To Alice's disappointment this could not be.  Mr. Egremont had invited some friends to the
villa, and would not spare her.  She could only send a note, assuring Miss Reade that she believed
that preparation would do more harm than good, and she waited and watched anxiously.  A card
came by the post in Mrs. Houghton's scrawled writing.  'Naughty little wretch!' was all it
said, but thence she gathered hope.

The spring was advancing, and Mr. Egremont was in haste to be gone, but Alice obtained one
more run to Mentone, and once more climbed up the dark and dirty stairs to the room, where
the well-known voice answered her tap, 'Come in!  Ah, there she is, the wicked little angel!'

A substantial little roly-poly business-like little woman hurried forward with tearful eyes
and outstretched hands.  'Oh, Mrs. Egremont! can I ever thank you enough?'

'You can't, Anne, so don't try.  It will be a relief to all parties,' interposed Mrs. Houghton.
'Sentiment is not permitted here.'

Nevertheless she hugged Alice almost convulsively.  She was sitting in a comfortable arm-chair,
one about which Mrs. Egremont knew something, and the whole aspect of the room had changed
indescribably for the better, as much indeed as Mrs. Houghton's own personal array, which had
no longer the desolate neglected look of old.

A little stool was close to her chair, as if the two sisters could not bear to be far apart,
and the look of love and content in their eyes as they turned to one another was perfect joy
to Alice.  She had no longer any doubt that Anne Reade, who had found the wanderer yet a great
way off, would yet bring her back to the home, spiritually if not outwardly.

Mrs. Houghton spoke, of better rooms when the winter visitors had fled, Anne spoke of her being
able to return to Dockforth.  Whether that would ever be seemed entirely doubtful to Alice's
eyes, especially as the patient's inclination was evidently otherwise. There was nothing to
be done but to leave the sisters together, obtaining Miss Reade's ready promise to write, and
putting into her hands a sum of money which could be sincerely called 'only a debt of gratitude
from my husband and me,' and which would smooth the way either to remaining or returning to
England.

Nor was there any return.  Ere many weeks had passed Mrs. Egremont heard from Miss Reade how
a fresh cold had made it impossible to move, and summer heat had brought on low fever, which
had destroyed the feeble strength, but not till 'childhood's star' had again arisen, and a
deeply and truly repentant woman had passed away, saved, as it seemed, through that one effort
on behalf of the young girl whose innocence she had protected.

CHAPTER XIX.

THE VORTEX.

  'With one black shadow at her feet.'--TENNYSON.

The rebuffs that society had bestowed on his wife and daughter at Nice had rendered Mr. Egremont
the more determined on producing them in London and establishing their position.  He secured
a furnished house in Westburnia before leaving Nice, and, travelling leisurely home without
visiting Bridgefield, he took possession the second week in May.

There had not been much correspondence with the Rectory, and on the first forenoon, as Mrs.
Egremont and Nuttie were trying to enliven the drawing-room with the flowers sent up to meet
them, they were surprised by the entrance of Blanche, full of kisses and welcomes.

'Oh! didn't you know?  I'm with the Kirkaldys just round the corner. Aunt Margaret has undertaken
to do the part of a noble aunt by me.'

'Then you are here for the season?  And May?'

'May wouldn't come, except just for a week to see the pictures, and lay in a stock of talk.
She's grown more parochial than ever, and we believe it is all Hugh Condamine.  Oh! I forgot
you were gone before we came home last autumn.  He is mamma's nephew, you know, and was ordained
last year to the curacy of the next parish to his father's place.  If the Edwardses only would
take themselves off, we would have him at home, and then we should have flowers on the altar,
and all sorts of jolly things.  Papa would stand ever so much more from him than from the old
Edwardses.'

'But is he engaged to May, then?'

'Well, no, not exactly.  I believe he does not think it right till he has done preparing for
priest's orders.  He's ever so strict, you know, and he hasn't got much either; but he means
it.  Lucy, his sister, you know, told me all about it, and that altogether the elders had settled
it was better for both that he should attend to his preparation, and May should not bind herself,
though they really understand one another, and so she won't come to London.'

'Oh, that's very good of her!' cried Nuttie; 'but why won't they let them settle their minds
and be engaged?'

'People are always tiresome,' said Blanche; 'and I do believe the living is at the bottom of
it, at least Lucy thought so.  I mean everybody wants to wait--all the old ones, I mean--not
Hugh or May, of course--to know whether Mark will stick to the umbrellas, or turn back and
be a clergyman, because, then, of course, he would have the living; and if he doesn't, they
want to be certain whether Uncle Alwyn, or you, Nuttie, would promise it to Hugh if he married
May!'

'Me!' exclaimed Nuttie.

'My dear, I don't like to hear you talk of such things,' said Mrs. Egremont gently.

'Oh yes, I know--it's all very dreadful.  I was only telling you what is in the old people's
heads, and what would settle it, and make it all right with them.'

'And how is Mark?  Is Miss Ruthven in London?' asked Mrs. Egremont, glad to turn away the conversation
from the contingencies of which Blanche spoke with the hardness of youth, as yet not realising
sorrow.

'I daresay you know nearly as much of Mark as we do, now the Kirkaldys are up here.  All his
letters go to Lescombe.  Oh no, Annaple is not in London.  The Delmars can't afford it, you
know, though I believe my lady would have made a stretch if Annaple hadn't been bespoke--but
now she reserves herself for Muriel.'

Alice looked with some discomfort at the soft fair-haired creature who was uttering all this
worldly jargon in a tone that would have been flippant if it had not been so childish.  She
asked if Lord. Ronnisglen had written.

'Oh yes, long ago.  Lady Delmar had tried to make him nasty about it, but he wouldn't be, so
that's all right; and Mark seems to get on very well, though it must be horridly dull for him
now the Kirkaldys are away, and he can't spend all his Sundays at Monks Horton.'

'He will get more into the spirit of the place,' said Nuttie, whereat Blanche shrugged her
shoulders a little, and exclaimed:

'You've got out of it at any rate, Nuttie!'

'I hope not!'

'Well, then, the look of it!  I never saw any one so improved!  Isn't she, Aunt Alice?  She's
grown, I declare!  Yes'--measuring herself against her cousin--'I was a leetle bit taller when
you came, and now you've got above me! and what a duck of a way of doing your hair! You must
show me!  I must tell May there's no fear of your being taken for one another now; Aunt Margaret
will be quite surprised.'

It was true that Ursula had developed a good deal during the last year, and, under the experienced
hands of Martin, had lost her schoolgirl air, and turned into a young lady capable of becoming
the Paris outfit which her father had enjoined.  Without positive beauty, she was a pleasing,
intelligent, animated girl, with the reputation of being an heiress, with a romance in the
background, and there was nothing to prevent her from being a success.  The family connections,
with Lady Kirkaldy to set the example, had determined on giving full support to Mrs. Egremont,
and, as of course every one liked to look at so lovely a face, the way of both was smoothed
in a manner that delighted her husband when they encountered any of those who had looked coldly
on her at Nice.

He would have had her presented, but her own reluctance and the united counsels of Lady Kirkaldy
and the Canoness prevailed on him to drop the idea; and then there was a fight with Ursula,
who declared that she would not go to court if her mother did not; but she was overruled at
last by that mother's tears at her defiance; and let herself be presented, together with Blanche,
by Lady Kirkaldy.

To Ursula it was altogether a strange time, full of the same kind of reckless swing and sense
of intoxication that had possessed her at Bridgefield.  Not that there was an excessive amount
of actual gaiety. Hot rooms and late hours were soon found not to agree with Mrs. Egremont.
She looked faded and languid after evening parties; and, as her husband really cared more to
have her ready to wait upon him and amuse him than for anything else, he did not insist on
her going out more than might be needful to establish her position, or when it suited him to
show her off.  The other purposes were quite as well served by letting Ursula go out with Lady
Kirkaldy, who was warmly interested in mother and daughter, glad of a companion for Blanche,
and still more glad of a companion for herself.  For she was not slow to discover that exhibitions,
which were merely fashionable gapeseed to her niece, were to Nuttie real delights, viewed intelligently,
and eliciting comments and questions that Lady Kirkaldy and even her husband enjoyed in their
fresh interest, but which were unendurable weariness to Blanche, unless she had some one to
chatter with.  Lectures and lessons, which the aunt hoped to render palatable by their being
shared by the two cousins, only served to show the difference between a trained and eager,
and an untrained and idle, nature.  With the foreign society to be met at Lord Kirkaldy's,
Blanche was less at a loss than her brother, and could get on by the help of nods and becks
and wreathed smiles; but Nuttie, fresh from her winter abroad, could really talk, and was often
in request as a useful person to help in entertaining.  She thus saw some of the choicest society
in London, and, in addition, had as much of the youthful gaiety as Lady Kirkaldy thought wholesome
for the two girls. Also there were those ecclesiastical delights and privileges which had been
heard of at Micklethwayte, and were within reach, greatly enjoyed by Mrs. Egremont whenever
she could share them, though her daughter chafed at her treating all except the chief service
on Sunday as more indulgence than duty.

Nuttie was strong, with that spring of energy which unbroken health and a quiet life lays up,
and, in her own phrase, she went in for everything, from early services to late balls, thinking
all right because it was seldom that her day did not begin with matins or Celebration, and
because she was not taken to more than two balls a week, and conversed at times with superior
people, or looked at those with world-famed names.  Possibly the whirl was greater than if
it had been mere gaiety, for then the brain would not have participated in it. Church functions,
with the scurry to go at all, or to obtain a seat, fine music, grand sermons, religious meetings,
entertainments for the poor, lectures, lessons, exhibitions, rides, drives, kettle-drums, garden-parties,
concerts, theatres, operas, balls, chattering, laughing, discussing, reading up current subjects,
enjoying attention, excitement as to what should be done and how,--one thing drove out another
in perpetual succession, and the one thing she never did or could do was to sit still and think!
Rest was simply dreamless sleep, generally under the spell of a strong will to wake at the
appointed hour for church.  The short intervals of being alone with her mother were spent in
pouring out histories of her doings, which were received with a sympathy that doubled their
pleasure, excepting when Nuttie thought proper to grumble and scold at her mother's not coming
to some Church festival at an hour when she thought Mr. Egremont might want her.

Of him Nuttie saw very little.  He did not want her, and cared little what she did, as long
as she was under the wing of Lady Kirkaldy, whose patronage was a triumphant refutation of
all doubts.  He went his own way, and had his own club, his own associates, and, with his wife
always at his beck and call, troubled himself very little about anything else.

Alice spent a good deal of time alone, chiefly in waiting his pleasure; but she had her own
quiet occupations, her books, her needlework, her housekeeping, and letter-writing, and was
peacefully happy as long as she did not displease Nuttie.  There were no collisions between
father and daughter, and the household arrangements satisfied that fastidious taste.  She was
proud of Ursula's successes, but very thankful not to be dragged out to share them, though
she was much less shy, and more able on occasion to take her place.

One pain she had.  Good old Mrs. Nugent was rapidly decaying, and she shared with all her loving
heart in the grief this was to Mary and to Miss Headworth, and longed to help them in their
nursing.  She would not grieve Nuttie by dwelling constantly on the bad accounts, and the girl
hardly attended to them in the tumult of occupations; and so at last, when the final tidings
came in the second week in July, they were an absolute shock to Nuttie, and affected her as
the first grief sometimes does.  Mrs. Nugent was really the first person of her own intimate
knowledge who had died, and in the excited state in which she was, the idea of the contrast
between her own occupations and Mary's was so dreadful to her that she wept most bitterly,
with the sobs of childhood, such as she really did not know how to restrain.

It was an unfortunate day, for it was one of the few on which Mr. Egremont wanted to take out
his ladies.  There was to be a great garden-party at Richmond, given by one of his former set,
who had lately whitewashed himself by marrying a very fast and fashionable lady.  Nuttie had
heard strong opinions on the subject at Lord Kirkaldy's; but her father was quite elated at
being in a position to countenance his old friends.  Alice, in the midst of her sorrow, recollected
this with consternation.

'My dear, my dear, hush!  You must stop yourself!  Remember we have to go out.'

'Go--out,' cried Nuttie, her sobs arrested by very horror.  'You wouldn't go--!'

'I am afraid your father would be very much vexed--'

'Let him!  It is a horrid wicked place to go to at all; and now--when dear, dear old Mrs. Nugent
is lying there--and--'

The crying grew violent again, and in the midst in walked Mr. Egremont with an astonished 'What
is all this?'

'We have lost one of our dear kind old friends at Micklethwayte,' said Alice, going towards
him; 'dear old Mrs. Nugent,' and she lifted up her tear-stained face, which he caressed a little
and said, 'Poor old body;' but then, at a sob, 'Can't you stop Ursula from making such a row
and disfiguring herself?  You must pick up your looks, Edda, for I mean you to make a sensation
at Jerningham's.'

'Oh, Alwyn, if you could let us stay at home!  Mrs. Nugent was so good to us, and it does seem
unkind--' The tears were in her eyes again.

'Nonsense!' he said impatiently.  'I promised Jerningham, and it is absurd to have you shutting
yourself up for every old woman at Micklethwayte.'

Thereupon Ursula wiped away her tears, and stood up wrathful before him.  'I am not going,'
she said.

'Oh, indeed!' he returned in a tone that made her still more angry. 'Hein'! a French ejaculation
which he had the habit of uttering in a most exasperating manner.

'No,' she said.  'It is scarcely a place to which we even ought to be asked to go, and certainly
not when--'

'Do you hear that, Mrs. Egremont?' he asked.

'Oh, Nuttie, Nuttie, dear!' she implored; 'don't.'

'No, mother,' said Nuttie, with flashing eyes; 'if you care so little for your best friends
as to let yourself be dragged out among all sorts of gay, wicked people when your dear friend
is lying dead, I'm sure I shan't go with you.'

Her father laughed a little.  'A pretty figure you are, to make a favour of accompanying us!'

'Oh, go away, go away, Nuttie,' entreated her mother.  'You don't know what you are saying.'

'I do know,' said Nuttie, exasperated perhaps by the contrast in the mirror opposite between
her own swelled, disfigured face, and the soft tender one of her mother with the liquid eyes.
'I know how much you care for the dear friends who took care of us when we were forsaken!'

And with this shaft she marched out of the room, while her father again laughed, and said,
'Have they been training her for the tragic stage? Never mind, Edda, the little vixen will
come to her senses upstairs, and be begging to go.'

'I don't think she will,' said Alice sadly; 'she is not that sort of stuff, and she was very
fond of Mrs. Nugent.  Oh, Alwyn! if you could let us off.'

'Not after that explosion, certainly,' he said.  'Besides, I promised Jerningham, and such
an excuse would never hold water.  She is not even a relation.'

'No, but she was very good to me.'

'The more reason why you should not stay at home and be hipped. Never mind that silly girl.
She will be all right by and by.'

On the contrary, she did not come down to luncheon, and when, about an hour later, Alice, after
writing a few tender loving words to the mourners, went up to her daughter's room, it was to
find a limp and deplorable figure lying across the bed, and to be greeted with a fresh outburst
of sobs and inarticulate exclamations.

'Oh, Nuttie, dear, this will not do!  It is not right.  Dear good Mrs. Nugent herself would
tell you that this is not the way any one so good and so suffering should be grieved for.  Think--'

'Oh, I know all that!' cried Nuttie, impatiently; 'but she--she was the dearest--and nobody
cares for her but me.  Not even you--'

Again Alice tried to debate the point, and urge on her the duties of moderation, self-control,
and obedience, but the poor gentle mother was at a great disadvantage.

In the first place, she respected and almost envied her daughter's resistance, and really did
not know whether it was timidity or principle that made it her instinct to act otherwise; in
the next, Ursula could always talk her down; and, in the third, she was, and greatly she reproached
herself for that same, in great dread of setting herself off into tears that might become hysterical
if she once gave way to them.  And what would be her husband's feelings if she too collapsed
and became unpresentable.

So, having once convinced herself that even if Nuttie had been a consenting party, no amount
of cold water and eau-de-cologne would bring those bloodshot eyes, swollen lids, and mottled
cheeks to be fit to be seen, she fled as fast as possible from the gasps of barbed reproaches
which put her own composure in peril, and dressed with the heaviest of hearts, coupled with
the utmost solicitude to look her best.  If she had not thought it absolutely wrong, she would
even have followed Martin's suggestion, and put on a soupcon of rouge; but by the time she
was summoned to the carriage the feverishness of her effort at self-control had done the work,
and her husband had paid her the compliment of observing that she looked pretty enough for two.

Nuttie heard them drive off, with a burst of fresh misery of indignation against her mother--now
as a slave and a victim--now as forgetting her old home.  It was chiefly in mutterings; she
had pretty well used up her tears, for, unconsciously perhaps, she had worked them up as a
defensive weapon against being carried to the party; and now that the danger was over, her
head throbbed, her eyes burnt, and her throat ached too much for her to wish to cry any more.
She had not felt physically like this, since the day, seven years ago, when she and Mildred
Sharpe had been found suspiciously toying with the key of the arithmetic, and had been debarred
from trying for the prize.  Then she felt debased and guilty; now she felt, or ought to feel,
like a heroine maintaining the right.

She got up and set herself to rights as well as she could.  Martin, who had been allowed to
know that she had lost an old friend, petted and pitied her, and brought her a substantial
meal with her tea, after which she set out to evensong at the church at the end of the square,
well veiled under a shady hat, and with a conviction that something ought to happen.

Nothing did, however, happen; she met no one whom she knew, the psalms were not particularly
appropriate, and her attention wandered away to the scene at home.  She did not come back,
as she was sure she ought to have done, soothed, exhilarated, and refreshed, but rather in
a rasped state of mind, and a conscience making a vehement struggle to believe itself in the
right--a matter in which she thoroughly succeeded.

She wrote a long letter to Mary Nugent, and shed some softer tears over it, then she built
a few castles on her future escape from the power of her father; and then she picked up Reata,
and became absorbed in it, regretting only the weakness of her eyes, and the darkening of the
summer evening.

She was still reading when the others came home.  Her mother kissed her, but looked so languid
and tired-out that Nuttie was shocked, and Martin declared that she ought not to go down to dinner.

A tete-a-tete dinner between father and daughter was too dreadful to Alice's imagination to
be permitted, so she dressed and went down, looking like a ghost.  Mr. Egremont scowled at
Nuttie, Nuttie scowled at him, each considering it the fault of the other, and when at last
it was over, Alice gave up the struggle, and went off to bed, leaving a contrite message that
her headache would be better to-morrow.

'All your accursed folly and obstinacy,' observed Mr. Egremont, when Nuttie, with a tone of
monition gave him the message.

'I should call it the consequence of being dragged out with a sore heart,' returned Nuttie--a
little speech she had prepared ever since she had seen how knocked up her mother was.

'Then I should recommend keeping your ideas to yourself,' he answered, looking at her in his
annihilating manner.

She was put down. She thought afterwards of a hundred things that she could have said to him,
but she was crushed for the present, and when he went out she could only betake herself to
Reata, and forget all about it as much as she could.

When she went upstairs, at the end of the third volume, Martin was on the watch, and would
not let her go into the room.

'I have been at hand, ma'am, without her guessing it, and I am happy to say her tears has had
a free course when she was in bed.  Yes, ma'am, suppressed grief is always dangerous.'

Mrs. Egremont was still prostrate with fatigue and headache the next day, and Nuttie had all
the quiet luxuriating in reminiscences she desired.  Her father was vexed and angry, and kept
out of the way, but it must be confessed that Nuttie's spirits had so much risen by the afternoon
that it was a sore concession to consistency when she found herself not expected at Blanche's
last little afternoon dance at Lady Kirkaldy's!

CHAPTER XX.

WOLF.

  'If I cannot once or twice in a quarter bear out a knave against
  an honest man, I have but very little credit with your Worship.'
                                               --II. King Henry IV.

Another cause besides Ursula's recalcitrance and her mother's ailment contributed to disturb
Mr. Egremont, and bring him home.  His agent, by name Bulfinch, a solicitor at Redcastle, came
to him with irrefragable proofs of gross peculation on the part of the bailiff who managed
the home farm which supplied the house and stables, and showed him that it was necessary to
make a thorough investigation and change of system.

In point of fact, Mr. Egremont greatly preferred being moderately cheated to exerting himself
to investigate, but this was going beyond moderation, and the explosion had been too public
to be passed over. So he came home and sat by, while his wife and Mr. Bulfinch did the work
for him, and made it evident to him that the frauds had been of long standing, and carried
on with the connivance of the coachman, of Gregorio,--who had before Mrs. Egremont's arrival
acted as house steward,--and of the former cook.  Indeed, it was the housekeeper whom Mrs.
Egremont had left in charge, whose refusal to connive had brought about the discovery.

Gregorio's share in all was sufficiently evident, and Alice's heart leapt with hope.  Her husband
would be wholly her own if his evil genius were once departed, but Mr. Egremont would not see
it.  He had no objection to sacrifice the coachman and all his underlings, with the bailiff
and his entire family, and felt none of the pity that Alice had for the pretty, silly, half-educated
daughters; but as to the valet--Pooh! pooh! the poor fellow had been out of the way all this
time--whatever he had done had been in the dark, ages long ago, before Bridgefield knew its
mistress; he was a foreigner, and that was enough to prevent him from forgathering with the
English.  It was all their English prejudice.

'I can show you facts and figures, sir,' said Mr. Bulfinch.

'I daresay, a year or more old.  Why, I was an unprotected carcase then--a mere prey--the fellow
only did after his kind.'

Alice held her tongue then, but made an effort in private.  'Indeed, I don't think you know;
I am afraid Gregorio is not altered.  I found him out in his charges about the wine, and the
servants' wages at Nice, only you wouldn't listen.'

'His little perquisites, my dear child!  Come, nonsense, these foreign fellows don't pretend
to have the morals you ascribe to the native flunkey--generally without foundation either--they
are much of a muchness as to that; but your Frenchman or Italian does it more neatly, and is
a dozen times better servant than the other is.'

'But--'

'Oh, ay!  I know you don't like him.  But he knows his manners to you, I hope?' said Mr. Egremont,
with a suddenness that made her wish she could truthfully say he did not.

'Yes, he always is--is respectful, but somehow I see it is under protest.'

Mr. Egremont laughed.  'Rivals--yes, I see; why, you don't consider the sore trial of having
a full-grown mistress turned in upon him! Look here, you keep the keys already, but the new
fellow at the farm and all the rest of them shall account to you for everything--Gregorio and
all. Won't that satisfy you?'

''Tis not only the money, but I think Gregorio is a bad--not a good--man.'

'Ho, ho! she wants to advertise for a pious footman and coachman! eh? No, I thank you, my dear
Edda, I agree with--who was it who said, "Volez moi, mais sans m'ennuyer."'

The Rectory likewise had hoped for Gregorio's dismissal, and there were grave looks when Alice
had to confess that nothing would move her husband against him.  The Canon even lashed himself
up to say, 'I tell you how it is, Alwyn, you'll never do any good with your household, while
you keep that fellow.'

'I am not aware what description of good you expect me to do with it, Will,' coolly answered
the elder brother in a disconcerting tone.

