An enlightening commentary on the meaning of the Declaration, in the minds of the American
statesmen of the period, is furnished by the opinions which some of them expressed upon the
French Revolution while it was in progress. Gouverneur Morris, minister to France in 1789,
was a conservative republican; Thomas Jefferson was a radical democrat. Both of them had a
warm sympathy with the French "people" in the Revolution; both hoped for a republic; both recognized,
we may reasonably infer, the sufficient cause of the Revolution in the long-continued corruption
of court and nobility, and the intolerable sufferings of the lower orders; and both, we have
equal reason to believe, thought that a fair accommodation, short of a dissolution of society,
was defeated by the imbecility of the king and the treachery and malignity of a considerable
portion of the nobility. The Revolution was not caused by theories, however much it may have
been excited or guided by them. But both Morris and Jefferson saw the futility of the application
of the abstract dogma of equality and the theories of the Social Contract to the reconstruction
of government and the reorganization of society in France.

If the aristocracy were malignant--though numbers of them were far from being so--there was
also a malignant prejudice aroused against them, and M. Taine is not far wrong when he says
of this prejudice, "Its hard, dry kernel consists of the abstract idea of equality."--[The
French Revolution. By H. A. Taine. Vol. i., bk. ii., chap. ii., sec. iii. Translation. New
York: Henry Holt & Co.]--Taine's French Revolution is cynical, and, with all its accumulation
of material, omits some facts necessary to a philosophical history; but a passage following
that quoted is worth reproducing in this connection: "The treatment of the nobles of the Assembly
is the same as the treatment of the Protestants by Louis XIV. . . . One hundred thousand Frenchmen
driven out at the end of the seventeenth century, and one hundred thousand driven out at the
end of the eighteenth! Mark how an intolerant democracy completes the work of an intolerant
monarchy! The moral aristocracy was mowed down in the name of uniformity; the social aristocracy
is mowed down in the name of equality. For the second time an abstract principle, and with
the same effect, buries its blade in the heart of a living society."

Notwithstanding the world-wide advertisement of the French experiment, it has taken almost
a century for the dogma of equality, at least outside of France, to filter down from the speculative
thinkers into a general popular acceptance, as an active principle to be used in the shaping
of affairs, and to become more potent in the popular mind than tradition or habit. The attempt
is made to apply it to society with a brutal logic; and we might despair as to the result,
if we did not know that the world is not ruled by logic. Nothing is so fascinating in the hands
of the half-informed as a neat dogma; it seems the perfect key to all difficulties. The formula
is applied in contempt and ignorance of the past, as if building up were as easy as pulling
down, and as if society were a machine to be moved by mechanical appliances, and not a living
organism composed of distinct and sensitive beings. Along with the spread of a belief in the
uniformity of natural law has unfortunately gone a suggestion of parallelism of the moral law
to it, and a notion that if we can discover the right formula, human society and government
can be organized with a mathematical justice to all the parts. By many the dogma of equality
is held to be that formula, and relief from the greater evils of the social state is expected
from its logical extension.

Let us now consider some of the present movements and tendencies that are related, more or
less, to this belief:

I. Absolute equality is seen to depend upon absolute supremacy of the state. Professor Henry
Fawcett says, "Excessive dependence on the state is the most prominent characteristic of modern
socialism." "These proposals to prohibit inheritance, to abolish private property, and to make
the state the owner of all the capital and the administrator of the entire industry of the
country are put forward as representing socialism in its ultimate and highest development."--["Socialism
in Germany and the United States," Fortnightly Review, November, 1878.]

Society and government should be recast till they conform to the theory, or, let us say, to
its exaggerations. Men can unmake what they have made. There is no higher authority anywhere
than the will of the majority, no matter what the majority is in intellect and morals. Fifty-one
ignorant men have a natural right to legislate for the one hundred, as against forty-nine intelligent
men.

All men being equal, one man is as fit to legislate and execute as another. A recently elected
Congressman from Maine vehemently repudiated in a public address, as a slander, the accusation
that he was educated. The theory was that, uneducated, he was the proper representative of
the average ignorance of his district, and that ignorance ought to be represented in the legislature
in kind. The ignorant know better what they want than the educated know for them. "Their education
[that of college men] destroys natural perception and judgment; so that cultivated people are
one-sided, and their judgment is often inferior to that of the working people." "Cultured people
have made up their minds, and are hard to move." "No lawyer should be elected to a place in
any legislative body."--[Opinions of working-men, reported in "The Nationals, their Origin
and their Aims," The Atlantic Monthly, November, 1878.]

Experience is of no account, neither is history, nor tradition, nor the accumulated wisdom
of ages. On all questions of political economy, finance, morals, the ignorant man stands on
a par with the best informed as a legislator. We might cite any number of the results of these
illusions. A member of a recent House of Representatives declared that we "can repair the losses
of the war by the issue of a sufficient amount of paper money." An intelligent mechanic of
our acquaintance, a leader among the Nationals, urging the theory of his party, that banks
should be destroyed, and that the government should issue to the people as much "paper money"
as they need, denied the right of banks or of any individuals to charge interest on money.
Yet he would take rent for the house he owns.

Laws must be the direct expression of the will of the majority, and be altered solely on its
will. It would be well, therefore, to have a continuous election, so that, any day, the electors
can change their representative for a new man. It is the duty of the government to provide
for all the people, and the sovereign people will see to it that it does. The election franchise
is a natural right--a man's weapon to protect himself. It may be asked, If it is just this,
and not a sacred trust accorded to be exercised for the benefit of society, why may not a man
sell it, if it is for his interest to do so?

What is there illogical in these positions from the premise given? (M. Wolowski's Essay on
the Historical Method, prefixed to his translation of Roscher's Political Economy.)]--We need
to remember that the Creator of man, and not man himself, formed society and instituted government;
that God is always behind human society and sustains it; that marriage and the family and all
social relations are divinely established; that man's duty, coinciding with his right, is,
by the light of history, by experience, by observation of men, and by the aid of revelation,
to find out and make operative, as well as he can, the divine law in human affairs. And it
may be added that the sovereignty of the people, as a divine trust, may be as logically deduced
from the divine institution of government as the old divine right of kings. Government, by
whatever name it is called, is a matter of experience and expediency. If we submit to the will
of the majority, it is because it is more convenient to do so; and if the republic or the democracy
vindicate itself, it is because it works best, on the whole, for a particular people. But it
needs no prophet to say that it will not work long if God is shut out from it, and man, in
a full-blown socialism, is considered the ultimate authority.

II. Equality of education. In our American system there is, not only theoretically but practically,
an equality of opportunity in the public schools, which are free to all children, and rise
by gradations from the primaries to the high-schools, in which the curriculum in most respects
equals, and in variety exceeds, that of many third-class "colleges." In these schools nearly
the whole round of learning, in languages, science, and art, is touched. The system has seemed
to be the best that could be devised for a free society, where all take part in the government,
and where so much depends upon the intelligence of the electors. Certain objections, however,
have been made to it. As this essay is intended only to be tentative, we shall state some of
them, without indulging in lengthy comments.

( 1. ) The first charge is superficiality--a necessary consequence of attempting too much--and
a want of adequate preparation for special pursuits in life.

( 2. ) A uniformity in mediocrity is alleged from the use of the same text-books and methods
in all schools, for all grades and capacities. This is one of the most common criticisms on
our social state by a certain class of writers in England, who take an unflagging interest
in our development. One answer to it is this: There is more reason to expect variety of development
and character in a generally educated than in an ignorant community; there is no such uniformity
as the dull level of ignorance.

( 3. ) It is said that secular education--and the general schools open to all in a community
of mixed religions must be secular--is training the rising generation to be materialists and
socialists.

( 4. ) Perhaps a better-founded charge is that a system of equal education, with its superficiality,
creates discontent with the condition in which a majority of men must be--that of labor--a
distaste for trades and for hand-work, an idea that what is called intellectual labor (let
us say, casting up accounts in a shop, or writing trashy stories for a sensational newspaper)
is more honorable than physical labor; and encourages the false notion that "the elevation
of the working classes" implies the removal of men and women from those classes.

We should hesitate to draw adverse conclusions in regard to a system yet so young that its
results cannot be fairly estimated. Only after two or three generations can its effects upon
the character of a great people be measured: Observations differ, and testimony is difficult
to obtain. We think it safe to say that those states are most prosperous which have the best
free schools. But if the philosopher inquires as to the general effect upon the national character
in respect to the objections named, he must wait for a reply.

III. The pursuit of the chimera of social equality, from the belief that it should logically
follow political equality; resulting in extravagance, misapplication of natural capacities,
a notion that physical labor is dishonorable, or that the state should compel all to labor
alike, and in efforts to remove inequalities of condition by legislation.

IV. The equality of the sexes. The stir in the middle of the eighteenth century gave a great
impetus to the emancipation of woman; though, curiously enough, Rousseau, in unfolding his
plan of education for Sophie, in Emile, inculcates an almost Oriental subjection of woman--her
education simply that she may please man. The true enfranchisement of woman--that is, the recognition
(by herself as well as by man) of her real place in the economy of the world, in the full development
of her capacities--is the greatest gain to civilization since the Christian era. The movement
has its excesses, and the gain has not been without loss.

How far the expectation has been realized that women, in fiction, for instance, would be more
accurately described, better understood, and appear as nobler and lovelier beings when women
wrote the novels, this is not the place to inquire. The movement has results which are unavoidable
in a period of transition, and probably only temporary. The education of woman and the development
of her powers hold the greatest promise for the regeneration of society. But this development,
yet in its infancy, and pursued with much crudeness and misconception of the end, is not enough.
Woman would not only be equal with man, but would be like him; that is, perform in society
the functions he now performs. Here, again, the notion of equality is pushed towards uniformity.
The reformers admit structural differences in the sexes, though these, they say, are greatly
exaggerated by subjection; but the functional differences are mainly to be eliminated. Women
ought to mingle in all the occupations of men, as if the physical differences did not exist.
The movement goes to obliterate, as far as possible, the distinction between sexes. Nature
is, no doubt, amused at this attempt. A recent writer--["Biology and Woman's Rights," Quarterly
Journal of Science, November, 1878.]--, says: "The 'femme libre' [free woman] of the new social
order may, indeed, escape the charge of neglecting her family and her household by contending
that it is not her vocation to become a wife and a mother! Why, then, we ask, is she constituted
a woman at all? Merely that she may become a sort of second-rate man?"

The truth is that this movement, based always upon a misconception of equality, so far as it
would change the duties of the sexes, is a retrograde.--["It has been frequently observed that
among declining nations the social differences between the two sexes are first obliterated,
and afterwards even the intellectual differences. The more masculine the women become, the
more effeminate become the men. It is no good symptom when there are almost as many female
writers and female rulers as there are male. Such was the case, for instance, in the Hellenistic
kingdoms, and in the age of the Caesars. What today is called by many the emancipation of woman
would ultimately end in the dissolution of the family, and, if carried out, render poor service
to the majority of women. If man and woman were placed entirely on the same level, and if in
the competition between the two sexes nothing but an actual superiority should decide, it is
to be feared that woman would soon be relegated to a condition as hard as that in which she
is found among all barbarous nations. It is precisely family life and higher civilization that
have emancipated woman. Those theorizers who, led astray by the dark side of higher civilization,
preach a community of goods, generally contemplate in their simultaneous recommendation of
the emancipation of woman a more or less developed form of a community of wives. The grounds
of the two institutions are very similar." (Roscher's Political Economy, p. 250.) Note also
that difference in costumes of the sexes is least apparent among lowly civilized peoples.]--One
of the most striking features in our progress from barbarism to civilization is the proper
adjustment of the work for men and women. One test of a civilization is the difference of this
work. This is a question not merely of division of labor, but of differentiation with regard
to sex. It not only takes into account structural differences and physiological disadvantages,
but it recognizes the finer and higher use of woman in society.

The attainable, not to say the ideal, society requires an increase rather than a decrease of
the differences between the sexes. The differences may be due to physical organization, but
the structural divergence is but a faint type of deeper separation in mental and spiritual
constitution. That which makes the charm and power of woman, that for which she is created,
is as distinctly feminine as that which makes the charm and power of men is masculine. Progress
requires constant differentiation, and the line of this is the development of each sex in its
special functions, each being true to the highest ideal for itself, which is not that the woman
should be a man, or the man a woman. The enjoyment of social life rests very largely upon the
encounter and play of the subtle peculiarities which mark the two sexes; and society, in the
limited sense of the word, not less than the whole structure of our civilization, requires
the development of these peculiarities. It is in diversity, and not in an equality tending
to uniformity, that we are to expect the best results from the race.

V. Equality of races; or rather a removal of the inequalities, social and political, arising
in the contact of different races by intermarriage.

Perhaps equality is hardly the word to use here, since uniformity is the thing aimed at; but
the root of the proposal is in the dogma we are considering. The tendency of the age is to
uniformity. The facilities of travel and communication, the new inventions and the use of machinery
in manufacturing, bring men into close and uniform relations, and induce the disappearance
of national characteristics and of race peculiarities. Men, the world over, are getting to
dress alike, eat alike, and disbelieve in the same things: It is the sentimental complaint
of the traveler that his search for the picturesque is ever more difficult, that race distinctions
and habits are in a way to be improved off the face of the earth, and that a most uninteresting
monotony is supervening. The complaint is not wholly sentimental, and has a deeper philosophical
reason than the mere pleasure in variety on this planet.

We find a striking illustration of the equalizing, not to say leveling, tendency of the age
in an able paper by Canon George Rawlinson, of the University of Oxford, contributed recently
to an American periodical of a high class and conservative character.--["Duties of Higher towards
Lower Races." By George Rawlinson. Princeton Re-view. November, 1878. New York.]--This paper
proposes, as a remedy for the social and political evils caused by the negro element in our
population, the miscegenation of the white and black races, to the end that the black race
may be wholly absorbed in the white--an absorption of four millions by thirty-six millions,
which he thinks might reasonably be expected in about a century, when the lower type would
disappear altogether.

Perhaps the pleasure of being absorbed is not equal to the pleasure of absorbing, and we cannot
say how this proposal will commend itself to the victims of the euthanasia. The results of
miscegenation on this continent--black with red, and white with black--the results morally,
intellectually, and physically, are not such as to make it attractive to the American people.

