Much as I have written during the past 40 years, it was reserved for my old age to discover
within me the power of poetical expression. I had rhymed in my youth and translated French
verse, but until I wrote my one sonnet, poetry had been an untried field. The one-sided pessimistic
pictures that Australian poets and writers present are false in the impression they make on
the outside world and on ourselves. They lead us to forget the beauty and the brightness of
the world we live in. What we need is, as Matthew Arnold says of life, "to see Australia steadily
and see it whole." It is not wise to allow the "deadbeat"--the remittance man, the gaunt shepherd
with his starving flocks and herds, the free selector on an arid patch, the drink shanty where
the rouseabouts and shearers knock down their cheques, the race meeting where high and low,
rich and poor, are filled with the gambler's ill luck--fill the foreground of the picture of
Australian life. These reflections led me to a protest, in the form of a sonnet published in
The Register some years ago:--

    When will some new Australian poet rise
    To all the height and glory of his theme?
    Nor on the sombre side for ever dream
    Our hare, baked plains, our pitiless blue skies,
    'Neath which the haggard bushman strains his eyes
    To find some waterhole or hidden stream
    To save himself and flocks in want extreme!
    This is not all Australia! Let us prize
    Our grand inheritance! Had sunny Greece
    More light, more glow, more freedom, or more mirth?
    Ours are wide vistas bathed in purest air--
    Youth's outdoor pleasures, Age's indoor peace--
    Where could we find a fairer home on earth
    Which we ourselves are free to make more fair?

Just as years before my interest had been kindled in the establishment of our system of State
education, and later in the University and higher education, so more recently has the inauguration
of the Froebel system of kindergarten training appealed most strongly to my reason and judgment.
There was a time in the history of education, long after the necessity for expert teaching
in primary and secondary schools had been recognised, when the training of the infant mind
was left to the least skilled assistant on the staff of a school. With the late Mr. J. A. Hartley,
whose theory was that the earliest beginnings of education needed even greater skill in the
teacher than the higher branches, I had long regarded the policy as mistaken; but modern educationists
have changed all that, and the training of tiny mites of two or three summers and upwards is
regarded as of equal importance with that of children of a larger growth. South Australia owes
its free kindergarten to the personal initiative and private munificence of the Rev. Bertram
Hawker, youngest son of the late Hon. G. C. Hawker. I had already met, and admired the kindergarten
work of, Miss Newton when in Sydney, and was delighted when she accepted Mr. Hawker's invitation
to inaugurate the system in Adelaide. Indeed, the time of her stay here during September, 1905,
might well have been regarded as a special visitation of educational experts, for, in addition
to Miss Newton, the directors of education from New South Wales and Victoria (Messrs. G. H.
Knibbs and F. Tate) took part in the celebrations. Many interesting meetings led up to the
formation of the Kindergarten Union. My niece, Mrs. J. P. Morice, was appointed hon. secretary,
and I became one of the Vice-Presidents. On joining the union I was proud of the fact that
I was the first member to pay a subscription. The free kindergarten has come to South Australia
to stay, and is fast growing into an integral part of our system of education. I have rejoiced
in the progress of the movement, and feel that the future will witness the realization of my
ideal of a ladder that will reach from the kindergarten to the University, as outlined in articles
I wrote for The Register at that time.

CHAPTER XXIV.

THE EIGHTIETH MILESTONE AND THE END.

On October 31, 1905, I celebrated my eightieth birthday. Twelve months earlier, writing to
a friend, I said:--"I entered my eightieth year on Monday, and I enjoy life as much as I did
at 18; indeed, in many respects I enjoy it more." The birthday gathering took place in the
schoolroom of the Unitarian Church, the church to which I had owed so much happiness through
the lifting of the dark shadows of my earlier religious beliefs. Surrounded by friends who
had taken their share in the development of my beloved State, I realized one of the happiest
times of my life. I had hoped that the celebration would have helped the cause of effective
voting, which had been predominant in my mind since 1859. By my interests and work in so many
other directions--in literature, journalism, education, philanthropy, and religion--which had
been testified to by so many notable people on that occasion, I hoped to prove that I was not
a mere faddist, who could be led away by a chimerical fantasy. I wanted the world to understand
that I was a clear-brained, commonsense woman of the world, whose views on effective voting
and other political questions were as worthy of credence as her work in other directions had
been worthy of acceptance. The greetings of my many friends from all parts of the Commonwealth
on that day brought so much joy to me that there was little wonder I was able to conclude my
birthday poem "Australian spring" with the lines:--

    With eighty winters o'er my head,
    Within my heart there's Spring.

Full as my life was with its immediate interests, the growth and development of the outside
world claimed a good share of my attention. The heated controversies in the motherland over
the preachings and teaching of the Rev. R. J. Campbell found their echo here, and I was glad
to be able to support in pulpit and newspaper the stand made by t he courageous London preacher
of modern thought. How changed the outlook of the world from my childhood's days, when Sunday
was a day of strict theological habit, from which no departure could be permitted! The laxity
of modern life, by comparison is, I think, somewhat appalling. We have made the mistake of
breaking away from old beliefs and convictions without replacing them with something better.
We do not make as much, or as good, use of our Sundays as we might do. There is a medium between
the rigid Sabbatarianism of our ancestors and the absolute waste of the day of rest in mere
pleasure and frivolity. All the world is deploring the secularizing of Sunday. Not only is
churchgoing perfunctory or absent, but in all ranks of life there is a disposition to make
it a day of rest and amusement--sometimes the amusement rather than the rest. Sunday, the Sabbath,
as Alex McLaren pointed out to me, is not a day taken from us, but a day given to us. "Behold,
I have given you the Sabbath!" For what? For rest for man and beast, but also to be a milestone
in our upward and onward progress--a day for not only wearing best clothes, but for reading
our best books and thinking our best thoughts. I have often grieved at the small congregations
in other churches no less than in my own, and the grief was aggravated by the knowledge that
those who were absent from church were not necessarily otherwise well employed. I derived so
much pleasure from the excellent and cultured sermons of my friend the Rev. John Reid during
his term of office here that I regretted the fact that others who might gain equally from them
were not there to hear them. I would like to see among the young people a finer conception
of the duties of citizenship, which, if not finding expression in church attendance, may develop
in some way that will be noble and useful to society.

In the meantime the work of the Effective Voting League had been rather at a standstill. Mrs.
Young's illness had caused her resignation, and until she again took up the work nothing further
was done to help Mr. Coombe in his Parliamentary agitation. In 1908, however, we began a vigorous
campaign, and towards the close of the year the propaganda work was being carried into all
parts of the State. Although I was then 83, I travelled to Petersburg to lecture to a good
audience. On the same night Mrs. Young addressed a fine gathering at Mount Gambier, and from
that time the work has gone on unceasingly. The last great effort was made through the newspaper
ballot of September, 1909, when a public count of about 10,000 votes was completed with all
explanations during the evening. The difficulties that were supposed to stand in the way of
a general acceptance of effective voting have been entirely swept away. Tasmania and South
Africa have successfully demonstrated the practicability, no less than the justice, of the
system. Now we get to the bedrock of the objections raised to its adoption, and we find that
they exist only in the minds of the politicians themselves; but the people have faith in effective
voting, and I believe the time to be near when they will demand equitable representation in
every Legislature in the world. The movement has gone too far to be checked, and the electoral
unrest which is so common all over the world will eventually find expression in the best of
all electoral systems, which I claim to be effective voting.

Among the many friends I had made in the other States there was none I admired more for her
public spiritedness than Miss Vida Goldstein. I have been associated with her on many platforms
and in many branches of work. Her versatility is great, but there is little doubt that her
chief work lies in helping women and children. Her life is practically spent in battling for
her sex. Although I was the first woman in Australia to become a Parliamentary candidate, Miss
Goldstein has since exceeded my achievement by a second candidature for the Senate. It was
during her visit here last May-June as a delegate to the State Children's Congress that she
inaugurated the Women's Non-party Political Association, which is apparently a growing force.
In a general way the aims of the society bear a strong resemblance to those of the social students'
society, many of its members having also belonged to the earlier association. It was a hopeful
sign to me that it included among its members people of all political views working chiefly
in the interests of women and children. Of this Society also I became the first President,
and the fact that on its platform was included proportional representation was an incentive
for me to work for it. The education of women on public and social questions, so that they
will be able to work side by side with the opposite sex for the public good will, I think,
help in the solution of social problems that are now obstacles in the path of progress. In
addition to other literary work for the year 1909 I was asked by Miss Alice Henry to revise
my book on State children in order to make it acceptable and applicable to American conditions.
It was a big undertaking, but I think successful. The book, as originally written had already
done good work in Western Australia, where the conditions of infant mortality were extremely
alarming, and in England also; and there is ample scope for such a work in America, which is
still far behind even the most backward Australian State in its care for dependent children.

