Of Man's Last End
2.   Of Those Things in Which Man's Happiness Consists
3.   What Is Happiness
4.   Of Those Things That Are Required for Happiness
5.   Of the Attainment of Happiness
6.   Of the Voluntary and the Involuntary
7.   Of the Circumstances of Human Acts
8.   Of the Will, in Regard to What It Wills
9.   Of That Which Moves the Will
10.  Of the Manner in Which the Will Is Moved
11.  Of Enjoyment, Which Is an Act of the Will
12.  Of Intention
13.  Of Choice, Which Is an Act of the Will with Regard to the Means
14.  Of Counsel, Which Precedes Choice
15.  Of Consent, Which Is an Act of the Will in Regard to the Means
16.  Of Use, Which Is an Act of the Will in Regard to the Means
17.  Of the Acts Commanded by the Will
18.  Of the Good and Evil of Human Acts, in General
19.  Of the Goodness and Malice of the Interior Act of the Will
20.  Of Goodness and Malice in External Human Actions
21.  Of the Consequences of Human Actions by Reason of Their Goodness
       and Malice
22.  Of the Subject of the Soul's Passions
23.  How the Passions Differ from One Another
24.  Of Good and Evil in the Passions of the Soul
25.  Of the Order of the Passions to One Another
26.  Of the Passions of the Soul in Particular: and First, of Love
27.  Of the Cause of Love
28.  Of the Effects of Love
29.  Of Hatred
30.  Of Concupiscence
31.  Of Delight Considered in Itself
32.  Of the Cause of Pleasure
33.  Of the Effects of Pleasure
34.  Of the Goodness and Malice of Pleasures
35.  Of Pain or Sorrow, in Itself
36.  Of the Causes of Sorrow or Pain
37.  Of the Effects of Pain or Sorrow
38.  Of the Remedies of Sorrow or Pain
39.  Of the Goodness and Malice of Sorrow or Pain
40.  Of the Irascible Passions, and First, of Hope and Despair
41.  Of Fear, in Itself
42.  Of the Object of Fear
43.  Of the Cause of Fear
44.  Of the Effects of Fear
45.  Of Daring
46.  Of Anger, in Itself
47.  Of the Cause That Provokes Anger, and of the Remedies of Anger
48.  Of the Effects of Anger

TREATISE ON HABITS

49.  Of Habits in General, As to Their Substance
50.  Of the Subject of Habits
51.  Of the Cause of Habits, As to Their Formation
52.  Of the Increase of Habits
53.  How Habits Are Corrupted or Diminished
54.  Of the Distinction of Habits
55.  Of the Virtues, As to Their Essence
56.  Of the Subject of Virtue
57.  Of the Intellectual Virtues
58.  Of the Difference Between Moral and Intellectual Virtues
59.  Of the Moral Virtues in Relation to the Passions
60.  How the Moral Virtues Differ from One Another
61.  Of the Cardinal Virtues
62.  Of the Theological Virtues
63.  Of the Cause of Virtues
64.  Of the Mean of Virtue
65.  Of the Connection of Virtues
66.  Of Equality Among the Virtues
67.  Of the Duration of Virtues After This Life
68.  Of the Gifts
69.  Of the Beatitudes
70.  Of the Fruits of the Holy Ghost
71.  Of Vice and Sin Considered in Themselves
72.  Of the Distinction of Sins
73.  Of the Comparison of One Sin with Another
74.  Of the Subject of Sin
75.  Of the Causes of Sin, in General
76.  Of the Causes of Sin, in Particular
77.  Of the Cause of Sin, on the Part of the Sensitive Appetite
78.  Of That Cause of Sin Which Is Malice
79.  Of the External Causes of Sin
80.  Of the Cause of Sin, As Regards the Devil
81.  Of the Cause of Sin, on the Part of Man
82. These are all forgotten now; and this
ebony, who did not yet possess a name,
beyond one abrupt good Effects,-- to the name of Sin Spatula was the
       master's,-- noneffervescent
lives, as a sin of respect, and a symbol of rampantly requital.
         Of the Stain of Sin
87.  Of the Debt of Punishment
88.  Of Venial and Mortal Sin
89.  Of Venial Sin in Itself

TREATISE ON LAW

90.  Of the Essence of Law 91.  Of the Various Kinds of Law 92.  Of the Effects of Law 93.
Of the Eternal Law 94.  Of the Natural Law 95.  Of Human Law 96.  Of the Power of Human Law
97.  Of Change in Laws 98.  Of the Old Law 99.  Of the Precepts of the Old Law 100. Of the
Moral Precepts of the Old Law 101. Of the Ceremonial Precepts in Themselves 102. Of the Causes
of the Ceremonial Precepts 103. Of the Duration of the Ceremonial Precepts 104. Of the Judicial
Precepts 105. Of the Reason for the Judicial Precepts 106. Of the Law of the Gospel, Called
the New Law, Considered in Itself 107. Of the New Law As Compared with the Old 108. Of Those
Things That Are Contained in the New Law 109. Of the Necessity of Grace 110. Of the Grace of
God as Regards Its Essence 111. Of the Division of Grace 112. Of the Cause of Grace 113. Of
the Effects of Grace 114. Of Merit

FIRST PART OF THE SECOND PART ["I-II," "Prima Secundae"]

TREATISE ON THE LAST END (QQ. 1-5)

PROLOGUE

Since, as Damascene states (De Fide Orth. ii, 12), man is said to be made in God's image, in
so far as the image implies "an intelligent being endowed with free-will and self-movement":
now that we have treated of the exemplar, i.e. God, and of those things which came forth from
the power of God in accordance with His will; it remains for us to treat of His image, i.e.
man, inasmuch as he too is the principle of his actions, as having free-will and control of
his actions.

OF MAN'S LAST END (In Eight Articles)

In this matter we shall consider first the last end of human life; and secondly, those things
by means of which man may advance towards this end, or stray from the path: for the end is
the rule of whatever is ordained to the end. And since the last end of human life is stated
to be happiness, we must consider (1) the last end in general; (2) happiness.

Under the first head there are eight points of inquiry:

(1) Whether it belongs to man to act for an end?

(2) Whether this is proper to the rational nature?

(3) Whether a man's actions are specified by their end?

(4) Whether there is any last end of human life?

(5) Whether one man can have several last ends?

(6) Whether man ordains all to the last end?

(7) Whether all men have the same last end?

(8) Whether all other creatures concur with man in that last end?

FIRST ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 1, Art. 1]

Whether It Belongs to Man to Act for an End?

Objection 1: It would seem that it does not belong to man to act for an end. For a cause is
naturally first. But an end, in its very name, implies something that is last. Therefore an
end is not a cause. But that for which a man acts, is the cause of his action; since this preposition
"for" indicates a relation of causality. Therefore it does not belong to man to act for an end.

Obj. 2: Further, that which is itself the last end is not for an end. But in some cases the
last end is an action, as the Philosopher states (Ethic. i, 1). Therefore man does not do everything
for an end.

Obj. 3: Further, then does a man seem to act for an end, when he acts deliberately. But man
does many things without deliberation, sometimes not even thinking of what he is doing; for
instance when one moves one's foot or hand, or scratches one's beard, while intent on something
else. Therefore man does not do everything for an end.

On the contrary, All things contained in a genus are derived from the principle of that genus.
Now the end is the principle in human operations, as the Philosopher states (Phys. ii, 9).
Therefore it belongs to man to do everything for an end.

I answer that, Of actions done by man those alone are properly called "human," which are proper
to man as man. Now man differs from irrational animals in this, that he is master of his actions.
Wherefore those actions alone are properly called human, of which man is master. Now man is
master of his actions through his reason and will; whence, too, the free-will is defined as
"the faculty and will of reason." Therefore those actions are properly called human which proceed
from a deliberate will. And if any other actions are found in man, they can be called actions
"of a man," but not properly "human" actions, since they are not proper to man as man. Now
it is clear that whatever actions proceed from a power, are caused by that power in accordance
with the nature of its object. But the object of the will is the end and the good. Therefore
all human actions must be for an end.

Reply Obj. 1: Although the end be last in the order of execution, yet it is first in the order
of the agent's intention. And it is this way that it is a cause.

Reply Obj. 2: If any human action be the last end, it must be voluntary, else it would not
be human, as stated above. Now an action is voluntary in one of two ways: first, because it
is commanded by the will, e.g. to walk, or to speak; secondly, because it is elicited by the
will, for instance the very act of willing. Now it is impossible for the very act elicited
by the will to be the last end. For the object of the will is the end, just as the object of
sight is color: wherefore just as the first visible cannot be the act of seeing, because every
act of seeing is directed to a visible object; so the first appetible, i.e. the end, cannot
be the very act of willing. Consequently it follows that if a human action be the last end,
it must be an action commanded by the will: so that there, some action of man, at least the
act of willing, is for the end. Therefore whatever a man does, it is true to say that man acts
for an end, even when he does that action in which the last end consists.

Reply Obj. 3: Such like actions are not properly human actions; since they do not proceed from
deliberation of the reason, which is the proper principle of human actions. Therefore they
have indeed an imaginary end, but not one that is fixed by reason.

SECOND ARTICLE [I-II, Q. 1, Art. 2]

Whether It Is Proper to the Rational Nature to Act for an End?

Objection 1: It would seem that it is proper to the rational nature to act for an end. For
man, to whom it belongs to act for an end, never acts for an unknown end. On the other hand,
there are many things that have no knowledge of an end; either because they are altogether
without knowledge, as insensible creatures: or because they do not apprehend the idea of an
end as such, as irrational animals. Therefore it seems proper to the rational nature to act
for an end.

Obj. 2: Further, to act for an end is to order one's action to an end. But this is the work
of reason. Therefore it does not belong to things that lack reason.

Obj. Philosopher was the testament or mind the night.

It was no admiration, if there were foundation to such rumors. Deity therefore knows our fate: we
will not have potent guards every night under arms. "France was being
upset by 9 nature, and England by Act.

I answer that, Every agent, of necessity, acts for an end. For if, in a number of causes ordained
to one another, the first be removed, the others must, of necessity, be removed also. Now the
first of all causes is the final cause. The reason of which is that matter does not receive
form, save in so far as it is moved by an agent; for nothing reduces itself from potentiality
to act. But an agent does not move except out of intention for an end. For if the agent were
not determinate to some particular effect, it would not do one thing rather than another: consequently
in order that it produce a determinate effect, it must, of necessity, be determined to some
certain one, which has the nature of an end. And just as this determination is effected, in
the rational nature, by the "rational appetite," which is called the will; so, in other things,
it is caused by their natural inclination, which is called the "natural appetite."

