And so, when he was turned out of prison again, without a penny in his pocket, he went straight
to Jack Duane. He went full of humility and gratitude; for Duane was a gentleman, and a man
with a profession--and it was remarkable that he should be willing to throw in his lot with
a humble workingman, one who had even been a beggar and a tramp. Jurgis could not see what
help he could be to him; but he did not understand that a man like himself--who could be trusted
to stand by any one who was kind to him--was as rare among criminals as among any other class
of men.

The address Jurgis had was a garret room in the Ghetto district, the home of a pretty little
French girl, Duane's mistress, who sewed all day, and eked out her living by prostitution.
He had gone elsewhere, she told Jurgis--he was afraid to stay there now, on account of the
police. The new address was a cellar dive, whose proprietor said that he had never heard of
Duane; but after he had put Jurgis through a catechism he showed him a back stairs which led
to a "fence" in the rear of a pawnbroker's shop, and thence to a number of assignation rooms,
in one of which Duane was hiding.

Duane was glad to see him; he was without a cent of money, he said, and had been waiting for
Jurgis to help him get some. He explained his plan--in fact he spent the day in laying bare
to his friend the criminal world of the city, and in showing him how he might earn himself
a living in it. That winter he would have a hard time, on account of his arm, and because of
an unwonted fit of activity of the police; but so long as he was unknown to them he would be
safe if he were careful. Here at "Papa" Hanson's (so they called the old man who kept the dive)
he might rest at ease, for "Papa" Hanson was "square"--would stand by him so long as he paid,
and gave him an hour's notice if there were to be a police raid. Also Rosensteg, the pawnbroker,
would buy anything he had for a third of its value, and guarantee to keep it hidden for a year.

There was an oil stove in the little cupboard of a room, and they had some supper; and then
about eleven o'clock at night they sallied forth together, by a rear entrance to the place,
Duane armed with a slingshot. They came to a residence district, and he sprang up a lamppost
and blew out the light, and then the two dodged into the shelter of an area step and hid in
silence.

Pretty soon a man came by, a workingman--and they let him go. Then after a long interval came
the heavy tread of a policeman, and they held their breath till he was gone. Though half-frozen,
they waited a full quarter of an hour after that--and then again came footsteps, walking briskly.
Duane nudged Jurgis, and the instant the man had passed they rose up. Duane stole out as silently
as a shadow, and a second later Jurgis heard a thud and a stifled cry. He was only a couple
of feet behind, and he leaped to stop the man's mouth, while Duane held him fast by the arms,
as they had agreed. But the man was limp and showed a tendency to fall, and so Jurgis had only
to hold him by the collar, while the other, with swift fingers, went through his pockets--ripping
open, first his overcoat, and then his coat, and then his vest, searching inside and outside,
and transferring the contents into his own pockets. At last, after feeling of the man's fingers
and in his necktie, Duane whispered, "That's all!" and they dragged him to the area and dropped
him in. Then Jurgis went one way and his friend the other, walking briskly.

The latter arrived first, and Jurgis found him examining the "swag." There was a gold watch,
for one thing, with a chain and locket; there was a silver pencil, and a matchbox, and a handful
of small change, and finally a cardcase. This last Duane opened feverishly--there were letters
and checks, and two theater-tickets, and at last, in the back part, a wad of bills. He counted
them--there was a twenty, five tens, four fives, and three ones. Duane drew a long breath.
"That lets us out!" he said.

After further examination, they burned the cardcase and its contents, all but the bills, and
likewise the picture of a little girl in the locket. Then Duane took the watch and trinkets
downstairs, and came back with sixteen dollars. "The old scoundrel said the case was filled,"
he said. "It's a lie, but he knows I want the money."

They divided up the spoils, and Jurgis got as his share fifty-five dollars and some change.
He protested that it was too much, but the other had agreed to divide even. That was a good
haul, he said, better than average.

When they got up in the morning, Jurgis was sent out to buy a paper; one of the pleasures of
committing a crime was the reading about it afterward. "I had a pal that always did it," Duane
remarked, laughing--"until one day he read that he had left three thousand dollars in a lower
inside pocket of his party's vest!"

There was a half-column account of the robbery--it was evident that a gang was operating in
the neighborhood, said the paper, for it was the third within a week, and the police were apparently
powerless. The victim was an insurance agent, and he had lost a hundred and ten dollars that
did not belong to him. He had chanced to have his name marked on his shirt, otherwise he would
not have been identified yet. His assailant had hit him too hard, and he was suffering from
concussion of the brain; and also he had been half-frozen when found, and would lose three
fingers on his right hand. The enterprising newspaper reporter had taken all this information
to his family, and told how they had received it.

Since it was Jurgis's first experience, these details naturally caused him some worriment;
but the other laughed coolly--it was the way of the game, and there was no helping it. Before
long Jurgis would think no more of it than they did in the yards of knocking out a bullock.
"It's a case of us or the other fellow, and I say the other fellow, every time," he observed.

"Still," said Jurgis, reflectively, "he never did us any harm."

"He was doing it to somebody as hard as he could, you can be sure of that," said his friend.

Duane had already explained to Jurgis that if a man of their trade were known he would have
to work all the time to satisfy the demands of the police. Therefore it would be better for
Jurgis to stay in hiding and never be seen in public with his pal. But Jurgis soon got very
tired of staying in hiding. In a couple of weeks he was feeling strong and beginning to use
his arm, and then he could not stand it any longer. Duane, who had done a job of some sort
by himself, and made a truce with the powers, brought over Marie, his little French girl, to
share with him; but even that did not avail for long, and in the end he had to give up arguing,
and take Jurgis out and introduce him to the saloons and "sporting houses" where the big crooks
and "holdup men" hung out.

And so Jurgis got a glimpse of the high-class criminal world of Chicago. The city, which was
owned by an oligarchy of businessmen, being nominally ruled by the people, a huge army of graft
was necessary for the purpose of effecting the transfer of power. Twice a year, in the spring
and fall elections, millions of dollars were furnished by the businessmen and expended by this
army; meetings were held and clever speakers were hired, bands played and rockets sizzled,
tons of documents and reservoirs of drinks were distributed, and tens of thousands of votes
were bought for cash. And this army of graft had, of course, to be maintained the year round.
The leaders and organizers were maintained by the businessmen directly--aldermen and legislators
by means of bribes, party officials out of the campaign funds, lobbyists and corporation lawyers
in the form of salaries, contractors by means of jobs, labor union leaders by subsidies, and
newspaper proprietors and editors by advertisements. The rank and file, however, were either
foisted upon the city, or else lived off the population directly. There was the police department,
and the fire and water departments, and the whole balance of the civil list, from the meanest
office boy to the head of a city department; and for the horde who could find no room in these,
there was the world of vice and crime, there was license to seduce, to swindle and plunder
and prey. The law forbade Sunday drinking; and this had delivered the saloon-keepers into the
hands of the police, and made an alliance between them necessary. The law forbade prostitution;
and this had brought the "madames" into the combination. It was the same with the gambling-house
keeper and the poolroom man, and the same with any other man or woman who had a means of getting
"graft," and was willing to pay over a share of it: the green-goods man and the highwayman,
the pickpocket and the sneak thief, and the receiver of stolen goods, the seller of adulterated
milk, of stale fruit and diseased meat, the proprietor of unsanitary tenements, the fake doctor
and the usurer, the beggar and the "pushcart man," the prize fighter and the professional slugger,
the race-track "tout," the procurer, the white-slave agent, and the expert seducer of young
girls. All of these agencies of corruption were banded together, and leagued in blood brotherhood
with the politician and the police; more often than not they were one and the same person,--the
police captain would own the brothel he pretended to raid, the politician would open his headquarters
in his saloon. "Hinkydink" or "Bathhouse John," or others of that ilk, were proprietors of
the most notorious dives in Chicago, and also the "gray wolves" of the city council, who gave
away the streets of the city to the businessmen; and those who patronized their places were
the gamblers and prize fighters who set the law at defiance, and the burglars and holdup men
who kept the whole city in terror. On election day all these powers of vice and crime were
one power; they could tell within one per cent what the vote of their district would be, and
they could change it at an hour's notice.

A month ago Jurgis had all but perished of starvation upon the streets; and now suddenly, as
by the gift of a magic key, he had entered into a world where money and all the good things
of life came freely. He was introduced by his friend to an Irishman named "Buck" Halloran,
who was a political "worker" and on the inside of things. This man talked with Jurgis for a
while, and then told him that he had a little plan by which a man who looked like a workingman
might make some easy money; but it was a private affair, and had to be kept quiet. Jurgis expressed
himself as agreeable, and the other took him that afternoon (it was Saturday) to a place where
city laborers were being paid off. The paymaster sat in a little booth, with a pile of envelopes
before him, and two policemen standing by. Jurgis went, according to directions, and gave the
name of "Michael O'Flaherty," and received an envelope, which he took around the corner and
delivered to Halloran, who was waiting for him in a saloon. Then he went again; and gave the
name of "Johann Schmidt," and a third time, and give the name of "Serge Reminitsky." Halloran
had quite a list of imaginary workingmen, and Jurgis got an envelope for each one. For this
work he received five dollars, and was told that he might have it every week, so long as he
kept quiet. As Jurgis was excellent at keeping quiet, he soon won the trust of "Buck" Halloran,
and was introduced to others as a man who could be depended upon.

This acquaintance was useful to him in another way, also before long Jurgis made his discovery
of the meaning of "pull," and just why his boss, Connor, and also the pugilist bartender, had
been able to send him to jail. One night there was given a ball, the "benefit" of "One-eyed
Larry," a lame man who played the violin in one of the big "high-class" houses of prostitution
on Clark Street, and was a wag and a popular character on the "Levee." This ball was held in
a big dance hall, and was one of the occasions when the city's powers of debauchery gave themselves
up to madness. Jurgis attended and got half insane with drink, and began quarreling over a
girl; his arm was pretty strong by then, and he set to work to clean out the place, and ended
in a cell in the police station. The police station being crowded to the doors, and stinking
with "bums," Jurgis did not relish staying there to sleep off his liquor, and sent for Halloran,
who called up the district leader and had Jurgis bailed out by telephone at four o'clock in
the morning. When he was arraigned that same morning, the district leader had already seen
the clerk of the court and explained that Jurgis Rudkus was a decent fellow, who had been indiscreet;
and so Jurgis was fined ten dollars and the fine was "suspended"--which meant that he did not
have to pay for it, and never would have to pay it, unless somebody chose to bring it up against
him in the future.

Among the people Jurgis lived with now money was valued according to an entirely different
standard from that of the people of Packingtown; yet, strange as it may seem, he did a great
deal less drinking than he had as a workingman. He had not the same provocations of exhaustion
and hopelessness; he had now something to work for, to struggle for. He soon found that if
he kept his wits about him, he would come upon new opportunities; and being naturally an active
man, he not only kept sober himself, but helped to steady his friend, who was a good deal fonder
of both wine and women than he.

One thing led to another. In the saloon where Jurgis met "Buck" Halloran he was sitting late
one night with Duane, when a "country customer" (a buyer for an out-of-town merchant) came
in, a little more than half "piped." There was no one else in the place but the bartender,
and as the man went out again Jurgis and Duane followed him; he went round the corner, and
in a dark place made by a combination of the elevated railroad and an unrented building, Jurgis
leaped forward and shoved a revolver under his nose, while Duane, with his hat pulled over
his eyes, went through the man's pockets with lightning fingers. They got his watch and his
"wad," and were round the corner again and into the saloon before he could shout more than
once. The bartender, to whom they had tipped the wink, had the cellar door open for them, and
they vanished, making their way by a secret entrance to a brothel next door. From the roof
of this there was access to three similar places beyond. By means of these passages the customers
of any one place could be gotten out of the way, in case a falling out with the police chanced
to lead to a raid; and also it was necessary to have a way of getting a girl out of reach in
case of an emergency. Thousands of them came to Chicago answering advertisements for "servants"
and "factory hands," and found themselves trapped by fake employment agencies, and locked up
in a bawdyhouse. It was generally enough to take all their clothes away from them; but sometimes
they would have to be "doped" and kept prisoners for weeks; and meantime their parents might
be telegraphing the police, and even coming on to see why nothing was done. Occasionally there
was no way of satisfying them but to let them search the place to which the girl had been traced.

For his help in this little job, the bartender received twenty out of the hundred and thirty
odd dollars that the pair secured; and naturally this put them on friendly terms with him,
and a few days later he introduced them to a little "sheeny" named Goldberger, one of the "runners"
of the "sporting house" where they had been hidden. After a few drinks Goldberger began, with
some hesitation, to narrate how he had had a quarrel over his best girl with a professional
"cardsharp," who had hit him in the jaw. The fellow was a stranger in Chicago, and if he was
found some night with his head cracked there would be no one to care very much. Jurgis, who
by this time would cheerfully have cracked the heads of all the gamblers in Chicago, inquired
what would be coming to him; at which the Jew became still more confidential, and said that
he had some tips on the New Orleans races, which he got direct from the police captain of the
district, whom he had got out of a bad scrape, and who "stood in" with a big syndicate of horse
owners. Duane took all this in at once, but Jurgis had to have the whole race-track situation
explained to him before he realized the importance of such an opportunity.

There was the gigantic Racing Trust. It owned the legislatures in every state in which it did
business; it even owned some of the big newspapers, and made public opinion--there was no power
in the land that could oppose it unless, perhaps, it were the Poolroom Trust. It built magnificent
racing parks all over the country, and by means of enormous purses it lured the people to come,
and then it organized a gigantic shell game, whereby it plundered them of hundreds of millions
of dollars every year. Horse racing had once been a sport, but nowadays it was a business;
a horse could be "doped" and doctored, undertrained or overtrained; it could be made to fall
at any moment--or its gait could be broken by lashing it with the whip, which all the spectators
would take to be a desperate effort to keep it in the lead. There were scores of such tricks;
and sometimes it was the owners who played them and made fortunes, sometimes it was the jockeys
and trainers, sometimes it was outsiders, who bribed them--but most of the time it was the
chiefs of the trust. Now for instance, they were having winter racing in New Orleans and a
syndicate was laying out each day's program in advance, and its agents in all the Northern
cities were "milking" the poolrooms. The word came by long-distance telephone in a cipher code,
just a little while before each race; and any man who could get the secret had as good as a
fortune. If Jurgis did not believe it, he could try it, said the little Jew--let them meet
at a certain house on the morrow and make a test. Jurgis was willing, and so was Duane, and
so they went to one of the high-class poolrooms where brokers and merchants gambled (with society
women in a private room), and they put up ten dollars each upon a horse called "Black Beldame,"
a six to one shot, and won. For a secret like that they would have done a good many sluggings--but
the next day Goldberger informed them that the offending gambler had got wind of what was coming
to him, and had skipped the town.

There were ups and downs at the business; but there was always a living, inside of a jail,
if not out of it. Early in April the city elections were due, and that meant prosperity for
all the powers of graft. Jurgis, hanging round in dives and gambling houses and brothels, met
with the heelers of both parties, and from their conversation he came to understand all the
ins and outs of the game, and to hear of a number of ways in which he could make himself useful
about election time. "Buck" Halloran was a "Democrat," and so Jurgis became a Democrat also;
but he was not a bitter one--the Republicans were good fellows, too, and were to have a pile
of money in this next campaign. At the last election the Republicans had paid four dollars
a vote to the Democrats' three; and "Buck" Halloran sat one night playing cards with Jurgis
and another man, who told how Halloran had been charged with the job voting a "bunch" of thirty-seven
newly landed Italians, and how he, the narrator, had met the Republican worker who was after
the very same gang, and how the three had effected a bargain, whereby the Italians were to
vote half and half, for a glass of beer apiece, while the balance of the fund went to the conspirators!

Not long after this, Jurgis, wearying of the risks and vicissitudes of miscellaneous crime,
was moved to give up the career for that of a politician. Just at this time there was a tremendous
uproar being raised concerning the alliance between the criminals and the police. For the criminal
graft was one in which the businessmen had no direct part--it was what is called a "side line,"
carried by the police. "Wide open" gambling and debauchery made the city pleasing to "trade,"
but burglaries and holdups did not. One night it chanced that while Jack Duane was drilling
a safe in a clothing store he was caught red-handed by the night watchman, and turned over
to a policeman, who chanced to know him well, and who took the responsibility of letting him
make his escape. Such a howl from the newspapers followed this that Duane was slated for sacrifice,
and barely got out of town in time. And just at that juncture it happened that Jurgis was introduced
to a man named Harper whom he recognized as the night watchman at Brown's, who had been instrumental
in making him an American citizen, the first year of his arrival at the yards. The other was
interested in the coincidence, but did not remember Jurgis--he had handled too many "green
ones" in his time, he said. He sat in a dance hall with Jurgis and Halloran until one or two
in the morning, exchanging experiences. He had a long story to tell of his quarrel with the
superintendent of his department, and how he was now a plain workingman, and a good union man
as well. It was not until some months afterward that Jurgis understood that the quarrel with
the superintendent had been prearranged, and that Harper was in reality drawing a salary of
twenty dollars a week from the packers for an inside report of his union's secret proceedings.
The yards were seething with agitation just then, said the man, speaking as a unionist. The
people of Packingtown had borne about all that they would bear, and it looked as if a strike
might begin any week.

After this talk the man made inquiries concerning Jurgis, and a couple of days later he came
to him with an interesting proposition. He was not absolutely certain, he said, but he thought
that he could get him a regular salary if he would come to Packingtown and do as he was told,
and keep his mouth shut. Harper--"Bush" Harper, he was called--was a right-hand man of Mike
Scully, the Democratic boss of the stockyards; and in the coming election there was a peculiar
situation. There had come to Scully a proposition to nominate a certain rich brewer who lived
upon a swell boulevard that skirted the district, and who coveted the big badge and the "honorable"
of an alderman. The brewer was a Jew, and had no brains, but he was harmless, and would put
up a rare campaign fund. Scully had accepted the offer, and then gone to the Republicans with
a proposition. He was not sure that he could manage the "sheeny," and he did not mean to take
any chances with his district; let the Republicans nominate a certain obscure but amiable friend
of Scully's, who was now setting tenpins in the cellar of an Ashland Avenue saloon, and he,
Scully, would elect him with the "sheeny's" money, and the Republicans might have the glory,
which was more than they would get otherwise. In return for this the Republicans would agree
to put up no candidate the following year, when Scully himself came up for reelection as the
other alderman from the ward. To this the Republicans had assented at once; but the hell of
it was--so Harper explained--that the Republicans were all of them fools--a man had to be a
fool to be a Republican in the stockyards, where Scully was king. And they didn't know how
to work, and of course it would not do for the Democratic workers, the noble redskins of the
War Whoop League, to support the Republican openly. The difficulty would not have been so great
except for another fact--there had been a curious development in stockyards politics in the
last year or two, a new party having leaped into being. They were the Socialists; and it was
a devil of a mess, said "Bush" Harper. The one image which the word "Socialist" brought to
Jurgis was of poor little Tamoszius Kuszleika, who had called himself one, and would go out
with a couple of other men and a soap-box, and shout himself hoarse on a street corner Saturday
nights. Tamoszius had tried to explain to Jurgis what it was all about, but Jurgis, who was
not of an imaginative turn, had never quire got it straight; at present he was content with
his companion's explanation that the Socialists were the enemies of American institutions--could
not be bought, and would not combine or make any sort of a "dicker." Mike Scully was very much
worried over the opportunity which his last deal gave to them--the stockyards Democrats were
furious at the idea of a rich capitalist for their candidate, and while they were changing
they might possibly conclude that a Socialist firebrand was preferable to a Republican bum.
And so right here was a chance for Jurgis to make himself a place in the world, explained "Bush"
Harper; he had been a union man, and he was known in the yards as a workingman; he must have
hundreds of acquaintances, and as he had never talked politics with them he might come out
as a Republican now without exciting the least suspicion. There were barrels of money for the
use of those who could deliver the goods; and Jurgis might count upon Mike Scully, who had
never yet gone back on a friend. Just what could he do? Jurgis asked, in some perplexity, and
the other explained in detail. To begin with, he would have to go to the yards and work, and
he mightn't relish that; but he would have what he earned, as well as the rest that came to
him. He would get active in the union again, and perhaps try to get an office, as he, Harper,
had; he would tell all his friends the good points of Doyle, the Republican nominee, and the
bad ones of the "sheeny"; and then Scully would furnish a meeting place, and he would start
the "Young Men's Republican Association," or something of that sort, and have the rich brewer's
best beer by the hogshead, and fireworks and speeches, just like the War Whoop League. Surely
Jurgis must know hundreds of men who would like that sort of fun; and there would be the regular
Republican leaders and workers to help him out, and they would deliver a big enough majority
on election day.

When he had heard all this explanation to the end, Jurgis demanded: "But how can I get a job
in Packingtown? I'm blacklisted."

At which "Bush" Harper laughed. "I'll attend to that all right," he said.

And the other replied, "It's a go, then; I'm your man." So Jurgis went out to the stockyards
again, and was introduced to the political lord of the district, the boss of Chicago's mayor.
It was Scully who owned the brickyards and the dump and the ice pond--though Jurgis did not
know it. It was Scully who was to blame for the unpaved street in which Jurgis's child had
been drowned; it was Scully who had put into office the magistrate who had first sent Jurgis
to jail; it was Scully who was principal stockholder in the company which had sold him the
ramshackle tenement, and then robbed him of it. But Jurgis knew none of these things--any more
than he knew that Scully was but a tool and puppet of the packers. To him Scully was a mighty
power, the "biggest" man he had ever met.

He was a little, dried-up Irishman, whose hands shook. He had a brief talk with his visitor,
watching him with his ratlike eyes, and making up his mind about him; and then he gave him
a note to Mr. Harmon, one of the head managers of Durham's--

"The bearer, Jurgis Rudkus, is a particular friend of mine, and I would like you to find him
a good place, for important reasons. He was once indiscreet, but you will perhaps be so good
as to overlook that."

Mr. Harmon looked up inquiringly when he read this. "What does he mean by 'indiscreet'?" he asked.

"I was blacklisted, sir," said Jurgis.

At which the other frowned. "Blacklisted?" he said. "How do you mean?" And Jurgis turned red
with embarrassment.

He had forgotten that a blacklist did not exist. "I--that is--I had difficulty in getting a
place," he stammered.

"What was the matter?"

"I got into a quarrel with a foreman--not my own boss, sir--and struck him."

"I see," said the other, and meditated for a few moments. "What do you wish to do?" he asked.

"Anything, sir," said Jurgis--"only I had a broken arm this winter, and so I have to be careful."

"How would it suit you to be a night watchman?"

"That wouldn't do, sir. I have to be among the men at night."

"I see--politics. Well, would it suit you to trim hogs?"

"Yes, sir," said Jurgis.

And Mr. Harmon called a timekeeper and said, "Take this man to Pat Murphy and tell him to find
room for him somehow."

And so Jurgis marched into the hog-killing room, a place where, in the days gone by, he had
come begging for a job. Now he walked jauntily, and smiled to himself, seeing the frown that
came to the boss's face as the timekeeper said, "Mr. Harmon says to put this man on." It would
overcrowd his department and spoil the record he was trying to make--but he said not a word
except "All right."

And so Jurgis became a workingman once more; and straightway he sought out his old friends,
and joined the union, and began to "root" for "Scotty" Doyle. Doyle had done him a good turn
once, he explained, and was really a bully chap; Doyle was a workingman himself, and would
represent the workingmen--why did they want to vote for a millionaire "sheeny," and what the
hell had Mike Scully ever done for them that they should back his candidates all the time?
And meantime Scully had given Jurgis a note to the Republican leader of the ward, and he had
gone there and met the crowd he was to work with. Already they had hired a big hall, with some
of the brewer's money, and every night Jurgis brought in a dozen new members of the "Doyle
Republican Association." Pretty soon they had a grand opening night; and there was a brass
band, which marched through the streets, and fireworks and bombs and red lights in front of
the hall; and there was an enormous crowd, with two overflow meetings--so that the pale and
trembling candidate had to recite three times over the little speech which one of Scully's
henchmen had written, and which he had been a month learning by heart. Best of all, the famous
and eloquent Senator Spareshanks, presidential candidate, rode out in an automobile to discuss
the sacred privileges of American citizenship, and protection and prosperity for the American
workingman. His inspiriting address was quoted to the extent of half a column in all the morning
newspapers, which also said that it could be stated upon excellent authority that the unexpected
popularity developed by Doyle, the Republican candidate for alderman, was giving great anxiety
to Mr. Scully, the chairman of the Democratic City Committee.

The chairman was still more worried when the monster torchlight procession came off, with the
members of the Doyle Republican Association all in red capes and hats, and free beer for every
voter in the ward--the best beer ever given away in a political campaign, as the whole electorate
testified. During this parade, and at innumerable cart-tail meetings as well, Jurgis labored
tirelessly. He did not make any speeches--there were lawyers and other experts for that--but
he helped to manage things; distributing notices and posting placards and bringing out the
crowds; and when the show was on he attended to the fireworks and the beer. Thus in the course
of the campaign he handled many hundreds of dollars of the Hebrew brewer's money, administering
it with naive and touching fidelity. Toward the end, however, he learned that he was regarded
with hatred by the rest of the "boys," because he compelled them either to make a poorer showing
than he or to do without their share of the pie. After that Jurgis did his best to please them,
and to make up for the time he had lost before he discovered the extra bungholes of the campaign
barrel.

He pleased Mike Scully, also. On election morning he was out at four o'clock, "getting out
the vote"; he had a two-horse carriage to ride in, and he went from house to house for his
friends, and escorted them in triumph to the polls. He voted half a dozen times himself, and
voted some of his friends as often; he brought bunch after bunch of the newest foreigners--Lithuanians,
Poles, Bohemians, Slovaks--and when he had put them through the mill he turned them over to
another man to take to the next polling place. When Jurgis first set out, the captain of the
precinct gave him a hundred dollars, and three times in the course of the day he came for another
hundred, and not more than twenty-five out of each lot got stuck in his own pocket. The balance
all went for actual votes, and on a day of Democratic landslides they elected "Scotty" Doyle,
the ex-tenpin setter, by nearly a thousand plurality--and beginning at five o'clock in the
afternoon, and ending at three the next morning, Jurgis treated himself to a most unholy and
horrible "jag." Nearly every one else in Packingtown did the same, however, for there was universal
exultation over this triumph of popular government, this crushing defeat of an arrogant plutocrat
by the power of the common people.

Chapter 26

After the elections Jurgis stayed on in Packingtown and kept his job. The agitation to break
up the police protection of criminals was continuing, and it seemed to him best to "lay low"
for the present. He had nearly three hundred dollars in the bank, and might have considered
himself entitled to a vacation; but he had an easy job, and force of habit kept him at it.
Besides, Mike Scully, whom he consulted, advised him that something might "turn up" before long.

Jurgis got himself a place in a boardinghouse with some congenial friends. He had already inquired
of Aniele, and learned that Elzbieta and her family had gone downtown, and so he gave no further
thought to them. He went with a new set, now, young unmarried fellows who were "sporty." Jurgis
had long ago cast off his fertilizer clothing, and since going into politics he had donned
a linen collar and a greasy red necktie. He had some reason for thinking of his dress, for
he was making about eleven dollars a week, and two-thirds of it he might spend upon his pleasures
without ever touching his savings.

Sometimes he would ride down-town with a party of friends to the cheap theaters and the music
halls and other haunts with which they were familiar. Many of the saloons in Packingtown had
pool tables, and some of them bowling alleys, by means of which he could spend his evenings
in petty gambling. Also, there were cards and dice. One time Jurgis got into a game on a Saturday
night and won prodigiously, and because he was a man of spirit he stayed in with the rest and
the game continued until late Sunday afternoon, and by that time he was "out" over twenty dollars.
On Saturday nights, also, a number of balls were generally given in Packingtown; each man would
bring his "girl" with him, paying half a dollar for a ticket, and several dollars additional
for drinks in the course of the festivities, which continued until three or four o'clock in
the morning, unless broken up by fighting. During all this time the same man and woman would
dance together, half-stupefied with sensuality and drink.

Before long Jurgis discovered what Scully had meant by something "turning up." In May the agreement
between the packers and the unions expired, and a new agreement had to be signed. Negotiations
were going on, and the yards were full of talk of a strike. The old scale had dealt with the
wages of the skilled men only; and of the members of the Meat Workers' Union about two-thirds
were unskilled men. In Chicago these latter were receiving, for the most part, eighteen and
a half cents an hour, and the unions wished to make this the general wage for the next year.
It was not nearly so large a wage as it seemed--in the course of the negotiations the union
officers examined time checks to the amount of ten thousand dollars, and they found that the
highest wages paid had been fourteen dollars a week, and the lowest two dollars and five cents,
and the average of the whole, six dollars and sixty-five cents. And six dollars and sixty-five
cents was hardly too much for a man to keep a family on, considering the fact that the price
of dressed meat had increased nearly fifty per cent in the last five years, while the price
of "beef on the hoof" had decreased as much, it would have seemed that the packers ought to
be able to pay it; but the packers were unwilling to pay it--they rejected the union demand,
and to show what their purpose was, a week or two after the agreement expired they put down
the wages of about a thousand men to sixteen and a half cents, and it was said that old man
Jones had vowed he would put them to fifteen before he got through. There were a million and
a half of men in the country looking for work, a hundred thousand of them right in Chicago;
and were the packers to let the union stewards march into their places and bind them to a contract
that would lose them several thousand dollars a day for a year? Not much!

All this was in June; and before long the question was submitted to a referendum in the unions,
and the decision was for a strike. It was the same in all the packing house cities; and suddenly
the newspapers and public woke up to face the gruesome spectacle of a meat famine. All sorts
of pleas for a reconsideration were made, but the packers were obdurate; and all the while
they were reducing wages, and heading off shipments of cattle, and rushing in wagonloads of
mattresses and cots. So the men boiled over, and one night telegrams went out from the union
headquarters to all the big packing centers--to St. Paul, South Omaha, Sioux City, St. Joseph,
Kansas City, East St. Louis, and New York--and the next day at noon between fifty and sixty
thousand men drew off their working clothes and marched out of the factories, and the great
"Beef Strike" was on.

Jurgis went to his dinner, and afterward he walked over to see Mike Scully, who lived in a
fine house, upon a street which had been decently paved and lighted for his especial benefit.
Scully had gone into semiretirement, and looked nervous and worried. "What do you want?" he
demanded, when he saw Jurgis.

"I came to see if maybe you could get me a place during the strike," the other replied.

And Scully knit his brows and eyed him narrowly. In that morning's papers Jurgis had read a
fierce denunciation of the packers by Scully, who had declared that if they did not treat their
people better the city authorities would end the matter by tearing down their plants. Now,
therefore, Jurgis was not a little taken aback when the other demanded suddenly, "See here,
Rudkus, why don't you stick by your job?"

Jurgis started. "Work as a scab?" he cried.

"Why not?" demanded Scully. "What's that to you?"

"But--but--" stammered Jurgis. He had somehow taken it for granted that he should go out with
his union. "The packers need good men, and need them bad," continued the other, "and they'll
treat a man right that stands by them. Why don't you take your chance and fix yourself?"

"But," said Jurgis, "how could I ever be of any use to you--in politics?"

"You couldn't be it anyhow," said Scully, abruptly.

"Why not?" asked Jurgis.

"Hell, man!" cried the other. "Don't you know you're a Republican? And do you think I'm always
going to elect Republicans? My brewer has found out already how we served him, and there is
the deuce to pay."

Jurgis looked dumfounded. He had never thought of that aspect of it before. "I could be a Democrat,"
he said.

"Yes," responded the other, "but not right away; a man can't change his politics every day.
And besides, I don't need you--there'd be nothing for you to do. And it's a long time to election
day, anyhow; and what are you going to do meantime?"

"I thought I could count on you," began Jurgis.

"Yes," responded Scully, "so you could--I never yet went back on a friend. But is it fair to
leave the job I got you and come to me for another? I have had a hundred fellows after me today,
and what can I do? I've put seventeen men on the city payroll to clean streets this one week,
and do you think I can keep that up forever? It wouldn't do for me to tell other men what I
tell you, but you've been on the inside, and you ought to have sense enough to see for yourself.
What have you to gain by a strike?"

"I hadn't thought," said Jurgis.

"Exactly," said Scully, "but you'd better. Take my word for it, the strike will be over in
a few days, and the men will be beaten; and meantime what you can get out of it will belong
to you. Do you see?"

And Jurgis saw. He went back to the yards, and into the workroom. The men had left a long line
of hogs in various stages of preparation, and the foreman was directing the feeble efforts
of a score or two of clerks and stenographers and office boys to finish up the job and get
them into the chilling rooms. Jurgis went straight up to him and announced, "I have come back
to work, Mr. Murphy."

The boss's face lighted up. "Good man!" he cried. "Come ahead!"

"Just a moment," said Jurgis, checking his enthusiasm. "I think I ought to get a little more
wages."

"Yes," replied the other, "of course. What do you want?"

Jurgis had debated on the way. His nerve almost failed him now, but he clenched his hands.
"I think I ought to have' three dollars a day," he said.

"All right," said the other, promptly; and before the day was out our friend discovered that
the clerks and stenographers and office boys were getting five dollars a day, and then he could
have kicked himself!

So Jurgis became one of the new "American heroes," a man whose virtues merited comparison with
those of the martyrs of Lexington and Valley Forge. The resemblance was not complete, of course,
for Jurgis was generously paid and comfortably clad, and was provided with a spring cot and
a mattress and three substantial meals a day; also he was perfectly at ease, and safe from
all peril of life and limb, save only in the case that a desire for beer should lead him to
venture outside of the stockyards gates. And even in the exercise of this privilege he was
not left unprotected; a good part of the inadequate police force of Chicago was suddenly diverted
from its work of hunting criminals, and rushed out to serve him. The police, and the strikers
also, were determined that there should be no violence; but there was another party interested
which was minded to the contrary--and that was the press. On the first day of his life as a
strikebreaker Jurgis quit work early, and in a spirit of bravado he challenged three men of
his acquaintance to go outside and get a drink. They accepted, and went through the big Halsted
Street gate, where several policemen were watching, and also some union pickets, scanning sharply
those who passed in and out. Jurgis and his companions went south on Halsted Street; past the
hotel, and then suddenly half a dozen men started across the street toward them and proceeded
to argue with them concerning the error of their ways. As the arguments were not taken in the
proper spirit, they went on to threats; and suddenly one of them jerked off the hat of one
of the four and flung it over the fence. The man started after it, and then, as a cry of "Scab!"
was raised and a dozen people came running out of saloons and doorways, a second man's heart
failed him and he followed. Jurgis and the fourth stayed long enough to give themselves the
satisfaction of a quick exchange of blows, and then they, too, took to their heels and fled
back of the hotel and into the yards again. Meantime, of course, policemen were coming on a
run, and as a crowd gathered other police got excited and sent in a riot call. Jurgis knew
nothing of this, but went back to "Packers' Avenue," and in front of the "Central Time Station"
he saw one of his companions, breathless and wild with excitement, narrating to an ever growing
throng how the four had been attacked and surrounded by a howling mob, and had been nearly
torn to pieces. While he stood listening, smiling cynically, several dapper young men stood
by with notebooks in their hands, and it was not more than two hours later that Jurgis saw
newsboys running about with armfuls of newspapers, printed in red and black letters six inches
high:

VIOLENCE IN THE YARDS! STRIKEBREAKERS SURROUNDED BY FRENZIED MOB!

If he had been able to buy all of the newspapers of the United States the next morning, he
might have discovered that his beer-hunting exploit was being perused by some two score millions
of people, and had served as a text for editorials in half the staid and solemn businessmen's
newspapers in the land.

Jurgis was to see more of this as time passed. For the present, his work being over, he was
free to ride into the city, by a railroad direct from the yards, or else to spend the night
in a room where cots had been laid in rows. He chose the latter, but to his regret, for all
night long gangs of strikebreakers kept arriving. As very few of the better class of workingmen
could be got for such work, these specimens of the new American hero contained an assortment
of the criminals and thugs of the city, besides Negroes and the lowest foreigners-Greeks, Roumanians,
Sicilians, and Slovaks. They had been attracted more by the prospect of disorder than, by the
big wages; and they made the night hideous with singing and carousing, and only went to sleep
when the time came for them to get up to work.

In the morning before Jurgis had finished his breakfast, "Pat" Murphy ordered him to one of
the superintendents, who questioned him as to his experience in the work of the killing room.
His heart began to thump with excitement, for he divined instantly that his hour had come--that
he was to be a boss!

Some of the foremen were union members, and many who were not had gone out with the men. It
was in the killing department that the packers had been left most in the lurch, and precisely
here that they could least afford it; the smoking and canning and salting of meat might wait,
and all the by-products might be wasted--but fresh meats must be had, or the restaurants and
hotels and brownstone houses would feel the pinch, and then "public opinion" would take a startling
turn.

An opportunity such as this would not come twice to a man; and Jurgis seized it. Yes, he knew
the work, the whole of it, and he could teach it to others. But if he took the job and gave
satisfaction he would expect to keep it--they would not turn him off at the end of the strike?
To which the superintendent replied that he might safely trust Durham's for that--they proposed
to teach these unions a lesson, and most of all those foremen who had gone back on them. Jurgis
would receive five dollars a day during the strike, and twenty-five a week after it was settled.

So our friend got a pair of "slaughter pen" boots and "jeans," and flung himself at his task.
It was a weird sight, there on the killing beds--a throng of stupid black Negroes, and foreigners
who could not understand a word that was said to them, mixed with pale-faced, hollow-chested
bookkeepers and clerks, half-fainting for the tropical heat and the sickening stench of fresh
blood--and all struggling to dress a dozen or two cattle in the same place where, twenty-four
hours ago, the old killing gang had been speeding, with their marvelous precision, turning
out four hundred carcasses every hour!

The Negroes and the "toughs" from the Levee did not want to work, and every few minutes some
of them would feel obliged to retire and recuperate. In a couple of days Durham and Company
had electric fans up to cool off the rooms for them, and even couches for them to rest on;
and meantime they could go out and find a shady corner and take a "snooze," and as there was
no place for any one in particular, and no system, it might be hours before their boss discovered
them. As for the poor office employees, they did their best, moved to it by terror; thirty
of them had been "fired" in a bunch that first morning for refusing to serve, besides a number
of women clerks and typewriters who had declined to act as waitresses.

It was such a force as this that Jurgis had to organize. He did his best, flying here and there,
placing them in rows and showing them the tricks; he had never given an order in his life before,
but he had taken enough of them to know, and he soon fell into the spirit of it, and roared
and stormed like any old stager. He had not the most tractable pupils, however. "See hyar,
boss," a big black "buck" would begin, "ef you doan' like de way Ah does dis job, you kin get
somebody else to do it." Then a crowd would gather and listen, muttering threats. After the
first meal nearly all the steel knives had been missing, and now every Negro had one, ground
to a fine point, hidden in his boots.

There was no bringing order out of such a chaos, Jurgis soon discovered; and he fell in with
the spirit of the thing--there was no reason why he should wear himself out with shouting.
If hides and guts were slashed and rendered useless there was no way of tracing it to any one;
and if a man lay off and forgot to come back there was nothing to be gained by seeking him,
for all the rest would quit in the meantime. Everything went, during the strike, and the packers
paid. Before long Jurgis found that the custom of resting had suggested to some alert minds
the possibility of registering at more than one place and earning more than one five dollars
a day. When he caught a man at this he "fired" him, but it chanced to be in a quiet corner,
and the man tendered him a ten-dollar bill and a wink, and he took them. Of course, before
long this custom spread, and Jurgis was soon making quite a good income from it.

In the face of handicaps such as these the packers counted themselves lucky if they could kill
off the cattle that had been crippled in transit and the hogs that had developed disease. Frequently,
in the course of a two or three days' trip, in hot weather and without water, some hog would
develop cholera, and die; and the rest would attack him before he had ceased kicking, and when
the car was opened there would be nothing of him left but the bones. If all the hogs in this
carload were not killed at once, they would soon be down with the dread disease, and there
would be nothing to do but make them into lard. It was the same with cattle that were gored
and dying, or were limping with broken bones stuck through their flesh--they must be killed,
even if brokers and buyers and superintendents had to take off their coats and help drive and
cut and skin them. And meantime, agents of the packers were gathering gangs of Negroes in the
country districts of the far South, promising them five dollars a day and board, and being
careful not to mention there was a strike; already carloads of them were on the way, with special
rates from the railroads, and all traffic ordered out of the way. Many towns and cities were
taking advantage of the chance to clear out their jails and workhouses--in Detroit the magistrates
would release every man who agreed to leave town within twenty-four hours, and agents of the
packers were in the courtrooms to ship them right. And meantime trainloads of supplies were
coming in for their accommodation, including beer and whisky, so that they might not be tempted
to go outside. They hired thirty young girls in Cincinnati to "pack fruit," and when they arrived
put them at work canning corned beef, and put cots for them to sleep in a public hallway, through
which the men passed. As the gangs came in day and night, under the escort of squads of police,
they stowed away in unused workrooms and storerooms, and in the car sheds, crowded so closely
together that the cots touched. In some places they would use the same room for eating and
sleeping, and at night the men would put their cots upon the tables, to keep away from the
swarms of rats.

But with all their best efforts, the packers were demoralized. Ninety per cent of the men had
walked out; and they faced the task of completely remaking their labor force--and with the
price of meat up thirty per cent, and the public clamoring for a settlement. They made an offer
to submit the whole question at issue to arbitration; and at the end of ten days the unions
accepted it, and the strike was called off. It was agreed that all the men were to be re-employed
within forty-five days, and that there was to be "no discrimination against union men."

This was an anxious time for Jurgis. If the men were taken back "without discrimination," he
would lose his present place. He sought out the superintendent, who smiled grimly and bade
him "wait and see." Durham's strikebreakers were few of them leaving.

Whether or not the "settlement" was simply a trick of the packers to gain time, or whether
they really expected to break the strike and cripple the unions by the plan, cannot be said;
but that night there went out from the office of Durham and Company a telegram to all the big
packing centers, "Employ no union leaders." And in the morning, when the twenty thousand men
thronged into the yards, with their dinner pails and working clothes, Jurgis stood near the
door of the hog-trimming room, where he had worked before the strike, and saw a throng of eager
men, with a score or two of policemen watching them; and he saw a superintendent come out and
walk down the line, and pick out man after man that pleased him; and one after another came,
and there were some men up near the head of the line who were never picked--they being the
union stewards and delegates, and the men Jurgis had heard making speeches at the meetings.
Each time, of course, there were louder murmurings and angrier looks. Over where the cattle
butchers were waiting, Jurgis heard shouts and saw a crowd, and he hurried there. One big butcher,
who was president of the Packing Trades Council, had been passed over five times, and the men
were wild with rage; they had appointed a committee of three to go in and see the superintendent,
and the committee had made three attempts, and each time the police had clubbed them back from
the door. Then there were yells and hoots, continuing until at last the superintendent came
to the door. "We all go back or none of us do!" cried a hundred voices. And the other shook
his fist at them, and shouted, "You went out of here like cattle, and like cattle you'll come
back!"

Then suddenly the big butcher president leaped upon a pile of stones and yelled: "It's off,
boys. We'll all of us quit again!" And so the cattle butchers declared a new strike on the
spot; and gathering their members from the other plants, where the same trick had been played,
they marched down Packers' Avenue, which was thronged with a dense mass of workers, cheering
wildly. Men who had already got to work on the killing beds dropped their tools and joined
them; some galloped here and there on horseback, shouting the tidings, and within half an hour
the whole of Packingtown was on strike again, and beside itself with fury.

There was quite a different tone in Packingtown after this--the place was a seething caldron
of passion, and the "scab" who ventured into it fared badly. There were one or two of these
incidents each day, the newspapers detailing them, and always blaming them upon the unions.
Yet ten years before, when there were no unions in Packingtown, there was a strike, and national
troops had to be called, and there were pitched battles fought at night, by the light of blazing
freight trains. Packingtown was always a center of violence; in "Whisky Point," where there
were a hundred saloons and one glue factory, there was always fighting, and always more of
it in hot weather. Any one who had taken the trouble to consult the station house blotter would
have found that there was less violence that summer than ever before--and this while twenty
thousand men were out of work, and with nothing to do all day but brood upon bitter wrongs.
There was no one to picture the battle the union leaders were fighting--to hold this huge army
in rank, to keep it from straggling and pillaging, to cheer and encourage and guide a hundred
thousand people, of a dozen different tongues, through six long weeks of hunger and disappointment
and despair.

Meantime the packers had set themselves definitely to the task of making a new labor force.
A thousand or two of strikebreakers were brought in every night, and distributed among the
various plants. Some of them were experienced workers,--butchers, salesmen, and managers from
the packers' branch stores, and a few union men who had deserted from other cities; but the
vast majority were "green" Negroes from the cotton districts of the far South, and they were
herded into the packing plants like sheep. There was a law forbidding the use of buildings
as lodginghouses unless they were licensed for the purpose, and provided with proper windows,
stairways, and fire escapes; but here, in a "paint room," reached only by an enclosed "chute,"
a room without a single window and only one door, a hundred men were crowded upon mattresses
on the floor. Up on the third story of the "hog house" of Jones's was a storeroom, without
a window, into which they crowded seven hundred men, sleeping upon the bare springs of cots,
and with a second shift to use them by day. And when the clamor of the public led to an investigation
into these conditions, and the mayor of the city was forced to order the enforcement of the
law, the packers got a judge to issue an injunction forbidding him to do it!

Just at this time the mayor was boasting that he had put an end to gambling and prize fighting
in the city; but here a swarm of professional gamblers had leagued themselves with the police
to fleece the strikebreakers; and any night, in the big open space in front of Brown's, one
might see brawny Negroes stripped to the waist and pounding each other for money, while a howling
throng of three or four thousand surged about, men and women, young white girls from the country
rubbing elbows with big buck Negroes with daggers in their boots, while rows of woolly heads
peered down from every window of the surrounding factories. The ancestors of these black people
had been savages in Africa; and since then they had been chattel slaves, or had been held down
by a community ruled by the traditions of slavery. Now for the first time they were free--free
to gratify every passion, free to wreck themselves. They were wanted to break a strike, and
when it was broken they would be shipped away, and their present masters would never see them
again; and so whisky and women were brought in by the carload and sold to them, and hell was
let loose in the yards. Every night there were stabbings and shootings; it was said that the
packers had blank permits, which enabled them to ship dead bodies from the city without troubling
the authorities. They lodged men and women on the same floor; and with the night there began
a saturnalia of debauchery--scenes such as never before had been witnessed in America. And
as the women were the dregs from the brothels of Chicago, and the men were for the most part
ignorant country Negroes, the nameless diseases of vice were soon rife; and this where food
was being handled which was sent out to every corner of the civilized world.

The "Union Stockyards" were never a pleasant place; but now they were not only a collection
of slaughterhouses, but also the camping place of an army of fifteen or twenty thousand human
beasts. All day long the blazing midsummer sun beat down upon that square mile of abominations:
upon tens of thousands of cattle crowded into pens whose wooden floors stank and steamed contagion;
upon bare, blistering, cinder-strewn railroad tracks, and huge blocks of dingy meat factories,
whose labyrinthine passages defied a breath of fresh air to penetrate them; and there were
not merely rivers of hot blood, and car-loads of moist flesh, and rendering vats and soap caldrons,
glue factories and fertilizer tanks, that smelt like the craters of hell--there were also tons
of garbage festering in the sun, and the greasy laundry of the workers hung out to dry, and
dining rooms littered with food and black with flies, and toilet rooms that were open sewers.

And then at night, when this throng poured out into the streets to play--fighting, gambling,
drinking and carousing, cursing and screaming, laughing and singing, playing banjoes and dancing!
They were worked in the yards all the seven days of the week, and they had their prize fights
and crap games on Sunday nights as well; but then around the corner one might see a bonfire
blazing, and an old, gray-headed Negress, lean and witchlike, her hair flying wild and her
eyes blazing, yelling and chanting of the fires of perdition and the blood of the "Lamb," while
men and women lay down upon the ground and moaned and screamed in convulsions of terror and
remorse.

Such were the stockyards during the strike; while the unions watched in sullen despair, and
the country clamored like a greedy child for its food, and the packers went grimly on their
way. Each day they added new workers, and could be more stern with the old ones--could put
them on piecework, and dismiss them if they did not keep up the pace. Jurgis was now one of
their agents in this process; and he could feel the change day by day, like the slow starting
up of a huge machine. He had gotten used to being a master of men; and because of the stifling
heat and the stench, and the fact that he was a "scab" and knew it and despised himself. He
was drinking, and developing a villainous temper, and he stormed and cursed and raged at his
men, and drove them until they were ready to drop with exhaustion.

Then one day late in August, a superintendent ran into the place and shouted to Jurgis and
his gang to drop their work and come. They followed him outside, to where, in the midst of
a dense throng, they saw several two-horse trucks waiting, and three patrol-wagon loads of
police. Jurgis and his men sprang upon one of the trucks, and the driver yelled to the crowd,
and they went thundering away at a gallop. Some steers had just escaped from the yards, and
the strikers had got hold of them, and there would be the chance of a scrap!

They went out at the Ashland Avenue gate, and over in the direction of the "dump." There was
a yell as soon as they were sighted, men and women rushing out of houses and saloons as they
galloped by. There were eight or ten policemen on the truck, however, and there was no disturbance
until they came to a place where the street was blocked with a dense throng. Those on the flying
truck yelled a warning and the crowd scattered pell-mell, disclosing one of the steers lying
in its blood. There were a good many cattle butchers about just then, with nothing much to
do, and hungry children at home; and so some one had knocked out the steer--and as a first-class
man can kill and dress one in a couple of minutes, there were a good many steaks and roasts
already missing. This called for punishment, of course; and the police proceeded to administer
it by leaping from the truck and cracking at every head they saw. There were yells of rage
and pain, and the terrified people fled into houses and stores, or scattered helter-skelter
down the street. Jurgis and his gang joined in the sport, every man singling out his victim,
and striving to bring him to bay and punch him. If he fled into a house his pursuer would smash
in the flimsy door and follow him up the stairs, hitting every one who came within reach, and
finally dragging his squealing quarry from under a bed or a pile of old clothes in a closet.

Jurgis and two policemen chased some men into a bar-room. One of them took shelter behind the
bar, where a policeman cornered him and proceeded to whack him over the back and shoulders,
until he lay down and gave a chance at his head. The others leaped a fence in the rear, balking
the second policeman, who was fat; and as he came back, furious and cursing, a big Polish woman,
the owner of the saloon, rushed in screaming, and received a poke in the stomach that doubled
her up on the floor. Meantime Jurgis, who was of a practical temper, was helping himself at
the bar; and the first policeman, who had laid out his man, joined him, handing out several
more bottles, and filling his pockets besides, and then, as he started to leave, cleaning off
all the balance with a sweep of his club. The din of the glass crashing to the floor brought
the fat Polish woman to her feet again, but another policeman came up behind her and put his
knee into her back and his hands over her eyes--and then called to his companion, who went
back and broke open the cash drawer and filled his pockets with the contents. Then the three
went outside, and the man who was holding the woman gave her a shove and dashed out himself.
The gang having already got the carcass on to the truck, the party set out at a trot, followed
by screams and curses, and a shower of bricks and stones from unseen enemies. These bricks
and stones would figure in the accounts of the "riot" which would be sent out to a few thousand
newspapers within an hour or two; but the episode of the cash drawer would never be mentioned
again, save only in the heartbreaking legends of Packingtown.

It was late in the afternoon when they got back, and they dressed out the remainder of the
steer, and a couple of others that had been killed, and then knocked off for the day. Jurgis
went downtown to supper, with three friends who had been on the other trucks, and they exchanged
reminiscences on the way. Afterward they drifted into a roulette parlor, and Jurgis, who was
never lucky at gambling, dropped about fifteen dollars. To console himself he had to drink
a good deal, and he went back to Packingtown about two o'clock in the morning, very much the
worse for his excursion, and, it must be confessed, entirely deserving the calamity that was
in store for him.

As he was going to the place where he slept, he met a painted-cheeked woman in a greasy "kimono,"
and she put her arm about his waist to steady him; they turned into a dark room they were passing--but
scarcely had they taken two steps before suddenly a door swung open, and a man entered, carrying
a lantern. "Who's there?" he called sharply. And Jurgis started to mutter some reply; but at
the same instant the man raised his light, which flashed in his face, so that it was possible
to recognize him. Jurgis stood stricken dumb, and his heart gave a leap like a mad thing. The
man was Connor!

Connor, the boss of the loading gang! The man who had seduced his wife--who had sent him to
prison, and wrecked his home, ruined his life! He stood there, staring, with the light shining
full upon him.

Jurgis had often thought of Connor since coming back to Packingtown, but it had been as of
something far off, that no longer concerned him. Now, however, when he saw him, alive and in
the flesh, the same thing happened to him that had happened before--a flood of rage boiled
up in him, a blind frenzy seized him. And he flung himself at the man, and smote him between
the eyes--and then, as he fell, seized him by the throat and began to pound his head upon the
stones.

The woman began screaming, and people came rushing in. The lantern had been upset and extinguished,
and it was so dark they could not see a thing; but they could hear Jurgis panting, and hear
the thumping of his victim's skull, and they rushed there and tried to pull him off. Precisely
as before, Jurgis came away with a piece of his enemy's flesh between his teeth; and, as before,
he went on fighting with those who had interfered with him, until a policeman had come and
beaten him into insensibility.

And so Jurgis spent the balance of the night in the stockyards station house. This time, however,
he had money in his pocket, and when he came to his senses he could get something to drink,
and also a messenger to take word of his plight to "Bush" Harper. Harper did not appear, however,
until after the prisoner, feeling very weak and ill, had been hailed into court and remanded
at five hundred dollars' bail to await the result of his victim's injuries. Jurgis was wild
about this, because a different magistrate had chanced to be on the bench, and he had stated
that he had never been arrested before, and also that he had been attacked first--and if only
someone had been there to speak a good word for him, he could have been let off at once.

But Harper explained that he had been downtown, and had not got the message. "What's happened
to you?" he asked.

"I've been doing a fellow up," said Jurgis, "and I've got to get five hundred dollars' bail."

"I can arrange that all right," said the other--"though it may cost you a few dollars, of course.
But what was the trouble?"

"It was a man that did me a mean trick once," answered Jurgis.

"Who is he?"

"He's a foreman in Brown's or used to be. His name's Connor."

And the other gave a start. "Connor!" he cried. "Not Phil Connor!"

"Yes," said Jurgis, "that's the fellow. Why?"

"Good God!" exclaimed the other, "then you're in for it, old man! I can't help you!"

"Not help me! Why not?"

"Why, he's one of Scully's biggest men--he's a member of the War-Whoop League, and they talked
of sending him to the legislature! Phil Connor! Great heavens!"

Jurgis sat dumb with dismay.

"Why, he can send you to Joliet, if he wants to!" declared the other.

"Can't I have Scully get me off before he finds out about it?" asked Jurgis, at length.

"But Scully's out of town," the other answered. "I don't even know where he is--he's run away
to dodge the strike."

That was a pretty mess, indeed. Poor Jurgis sat half-dazed. His pull had run up against a bigger
pull, and he was down and out! "But what am I going to do?" he asked, weakly.

"How should I know?" said the other. "I shouldn't even dare to get bail for you--why, I might
ruin myself for life!"

Again there was silence. "Can't you do it for me," Jurgis asked, "and pretend that you didn't
know who I'd hit?"

"But what good would that do you when you came to stand trial?" asked Harper. Then he sat buried
in thought for a minute or two. "There's nothing--unless it's this," he said. "I could have
your bail reduced; and then if you had the money you could pay it and skip."

"How much will it be?" Jurgis asked, after he had had this explained more in detail.

"I don't know," said the other. "How much do you own?"

"I've got about three hundred dollars," was the answer.

"Well," was Harper's reply, "I'm not sure, but I'll try and get you off for that. I'll take
the risk for friendship's sake--for I'd hate to see you sent to state's prison for a year or two."

And so finally Jurgis ripped out his bankbook--which was sewed up in his trousers--and signed
an order, which "Bush" Harper wrote, for all the money to be paid out. Then the latter went
and got it, and hurried to the court, and explained to the magistrate that Jurgis was a decent
fellow and a friend of Scully's, who had been attacked by a strike-breaker. So the bail was
reduced to three hundred dollars, and Harper went on it himself; he did not tell this to Jurgis,
however--nor did he tell him that when the time for trial came it would be an easy matter for
him to avoid the forfeiting of the bail, and pocket the three hundred dollars as his reward
for the risk of offending Mike Scully! All that he told Jurgis was that he was now free, and
that the best thing he could do was to clear out as quickly as possible; and so Jurgis overwhelmed
with gratitude and relief, took the dollar and fourteen cents that was left him out of all
his bank account, and put it with the two dollars and quarter that was left from his last night's
celebration, and boarded a streetcar and got off at the other end of Chicago.

Chapter 27

Poor Jurgis was now an outcast and a tramp once more. He was crippled--he was as literally
crippled as any wild animal which has lost its claws, or been torn out of its shell. He had
been shorn, at one cut, of all those mysterious weapons whereby he had been able to make a
living easily and to escape the consequences of his actions. He could no longer command a job
when he wanted it; he could no longer steal with impunity--he must take his chances with the
common herd. Nay worse, he dared not mingle with the herd--he must hide himself, for he was
one marked out for destruction. His old companions would betray him, for the sake of the influence
they would gain thereby; and he would be made to suffer, not merely for the offense he had
committed, but for others which would be laid at his door, just as had been done for some poor
devil on the occasion of that assault upon the "country customer" by him and Duane.

And also he labored under another handicap now. He had acquired new standards of living, which
were not easily to be altered. When he had been out of work before, he had been content if
he could sleep in a doorway or under a truck out of the rain, and if he could get fifteen cents
a day for saloon lunches. But now he desired all sorts of other things, and suffered because
he had to do without them. He must have a drink now and then, a drink for its own sake, and
apart from the food that came with it. The craving for it was strong enough to master every
other consideration--he would have it, though it were his last nickel and he had to starve
the balance of the day in consequence.

Jurgis became once more a besieger of factory gates. But never since he had been in Chicago
had he stood less chance of getting a job than just then. For one thing, there was the economic
crisis, the million or two of men who had been out of work in the spring and summer, and were
not yet all back, by any means. And then there was the strike, with seventy thousand men and
women all over the country idle for a couple of months--twenty thousand in Chicago, and many
of them now seeking work throughout the city. It did not remedy matters that a few days later
the strike was given up and about half the strikers went back to work; for every one taken
on, there was a "scab" who gave up and fled. The ten or fifteen thousand "green" Negroes, foreigners,
and criminals were now being turned loose to shift for themselves. Everywhere Jurgis went he
kept meeting them, and he was in an agony of fear lest some one of them should know that he
was "wanted." He would have left Chicago, only by the time he had realized his danger he was
almost penniless; and it would be better to go to jail than to be caught out in the country
in the winter time.

At the end of about ten days Jurgis had only a few pennies left; and he had not yet found a
job--not even a day's work at anything, not a chance to carry a satchel. Once again, as when
he had come out of the hospital, he was bound hand and foot, and facing the grisly phantom
of starvation. Raw, naked terror possessed him, a maddening passion that would never leave
him, and that wore him down more quickly than the actual want of food. He was going to die
of hunger! The fiend reached out its scaly arms for him--it touched him, its breath came into
his face; and he would cry out for the awfulness of it, he would wake up in the night, shuddering,
and bathed in perspiration, and start up and flee. He would walk, begging for work, until he
was exhausted; he could not remain still--he would wander on, gaunt and haggard, gazing about
him with restless eyes. Everywhere he went, from one end of the vast city to the other, there
were hundreds of others like him; everywhere was the sight of plenty and the merciless hand
of authority waving them away. There is one kind of prison where the man is behind bars, and
everything that he desires is outside; and there is another kind where the things are behind
the bars, and the man is outside.

When he was down to his last quarter, Jurgis learned that before the bakeshops closed at night
they sold out what was left at half price, and after that he would go and get two loaves of
stale bread for a nickel, and break them up and stuff his pockets with them, munching a bit
from time to time. He would not spend a penny save for this; and, after two or three days more,
he even became sparing of the bread, and would stop and peer into the ash barrels as he walked
along the streets, and now and then rake out a bit of something, shake it free from dust, and
count himself just so many minutes further from the end.

So for several days he had been going about, ravenous all the time, and growing weaker and
weaker, and then one morning he had a hideous experience, that almost broke his heart. He was
passing down a street lined with warehouses, and a boss offered him a job, and then, after
he had started to work, turned him off because he was not strong enough. And he stood by and
saw another man put into his place, and then picked up his coat, and walked off, doing all
that he could to keep from breaking down and crying like a baby. He was lost! He was doomed!
There was no hope for him! But then, with a sudden rush, his fear gave place to rage. He fell
to cursing. He would come back there after dark, and he would show that scoundrel whether he
was good for anything or not!

He was still muttering this when suddenly, at the corner, he came upon a green-grocery, with
a tray full of cabbages in front of it. Jurgis, after one swift glance about him, stooped and
seized the biggest of them, and darted round the corner with it. There was a hue and cry, and
a score of men and boys started in chase of him; but he came to an alley, and then to another
branching off from it and leading him into another street, where he fell into a walk, and slipped
his cabbage under his coat and went off unsuspected in the crowd. When he had gotten a safe
distance away he sat down and devoured half the cabbage raw, stowing the balance away in his
pockets till the next day.

Just about this time one of the Chicago newspapers, which made much of the "common people,"
opened a "free-soup kitchen" for the benefit of the unemployed. Some people said that they
did this for the sake of the advertising it gave them, and some others said that their motive
was a fear lest all their readers should be starved off; but whatever the reason, the soup
was thick and hot, and there was a bowl for every man, all night long. When Jurgis heard of
this, from a fellow "hobo," he vowed that he would have half a dozen bowls before morning;
but, as it proved, he was lucky to get one, for there was a line of men two blocks long before
the stand, and there was just as long a line when the place was finally closed up.

This depot was within the danger line for Jurgis--in the "Levee" district, where he was known;
but he went there, all the same, for he was desperate, and beginning to think of even the Bridewell
as a place of refuge. So far the weather had been fair, and he had slept out every night in
a vacant lot; but now there fell suddenly a shadow of the advancing winter, a chill wind from
the north and a driving storm of rain. That day Jurgis bought two drinks for the sake of the
shelter, and at night he spent his last two pennies in a "stale-beer dive." This was a place
kept by a Negro, who went out and drew off the old dregs of beer that lay in barrels set outside
of the saloons; and after he had doctored it with chemicals to make it "fizz," he sold it for
two cents a can, the purchase of a can including the privilege of sleeping the night through
upon the floor, with a mass of degraded outcasts, men and women.

All these horrors afflicted Jurgis all the more cruelly, because he was always contrasting
them with the opportunities he had lost. For instance, just now it was election time again--within
five or six weeks the voters of the country would select a President; and he heard the wretches
with whom he associated discussing it, and saw the streets of the city decorated with placards
and banners--and what words could describe the pangs of grief and despair that shot through him?

For instance, there was a night during this cold spell. He had begged all day, for his very
life, and found not a soul to heed him, until toward evening he saw an old lady getting off
a streetcar and helped her down with her umbrellas and bundles and then told her his "hard-luck
story," and after answering all her suspicious questions satisfactorily, was taken to a restaurant
and saw a quarter paid down for a meal. And so he had soup and bread, and boiled beef and potatoes
and beans, and pie and coffee, and came out with his skin stuffed tight as a football. And
then, through the rain and the darkness, far down the street he saw red lights flaring and
heard the thumping of a bass drum; and his heart gave a leap, and he made for the place on
the run--knowing without the asking that it meant a political meeting.

The campaign had so far been characterized by what the newspapers termed "apathy." For some
reason the people refused to get excited over the struggle, and it was almost impossible to
get them to come to meetings, or to make any noise when they did come. Those which had been
held in Chicago so far had proven most dismal failures, and tonight, the speaker being no less
a personage than a candidate for the vice-presidency of the nation, the political managers
had been trembling with anxiety. But a merciful providence had sent this storm of cold rain--and
now all it was necessary to do was to set off a few fireworks, and thump awhile on a drum,
and all the homeless wretches from a mile around would pour in and fill the hall! And then
on the morrow the newspapers would have a chance to report the tremendous ovation, and to add
that it had been no "silk-stocking" audience, either, proving clearly that the high tariff
sentiments of the distinguished candidate were pleasing to the wage-earners of the nation.

So Jurgis found himself in a large hall, elaborately decorated with flags and bunting; and
after the chairman had made his little speech, and the orator of the evening rose up, amid
an uproar from the band--only fancy the emotions of Jurgis upon making the discovery that the
personage was none other than the famous and eloquent Senator Spareshanks, who had addressed
the "Doyle Republican Association" at the stockyards, and helped to elect Mike Scully's tenpin
setter to the Chicago Board of Aldermen!

In truth, the sight of the senator almost brought the tears into Jurgis's eyes. What agony
it was to him to look back upon those golden hours, when he, too, had a place beneath the shadow
of the plum tree! When he, too, had been of the elect, through whom the country is governed--when
he had had a bung in the campaign barrel for his own! And this was another election in which
the Republicans had all the money; and but for that one hideous accident he might have had
a share of it, instead of being where he was!

The eloquent senator was explaining the system of protection; an ingenious device whereby the
workingman permitted the manufacturer to charge him higher prices, in order that he might receive
higher wages; thus taking his money out of his pocket with one hand, and putting a part of
it back with the other. To the senator this unique arrangement had somehow become identified
with the higher verities of the universe. It was because of it that Columbia was the gem of
the ocean; and all her future triumphs, her power and good repute among the nations, depended
upon the zeal and fidelity with which each citizen held up the hands of those who were toiling
to maintain it. The name of this heroic company was "the Grand Old Party"--

And here the band began to play, and Jurgis sat up with a violent start. Singular as it may
seem, Jurgis was making a desperate effort to understand what the senator was saying--to comprehend
the extent of American prosperity, the enormous expansion of American commerce, and the Republic's
future in the Pacific and in South America, and wherever else the oppressed were groaning.
The reason for it was that he wanted to keep awake. He knew that if he allowed himself to fall
asleep he would begin to snore loudly; and so he must listen--he must be interested! But he
had eaten such a big dinner, and he was so exhausted, and the hall was so warm, and his seat
was so comfortable! The senator's gaunt form began to grow dim and hazy, to tower before him
and dance about, with figures of exports and imports. Once his neighbor gave him a savage poke
in the ribs, and he sat up with a start and tried to look innocent; but then he was at it again,
and men began to stare at him with annoyance, and to call out in vexation. Finally one of them
called a policeman, who came and grabbed Jurgis by the collar, and jerked him to his feet,
bewildered and terrified. Some of the audience turned to see the commotion, and Senator Spareshanks
faltered in his speech; but a voice shouted cheerily: "We're just firing a bum! Go ahead, old
sport!" And so the crowd roared, and the senator smiled genially, and went on; and in a few
seconds poor Jurgis found himself landed out in the rain, with a kick and a string of curses.

He got into the shelter of a doorway and took stock of himself. He was not hurt, and he was
not arrested--more than he had any right to expect. He swore at himself and his luck for a
while, and then turned his thoughts to practical matters. He had no money, and no place to
sleep; he must begin begging again.

He went out, hunching his shoulders together and shivering at the touch of the icy rain. Coming
down the street toward him was a lady, well dressed, and protected by an umbrella; and he turned
and walked beside her. "Please, ma'am," he began, "could you lend me the price of a night's
lodging? I'm a poor working-man--"

Then, suddenly, he stopped short. By the light of a street lamp he had caught sight of the
lady's face. He knew her.

It was Alena Jasaityte, who had been the belle of his wedding feast! Alena Jasaityte, who had
looked so beautiful, and danced with such a queenly air, with Juozas Raczius, the teamster!
Jurgis had only seen her once or twice afterward, for Juozas had thrown her over for another
girl, and Alena had gone away from Packingtown, no one knew where. And now he met her here!

She was as much surprised as he was. "Jurgis Rudkus!" she gasped. "And what in the world is
the matter with you?"

"I--I've had hard luck," he stammered. "I'm out of work, and I've no home and no money. And
you, Alena--are you married?"

"No," she answered, "I'm not married, but I've got a good place."

They stood staring at each other for a few moments longer. Finally Alena spoke again. "Jurgis,"
she said, "I'd help you if I could, upon my word I would, but it happens that I've come out
without my purse, and I honestly haven't a penny with me: I can do something better for you,
though--I can tell you how to get help. I can tell you where Marija is."

Jurgis gave a start. "Marija!" he exclaimed.

"Yes," said Alena; "and she'll help you. She's got a place, and she's doing well; she'll be
glad to see you."

It was not much more than a year since Jurgis had left Packingtown, feeling like one escaped
from jail; and it had been from Marija and Elzbieta that he was escaping. But now, at the mere
mention of them, his whole being cried out with joy. He wanted to see them; he wanted to go
home! They would help him--they would be kind to him. In a flash he had thought over the situation.
He had a good excuse for running away--his grief at the death of his son; and also he had a
good excuse for not returning--the fact that they had left Packingtown. "All right," he said,
"I'll go."

So she gave him a number on Clark Street, adding, "There's no need to give you my address,
because Marija knows it." And Jurgis set out, without further ado. He found a large brownstone
house of aristocratic appearance, and rang the basement bell. A young colored girl came to
the door, opening it about an inch, and gazing at him suspiciously.

"What do you want?" she demanded.

"Does Marija Berczynskas live here?" he inquired.

"I dunno," said the girl. "What you want wid her?"

"I want to see her," said he; "she's a relative of mine."

The girl hesitated a moment. Then she opened the door and said, "Come in." Jurgis came and
stood in the hall, and she continued: "I'll go see. What's yo' name?"

"Tell her it's Jurgis," he answered, and the girl went upstairs. She came back at the end of
a minute or two, and replied, "Dey ain't no sich person here."

Jurgis's heart went down into his boots. "I was told this was where she lived!" he cried. But
the girl only shook her head. "De lady says dey ain't no sich person here," she said.

And he stood for a moment, hesitating, helpless with dismay. Then he turned to go to the door.
At the same instant, however, there came a knock upon it, and the girl went to open it. Jurgis
heard the shuffling of feet, and then heard her give a cry; and the next moment she sprang
back, and past him, her eyes shining white with terror, and bounded up the stairway, screaming
at the top of her lungs: "Police! Police! We're pinched!"

Jurgis stood for a second, bewildered. Then, seeing blue-coated forms rushing upon him, he
sprang after the Negress. Her cries had been the signal for a wild uproar above; the house
was full of people, and as he entered the hallway he saw them rushing hither and thither, crying
and screaming with alarm. There were men and women, the latter clad for the most part in wrappers,
the former in all stages of dishabille. At one side Jurgis caught a glimpse of a big apartment
with plush-covered chairs, and tables covered with trays and glasses. There were playing cards
scattered all over the floor--one of the tables had been upset, and bottles of wine were rolling
about, their contents running out upon the carpet. There was a young girl who had fainted,
and two men who were supporting her; and there were a dozen others crowding toward the front door.

Suddenly, however, there came a series of resounding blows upon it, causing the crowd to give
back. At the same instant a stout woman, with painted cheeks and diamonds in her ears, came
running down the stairs, panting breathlessly: "To the rear! Quick!"

She led the way to a back staircase, Jurgis following; in the kitchen she pressed a spring,
and a cupboard gave way and opened, disclosing a dark passageway. "Go in!" she cried to the
crowd, which now amounted to twenty or thirty, and they began to pass through. Scarcely had
the last one disappeared, however, before there were cries from in front, and then the panic-stricken
throng poured out again, exclaiming: "They're there too! We're trapped!"

"Upstairs!" cried the woman, and there was another rush of the mob, women and men cursing and
screaming and fighting to be first. One flight, two, three--and then there was a ladder to
the roof, with a crowd packed at the foot of it, and one man at the top, straining and struggling
to lift the trap door. It was not to be stirred, however, and when the woman shouted up to
unhook it, he answered: "It's already unhooked. There's somebody sitting on it!"

And a moment later came a voice from downstairs: "You might as well quit, you people. We mean
business, this time."

So the crowd subsided; and a few moments later several policemen came up, staring here and
there, and leering at their victims. Of the latter the men were for the most part frightened
and sheepish-looking. The women took it as a joke, as if they were used to it--though if they
had been pale, one could not have told, for the paint on their cheeks. One black-eyed young
girl perched herself upon the top of the balustrade, and began to kick with her slippered foot
at the helmets of the policemen, until one of them caught her by the ankle and pulled her down.
On the floor below four or five other girls sat upon trunks in the hall, making fun of the
procession which filed by them. They were noisy and hilarious, and had evidently been drinking;
one of them, who wore a bright red kimono, shouted and screamed in a voice that drowned out
all the other sounds in the hall--and Jurgis took a glance at her, and then gave a start, and
a cry, "Marija!"

She heard him, and glanced around; then she shrank back and half sprang to her feet in amazement.
"Jurgis!" she gasped.

For a second or two they stood staring at each other. "How did you come here?" Marija exclaimed.

"I came to see you," he answered.

"When?"

"Just now."

"But how did you know--who told you I was here?"

"Alena Jasaityte. I met her on the street."

Again there was a silence, while they gazed at each other. The rest of the crowd was watching
them, and so Marija got up and came closer to him. "And you?" Jurgis asked. "You live here?"

"Yes," said Marija, "I live here." Then suddenly came a hail from below: "Get your clothes
on now, girls, and come along. You'd best begin, or you'll be sorry--it's raining outside."

"Br-r-r!" shivered some one, and the women got up and entered the various doors which lined
the hallway.

"Come," said Marija, and took Jurgis into her room, which was a tiny place about eight by six,
with a cot and a chair and a dressing stand and some dresses hanging behind the door. There
were clothes scattered about on the floor, and hopeless confusion everywhere--boxes of rouge
and bottles of perfume mixed with hats and soiled dishes on the dresser, and a pair of slippers
and a clock and a whisky bottle on a chair.

Marija had nothing on but a kimono and a pair of stockings; yet she proceeded to dress before
Jurgis, and without even taking the trouble to close the door. He had by this time divined
what sort of a place he was in; and he had seen a great deal of the world since he had left
home, and was not easy to shock--and yet it gave him a painful start that Marija should do
this. They had always been decent people at home, and it seemed to him that the memory of old
times ought to have ruled her. But then he laughed at himself for a fool. What was he, to be
pretending to decency!

"How long have you been living here?" he asked.

"Nearly a year," she answered.

"Why did you come?"

"I had to live," she said; "and I couldn't see the children starve."

He paused for a moment, watching her. "You were out of work?" he asked, finally.

"I got sick," she replied, "and after that I had no money. And then Stanislovas died--"

"Stanislovas dead!"

"Yes," said Marija, "I forgot. You didn't know about it."

"How did he die?"

"Rats killed him," she answered.

Jurgis gave a gasp. "Rats killed him!"

"Yes," said the other; she was bending over, lacing her shoes as she spoke. "He was working
in an oil factory--at least he was hired by the men to get their beer. He used to carry cans
on a long pole; and he'd drink a little out of each can, and one day he drank too much, and
fell asleep in a corner, and got locked up in the place all night. When they found him the
rats had killed him and eaten him nearly all up."

Jurgis sat, frozen with horror. Marija went on lacing up her shoes. There was a long silence.

Suddenly a big policeman came to the door. "Hurry up, there," he said.

"As quick as I can," said Marija, and she stood up and began putting on her corsets with feverish
haste.

"Are the rest of the people alive?" asked Jurgis, finally.

"Yes," she said.

"Where are they?"

"They live not far from here. They're all right now."

"They are working?" he inquired.

"Elzbieta is," said Marija, "when she can. I take care of them most of the time--I'm making
plenty of money now."

Jurgis was silent for a moment. "Do they know you live here--how you live?" he asked.

"Elzbieta knows," answered Marija. "I couldn't lie to her. And maybe the children have found
out by this time. It's nothing to be ashamed of--we can't help it."

"And Tamoszius?" he asked. "Does he know?"

Marija shrugged her shoulders. "How do I know?" she said. "I haven't seen him for over a year.
He got blood poisoning and lost one finger, and couldn't play the violin any more; and then
he went away."

Marija was standing in front of the glass fastening her dress. Jurgis sat staring at her. He
could hardly believe that she was the same woman he had known in the old days; she was so quiet--so
hard! It struck fear to his heart to watch her.

Then suddenly she gave a glance at him. "You look as if you had been having a rough time of
it yourself," she said.

"I have," he answered. "I haven't a cent in my pockets, and nothing to do."

"Where have you been?"

"All over. I've been hoboing it. Then I went back to the yards--just before the strike." He
paused for a moment, hesitating. "I asked for you," he added. "I found you had gone away, no
one knew where. Perhaps you think I did you a dirty trick running away as I did, Marija--"

"No," she answered, "I don't blame you. We never have--any of us. You did your best--the job
was too much for us." She paused a moment, then added: "We were too ignorant--that was the
trouble. We didn't stand any chance. If I'd known what I know now we'd have won out."

"You'd have come here?" said Jurgis.

"Yes," she answered; "but that's not what I meant. I meant you--how differently you would have
behaved--about Ona."

Jurgis was silent; he had never thought of that aspect of it.

"When people are starving," the other continued, "and they have anything with a price, they
ought to sell it, I say. I guess you realize it now when it's too late. Ona could have taken
care of us all, in the beginning." Marija spoke without emotion, as one who had come to regard
things from the business point of view.

"I--yes, I guess so," Jurgis answered hesitatingly. He did not add that he had paid three hundred
dollars, and a foreman's job, for the satisfaction of knocking down "Phil" Connor a second time.

The policeman came to the door again just then. "Come on, now," he said. "Lively!"

"All right," said Marija, reaching for her hat, which was big enough to be a drum major's,
and full of ostrich feathers. She went out into the hall and Jurgis followed, the policeman
remaining to look under the bed and behind the door.

"What's going to come of this?" Jurgis asked, as they started down the steps.

"The raid, you mean? Oh, nothing--it happens to us every now and then. The madame's having
some sort of time with the police; I don't know what it is, but maybe they'll come to terms
before morning. Anyhow, they won't do anything to you. They always let the men off."

"Maybe so," he responded, "but not me--I'm afraid I'm in for it."

"How do you mean?"

"I'm wanted by the police," he said, lowering his voice, though of course their conversation
was in Lithuanian. "They'll send me up for a year or two, I'm afraid."

"Hell!" said Marija. "That's too bad. I'll see if I can't get you off."

Downstairs, where the greater part of the prisoners were now massed, she sought out the stout
personage with the diamond earrings, and had a few whispered words with her. The latter then
approached the police sergeant who was in charge of the raid. "Billy," she said, pointing to
Jurgis, "there's a fellow who came in to see his sister. He'd just got in the door when you
knocked. You aren't taking hoboes, are you?"

The sergeant laughed as he looked at Jurgis. "Sorry," he said, "but the orders are every one
but the servants."

So Jurgis slunk in among the rest of the men, who kept dodging behind each other like sheep
that have smelled a wolf. There were old men and young men, college boys and gray-beards old
enough to be their grandfathers; some of them wore evening dress--there was no one among them
save Jurgis who showed any signs of poverty.

When the roundup was completed, the doors were opened and the party marched out. Three patrol
wagons were drawn up at the curb, and the whole neighborhood had turned out to see the sport;
there was much chaffing, and a universal craning of necks. The women stared about them with
defiant eyes, or laughed and joked, while the men kept their heads bowed, and their hats pulled
over their faces. They were crowded into the patrol wagons as if into streetcars, and then
off they went amid a din of cheers. At the station house Jurgis gave a Polish name and was
put into a cell with half a dozen others; and while these sat and talked in whispers, he lay
down in a corner and gave himself up to his thoughts.

