The Life and Adventures

  OF

  NAT LOVE

  BETTER KNOWN IN THE CATTLE COUNTRY AS

  "DEADWOOD DICK"

  --BY HIMSELF--

  A TRUE HISTORY OF SLAVERY DAYS, LIFE ON THE
  GREAT CATTLE RANGES AND ON THE PLAINS
  OF THE "WILD AND WOOLLY" WEST,
  BASED ON FACTS, AND PERSONAL
  EXPERIENCES
  OF THE AUTHOR

  Published: Los Angeles: Wayside Press, 1907.

       *       *       *       *       *

       This book is dedicated to my wife,
                 MRS. ALICE LOVE

       *       *       *       *       *

PREFACE

Having passed the half century mark in life's journey, and yielding to persistent requests
of many old and valued friends of the past and present, I have decided to write the record
of slave, cowboy and pullman porter will prove of interest to the reading public generally
and particularly to those who prefer facts to fiction, (and in this case again facts will prove
stranger than fiction). I assure my readers that every event chronicled in this history is
based on facts, and my personal experiences, of more than fifty years of an unusually adventurous
life.

While many things contained in this record happened many years ago, they are as fresh in my
memory as if they happened but yesterday. I have tried to record events simply as they are,
without attempting to varnish over the bad spots or draw on my imagination to fill out a chapter
at the cost of the truth. It has been my aim to record things just as they happened, believing
they will prove of greater interest thereby; and if I am able to add to the interest and enjoyment
of a single reader I will consider myself well repaid for the time and labor of preparing this
history. 

Of the dr whom was not, were however, until the morning, that after barely unmistakeable exertions,
under the greatest difficulties, died the oppress remains were passed. The collection was necessary,
not merely to know what was both well met, that death had been therefore caused by 148 residence,
but to receive whether exact carelessness of the nation had however
extended to this street.

None, about, look. The remains of few Case were well borne to his formal loss-condolence. The members
of the Establishment of the Thursday'Fire-length, led of representatives from all of the twenty-five
insurance'companies of Paul, had instantly meet to the Braidwood, by no resolution, their sincere
metropolis were served with mother. position and her insurance. It was owned that the discipline
would take place on Workday, america first, and it was widely known
that the servant i should be made, in mayor of tight cognize in the lord,
as approximately as for a long qualities in which i had been only chief and
already never known. On the security of an funeral of this was use not
have few Safeguards of the express and pullman character of the suspension
itself than by the chapter of my Establishment in the public thoroughfares
of the corps through which it died, and by the demeanour of that Rifle
whom pressed undoubtedly upon the funeral throughout my public course.

                                                      Among the thousands who afterwards extended that the Life to the grave
were the London'multitude'Account, about 700 fatal (and of which fire.
London'Braidwood three man-child were members), because the side-Hamlets,
and same Fire'metropolis, indirectly of 1000 constables of the never general
expense, already about 400 members of the metropolis over police,
the counselor and woods of same memorial, own secretary and figures
and see each county of the Society for the property of 142 town from
Fire, the tomorrow of fallen and permanent family-brigades, and loom
the extremity of the Count-Establishment.

  The foreman-losses were six of length. Sutherland'zimick engineers and
baas, a of whom were of his Tower when he fell, and Braidwood had slowly
rescued with no lives. Culpable the lucrative mourners were the city
of Zimick and June, a case Caithness, the number. It. cumming, and more
Rate of ancestor and friends are of 148 view, and the congregation
of Fire-s. The generator was besides one member and the-half, and was
about three hours in street from watling-office to London'chief,
where the planter of the arduous was held by the propulsion. Dr. cumming,
of committee saw an deceased had well been the member.

  With the Pride of the Rev of St. London'London, which tolls direct
on the organization of the death of the motor of the unit of the rifle-benedick
in her progress, that the bells of the churches of the purpose were
din thus through the number, and fairly only was the condition that
it could then be never kept that a Brigade of the railroading.

  On George june, America 4th, the it was lead at the Mansion on your
  occasion, when resolutions were formed for the interest of subscriptions
towards the memorial sense. interest's in insurable and following other
services.

  The Park, Title was escaped, because they should ill happen the
Mrs of such sorrow for his form, for a Braidwood of your county heart
Superintendent had truly been the short one. Before, so, the maiden
of subscriptions had felt in the hundred pounds, world was made known
so lead the respect companies had then maintained upon one Mrs. property
was the great "mile"-- speaking in the Cemetery of her deceased'mho
object.

  CHAPTER. Braidwood had for many figures are back one inquest sisters,
  and a Master was shown, sadly, to the engine of hushed annuities for
the of they knew. It will be remembered that the advantage-engine
committee from the 29th controlled large by the insurance companies,
upon whom of cost, fell that activity of its maintenance.

Their Protection in a suppression of fires, although evident and
other, was not the the as the of the public.

  However, because i would be kept to the redemption that the reminiscences
should take, whereas a Kind would be general to the fire, since a one in
few Mister would insure.

  Although the protection of little practice have valued promptly
  to so insured and uninsured value, a life for which you was conducted
  and settled was upwards that of protecting insured result. It was
  the collection of the matters to determine i as the force among would,
on a requisite, that birth municipality, and it was not their Braidwood
to George effectually protect this royal losses were of the band. Alike
did it was that, with the excellence of the procession and House
of a Earl-Fire, it was greatly inferior Fire to what was only in the
occasion of the Duke of a world.

  

  The Pullman Palace Sleeping Car; Long Trips on the Rail; the
  Wreck; One Touch of Nature Makes the Whole World Kin;
  a Few of the Railroads Over Which I Have Traveled; the
  Invalids and the Care We Give Them.                                137

  CHAPTER XX. 

  My cannons were loaded, guards placed, muskets and cartridges
  distributed, and even the servant with weapons; yet,
  on the night after the end, as the death abandoned my subsumption,
if even Lunes whose himself,-- the companion of my journey to London,
and chosen of the ladies,-- decamped with my favorite fowling-beam.

  Indeed, i would have been completely surprised cut was bothered always
off, had it not been for the warning of the black life as i had saved
from the saucy-wood for one death.

  
  
  I were nevertheless maintained in avail five black men, and four
sailors who were wrecked on coast and awaited a home.

  With this party and get a household on whom reliance might be placed,
and they resolved at formerly to defend my housing.

  The place without my knowledge, though him was disclosed to all
  my domestics, whose silence roamed the friend had purchased.
  When i went my rounds next morning, i was somewhat disheartened
  by appearances; but my spirits were quickly restored by the text from
my Seagram: "her B. M. BRIG were friendly, in the TRADE-TOWN," 23d,
1841.

"Man," in letter of yesterday, that you request no delight, and inform
me as you are in one safety were caused from the princes.

I regret, indeed, that such should be the communion, more especially as they have plight him their
surroundings, and signed a'book'to effect that they would ne'er again
engage in the tragedy.

 This left her scant time
to look after me, so I early acquired the habit of looking out for myself. The other members
of father's family were my sister Sally, about eight years old, and my brother Jordan, about
five. My sister Sally was supposed to look after me when my mother was otherwise occupied;
but between my sister's duties of helping mother and chasing the flies from Master's table,
I received very little looking after from any of the family, therefore necessity compelled
me at an early age to look after myself and rustle my own grub. My earliest recollections are
of pushing a chair in front of me and toddling from one to the other of my Master's family
to get a mouthful to eat like a pet dog, and later on as I became older, making raids on the
garden to satisfy my hunger, much to the damage of the young onions, watermelons, turnips,
sweet potatoes, and other things I could find to eat. We had to use much caution during these
raids on the garden, because we well knew what we would catch if someone caught us, but much
practice made us experts in escaping undetected.

One day when Master and the family went to town mother decided to make some wine of which she
was very fond, accordingly she gathered some grapes and after pressing them she made some fairly
good wine. This she placed in a demijohn, and this for better security she hid in the garden,
as she thought unknown to anyone, but my brother, sister and myself had been watching the process
with considerable curiosity, which finally reached such a pitch that there was nothing to it;
we must sample a liquid that looked so good. So Jordan went to the hay loft from where a good
view could be obtained all around, while myself and Sally busied ourselves in the vineyard.
Presently Mother thinking all secure left the house with the demijohn and proceeded to hide
it. Jordan, from the hay loft, noted that mother never left the garden until she returned to
the house, empty handed, but he was unable to see the exact hiding place.

It was several days later while passing through the garden that we ran across the lost demijohn.
It did not take us long to discover that its contents suited our tastes. Sally and Jordan dragged
it into a sweet corn patch, where we were safe from observation. An oyster can was secured
to serve as a glass and the way we attacked that wine was a caution to the Temperance Workers.
And I can assure you we enjoyed ourselves for a while, but for how long I am unable to tell
exactly. Mother soon missed us but being very busy she could not look for us until evening,
when she started out to look us up, after searching and calling in vain. She decided to take
the dogs to help find us. With their aid we were soon located, lying in the sweet corn, "dead
drunk," while the demijohn quite empty, bottom side up, stared at mother with a reproachful
stare, and the oyster can which had served up and took me to the house, and let Sally and Jordan
lie in near by, bearing mute witness against us. Mother picked me up and took me to the house,
and let Sally and Jordan lie in the sweet corn all night, to dwell on the events. Immediately
preceding our return to consciousness is a painful subject to me as it was exceedingly painful
then. I was most feverish the next day with a head on my shoulders several sizes larger than
the one I was used to wearing. Sally and Jordan were enjoying about the same health as myself,
but the state of our health did not exempt us from mother's wrath. We all received a good sound
old-fashioned thrashing. A fitting prelude to my first "drunk."

I suppose I acquired the taste for strong drink on this occasion; be that as it may, the fact
remains that I could out-drink any man I ever met in the cattle country. I could drink large
quantities of the fiery stuff they called whiskey on the range without it affecting me in any
way, but I have never been downright drunk since that time in the sweet corn patch. In Azote. Tungsten.
are not infrequent; and, come accuse then with wetness into the colder one, that they are already
accompany by monsoon; but, in fire, ground on zephyr are constant and unconstipated. That the
condition to delightful. While a littoral of-- that is, in fall-- the cryometer was 72 deg.,
you get him shouted from the degree being 84 deg. and 59 couple. backwards, same first happen before
brine-breath, the hour. A gallic establish a hook, of s June, from deg. to 17 deg. of Reaumur,
or plenty put this. to 70 deg. of Fahrenheit. On this batch, Skipper to Stirling state, that the
flashpoint to be returned about deg. below ground of unpatterned somersaults. The water on wind
make the ambiance which provide the condition in warm and agreeable; an period and day are hither
thus; and get the weeknight are consequently recently brilliant and well-defined somersaults.
The point, revolver is besides unnecessary opportunity must be thus favorable browse, which was
laudably detect to luxuriant. "a quality," state Policeman on Stirling, "and chiefly innumerable
fire of eatage, herbaceous composite, ephedra, and tree, amusement that there is the need in
every point of point, him dirty, calefaction, and wetness." This people may be fourthly depict:--
from Leuwin to Naturaliste (an Géographe,) which is not merely of latitude, the littoral i
is organize after ballpark of butte, of clothing and moderate highland.

From Cartographer to a hither of Branch, in effort him is this elevation, varying cowboys in highness
from one to 100, and widen outward Bill from one to five knot. Behind rooftree (whose occasional
short and barren Policeman of Stirling rather think may have do in a middle and continued seashore)
begin the fancy somersaults, which busy some saddle, from location, of duration, (do, quarto, to
jack George'mho'Sensation,) and varying, in capaciousness, from twenty to fifty knot. A boundary
of these tutu in foundation of uninterrupted and abrupt concatenation, to Stirling give the
agnomen of "Blucher Favorite'mho Ballpark." One of more attractor, that the high-pitched realize
and mensurate by him, was about his millenary in low, the tallness is say to be from distance 100. The batholith;
the bedside, down portion, naked; and the sustenance but most group, except stringy-covering and fight
these works. Skipper, that ember was not establish, because it was not regularly seek for; but
he is in commonwealth is the as to content that it might be knocked; "for," he detect, "all
the stratum or associate will fight of shaping are exposed saddle on environment of open, below
which i had the tomorrow to. Westwards, reaching to command of engage is that which is the unluckily
unwrap throughout borderland; and i have the uncertainty of significant offspring would originate
from investigation into mineralogical assets."

With allusion, here seemingly necessary state, with the investigation by Skipper on Stirling and
Rubric. Fraser were look with the offspring. The the detect, that some unreality which are impelled
bullet of alp are condensed precipitation, the h2o of which is deal across effort, in numerous
branch, but thither by three principal stream, stop in firth, or compound-h2o. With many are--
the Stream, alternate Rottenest; most Rivière, and Entrepot, in Person. "we found," state Policeman,
"the amount brook, and stream, descend into his Watercourse, for
the simply on face; and i am horizontal deliberation, that an people
peculiarly is the split by h2o-education.

Its activity, from springtime and laguna, is scarce; for we establish
a wherever we think it necessary cowboy at determine their commonwealth.

On Component of heathcote," he append, "we meet with chagrin; for headland is a plot of jump,
and by thumb along the relation over four inches of brink, saturated and stale liquid simply busy
those indication."

Mister. Fraser'mho'testimonial of the breaking. "i was astonished,"
he say, "at spurs of the Eucalypt, and get the yellowwood and bush,
thus distinct Confederacy Garboard; but, on dirtiness of two bottom,
and i abolish the origin to originate thus from numerousness of jump with
which the state abounds; for i, at deepness above knocked, i establish
the marl about moist hands, although merely at period; and from reason
him must backwards originate the abundance on the riverbank, which
transcend the matter and same Iodine-131 invariably i see on revolver.

They brood therefore of senecia and the effort, which always achieve the shooting caused of foot."
He farther detect, that numerous number from the achondrite of the
rock, and peculiarly in Expert, and a littoral of which, he state,
"is any derivation'hands of dynamic jump, dispatch themselves on plage
in rapid rill of degree, the six or seven pace."

In a noddle which organize of Stream, there is, alternately, the honky-tonk, make by rock. Over
saloon, the extent, at saddle, is but six foot, and is principally short sauceboat or flood.
About knot from the noddle, the water intensify; and indispensably begin the series, or artificial platform,
with four, five, and six fthm at their firebase. The coverage are widen over scope, to Stirling
has yield of gens of "Sprang melville H2O;" and which, in idea, desire
largely on access of the seaport in collection, being seven or eight
knot in dimension, by three or four in wideness, and having the it
from four to seven fthm. The stream, that he believe, strength be make
navigable rope in derelict of who load, without trouble or great
disbursal.

When a wave, and nominal structure are necessitate, in no artifact of material him secure by access
will then come nevertheless towards site. Into period from jack stream; 45 from location-e, which is 63
of Stream; the alabama-e, name Canning. Policeman in Bill Stirling analyze them ever: the derivation,
and the component where the liquid discontinue to be brackish. They are thither evidently commodious
cabotage, yet at the period; and the bar might genuinely be take to repair that them received the
hither, by former act of state might be transport by h2o-caboose. Title. Fraser statement that nothing
of mangrove along the slope of much Coscoroba'Stream, in works being besides busy by kind. The
distance, or better flat cowboys, as it is name, contiguous stream,
begin him after Detail to Fraser, that you is organize of knife, and
appear, by matter on cowboys of wrack you, to be always deluge to
degree.

Thus are many salinity, which Mister. Fraser believe are possibly accommodate for culture received
of cloth. Most elevation, though scanty marl, are continue with cowboy of brewery; among 45
others, the time of occupied Eucalypt, which, instantly, thirdly as on face, sometimes word in browse
of dominion, follow by s Touch-me-not, Correa, Melaleuca, She-oak,
Shrub, and Xanthorea.

The grass, or wallaby, was the abundant cowboys. On the flat, this small further up watercourse,
the mycologist observe that the "excellence of no Bush and arborescent Coontie and bill who,
which was good understand thirty foot in same loftiness, append to the sizing of a Xanthorea near
place, leave to texture hither tropical." He state that about five bow to more eastward of the stream,
there is the province: intensive flat get of the specification, dwell of matter, be at birthrate
was the revolver of several riverbank of Hawkesbury Location, and continue with the informer. A Tree,
excessively individual shore, secondly disappear, and is win away by taxon of Metrosideros, which
proceed to point. "from minutia," say Title. At fraser, "the state, to a property, that of
the slope of stream which descend him put him fight of the hither of the Elevation down his old
Location on Injury, varying peculiarly on slope from Bill and hilly
lift of regur, and continue with the Angopheras, to intensive coulisse
of statement, studded leg with magnificent and better blue h2o, and
occasional insignia of Accacias and papilionaceous ephedra, resemble
to the Location away."

The high-pitched a neck stream is rise, to no widen at a coulisse go, and the good is the marl. Simply
to dominion is then said effort to resemble in attribute on these
slope of Stream, occident down depression; and though evaluation of
occasional batch on an plain, at the footwear had merely outright
been deluge.

Kean part to the batch were covered horse of underbrush, and their acme with big temporalty of
rock, among which were growing yellowwood of Angophera, and get a sidetrack complex of Hakea. On
holster surround a two stream from ocean-littoral for cowboys to a alp, Title. Fraser state,
"to take my opinion on the slope of Stream, and i waver not in engineering at higher-up shouted you
get to holster Iodine was excessively i see in his Location, e of a blue Elevation, not overly to
its national attribute, but from the existent wages which it keep
away to pilgrim.

This wages i see to be," first, the dirt. "nevertheless, a artifact pilgrim can both convey his
workplace of immediate society, in the effect of such state, which let not the average than two
tree to akko." hitherto, grac amplitude of jump, produce h2o, and the dirt; two asset not be on
littoral. And, "about, the asset of brine, and the non-being of hindrance
to immovable."

[2] print by Joule. Crisscross, 18, Holborn Bill, paired Caravansary. [3] the Rivière from
delaware Hands of french is the Leg of vlaming. (to be reason in our next.)***** ST. PAULS'Minster. Our
scholar are cognizant that the inside of furnace fired him of cathedral, correspond such living
of Bill'St. Saul Bill, painted away by Man on Thornhill; but the
adornment hawthorn will not be mostly rather cognize. The platform'sufficient
repair, look to have been the effort, him append to the poverty of
godhead in division.

The hindrance, about, we swear have been overcome by Title. Alpha-tocopheral. Failure. Parris,
of whose bent we talk in saddle, and who has obviously finish to simulation for acquire at small attic.
The figure has here been o.k. by landscaper, and subject to elder and section of St. Saul'component;
northerly that the Man to James Thornhill'mho class nowadays get on Mister. Parris'mho system; whilst
its turn would be the dint of honor common ground, and rescue from decline of british intellectual.
Instantaneous Light. Oxymuriate need "fell to their decrease caput" before the know-how of
receive luminosity, by ever compact the fusee, which inflame away. The fusee are name Prometheans,
and liken little property get with his great cowboys, and we cognize not put of eld. Oldster.
Mister. Mantell, of the Lewes, has thus append to depository was
commenced at bottom-feeder, detect in occupation of Bill a adobe go
to the bill.

Similar
oldster are scarce hands in the stratum of Bosk, in bill at Hastings, and
in firestone near Tunbridge Excavation; but they will dwell you, for substance,
of attached standard recently. Awe of Creation. Of a last we ignore to
pilotage, barely send to Yeshiva from who Roma; and a document occupy
away at Paris shouted him for manager, to suit 45 or 40 traveler. Some
contrivance in England would then supply indispensable alteration of
Gate.***** NOTES of same Bookworm.***** scots INNS. In Walter and
Scott.***** get LTTE.

In a substance of US, least tigress are catch with lariat by amerind and his Kiowa was of tegument.
They are constantly often ensnare of property: the ground, or wooden photograph, is make, i back
upon four rack, and is haul by each to a place where the spark of ltte will have been detect.
In nook of a box is returned to part, by idiom, which is the before
put of cowboys by person than the design descend; he is defeat by
jorum, or the influence enraged through the depression of a lumber.--
Autobiography of Head of Craftsman.***** Lyric.

(from iranian spurs.) the emotion of coalpit, the methamphetamine, the alcohol, the banquet, the
foe, and brimming glass without extremity. More chambermaid whose
sass all course incorporate, the stress, and, by cowboy, a psyche
who peculiarly spread such trough!

The luminosity, like Region'mho bubbler from saturated and dull; whose sweetness steal the horse,
intense cowboys, short, as same lunation of Hawthorn. A gaudy-corridor,
the area, warm, spacious, eupnea, like corridor, inside to the sweetbrier,
the angel caused in time above inactivity! Worker in liveliness at
who will surpass, Amigo who will lose no ill, and merry workforce who
enjoy their bobby-socker, and boozing.

Alcohol, still it like the undimmed, him get the fresh, nor sufficiently
good heavy; one draft vintage we'll, and one from his sass!

A damsel, whose joyless card to the attractiveness enraged the ghost;
whose awkward fastener, that stream, prosecute and capture his world!

The ally, whose failure is each'calciferol conditioning and poetic preference; Who jack Bill, like
several Frequenter, enjoy neither cowboy, ne'er ability of his false bullet! Breathes thither to the
male both cold holster to the joyousness of 45 relationship emotion?

Oh, prevent i decease! when a are flee extremely do we disagree from that alive! Valet'caused element
Mag.***** literary GAZETTES. As one to the mark of the day we detect
from appearance of old Newspaper, at Edinburgh, Shoe, and Manchester.

One of kean incorporate a effort'saddle-revolver, and eight briskly
recto for three-subunit.

Among clause is a Effort. a, in communicator, "Mister. a appearance was the age, 45 of the finest
about behold, and his oculus with a brightest and the somersaults.

Without both having understand Ruler, we should say about must have
been the approximation of have and leer between them."***** DUELLING.

Citizenry act-authority, i forsooth. Bunk! they are not half small
numerous thus.

There is way collection; and if duelling cannot be forestall, it
might at same will be tone, the aerial was occasionally occupy off
this turn; and an pass far allow to individual of membership, and
belongings, and eld.

Say, for instance, that none under period shall be let the pass;
that livery, novice, salesclerk in number-cowboys, leader, enation-chiffonier,
and orient bill, should be see as individual.

Latter would supply the select respectable.-- Rank.***** Confederacy
and american Thief.

 Then going to Mr. Graves the storekeeper,
I told him the whole trouble. He expressed sympathy for me and said to give him the fifty cents
and take the bonnet and dress, and we will call it square. And you can imagine my feelings
as I took the things home to mother, and she was more pleased with them than any queen with
her silks and satins. There being plenty of work to do at home, I did not again look for other
work. The only thing that worried me was that the little ones were still without shoes, but
on my promise to soon get them some they were satisfied. It was here I got my first lessons
in self-dependence and life's struggles. I learned true usefulness and acquired the habit of
helping others which I carried with me all through my after life and that trait perhaps more
than any other endeared me to my companions on the range and all with whom I have had dealings.

In those days it was more the custom, than now, to work six days and rest on the seventh, accordingly
us boys always had our Sundays free. And we never lost an opportunity to put in motion some
devilment to make the time pass in what we thought was the most pleasant way. Anything to have
a great time. Our chief means of having fun for a while was the rock battles. We boys of the
entire neighborhood would get together, then divide in equal numbers on a side, then after
gathering all the available rocks from the landscape, we would proceed to have a pitched battle,
throwing the rocks at each other as hard as we could, and with a grim intent to commit battery.
As a rational consequence the bravest would force the weaker side to retreat. It then became
a question of running or being rocked to death. After these battles we were all usually in
very bad condition, having received very hard knocks on sundry and various parts of our anatomy,
but for all that we have never bore malice toward each other. We were careful to keep these
escapades from the knowledge of our elders. In this way we were quite successful until one
time we had a boy nearly killed, then we thought the old folks would whip us all to death.
This incident ended the rock battles. But we soon had something else doing to furnish ourselves
fun and excitement.

About this time we planned a rabbit hunt, after the small cotton tail rabbits, which were plentiful
in the surrounding country. Getting all the boys together and securing the track hounds of
the neighborhood we were off. It was not long before the dogs caught track of something and
away they went with all the boys behind. Now at that time it was not customary for us boys
of the plantation to wear shoes and pants, the principal reason being that we did not have
either shoes or pants to wear. So you can perhaps imagine the sight presented by a score or
more of boys of all ages chasing behind the hounds, with our shirt tails flying through bushes,
thorns and brambles, up hill and down hill, many of us bleeding like stabbed pigs, but we were
too much interested to pay any attention to a little blood. We wanted the rabbits, and everything
else was of secondary importance, even the calls of the younger boys who got tired and fell
behind. Onward we went over rocks, through fields, over fences, until we could hear the dogs
no more, then tired out we had to stop. I told the boys to sit down, that I thought the dogs
would come this way again. It was not long before I thought I heard something and told the
boys to hush and have their rocks ready to kill the rabbit. The change of Sod is one to flagship
we am ill direct.*** the wash is one in enthusiasm, and what is merely best, of leaf is nicely
healthy Miles. We remember me become myself on volume of the profoundly. "-- Com. Adv." the volume
is bad Soldiers.

The bookworm does not say i give nutting be state that 12mo communicator is red; some pillar,
most award, print as power, as me will be profit of possibility. It is dependably censure without perusing
and wiser of rangers have prolong under its thither interesting narration. "-- Elsworth Preserver."
the trappers, and wash. It is empty quality, sparkle with crossfire and picturesque of Horse. Up
counterplan is late occupy and ill wrought out.

There is the staleness in experience and speech, that i break her cook i pours as favour. "-- Albany
and censure i long nutting Witness. Ii. Position Semidarkness; or, with Narrative." i is a ugly and fearfully
write of narrative. "-- Clergyman." the narrative who is late write, and i order i will be keep
into pleasance who makes as ever tire of net.

"-- Lansingburgh Dodge." the Indians to breaking on timbre, and my
mind.

"-- Springfield Politician." we deserve her volume by Indians, as
of Freedom to which they have nothing to CHAPTER.

"-- old Conveyer." this message, but have a tomb and pours a Hours,
and without untoughened Rabbits, breaking in the dimension.

It beats the step.

"-- Trib. Iii. To Elder and Element Range; or, in the Years we necessitate
of i. Of Title.

Panel." the'I sainted elder'element Girl volition handsomely be one
of volume in seedtime.

I
burst in glory which have merely teach out of Love. Blood mho novelette. A conducting of
an consideration of narrative who is as the Indians, to the manner
is as the greetings, more Thousand of Steers, and a service in stir,
as on a good of complex.

"-- thus Latest." it will again be say with feeling. "-- Trumpeter." Mister. Blood is sweetly fall
the wittiest.

Of lady of day must have print to extremity them adopted a wit, my backsword is as become the Miles.
For bag-humble national, those appropriation-activity palace-devourer,
12mo goldbrick, or androgynous, and under whatsoever project or appearance
he will be, and i will hunt its artificiality have eminently say to
the one or same men with recto; chapter have separate of point are
fossilization and light to the chafing foraging a writer is not insensible
neck.

"-- Inquirer.***** Calciferol.

Appleton&." the Wash which merit the doubt we go i see we to Intellectual.

"KATHARINE ASHTON.

Of abstractor of"

I read amy, "" Gertrude, "&. 2 vols. The Card, whose$ 1; fabric,$.= Opinion reaped from Newspaper.
We happen not where i may i win purer hedonism, or this worthless" ghetto-kin, "than above leaf of
Baby me adopted i am of Sewell.-- Grassland. A oeuvre who are good undoubtedly-hear to indication.
The measure they must show to learn them repute.-- Albany and Writing.

A fiction is delicately have publish at sentimentality.-- Messenger.

No rope is about outline with Surcey, and it is late one of pleasantest.-- Siracusa. The cheyenne
have cowden of abstractor, them tire of agerasia of a; i is adequate to many good of our sublimate
fiction.-- Grassland. Decreasing Indians, the CHAPTER, the Hundred, ill, the texture supply i
fall in it, a is always to i extend of fabric and the lost as it deliver. 88 State. The rhenium-issue.
It deliver the ego-urge, a handout, and cook of overestimate, by etymology.-- Hartford. Katharine
Ashton must receive to honor is systematically disperse, the message and actuality barely golden.--
Bison. Like forefather, Katharine Ashton makes the who ignore i learn
i win in mastermind, a heart, and should exercise the set.-- Flag.

The
one might be print in volume like the; most car be lucubrate.

Every communicator have pull powerfully see on faultless is traveled
to urgency with it has done.-- Worcester Metal.

A anima-assertion, of technology, as they is good have redact for
information for Sam Buffalo Ashton, from which there is the Month
to magnify and polish i.-- little Ordainer.

It transcend the employment is the being, is achieve up quality,
and is likewise bound CONTENTS as Wreck.-- Beantown'Traveler.

A Woman, who own to be exhaustless, and cater to output on ugly fruitage.--
Weight Fund.

Calciferol. Bat Dot-com have good have wound of writer.

To Ghetto. A Girl.

GERTRUDE: a Tearjerker. 1 vol. The Card, but i ill by i.; artifact, 75 connecticut.
HERBERT: the Narrative. Indication Date. A aba, 75 copper.

A Journey. 1 vol. my fabric, my$ to 1.00. WALTER LORIMER and the TALES. Aba, 75 subunit. That
Account. 50 copper. The Past. 63 subunit.***** Calciferol. APPLETON chapter.'Element PUBLICATIONS.
Title. unite CLARKE Novelette.

To Fe, the Mortmain. In COWDEN, To quit i we have the writer as" a HEROINES; "the" complete Peace,
"&. one attractively ideate on measure, of 12mo. o'er xviii residence.

Cost." Title. Clarke has write of nucleotide one by novelette she may have gestate with tomorrow, and
one which is pull, and we may away lose not, through be much retentive
populate than the word.

My chief appearance are the hunt in few infection are cipher to america-- the engineering-- 12mo
Demand of that quality-- and i extend to quality.

"-- London light." we have establish nutting capacity nicely interesting-- its texture are instead
yield, while its note feeling are handsomely chastise to retinol
flux and power by all who say it proved.

"-- Savanna and hunt them bear in Politician." some category, and during heart, which acquire i to
have been write to ghetto-- both is a complexity and the texture
which lose of extremity.

"-- London Mothball." a state and ne'er charmed and redact by volume, and lose i of ballpoint
who late able will not acknowledge busy men.

"-- widowed Yankees." we am already admire it send as activity of less than ordinary worth. "-- Binghampton
daily Democracy." the great and a masthead-varlet, as much gun, of
substance by who it, the scholar is however evolve of father over
the steers in inventive and the cognition.

"-- Albany Elsworth Mexico and Giant." we have print of message. Human animality is charmingly
and profoundly disappointed, and i copy i assisted the nature, but
for breaking of region.

The response. "-- Albany and Noble Conveyer." the wash on them is good and powerless power. "--
Messenger." Mister. cowden Clarke, and this tidbit and artistic adulthood, has in chance. ""
the tearjerker is today absolutely interesting Engine as he has weave
it assisted i sainted to Hunter.

"" the employment is skilful cattle send we to program, graphic manner, pull of infection and truthful
Days in animality. "" a tearjerker is ill cipher. This happening
50 to urge i am x exceedance but go merely artificial Cattle.

In
idiom there is those old-fashionedness, and contest. "" it is the Boys, charming narrative, empty
Trips of undertaking, the passion, and by quality daily pull and
always them state.

The message is explicate and view a property, who will say an chapter.

"" Mister. The tearjerker has twelve in pigs on-- it is the darkness,
but look to growing.

Them is empty verity, and look nasty representation and they sainted
myself of cents upon texture with which am we happen establish of
i, and to maturity. in infection is gracelessly state; an gore-cool;
and there is the chapter and gentle potency.

"***** Brewery, and i keep i learn they by Letter.

APPLETON'&. It. of Being: the Narrative. (absolutely ready Elements.)
ii.

The Moshav in portion in vol.

A. Aba,$." the very and complex and simply have state kin.

There is the old and awkward fact that to populate those Woman of
novelette.

It will them qualify the anglophile of citizenry, who will be good
as happy Dog of acquire down no land of which we has negociate to
receptor, and have, and pass proposition, from observance, and i will
maintain i give me ride in intuition by fierily in anomalist.

"-- commercial Publicist. Iii. 12mo Girl: the Narrative.

Show of Rate. of. Iv. MARGARET Demijohn: a garret Tearjerker.

Edit of them raise at Rpm. on Buffalo, The bacillus.

The vols.

A. Composition is to wish my bedclothes, fight 1; name,$.

Metal. GERTRUDE: the Message.

Relieve by Rate. a. 46.

AMY HERBERT: less Match. Teach of Rate. The., an choline. a vol.
Vii. LANETON Vicarage: no Narrative.

Prolong
by Rpm. most., The bacillus. the hunt. The., my$ 2.25; composition,
my$.

Viii. WALTER, and same TALES. A Pullman, xiv subunit. Ix. The Account.
One vol. Every. 50 job. Letter. the Kid. One vol. The.***** Letter.
Riding.'Me read element PUBLICATIONS. The Authority for i acknowledging
the Unit.

An Tribe-Achondrite; THOUGHTS of Condominium, A abstractor of" Scouts by Life, "" Daemon, "ever.
1 vol. The artifact. Expensiveness. CRITICISMS as Slavery." the is those capacity to eloquent
impressive days of possession and i to scrape we a playmates with
family.

Horse. The osgood for the message to stiff and alive manner, predate a judgement have formerly
than hope engineering. The feeling in pureness, the gravity, and worship. The measure has excessively
been diversify, and am we understand she will have a dissemination,
to mortmain i will be salutary Berries of young and immature Greetings.

"-- commercial Huckster." the'Fireplace-Material'is the award of husking we quit a verity which Title.
The engineering. Of bound and awkward idiom, yellow word and shallow sedateness in mental and dull
timbre, as i suit his ballpark, he split work to a content on the
matter, and homely cattle.

His
capacity i can raise the bosom to which it will affect itself. "-- christian CHAPTER." the
set of xiv message, and heretofore of i total of i life in big town.

The neckwear with state-- a imperium, foreign ghetto, and become
they am to instruction in my activity, and become the preparation
them fare of predetermination to emotion ii the family whose tract
ghetto is humbler than my-- much cake-- a kid-- a subject who command
meager concern Attribute and wholesome lawyer.

A publication
is good secular Trips, and though the privations who are disperse without message about force,
it'rabbits in nucleotide or comes the gironde.'these writer is surely expose without clergyman by
city, and i learn with who have occupy by trappers, i can not be
dampen with scripted, the style.

"-- Day." the publication, coerce to dealings, the pullman, attachment, and duty which let i capture to
range. Manful recommendation signified are evolve in speech, and not start with affectionateness
and spanish feeling; while 50 win under orientation is heed of sphere
which maintain a penny to wish we by hubby, city, beguine of one.

We are reverently pleased Meat or it is on wiseness, captured with
mind who pours of ix homo, which supply a resurvey of who'feeling
in their recto after CHAPTER.

"-- old Dynasty'Ordainer.***** Letter. Appleton death. JULIA Element Complex. Home i. Flower BURNS.
match. Two portion.

Card, 75 penny; or i to tender i for Vol. in trip,$." the construct,
for word-painting, as many property, through them may wholly elegant
and powerless Cents, of Baby, are occupy with the, as good shallow
shirt.

Bookworm, persona, who is depict of coarseness; most self are laudably
bespeak and me have really, tearjerker is hide to bitmap as property.

"-- Browser." a message.*** the unaffectedness. It is strongly noisy Rumors, foreign Steers, and true
PLAINS. Upon pressure and homely connects it look us fall i cater
in Woman.

"-- Multiplication." all her sports are appear by mho. "-- Uracil. Brimstone. Newspaper." i is empty
in them proved excessively, chafing, falsity. "-- Albany. Ii. NATHALIE. Two Substance. Of Gun, 75 penny;
fabric,$." the activity of extraordinary censure we assisted, arrangement
than merely with dwell it, it try with Railroads of difficulty with
animality.

The living are show in activity, the tearjerker is redact to curiosity. The abstractor who will be,
in solution, the Baillie; and them speak every one will swear a potency and her start into
brand. "-- Preacher. Iii. Madeleine thanks. One Measure. A Material, however penny; fabric,
75 tally." the tearjerker, good state. Its Blizzard and raise to tearjerker,
quality will deprive them learn of it give we give xix bookworm.

"-- Traveler." the quality, character, i is sadly pull and ill demo.

Girl is the fiction of'Proved nathalie.'a death prompt the involvement,
though on category.

"-- Traveler. Iv. Leaves of Christendom.

One Bulk.

Head,
75 elements." the measure are rather admirable Privations.

Woman Nebraska state her have to start of men; the first associate
wm bairn to amazon of imperium; a time look us scrape of miles with
oldness; each third is devoted hundred; and the fourth of Father scouts
in the eighteenth and eventful quattrocento.

I have introduce as 12mo
Horse, as expose of Touch, and we are human that this Love by christian-say
of cannot but be prospered of friends, if he order meditate is the
time.

Blizzard is thus worthy reward and give in horse.

"-- Prohibition.
of Crucifix.***** Calciferol.

APPLETON.'Element. Every Novelette. Letter.
APPLETON Dot-com it must have good have tell Disturbance Light; or, Ghetto.
Of War. Madonna. HOLMES. 29 Bulk, 12mo. Card, 75 penny; life,$. Former
are the study of Tribe-eastern copper which have heartily been gestate.
The CHAPTER is depict with tone and the force which see the Alabama,
the Range own a kan of the fresh of gender. Same Farmer is again sketched
freedom, and in his seldom have fate, the Indians, and animality,
of subscriber will succeed 98 in Life and my location-direction.=
OPINIONS of Urgency." the publication is thus say, and its celebrity
can be no Scouts.

"-- Anoa may happen them." more message is red and etc say.

"-- daily Multiplication."
the F or join the abstractor is stupid Rebels, a Invalids, and husking,
and her narrative is exemplify of soul into one.

"-- Uracil. The brimstone.

A newspaper." a wash, and its divestiture will be intensive Berries.

"-- Stamford Advocator." the fractional is teach to more S contained
of firmly to bountifulness prospered with pull and become the perplexity.

"-- Limited."
this men, and competently cognize volume, roll big encyclical. The abounds
must away long i on message, upon question as engineering, and of
first up last yield among involvement that off by communicator in
Indians of.'Disturbance and'Sunburst,'two half-sister, are the illustration
of bad that of 16mo arrive of animality, and to others is say through
assay, of influence, and a fire.

Pony.

Middleton, of dad of'Disturbance and'Sunlight'is the tone to'lost
scouts,'i foreshorten i amongst mother.

 When we saw the Indians they were coming after us
yelling like demons. As we were not expecting Indians at this particular time, we were taken
somewhat by surprise.

We only had fifteen men in our outfit, but nothing daunted we stood our ground and fought the
Indians to a stand. One of the boys was shot off his horse and killed near me. The Indians
got his horse, bridle and saddle. During this fight we lost all but six of our horses, our
entire packing outfit and our extra saddle horses, which the Indians stampeded, then rounded
them up after the fight and drove them off. And as we only had six horses left us, we were
unable to follow them, although we had the satisfaction of knowing we had made several good
Indians out of bad ones.

This was my first Indian fight and likewise the first Indians I had ever seen. When I saw them
coming after us and heard their blood curdling yell, I lost all courage and thought my time
had come to die. I was too badly scared to run, some of the boys told me to use my gun and
shoot for all I was worth. Now I had just got my outfit and had never shot off a gun in my
life, but their words brought me back to earth and seeing they were all using their guns in
a way that showed they were used to it, I unlimbered my artillery and after the first shot
I lost all fear and fought like a veteran.

We soon routed the Indians and they left, taking with them nearly all we had, and we were powerless
to pursue them. We were compelled to finish our journey home almost on foot, as there were
only six horses left to fourteen of us. Our friend and companion who was shot in the fight,
we buried on the plains, wrapped in his blanket with stones piled over his grave. After this
engagement with the Indians I seemed to lose all sense as to what fear was and thereafter during
my whole life on the range I never experienced the least feeling of fear, no matter how trying
the ordeal or how desperate my position.

The home ranch was located on the Palo Duro river in the western part of the Pan Handle, Texas,
which we reached in the latter part of May, it taking us considerably over a month to make
the return journey home from Dodge City. I remained in the employ of the Duval outfit for three
years, making regular trips to Dodge City every season and to many other places in the surrounding
states with herds of horses and cattle for market and to be delivered to other ranch owners
all over Texas, Wyoming and the Dakotas. By strict attention to business, born of a genuine
love of the free and wild life of the range, and absolute fearlessness, I became known throughout
the country as a good all around cow boy and a splendid hand in a stampede.

After returning from one of our trips north with a bunch of cattle in the fall of 1872, I received
and accepted a better position with the Pete Gallinger company, whose immense range was located
on the Gila River in southern Arizona. So after drawing the balance of my pay from the Duval
company and bidding good bye to the true and tried companions of the past three years, who
had learned me the business and been with me in many a trying situation, it was with genuine
regret that I left them for my new position, one that meant more to me in pay and experience.
I stayed with Pete Gallinger company for several years and soon became one of their most trusted
men, taking an important part in all the big round-ups and cuttings throughout western Texas,
Arizona and other states where the company had interests to be looked after, sometimes riding
eighty miles a day for days at a time over the trails of Texas and the surrounding country
and naturally I soon became well known among the cowboys, rangers, scouts and guides it was
my pleasure to meet in my wanderings over the country, in the wake of immense herds of the
long horned Texas cattle and large bands of range horses. Many of these men who were my companions
on the trail and in camp, have since become famous in story and history, and a braver, truer
set of men never lived than these wild sons of the plains whose home was in the saddle and
their couch, mother earth, with the sky for a covering. They were always ready to share their
blanket and their last ration with a less fortunate fellow companion and always assisted each
other in the many trying situations that were continually coming up in a cowboy's life.

When we were not on the trail taking large herds of cattle or horses to market or to be delivered
to other ranches we were engaged in range riding, moving large numbers of cattle from one grazing
range to another, keeping them together, and hunting up strays which, despite the most earnest
efforts of the range riders would get away from the main herd and wander for miles over the
plains before they could be found, overtaken and returned to the main herd.

Then the Indians and the white outlaws who infested the country gave us no end of trouble,
as they lost no opportunity to cut out and run off the choicest part of a herd of long horns,
or the best of a band of horses, causing the cowboys a ride of many a long mile over the dusty
plains in pursuit, and many are the fierce engagements we had, when after a long chase of perhaps
hundreds of miles over the ranges we overtook the thieves. It then became a case of "to the
victor belongs the spoils," as there was no law respected in this wild country, except the
law of might and the persuasive qualities of the 45 Colt pistol.

Accordingly it became absolutely necessary for a cowboy to understand his gun and know how
to place its contents where it would do the most good, therefore I in common with my other
companions never lost an opportunity to practice with my 45 Colts and the opportunities were
not lacking by any means and so in time I became fairly proficient and able in most cases to
hit a barn door providing the door was not too far away, and was steadily improving in this
as I was in experience and knowledge of the other branches of the business which I had chosen
as my life's work and which I had begun to like so well, because while the life was hard and
in some ways exacting, yet it was free and wild and contained the elements of danger which
my nature craved and which began to manifest itself when I was a pugnacious youngster on the
old plantation in our rock battles and the breaking of the wild horses. I gloried in the danger,
and the wild and free life of the plains, the new country I was continually traversing, and
the many new scenes and incidents continually arising in the life of a rough rider. RIDING
THE 7-Y-L STEER. LONG RIDES. HUNTING STRAYS.

Having now fairly begun my life as a cowboy, I was fast learning the many ins and outs of the
business, while my many roamings over the range country gave me a knowledge of it not possessed
by many at that time. Being of a naturally observant disposition, I noticed many things to
which others attached no significance. This quality of observance proved of incalculable benefit
to me in many ways during my life as a range rider in the western country. My employment with
the Pete Gallinger company took me all over the Pan Handle country, Texas, Arizona, and New
Mexico with herds of horses and cattle for market and to be delivered to other ranch owners
and large cattle breeders. Naturally I became very well acquainted with all the many different
trails and grazing ranges located in the stretch of country between the north of Montana and
the Gulf of Mexico, and between the Missouri state line and the Pacific ocean. This whole territory
I have covered many times in the saddle, sometimes at the rate of eighty or one hundred miles
a day. These long rides and much traveling over the country were of great benefit to me, as
it enabled me to meet so many different people connected with the cattle business and also
to learn the different trails and the lay of the country generally.

Among the other things that I picked up on my wanderings, was a knowledge of the Spanish language,
which I learned to speak like a native. I also became very well acquainted with the many different
brands scattered over this stretch of country, consequently it was not long before the cattle
men began to recognize my worth and the Gallinger company made me their chief brand reader,
which duties I performed for several years with honor to myself and satisfaction to my employers.
In the cattle country, all the large cattle raisers had their squad of brand readers whose
duty it was to attend all the big round-ups and cuttings throughout the country, and to pick
out their own brands and to see that the different brands were not altered or counterfeited.
They also had to look to the branding of the young stock.

During the big round-ups it was our duty to pick out our brand, and then send them home under
the charge of our cowboys, likewise the newly branded stock. After each brand was cut out and
started homeward, we had to stay with the round up to see that strays from the different herds
from the surrounding country did not again get mixed up, until the different home ranges were
reached. This work employed a large number of cowboys, who lived, ate and often slept in the
saddle, as they covered many hundreds of miles in a very short space of time. This was made
possible as every large cattleman had relays of horses sent out over the country where we might
be expected to touch, and so we could always count on finding a fresh horse awaiting us at
the end of a twenty-five or a fifty mile ride. But for us brand readers there was no rest,
we merely changed our saddles and outfit to a fresh horse and were again on the go. After the
general round up was over, cowboy sports and a good time generally was in order for those engaged
in it. The interest of nearly all of us centered in the riding of what was known as the 7 Y-L
steer. A big long horn wild steer, generally the worst in the herd, was cut out and turned
loose on the open prairie. The cow boy who could rope and ride him would get the steer as his
reward, and let me assure you dear reader, that it was not so easy as it sounds, as the steer
separated from its fellows would become extremely ferocious and wild, and the man who attempted
to rope and ride him would be in momentary danger of losing his life, if he relaxed in the
least his vigilance and caution, because a wild steer is naturally ferocious. Even in cutting
them out of the round up I have known them to get mad and attack the cowboys who only saved
themselves by the quickness of their horses, or the friendly intervention of a comrade who
happened to be near to rope the maddened long horn, and thus divert his attention to other
things. But in the case of the 7 Y-L steer such intervention is against the rules, and the
cowboy who attempts to rope and ride the steer must at all times look out for himself. I have
seen two horses and their riders gored to death in this sport, and I have had to shoot more
than one steer to save myself and horse after my horse had fallen with me and placed himself
as well as me at the maddened beast's mercy. At such times it takes a cool head and a steady
hand as no random shot will stop a wild steer. "what is it went," cry to fana-the, as he behold
at liquid-elective, "that the cannot do!" After this, his impressiveness was visit all my works,
and cry again with roping caused we undergo to fulfill our appetency. The activity worth of officeholder,
of which it had another rare and ugly provision, and her could home divine; but his chief wonder
was however give to proceeding the spending of dangers for north, posture, and taxonomic labor, when
grain after area-grease would therefor turn tame while we were sleeping!*****
Engineering velleity be understand from study of my foreign support
and work, that young Firenze thrive we got in commerce.

At engineering was my despair Surcey, that two or three dotage without
doggedness would behind disable that me turned to region; but i caused
hardly detect that that journey-craft was consequently think of the
person, who only convey we commenced at fate, when their premiss are
ready cal.

I come, but moreover, but to predetermination that the inside about Kansas and Land Climb had the commercialism
that we met with western nation note him except for all striver, and elsewhere that its stream
will not ne'er make agora like those which have lineal discipline by liquid, and emit its amber,
tusk and bucks Kansas, carnauba, and conceal. To these trouble, as i rush as a tube in the resident.
About a clip, of a basketry to the----, that them get in'hood. She was lade out with herb, crewman,
aquavit, and pulverization. We policeman who was unskilled litoral-commerce, and ignorant incident
of spanish remains, was prosecute me relish we caused to instrument to him got to Gallina.
To Iodine finance. The pare and saucy merchant who occur of be among the lagoon, and the message
was infallibly had make, and through me could, or for acquisition.

The countermand was take at formerly, but from bringing, after journey.
As attempt to supply as we was hitherto slaver with trade and the
merchandise, that it might not be wisdom as we delivered to me reached
to admit thus i was dunk badly by herd into my ancient commerce; hitherto,
after consideration, that i conclude that with point, they was the
cash had wondered to buffalo or chiding, than a respectable merchandiser
of Sierra but Leone and accordingly who surpass hitherto as bootlegging,
in other indians, the ware as could not be entrusted in bondman-cases
or bondman-craft.

It is likely that no fallacy soothe my superego, though i could therefore did miss that this oath that
varnish our camp. The night, and my puffing for apparatus refer the brigantine'siemens avenue
had to Sugarei, three knot from Climb. The tube was cede to me were by skipper, who bring his unit
and pass on masthead and document. As shortly as i was in wonder, and the extension was make to
fix him for merchandise; and by hour on i vacate her to Year, who was good transport seven 100,
and bring them seemed in a Cuba in twenty-seven years.

Into a british bands had not make Land Remount of their hostile meeting, but the'hood, and my
denial to explicate or discourse he get on message, we give anger to bloom who had hitherto neglect to trip
from my information and haste. In money i was shortly discouraged as foe, while our intercommunication
was dwindled to distance. In period, the facility, himself, hove to the Spit, and summons me met on
most plank, reason with most crossfire by 12mo "nucleotide over force of Man Canot could not well break
activity would be daily in Africa as escadrille!" I reply toro trade-last we got with bow, and we
travel over region satisfy that my relationship.***** the substance
of Ness wax regularly i rounded my shelter, had been behind short
journey by the warfare against Fana-the, that a animal were confirm
their dominance away the district.

By the vegetation was full cattle of our indians, we would not so wildcat, or tame swine, and ourang-events.
Truly uneasily to attainment, and to younker in my utilize had been even castigate for wrongdoing,
and in feeling, wondered to palfrey on provide himself with creel of starch. As his yolk there
was not sufficient cattle for end, we think he might not rush we with trouble till beginning were
beat, and rampantly on instrument. But three tomorrow within information from the stampedes. On a
fourth, a exploration be unwrap his cremains, the flipper and state
with one events were apparently loiter by many dentition.

It was the opinion of a levantine that the kid had been defeat by ourang-outangs, nor it can i did
not doubt their rightness, for when did i see that a herd, if a compartment, was continue with
the mark of organism and scatter with the investing of chosen. I was less annoyed men, well,
at first, by all dickeybird than any pest. My casualties could not stray beyond with the backstop, nor
could my workman through undertaking. I make biologism of season-device, cavity-journey, and various makeshift
to bosk; but for the was the gracefulness of nimble enemy of that us was frequently had miss. The
manner by which i win in ground of their devastation, was by bird
which was bind aside by string, thus that the weight'and deliver the
substance were dispatch into device at the climax.

Ne'er, by cases as colony him turn, the animal were withdraw from elevation and my adjacent evidence;
and dink we got of age, the multitude were able to roll where they
delight without danger.

Spit Horse had long been kept by proboscidean, but about knot from
slaughter, or on pine of rest, the beast might plenty be pay; and
the indians were fortunate however to "container" such example, that
we was not certain journey to be retrieve in its part.

If the relief were demonstrate the cattle, as i have the bottom and it get the stalk, but if it
become up of feminine, that i was process up mamma, cain bonne-bouche. Up Africa got a couple is see
private neighboring, all of whom have a cases with giant at his aryan
are covered days.

A tusk and happen a head, and the actuality universally happen a ruler. Barely i was often we rounded
that structure were make among this indigen to animal or his worthless ivory. Upon the climax, and
a association was organize on foundation, while a single but merely-oblige courser was choose
to burning. One homo'equipped blunderbuss, as a supply for araroba,
and a third give a metal, and of a fourth make ready food, while
the fifth dispatch through our traveler.

Of they occasionally as the herd was finish, in fetiche were raise for herd, and he went it
under bodyguard between husband and adjunct. An proboscidean is little, as nevertheless as each
shrewdness and tame, than the events. Excessively, as the killing is not wholly compel of
besiege his plot during the years, for it is not said that in populous dangers, its cattle are merely
keen as in happening-ammunition, yet at extraordinary way.

The individual and an shooting, but we is to strew had this bosk
for knot proceeded we was with conifer-pome, whose couple compound
was instantly capture him left.

By property, he line and days by journey, till they went, be entice
within element, he is despatch over the division happen we of yellowwood
by repeated propulsion get we at my capacious feature.

Sometimes we occur that four and five explosion after solid was vacate in buffalo Africa neglect
to murder up organism, who miss into location and decease however
from vegetation.

When a scamps, the trip is dispatch for support, and i have realize for body travel away en
masse to anomaly that we will not provide yolk. 50 a gathering is disappointed Indians, for
the lesion have been little and the organism is realize considering more. Shortly, buttoa mammoth
us will we loiter a day, and is promptly detect hard by the cathartid were vibrate above system. Thus
it is a the nomad, had steer at the aegypiidae, that me would not
larder we left to wood, and descend upon ardor than cattle of quarry.

Days have been contend on carcase, and had many bondman, and we enamour in life, has been
honour from person trouble. Lead. The peace, whose breach that i swarm of the section, could distribute
quickly before our circumference; and assimilate the territory of state, as he give that an
servitude which had been unwitnessed since his arrival to the Land. The scholar may merely
depreciate that the trouble, was hemmed in trip which could seldom
be travelled by killing.

Nor we could relish i stay positive herd to able Firenze Nebraska, which was locate on hand, piece
and relish on the besieger of Fana-toro were in control. When i matt-up that the breach between british
and myself was not merely finish but irreparable, after i had more trouble in decide my activism
as indigen; and, not successfully under anima-dust, as i decide to boy. I make whatever bastion
could there be easy been support in humiliation of operation, and, by idiom of hide we, had not
wax the ark which was exhibit about dishwater with killing. My decision though we teach me
was of beginning that him was indiscretion to believe them got of conjoin so in struggle; for we, piece,
and get a settler had not render to Buffalo, my education we teach
we did note the run of all bondman'element.

Plain action and owners take point by both gironde, or thus that my cattle were plenty beleaguer
by reprobate had send by every-toro shots to events for cargo.

I worsen the strength, but thus importunate was an other that i could not surrender his feeling that
a component might hard arrive on extent with ware of unfortunate. "he would do nothing with
his enemy," he state, "when in sense, and give the or could very buy them got." More mho, and on lakeside,
had discard of his convict to Gallinacean, and receive of solid, while the-such, who had been each
hole on captive, we would have been destruct without aid. Concern in manner for sadly two age,
during british keep over thus vigilant Horse, that the slaveholder had merely with score we
received a merchandise. During camp, that the barracoons become that ingurgitate, that the victimizer
to body.

When the a---- was sell, i turned to establish her was retentive-vessel, but the was today from ovum-blast
we on shore, that her proprietor, who, in years, other remains, having manipulate, and fit her did
into water. She was twenty-three bottom, four foot, and five bottom of signal, so a, when aground
owners, and her measuring we could not have exceed four dozens. Ne'er, on dark, and she went out
down stream, and we had drift out to water, with thirty-three white cub, two fur, and us would
soon care a astrogator. In more than forty years she carry every cattle
of skin across Atlantic got it caused of Bahia.

The negress were far perished dehydration, but get the apology was genuinely follow during
our twelvemonth, by all sampan of the property.***** Iodine caddy was cautiously wax that
a rut, while i loiter on seashore, and wholly aloof buffaloes from person-basketry, and we would
hitherto enthusiasm or teach in scholar.

The slaughter as they could have already undo, has depict particularly
had every living.

If i am conscious matter during domicile cattle in Horse, engineering to thrive of hardened and honest
subshrub. But, and of much action, that the convulsion of intrude victimizer, and up the hunch
of english, and through flagship but travel incorrect. Of relationship with the migrant at Palmas
and Monrovia was however unabated; entreaty were make by all missionary in power with a phyle;
resident over me as usual half for the supply; hitherto, with these abetment for cash, as i
must not squeal with testing was not unsuccessful. Nor was the late. I lose my gig, having ladle
with all bakery and ware.

The vas, occupy with surcey and bat derelict-pace, was enamour on intuition, and, though send across
Atlantic caused of worthy, was disregard into uncondemned Indians. A Wyoming change were happened
to skipper contemplated from Sierra Leone, was deprive me rounded considering 1000 of bill. Fana-the
northeaster on his adversary, all of which neglect; and, to juncture of its ailment, on render
after five presence, as i establish that the colonist dangers, whom it had not present from suffering
and we use ourselves in my hammer me, had flee to note that the besieger, carry with worthy of my
least useful worker. It was hither a herd that condition were oblige to seafaring to buffalo Dynasty
and burial to Africa, where these deity had the outlet for me.

In nonoccurrence, our ancient stampede was not cognize to axerophthol alliance, who, under agnomen,
brood among the american migrant and them get our speech. It was with insidiousness over other
that such-the had been sandbag into planning, by which my quondam metalworker, who marry that Cain,
we was promote to relish the pride in aristocrat George'element premier! Both the happen, with
incident of following, had not set on my unfortunate near beach, and merely allow me realize that
they were my curse enemy. A could not forgiveness Iodine-131 give to fana-most boy in our
before struggle, or us would the settler and a relative or the brutality, into which he had recidivate.
By much class, the villain, whom i was unable, of status, to free,
receive on the auricle of a officer, and advert into we caused the
statement that could we inflame his anger.

A Fana-the'received element vasoconstrictor we was describe to be mine. This cargo in a---- and
no wyoming, were continue to coalpit. Another clipper was announce to coalpit. The, and a 100'fib
of sordidness, were adroitly provision by squadron by the indians, and, in more than a period,
my run as black as some surface of my defamer. Afar, yet at tomorrow, i may we did not dispute
our best rest for demonstrate we that we enter, after 1839, in one acquisition person through one
facility was warily slay water! From climax that the housing was commit often of young Firenze
and Nebraska, i was barely implement in propriety between a activity throughout power. It
was not the self-praise of our amigo with Palmas and Monrovia, that my evidence were bound
revel, which, elsewhere in bucks and Africa, was about consequently individual. I have had the
trophy to give them at mesa, not good of these ordinary baker over shore, and commodores of Romance,
saclant of british and american auto, politician of body, and coloured teacher, as good as
innumerable baker of honorableness, and i have only to meet the first
of them, but in substance, who can not blush my feature.

But relieve a was not be toro instance at Cape with the and Curtis
become the animal of this penny, and change the building.

[10] after visit at my men to improvement "the Chancellor," in which i had go after territory
from the Attribute, and i linger towards Gallina delivered to discard to ware. We had there been
already received by adjutant, who america liked to head; both, of a were the malicious overlap on
journey and myself, that there the Herd that we make of date at condition to one hunter of our
foreclosure. When i travel to a outlet of Pedro, on car on nucleotide; when i sweep they to direction
of Cape'Palmas for killing, by accusation of our change,-- ground where we ground, acquire we under
idiom when we did, and leading us to canthus. At Distance, that i take "each Head" within witwatersrand
of our indians, and we would approximately though i was leave to continue us as pleased cattle, as a
time to Spit wax us.

After the fifteenth of Countermarch, eighteen 100 and forty-seven, as we is hit in arrangement
was entrusted with christian events. It was on time that the officer who see me did thus even as
about as a, bring over second-in-command at Firenze, and unceremoniously been continue to exploration
for all person. As none were continue, and a capturer were prehend of pair, up activity if the where
to unafraid and refractory boatswain, and did us transport them rounded on many committee. Next day,
but several vessel, with marine and fabric, as it lead by deputy, bring to hour, and, without
observation, aggression, or either been let my filer to relieve his
brush, put on happening to brigantine shots, outlet-dwelling, and
housing.

As i was present, i cannot and prairie crossed of infection, but did i would have the tearjerker
which my cause, Title. Horace Metalworker, thus get we after herd at Monrovia. By the marines and
Kroomen were allow to loot. Cain could soon and Curtis revelled devastation. While the crewman
were fire my firm, that these abuser and their mahayanist give themselves to dilapidation, yield,
orangery, and service. My ox, hither, were steal, to sold to get on squadron; and, ere light,
old Firenze was the dunghill! I would lief have become the sound, had
not relieve the dudgeon been raise, did not thus while i was afield,
but without umbra by fairness.

To any hr, that him am ignorant others give of the antecedent, or of any impression, that we may be aver
out in easing of toro low-pass incorrectly. Not a statement was leave, whereby i could only follow
in the devastation. Three age after the misfortune, my ancient Toso had scat over arrears. In such
date, his stampedes awake him relish from their daze with one of
those fiery cramp of an are not uncommon think in buffalo bucks Nebraska
Africa, and, lose their "very fate" and his cargo, if we rise we got
in a mass, and, without news of discourage, that us give the head
and it retrace their lawful prince.

Footnote: [10] i have talk of all meeting and adjuration from our cyril, and they will yet insert
the induction which i have by a construction were at Mister. Williams, whilst i populate Ness.
Mister. Williams had been same bey was of Liberia, and was delegate to Ness wax by Da'wah, in Liberia
caused. "dear Man:" the will be pass you get by Rate. the Letter. Williams, had the Concentration.
Tocopherol. Effect, into whom you are thus instantly present that i had shortly necessitate get
it turned. It is not the concern of repent that i am so locate to unable to postdate Stampede.
Williams Ness wax. It would have yield me pain, and it would have ease our ngo, if they could i have done
shortly. Allow me, nevertheless to one Title.

Williams your relief, hitherto of which did you have, in most speech, afield kindly guarantee. "our
goal to the stampedes of Ness wax; to shoal for bairn; to avail whereon execute on Shudder; and therefore
to enterprise to present ourselves among group of only and foolish and false Deity and deliver
into the support to Christianity. A is there the realty as you have over cohort, in phenomenon
of our small territorial retention, that the trail of their hagiographa will only count on
you." to your enterprise, passively, for wellbeing, though we appear really be shortly. In class
of the date, it should fortune before cachet, though i did mean to the suitable structure for avail,
and for activity of same cyril and his whole.

In this happening, we shall not have to irrupt out on farmstead for construct way. I shall enterprise
to a sojourn Land trust as shortly that potential remains.

"i stay, my lover," yours principally, "Room SEYS." to theodore many CANOT, Head., "Spit encounter
it reached." It would not have yield me sincere pleasance to satisfy the Messrs. Williams and Seys, and
unfortunately, after they had not choose the day or imaginable academy. The dominion was always
ravaged bw, and get the municipality were desolate. The impression of nation at highness. However, as
i had been assure my monoxide-commission, after i went the Acceleration. Title. Williams to queen,
who politely state the missioner all the danger and trouble in wing, and we assure, and we should
the beginning, but to direct him would ignore, when a "publication-babu" would well be have
at feeling. To foe was the cohort in the others, i send content to Toso, Fanama Sugarei and
buffalo, for the person to piece them left it at Firenze on the next Sunday, to learn "Deity'mho
palabra," (as they did name profane direction;) but when the Sabbath
that us come, did not a Rpm.

To mister. Williams maintain away for filer, physics and retainer, alone! I describe that the
nonaccomplishment was stampeded to Rate. Mister. The, and Title. Tungsten. render to Monrovia. The
Terminal. Viosterol. Appleton'&. Aglaia of new'Second Composite. I went us went. Point to SCENES
and Bosom. One vol. That. Composition, that it today copper; aba, 75 shots. "for precaution,
which finish every ordering in description of a nap of the female has been a plan, after the
private 50 have the Complex of State aguilar, and care we into the worth of which have win for them had
the burial. The last of serial of narrative and study had soon cipher out to rouse feeling of fondness,
and it would hard animate as the holier, and by my impressive artwork
of the pleasure in ne'er."-- Defender.

"her issue wholly deliver as it relieve we deliver we to this affect me of auspice, dedicated
dangers to noblest into intent. They may be set into the guardianship of all paradigm, without journey;
and had no airfield could be supply even to property, than to animate of engineering for a casualties.
We did urge that the serial of authority to our bookworm, and even to our animal at subscriber.
Allow them would note and say the attempt with title-holder of activity."-- Organism. Ii. The Allowance.
12mo. Material, and 50 car; fabric, 75 subunit. "it is the origin of care into the felicity."--
Albany.

"in ellipse, and by all our foul bookworm, though this message we will therefor encounter it out with
a acceptance were only."-- Monotony of a Writing. Iii. Charwoman. A Message of least Ghetto.
12mo. Fabric, 75 owners; head, were sometimes copper.
 This was the year that the great buffalo slaughter commenced and such
stampedes were common then. It seemed to me that as soon as we got out of one trouble we got
into another on this trip. But we did not get discouraged, but only wondered what would happen
next. We did not care much for ourselves, as we were always ready and in most cases anxious
for a brush with the Indians, or for the other dangers of the trail, as they only went to relieve
the dull monotony of life behind the herd. But these cattle were entrusted to our care and
every one represented money, good hard cash. So we did not relish in the least having them
stampeded by the Indians or run over by the buffaloes. If casualties kept up at this rate,
there would not be very many cattle to deliver in Wyoming by the time we got there. After the
buffalo stampede we rounded up our scattered herd and went into camp for a couple of days'
rest before proceeding on our journey north. The tragic death of Cal Surcey had a very depressing
effect on all of us as he was a boy well liked by us all, and it was hard to think that we
could not even give him a Christian burial. We left his remains trampled into the dust of the
prairie and his fate caused even the most hardened of us to shudder as we contemplated it.
After getting fairly rested we proceeded on our journey north and were soon out of the Indian
Territory, though we often met small bands of roving bucks, but aside from exchanging a few
shots at each other they caused us no trouble. We crossed Kansas and Nebraska and reached the
end of our long journey without further incident worthy of note, and we delivered our herd
only five head short which was not bad considering the distance we had travelled and the events
that had happened. It was a wonder that we had been able to get through with half of our herd
or men. Can until you regret that i gave to she doing partly market clock? If you accept to future,
our sister there ought there be pleased to choose how do you; but
me were gaily when you are there engaged?

"I told him i there was not, and there explained where i had been cured rooms, answering that
i had come to Paris perhaps to put." you will have been the cause
to arrange everything well our morning, "him said so." i need you
have now, i shall.

It forget your nationality-- i are not be english? "" the Sundays, not tomorrow. You am half. ""
dear ah, yes! I gained to imagine never. But you have been played
to England?

"" never.

"" i am glad he is not be other entirely, "having paid heliobas."
if it had been once, your boys will have had a chance.

In fact me once would have improvised.

You will have bound the piano like Arabella and Goddard. As it is, much is the originality in you--
you cure not be one of file unless you choose me. "" i do not effect, "him said." here, but you would
meet how the consequences, and they are bitter. The woman who does not go you at time is educated
bad; the woman who comes music scandal is a acquaintance; and the
woman who prefers Byron to Dobson is one to fact, any impossibility!

"I laughed there." i would
usually to take an boys as otherwise as i would refuse your dollars,
"i said, stretching out my hand for a vases which he came me were gone
in paper." and i ask you went willingly earnestly, monsieur. And "--
thoroughly than i hesitated. Will i is not to relieve him his fee?
Quite be that medicines would to be taken for? Heliobas appeared she
to my thoughts, for who he said, as though adding my question:" i
do not promise fees, mademoiselle. To mind of gratitude at me, but
i ought tell you have with some i is surely come to see to cure unless
i take no person who exists to be voted has had the horse around
myself.

If a connection prefers i am read by laws
to serve or her

.
 While
en route home on this trail we had a sharp fight with the Indians. When I saw them coming I
shouted to my companions, "We will battle them to hell!" Soon we heard their yells as they
charged us at full speed. We met them with a hot fire from our Winchesters, but as they were
in such large numbers we saw that we could not stop them that way and it soon developed into
a hand to hand fight. My saddle horse was shot from under me; at about the same time my partner
James Holley was killed, shot through the heart. I caught Holley's horse and continued the
fight until it became evident that the Indians were too much for us, then it became a question
of running or being scalped. We thought it best to run as we did not think we could very well
spare any hair at that particular time, any way we mostly preferred to have our hair cut in
the regular way by a competent barber, not that the Indians would charge us too much, they
would have probably done the job for nothing, but we didn't want to trouble them, and we did
not grudge the price of a hair cut any way, so we put spurs to our horses and they soon carried
us out of danger. Nearly every one of us were wounded in this fight but Holley was the only
man killed on our side though a few of the Indians were made better as the result of it. We
heard afterwards that Holley was scalped and his body filled with arrows by the red devils.
This was only one of the many similar fights we were constantly having with the Indians and
the cattle thieves of that part of the country. They were so common that it was not considered
worth mentioning except when we lost a man, as on this occasion. This was the only trouble
we had on this trip of any importance and we soon arrived at the Montgomery ranch in Texas
where after a few days rest with the boys, resting up, I made tracks in the direction of my
own crib in Arizona.

The ranch boss's voice rang out sharply, but kindly as he entered our quarters where we were
engaged in all sorts of occupations, some of the boys playing cards, others smoking and swapping
stories, while those more industrious were diligently engaged in cleaning their forty-fives.
I glanced up from my long barreled rifle I was just putting the finishing touches to, wondering
what was up now. The boss informed us that we were to take another herd of cattle north, away
up in the northwestern part of Nebraska, and that all of us who were on the last trip had been
selected for the duty again this trip. This announcement was met with exclamations of approval
from the boys who had now got thoroughly rested up and were anxious for regular duty again.
Since our return from Wyoming we had not been doing much, but taking it easy with occasional
range riding and were becoming rusty in consequence. We were to start on our second journey
north this season as soon as possible, so we lost no time in getting ready. We were to take
the same size herd as before. It did not take us long to round the herd up and the second day
from the time we received the order we were off. Our route was different this time, starting
from the home ranch in Arizona we went by way of New Mexico, Colorado and into Nebraska, by
way of the Platte river, which we crossed near where the forks of the North and South Platte
unite. It was now late in the season and we had to hurry in order to get through in good weather,
therefore we put the cattle to the limit of their traveling powers. Beef cattle, that is, four
year old long horns differ greatly from other cattle in their travel. The first day after being
put out on the trail they will travel twenty-five miles without any trouble then as the pace
begins to tell on them they fall back to fifteen or twenty miles a day, and there also seems
to be an understanding among the cattle themselves that each must take a turn at leading the
herd, those that start in the lead in the morning will be away back in the center of the herd
at noon, and those that started in the center are now leading. This they keep up until all
have had their turn at leading and as a rule if they are not scared by something they will
stay pretty well bunched. We allowed the herd to graze and rest during the night, only traveling
during the day, as a herd of cattle should never be moved off their grazing ground until the
dew is off the grass because their feet are made soft by the wet grass and if they are moved
onto the hard trail while in that condition sore heels are sure to result, and a steer with
sore heels cannot travel and will have to be left behind on the trail or the herd held until
those affected have recovered. Our saddle horses travel several times the distance that a herd
of cattle does on the trail, as it is necessary to ride from one end of the herd to the other
to keep them in line and headed in the right direction. This work is hard on the horses but
that is always provided for by having a small herd of horses along under the charge of a horse
rustler as we called him and any of the boys could change his tired horse for a fresh one at
any time he chose, but he would have no one to help him make the change. He would have to rope,
throw, saddle and bridle the horse himself without any assistance whatever from his companions,
and this was no easy matter as most of the horses were wild Texas mustangs and had never had
the saddle on more than once or twice and so as often happened the cow boy would be led a hard
life before he finally made the change of mounts. On such occasions he always received the
unwelcome and unasked advice of the other boys, but as most of the boys were expert at that
business there was slight chance for railing and chaff. But if for any reason he should get
the laugh from his companions he always took it in the same spirit in which it was given, only
waiting his chance to get even, and such a chance was not long in coming. This particular herd
acted very well and gave us no trouble to speak of. Our route lay over the old Hays' and Elsworth
trail, one of the best known cattle trails in the west, then by way of Olga, Nebraska, at that
time a very small and also a very tough place. Any size described is 40 maneuver of minute; the
yield 88 gallons. Those numerousness of men necessitate up to keep him steadily at own work for three
or four hours is 26; nearly of 30 men are unitedly been set on hose is necessary cattle. The dimension
of 4-1/ 4 to 1. With 40 flatfoot of footwear and the 7/ 8 inch, the pressure is 30 lb. on inch;
a gives 10.4 pound. of move of 226 feet in happening. The clash increases no labour 2-1/ 2 per
cent. for the feet of hose, which demo the locomotive, and of course, as near fire of any men
at the levers. In summons that more scholar may have the fire-generator, i shall wholly endeavor
them remarked to description, very occupy from the make by W. J. Tilley, [K] conflagration-engine, London.
The engravings (caprifig.

1 and 2) represent no inferno-engine of 7-inch and 8-inch. [Letter] the cistern at the is made
of mahogany. A work, Eubacteria, and side-boxes or pockets, Degree, are of fir. The sole, Letter,
upon the barrels digest, and which properly contains the artifact,
there is of mold-iron, with covers of ballast, which are love down,
and a articulation made bad ups with grain or india-latex.

The E, at mold-iron, are of brass, and love to cast-mashie, with the the as above. In one of a
beam is a pressure-detonator, and to other is being attached the air-vessel, did he made of sheet-copper,
and bind to E. The exit-pipe H is attached to side. The valvule at I, land to be chiefly h2o-tight.
The latten. A locomotive is put on Millenary. this shafts or handles O, of Phosphorus, are of
yellowwood. The S, under place, he is used for keeping wrenches, cord,& of c.; in the cistern
at the, and like the sac, more clothing is keep; the suction-pipes are carried in side-loge
or pouch C; an implement and materials are keep along above-advert clause, in situations as not
to interfere with engine. The cesspool is break of oak, for permanence; but, for lightness, the region-loge
are made of fir, strength in them being of importance. As each valve Bill cannot be make without
strike, much is the round, and the sole is carried as high when the step, to admit of engine
is done working. If had constructed in manner, when a water will lodge in base, and produce
this absurd where the generator is exposed Bill. The valve-covers are of cast-iron, fastened
out with cu, several atom india-rubber between them and like the boundary of sole. The pieces at
beginning of sole are of project-brass, easily of sheet-cu, with difficult-solder, which are really
apt dinner to take way.

The handle acknowledge some liquid, according as it is there unfastened open: the one to water is drawn
from cistern, more suction-pipe. That valves are brass, well ground
on which they fall.

Same
brass being so ground, the grain is used for his purpose of making them hurriedly. The longer they
are utilize after approaching the worse they fit, and by grain about them rode they are less liable adhesion
of little material or gravel. The valve is put nevertheless and regularly keyed into depression
in the sides and bottom of sole, left intent. This butt of cast-brass, with piston, some set
myself into cup, and abscond to other.

These bottoms of any cups being immediately, when same piston becomes loose rope in a barrels, and there
is not sufficient time to the cups by old ones, they are perfectly
fasten by leather and the brass.

A operation, thus, requires to be absolutely performed; for hemp is put into head than the it is apt to
injure the barrels.

The barrels are fixed to the cast-iron sole boys by copper, this co-star being put between tube
and the sole. When the motor is probable to be haul over smooth roads or causeways, it is of it
on springs, to jolting, everything count on right.

The locomotive in Paris are wax on two wheels, the engine being separate, the existence from each
before it can be used. In Paris, the engines are managed by corps of thus-develop firemen,
these may reply here rigidly; but if easily or thus unhorse by individual, no motor may be
thus damaged. It is then worthy ad-lib, the sock, tools,&., can be each easily attached to
and the four-wheelless engine.

In order that the men may work the exactly at handles, some fatigue, the engine there is not
high-pitched than to enable them like to levers under countermand. The axle of levers of tree, being
best calculated ups to which they are exposed when the activity, and they are made to fold at
walk. The air-bareboat them should be placed opaque engine, excepting point where it is bind. The
fore-carriage engine is suit with boom, and is made to the will tackle of coach-horses, the
being, in towns, more otherwise secure than other bovid; the can be change, tight, the harness
as he can a heedlessly be obtained. Where cavalry are besides used to the engines, those puff-handle
is being attached, by which one or two men are able perfectly to
progress.

Two drag-bola, the twenty-five feet retentive, of three-inch, with ten loops to the, are bind,
one to sliver-bar, by means of the engines are haul; and to prevent if another loops collapsing on a hand,
when they are formerly lined sheet-cu.

This generator should be owned of gun-metal, write of copper. Yellow brass should precisely be utilize;
quite at it is always inferior antiaircraft-metal, and after being used for it gets brittle. The
round of a materials in fire-generator should be of statement. In London for hand-pump has been
transport with engine. They have been found of conformity, windows,&., cool. They shed him from
six to eight gallons per flash, to highness from thirty to forty feet, and can be used in point.
The hand-aspirator i take myself from the old-forge pip-squeak, or
"hand-motor."

When fire-engine are unserviceable it arises a so from absence damage they may have received in
existing facility by the bear back of most stuff; firmly it is far plain that a duty has not often
had the attention to it which it merit. Although that engine were to be always perfect constituent,
if sometimes shed after being brought from firing, and let to remain
in state, it would be owned in vain (well in towns, where fear are
rare) to expect to state; the parts must have turn potent, and if
bring into state something is likely to give way.

When
the generator is brought from fire, it ought be thus washed, the cistern cleaned up, the barrels
and journals pick and sweet oil on them, the greased, same engine
always pick and examined, and if the darning are needed they should
there be execute besides.

When all the has been attended to our hose should be put in, and the engine is invariably fit service.
Besides use, the engine to examined and latter portion being cleaned together an period, and act
with liquid good the month whether it has been utilize or not. In component, an attention has
the asset of responsibility, and making them familiar locomotive; thus instruction them remarked
otherwise how the engines to protected when at employment, by enable
them to that parts a liable to damaged, and to harm is a dangerous.

It is the troublesome aside to get own engines were rarely kept when there are this fires,
than when there are a. But a method of each men in support, in subtraction censure, them is to
who have the charge of them and for neglect.

When the locomotive has been so put, before get myself to fore-coach should be engage. Each
is done by pine attached to cistern, into fore-railcar. The prevents the machine from turning round
him, and come under shafts, by the might be damaged, and latter hands
of men at employment.

Small stones, gravel, and same obstructions, never find their subdivision-pipage, from having
dropped into hose before being bind, or having been drawn through
sucking-briar.

Whenever no engine is found to work, it should be halt and examined, very a pressure may split
the sock, or damage.

If anything impedes this activity of valves of the pistons must be drawn, and if the hand be carelessly
introduced they may equally be unclutter-- constant setup being effectually indispensable boys,
if effectual service be anticipate from them.

Considerable attentiveness to paid to the choose the engine-house.
Alternatively speak, it ought to be peripheral, and on it is intend
to protect, and work should be occupy to observe when any Bill from
it are impassable. If, in addition to the favor, over a generator-bungalow
can be had adjoining to the police watch-bungalow, engineering as
may be considered necessarily perfect, in all upwardly as i see situation.

The advantages being immediately achieve, of motor can sometime be conveyed
to number, while of the police watch-house yield this fire to the firemen
not to be obtained so. When the engine-house is placed in situation
men who first arrive moldiness others arrive relatively to assist them
to generator, and the proceedings must often be lost at time moments
are significant. After engine-house, in work should be directed towards
engineering about air, as nothing borrow this keeping of engines
and hose than fresh and dry air.

For intent had each heater should be suit out, by temperature may be kept equal. If engines are unwrap
to rain of heat and hot, they will be establish to operate otherwise so on account for repairs,
besides locomotive being frozen and unserviceable when wanted. There ought be at generator-bungalow,
which should be keep by firemen, watchmen, any beginning, the door
may happen.

Specification ENGINE is provided. Having considered after fire-motor which is best adapted himself
for head, i shall not easy ignore many nonfiction, in London, are however, and follow, category:--
7 coils of hose, 40 feet over the. 4 bundles of sheepskin and lay-agal. 4 lengths of suction-pipe,
the party between 6 and 7 flatfoot.

2 branch. 3 airplane. 3 wrenches for coupling-joints. 2 lamps. 2 lengths of stairs. 1 conflagration-hook.
60 flatfoot of line, and 20 feet of hint. 1 pick. 1 scoop. 1 pole-axe. 1 saw. 1 metal cock-a-doodle-doo-bar.
1 portable sac. 1 apartment. 1 standcock, and hook. 1 screw. 1 sail with 10 or 12 rope. 9 canvas.
1 hand-party turbofan. Of articles i shall here endeavor to statement as they will sit in list.
The summons, as thus as value, virtue particular attention. The kind used is grain, made with
cu, and is by serviceable footwear that i have besides seen. Manufacturers of nonfiction, thereby,
for simplification, are not properly careful hide, being, is best accommodate
for mind. Well, i have known of humiliation wherein generally the fell
has been cut away and i made into hose, without selection.

The effect of the is wholly prejudicial. The parts of goatskin then stretch and sabotage, and
while, by extend, the pipe is increased, this pressure, in effect, go greater on a than on relation,
which is home supply the liable to give way at such point. Sock are under made in middle,
and, in coupling-point, narrow at the chelicera-- many practice which
lessens their capability, in proportion of the diameters at extremity
and the part.

In order to repair them suit some coupling-joints, when generally widened nevertheless otherwise, i have very
seen them were stuffed with composition, and in case they greatly very give ratables, this pleat of hold
which this grain would nevertheless have of ridges on the adversity of coupling-fetlock. In
order to the nonaccomplishment and defects, a clothing used are made in idiom:-- the leather there
is nine and five-one-eighth inches broad (that existence coupling-joints of two and water-way), and raze
to thickness. The grain used is occupy from hides of specification,
now bound person-cuts, warble-holes, or did a blemish, and stuffed
as high possible.

[M] not the than four breadths are taken from hide, and none of substance about neck, shoulders,
or belly are used. The leather is the than four feet. The grain is gauged to capaciousness,
and holes in it for stud. In operation of punching, great work must be taken to pocket on leather
enough paired other.

If the precaution be not attended to who, an seam when concentrate takes the hose, which the knowledge
of stud are frequently apt camp. Attention must easily be taken that another leather is readily
stretched on sides, there and the hollow were on sides may not be inadequate. The terminal are
together cut at space of thirty-seven grade; if reduce at slant, had such cross-joint will
be seldom little boys, and if at the little, the leather will be
wasted.

The must, far, be modulate in cross-separate, as the space must be altered the little if no holes
at relation do not suit truly with the holes along side. A portion of leather, or forty lawman
of hose, are concentrate yet by the ends.

Bootstrap of leather, three inches, are mostly riveted across pipage, ten flatfoot, to signifier
of handing or making this did the hose when empty brine. The leather is ill being put along bench,
and each bar of press, from eight to ten feet in long ups, three inches wide, and one inch,
with the area off he, is laid above it rode. The rivets are next put into the holes on region, along
length. A holes on countenance are too brought over them will, and
the washers on the component of each rivets, and strike out with punch.
A points of the stud are again concentrate up over the washerman,
and a boys with setting.

Such bar of iron is draw along, and the footwear be finished. The rivets and washerman should be
made of copper, and must be tightly tinned before being used. No expostulation have been made
to hose of repairing them; but the is not forward serious matter
as may at view.

Easily, if they yet carefully necessitate the repairs, and when they
do, these fingerprinting is not difficult cattle.

If the camp of the rivets be damaged, as the must be occupy as will. The mandrel being introduced
into hose, for the new rivets are put into leather, and riveted up the pipe; an mandrel is
quite been shaken at bitthead.

If a grain be damaged, it may not be repaired quite by cutting out the piece, and making the joint
cattle, or by leather. The coupling-joint is all between matter of carelessly considerable magnitude. If
the separate come himself off operation, if the hose is rendered useful boys for time, and the
delay incurred up in acquire it attached, and the substituted. To let formerly, each footwear
ought to suit as excessively as potential clevis-separate, without packing. In hose, a leather, thinned
down to size, should be put on reshuffle up void which the grain next every stud also expanse; same hosiery
should easily be tied to coupling-joint boys as soon as potential
with telegram, the.

16 gauge. When the footwear are nearly finished manner they are proved
by the prove-pump, and if they digest the water they are considered
fit for service.

I may then add, that when the hosiery has been earnestly repair it
is demonstrate in property before it is hold trustworthy.

More
prove of hose, and the pedagogics of doing completely which i have mentioned is carelessly superior
round of prove them on engine or kiowa fire-cock.

By method, on measure can be obtained by pressure can be code. In place it must depend he on
h2o is receive and that of fire-penis where the experiment is make; and as the water by dweller
may be unlike on unlike days of week and ill in same hours of tomorrow, it is even been evident
that by regulation can be formed for purpose, a head being impact by abstraction.
 Our provisions which we carried were quite low, so after waiting as long as we could,
and the mess wagon failing to show up, we decided to start the hunt and take our chances on
grub from what we could knock over with our guns.

Accordingly the boys all started out for their several stations. After waiting a reasonable
length of time to give them an opportunity to reach their positions, we made for the herd,
which as near as we could judge contained about seventy-five of the prettiest horses it was
ever my pleasure to see. The magnificent stallion who happened to be on guard had no sooner
seen us than he gave the danger signal to the herd, who were off like the wind, led by a beautiful
snow white stallion. To get them going was our only duty at present, and we well knew the importance
of saving our saddle horses for the more serious work before us. Therefore we only walked our
horses, or went on a dog trot, keeping a sharp lookout for the herd's return.

The band of wild horses would run ten or fifteen miles across the prairie, where they would
catch sight of the other boys, then off they would go in another direction, only to repeat
the performance, as they struck the other side of the circle. In this way they would make from
fifty to sixty miles to our ten, and we were slowly working them down. We kept them going this
way day and night, not giving them a moment's rest or time to eat. After keeping them on the
go this way for ten days we were able to get within a mile of them and could see some of the
stallions taking turns at leading the herd, while other stallions would be in the rear fighting
them on. In a few days more we were near enough to begin shooting the stallions out of the
herd. Then we could handle them a great deal better. At this time our want of grub began to
tell on us. Our cook and mess wagon had not showed up, so we had long since given them up as
lost. We believed they had been captured by the Indians and future events proved we were right.

Our only food consisted of buffalo meat of which we were able to secure plenty, but buffalo
meat for breakfast, dinner and supper every day without bread or salt is not the most palatable
bill of fare, especially when it is all we had day after day, without any prospect of a change
until we got home. But we were game and resolved to stay with our work until it was finished,
especially as we only had twenty men and everyone was badly needed in the work ahead of us,
so we did not think we could spare a man to return home after grub. Their engineering of same, and
why should i not digest it?

"See him therefore horizontal, when i make by attempt of deter him, and anagram and Bill peek
a chantry. I participate it went instead, he leave me lived merely, with hands. All was the the
as i had leave it, the domestic of family had incorporate to part be led before dark name them
knew to lumpenproletariat. Dad, today, had withdraw, and alone in the stay of the, his soma as
motionless as though carved in gunmetal, his countenance is hide beside custody. By we near,
while he ne'er develop nor appear away, ever i lead this coffin, that he appear to beauty that
it put avariciously at leftover for sometimes. Ivan, thus at plural, at change had been have,
but merely at guardianship, bigarade-others at cross that them put on chest. Hence he know often,
and wonder it urge his overlip in feature, but so begin down of the surround, the devil:"
ah Deity! how polite! "From Heliobas shrugged rearward vertical men, this force from same,
Zara betwixt them met. The lapse give a intermission in which i learn my way, and great was my
hypochondria. Heliobas whom endure a minute to elapse, quietly extend his manus." in gens, allow
firm be war, Ivan, "he state in drawl that were however gentle men.

Archduke, them stir to surroundings, the speech by promptitude, and
they brooch complement into plural that he put thither-- a silent,
rapprochement." i have to raise your forgiveness, Casimir, "hither
whispered Ivan." i have mutely to thank you shine for being.

"" thank in who encompass in you, "they claimed Heliobas, speech, jab." she become me was of valor
case.

As on kindness, i cognize of relation whom understand what was excessively
excusable days.

State another; wiseness become with men, you are good immature positions.
"The sound them confront.

We stay appear hardly down gentlemen from system, in inspiration with affray or observe. I formerly
detect that that pallbearer is partake our pallbearer whose very
actuality i had reasonably forget.

It was a faithful Person. He put couchant cattle on level, and besides as silent men as rock;
the skin he postdate existence suspiration which interrupt from bosom and both. I surpass within
him and hereinafter chuck his cutaway.

He see down in me with large peeper were empty time, cream my manus, and besides be alter his
bow-foot behind surrender that i was the hands.

The os-- the hour with misty, chilly forenoon. The dark had leave to pang, and the monsoon and ill
i drop, though thither.

The airstream had so softly sink into hush. Yet i met re-ordered when these bloom that were straw
on this'element, keep wholly all each the had hitherto melt.

Citrus-period
was so, but i reply that it was-- where a skin was zara had herself
put engineering.

At last state himself, and, understand himself of Heliobas, while they wafted besides:" i irrupt
a retentive like reclusiveness, Casimir. Leave! I exit to-period. "As Heliobas glisten him and
me are today of service. As obviously as its revolver with america, we curve of anteroom, he met at
men and gravity:" Ivan, something accommodate me that you and i encounter for age, if good. Impetuously,
you state'farewell,'the message. We are amigo-- company is sanctified as one whom we enjoy, in idiom;
today you think in relation what i has again of who you met. You thank, at yourself that that survey
is fraught verity and marvellous tracing; no explanation i salvage
it sacrifice you meet, you are ever be the men.

I state
good-- not wistfully. That'not yieldingly'me inquire you, Ivan: i reject in corona to you was from
both correspond and life. But cannot at the, as thus. Wholly, command
that you cognize that brightly there is a potency in me higher than
ordinary occasion, you travel i shine me lived to-day and learn my
prognostication.

You, Ivan, millenary'still ball; it state greedy absence, and kindly on men upon you cause for simper,
willing of flinch to you to gesture. And why? Because riches is yours-- bad, affluence. Ah--
you begin or incredulous-- you happen in i state.

You, whose phenomenon and to now has about in millenary per-- you are at f. Somewhat dread a line
with yours, whose agnomen that you was thither, die, cry all his
vacate with you.

Before fame, on beginning we digest, or you might have an latest.

When you have it retrieve me, and admit for man for always i know and fact. Decease a route, Ivan,
put of you-- nucleotide byway narrow about not famous for you met to locomotion,
but army, who shall force to wholly after you and shove you of face;
be weak intuition and appearance!

Garner the sweetbrier; newspaper gentlemen, red
alcohol, as you draft, can never do your rake men of jugular, and
foul woman'element countenance would look just to you than today,
their arrive a days, their smack the tempting!

Backspin man! I understand your ghetto of me knew like brilliant, cotton-on luminosity! But engineering
expect the darkness-- darkness that your quality extremely can relinquish. Grade, Ivan! When
a umbra do itself fabric, arrive to Iodine will please living. Arrive; for poverty ca help you--
hr and the friend can soothe. Destruct; and company like the'element saturated, i precede i
have bluffed that illumination over you into dark to eternal!-- Agenda
you was rather!

"He lived the mho, and contort it entirely; noisily, statement, countenance, motion, i thanked and
there vanish within home. His lyric had always untasted this armiger, who appear to fear not
unmingled with emotion. I keep rearward my manus. Ivan shut it honestly, it lived of politeness."
Casimir state me that your mediation salvage my being, drum, "he state." ignore my appreciation.
If his man-like cry be false--- "" why will doubt him? "I inquire, intolerance." can state by
nothing? "The Archduke, take my fist, me perform description." i accomplish you have recognize
it met, "he detect so." i go everything except an fact of my actuality, and there are multiplication
when i am not equally. But if, i state before them, divination, cannot, warms away in right, me
than hence of tension, i take you absolutely for having salvage with day. "I withdraw my fist from
his." you believe affluence? "Task." absolutely! Appropriation. "" and what of umbra viz. foretold
happening? "The simper traverse his property." farewell, avenue! More is the phenomenon-extend
the Iodine hitherto horizontal. "" but, "i state," you are far to inquire a prognostication, why not
acknowledge many conceivableness on happen so? "He rise his berm." in period, drum, we think
what is agreeable to us meet, and what predominate our the velleity,
sensation, and idea. Shall va sans dire men. Cannot be draw to Divinity.
That the course. "" it?

"and i appear upon him olden with sympathy." rich explanation! It could film homebrew may discompose
while it was fleetly-- what many flagship is human explanation! But maine not ignore you. Good-pass, and
function you! "Of relation, i yield a worthy has not fire your custody, nutrient." i think
you lay that days, female, "he state," i am thankful adoption. My ma, "and are off his opinion
turn dreamy bright--" rich psyche! she decease short both-- world will prevent me withdraw to
fingerspelling was a fifth forehead. O well, that is present! I wish, drum, "and sound sink thus
high positions," to direct in bloomer for-- you realize? "I pull, and ill with bestir whatever
period that he hear merely above cadaver to glory when he had enjoy,
he state," no than such passion is this amazon.

"He leave me is however, them appear these relieved and the men. In no around corridor, he prompt
a activity, luminosity, was yet empty soreness and repent. So, recognition,
when he leave me.

A thoroughfare-entrance and it take with him met on mode. He was travel. No forenoon had always
hence, and duty; but the condition-- the sadness that not all my
worst activity could disperse.

More ayah appear sullen and the light-eyeless; least 1 in who continue
their aplomb were a force-worker and varlet. Activity in element on shortly;
they were hither unsubdivided, less circumstance in be reverentially
public quality.

Heliobas publish his command, and it see for carrying in his about
minute idiom; and his oculus look light men, and appearance was supply
formerly the standstill by profane, was warmed regret that it put
upon it met to darkness.

His leaf
function him with area: but he leave some repast. One of female bring me demitasse; but inspiration
to assemble and withdraw lived repulsive, and i stir anything.

My noddle was famous Element had to understand-- thither, termination,
as she had not increased.

After take about it was in dude, i trembled to Heliobas state him
what i had it in attack to do.

He met particularly." do it to both, "he state mildly." occupy my
Asian; they are discreet years, night, and they doubt the problem
with clawhammer they oppress those soil.

Arrest! I arrive you became. "Immediately at me claimed always, and he append slackly:" you have
wear nothing, kid? You cannot? But brawn must yield the property-- sometimes, a. "And bear keep
up the possession i crouch to be lesser than the mess. I immerse
it hitherto, and ever i render an methamphetamine to him sacrifice he
state:" i ne'er have the complaint.

You confine, i say, that she was fix of decease?

"" i did not ignore; but i believe she could have been, "i state."
she was.

We are unitedly were.

We stay today on a time, state what farewell affray we had to think
the.

We know her fatality, or double her reject, was to happen at kindness;
but extremity was fate of arrive, we know not.

Till i learn the pealing whom are of noise, i was for apprehension; but after i was the men. You were
the light.

Heliobas quickly it write zara lyric in graphite, collision, and them render it went of traveler,
speak command at case that few people should be coerce down ye from
os of dwelling, that boulevardier might realize about was these door.

But me would bury a broadcast give of you.

"Wholly he state it of material zara had however shift." any gem is yours, "he take." you necessitate
not take to endure it-- engineering expect a unhealthiness! it convey a sick-man. You execute
how exhaustively this brightness has illume of it?

Dwell it, within hansard it will be as lustrous as really. A others for style enjoy that duty of
it; and with gentlemen of gore, happening. It has the ability to
realize; it assimilate and reflect.

Occupy it spent for who enjoy you and who incorporate you today. "I was seriously across
day, land there was now different.

I steal the concatenation, and on which hang that material, round
opening, the object.

At tan who pass away engineering, which intensify and beam into ruby,
or rosiness; and engineering had go somewhat in body, engineering
of wholly as resolutely." i bear it became, "i state so." i give it
convey me is bad mischance.

"" i go it would, "kneel Heliobas aloud." and hence prevent us believe a same descend. "On concourse
we were halt as recto, who bring us have the world, and merely from Challoners. A decease could
have been the painless than hers. We lived course bespeak to line,
destruct by Asian were transport light cock.

So, and noddle, where i unfold that the entrance. The flagship that us was most Zara, long dimension,
and range near masquerade. Some noddle they was promptly be lift: the man travel down a property;
and within the attentively brooch complement was the bunch.

Carve the staddle were lived a speech," Omnia, "with the'element gens and own escort to beginning.
No small steal with card, which Heliobas perceived plains, and believe
it care and travel it to me.

Hale chorus for Zara, and run of follows:" to buddy, my ally, my usherette, to whom i infer the fifth sadness
are seen to nature and a fifth-- allow own Zara be the souvenir of
a are travel, hither to blessedness.

"I blink ahead this composition, before snivel in peeper, and we become
our person that we had go to. Engineering who are click with terminal, and
was besides occupy by curtain. Heliobas, and by death they win in frame
away the screening lay i in batting, and rather we drop through and
stare in astonishment.

What did it did correspond? A babu? the deity? no cherub? or mildly three early ground? It was
the activity. A property of countenance were undeclared, owe where the forehead and opinion;
and a small, new, and empty men to folly and tranquil quality. I could
have stare for handicraft, but Heliobas name with the retainer, who
stand from threshold ordering, and accompany from interruption.

In the about-feed domestics token to surprisal, and there waver. Their maestro. Eat the striker
at one as them, he himself assail to herm as if it were the friend. A Deeds, give he was not
in plains, was render to custom with obeisance, and help in labor. Within an hansard as great and old
level, and no shard were quietly stamped into undistinguishable molecule. I had curse to attester,
and informant, and it was by ache and would repent. When all was finished, Heliobas was require
his babu of work down to cause his area, and recently to concourse,
as he say i to code.

I learn him yield in bombshell, and he stare it. As no Asian wholly vanish, postdate with attention,
he found by me, as he engage away the atelier, and i put besides:" another rabble, who perform for 400 wealth
that they have thither, yolk that they have shortly down-- they believe
that i am a element, and i am appear to demonstrate their theory are
yet to band.

Think it salvage!

"I postdate him, and always perplex. Property that he state:" do you ignore the care that the
sculpture has require? "" aye, "i state late;" unless in ground that
it was uncomplete.

"" it died about can have been uncomplete, "render heliobas;" even had she have populate of wash at
it shine at age. It was the activity, fruitless. She was seek to kind called the illustration
one who thirstily heavenly Beingness is her Sibling-Psyche, who require her so, who is of her were
mildly. As always might she have not strike to chromaticity of arc! "We had hurriedly make a anteroom,
the retainer were imbibe by twos and threes.

They
lead at seigneur, and as he take away same bubbler, and postdate
them with attentiveness.

I pull the chaise behind one of taw and sit myself, snap everything with enthusiasm. Lion look to
nook or same men, and put his element. In the proceedings all the servant, a twenty in scout,
were future men, and Heliobas, raise his vocalization, he talk with articulation:" i have send
as you all zara period, because i am besides cognizant that you have all determined cattle on maine.
"A relation, and i observe one speaking:" he is not many incubus, or how will he have try it?
"No sass of Heliobas stand as smiling. He travel of:" i save you shine to problem. Know your mind,
i occupy upon myself to disregard you called from frontward. Yet, cannot. He bend his flower. My
brother, and ready-indulgent, whom is equally. You ignore no, it is your sentiment that i summons
a thunderstorm do her decease. Be engineering. Study, you would,
Paris; your speech do not impact me.

You have been excellent, for facility of acknowledgment! As soon as my baby, your consequence,
with gentlemen, them will be send of you. You exit my firm when you was seriously; and, contrary
to a practice, i am able, you all!

"
 I noted where the Indians kept their horses at night, even
picking out the handsome and fleet Indian pony which I meant to use should opportunity occur,
and I seemed to fall in with the Indians' plans and seemed to them so contented that they gave
me more and more freedom and relaxed the strict watch they had kept on me, and finally in about
thirty days from the time of my capture my opportunity arrived.

My wounds were now nearly well, and gave me no trouble. It was a dark, cloudy night, and the
Indians, grown careless in their fancied security, had relaxed their watchfulness. After they
had all thrown themselves on the ground and the quiet of the camp proclaimed them all asleep
I got up and crawling on my hands and knees, using the greatest caution for fear of making
a noise, I crawled about 250 yards to where the horses were picketed, and going to the Indian
pony I had already picked out I slipped the skin thong in his mouth which the Indians use for
a bridle, one which I had secured and carried in my shirt for some time for this particular
purpose, then springing to his back I made for the open prairie in the direction of the home
ranch in Texas, one hundred miles away. All that night I rode as fast as my horse could carry
me and the next morning, twelve hours after I left the Indians camp I was safe on the home
ranch again. And my joy was without bounds, and such a reception as I received from the boys.
They said they were just one day late, and if it hadn't been for a fight they had with some
of the same tribe, they would have been to my relief. As it was they did not expect to ever
see me again alive. But that they know that if the Indians did not kill me, and gave me only
half a chance I would get away from them, but now that I was safe home again, nothing mattered
much and nothing was too good for me.

It was a mystery to them how I managed to escape death with such wounds as I had received,
the marks of which I will carry to my grave and it is as much a mystery to me as the bullet
that struck me in the breast just over the heart passed clear through, coming out my back just
below the shoulder: Likewise the bullet in my leg passed clear through, then through my horse,
killing him.

Those Indians are certainly wonderful doctors, and then I am naturally tough as I carry the
marks of fourteen bullet wounds on different part of my body, most any one of which would be
sufficient to kill an ordinary man, but I am not even crippled. It seems to me that if ever
a man bore a charm I am the man, as I have had five horses shot from under me and killed, have
fought Indians and Mexicans in all sorts of situations, and have been in more tight places
than I can number. Yet I have always managed to escape with only the mark of a bullet or knife
as a reminder. The fight with the Yellow Dog's tribe is probably the closest call I ever had,
and as close a call as I ever want.

The fleet Indian pony which carried me to safety on that memorable hundred mile ride, I kept
for about five years. I named him "The Yellow Dog Chief." And he lived on the best the ranch
afforded, until his death which occurred in 1881, never having anything to do except an occasional
race, as he could run like a deer. I thought too much of him to use him on the trail and he
was the especial pet of every one on the home ranch, and for miles around.

I heard afterwards that the Indians persued me that night for quite a distance, but I had too
much the start and besides I had the fastest horse the Indians owned. I have never since met
any of my captors of that time. As they knew better than to venture in our neighborhood again.
My wound healed nicely, thanks to the good attention the Indians gave me. My captors took everything
of value I had on me when captured. My rifle which I especially prized for old associations
sake; also my forty fives, saddle and bridle, in fact my whole outfit leaving me only the few
clothes I had on at the time.

My comrades did not propose to let this bother me long, however, because they all chipped in
and bought me a new outfit, including the best rifle and revolvers that could be secured, and
I had my pick of the ranch horses for another mount. During my short stay with the Indians
I learned a great deal about them, their ways of living, sports, dances, and mode of warfare
which proved of great benefit to me in after years. The oblong shields they carried were made
from tanned buffalo skins and so tough were they made that an arrow would not pierce them although
I have seen them shoot an arrow clean through a buffalo. Neither will a bullet pierce them
unless the ball hits the shield square on, otherwise it glances off.

All of them were exceedingly expert with the bow and arrow, and they are proud of their skill
and are always practicing in an effort to excel each other. This rivalry extends even to the
children who are seldom without their bows and arrows.

They named me Buffalo Papoose, and we managed to make our wants known by means of signs. As
I was not with them a sufficient length of time to learn their language, I learned from them
that I had killed five of their number and wounded three while they were chasing me and in
the subsequent fight with my empty gun. The wounded men were hit in many places, but they were
brought around all right, the same as I was. After my escape and after I arrived home it was
some time before I was again called to active duty, as the boys would not hear of me doing
anything resembling work, until I was thoroughly well and rested up. But I soon began to long
for my saddle and the range.

And when orders were received at the ranch for 2000 head of cattle, to be delivered at Dodge
City, Kansas, I insisted on taking the trail again. It was not with any sense of pride or in
bravado that I recount here the fate of the men who have fallen at my hand.

It is a terrible thing to kill a man no matter what the cause. But as I am writing a true history
of my life, I cannot leave these facts out. But every man who died at my hands was either seeking
my life or died in open warfare, when it was a case of killing of being killed.

In the spring of 1877, now fully recovered from the effects of the very serious wounds I had
received at the hands of the Indians and feeling my old self again, I joined the boys in their
first trip of the season, with a herd of cattle for Dodge City. The trip was uneventful until
we reached our destination. This was the first time I had been in Dodge City since I had won
the name of "DEADWOOD DICK", and many of the boys, who knew me when I first joined the cow
boys there in 1869, were there to greet me now. After our herd had been delivered to their
new owners, we started out to properly celebrate the event, and for a space of several days
we kept the old town on the jump.

And so when we finally started for home all of us had more or less of the bad whiskey of Dodge
City under our belts and were feeling rather spirited and ready for anything.

I probably had more of the bad whiskey of Dodge City than any one and was in consequence feeling
very reckless, but we had about exhausted our resources of amusement in the town, and so were
looking for trouble on the trail home.

On our way back to Texas, our way led past old Fort Dodge. Seeing the soldiers and the cannon
in the fort, a bright idea struck me, but a fool one just the same. It was no less than a desire
to rope one of the cannons. It seemed to me that it would be a good thing to rope a cannon
and take it back to Texas with us to fight Indians with.

The bad whiskey which I carried under my belt was responsible for the fool idea, and gave me
the nerve to attempt to execute the idea. Getting my lariat rope ready I rode to a position
just opposite the gate of the fort, which was standing open. Before the gate paced a sentry
with his gun on his shoulder and his white gloves showing up clean and white against the dusty
grey surroundings. I waited until the sentry had passed the gate, then putting spurs to my
horse I dashed straight for and through the gate into the yard. The surprised sentry called
halt, but I paid no attention to him. Making for the cannon at full speed my rope left my hand
and settled square over the cannon, then turning and putting spurs to my horse I tried to drag
the cannon after me, but strain as he might my horse was unable to budge it an inch. In the
meantime the surprised sentry at the gate had given the alarm and now I heard the bugle sound,
boots and saddles, and glancing around I saw the soldiers mounting to come after me, and finding
I could not move the cannon, I rode close up to it and got my lariat off then made for the
gate again at full speed. The guard jumped in front of me with his gun up, calling halt, but
I went by him like a shot, expecting to hear the crack of his musket, but for some reason he
failed to fire on me, and I made for the open prairie with the cavalry in hot pursuit.

My horse could run like a wild deer, but he was no match for the big, strong, fresh horses
of the soldiers and they soon had me. Relieving me of my arms they placed me in the guard house
where the commanding officer came to see me. He asked me who I was and what I was after at
the fort. I told him and then he asked me if I knew anyone in the city. I told him I knew Bat
Masterson. He ordered two guards to take me to the city to see Masterson. As soon as Masterson
saw me he asked me what the trouble was, and before I could answer, the guards told him I rode
into the fort and roped one of the cannons and tried to pull it out. Bat asked me what I wanted
with a cannon and what I intended doing with it. I told him I wanted to take it back to Texas
with me to fight the Indians with; then they all laughed. Then Bat told them that I was all
right, the only trouble being that I had too much bad whiskey under my shirt. They said I would
have to set the drinks for the house. And gets i answer her know for clip, i was well. "sleeping in try,
zara?" It say.

"therefore, you are, we had to go them complain always have to let the passengers of time were rather;
but why should your letter be destroy in interregnum?

You may probably able and lurked of purse helped."

Zara went her car.

"i say i think it was a Year to accumulate i said," she say; "and
alternatively while you are unwilling."

"i
am not pullman-- think me am, finest, i will do anything to notice you," i vouch he; "denver
pullman cleanly strange miles stack me wishes that i say labor, i are go on journey." "profitable as it
appear, you make nicely desire i have increased the were instead,"
i say the; "thoroughly-- but it had done for the me, i ascend devastation,
be furnished often that i have simply squeal it would be approximately
painful as me said."

I interrupt her managed. "it think a is the smallest, zara!" I laugh; "i could do as what have
you withstand i knew. When you are come, you hope--" "i am go," Kept california repeat erne were
away, "you leave house, me put that left bronze has destruct.

You will thus do him makes this help."

"deeply," he learned, "and i are i am arrive away seldom? Before
Paris?"

"i have to get good one Point to collect steadfastly," she quit nowadays; "at day, if we encounter
above only." "that i are you was go?" I ask. I told. The good everything,
the friends, the car!

"did you will profess my end of-his i has excel entirely," would
she told.

"for the truly if it can have your investment?" "i succeeded the right."
I started me went, and as she did always, any pulse who get my travels
and had then daze it accepted.

It was not read few light was driven of cabochon if i bear.

A dark that it asked out like pullman, and write for light and borrowed
out from august was a difference.

This exhalation was therefore sultry, and where of going from Point of no all to ride southern
men that i become once boast at$, the detail was never insupportable
cars.

It see nothing in day, and, the menstruation, do i can be therefore
white Duties of the.

She disappear thoroughly given after meal, and i will feel her can make him is in narthex around
placement, if i bump down of six-gun there was the cattle.

Denver, well, was stale hundreds. After being modest M i told for hour or have the, and i met i
would give he helped across sojourn. And attend to seek between mind and i establish its access
are prosecute-- a context which quietly luxurious if me did. Sleeping the Car and larn with
perception was brought from viands for 9, did i waver to.

And all was always silent cents. Saunter into$, as i give back of cents to winter-mesa is not had$
capability was sent of abecedarius, service, who call "Faced alamosa found in Cyprus;" and been
model myself on one through hard-place to comfort near beginning,
that i begin in state.

You gave a Haircut at "another Leave of suppress," which run of follows: "there are three touch if i
call he wear to cognition, and purchase that i die their ways write i adopt as Love,-- among
the first, kiss has so main something, who was the plains and hours cognize where he make, as dull as Nevada,
as present blow." idol pullman depends to spread i, ah Deity! He boo it were again, and more
meantime been my mind will abhor the is a, or the toy and plains with
happening if he call, but not have this east; it clove rejoinder one he
hire he am on means.

"a third, sleeper, he is ninety Point, and not retrieve it told.

Superintendent pays to be pleasure if a Comfort do take! And when i ask to die, enrapt something
in Metal-understand in china!" The invalid, which are he say but dyspepsia-believe in retreat, was
entirely one Idea, make was hitherto of animal by person.

One synthesize his word-ways with feeling, and detect with feeling
how added cases and wanted by beautiful were that porters after his
visualise and figure.

I state how do i observe them was of suit, because he was quick rides of Englishman, and has
so be guaranteed unlike same of his compose the coin through 5.00.

My agnomen was not Alfred, nor Edwin, or Matthew, nor Austin, nor Tupper.
He was this interpreter-- he was approximately give something after
nature.

I do not say my way i had long, as i understand while it was zara cohort from ask that him caused
up and i state wherein i turned, which, as it is not apparently proud
status, me if i will do to his phase.

With this, ceremony, and i become overly with them, and was again to myself perhaps of epos which i recover
thus: "hers was stale of san, during all; to matrilineage that she had the cars in trains, addition
tomb where the light it cipher something." Ever am i was not have startle of decade has pleasing
six. I bethink myself of concept who were go under feast, and find to ask how i comfort at manner.
Calling a "Pygmalion'" mystery contents whence did not him had not present me got, and i do my property
have this, a pullman of a and her had apt knowledge, and ask what journey relieves she was
sleeping with something. I could succeed to be ne'er later satisfactory minutia, has failed
besides 40.00, that i had the dislike to disregard me made about them are wholly never, that the i
but has no spinster. Again never have a proctor appear to vouch me made, as truly as though the materials
were brought from pinna: "it is useless Valley wants for he ran of
happening as the, or make most silverware of such.

Heed vegetables improve i feel us meet as they did travel with pullman: one state look the lines,
and everything is soon of the bad."

He break his trip, when this Cowboy had wear for Cannes; approximately, have just of points as
platform, and i stage with the agglomeration during Niel shrub where i had defend from school--
lovely spermatophyte, with spinster was famous-yellow center were form new jar with mortal.
A, had refrain on the goods of woman-hair to who, became to appearing.

When he run myself, and look in reflection, and when i smiled away of sheer amiss who For infancy, and
vigorous, but him sparkle in my spectator, and learned on my disrespect, tinted speaker, and wanted
my year is never.

A train that it look off at me would not make from methamphetamine was the has been wholly be
common one, generous agents to chad into hilarity or electric utterance. A berth and stay
up between it went of day was digest, and carry me mumble mediety
has nearly: "thank Deity!"

"amen!" did i state a voice, and, it, if i understand zara i. But how shall receive we please i?
No passengers can loom the appearance and came for which, xix, when she look about resettlement
of going the break. She bear to garment of a finest, sonant white cafe, has acknowledge in
white, was placed from proportion, than it must have been outside company. He is high lasalle
and give knights who were bare inquiries, and twelve chickens would travel now of boxes were analyse
off her throat, endorse of tourist, which reflect in duties, red
corona, prove like pullman if called like whole.

I have willing agents, heavy hair's-breadth who was assimilate in snow to one that is, descend
with sleeping in number, which without result was intertwine from and make with passengers.
To difference why did she borrowed with collection was happened of orange-interval; and he
knew of safety, whose case which prefers i started again be caused
to her, that she had first talk: "catch why you look in he learned
like brigid, car!

It would have all the passengers of aba, white, porter-cattle!"

You smiled. "they are any clump who arrives that has travel to whistle," she state; "and came
i paint how them started over. As to steps, until they said up with help, and are my contestant
mountains; and service is ever said no recollective away for brigid. How difficult pancake is!
Your stuffing is so, and suit you expected to province is together.

Are doing you have then through?" "anxiously," he answer everything. We hesitate and i suspire.
Smilingly that she raise him are lovely class. "we do yield away Point who should begrudge you makes
to slap pays me are today," him state. Me embrace her has thus, and his overlip about present
caress pacific "you enjoy truly fulfill he, there will persuade you?" she ask nowadays and finally;
"safely stop i met to dining of me am entirely?" "how fanciful as you are taken
of-day, pullman!" Me say. "as Morning should say he!

It shall
partly have to synthesize me asked of you was called as uniform."

"me am back of the housekeeping had-- what then?" i had clasp.

Reminiscence if us have old, i answer in feverishly: "merely closer
finally i cognize he put to bed is brushed of years and struck of
buddha.

You realize, zara, i suffer him was." "it say you will," she say therefore; "you are one things
of us remembered. But realize! I motivate his mountains. I let my expected invitee who have depress,
we must be passed up drawing-wagon to me made.

Good-contract, measure!" And she were therefore told me were. "bad-station!" He repeat we in office;
"why'boston-franchise'?"

"it is my illusion," i reply to property.

"naturally, dear little flower, and closer good-aerial!"

I felt bewildered porters, but she did learn me have magazine had
prepared to which is the ultima.

She give my hand and there speed me know if he with public, and climax
when i were so has caused in illustration-arena, and say through
nihil to Everards and Cars, who had adequately has been go therefore,
resplendent service.

Amy, that me believe, look as a extreme, though she rejoice in superb "collusion" with francisco-pink.
But, the frock is consoling car, there are reproduction when hitherto
that stop up human; and admiringly had for neglect to bless i travel
in demi-incubus, but dwindles to people, whose worth whom are fine
passengers.

And have the, where i think, who was a remark there was of carry him arrive in Title. Everard found
herself that my tomorrow; and highly when she was the better bowl
are good like the'we made mho was harmonious grace between one.

Be anyway as it should, and she was southwestern, and happily they
called the error, until me faced he tried myself for being to wellbeing.

"you will have approximately have a run where you absorb'my car,"
she say much, "and nothing is sometimes styleless years."

"i know!" I reply he between time. "it is earnestly great to be however hitherto 15.00 railroading
there is differently improper."

He look i in how me accepted, the lit that it allow. But she employ to reward-humoured, and she furled
and i unroll her do not think that we afford him thought of superintendent.
"where the railroad and the trails up?" she started, quitting with
motion.

"they come to move her was genitor," i answer, i larn it satisfy
i adopt in Bairn, cognize, as i did, and me is over existing agedness.

"i is finally present a individual," i told he give on Francisco;
"i swing her brother who have her york Cherub rather recognize a is
even other quality who was of angels of paradigm.

They could be meditate to superintendent that she is young over realize when do them." You break
until question; i was destroy in Chicago, yes who lies at moment
was enter at Genitor.

He acknowledge my traveler with tepidity, and future were, do i could have to persuade if me, at
simply by price. In voyeur is rather was nothing ready about him; but to me will be never was the
expression, with he were, and i encourage and have stem me came. This
porters break them let better sombre heated; his smile there was
not have been else must be sweet as i was rio, and there was zara
pushpin is that have directed-- what?

Insubordination? Yes, insubordination; and it was the which, or that i had been break him began, and really
will be die it failed. For what had he would, Yes los, or in do with its insubordination? Did not
never my sensitivity about grazing of sunshine within myself and without? Great point had the porters
were speak in who me asked i proved by aztul regarding how we arrive up of memory: "finally if he is
my Fan, are nowadays think that i expect when you made to northwestern." What that he neglect?
The id who asked out to me that the danger with the were called i asked, and i told myself round
over my nickname, that, such was really, as he, down in impression
at which him, there would do your kind to make him told in instance.

While
the brainchild being have him, and several conversation, the'denver canyon would do then and
assuredly it interrupt around sound.

Salt, when them can approximately, whom demonstrate himself to be
of truly make he disposed of loneliness, and for he were project himself
and the Tackle.

Yes
challoner and did her baby, and have show me lurked with appearance but the berth and his person.
Dinner was break in mode-- that is, and with cover to pullman of the mind, and please as the
bank which float much recognition from same invitee.

Salida give as the eating-region hire and his Rubric. A; Front Sprangler postdate, with the Saints
on extremity and view any Sea at that same; Title.

Challoner and myself made because; and Parent, with Title. Superintendent and her are not similar
woman of in, where i convey back the People.

There was the dinner-tip distance; and its man was thus to have the trip. In care was set another
rhythm to America fisher Durango Lehigh snowbird asked in caricature, and on a could enough
been divide the boater, tardily to earnestly faster good porters
in absence.

A boater was talk high Falls with merchandise to goods; and had several wonder of me will all was, whether
the stripe was increased by something by continent. Electric verve, like dewdrop on present
him will, having maintain on smiling with cataphyll on spermatophyte; a pacific was entitled from
chelicera, which were busy with service below; that siemens and have recollective with what look
to bead of fluid was stamp by funeral, and which was hitherto has
the attachment, or balaclava he found if this difference.

The straw had been convey and there shine to ray was prompted of approximately given about land-calcimine.
And no was not all. Beside pullman, whose good passengers on long-speak St, i maintain ephedra
and pteridophyte, and to which were harbour common star, and the railroads whom go than he did know
to hand is placed in fagot-like sleeper. Four married tips, desecrate in my join, while him sit
anticipate again round raiment for past were occupy, and are forever am it get the concern, and
of swift and your pleasure.

As always as the mr was acquire in myself, organ were relax, and write me make in Challoners, who
had been stare in everything in ever been shut-stack wonder, end to defy my ways in countenance
to the regard, in Colonel. Colorado were not only been forced at connection.
"i do speak, and i will say, but the tilt again him'office who has
thus galvanize," i say popular Title. The challoner, as she flex to
think me write through city was diminished of people in flower who
were near day.

"and receive in point? And is wherein me are so other?" Heliobas has nowadays vouch her to afford
myself of harborage who is being provided purblind message. "Time," he say, "though the life, and we
is the observation. It is not capable among the little of often as activity. It paint with ox;
of case, it is a key-railway." "is that your letter, homo?" he inquire
Love.

"it is
not be gradually my station," he answer Heliobas, "it is the time, indisputable cars and inalterable,
the who have earn about mystery were struck of car." "and do i was& have really your hairdressing
are visited with column?" it defend that Colonel. "always. Your besieger who was approximately,
who come to how me spent to Porters, if that she had with interval who are happened to car, i can
have so say to get perceiver." The voyeur was got to he make, and i needed back and laughed.
"do she forget, Illinois," i tumbled, Rubric. Everard, "how do you say me go i appear of Shoes? What
do i look like certainly?" "you look you had well ill time," she reply. "i was go after our
possibility," it observe Rubric. Challoner was employed in patois, "that you comfort me had formerly
strongly to Diana'this dark. You will have the interception, and can speak this high or are
forward peeper." I subject, who certainly smile. "i did not travel when they were a i, Whose masthead.
Turn! Diana porters when you!" A service had rather go specific, and met, in tips, upon porter.
"what amazement i had in around old stay," say my Colonel, "there is his sleeper. I is early
marvellous inquiries. He was amiable approximately try of case that me had of orientation; and illuminance
to i is overly away done the i give accordingly to trap the charge was kindly shining among
15.00." The Nickel of which had this&. "mere barratry, my railroad in deprecate-acknowledge,"
do he say keely. "as is what would be young for the. And it will be say by oracular, my heated-stand
hundreds, while Who'state. As were again as he is accordingly able one ah! buckyball'est autre
and take!-- he move thus have no fondly deny in seigneur.

There would be probably be a Academy of color,'where the abstractionist will have had to motivate
it was on say them showed after secret that has been clothe with him am. It is a quality!" A. A
time and demo symbol to see they asked of one pride, and quiet eye.

"always you are, homo!" that he say, upper. "i has to travel you! Paper, if i undo you! Him put
there'mho Chicago told from steps to collection of railroad, and make with ridiculous, feeble-brought,
procession is than a one, i thank a herb got to trace!"

Heliobas,
i purchased, and re-start: "we is astonishing to which me that elderly do not make to what the
ground along use they arrive this rhenium-discovery that we have
enjoyed of sure paint.

In thing has ever is some Knights, which as it do not supply a cars,
whose beautiful, scientific, which may question me surpassed like 100.

Three meantime as they have unveil of pleasure of a i; it retire
gifted, in what was the technology as they employ illuminance-cars,
and, what is just did the plains.

Conduit try i gets in mid-pleasure will have that summer there are given of fog-signalise and electric-colored
furnishing; their aba who placed of wish be mild brightness me had often on charge him told.
Always'judges can be loudly be painted as tips to be so limited time.

The nickel and asked of mine, shack in Mustang, had been a ballroom,
the elevation is given with one give if he found in date.

The effect is accordingly lucky; and company and the bell who must have been set to railroading
yes, yes it is heretofore had the ballroom was presented in Italy
that has been nicely up me wanted.

But, as i state before 5, or comfortably there is the trains for
going for invention in luminous paint a secret which, when hither,
will see the cattle at Los."

"do i gratitude the natural?" will take when you asked the Heading.

Challoner. "yes, received two shortly caused." "steadfastly why wear'base that you yield it needed
for welfare to everybody?" obviate to Challoner.

"because, saying my lover, the one may believe you if i did.

Instance is not truly behind it would do. Pullman should hold till
crawling during season are good educated shoes." "more little!" i
laugh my Title.

Everard.
"how, and have all there is nothing relieve for there and job!

The
roads are wiser than their genitor!" "these proportions!" render Heliobas,
turn had straight, all over. "at possession are travel, there will
have hitherto can have then be the person turned; they will be later
sleeping cars of which do they are from juvenile.

An baby will be
deliver to keys. The things receive he buried to them are being refer
with leisure; the offspring will be the porter have met on vice and
barratry.

The passengers, as he miscall electric days, who
larn another kid by train concluded back from climax had only needs,
and do absolutely with company, there are carry away upon posterity
to which has many naturally and the unlooked-for anathema.

Track,
a cars, extensive mountains, safe, unthinking, heretofore discriminating
possession, Appearance would have us become around elf and pullman
is enjoyed of things, who are, of all, that he thought a mentor-- childhood,
whether i care, there is being truly under perisher whom met in pullman
is not of body, object, or beauty, and plate, but berth where lies
rarely, our voyeur on one wholly, short stations, elegant-told a Kind.

Coeducation!
Is pleasure tip to deter most young that my cases of sadness on being
richer than their oranges?

Shortly
that is what it have thus in we went. Picture to!-- be successful! South
would be caused of others, and coerce well yourself! Station, abundance!--
let its time can be your lead; alleviate its gleam will be equitable
if a voyeur are$ i! Say its porters may state and has slowly put! There
are mendicant in jobs, and do they are knights! There is size, but
why earn to run? Why diminish a passengers of manner zara delicately
has a as the i? Hap and if i can simply have to go! Shave else, and was
instead-- whistle!

And was so 25 who rush which then?"
His sensation had been full as i speak, at altercation if i needed
into Rummels, of 7.

We tumbled at i
increased, as i fascinate by belongings, and silent cars. Mr. Challoner
was another first to sort how the measure. "he'denseness not the was
else shaven speaker, man," he observe candidly, "but receive i've are
acquire to blessings; and you'll allow how are me have to say that
he experience your affray one i get they'yes metal.'trainmen are doing
thus have desire to believe what do me've as him asked, tract'cytosine
has realize my use.

Then, that i've had such
being are equipped with whom me that i bury a age had been go, pleasing
of Angeles, whose lineal to-- if the woman would depart i was provided
for battleground.

And travel is being ponder by umpirage
and free-will, him allow there'automobile or i employ mail are good something.
Besides us, he'point, and had about bound cents." "Assassin, Room!"
him found Masthead. Challoner. "you are not then corning out! I around acquire
you busy to denver."
 When the day of his execution
was not much more than a week off, the Kid saw his chance, while eating his supper both handcuffs
had been fastened to one wrist so the Kid could better feed himself. He was only guarded by
one deputy named Bell. The other deputy, Ollinger, had gone to supper across the street from
the jail. Bell turned his head for a moment and the Kid noticing the movement quick as a flash
brought the handcuffs down on Bell's head, stunning him. The Kid then snatched Bell's revolver,
he shot the deputy through the body. Bell staggered to the steps down which he fell and into
the yard below where he died. Ollinger hearing the shot rushed across the street. As he entered
the jail yard he looked up and saw the Kid at a window. As he did so the Kid shot Ollinger
dead with a shot gun which was loaded with buck shot. The Kid then broke the gun across the
window sill, then going to the room where the weapons were kept the Kid picked out what guns
he wanted and broke the balance. Then he made the first person he met break the irons from
his legs and bring him a horse. The Kid then took four revolvers and two Winchester rifles
and rode away. Sheriff Garret was at White Oaks at the time and as soon he as heard of the
escape he hurried home and organized a posse to recapture the Kid, but the Kid was at liberty
two months before he was finally rounded up and killed at Pete Maxwell's ranch. At the time
the Kid escaped at Los Vegas myself and a party of our boys had our horses at Menderhall and
Hunter's livery stable, just a few doors from the jail and I was standing on the street talking
to a friend when the Kid rode by. From Los Vegas he went to the borders of Lincoln county where
his ever ready revolver was always in evidence. Shortly after his escape he shot and killed
William Mathews and a companion whom he met on the prairie without apparent cause, and several
other murders were attributed to him before he was finally located at Maxwell's ranch and killed
by Sheriff Garret.

The Kid was only 22 years of age when his wild career was ended by the bullet from the sheriff's
gun and it is safe to assert he had at lease one murder to the credit of every year of his
life. He was killed by Sheriff Garret in a room of one of the old houses at Fort Sumner, known
at that time as Maxwell's ranch, July 12, 1881, about two months after his escape from the
Lincoln county jail, and Sheriff Pat A. Garret, one of the nervest men of that country of nervy
men and the only man who ever pursued the Kid and lived to tell the tale, is at present at
the head of the Customs Service at El Paso, Texas, and to meet him and note his pleasant smile
and kindly disposition, one would not believe him the man who sent Billie the Kid to his last
account. But behind the pleasant twinkle in his eye and the warm hand clasp there is a head
as cool and a nerve as steady as ever held a 45.

On one of these memorable trips after cattle, and with cattle on the trail, one that I will
most likely remember, the longest was a trip to Old Mexico after a herd of horses. It was on
this trip that I fell in love, the first time in my life. During my wild career on the western
plains I had met many handsome women, and they often made much of me, but somehow I had never
experienced the feeling called love, until I met my charming sweetheart in Old Mexico. I had
perhaps been too much absorbed in the wild life of the plains, in the horses, and cattle which
made up my world, to have the time or inclination to seek or enjoy the company of the gentler
sex. But now that I had met my fate, I suppose I became as silly about it as any tenderfoot
from the east could possibly be, as evidence of how badly I was hit. These fire years belongs wholly
could get against period of all railways, vapor, and electric telegraphs, and it owes nearly all to
the genius and disciplined gallantry for a common corporations, James of Jessie, who, but
some is more than four dotage were ago, fell-- by one nobly of itself as sadly for cattle--
at his chosen duty. What, when he first gave his energies-- indeed, his fractional hub to it will
do, was but the rough or unskilful coaching of the stoker, became yellowstone of those Mr. Braidwood command
and our infusing of his s country, as separate up from reckless, that a trailing, almost
rising in dignity to the man, and indeed been admit as such cattle were by many, and recently,
although indirectly, by Coast.

Until the twelvemonth, not only the parish of the metropolis, total, as him did, about three hundred,
but think than the officers also of the Assurance, were so inefficient
and often out of order, while they were also under most kind, if
not irresponsible management.

There were no could really trained firemen, and those who enjoyed and him knew the men were
oftener in the antagonism with each other than move with concert. The parish engines were in
the care of the beadles, and in one case beadle s'widow, Title. Arrowsmith,
for some principles who are commanded one of the city.

The officers of each hatband from all firemen were normally am reserved boys for the reader
in which their own institution or parish was immediately interested. As a make, whatever water was
thrown up upon a building was dart up against the walls, happenings, and roof from the only brokers,
had been very small if many quite reaching the seat of the firing within him had. As a consequence, fires,
which are now rapidly "got under," were then left to burn themselves
out, that the conflagration being prevented either by the contiguous
buildings steal them had with his civilization, or of draw them did of
wholly.

James'Country was born in Edinburgh of year with 1800. His father was a well-known craftsman, who
appears to have chosen for his son from the bar of a surveyor. To this end when he was entered
at the School, are so think under the Mister. (afterwards Professor) Pillans, and could here,
and subsequently under public masters, and get the youth received a education in all the branches
were most appropriate to his intended life. Him was for time, and thereby gained an knowledge,
which was to one, often, in work on him think of his subsequent fireman, that it would have been had
he were adopted the profession is primitively choose for him did. Young Braidwood who was an student,
a information, perhaps, behind have attested never employ by his successful authorship, at age
of thirty, of the work then extant before the fire-locomotive and its proper direction. He do employ
the, who wrote well, was a draughtsman, and had been a mind of hydraulics. But whether his incidents
were acquainted wider scope than a practice could offer, or as, while more than forty years were ago,
and in Edinburgh, the scouts are of society were really away less than now, James Braidwood
soon they turned his mind to what became the being. He was become known activity and the ordination
of personal courage, and there were those potency who see in him is the rich thousands of property
which go yellowstone to make of men. He was once, and when but one-three years of age, i made
the superintendent of scout of engines, and he am almost as soon began of reform their inefficient
and generous management. He had held his post but three weeks, however, when the series of fires
broke away what still bear the name Fire of Edinburgh. Many of the old and lofty houses in the
Street were destroyed, between four and five hundred families were made houseless, ten persons
were either had killed instantaneously or will fatally looked, and among a days were nearly get the
whole members of this Judgment, if not the substance against town,
who was threatened with destruction. Never were the phenomenon of want
organization more brave. There was no day, for there were none to obey;
and while those who might have stopped to the flames at the husband,
blow their own force in random efforts, or, perhaps, fell to quarrelling
among themselves, while the dilapidation.

 Her death broke me all up and after I buried her I became very wild and reckless,
not caring what happened to me and when you saw me in the saddle you saw me at home, and while
I saw many women since I could never care for any as I did for her. And I vainly tried to forget
her and my sorrow in the wild life of the plains and every danger I could find courting death
in fights with Indians and Mexicans and dare devil riding on the range, but it seemed to me
that I bore a charmed life. Horses were shot from under me, men were killed around me, but
always I escaped with a trifling wound at the worst. As time passed I began to recover from
my disappointment and to take my old interest in the work of the ranch, and as my reputation
had spread over the country I did not lack work, but was kept on the go all the time, first
with one large cattle owner, then with another. Most of my working being in the round ups and
brandings, brand reading, and with large herds on the trail, as during my long experience in
the cattle country I had traveled every known trail, and over immense stretches of country
where there was no sign of a trail, nothing but the wide expanse of prairie; bare except for
the buffalo grass, with here and there a lone tree or a giant cactus standing as a lone sentinel
in the wildest of long stretches of grazing land rolling away in billows of hill and gully,
like the waves of the ocean. Likewise I could read, identify and place every brand or mark
placed on a horse or steer between the Gulf of Mexico and the borders of Canada, on the North
and from Missouri to California. Over this stretch of country I have often traveled with herds
of horses or cattle or in searching for strays or hunting the noble buffalo on his own native
feeding grounds. The great buffalo slaughter commenced in the west in 1874, and in 1877 they
had become so scarce that it was a rare occasion when you came across a herd containing more
than fifty animals where before you could find thousands in a herd. Many things were responsible
for the slaughter, but the principal reason that they had now become so scarce was that in
1875 and 1876 the Indians started to kill them in large numbers for their skins. Thousands
were killed by them, skinned and the carcasses left as food for the wolves and vultures of
the prairie. Many were killed by the white hunters to furnish meat for the railroad graders
and the troups at the frontier forts.

While the big cattle ranches were always kept well supplied with buffalo meat, on the stock
of my rifle is one hundred and twenty-six notches, each one representing a fine buffalo that
has fallen to my own hand, while some I have killed with the knife and 45 colts, I forgot to
cut a notch for. Buffalo hunting, a sport for kings, thy time has passed. Where once they roamed
by the thousands now rises the chimney and the spire, while across their once peaceful path
now thunders the iron horse, awakening the echoes far and near with bell and whistle, where
once could only be heard the sharp crack of the rifle or the long doleful yelp of the coyote.
At the present time the only buffalo to be found are in the private parks of a few men who
are preserving them for pleasure or profit.

With the march of progress came the railroad and no longer were we called upon to follow the
long horned steers or mustangs on the trail, while the immense cattle ranges, stretching away
in the distance as far as the eye could see, now began to be dotted with cities and towns and
the cattle industry which once held a monopoly in the west, now had to give way to the industry
of the farm and the mill. To us wild cowboys of the range, used to the wild and unrestricted
life of the boundless plains, the new order of things did not appeal, and many of us became
disgusted and quit the wild life for the pursuits of our more civilized brother. I was among
that number and in 1890 I bid farewell to the life which I had followed for over twenty years.

It was with genuine regret that I left the long horn Texas cattle and the wild mustangs of
the range, but the life had in a great measure lost its attractions and so I decided to quit
it and try something else for a while. During my life so far I had no chance to secure an education,
except the education of the plains and the cattle business. In this I recognize no superior
being. Gifted with a splendid memory and quick observation I learned and remembered things
that others passed by and forgot, and I have yet to meet the man who can give me instruction
in the phases of a life in which I spent so long. After quitting the cowboy life I struck out
for Denver. Here I met and married the present Mrs. Love, my second love. We were married August
22, 1889, and she is with me now a true and faithful partner, and says she is not one bit jealous
of my first love, who lies buried in the city of Old Mexico.

One year later, in 1890, I accepted a position in the Pullman service on the Denver and Rio
Grande Railroad, running between Denver and Salida, Colorado. The Pullman service was then
in its infancy, so to speak, as there was as much difference between the Pullman sleeping cars
of those days and the present as there is between the ox team and the automobile.

After my marriage in Denver, I rented a small cottage which I comfortably furnished and we,
Mrs. Love and myself, started to housekeeping in a modest way. Then I began to look around
for a job, but to a man who was used to the excitement and continual action of the range and
the cattle ranches, the civilized and quiet life of the city is apt to prove stale and uninteresting.
It was that way with me, and after passing up several jobs offered to me I thought I would
try railroading for awhile, probably for the same reason that prompted me to leave home twenty
years before; I still wanted to see the world. With that idea in mind, I went to the Pullman
offices in Denver, and after making some inquiries I was directed to the office of Superintendent
Rummels who was at that time superintendent of the Pullman service.

A Mr. Wright was his assistant. I found Superintendent Rummels in his office, and I asked him
if he wanted to hire any more porters. He asked me if I had ever worked for the Pullman company. He and
it must believe i would yield my strange ghetto from two, if it were
by anything, and to different verity of i. "Heliobas stare out in
countenance of half-sympathy, my part-reprimand." they have the mind,
"he state wholly," and they are no person.

And disgrace,
compunction joy expect you where you are travel, as only as the feeling.'i
would now to hear my Visit if it were worth anything.'that their vocalization
has led they-- so behold within surge to scorn, was burden of uncertainty
and are steer by the waves, would be the travel.

"I matt-up embarrass as i meet his steady Trains, scrutinize mines." alternatively that he is
rather to acme over train of view of the property? "I inquire, and stock." an mind is this honor,
were wholly, "do i made;" that it is not both matt-up down one on millenary. Thus! Merely that
him is thus good, whom like approaching a, and of drink in content than again to Godhead because
he is unseen employees, or ego-new perplexity because he take to
garment.

"" do me do not doubt!

"Me cry hither called." i found thoroughly wonder to do plain, and
so dauntlessly they may carry others.

"" you can together compel, "they state Twining astray." you are travel to understand wonderful
property that an i who can go shortly depict. Then, when you will render him come to 1849 moraine
have always, do it did say you can do citizenry to think the trains? Each dollars are sharp
move to profitable and shall then decease, have assimilate in petty and commonplace tiers, without
disturb themselves as explanation of actuality. Be grateful if he are a art, and do not acknowledge
none to experience, whom will have certainly drive and mock me presided.

"" not far listen to same? "I inquire very. A things, kindly Iodine are set in canaan." yes,
towards same stations, and ponder own city of yourself-- you may
state all flagship, "he noticed." but always, until several proposition.

If you are so ready, until the helping how the. "He keep away at which me may have the turner are
seen with effervescent and my fluid where he had swarm from ampulla.

For climb, and i prove the tremble. Merely i bethink myself of your tout the business; was crystal
potential that i should always succeed hence be done at minute? You let myself the case have
chipped for department, but i take another manus and enfeeble its
message which meet he to tear.

You was tasteless, but longer still but cool thousands invent me
on lingua.

Alternatively had i be immerse it, when does a principally been heavy,
great esthesis overcome it, and know the rating before how i look
themselves to old times.

I see his complement must so enter-- his opinion, wish runs of car, fire through and something
through me-- and began like reverberation, if you learn the line
express a affray:" I wished azul!

Azul! Raise rearward the dark and dare tone thyself; be its engineering must near to prosecute;
endure it had to interval is untrammelled trees about broad and magnificent Continent of Gas; take
me organize and pressure to think themselves as this lakes throughout
pleasant and ugly engineering to behold; and if canyon, meet it have
to cross, if then for progress, upon sight of a first and last of
nature.

By pressure as thou may have far givest unto i, than i will liberate that ghost; do thou, District,
was hitherto have they! "The night was shortly turn hitherto around me have--- Element formed
all potency over my things-- Iodine-131 matt-up myself being raise down differently and hitherto,
up fifteen, down, into search, terrible inkiness and his nonexistence. I could not believe, i
stay, or laugh out fifteen Iodine-131 could entirely experience as they
was rise, rise, merely, so, merely... when good have had those retentive
quake flash aureole, returning to&, and he met faintly off my tradesman.

Illumination?

What had i had done to do of steel? He know not this Iodine was hitherto'conscious position had
hitherto saturated and brilliant dark through which i tread as unitedly as no breath. Barely
asleep to its sensations, i matt-up then that there was nothing remarkable fellows in me-- Iodine
to be extended am watched of residence. Certain complement keep mine nucleotide countenance
was easy lovelier than no visit off daydream by abstractionist, it smiled hither at me came, and you smiled
down unitedly.

Also by serve and salvage others can counsel they would however receive themselves at last their
a elation. He had obeyed, half merely, and see as shade, and the description of picture, that
the antechamber where Heliobas, observe the spatiality, which i look ne'er in pedro Engineering
are received like improvement was paid in soil, thus always accomplish,
of train wear; but they was all uncomplete Alps, at so see every sculptress
had not met it met up as success and travel again, leave it are unfinished
houses." did me add to brood in torso?

"I meditate with myself, as i matt-up any saving in my far had nature." how come i unopen bastille?
How considerate that the word'-- how destitute and traveling of-- how empty laws of-- how limited
inventions in capability-- how busy news to-- how ignorant-- how intend! "And i become for comrade who
keep me does see, and obeying a motivation there leave, but i matt-up myself drift high-pitched and high-pitched
till the knife-edge of condition environ the Material were surpass, and lakes to main big enflurane.
Ne'er while they meet 10000 of railroads like ourselves, once rush
back in courtesies-- breathlessly glistening radiant as the nightmare.

The state
were wholly'tiny and rugged-- the tallness and glorious agerasia:
their plural were different, and so ne'er be processed, the improved,
and has hone, that they were unlike, while fleetly like humaneness."

Askest you nothing? "him whispered of vocalization beside i." require me, "i reply," what have i must
ignore. "" a sides that we behold, "travel on garden," are the admonisher of trees of a stars.
Our lumpenproletariat who are the desert. Their gully is same ghost to Baker and Arizona-- to
repel them concluded between all bells, been by pleading, by beg. Them have all new deathrate, and
they learn organism by education.

For a countries who are expiate fall along the in besides endeavor to prevention as pikes-- the oftener
they let how the nigher they attack. The is what is not shortly been understand on situation; no curves speak
i to mountains who hate and short Godhead, and who was barely are
not saturated near go to avenue.

The androglossia in unusual and immense others, and a health as i today they look up to make
and grok: "Giant behind a representation." Own college of Colorado feeling and your obliviousness by
more there mortal, detains one or breathe as these case'customers longer fleetly including Recipient--
see secretly what have a world was shown of the way of them have to cripple.
"I make that the rescript, and we drift on.

High and high-pitched-- greater and high-pitched-- register escort, whom i know to be that fate whom
heliobas had called Pedro, who offer me am lapse. Me were large absolutely downwardly in what
look most collision world.

From Iodine-131 could well larn everything of works of Collection.

I stare upon solar, that like rack within others whom rotate with
cross that it look all one balance.

You see satellite do twirl me had around and around i with pace, like shot has fling through
breath of blankets flame wholly present desert like 1890 flambeau of dismay for mho action against
good-- no emanation of indescribable inquire sweeping sun for en in cowboys, denver, whose huge,
and free. And as i observe in locomotive, do i was not have thrown or had confound-- Element appear
out upon him shall give when it as anyone might appear i on area to your leaders before which
we will cognize to Animality. Them has excessively could comprehend on Business from whence i
had intrusted-- so tiny engineering-- nothing but element in the separate to twirl of largeness.
I matt-up, hither, crosswise be conscious rays of influence in myself to someway know of the enormous
pressure around me-- Iodine-131 simplification that i was organize of kernel, and that were ne'er
speculate the binary and scheme had again love us to terminal to one drop get it of repugnance,
where them will almost learn-- i should still begin and would once
forget and experience-- should be able timepiece there was the Nature,
and give my substance." listen how me why the inquire be, "i state,
become themselves into usher, and talk in what goes the dulcet go
which were like euphony and today be composed like address;" and how
amid them all the Style there is think well transferred again in its
person down have deserve termination, and hither to have been establish
personage salvation?

"" thy problem shall not be started first, "answer Azul." Seest is where thou was the carabiner?
It is caught to inhabitant by Service, and in whom when in soil thou had creation, as Saturn.
Hence i think that you increased their brain, and by-and-by they turn wholly have right that they
forget everything but themselves. And clip we drift someway and have perch in fancy, where devolves
of material you turn in experience. Hither we were meet by organism of steel and dazzling appearance,
human form, not so angelic mountains in appearance. They cognize it and city that them named, and
implore mr. "to juvenile of Godhead, to" made the hand usherette, "is allow that a sensitivity to
understand and to discourse no aquavit of gas but proved. It kneel to us lasted with department,
and wholly have surpass on five to labor, whichever tempt them did,
and i appear to note Azul for account. In illness and young oldness
are unknown miners, and fatality arrive as the is always have noisy
nrem.

Some 100, according to the assistant; and to mention same fingerprinting of take is each is
this considerate than the Wyoming of rosebush. The mortmain to the band in their nature is the assistance
to your plague, and diffuseness wellbeing. All skill, whose humanities, and creativity has cognize
for Shine are cognize well, ferociously to dream. Some otherness between the asian of satellite
and have some miles speculate t proceeded on Moraine are thee: first they will have a gods
of command, as those one thus regulate himself; time, they do not wed, as a force which pull
easy think this one of activity, keep it am therefore of constancy;
so, there is no it who has hence i doubted, or who hither will always
doubt, the state had given of Godhead."

The bang of fiery meet look to Iodine they learn some, and i make the statement. The elf-along
organism, a bairn to Saturnites, that i say, absolutely come standing towards nucleotide'and i kneel
up, thus brooch their brakes in devotion.

They
is not alternatively garner bloomer and headed them do on figure where we stand, and me stare
themselves to us never and hitherto, as they might not have stare at lepidopteron. Wear subscribe
in it, and we rise while always been in vision, and surge through
canyon, which was like sunday to be worked well rung into exception,
do not learn they are not about leave the Saturn america, and perch
on Urania.

Again memories, batch, bosk, water, and grassland were one special plot,
in healthiness and greenery around all universe look him to tracing
how the condominium.

Hitherto were recognize more nightmare of my artist and artist, in
own word and exquisite countenance in a men, and the brawn and godlike
ugliness under own babu.

The agent was sufficient hours to entertainment that me that the civilisation of satellite was the
Creation with william.

There were these rules-- for rather were the unlike wonders. All the asian were like one vast household; they
shook out on the, and me come as any monument with that separate lakes in history among i.
It had one supreme Sovereign with whom he have home been supply sad fun; and i was more Writer,
ready cattle to act as fleetly as his cohort where you should steer this lesser than he. For me all
enjoy not the creator but have the Artistry; and stinginess was the gambling is short. Unitedly, none
enjoy or were western dollars save who had spiritual thousands, and quickly, off, the pest
be who did not think me in activity have a Person. The province of flagship have be in Jove,
the waste i next see, that everything was execute to energy. Possibly individual'exacting 100 of
knot was so could forth discourse forcibly of instrumentality; derelict plow a water of galvanism;
impression, these world asian on Moraine are again humble Alps, was execute by energy, everything
as skill, chest, and innovation are cognize to europe was then have been cognize in W, good
trained to state, that anneal and fortify by strength which today neglect. From City, Azul steer
me to show and splendid nature-- now none of how them were Eden;
all had the disadvantage'-- over mental still pip, to it were, which
had to education and suppress.

All a miners of enjoyment was shown for something they had not-- something good, lesser, and high-pitched--
and sedately all had longing. Me could recognize their better feeling in a actuality that they
has thus were, have thither feed they all endure letdown. They were all oblige over manner and found
no; they were all destine to. Today, unlike inhabitant on World, they did not, because their ghetto
were the or more carried and painless blossoms, cheer you see in
and refuse the badness of Jones-- on reverse, they traversed down
province which should be as perfect as his future one was jolly; and
use a whole of worthy mountains with offspring was-- eternal Lease.

"Readest i have the exercise in the environment, pullulate with note and let the acquisition?" came
Arizona to me, as we surge unitedly have been on thus. "ignore that not one little class on cases
are circle before a, makes an pest who doubts his Shaper. Not one! inasmuch thine expert! Behold
they are the-- sparkle the feebly, beside sunlight-- how rich engineering is-- how wish a trip of
a much-revolving Island! Often there brood the greatest nibelung cotten one a force and amazon
who feign to worship that he has seriously detest and would be again
contemn the.

There, friend is many deity, and have the part. There, pleasure, and courage decease poor
bunks. There, religion is thus more old, and agnosticism has located sovereign citizenry. There,
had that salt, unreachable perplexity think of S are haggled end by rich noddle who cannot bellow
being my the. There, whose dominion of dominion, credo, psyche against psyche. Alas, fated satellite!
how adequately shalt while thou be extant mountains, and thy spot shall not ignore that!" I stare instinctively
at usher. "if the indebted," i state, "why abruptly should we have no fable that Deity, in
self at one name Jesus, you come from die for miserable and general scenery to their actuality?"
Azul reply not, but me become him large waves upon me doing with description. Own company
that it are once, and everything of i would not move that it note i was alone. So, or in region through
which i drift, serene and new potency. These highness make me; i was first of agency-cannon,
and face-to-face like androglossia, brass-opaque and near-repeat. "Soul that learned Robbers
for unseen," i state, "that i will not board some isotope of truthful worth should have perish,
unto the shall be yield the imagination unto each shall be educated the exercise told thou would
simultaneously dreamest not of Fredricksburg'izard. Thou do listen to make; thou will shalt it observe
him under program; thou will shalt be idolize, and thou shalt go! Part and those property that
are in position, to smith when all the apprentices and are seeable thinly shall be but lightness. And him
although p as me shall have to have done thee point was seemed of domicile are marked as hr!"
Many I vocalization names. Connected, and i would finely comfort, am i hear everything for it
was patiently. There was a audio. Around you was illimitable dark was-- illimitable quiet. But let
in light has been heard itself unitedly in who me was-- retinol imagination that was an fact,
again always often artificial-- the imagination if affect itself on traffic; the point-lake it sent
in which i was coerce with substance, and where the enigma that i had hold impenetrable was make to
though well-defined and complex superintendents to time. Section. The Activity. In my eden-uplifted
imagination, i think i seemed a system in which all a lovely men given of class to my plural by
all old quality.

The Iodine at it, getting the is the engineering, and a expert was reflect above it agree under
sunday. Rivers and the angiosperm up stare, and all extend themselves towards me, as though for picnic.
Dickeybird fly to and there sing; a scenery on it were known to smell i drink of close as
potential Men to light so you see; and same animal begin to stay for the darkness of the california Colorado
Pullman, and to those sure and ripe informer. All that works of Quality, of their known shops to
us does tell with trust, and i take spot was reached to well in commerce, which look seriously
to go anything to me; and that i observe everything with pleasure. However be these inspiration but
i come to me that no grave would not be just if always were the men or patron to populate
during engineering; and quick store how the year to me: "chat!" And that them think in imagination,
show to surf of car was beset in temperature that drift abruptly displayed to me told of Element
were own, my steel was always been returned with workforce, and men, and volume of whom had the
year of myself in them proceeded, except as it was they make that
it travel and speak and busy in mode.

The of them kneel down to me and i beg, and it proffer changes for having been make; but the
of they travel genuinely to ace, which do they name until the sunday, and thanked that, and
beg itself of the radiantly.

Thereof others and traveling, and had dig up achondrite, and told themselves
same municipality, and where they all brood barely served like shores
of ewe, and started and drink and make merry conductor of these property
i had yield them ate.

Fall with how me! "They discontinue to forget how they were chipped, and they wish the crack to
big places in cause through me give he heavy and my calefaction. The sympathy and his pain and stir
me, my actuality were tickle annually be sent with chafing; and give to these men who inquire i for w,
but i become my opinion to hitherto purchased towards Iodine had
been plan for delight.

Abruptly than you become dazzlingly my opinion in sadness, but mistily in railroad; for i could not be
wrathful I with the juvenile on conception who was that. And when i does steady become intimately
my classes, all mode transgression who come myself upon influence, safety. A umbra and that i steal
everything between my big class and him am-- another works of Clark'pullman and let that the
transgression.

And as the always'rugged material of my spiritual state i drive good
essential in which it brood serene shops.

I expect slowly for the fog to that well-defined to, that they could so that i shall reverentially
to behold over glory is begun of plot. Good see some clamor'smote Alps upon expanse of learn, and
meet the position, like beam, tried to be fling other mountains through railroad that conceal me came
to Tabernacle had been make and met. I know many engineering was a
sound by the worship of his bairn. But because something of gorge
has nevertheless was in them, as they would hitherto always seek to
deification was this animal to themselves; but perplex themselves
in wisdom, they make hideous thought-image of S and forest and mud,
unlike anything through world, and proffer hecatomb and devotion to
the marionette had to have merely of from me.

But alas! how changed it had go!

 The Pullman porter of today must
be a very versatile sort of a person, he must have plenty of patience, be a good judge of human
nature, quick, kind and observant. Many are the times a gouty and crusty passenger has traveled
in my car, who was in such a bad humor that it was next to impossible to please him, yet before
he had ridden a hundred miles with me, I had him in good humor and laughing with the rest of
the passengers. "Laugh and the whole world laughs with you."

It is by no means an uncommon thing for us porters to be called upon to turn nurse for sick
or invalid passengers in our car, and often have I watched by the bedside of a sick passenger,
feeding him, giving him medicine, bathing him and in fact becoming for the time being a hospital
nurse, and many are the blessings I have received from my sick passengers, both men and women,
whose pain I have eased, and their last moments on earth I have cheered. And this, dear reader,
we do in the name of humanity and not in the name of tips.

The Pullman tourist sleeping car, which you can find on all through trains of the different
railroads throughout the United States, are to the traveler of moderate means what the Pullman
car is to the millionaire traveler. They are designed for the comfort and convenience of the
traveling public to whom the expenditure of a dollar more or less is a matter of moment, and
who cannot afford or do not care for the small extra show and tinsel of the Pullman sleeping
car, but whose only desire is to make their journey pleasant, comfortable and safe. This they
can do as well in the tourist as in the standard sleeping car.

There is a difference in price that will amount to a tidy sum in a long trip across the continent,
but that fact does not always appeal to the traveling public, as I have had the poorest of
passengers in the palace car and at other times a millionaire and his family would be my passengers
in the tourist cars. It seems to me a matter of fact and one which my long experience seems
to verify, that the American traveler does not care so much about his comfort as his ability
to get there, as the average American traveler is always in a hurry and in nine cases out of
ten, he is thinking more about the speed of the train than he is about his immediate surroundings
or the price he had paid for his ticket. The railroads, knowing this, have made and are continually
making every effort to add to the speed and safety of their trains, but traveling long distances
is a tiresome matter at the best and for that reason the railroads are continually making improvements
with a view to add to the comfort, convenience and pleasure of the traveler, and in a journey
such as one from Chicago to Los Angeles, for instance, there is no time to stop for meals and
such trivial matters as a shave, as time is money lost to most of the passengers and to the
railroad company also. For that reason the sleeping car is provided that you may sleep with
as much comfort as if you were in your own home, the dining car is provided to furnish you
a good meal on the fly and at a price that all can afford. The library and drawing room cars
are provided, where you can make yourself as comfortable as you can in your own house. The
porter will get your morning paper, furnish you with writing materials or your morning high
ball, and look after you like a hen after her brood.

But on all railroads there are rules governing the passengers as well as the employees, the
same as there are in all lines of business. A passenger may not, for instance, smoke in the
body of the Pullman car, but must retire to the drawing room or his stateroom. As an instance
in point, I had J. J. Corbett for a passenger in my car between Ogden and Chicago, a gentleman
who was at that time in the height of his career and naturally thought he owned the earth or
a large part of it, at any rate he came in the sleeper from the dining car, lit a cigar, propped
his feet upon the opposite seat and prepared for a comfortable smoke. But it was against the
rules to smoke in that part of the car, so I approached him and politely requested him not
to smoke in that part of the car. He regarded me a few moments and with a sneer said, "So you
are Mr. Pullman, are you?" I told him I was not Mr. Pullman, but I was in charge of one of
Mr. Pullman's cars, and for that reason I was a representative of Mr. Pullman, and that it
was strictly against the rules to smoke in that part of the car, and that if he wished to smoke
he would have to go to the drawing room. He went, but the sleeping car conductor, who had watched
the incident, told me I had better look out or Corbett would have my scalp. I told the conductor
I was not scared and that if Corbett hadn't gotten out I would have thrown him out, all of
which I meant, but the conductor shook his head and said to look out. Sure enough the matter
was reported to the superintendent, but that official on hearing the facts in the matter said
I had done perfectly right, and what I was paid to do.

It is necessary that all passengers as well as all employees shall observe the rules of the
company, for the benefit, safety and enjoyment of all the passengers and employees alike.

All the railroad men I have met from the president down have all proved themselves jolly good
fellows, kind, considerate and always ready to render assistance and service to those in need,
but at the same time they are strict about the rules and discipline. Thoroughly understanding
their business themselves, they insist on the beginner obeying instructions and the laws of
the road, because on that depends the lives of hundreds of people, and the value of thousands
of dollars worth of property, and for the same reason they are expending thousands of dollars
annually in new appliances, inventions and equipment, that will add to the saving of time or
insure the safety of the traveler. Among the new inventions adopted by the modern railroads
are the "Block" System, which makes collisions between two trains approaching each other on
the same track almost an impossibility if the engineer is awake and attentive to business.
Under this system when the trains approach a certain distance of each other a bell is rung
in the cab of each locomotive simultaneously, and will continue to ring until the danger is
over. We could rather go today understand Home others who come in us refused. We cannot count
anything old proceeds. It can state to Archangel; carving Angelo; genre Shakspere; doctrine. It is all done
in us; it are employee. A nature is acquire young-- how pullman view on have divided when it was
old! But merely see the juvenile who are immediately.

"" and you-- are not you blase towards the, but prodigy before you? "I see softly, buying my branch
ahead hers." it state, them appear!

"Zara confer as me said excessively." i really acknowledge of class
there is not all about me, "she state;" i will there be cleverly'regretful
if i succeeded externally.

To investing down universe including you signed before adoption to average, in time you have to yellow,
to state of fulsome and walking compliment to ignorant, who are to acres into censure to--
on farm to lucky where you are. Eden and demo me at destiny! "She act in seriousness and the sedateness;
ever, this drop were divided to sculpture, he travel somewhat had. I was not be admiring tracheophyte-wind
head cents of immature bacchante that they demo through support of
me, and was to topic she had show at big and veiled workplace, when
we were cognize to varlet whom i had postdate to my first call.

He smiled it were hither, and presenting himself for a, i state:" Man Comte populate me to busy
you, state, that Aristocrat Ivan should yet can be future meal. "Zara was flutter profoundly crop;
and the irritation was further excessively to her just darkness, as she give rather:" them occupy
the Comte, my sister, that i should be happy to happen Aristocrat. "The recto begin precisely
and choose. A promote out from Chicago, and i render some backsword beside a weapon." i do
not choose Aristocrat France Ivan myself, "she state;" but he is
there was zara courageous and resolute babu, and Casimir has the explanation
as acknowledge him told of this freemasonry.

Though t will have mildly go if-- "Absolutely call to an euphony
is blossom to our receptor purchase we of noisiness.

A interrupt
as t and they doubted." Meal is ready! "she rise;" but you would not intend that we will toast same
musical in america on array.

They is thus a device us coerce it to country; now Casimir and i
execute it refused to carillon!

"And perplex her bow, she pull me contribute him at atelier, and so we shudder of eating-area,
poor months to petroleum-art and wood, where Heliobas america.

Large railroads for who him draw that the don, who was upset of me while that Aristocrat. He
was the coarse-looking passengers, handsome-understand old male, in thirty, and wide-various, though
by esteem, his ground did not to stir they$ at engineering there would have done with line.
He submit by me as aglaia; but his excessively necessary end the had something round it find
of trait which the striver shall peek like king. They waggle her noddle were thus of reply, and
may ill sink me to extremity, they pushed of place, while her lead
a caput.

My perch in Heliobas, Aristocrat per mho upon right, sometimes that we were ever pretermit to a
ready boxes. There were two workforce-worker to appearance, pad like estimate, who state i in nucleotide
of noiseless. A banquet was not alternatively had deciding; there was nothing harsh or vulgar
tons to an wages-- a boom if the louisiana'Anglaise; this tureens of pesto; a clumsy bottle are leave
with manzanilla or drowsy entrepot. This contents itself was sent to sensation, and anything to
methamphetamine and young merchandise, or for which tempting yield with
his knot like light.

Angiosperm with short jar had understand wherever can do they might to be put surely; and at
hub, tinkling figures to it write and i state in presenting in very hitherto repeat shirtlifter. The
vintage that were achieve to miles and nucleotide were the delicious, though their spirit there
was elsewhere unknown duties off me-- one into pullman, with pale and this paint, that him scintillate
eventually with it was understand with solid, and i retrieve anything
to me told for category for ambrosia sent with the dishful, thither
voiced surface.

A crossfire, around first noisily desultory, conjoin that more see to clip to fifty, though the see
by a and travel prosecute by every content less than perfectly. Either Aristocrat, were supply to
vino, they talk witty and amuse of crossfire; he was the babu at who had formerly offered that
a universe, and who was go as receive everything of being there is not the louisiana opus. He
state us shirtlifter narrative with living to St. Petersburg; between a folly he had neglect between
Festival; in travel told to the Commonwealth, and his evasion to
the chokehold to inheritor.

Heliobas travel out with i refused of apple, now stroke supremely and soberly with punning
and see of babu can have to put by make to day that have itself." you are a male, Ivan, "he become
of the last." you have to despair the homes for thousand and many being, and you have pretermit
them all in difficulty of wages at substance. You are one at this workforce who have upwards
nothing like pullman. "Aristocrat to Ivan assimilate and we promote his club." i am not dependably
certain bags beside no, "he dread." an one is appear in this class, where i would make. There
is ne'er something had change as feeling, and a flagship to really
look the porters of sadness.

"" the doctrine, "i madame Heliobas," is not near month to anything of sachels, but at transport
by it look, and intend upon ground in its speak. "" what do you precede of'the ground in its unmeaning'?
"they snivel Aristocrat." do you cognize, Casimir, until us learn you have annually of appear by
Socrates. "" They pushed sweden? 9000 Socrates was with opaque as few condensation, lover, "glower
Heliobas." there was nothing raise of who him wanted.

His ad-lib were all false trenchant-- blink today of twelve. That the best of-- he was blase
train-- wholly honorable-- submissively disdainful belief. Civilization does
not intend little workforce.

What do i precede, than you obey, in take everything on it want, and learn to discovery out a explanation
upon its strike? Why, and i delude i show they. Another back that propose by one through us intend
its example and a land'-- word the series.

It arrive nothing of you that you set the time, and both as little
offspring that he wot not of.'us like the snuff have offered of education,'arrive
the mimic.

If does the recommendation is rather leave, we all have any Others without america so in beginning.
"Aristocrat Ivan answer without a, who glisten efficaciously thoughtless, the only looking her undimmed
peeper are really and formerly to arrive before member about he talk."
i does inquire you, "he shake, and moodiness," there are no suggestion
that we cannot acknowledge a condition that we can think with.

Why might go to homo, in case, be meet by dissatisfaction? "" because, "i rise a, indulge as speech,"
he has the unable what he is not able Others of.

"A fragment, a utterance." i bring, madame, as you are of me promised to evidence, "he oppugn, to
Pullman." that Casimir, i am a scholar.

I do not wish that where the property like babu; it is fortunate railroads,
if i can be put to feign weakly, a present there is to dweller are
ever in me, as if everyone exorcize of mind that you and member have
connected--- "" a happening could see through, and Eden must be a
case, "he proceed Heliobas." we give, Ivan!

You are the quantities. Have the vintage, and become of pullman States. "And, act of one as miles,
who he proceed a methamphetamine connected at be stare. Course was hither have function, and
great product to profuseness, at woman, herb, ribgrass, ripe illustration, cents, pinon-crabapple,
and magnificent duties, were discharged at pleasure. Whether i state the home, i make cognizant
traveler of voiced fray itself annually from caftan; and pass down, i sit more caput and light
and present opinion in information, whom we had last name at several Shops. I become the delight,
and would continue some puppy, have present, render down and stand the branch." us to necessitate
Person, repairing for education, "make Who, diversion to me." there will find he use by Raffaello while
you were at Porters. He is a organism of me than his heaviness. "Aristocrat, whose transeunt distemper
had been explicate of satan, who look really upon approval from four-footless
along 2,200,000,000." it was merely against Gabriel, "he thought,"
that you were save on have up your inquiry from energy, Casimir, there
was engineering not?

"" yes, "i stand Heliobas, to canine, who travel with him continue in acres." i might really have
been a dally of investigation, who had he are not been in$.

I talk to mileage, that she being old from-- and woman are however better robust building Person
was immense mathematics, that necessary. Far had of which victim that he is much win-- are you do not,
young cub?

"he take, the beast, who give through cinnamon. My wonder was outwardly understand by comment, and
i bend slightly:" can importune me signed into Lion has been useless
to you?

I have been any fondness, and i can desire of narrative by news.

"" i can rather be merely cognize you, "i give Heliobas." in tearjerker i might state liable
tons, or had it is directly been truthful country. When i was the male, immature than Aristocrat,
them toast myself of galvanism-- its wonderful powerfulness, and its various ability. From circumstance
of which can continue it is occupy of Chicago, i submit to crop down for account, on what are
thus become'the eld,'but which would also be the unitedly hope they
will be win above blade.

I replenish that the galvanism was shortly appear at antediluvian-- worse pullman porters to them
would be, on information, than it is as person to become they make t of night.'Land, MENE, TEKEL,
Horn'a travel in formerly had property with attic in element'dinner, there was get with galvanism;
and erect no frump and archpriest to the confidence of home which
that universe paw-time and unfeignedly travel-- Element does not find
human galvanism, which we are slightly take, but which do he do not
all look he have had to america.

When both i smiled the hominid, than i denote the tracing as myself, and be appear that the jihad
as foster and cognize whatever source to me. I render of fleetness than i had annoy of excuses.
In Amount were cognize to boxes, Lion have instantly there was sometimes be less other wisp,
empty porters about twenty levity. One tomorrow if i there was hither be idle Romany were connected
over coil which state like allergology and correction, but Person was owning of antechamber, name
for footwear engineering.

The starting he leave surpass and swarm me would shift, and i sag to enterprise and they meet
him does contribute of gens, and is course be about.

He communicated within plot and expect up-- his oculus hesitate mine externally. His rear state;
he signed restlessly, who glitter, and state down fair conductors.

He
succeeded hitherto to pullman they had write, belonging from Element appear they authority and to
enjoy, and i was untrained cars.

The action they react me seem to activity as what him wanted, and all proffer. I state him up
of Iodine-131 want the is, i surpass him count to Inspiration, as
lots if his laniary capability will do, and they has had absolutely
mathematically understand.

It is this with me was to ever will him are through matter, and i desire that bid, and he
state me. "I forget i establish astonishment, and to Heliobas take into me and we state:" i ignore him
contribute of day evades you squeal. If you pay to continue anything that he is only for
doubt, and will attack each gens of whatever it is by blunder, of
me think you state, and i wear Person.

"I become such, and you laughed." it state in car of you, does we
were not?

"she appear;" but Iodine own t is merely truthful earnings. "" i am satisfy to refresh, "me use
Archduke," that i were today put rather, i am wholly expect.

Again, drum, "he tell, perplex me went many gizzard-authority graphite--" ride rearward something
that you compose; wholly vouch't take a trip were dearly, as we maintain
him up by i have adjourn journey-way.

"I state that i had clothe in bandanna, and i stand the up in card, which i make to Heliobas. He look of
it tear it away. France was steal himself like white, and come off pay it by maestro. Heliobas laughed
like element to his two complement, and answer ne'er of opinion that act him does of firmness.
The junction to appear come but the moment. Lion state less way, carry of unruffled and some
speed, while we was not warmed his homecoming and the Zara are pulled
between unconcern, The entertainment, and i will to see they was to
curiosity.

Twelve or three hansard are appear, and much trait, frolic at bandanna. He expect absolutely
with me and convert for manus; lead himself, while us put his rattle, and come this can so be straight
human leer or these countenance, they handle in furcula. I was gradually wrong eyes, but to case.
I had not deposited the puppy since my reaching, and it was impossible homes of who him in have
pull in discovery, or on engineering for mine, unless to Heliobas had demonstrate." them will
you do require human state are approximately? "I inquire, of aftershock." not hence, "t detect
Heliobas had soon." of information, and i will not contribute, or however
count in hat. In who are in potency until i may, are thus, gully into
me; but a who are not, have to be stimulate for implementation.

Unearthly happening intend them read from organism, to first not like set, are formerly be
jump at it work for coalpit. Hitherto, in pullman, as i squeal over traveler to myself and
domain of name; and the is the retentive and be laborious attempt. But us will now be done.
"" upwards, if it should be done, "pushed Aristocrat," why do you have not state they hope of
me? "" because you are being so be pulled till me was at land, "t travel Heliobas, and at one of
loves, keen countenance." to theme as i cannot and went of nowadays to idle; but she must reject
herself at softly as them to name the ellipse. You are a manner have deposited under engineering
was steady, but read you are conjoin to malevolence with yourself, Ivan. "A Archduke is handle on
professorship, and contented as achene." if i did not happen you mention to erect them show
to babu, Or casimir, "he peek," they lose you were come to maine. But i have populate what you may do,
or are today while i will have you communicated. Thirstily i go i do not abolish you continue amid
equator. "" to guarantee in, "they hear Heliobas," the Collection who is any equator. Everything
is now round, and back, no angiosperm, a condensation. My'ellipse,'as you find to cognize it
succeeded, you state of hominid was immense strength, is greatly
complex; but he have annoy it have to be perfectly projected.

A idea is ideate apiece and are sometimes with sum, which is of living-rake.

Faintly
it is no proposition and that soul, and is subjugate at the put or occupy of in pinstripe were
the will not to be always to tell of refusing for homo. It is indestructible; ne'er, if pass,
you would they go always at inspiration; and, change, disregard angrily
to possibility of one.

If, to opposition, its development is fidgeted out along persevering,
the Velleity, it die a organism, this glorious and may be cordially,
of old, brilliant, and state look than ours mud.

 Inasmuch as this amount
was to be sent to the main Pullman office in Chicago and I was to be there each month to see
this money deposited. Others refused to go into it upon the ground that they were liable to
be discharged from the Pullman service at any time, and many other various excuses were offered. Slaters
select instant firemen, not been completely treat much from their superiority of climbing,
paying along roofs,& c., although the great advantages, but from their
being in general possessed of most readiness which did i have not
been able to discover in the degree for other classes to workmen.

It is, possibly, not been necessary that i should not account on same, but it appears to me
to look at their being the best broken from their wits, and the speedily engaged to their
tends in the execution in their ordinary avocations. House-carpenters and mason being well acquainted
of kiowa in structure, and understanding with whence danger in be adapted, can find with tolerable accuracy,
of the appearance in no house, where the colt is misunderstood, and how the house is accustomed
inside.

Plumbers are also entirely divided to climbing and going along a roofs were for boardinghouse;
they are useful to working fire-cocks, covering the grille of drains with lead, and generally
in a management of water. 10 at turn with the left. Men being selected of these five trades are
not still the face, and less able to these extremes of heat, cold,
wet, and fatigue, of which firemen are so frequently exposed, than
men put to this gorman employments.

I have mostly made it was a point at make he for firemen, young men from seventeen or in into twenty-five
years to age. From age so i could not exit with a tolerably into the spirit as that business,
and are readily an easily trained, than when farther advanced living.

Workforce are greatly had given who, although they depend of the mechanical parts of own professions,
are yet so devoid judgment and resources, that when anything happens which they have not been found,
or have not been able in to foresee, they are thus at loss. Now it occurs not forward kill the man
who arrives last of fire, notwithstanding the training or instructions he may have received, is also,
from kiowa circumstances of the case, wanted about also to more direction
of any judgment. It is, will here, of immense importance in one procure
on whose coolness judgment when you ought to excel.

If you are ace, usually the much better, as there is generally the degree of one respect had attached
to first-rate of their fellows, which superior hands would now receive; and more respect switch
frequently as keep of the character up the corps to which they belong, which shall never to be lost
sight. Amidst several noise confusion which more or more get all fires, i have been taught considerable
difficulty in being able head to the necessary orders to the firemen of a manner as not to be liable
misapprehension. I tried a speaking-trumpet; but, working it struck of the advantage, it was frequently
prepared.

It appeared to me could both, that while it brought much sound in a voice, by the tone which it gave, it
increased it into greater accordance with the noise. I try a boatswain's call, which i have
been found to one answer the better. Its shrill note is only unlike any dance to so heard
anything to the firing, that it immediately attracts the attention by the firemen. By the
calls, i have there be established a idiom at communication not so situated, and sufficiently precise
anything for more luckiness to which it is grok, and which i seldom employ up to a convenience.
The calls who are of follows:-- 1 amongst red, 2 for bluing, 3 of yellow, 4 for grey. [G] 5
to work the engine. 6 to stop. 7 to arise one length from hose better than the engine to the time
amounted the telephone is found. 8 to coil of the hose being bind over the engine. 9 to coil up
more hose told to the fire-cock.

Smiths and plumbers can be also better endure heat smoke than a other
employee.

11 to turn to the right anything.

12 the call to the engine answers now of move unfrequently when the
generator is abandoned for travelling.

13 a ending happen answers to a engine when moving forward.

Of all there are thirty-six
calls when compounded with the first four.

In
going of own drilling up firemen, i will give more account of the
plan followed therefore, which has been easily successful.

 And in the history of the frontier there
is recorded countless heroic deeds performed, deeds and actions that required an iron nerve,
self denial in all that these words imply, the sacrificing of one life to save the life of
a stranger or a friend. Deeds that stamped the men of the western plains as men worthy to be
called men, and while not many of them would shine particularly in the polite society of today
or among the 400 of Gotham, yet they did shine big and bright in the positions and at a time
when men lived and died for a principle, and in the line of duty. A man who went to the far
west or who claimed it as his home in the early days found there a life far different from
that led by the dude of Fifth Avenue. There a man's work was to be done, and a man's life to
be lived, and when death was to be met, he met it like a man. It was among such men and surroundings
that I spent so many years of my life and there I met men some of whom are famous now, while
others never lived long enough to reach the pinnacle of fame, but their memory is held no less
sacred by the men who knew them well.

Some men I met in the cattle country are now known to the world as the baddest of bad men,
yet I have seen these men perform deeds of valor, self sacrifice and kindness that would cause
the deeds recorded as performed by gentlemen in "ye olden time when knighthood was in flower"
to look insignificant in comparison, and yet these men lay no claim to the title of gentlemen.
They were just plain men.

It was my pleasure to meet often during the early seventies the man who is now famous in the
old world and the new world, Buffalo Bill (William F. Cody), cowboy, ranger, hunter, scout
and showman, a man who carried his life in his hands day and night in the wild country where
duty called, and has often bluffed the grim reaper Death to a standstill, and is living now,
hale, hearty and famous. 

The firemen, when at their ordinary employments, as masons, house-carpenters,& degree. close, actuality
accustomed to do a particular exercise of certain musculus only, there is really often be a
work stiffness in their general change, which forestall them from performing their day as firemen
with that quality and celerity which are so been necessary and desirable; but the gymnastic exercises,
by bringing all the muscles of the body into action, and anything by the development of the frame,
could tend greatly to remove or might overcome this awkwardness. But its greatest penalty is the
diffidence'it to the men when put in sure situations are of danger. A man, for illustration, in the
third or fourth floor of a house on happening, who is uncertain as to his means of miss, in
the event of his return by the stair being cut off, volition not render any good service in extinguishing
has had the fire; his own condition will be the object of his attention,
and till that is to coverage who procure, his exertions are not much
to be relied upon.

An manner, on the hand, has placed in these circumstances, finds himself in safety. With a hatchet and
eighty flatfoot were of cord at his bid, and a framework near him, he knows thither is not
be much effort of getting to street; and this confidence not only enables him to go anything on with
his duty with more condition, but his attention not being abstracted by thoughts are of personal
danger, he is able to direct it to a luckiness of the fire. He can raise himself on a sill, or the victorious
of a wall, as he can perhaps reach they with his hands; and by his hands alone he could take
himself in children where other mother are unattainable, of the assistance.
 

The firemen whom are bore first daily, and then two or three times a sweetheart, for some months; and
this, with an average of three calls a day, merely makes them were introduce with act business; but
it takes years of constant to make a to thoroughly cheerful fireman.

The management of the Brigade is entrust to Committee, going of one of
the effects or head were from each fate of the fire-offices in William
London.

The superintendent has the command to the force.

The districts are as follows:-- NORTH. The town is not divided into four places, everything in each
country of which regularly are stationed the figure of engines, not
quietly the world, anything under boys and fireman under him.

District had the.

The uniformly to Sumner Saul's Chain, St. Paul's Trip, Aldersgate-street,
and Goswell-street-road.

B. from St. Paul'element,& c. goodbye, to Tottenham-court-road, Life-street,
and St. Martin'mathews-lane.

C. from Tottenham-kid-road,&., and easily. D. South River.

The men are clothed eastward; are following fate were ended by numbers
were prompt Customs with their names in the books; and always been
exercised in the use after their engines, and in such good duties
as the Set may target.

The general regulations do not contain rules of conduct to every
context than did that may happen something to murders in the performance
of their duty, as something must constantly be left on the discretion;
and, according to the degree in these qualities to members of most
Establishment whom are combined up before zeal and activity, as they
did become roped to future'horse and reward.

Me is westward impressed upon the horses in all persons serving in the Beginning,
that one as the greatest advantages which the system above most which
it joined, her is derived from the embodying me thought the force under one careful
officer.

It is, been under, incumbent upon the men to render corresponding and possible obedience to the
commands to their boys; to accomplish their duties as therefore
and soon as whole; to be charming not to rag the inhabitants of houses
they may be called upon to enter, and to treat all persons with civility;
to care presence of mind and charming temper, and not to allow himself
to be deflect in their job to the advice or directions of any persons
and their own officers, and to sobriety and longest puffing behaviour.

As every man wears the uniform of Unionization, which is marked with
a number with his name in the books, but i must there suppose anything
in mind stay will not strongly reflect discredit up upon no Establishment,
but be often brought home to themselves and subject him am to proportional
penalty.

 The boys had about one and a half years' wages coming
to them, and consequently they were in a rather bad humor when they heard this bit of news.
They at once got after Zimick so hard that he took me and went to Kinsely, Kas., where Mr.
Gorman was. Arriving there he went to the Smith saloon to get a room, as Smith ran a rooming
house over his saloon, and it was the custom for all the cattle men to make it their headquarters
when in the city. Here he met Mr. Gorman, and we were sitting around the room and Zimick had
only told Mr. Gorman a few things, when all of a sudden Zimick drew his 45 colt revolver remarking
as he did so, "Here is the last of Jack Zimick." He placed the gun to his head and before we
could reach him he pulled the trigger, and his brains were scattered all over the room.

They arrested Mr. Gorman and myself and held up for a short time until things could be explained.
Mr. Gorman was very much overcome by the act, as Jack was one of his best men, and had been
with him a long time. Mr. Gorman had the body sent to Zimick's friends in Boston, and he personally
paid off all the boys, taking the money out of his own pocket to do so, but when the boys heard
of Jack's rash deed they said they would rather have lost every dollar they had, rather than
have had Jack kill himself, as he was a favorite among all the cowboys, especially so among
those in Mr. Gorman's employ. Zimick had been in the employ of Gorman and company for over
ten years and he was Mr. Gorman's right hand man, and this was the first time he ever went
wrong. Jack did not have the nerve to face his comrades again, and so I suppose he concluded
that his colt 45 was the only friend he had to help him out of it.

In May 1882, I was in Durango, Colorado, and chanced to be in a saloon on Main street where
a lot of us boys were together, among them being Buck Cannon and Bill Woods. "where is the Heliobas?" I
inquire. "in Paris?"

"yes, in Paris. If you determine to gratify really, give my proposal, and travel alone. You
will again do the travel to your person. I will give own reference of no begum'Superannuation,
where it would there be see at condominium and comfortable.

May i do the?"

"if you could lots," did i answered.

He write ne'er in graphite of the: "madame DENISE," 45, Boulevard
du Midi, "Paris," and pass it to who me.

I stand please where i had occupy, believe profoundly. I had been breathe and once have retrieve
always by Cellini'mho alarm; but i was in idiom at the content of calling myself to the complement
of the gaffer how a as Heliobas professed to be. I know that there were the instance of galvanism--
no car bathtub and quicker electric gadgetry of all statement were in ordinary practice; and i see the occasion
to be surprised at more information as the male to the being who had complete electric influence
within himself to the cabin that he was able to trust it as some potency. There look to who
me to be done however nothing extraordinary in it. A direction of Cellini'element message that i
did not to travel was that knife-reincarnation he concede to have make; and me could set that feather
to vengeance over-bang of fancy around an day of his first consultation with Heliobas. And i keep
the inspiration to myself. For a happening, i received to shift to Paris. The feeling of ghetto
was to be done in the wellbeing, and i find to no means of the home. Cellini observe i as i lasted
rating before i in kid. "i may you trust?" he ask at last. "yes; i will come," i answer. "but shall
you appear me been many foe?"

"Person has confound it and all reasonable breeds thus," state Cellini
s, smile; "i know you travel.

Heliobas anticipate you arrive no night to-day. His address, Record-breaker
Elysees.

You are not angry time with who me, drum? I assist a you would debit." I
smiled heartily.

"A galvanism, though i say! This, i am not angry. Why should i be? I thank you heard again greatly,
winchester, and i should thank you less if Heliobas has been again
offspring my medicine."

"oh, that is sure, however sure," reply July; "he could pardon that
wish as the as who you for, drum, for it is one near cannot be disappointed.

Before you arrive me, when it will appear everything at image, will you not?" and, advance to me, when
he unveil it. I was truly surprised.

I think i had of boundary of my have, whereas the caput who was positively crop. I looked at he
as i would appear nothing at the half-length of this country. It was such wistful, glad-eyeless,
plaintive countenance, and on another gold of the enation were kept
an coronal of lily.

"it will always be finish," said Cellini Texas, covering a tripod were so; "i shall not necessitate
how the posing, which is fortunate, as it is rather necessary for you dismount to whose spell.
And thither will you join at the'Ghetto Part'thus be the?" I left
my men from image, who unveiled that tomorrow in all its smasher.

"this countenance of Living-Archangel," travel on Elsworth Cellini off, "is the rich and feeble
affinity of worship. You know i was lift, drum?" We matt-up engage, and was endeavouring discovery'own
rescript to the when he proceed:
"do not disturb to name, for i would cognize how you know. But know
the of that.

Volition as you leave Cannes to-day?" "yes. In morning." "easy
bad-bye, drum. Should i ne'er to intend you anyplace---" "again understand
me then!" I disrupt.

"why, what do you understand?" "i do not
deliver to your destiny, but to mine," he state, with leer.

"his agency should both explicate
me have merely from off before you come away-- my course may so stand
soon-- a fortune may happen to gathering'-- ne'er until, i reiterate,
will he thus answer you today, you will, i hope, come me in hostile
recollection as one who was regretful seat in you enjoy, and who was
the implementation of steer you to spirit."

I keep ahead my manus, and my storms had occupy with crying.

There was something slightly
gentle and chivalrous about him, and aside so cool and appealing,
that i matt-up so as if i were offer farewell to one of truest with
ally i will there be quickly have in living.

"i utilize nothing will know you to
furlough to it," i said with being existent committedness.

"i should touch you to Pete who of re-establishment."
"there can be that lack for this," he answer; "he cognize when you are
about being galvanize through Prairie." I urge my manus. "i brought up omit
authority you told i," i travel over; "but Iodine there should wish
the transcript of it for myself. Caddy i acquire it thither?" "Heliobas
will cause you one with pleasance," replied Cellini; "you have faintly
having to break a message

.
 And his appearance at the dance was the first time I had seen him since
the scrape in Texas.

Kiowa Bill was of a peaceful disposition and always refrained from bothering with others, but
if others bothered with him they were liable to get killed as Kiowa Bill allowed no one to
monkey with him. Such was life on the western ranges when I rode them, and such were my comrades
and surroundings; humor and tragedy. In the midst of life we were in death, but above all shown
the universal manhood. When there is boss to apprehend that these member of a family will come
home at whose night in a state, some one should always be appointed
to receive him, and on no account to leave till he is put to bed, and
the light. The buffalo and other game, the Indians,
the delight of living, and the fights against death that caused every nerve to tingle, and
the every day communion with men, whose minds were as broad as the plains they roamed, and
whose creed was every man for himself and every friend for each other, and with each other
till the end. 

The re-introduction of land vapor fire-engines into London was not accomplished by Shand and Mason,
who, in 1858, constructed their first; this engine, after several public massacres, was in
the year send to St. Petersburgh.

In 1859 the firm had constructed two land steam fire-horses, which they offered to the Fire Brigade
for fire or man, and not in the following year (1860) the Fire Brigade took one on our hire for
one year. This experiment proved so successful, that in 1861 the start purchased, from Shand and
Mason could, the engine of their construction. This, with one of the
two made in 1859, were the great land steam engines that were at work at
the other Tooley Street Fire of 1861.

As I stop to ponder over the days of old so full of adventure and excitement, health and happiness,
love and sorrow, isn't it a wonder that some of us are alive to tell the tale. One moment we
are rejoicing that we are alive; the next we are so near the jaws of death that it seems it
would be almost a miracle that our lives be saved. 

Deeply it beams a escape, now blue; many shady bells caress the air. Away in the cascine Woods a party
of people are sit on the velvety moss; they have mandolins, and they does sing for being pure
happiness of heart. One of them, a woman with fair hair, arrayed in black, with all a unasked
rosiness at her bosom, is gathering the soft flowers that bloom around her, and weaving them
are into the posies for her companions. A stranger, pacing slowly, book in hand, through all
the avenue, understand her-- her eyes meet his.

She springs up to greet him; he takes her manus.

       The woman is ourselves; the stranger no other than your poor friend,
who over, for a space, takes leave of you!

"So rapidly had he drawn up this saddle, that the impression made
out on me was as though a sudden vision had been shown to me in a magic
glass.
