The average wages of the workmen can be more easily fixed. Contracts dated in the reign of
Khammurabi, the Amraphel of Genesis, and found at Sippara, show that it was at the rate of
about 4 shekels a year, the laborer’s food being usually thrown in as well. Thus in one of
these contracts we read: “Rimmon-bani has hired Sumi-izzitim for his brother, as a laborer,
for three months, his wages to be one shekel and a half of silver, three measures of flour,
and 1 qa and a half of oil. There shall be no withdrawal from the agreement. Ibni-amurru and
Sikni-Anunit have endorsed it. Another contract of the same age is of much the same tenor.
“Nur-Rimmon has taken Idiyatum, the son of Ili-kamma, from Naram-bani, to work for him for
a year at a yearly wage of 4½ shekels of silver. At the beginning of the month Sebat, Idiyatum
shall enter upon his service, and in the month Iyyar it shall come to an end and he shall quit
it. Witnessed by Beltani, the daughter of Araz-za; by Beltani, the daughter of Mudadum; by
Amat-Samas, the daughter of Asarid-ili; by Arad-izzitim, the son of Samas-mutasi; and by Amat-Bau,
the priestess (?); the year when the Temple of the Abundance of Rimmon (was built by Khammurabi).”
It will be noticed that with one exception the witnesses to this document are all women.

There was but little rise in wages in subsequent centuries. A butcher was paid only 1 shekel
for a month’s work in the third year of Cambyses, as has been noticed above, and even skilled
labor was not much better remunerated. In the first year of Cambyses, for instance, only half
a shekel was paid for painting the stucco of a wall, though in the same year 67 shekels (£10
1s.) were given to a seal-cutter for a month’s labor. Slavery prevented wages from rising by
flooding the labor market, and the free artisan had to compete with a vast body of slaves.
Hence it was that unskilled work was still so commonly paid in kind rather than in coin, and
that the workman was content if his employer provided him with food. Thus in the second year
of Nabonidos we are told that the “coppersmith,” Libludh, received 7 qas (about 8½ quarts)
of flour for overlaying a chariot with copper, and in the seventeenth year of the same reign
half a shekel of silver and 1 gur of wheat from the royal storehouse were paid to five men
who had brought a flock of sheep to the King’s administrator in the city of Ruzabu. The following
laconic letter also tells the same tale: “Letter from Tabik-zeri to Gula-ibni, my brother.
Give 54 qas of meal to the men who have dug the canal. The 9th of Nisan, fifth year of Cyrus,
King of Eridu, King of the World.” The employer had a right to the workman’s labor so long
as he furnished him with food and clothing.

CHAPTER VII. THE MONEY-LENDER AND BANKER

Among the professions of ancient Babylonia, money-lending held a foremost place. It was, in
fact, one of the most lucrative of professions, and was followed by all classes of the population,
the highest as well the lowest. Members of the royal family did not disdain to lend money at
high rates of interest, receiving as security for it various kinds of property. It is true
that in such cases the business was managed by an agent; but the lender of the money, and not
the agent, was legally responsible for all the consequences of his action, and it was to him
that all the profits went.

The money-lender was the banker of antiquity. In a trading community like that of Babylonia,
where actual coin was comparatively scarce, and the gigantic system of credit which prevails
in the modern world had not as yet come into existence, it was impossible to do without him.
The taxes had to be paid in cash, which was required by the government for the payment of a
standing army, and a large body of officials. The same causes which have thrown the fellahin
of modern Egypt into the hands of Greek usurers were at work in ancient Babylonia.

In some instances the money-lender founded a business which lasted for a number of generations
and brought a large part of the property of the country into the possession of the firm. This
was notably the case with the great firm of Egibi, established at Babylon before the time of
Sennacherib, which in the age of the Babylonian empire and Persian conquest became the Rothschilds
of the ancient world. It lent money to the state as well as to individuals, it undertook agencies
for private persons, and eventually absorbed a good deal of what was properly attorney’s business.
Deeds and other legal documents belonging to others as well as to members of the firm were
lodged for security in its record-chambers, stored in the great earthenware jars which served
as safes. The larger part of the contract-tablets from which our knowledge of the social life
of later Babylonia is derived has come from the offices of the firm.

In the early days of Babylonia the interest upon a loan was paid in kind.

But the introduction of a circulating medium goes back to an ancient date, and it was not long
before payment in grain or other crops was replaced by its equivalent in cash. Already before
the days of Amraphel and Abraham, we find contracts stipulating for the payment of so many
silver shekels per month upon each maneh lent to the borrower. Thus we have one written in
Semitic-Babylonian which reads: “Kis-nunu, the son of Imur-Sin, has received one maneh and
a half of silver from Zikilum, on which he will pay 12 shekels of silver (a month). The capital
and interest are to be paid on the day of the harvest as guaranteed. Dated the year when Immerum
dug the Asukhi canal.” Then follow the names of three witnesses.

The obligation to repay the loan on “the day of the harvest” is a survival from the time when
all payments were in kind, and the creditor had a right to the first-fruits of the debtor’s
property. A contract dated in the reign of Khammurabi, or Amraphel, similarly stipulates that
interest on a loan made to a certain Arad-ilisu by one of the female devotees of the Sun-god,
should be paid into the treasury of the temple of Samas “on the day of the harvest.” The interest
was reckoned at so much a month, as in the East to-day; originally it had to be paid at the
end of each month, according to the literal terms of the agreement, but as time went on it
became usual to reserve the payment to the end of six months or a year. It was only where the
debtor was not considered trustworthy or the security was insufficient that the literal interpretation
of the agreement was insisted on.

The rate of interest, as was natural, tended to be lower with the lapse of time and the growth
of wealth. In the age of the Babylonian empire and the Persian conquest the normal rate was,
however, still as high as 1 shekel a month upon each maneh, or twenty per cent. But we have
a contract dated in the fifth year of Nebuchadnezzar in which a talent of silver is lent, and
the interest charged upon it is not more than half a shekel per month on the maneh, or ten
per cent. Three years later, in another contract, the rate of interest is stated to be five-sixths
of a shekel, or sixteen and two-thirds per cent, while in the fifteenth year of Samas-sum-yukin
the interest upon a loan of 16 shekels is only a quarter of a shekel. At this time Babylonia
was suffering from the results of its revolt from Assyria, which may explain the lowness of
the rate of interest. At all events, six years earlier, Remut, one of the members of the Egibi
firm, lent a sum of money to a man and his wife without charging any interest at all upon it,
and stipulating only that the money should be repaid when the land was again prosperous.

At times, however, money was lent upon the understanding that interest would be charged upon
it only if it were not repaid by a specified date. Thus in the ninth year of Samas-sum-yukin
half a maneh was lent by Suma to Tukubenu on the fourth of Marchesvan, or October, upon which
no interest was to be paid up to the end of the following Tisri, or September, which corresponded
with “the day of the harvest” of the older contracts; but after that, if the money were still
unpaid, interest at the rate of half a shekel a month, or ten per cent., would be charged.
At other times the interest was paid by the year, as with us, and not by the month; in this
case it was at a lower rate than the normal twenty per cent. In the fourteenth year of Nabopolassar,
for example, a maneh of silver was lent at the rate of 7 shekels on each maneh per annum—that
is to say, at eleven and two-thirds per cent.—and under Nebuchadnezzar money was borrowed at
annual interest of 8 shekels for each maneh, or thirteen and one-third per cent.

Full security was taken for a loan, and the contract relating to it was attested by a number
of witnesses. Thus the following contract was drawn up in the third year of Nabonidos, a loan
of a maneh of silver having been made by one of the members of the Egibi firm to a man and
his wife: “One maneh of silver, the property of Nadin-Merodach, the son of Iqisa-bel, the son
of Nur-sin, has been received by Nebo-baladan, the son of Nadin-sumi, and Bau-ed-herat, the
daughter of Samas-ebus. In the month Tisri (September) they shall repay the money and the interest
upon it. Their upper field, which adjoins that of Sum-yukin, the son of Sa-Nebo-sû, as well
as the lower field, which forms the boundary of the house of the Seer, and is planted with
palm-trees and grass, is the security of Nadin-Merodach, to which (in case of insolvency) he
shall have the first claim. No other creditor shall take possession of it until Nadin-Merodach
has received in full the capital and interest. In the month Tisri the dates which are then
ripe upon the palms shall be valued, and according to the current price of them at the time
in the town of Sakhrin, Nadin-Merodach shall accept them instead of interest at the rate of
thirty-six qas (fifty quarts) the shekel (3s.). The money is intended to pay the tax for providing
the soldiers of the king of Babylon with arms. Witnessed by Nebo-bel-sunu, the son of Bau-akhi,
the son of Dahik; Nebo-dîni-ebus, the son of Kinenunâ; Nebo-zira-usabsi, the son, Samas-ibni
Bazuzu, the son of Samas-ibni; Merodach-erba, the son of Nadin; and the scribe Bel-iddin, the
son of Bel-yupakhkhir, the son of Dabibu. Dated at Sakhrinni, the 28th day of Iyyar (April),
the third year of Nabonidos, King of Babylon.”

In Assyria the rate of interest was a good deal higher than it was in Babylonia. It is true
that in a contract dated 667 B.C., one of the parties to which was the son of the secretary
of the municipality of Dur-Sargon, the modern Khorsabad, it is twenty per cent., as in Babylonia,
but this is almost the only case in which it is so. Elsewhere, in deeds dated 684 B.C., 656,
and later, the rate is as much as twenty-five per cent., while in one instance—a deed dated
711 B.C.—it rises to thirty-three and a third per cent. Among the witnesses to the last-mentioned
deed are two “smiths,” one of whom is described as a “coppersmith,” and the other bears the
Armenian name of Sihduri or Sarduris. The money is usually reckoned according to the standard
of Carchemish. That the rate of interest should have been higher in Assyria than in Babylonia
is not surprising. Commerce was less developed there, and the attention of the population was
devoted rather to war and agriculture than to trade. It seems to have been the conquest of
Western Asia, the subjugation of the Phœnician cities, and above all the incorporation of Babylonia
in the empire, which introduced a commercial spirit into Nineveh, and made it in the latter
days of its existence an important centre of trade. Indeed, one of the objects of the Assyrian
campaigns in Syria was to divert the trade of the Mediterranean into Assyrian hands; the fall
of Carchemish made Assyria mistress of the caravan-road which led across the Euphrates, and
of the commerce which had flowed from Asia Minor, while the ruin of Tyre and Sidon meant prosperity
to the merchants of Nineveh. Nevertheless, the native population of Assyria was slow to avail
itself of the commercial advantages which had fallen to it, and a large part of its trading
classes were Arameans or other foreigners who had settled in the country. So large, indeed,
was the share in Assyrian trade which the Arameans absorbed that Aramaic became the lingua
panca, the common medium of intercommunication, in the commercial world of the second Assyrian
empire, and, as has been already stated, many of the Assyrian contract-tablets are provided
with Aramaic dockets, which give a brief abstract of their contents.

A memorandum signed by “Basia, the son of Rikhi,” furnishes us with the relative value of gold
and silver in the age of Nebuchadnezzar. “Two shekels and a quarter of gold for twenty-five
shekels and three-quarters of silver, one shekel worn and deficient in weight for seven shekels
of silver, two and a quarter shekels, also worn, for twenty-two and three-quarters shekels
of silver; in all five and a half shekels of gold for fifty-five and a half shekels of silver.”
Gold, therefore, at this time would have been worth about eleven times more than silver. A
few years later, however, in the eleventh year of Nabonidos, the proportion had risen and was
twelve to one. We learn this from a statement that the goldsmith Nebo-edhernapisti had received
in that year, on the 10th day of Ab, 1 shekel of gold, in 5-shekel pieces, for 12 shekels of
silver. The coinage, if we may use such a term, was the same in both metals, the talent being
divided into 60 manehs and the maneh into 60 shekels. There seems also to have been a bronze
coinage, at all events in the later age of Assyria and Babylonia, but the references to it
are very scanty, and silver was the ordinary medium of exchange. One of the contract-tablets,
however, which have come from Assyria and is dated in the year 676 B.C., relates to the loan
of 2 talents of bronze from the treasury of Istar at Arbela, which were to be repaid two months
afterward. Failing this, interest was to be charged upon them at the rate of thirty-three and
a third per cent., and it is implied that the payment was to be in bronze.

The talent, maneh, and shekel were originally weights, and had been adopted by the Semites
from their Sumerian predecessors. They form part of that sexagesimal system of numeration which
lay at the root of Babylonian mathematics and was as old as the invention of writing. So thoroughly
was sixty regarded as the unit of calculation that it was denoted by the same single wedge
or upright line as that which stood for “one.” Wherever the sexagesimal system of notation
prevailed we may see an evidence of the influence of Babylonian culture.

It was the maneh, however, and not the talent, which was adopted as the standard. The talent,
in fact, was too heavy for such a purpose; it implied too considerable an amount of precious
metal and was too seldom employed in the daily business of life. The Babylonian, accordingly,
counted up from the maneh to the talent and down to the shekel.

The standard weight of the maneh, which continued in use up to the latest days of Babylonian
history, had been fixed by Dungi, of the dynasty of Ur, about 2700 B.C. An inscription on a
large cone of dark-green stone, now in the British Museum, tells us that the cone represents
“one maneh standard weight, the property of Merodach-sar-ilani, and a duplicate of the weight
which Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, the son of Nabopolassar, king of Babylon, had made in
exact imitation of the standard weight established by the deified Dungi, an earlier king.”
The stone now weighs 978.309 grammes, which, making the requisite deductions for the wear and
tear of time, would give 980 grammes, or rather more than 2 pounds 2 ounces avoirdupois. The
Babylonian maneh, as fixed by Dungi and Nebuchadnezzar, thus agrees in weight rather with the
Hebrew maneh of gold than with the “royal” maneh, which was equivalent to 2 pounds 7½ ounces.

It was not, however, the only maneh in use in Babylonia. Besides the “heavy” or “royal” maneh
there was also a “light” maneh, like the Hebrew silver maneh of 1 pound 11 ounces, while the
Assyrian contract-tablets make mention of “the maneh of Carchemish,” which was introduced into
Assyria after the conquest of the Hittite capital in 717 B.C. Mr. Barclay V. Head has pointed
out that this latter maneh was known in Asia Minor as far as the shores of the Ægean, and that
the “tongues” or bars of silver found by Dr. Schliemann on the site of Troy are shekels made
in accordance with it.(8)

A similar “tongue” of gold “of fifty shekels weight” is referred to in Josh. vii. 21, in connection
with that “goodly Babylonish garment” which was carried away by Achan from among the spoils
of Jericho. It is probable that the shekels and manehs of Babylonia were originally cast in
the same tongue-like form. In Egypt they were in the shape of rings and spirals, but there
is no evidence that the use of the latter extended beyond the valley of the Nile. In Western
Asia it was rather bars of metal that were employed.

At first the value of the bar had to be determined by its being weighed each time that it changed
hands. But it soon came to be stamped with an official indication of its weight and value.
A Cappadocian tablet found near Kaisariyeh, which is at least as early as the age of the Exodus
and may go back to that of Abraham, speaks of “three shekels of sealed” or “stamped silver.”
In that distant colony of Babylonian civilization, therefore, an official seal was already
put upon some of the money in circulation. In the time of Nebuchadnezzar the coinage was still
more advanced. There were “single shekel” pieces, pieces of “five shekels” and the like, all
implying that coins were issued representing different fractions of the maneh. The maneh itself
was divided into pieces of five-sixths, two-thirds, one-third, one-half, one-quarter, and three-quarters.
It is often specified whether a sum of money is to be paid in single shekel pieces or in 5-shekel
pieces, and the word “stamped” is sometimes added. The invention of a regular coinage is generally
ascribed to the Lydians; but it was more probably due to the Babylonians, from whom both Lydians
and Greeks derived their system of weights as well as the term mina or maneh.

The Egibi firm was not the only great banking or trading establishment of which we know in
ancient Babylonia. The American excavators at Niffer have brought to light the records of another
firm, that of Murasu, which, although established in a provincial town and not in the capital,
rose to a position of great wealth and influence under the Persian kings Artaxerxes I. (464-424
B.C.) and Darius II. (424-405 B.C.). The tablets found at Tello also indicate the existence
of similarly important trading firms in the Babylonia of 2700 B.C., though at this period trade
was chiefly confined to home products, cattle and sheep, wool and grain, dates and bitumen.

The learned professions were well represented. The scribes were a large and powerful body,
and in Assyria, where education was less widely diffused than in Babylonia, they formed a considerable
part of the governing bureaucracy. In Babylonia they acted as librarians, authors, and publishers,
multiplying copies of older books and adding to them new works of their own. They served also
as clerks and secretaries; they drew up documents of state as well as legal contracts and deeds.
They were accordingly responsible for the forms of legal procedure, and so to some extent occupied
the place of the barristers and attorneys of to-day. The Babylonian seems usually, if not always,
to have pleaded his own case; but his statement of it was thrown into shape by the scribe or
clerk like the final decision of the judges themselves. Under Nebuchadnezzar and his successors
such clerks were called “the scribes of the king,” and were probably paid out of the public
revenues. Thus in the second year of Evil-Merodach it is said of the claimants to an inheritance
that “they shall speak to the scribes of the king and seal the deed,” and the seller of some
land has to take the deed of quittance “to the scribes of the king,” who “shall supervise and
seal it in the city.” Many of the scribes were priests; and it is not uncommon to find the
clerk who draws up a contract and appears as a witness to be described as “the priest” of some
deity.

The physician is mentioned at a very early date. Thus we hear of “Ilu-bani, the physician of
Gudea,” the High-priest of Lagas (2700 B.C.), and a treatise on medicine, of which fragments
exist in the British Museum, was compiled long before the days of Abraham. It continued to
be regarded as a standard work on the subject even in the time of the second Assyrian empire,
though its prescriptions are mixed up with charms and incantations. But an attempt was made
in it to classify and describe various diseases, and to enumerate the remedies that had been
proposed for them. The remedies are often a compound of the most heterogeneous drugs, some
of which are of a very unsavory nature. However, the patient, or his doctor, is generally given
a choice of the remedies he might adopt. Thus for an attack of spleen he was told either to
“slice the seed of a reed and dates in palm-wine,” or to “mix calves’ milk and bitters in palm-wine,”
or to “drink garlic and bitters in palm-wine.” “For an aching tooth,” it is laid down, “the
plant of human destiny (perhaps the mandrake) is the remedy; it must be placed upon the tooth.
The fruit of the yellow snakewort is another remedy for an aching tooth; it must be placed
upon the tooth.… The roots of a thorn which does not see the sun when growing is another remedy
for an aching tooth; it must be placed upon the tooth.” Unfortunately it is still impossible
to assign a precise signification to most of the drugs that are named, or to identify the various
herbs contained in the Babylonian pharmacopœia.

As time passed on, the charms and other superstitious practices which had at first played so
large a part in Babylonian medicine fell into the background and were abandoned to the more
uneducated classes of society. The conquest of Western Asia by the Egyptian Pharaohs of the
eighteenth dynasty brought Babylonia into contact with Egypt, where the art of medicine was
already far advanced. It is probable that from this time forward Babylonian medicine also became
more strictly scientific. We have indeed evidence that the medical system and practice of Egypt
had been introduced into Asia. When the great Egyptian treatise on medicine, known as the Papyrus
Ebers, was written in the sixteenth century B.C., one of the most fashionable oculists of the
day was a “Syrian” of Gebal, and as the study of the disease of the eye was peculiarly Egyptian,
we must assume that his science had been derived from the valley of the Nile. It must not be
supposed, however, that the superstitious beliefs and practices of the past were altogether
abandoned, even by the most distinguished practitioners, any more than they were by the physicians
of Europe in the early part of the last century. But they were invoked only when the ordinary
remedies had failed, and when no resource seemed left except the aid of spiritual powers. Otherwise
the doctor depended upon his diagnosis of the disease and the prescriptions which had been
accumulated by the experience of past generations.

At the head of the profession stood the court-physician, the Rab-mugi or Rab-mag as he was
called in Babylonia. In Assyria there was more than one doctor attached to the royal person,
but letters have come down to us from which we learn that the royal physicians were at times
permitted to attend private individuals when they were sick. Thus we have a letter of thanks
to the Assyrian King from one of his subjects full of gratitude to the King for sending his
own doctor to the writer, who had accordingly been cured of a dangerous disease. “May Istar
of Erech,” he says, “and Nana (of Bit-Anu) grant long life to the king my lord, for he has
sent Basa, the royal physician, to save my life, and he has cured me; may the great gods of
heaven and earth be therefore gracious to the king my lord, and may they establish the throne
of the king my lord in heaven for ever, since I was dead and the king has restored me to life.”
Another letter contains a petition that one of the royal physicians should be allowed to visit
a lady who was ill. “To the king my lord,” we read, “thy servant, Saul-miti-yuballidh, sends
salutation to the king my lord: may Nebo and Merodach be gracious to the king my lord for ever
and ever. Bau-gamilat, the handmaid of the king, is constantly ill; she cannot eat a morsel
of food. Let the king send orders that some physician may go and see her.” In this case, however,
it is possible that the lady, who seems to have been suffering from consumption, belonged to
the harîm of the monarch, and it was consequently needful to obtain the royal permission for
a stranger to visit her, even though he came professionally.

We can hardly reckon among Babylonian professions that of the poet. It is true that a sort
of poet-laureate existed at the court, and that we hear of a piece of land being given by the
King to one of them for some verses which he had composed in honor of the sovereign. But poetry
was not a separate profession, and the poet must be included in the class of scribes, or among
those educated country gentlemen who possessed estates of their own. He was, however, fully
appreciated in Babylonia. The names of the chief poets of the country were never forgotten,
and the poems they had written passed through edition after edition down to the later days
of Babylonian history. Sin-liqi-unnini, the author of the “Epic of Gilgames,” Nis-Sin, the
author of the “Adventures of Etana,” and many others, never passed out of literary remembrance.
There was a large reading public, and the literary language of Babylonia changed but little
from century to century.

It was otherwise with the musicians. They formed a class to themselves, though whether as a
trade or as a profession it is difficult to say. We must, however, distinguish between the
composer and the performer. The latter was frequently a slave or captive, and occupied but
an humble place in society. He is frequently depicted in the Assyrian bas-reliefs, and in one
instance is represented as wearing a cap of great height and shaped like a fish. Musical instruments
were numerous and various. We find among them drums and tambourines, trumpets and horns, lyres
and guitars, harps and zithers, pipes and cymbals. Even the speaking-trumpet was employed.
In a sculpture which represents the transport of a colossal bull from the quarries of Balad
to the palace of Sennacherib, an overseer is made to stand on the body of the bull and issue
orders through a trumpet to the workmen.

Besides single musicians, there were bands of performers, and at times the music was accompanied
by dancing or by clapping the hands. The bands were under the conduct of leaders, who kept
time with a double rod. In one instance the Assyrian artist has represented three captives
playing on a lyre, an interesting illustration of the complaint of the Jewish exiles in Babylonia
that their conquerors required from them “a song.”

The artist fared no better than the musical performer. The painter of the figures and scenes
on the walls of the chamber, the sculptor of the bas-reliefs which adorned an Assyrian palace,
or of the statues which stood in the temples of Babylonia, the engraver of the gems and seals,
some of which show such high artistic talent, were all alike skilled artisans and nothing more.
We have already seen what wages they received, and what consequently must have been the social
admiration in which they were held. Behind the workman, however, stood the original artist,
who conceived and drew the first designs, and to whom the artistic inspiration was primarily
due. Of him we still know nothing. Probably he belonged in general to the class of priests
or scribes, and would have disdained to receive remuneration for his art. As yet the texts
have thrown no light upon him, and it may be that they never will do so. The Babylonians were
a practical and not an artistic people, and the skilled artisan gave them all that they demanded
in the matter of art.

CHAPTER VIII. THE GOVERNMENT AND THE ARMY

The conception of the state in Babylonia was intensely theocratic. The kings had been preceded
by high-priests, and up to the last they performed priestly functions, and represented the
religious as well as the civil power. At Babylon the real sovereign was Bel Merodach, the true
“lord” of the city, and it was only when the King had been adopted by the god as his son that
he possessed any right to rule. Before he had “taken the hands” of Bel, and thereby become
the adopted son of the deity, he had no legitimate title to the throne. He was, in fact, the
vicegerent and representative of Bel upon earth; it was Bel who gave him his authority and
watched over him as a father over a son.

The Babylonian sovereign was thus quite as much a pontiff as he was a king. The fact was acknowledged
in the titles he bore, as well as in the ceremony which legitimized his accession to the throne.
Two views prevailed, however, as to his relation to the god. According to one of these, sonship
conferred upon him actual divinity; he was not merely the representative of a god, but a god
himself. This was the view which prevailed in the earlier days of Semitic supremacy. Sargon
of Akkad and his son Naram-Sin are entitled “gods;” temples and priests were dedicated to them
during their lifetime, and festivals were observed in their honor. Their successors claimed
and received the same attributes of divinity. Under the third dynasty of Ur even the local
prince, Gudea, the high-priest of Tello, was similarly deified. It was not until Babylonia
had been conquered by the foreign Kassite dynasty from the mountains of Elam that a new conception
of the King was introduced. He ceased to be a god himself, and became, instead, the delegate
and representative of the god of whom he was the adopted son. His relation to the god was that
of a son during the lifetime of his father, who can act for his father, but cannot actually
take the father’s place so long as the latter is alive.

Some of the earlier Chaldean monarchs call themselves sons of the goddesses who were worshipped
in the cities over which they held sway. They thus claimed to be of divine descent, not by
adoption, but by actual birth. The divinity that was in them was inherited; it was not merely
communicated by a later and artificial process. The “divine right,” by grace of which they
ruled, was the right of divine birth.

At the outset, therefore, the Babylonian King was a pontiff because he was also a god. In him
the deities of heaven were incarnated on earth. He shared their essence and their secrets;
he knew how their favor could be gained or their enmity averted, and so mediated between god
and man. This deification of the King, however, cannot be traced beyond the period when Semitic
rule was firmly established in Chaldea. It is true that Sumerian princes, like Gudea of Lagas,
were also deified; but this was long after the rise of Semitic supremacy, and the age of Sargon
of Akkad, and when Sumerian culture was deeply interpenetrated by Semitic ideas. So far as
we know at present the apotheosis of the King was of Semitic origin.

It is paralleled by the apotheosis of the King in ancient Egypt. There, too, the Pharaoh was
regarded as an incarnation of divinity, to whom shrines were erected, priests ordained, and
sacrifices offered. In early times he was, moreover, declared to be the son of the goddess
of the city in which he dwelt; it was not till the rise of the fifth historical dynasty that
he became the “Son of the Sun-god” of Heliopolis, rather than Horus, the Sun-god, himself.
This curious parallelism is one of many facts which point to intercourse between Babylonia
and Egypt in the prehistoric age; whether the deification of the King originated first on the
banks of the Euphrates or of the Nile must be left to the future to decide.

Naram-Sin is addressed as “the god of Agadê,” or Akkad, the capital of his dynasty, and long
lists have been found of the offerings that were made, month by month, to the deified Dungi,
King of Ur, and his vassal, Gudea of Lagas. Here, for example, are Dr. Scheil’s translations
of some of them: “I. Half a measure of good beer and 5 gin of sesame oil on the new moon, the
15th day, for the god Dungi; half a measure of good beer and half a measure of herbs for Gudea
the High-priest, during the month Tammuz. II. Half a measure of the king’s good beer, half
a measure of herbs, on the new moon, the 15th day, for Gudea the High-priest. One measure of
good wort beer, 5 qas of ground flour, 3 qas of cones (?), for the planet Mercury: during the
month of the festival of the god Dungi. As the doctrine of the divine right of kings passed
away in England with the rise of the Hanoverian dynasty, so, too, in Babylonia the deified
King disappeared with the Kassite conquest. But he continued to be supreme pontiff to the adopted
son of the god of Babylon. Babylon had become the capital of the kingdom, and Merodach, its
patron-deity, was, accordingly, supreme over the other gods of Chaldea. He alone could confer
the royal powers that the god of every city which was the centre of a principality had once
been qualified to grant. By “taking his hands” the King became his adopted son, and so received
a legitimate right to the throne.

It was the throne not only of Babylonia, but of the Babylonian empire as well. It was never
forgotten that Babylonia had once been the mistress of Western Asia, and it was, accordingly,
the sceptre of Western Asia that was conferred by Bel Merodach upon his adopted sons. Like
the Holy Roman Empire in the Middle Ages, Babylonian sovereignty brought with it a legal, though
shadowy, right to rule over the civilized kingdoms of the world. It was this which made the
Assyrian conquerors of the second Assyrian empire so anxious to secure possession of Babylon
and there “take the hands of Bel.” Tiglath-pileser III., Shalmaneser IV., and Sargon were all
alike usurpers, who governed by right of the sword. It was only when they had made themselves
masters of Babylon and been recognized by Bel and his priesthood that their title to govern
became legitimate and unchallenged.

Cyrus and Cambyses continued the tradition of the native kings. They, too, claimed to be the
successors of those who had ruled over Western Asia, and Bel, of his own free choice, it was
alleged, had rejected the unworthy Nabonidos and put Cyrus in his place. Cyrus ruled, not by
right of conquest, but because he had been called to the crown by the god of Babylon. It was
not until the Zoroastrean Darius and Xerxes had taken Babylon by storm and destroyed the temple
of Bel that the old tradition was finally thrust aside. The new rulers of Persia had no belief
in the god of Babylon; his priesthood was hostile to them, and Babylon was deposed from the
position it had so long occupied as the capital of the world.

In Assyria, in contrast to Babylonia, the government rested on a military basis. It is true
that the kings of Assyria had once been the high-priests of the city of Assur, and that they
carried with them some part of their priestly functions when they were invested with royal
power. But it is no less true that they were never looked upon as incarnations of the deity
or even as his representative upon earth. The rise of the Assyrian kingdom seems to have been
due to a military revolt; at any rate, its history is that of a succession of rebellious generals,
some of whom succeeded in founding dynasties, while others failed to hand down their power
to their posterity. There was no religious ceremony at their coronation like that of “taking
the hands of Bel.” When Esar-haddon was made King he was simply acclaimed sovereign by the
army. It was the army and not the priesthood to whom he owed his title to reign.

The conception of the supreme god himself differed in Assyria and Babylonia. In Babylonia,
Bel-Merodach was “lord” of the city; in Assyria, Assur was the deified city itself. In the
one case, therefore, the King was appointed vicegerent of the god over the city which he governed
and preserved; in the other case the god represented the state, and, in so far as the King
was a servant of the god, he was a servant also of the state.

In both countries there was an aristocracy of birth based originally on the possession of land.
But in Babylonia it tended at an early period to be absorbed by the mercantile and priestly
classes, and in later days it is difficult to find traces even of its existence. The nobles
of the age of Nebuchadnezzar were either wealthy trading families or officers of the Crown.
The temples, and the priests who lived upon their revenues, had swallowed up a considerable
part of the landed and other property of the country, which had thus become what in modern
Turkey would be called wakf. In Assyria many of the great princes of the realm still belonged
to the old feudal aristocracy, but here again the tendency was to replace them by a bureaucracy
which owed its position and authority to the direct favor of the King. Under Tiglath-pileser
III. this tendency became part of the policy of the government; the older aristocracy disappeared,
and instead of it we find military officers and civil officials, all of whom were appointed
by the Crown.

While, accordingly, Babylonia became an industrial and priestly state, Assyria developed into
a great military and bureaucratic organization. It taught the world how to organize and administer
an empire. Tiglath-pileser III. inaugurated a course of policy which his successors did their
best to carry out. He aimed at reviving the ancient empire of Sargon of Akkad, of uniting the
civilized world of Western Asia under one head, but upon new principles and in a more permanent
way. The campaigns which his predecessors had carried on for the sake of booty and military
fame were now conducted with a set purpose and method. The raid was replaced by a carefully
planned scheme of conquest. The vanquished territories were organized into provinces under
governors appointed by the Assyrian King and responsible to him alone. By the side of the civil
governor was a military commander, who kept watch upon the other’s actions, while under them
was a large army of administrators. Assyrian colonies were planted in the newly acquired districts,
where they served as a garrison, and the native inhabitants were transported to other parts
of the Assyrian empire. In this way an attempt was made to break the old ties of patriotism
and local feeling, and to substitute for them fidelity to the Assyrian government and the god
Assur, in whose name its conquests were made.

The taxes of the empire were carefully regulated. A cadastral survey was an institution which
had long been in existence; it had been borrowed from Babylonia, where, as we have seen, it
was already known at a very early epoch. The amount to be paid into the treasury by each town
and province was fixed, and the governor was called upon to transmit it each year to Nineveh.
Thus in the time of Sennacherib the annual tribute of Carchemish was 100 talents, that of Arpad
30, and that of Megiddo 15, while, at home, Nineveh was assessed at 30 talents, and the district
of Assur at 20, which were expended on the maintenance of the fleet, the whole amount of revenue
raised from Assyria being 274 talents. Besides this direct taxation, there was also indirect
taxation, as well as municipal rates. Thus a tax was laid upon the brick-fields, which in Babylonia
were economically of considerable importance, and there was an octroi duty upon all goods,
cattle, and country produce which entered a town. Similar tolls were exacted from the ships
which moored at the quays, as well as from those who made use of the pontoon-bridges which
spanned the Euphrates or passed under them in boats.

Long lists of officials have been preserved. Certain of the governors or satraps were allowed
to share with the King the privilege of giving a name to the year. It was an ingenious system
of reckoning time which had been in use in Assyria from an early period and was introduced
into Cappadocia by Assyrian colonists. From Asia Minor it probably spread to Greece; at all
events, the eponymous archons at Athens, after whom the several years were named, corresponded
exactly with the Assyrian limmi or eponyms. Each year in succession received its name from
the eponym or officer who held office during the course of it, and as lists of these officers
were carefully handed down it was easy to determine the date of an event which had taken place
in the year of office of a given eponym. The system was of Assyrian invention and never prevailed
in Babylonia. There time was dated by the chief occurrences of a king’s reign, and at the end
of the reign a list of them was drawn up beginning with his accession to the throne and ending
with his death and the name of his successor. These lists went back to an early period of Babylonian
history and provided the future historian with an accurate chronology.

Immediately attached to the person of the Assyrian monarch was the Rab-saki, “the chief of
the princes,” or vizier. He is called the Rab-shakeh in the Old Testament, by the side of whom
stood the Rab-saris, the Assyrian Rab-sa-risi, or “chief of the heads” of departments. They
were both civil officers. The army was under the command of the Tartannu, or “Commander-in-Chief,”
the Biblical Tartan, who, in the absence of the King, led the troops to battle and conducted
a campaign. When Shalmaneser II., for example, became too old to take the field himself, his
armies were led by the Tartan Daian-Assur, and under the second Assyrian empire the Tartan
appears frequently, sometimes in command of a portion of the forces, while the King is employing
the rest elsewhere, sometimes in place of the King, who prefers to remain at home. In earlier
days there had been two Tartans, one of whom stood on the right hand side of the King and the
other on his left. In order of precedence both of them were regarded as of higher rank than
the Rab-shakeh.

The army was divided into companies of a thousand, a hundred, fifty, and ten, and we hear of
captains of fifty and captains of ten. Under Tiglath-pileser III. and his successors it became
an irresistible engine of attack. No pains were spared to make it as effective as possible;
its discipline was raised to the highest pitch of perfection, and its arms and accoutrements
constantly underwent improvements. As long as a supply of men lasted, no enemy could stand
against it, and the great military empire of Nineveh was safe.

It contained cavalry as well as foot-soldiers. The cavalry had grown out of a corps of chariot-drivers,
which was retained, though shrunken in size and importance, long after the more serviceable
horsemen had taken its place. The chariot held a driver and a warrior. When the latter was
the King he was accompanied by one or two armed attendants. They all rode standing and carried
bows and spears. The chariot itself ran upon two wheels, a pair of horses being harnessed to
its pole. Another horse was often attached to it in case of accidents.

The chariots were of little good when the fighting had to be done in a mountainous country.
In the level parts of Western Asia, where good roads had existed for untold centuries, they
were a powerful arm of offence, but the Assyrians were constantly called upon to attack the
tribes of the Kurdish and Armenian mountains who harassed their positions, and in such trackless
districts the chariots were an incumbrance and not a help. Trees had to be cut down and rocks
removed in order to make roads along which they might pass. The Assyrian engineers indeed were
skilled in the construction of roads of the kind, and the inscriptions not infrequently boast
of their success in carrying them through the most inaccessible regions, but the necessity
for making them suitable for the passage of chariots was a serious drawback, and we hear at
times how the wheels of the cars had to be taken off and the chariots conveyed on the backs
of mules or horses. It was not wonderful, therefore, that the Assyrian kings, who were practical
military men, soon saw the advantage of imitating the custom of the northern and eastern mountaineers,
who used the horse for riding purposes rather than for drawing a chariot. The chariot continued
to be employed in the Assyrian army, but rather as a luxury than as an effective instrument of war.

At first the cavalry were little more than mounted horsemen. Their only weapons were the bow
and arrow, and they rode without saddles and with bare legs. At a later period part of the
cavalry was armed with spears, saddles were introduced, and the groom who had run by the side
of the horse disappeared. At the same time, under Tiglath-pileser III., the rider’s legs were
protected by leathern drawers over which high boots were drawn, laced in front. This was an
importation from the north, and it is possible that many of the horsemen were brought from
the same quarter. Sennacherib still further improved the dress by adding to it a closely fitting
coat of mail.

The infantry outnumbered the cavalry by about ten to one, and were divided into heavy-armed
and light-armed. Their usual dress, at all events, up to the foundation of the second Assyrian
empire, consisted of a peaked helmet and a tunic which descended half-way down the thighs,
and was fastened round the waist by a girdle. From the reign of Sargon onward they were divided
into two bodies, one of archers, the other of spearmen, the archers being partly light-armed
and partly heavy-armed. The heavy-armed were again divided into two classes, one of them wearing
sandals and a coat-of-mail over the tunic, while the other was dressed in a long, fringed robe
reaching to the feet, over which a cuirass was worn. They also carried a short sword, and had
sandals of the same shape as those used by the other class. Each had an attendant waiting upon
him with a long, rectangular shield of wicker-work, covered with leather. The light-armed archers
were encumbered with but little clothing, consisting only of a kilt and a fillet round the
head. The spearmen, on the contrary, were protected by a crested helmet and circular shield,
though their legs and face were usually bare.

Changes were introduced by Sennacherib, who abolished the inconveniently long robe of the second
class of heavy-armed archers, and gave them leather greaves and boots. The first class, on
the other hand, are now generally represented without sandals, and with an embroidered turban
with lappets on the head. Sennacherib also established a corps of slingers, who were clad in
helmet and breastplate, leather drawers, and short boots, as well as a company of pioneers,
armed with double-headed axes, and clothed with conical helmets, greaves, and boots. These
pioneers were especially needed for engineering the way through the pathless defiles and rugged
ground over which the extension of the empire more and more required the Assyrian army to make
its way.

The heads of the spears and arrows were of metal, usually of bronze, more rarely of iron. The
helmets also were of bronze or iron, a leather cap being worn underneath them, and the coats-of-mail
were formed of bronze scales sewn to a leather shirt. Many of the shields, moreover, were of
metal, though wicker-work covered with leather seems to have been preferred. Battering-rams
and other engines for attacking a city were carried on the march.

Baggage wagons were also carried, as well as standards and tents. The tents of the officers
were divided into two partitions, one of which was used as a dining-room, while the royal tent
was accompanied by a kitchen. Tables, chairs, couches, and various utensils formed part of
its furniture. One of these chairs was a sort of palanquin in the shape of an arm-chair with
a footstool, which was borne on the shoulders of attendants.

The Assyrian army was originally recruited from the native peasantry, who returned to their
fields at the end of a campaign with the spoil that had been taken from the enemy. Under the
second Assyrian empire, however, it became a standing army, a part of which was composed of
mercenaries, while another part consisted of troops drafted from the conquered populations.
Certain of the soldiers were selected to serve as the body-guard of the King; they had a commander
of their own and doubtless possessed special privileges. The army was recruited by conscription,
the obligation to serve in it being part of the burdens which had to be borne by the peasantry.
They could be relieved of it by the special favor of the government just as they could be relieved
of the necessity of paying taxes.

The Babylonian army of Nebuchadnezzar and his successors was modelled on that of the Assyrians.
We can gather from the receipts for the provisions and accoutrements furnished to it how the
army of Tiglath-pileser or Sennacherib must have been fed and paid. Thus in the first year
of Nabonidos, 75 qas of flour and 63 qas (nearly 100 quarts) of beer were provided for the
troops in the camp near Sippara, and in the second year of the same King 54 qas of beer were
sent on the 29th of Nisan for “the soldiers who had marched from Babylon.” Similarly in the
tenth year of the same reign we have a receipt for the despatch of 116 qas of food on the 14th
of Iyyar for “the troops which had marched [to Sippara] from Babylon,” as well as for 18 qas
of “provisions” provided each day for the same purpose from the 15th to the 18th of the same
month. In the first year of Nabonidos 3 gur of sesame had been ordered for the archers during
the first two months of the year, and as in his thirteenth year 5 gur of wheat were provided
for fifteen soldiers, we may calculate that rather more than two and one-half bushels were
allotted to each man. It may be added that at the beginning of Nebuchadnezzar’s reign we find
a contractor guaranteeing “the excellence of the beer” that had been furnished for the “army
that had entered Babylon,” though it is possible that here artisans rather than soldiers are meant.

A register of the soldiers was kept, but it would seem that those who were in charge of it
sometimes forgot to strike off the names of those who were dead or discharged, and pocketed
their pay. At any rate, the following official document has come down to us:—“(The names) of
the deserters and dead soldiers which have been overlooked in the paymaster’s account, the
8th day of Nisan, the eighth year of Cyrus, king of Babylon and of the world: Samas-akhi-iddin,
son of Samas-ana-bitisu, deserted; Muse-zib-Samas, son of the Usian, ditto; Itti-Samas-eneya
junior, of the family of Samas-kin-abli, ditto; Itti-Samas-baladhu, son of Samas-erba ditto;
Taddannu, son of Rimut, ditto; Samas-yuballidh, his brother, ditto; Kalbâ, son of Samas-kin-abli,
son of the painter(?), ditto; in all seven deserters. Libludh, son of Samas-edher, dead; Nebo-tuktê-tirri,
ditto; Samas-mupakhkhiranni, ditto; Samas-akhi-erba, son of Samas-ana-bitisu, ditto; in all
four dead. Altogether eleven soldiers who have deserted or are dead.”

If Babylonia copied Assyria in military arrangements, the converse was the case as regards
a fleet. “The cry of the Chaldeans,” according to the Old Testament, was “in their ships,”
and in the earliest age of Babylonian history, Eridu, which then stood on the sea-coast, was
already a sea-port. But Assyria was too far distant from the sea for its inhabitants to become
sailors, and the rapid current of the Tigris made even river navigation difficult. In fact,
the rafts on which the heavy monuments were transported, and which could float only down stream,
or the small, round boats, resembling the kufas that are still in use, were almost the only
means employed for crossing the water. When the Assyrian army had to pass a river, either pontoons
were thrown across it, or the soldiers swam across the streams with the help of inflated skins.
The kufa was made of rushes daubed with bitumen, and sometimes covered with a skin.

So little accustomed were the Assyrians to navigation that, when Sennacherib determined to
pursue the followers of Merodach-baladan across the Persian Gulf to the coast of Elam, he was
obliged to have recourse to the Phœnician boat-builders and sailors. Two fleets were built
for him by Phœnician and Syrian workmen, one at Tel-Barsip, near Carchemish, on the Euphrates,
the other at Nineveh on the Tigris; these he manned with Syrian, Sidonian, and Ionian sailors,
and after pouring out a libation to Ea, the god of the sea, set sail from the mouth of the
Euphrates. It was probably for the support of this fleet that the 20 talents (£10,800) annually
levied on the district of Assur were intended. The Phœnician ships employed by the Assyrians
were biremes, with two tiers of oars.

Of the Babylonian fleet we know but little. It does not seem to have taken part in the defence
of the country at the time of the invasion of Cyrus. But the sailors who manned it were furnished
with food, like the soldiers of the army, from the royal storehouse or granary. Thus in the
sixteenth year of Nabonidos we have a memorandum to the effect that 210 qas of dates were sent
from the storehouse in the month Tammuz “for the maintenance of the sailors.” The King also
kept a state-barge on the Euphrates, like the dahabias of Egypt. In the twenty-fourth year
of Darius, for instance, a new barge was made for the monarch, two contractors undertaking
to work upon it from the beginning of Iyyar, or April, to the end of Tisri, or September, and
to use in its construction a particular kind of wood.

While we hear but little about the fleet, cargo and ferry-boats are frequently mentioned in
letters and contracts. Reference has already been made to the shekel and a quarter paid by
the agent of Belshazzar for the hire of a boat which conveyed three oxen and twenty-four sheep
to the temple of the Sun-god at Sippara, in order that they might be sacrificed at the festival
of the new year. Sixty qas of dates were at the same time given to the boatmen. In the reign
of Nebuchadnezzar, 3 shekels were paid for the hire of a grain-boat, and in the thirty-sixth
year of the same King 4½ shekels were given for the hire of another boat for the transport of wool.

Some documents translated by Mr. Pinches throw light on the building and cost of the ships.
One of them is as follows: “A ship of six by the cubit beam, twenty by the cubit the seat of
its waters, which Nebo-baladan, the son of Labasi, the son of Nur-Papsukal, has sold to Sirikki,
the son of Iddinâ, the son of Egibi, for four manehs, ten shekels of silver, in one-shekel
pieces, which are not standard, and are in the shape of a bird’s tail (?). Nebo-baladan takes
the responsibility for the management (?) of the ship. Nebo-baladan has received the money,
four manehs ten shekels of white (silver), the price of his ship, from the hands of Sirikki.”
The contract, which was signed by six witnesses, one of whom was “the King’s captain,” was
dated at Babylon in the twenty-sixth year of Darius. Another contract relates to one of the
boats of the pontoon-bridge which ran across the Euphrates and connected the two parts of Babylon
together: “[Two] manehs ten shekels of white (silver), coined in one-shekel pieces, not standard,
from Musezib, the son of Pisaram, to Sisku, the son of Iddinâ, the son of Egibi. Musezibtum
and Narum, his female slaves—the wrist of Musezibtum is tattooed with the name of Iddinâ, the
father of Sisku, and the wrist of Narum is tattooed with the name of Sisku—are the security
of Musezib. There is no hire paid for the slaves or interest on the money. Another possessor
shall not have power over them until Musezib receives the money, two manehs ten shekels of
white silver, in one-shekel pieces. Sisku, the son of Iddinâ, takes the responsibility for
the non-escape of Musezibtum and Narum. The day when Musezibtum and Narum go elsewhere Sisku
shall pay Musezib half a measure of grain a day by way of hire. The money, which is for a ship
for the bridge, has been given to Sisku.” This contract is also dated in the twenty-sixth year
of Darius.

A letter written in the time of Khammurabi, or Amraphel, throws some light on the profits that
were made by conveying passengers. There were ships which conveyed foreign merchants to Babylon
if they were furnished with passports allowing them to travel and trade in the dominions of
the Babylonian King. They took their goods and commodities along with them; on one occasion,
we are told, the boat in which some of them travelled had been used for the conveyance of 10
talents of lead. It must, therefore, have been of considerable size and draught.

That the army and navy should have been recruited from abroad was in accordance with that spirit
of liberality toward the foreigner which had distinguished the Babylonians from an early period.
It was partly due to the mixed character of the race, partly to the early foundation of an
empire which embraced the greater portion of Western Asia, partly, and more especially, to
the commercial instincts of the people. We find among them none of that jealous exclusiveness
which characterized most of the nations of antiquity. They were ready to receive into their
midst both the foreigner and his gods. Among Assyrian and Babylonian officials we meet with
many who bear foreign names, and among the gods whose statues found a place in the national
temples of Assyria were Khaldis of Armenia, and the divinities of the Bedâwin. The policy of
deporting a conquered nation was dictated by the same readiness to admit the stranger to the
rights and privileges of a home-born native. The restrictions placed upon Babylonian and Assyrian
citizenship seem to have been but slight.

When Abraham was born at Ur of the Chaldees, Babylonia was governed by a dynasty of South Arabian
origin whose names had to be translated into the Babylonian language. Throughout the country
there were colonies of “Amorites,” from Syria and Canaan, doubtless established there for the
purposes of trade, who enjoyed the same rights as the native Babylonians. They could hold and
bequeath land and other property, could buy and sell freely, could act as witnesses in a case
where natives alone were concerned, and could claim the full protection of Babylonian law.

One of these colonies, known as “the district of the Amorites,” was just outside the walls
of Sippara. In the reign of Ammi-zadok, the fourth successor of Khammurabi, a dispute arose
about the title to some land included within it, and the matter was tried before the four royal
judges. The following record of the judgment was drawn up by the clerk of the court: “Twenty
acres by thirteen of land in the district of the Amorites which was purchased by Ibni-Hadad,
the merchant. Arad-Sin, the son of Edirum, has pleaded as follows before the judges: The building
land, along with the house of my father, he did not buy; Ibku-Anunit and Dhab-Istar, the sons
of Samas-nazir, sold (it) for money to Ibni-Hadad, the merchant. Iddatum and Mazitum, the sons
of Ibni-Hadad the merchant, appeared before the judges; they lifted up (their hands) and swore
that it had been put up for sale; it had been bought by Edirum and Sin-nadni-sû who handed
it over to Samas-nazir and Ibku-Anunit, selling it to them for money. The estate, consisting
of twenty-two acres of land enclosed by thirty other acres, as well as eleven trees [and] a
house, in the district of the Amorites, bounded at the upper end by the estate of ——, and at
the lower end by the river Bukai (?), is contracted in width, and is of the aforesaid nature.
Judgment has been given for Arad-Sin, the son of Edirum, as follows: At the entrance to Sippara
the property is situated (?), and after being put up for sale was bought by Samas-nazir and
Ibku-Anunit, to whom it was handed over; power of redemption is allowed (?) to Arad-Sin; the
estate is there, let him take it. Before Uruki-mansum the judge, Sin-ismeani the judge, Ibku-Anunit
the judge, and Ibku-ilisu the judge. The 6th day of the month Tammuz, the year when Ammi-zadok
the king constructed the very great aqueduct (?) for the mountain and its fountain (?) for
the house of Life.”

If we may argue from the names, Arad-Sin, who brought the action, was of Babylonian descent;
and in this case native Babylonians as well as foreigners could hold land in the district in
which the Amorites had settled. At any rate, in the eyes of the law, the native and the foreign
settler must have been upon an equal footing; they were tried before the same judges, and the
law which applied to the one applied equally to the other. It is clear, moreover, that the
foreigner had as much right as the native to buy, sell, or bequeath the soil of Babylonia.

Whether or not this right was restricted to particular districts, we do not know. In Syria,
in later days, “streets,” or rows of shops in a city, could be assigned to the members of another
nationality by special treaty, as we learn from I Kings xx. 34, and at the end of the Egyptian
eighteenth dynasty we hear of a quarter at Memphis being given to a colony of Hittite merchants,
but such special assignments of land may not have been the custom in ancient Chaldea. The Amorites
of Canaan may have been allowed to settle wherever they liked, and the origin of the title
“district of the Amorites” may have simply been due to the tendency of foreign settlers to
establish themselves in the same locality. The fact that Arad-Sin seems to have been a Babylonian,
and that his action was brought before Babylonian judges, is in favor of the view that such
was the case.

Moreover, as Mr. Pinches has pointed out, Amorites could rise to the highest offices of state.
Not only could they serve as witnesses to a deed, to which all the other parties were native
Babylonians, they could also hold civil and military appointments. On the one hand we find
the son of Abi-ramu, or Abram, who is described as “the father of the Amorite,” acting as a
witness to a contract dated in the reign of the grandfather of Khammurabi, or Amraphel; on
the other hand, “an Amorite” has the same title of “servant” of the King as the royal judge
Ibku-Anunit, and among the Assyrians of the second empire, who were slavish imitators of Babylonian
custom and law, we meet with more than one example of a foreigner in the service of the Assyrian
government. Thus, in the reign of Sargon, thirteen years after the fall of Samaria, the Israelites,
Pekah and Nadabiah, who appear as witnesses to the sale of some slaves, are described, the
one as “the governor of the city,” the other as a departmental secretary. The founder, again,
of one of the leading commercial families at Babylon under Nebuchadnezzar and his successors
is entitled “the Egyptian,” and the clerk who draws up a contract in the first year of Cambyses
is the grandson of a Jew, Bel-Yahu, “Bel is Yahveh,” while his father’s name, Ae-nahid, “Ae
is exalted,” implies that the Israelitish Yahveh had been identified with the Babylonian Ae.
Hebrew and Canaanite names appear in legal and commercial documents of the age of Khammurabi
and earlier by the side of names of purely native stamp; Jacob-el and Joseph-el, for instance,
Abdiel and Ishmael, come before us with all the rights and privileges of Babylonian citizens.
The name of Ishmael, indeed, is already met with on a marble slab from Sippara, which is as
early as about 4,000 B.C. In the time of Sargon of Akkad the Babylonian “governor” of Syria
and Canaan bears the Canaanitish name of Uru-Malik, or Urimelech, and under the later Assyrian
empire, the “tartan” of Comagene, with the Hittite name of Mar-lara, was an eponym, who gave
his name to the year.

Mr. Pinches is probably right in seeing the name “Israel” itself in that of a high-priest who
lived in the district of the Amorites outside Sippara in the reign of Ammi-zadok. His name
is written Sar-ilu, and it was by his order that nine acres of ground “in the district of the
Amorites” were leased for a year from two nuns, who were devotees of the Sun-god, and their
nieces. Six measures of grain on every ten acres were to be paid to the Sun-god at the gate
of Malgia, the women themselves receiving a shekel of silver as rent, and the field was to
be handed back to them at harvest-time, the end of the agricultural year. That the women in
the Amorite settlements enjoyed the same freedom and powers as the women of Babylonia is shown
by two documents, one dated in the reign of the second King of the dynasty to which Khammurabi
belonged, the other in the reign of Khammurabi’s great-grandfather. In the first, Kuryatum,
the daughter of an Amorite, receives a field of more than four acres of which she had been
wrongfully deprived; in the second, the same Kuryatum and her brother Sumu-rah are sued by
the three children of an Amorite, one of whom is a woman, for the recovery of a field, house,
slaves, and date-palms. The case was brought before “the judges of Bit-Samas,” “the Temple
of the (Babylonian) Sun-god,” who rejected the claim.

At a very early period of Babylonian history the Syrian god Hadad, or Rimmon, had been, as
it were, domesticated in Babylonia, where he was known as Amurru, “the Amorite.” He had come
with the Amorite merchants and settlers, and was naturally their patron-deity. His wife, Asratu,
or Asherah, was called, by the Sumerians, Nin-Marki, “the mistress of the Amorite land,” and
was identified with their own Gubarra. Nin-Marki, or Asherah, presided over the Syrian settlements,
the part of the city where the foreigners resided being under her protection like the gate
which led to “the district of the Amorites” beyond the walls. The following lawsuit which came
before the courts in the reign of Khammurabi shows that there were special judges for cases
in which Amorites were concerned and that they sat at “the gate of Nin-Marki.” “Concerning
the garden of Sin-magir which Nahid-Amurri bought for money. Ilu-bani claimed it for the royal
stables, and accordingly they went to the judges, and the judges sent them to the gate of Nin-Marki
and the judges of the gate of Nin-Marki. In the gate of Nin-Marki Ilu-bani pleaded as follows:
I am the son of Sin-magir; he adopted me as his son, and the seal of the document has never
been broken. He further pleaded that ever since the reign of the deified Rim-Sin (Arioch) the
garden and house had been adjudged to Ilu-bani. Then came Sin-mubalidh and claimed the garden
of Ilu-bani, and they went to the judges and the judges pronounced that ‘to us and the elders
they have been sent and in the gate of the gods Merodach, Sussa, Nannar, Khusa, and Nin-Marki,
the daughter of Merodach, in the judgment-hall, the disputants (?) have stood, and the elders
before whom Nahid-Amurri first appeared in the gate of Nin-Marki have heard the declaration
of Ilu-bani.’ Accordingly they adjudged the garden and house to Ilu-bani, forbidding Sin-mubalidh
to return and claim it. Oaths have been taken in the name of the Moon-god, the Sun-god, Merodach,
and Khammurabi, the king. Before Sin-imguranni the president, Edilka-Sin, Amil-izzitim, Ubarrum,
Zanbil-arad-Sin, Ak-hiya, Kabdu-gumi, Samas-bani, the son of Abia-rak-has, Zanik-pisu, Izkur-Ea
the steward, and Bauila. The seals of the parties are attached. The fourth day of Tammuz, the
year when Khammurabi the king offered up prayer to Tasmit.”

While a portion of the land was thus owned by foreigners, there was a considerable part of
it which belonged to the temples. Another part consisted of royal domains, the revenue of which
went to the privy purse of the King. The King could make grants of this to his favorites, or
as a reward for services to the state. The Babylonian King Nebo-baladan, for example, gave
one of his officials a field large enough, it was calculated, to be sown with 3 gur of seed,
and Assur-bani-pal of Assyria made his vizier, Nebo-sar-uzur, the gift of a considerable estate
on account of his loyalty from the time that the King was a boy. All the vizier’s lands, including
the serfs upon them, were declared free from taxation and every kind of burden, the men upon
them were not to be impressed as soldiers, nor the cattle and flocks to be carried away. It
was also ordered that Nebo-sar-uzur, on his decease, should be buried where he chose, and not
in the common cemetery outside the walls of the city. Like the monarch, he might have his tomb
in the royal palace or in his own house, and imprecations were called down on the head of anyone
who wished to disturb his final resting-place. The deed of gift and privilege was sealed, we
are told, with the King’s own “signet-ring.”

A grant of immunity from taxation and other burdens could be made to the inhabitants of a whole
district. A deed exists, signed by a large number of witnesses, in which Nebuchadnezzar I.
of Babylon (about 1200 B.C.) makes a grant of the kind to the district of Bit-Karziyabku in
the mountains of Namri to the east of Babylonia. We read in it that, throughout the whole district,
neither the royal messengers nor the governor of Namri shall have any jurisdiction, no horses,
foals, mares, asses, oxen, or sheep shall be carried off by the tax-gatherers, no stallions
shall be sent to the royal stables, and no taxes of grain and fruit shall be paid to the Babylonian
treasury. Nor shall any of the inhabitants be impressed for military service. It speaks volumes
for the commercial spirit of the Babylonians that a royal decree of this character should have
been thrown into legal form, and that the names of witnesses should have been attached to it,
just as if it had been a contract between two private persons. The contrast is striking with
the decree issued by the Assyrian King, Assur-bani-pal, to his faithful servant Nebo-sar-uzur.
All that was needed where the King of Assyria was concerned was his signet-seal and royal command.
But Assur-bani-pal was an autocrat at the head of a military state. The Babylonian sovereign
governed a commercial community and owed his authority to the priests of Bel.

CHAPTER IX. THE LAW

Babylonian law was of early growth. Among the oldest records of the country are legal cases,
abstracts of which have been transcribed for future use. The first law-book, in fact, was ascribed
to Ea, the god of culture, and it was told how he had enacted that the King should deal uprightly
and administer justice to his people. “If he regard not justice,” it was said, “Ea, the god
of destiny, shall change his fortune and replace him by another.… But if he have regard to
the injunction of Ea, the great gods shall establish him in wisdom and the knowledge of righteousness.”

The Ea of the cuneiform text seems to be the Oannes of the Chaldean historian Berossos, who
was said to have risen out of the waters of the Persian Gulf, bringing with him the elements
of civilization and the code of laws which were henceforth to prevail in Babylonia. The code
of Oannes has perished, but fragments of another and more historical one have been preserved
to us in a reading-book which was intended to teach the Semitic pupil the ancient language
of the Sumerians. The original Sumerian text is given with its Semitic equivalent, as well
as a list of technical legal terms. “If a son,” it is said, “denies his father, his hair shall
be cut, he shall be put into chains and sold for silver. If he denies his mother, his hair
also shall be cut, city and land shall collect together and put him in prison.… If the wife
hates her husband and denies him, they shall throw her into the river. If the husband divorces
his wife, he must pay her fifty shekels of silver. If a man hires a servant, and kills, wounds,
beats, or ill-uses him or makes him ill, he must with his own hand measure out for him each
day half a measure of grain.”

We have already seen that the last regulation was in force up to the latest period of Babylonian
history. It betrays a humane spirit in the early legislation and shows that the slave was regarded
as something more than a mere chattel. It provided against his being over-worked; as soon as
the slave was rendered unfit for labor by his hirer’s fault, the latter was fined, and the
fine was exacted as long as the slave continued ill or maimed. The law which pronounced sentence
of death by drowning upon the unfaithful wife was observed as late as the age of Khammurabi.
Such at least is the evidence of some curious documents, from which we learn that a certain
Arad-Samas married first a daughter of Uttatu and subsequently a half-sister of his wife. In
the contract of marriage it is stipulated that unfaithfulness to the husband on the part of
both the wives would be punished with drowning, on the part of the second only with slavery.
On the other hand he could divorce them on payment of a maneh of silver—that is to say, of
30 shekels apiece. Under Nebuchadnezzar the old power of putting the wife to death in case
of adultery was still possessed by the husband, where the wife was of lower rank than himself
and little better than a concubine. It was a survival of the patria potestas which had once
belonged to him. The wife who came from a wealthy and respectable family, however, stood on
a footing of equality with her husband, and he could not venture to put in force against her
the provisions of the ancient Sumerian law.

Babylonian law resembled that of England in being founded upon precedents. The code which was
supposed to have been revealed by Ea, or Oannes, belonged to the infancy of Chaldean society
and contained only a rudimentary system of legislation. The actual law of the country was a
complicated structure which had been slowly built up by the labors of generations. An abstract
was made of every important case that came before the judges and of the decision given in regard
to it; these abstracts were carefully preserved, and formed the basis of future judgments.

The judges before whom the cases were brought were appointed by the King, and acted in his
place. They sat under a president, and were usually four or five in number. They had to sign
their names at the end of their judgments, after which the date of the document was added.
It is probable that they went on circuit like Samuel in Israel and the “royal judges” of Persia.

Where foreigners were involved the case was first tried before special judges, who probably
belonged to the same nationality as the parties to the suit; if one of the latter, however,
was a Babylonian it was afterward brought again before a native tribunal. Sometimes in such
cases the primitive custom was retained of allowing “the elders” of the city to sit along with
the judges and pronounce upon the question in dispute. They thus represented to a certain extent
an English jury. Whether they appeared in cases in which Babylonians alone were engaged is
doubtful. We hear of them only where one at least of the litigants is an Amorite from Canaan,
and it is therefore possible that their appearance was a concession to Syrian custom. In Babylonia
they had long been superseded by the judges, the royal power having been greater there from
the outset than in the more democratic West, and consequently there would have been but little
need for their services. If, however, the foreign settlers had been accustomed at home to have
their disputes determined by a council of elders, we can understand why they were still allowed
in Babylonia to plead before a similar tribunal, though it could do little more than second
the decisions of the judges.

Plaintiff and defendant pleaded their own causes, which were drawn up in legal form by the
clerks of the court. Witnesses were called and examined and oaths were taken in the names of
the gods and of the King.

The King, it must be remembered, was in earlier times himself a god. In later days the oaths
were usually dropped, and the evidence alone considered sufficient. Perhaps experience had
taught the bench that perjury was not a preventable crime.

Each case was tried by a select number of judges, who were especially appointed to inquire
into it, as we may gather from a document dated at Babylon the 6th day of Nisan in the seventeenth
year of Nebuchadnezzar. “[These are] the judges,” it runs, “before whom Sapik-zeri, the son
of Zirutu, [and] Baladhu, the son of Nasikatum, the servant of the secretary of the Marshlands,
have appeared in their suit regarding a house. The house and deed had been duly sealed by Zirutu,
the father of Sapik-zeri, and given to Baladhu. Baladhu, however, had come to terms with Sapik-zeri
and handed the house over to him and had taken the deed (from the record-office) and had given
it to Sapik-zeri. Nebo-edher-napisti, the prefect of the Marshlands; Nebo-suzzizanni, the sub-prefect
of the Marshlands; Merodach-erba, the mayor of Erech; Imbi-ilu, the priest of Ur, Bel-yuballidh,
the son of Merodach-sum-ibni, the prefect of the western bank; Abtâ, the son of Suzubu, the
son of Babutu; Musezib-Bel, the son of Nadin-akhi, the son of the adopted one; Baniya, the
son of Abtâ, the priest of the temple of Sadu-rabu; and Sa-mas-ibni, the priest of Sadu-rabu.”
The list of judges shows that the civil governors could act as judges and that the priests
were also eligible for the post. Neither the one class nor the other, however, is usually named,
and we must conclude, therefore, that, though the governor of a province or the mayor of a
town had a right to sit on the judicial bench, he did not often avail himself of it.

The charge was drawn up in the technical form and attested by witnesses before it was presented
to the court. We have an example of this dated at Sippara, the 28th day of Adar in the eighth
year of Cyrus as King of Babylon: “Nebo-akhi-bullidh, the son of Su—, the governor of Sakhrin,
on the 28th of Adar, the eighth year of Cyrus, king of Babylon and of the world, has brought
the following charge against Bel-yuballidh, the priest of Sippara: I have taken Nanâ-iddin,
son of Bau-eres, into my house because I am your father’s brother and the governor of the city.
Why, then, have you lifted up your hand against me? Rimmon-sar-uzur, the son of Nebo-yusezib;
Nargiya and Erba, his brothers; Kutkah-ilu, the son of Bau-eres; Bel-yuballidh, the son of
Barachiel; Bel-akhi-uzur, the son of Rimmon-yusallim; and Iqisa-abbu, the son of Samas-sar-uzur,
have committed a crime by breaking through my door, entering into my house, and leaving it
again after carrying away a maneh of silver.” Then come the names of five witnesses and the clerk.

A suit might be compromised by the litigants before it came into court. In the reign of Nebuchadnezzar
a certain Imliya brought witnesses to the door of the house of an official called Bel-iddin,
and accused Arrali, the superintendent of the works, of having stolen an overcoat and a loin-cloth
belonging to himself. But it was agreed that there would be no need on the part of the plaintiff
to summon witnesses; the stolen goods were returned without recourse to the law.

The care taken not to convict without sufficient evidence, and the thoroughness with which
each case was investigated, is one of the most striking features in the records of the Babylonian
lawsuits which have come down to us. Mention has already been made of the case of the runaway
slave Barachiel, who pretended to be a free citizen and the adopted son of a Babylonian gentleman.
Every effort seems to have been made to get at the truth, and some of the higher officials
were associated with the judges before whom the matter was brought. Eventually cross-examination
compelled Barachiel to confess the actual facts. It is noticeable that no torture was used
to compel confession, even though the defendant was not a free citizen. No allusion, in fact,
is ever made to torture, whether by the bastinado or otherwise; the evidence of witnesses and
the results of cross-examination are alone depended upon for arriving at the truth. In this
respect the legal procedure of Babylonia offers an honorable contrast to that of ancient Greece
or Rome, or even of Europe down to the middle of the last century.

Two cases which were pleaded before the courts in the reign of Nabonidos illustrate the carefulness
with which the evidence was examined. One of them was a case of false witness. And Ziriya,
Nebo-suma-lisir, and Edillu gave further testimony before the judges that Beli-litu, their
mother, had received the silver.” The judges deliberated and condemned Beli-litu to a fine
of 55 shekels, the highest fine that could be inflicted on her, and then gave it to Nebo-akhi-iddin.
It is possible that the prejudice which has always existed against the money-lender may have
encouraged Beli-litu to commit her act of dishonesty and perjury. That the judges should have
handed over the fine to the defendant, instead of paying it to the court or putting it into
their own pockets, is somewhat remarkable in the history of law.

The second case is that of some Syrians who had settled in Babylonia and there been naturalized.
The official abstract of it is as follows: “Bunanitum, the daughter of the Kharisian, brought
the following complaint before the judges of Nabonidos, king of Babylon: Ben-Hadad-nathan,
the son of Nikbaduh, married me and received three and one-half manehs of silver as my dowry,
and I bore him a daughter. I and Ben-Hadad-nathan, my husband, traded with the money of my
dowry, and we bought together a house standing on eight roods of ground, in the district on
the west side of the Euphrates in the suburb of Borsippa, for nine and one-third manehs of
silver, as well as an additional two and one-half manehs, which we received on loan without
interest from Iddin-Merodach, the son of Iqisa-ablu, the son of Nur-Sin, and we invested it
all in this house. In the fourth year of Nabonidos, king of Babylon, I claimed my dowry from
my husband Ben-Hadad-nathan, and he of his own free will gave me, under deed and seal, the
house in Borsippa and the eight roods on which it stood, and assigned it to me for ever, stating
in the deed he gave me that the two and one-half manehs which Ben-Hadad-nathan and Bunanitum
had received from Iddin-Merodach and laid out in buying this house had been their joint property.
This deed he sealed and called down in it the curse of the great gods (upon whoever should
violate it). In the fifth year of Nabonidos, king of Babylon, I and my husband, Ben-Hadad-nathan,
adopted Ben-Hadad-amara as our son and subscribed to the deed of adoption, and at the same
time we assigned two manehs ten shekels of silver and the furniture of the house as a dowry
for my daughter Nubtâ. My husband died, and now Aqabi-ilu (Jacob-el), the son of my father-in-law,
has raised a claim to the house and property which was willed and assigned to me, as well as
(a claim) to Nebo-nur-ilani, whom we bought for money through the agency of Nebo-akhi-iddin.

“I have brought him before you; pass judgment. The judges heard their pleas; they read the
deeds and contracts which Bunanitum produced in court, and disallowed the claim of Aqabi-ilu
to the house in Borsippa, which had been assigned to Bunanitum in lieu of her dowry, as well
as to Nebo-nur-ilani, whom she and her husband had bought, and to the rest of the property
of Ben-Hadad-nathan; they confirmed Bunanitum and Ben-Hadad-amara in their titles. (It was
further added that) Iddin-Merodach should receive in full the sum of two and one-half manehs
which he had given toward the purchase of the house, and that then Bunanitum should take in
full three and one-half manehs, the amount of her dowry, and that part of the property (which
had not been bequeathed to Nubtâ). Nebo-nur-ilani was to be given to Nubtâ in accordance with
the will of her father. The following judges were present at the delivery of this judgment:
Nergal-banunu the judge, the son of the architect; Nebo-akhi-iddin the judge, the son of Egibi;
Nebo-sum-ukin the judge, the son of Irani; Bel-akhi-iddin the judge, the son of ——; Nebo-balasu-iqbi
the judge, the son of ——; and the clerks Nadin and Nebo-sum-iskun. Babylon, the 29th day of
Elul, the ninth year of Nabonidos, king of Babylon.”

The term used in reference to the loan made by Iddin-Merodach implies that the lender accepted
a share in the property that was bought instead of demanding interest for his money. Hence
it was that, when the estate came to be settled after the death of Ben-Hadad-nathan, it was
necessary to pay him off. What the grounds were upon which Aqabi-ilu laid claim to the property
we are not told, and the dossier in which it was set forth has not been found. His name, however,
is interesting, as it proves that the old Western Semitic name of Jacob-el, of which the Biblical
Jacob is a shortened form, still survived in a slightly changed shape among the Syrian settlers
in Babylonia. Indeed, Iqubu, or Jacob itself, is found in a contract of the tenth year of Nabonidos
as the name of a coppersmith at Babylon. Two thousand years before there had been other Semitic
settlers in Babylonia from Western Asia who had also taken part in the legal transactions of
the country, and among whom the name of Ya’qub-ilu was known. The name had even spread to the
Assyrian colonists near Kaisarîyeh, in Cappadocia, who have left us inscriptions in uniform
characters, and among them it appears as Iqib-ilu. Iqib-ilu and Aqabi-ilu are alike kindred
forms of Ya’qub-ilu (or Yaqub-ilu), the Jacob-el of Canaan.

Death, more especially with “an iron sword,” was the punishment of the more serious offences;
imprisonment and scourging of lighter ones. Imprisonment might be accompanied by chains or
the stock, but the prisoner might also be left unfettered and be allowed to range freely through
the court or cell of the prison. Whether the penalty of imprisonment with hard labor was ever
inflicted is questionable; in a country where slavery existed and the corvée was in force there
would have been but little need for it.

The prisoner could be released on bail, his surety being responsible for his appearance when
it was required. Thus in the seventh year of Cyrus one of the officials of the temple of the
Sun-god at Sippara was put into “iron fetters” by the chief priest of the god, but was afterward
released, bail being given for him by another official of the temple. The latter undertook
to do the work of the prisoner if he absconded. The bail was offered and accepted before “the
priests and elders of the city,” and the registration of the fact was duly dated and attested
by witnesses. At a later date a citizen of Nippur was allowed to become surety for the release
of his nephew from prison on condition that the latter did not leave the city without permission.
The prison is called bit-karê, or “House of Walls.”(9)

There was another bit-karê, which had a very different meaning and was used for a very different
purpose. This was “the House of Cereals,” the storehouse or barn in which were stored such
tithes of the temples as were paid in grain. The name is also sometimes applied to the sutumme,
or royal storehouses, where the grain and dates collected by the tax-gatherers were deposited,
and from which the army and the civil servants were provided with food. The superintendent
of these storehouses was an important personage; he was the paymaster of the state officials,
in so far as they received their salaries in kind, and the loyalty of the standing army could
be trusted only so long as it could be fed. Similar storehouses existed in Egypt, from the
age of the eighteenth dynasty downward, and it is probable that the adoption of them was due
to Babylonian influence. They gave the King a powerful hold upon his subjects, by enabling
him to supply them with grain in the years of scarcity, or to withhold it except upon such
terms as he chose to make with them.

The exportation of the grain, moreover, was a yearly source of wealth and revenue which flowed
into the royal exchequer. In Babylonia, as in Egypt, the controller of the granaries was master
of the destinies of the people.

CHAPTER X. LETTER-WRITING

We are apt to look upon letter-writing as a modern invention, some of us, perhaps, as a modern
plague. But as a matter of fact it is an invention almost as old as civilization itself. As
soon as man began to invent characters by means of which he could communicate his thoughts
to others, he began to use them for holding intercourse with his absent friends. They took
the place of the oral message, which was neither so confidential nor so safe. Classical scholars
have long been familiar with the fact that letter-writing was one of the accomplishments of
an educated Greek and Roman. The letters of Cicero and Pliny are famous, and the letters of
Plato and Aristotle have been studied by a select few. Even Homer, who seems to avoid all reference
to the art of writing as if it were an unclean thing, tells us of “the baleful characters”
written on folded tablets, and sent by Prœtos to the King of Lycia. Criticism, it is true,
not so long ago doubted the facts of the story and tried to resolve the characters and the
tablets into a child’s drawings on the slate. But archæology has come to the rescue of Prœtos,
and while we now know that letters passed freely backward and forward in the world in which
he is supposed to have moved, Mr. Arthur Evans has discovered the very symbols which he is
likely to have used. Even the Lycians, to whom the letter was sent, have been found, not only
on the Egyptian monuments, but also in the tablets of Tel-el-Amarna.

Letter-writing in the East goes back to a remote antiquity. In the book of Chronicles it is
stated that the messages that passed between Hiram and Solomon were in writing, but the age
of Solomon was modern when compared with that to which some of the letters we now possess actually
belong. Centuries earlier the words “message” and “letter” had become synonymous terms, and
in Hebrew the word which had originally signified a “message” had come to mean a “book.” Not
only is a message conceived of as always written, but even the idea of a book is taken from
that of a letter. Nothing can show more plainly the important place occupied by literary correspondence
in the ancient Oriental world or the antiquity to which the art of the letter-writer reaches back.

While in Egypt the letter was usually written upon papyrus, in Western Asia the ordinary writing
material was clay. Babylonia had been the nurse and mother of its culture, and the writing
material of Babylonia was clay. Originally pictorial hieroglyphics had been drawn upon the
clay, but just as in Egypt the hieratic or running-hand of the scribe developed out of the
primitive pictographs, so too in Babylonia the pictures degenerated into cuneiform characters
which corresponded with the hieratic characters of the Egyptian script. What we call cuneiform
is essentially a cursive hand.

As for books, so also for letters the clay tablet was employed. It may seem to us indeed a
somewhat cumbrous mode of sending a letter; but it had the advantage of being solid and less
likely to be injured or destroyed than other writing materials. The characters upon it could
not be obliterated by a shower of rain, and there was no danger of its being torn. Moreover,
it must be remembered that the tablet was usually of small size. The cuneiform system of writing
allows a large number of words to be compressed into a small space, and the writing is generally
so minute as to try the eyes of the modern decipherer.

Some of the letters which have been discovered during the last few years go back to the early
days of the Babylonian monarchy. Many of them are dated in the reign of Khammurabi, or Amraphel,
among them being several that were written by the King himself. That we should possess the
autograph letters of a contemporary of Abraham is one of the romances of historical science,
for it must be remembered that the letters are not copies, but the original documents themselves.
What would not classical scholars give for the autograph originals of the letters of Cicero,
or theologians for the actual manuscripts that were written by the Evangelists? And yet here
we have the private correspondence of a prince who took part in the campaign against Sodom
and Gomorrah!

One of the letters which has found a resting-place in the Museum of Constantinople refers to
another of the actors in the campaign against the cities of the cunei-plain. This was the King
of Elam, Chedor-laomer, whose name is written Kudur-Loghghamar in the form. The Elamites had
invaded Babylonia and made it subject and tributary. Sin-idinnam, the King of Larsa, called
Ellasar in the book of Genesis, had been compelled to fly from his ancestral kingdom in the
south of Chaldea, and take refuge in Babylon at the court of Khammurabi. Eri-Aku, or Arioch,
the son of an Elamite prince, was placed on the throne of Larsa, while Khammurabi also had
to acknowledge himself a vassal of the Elamite King. But a time came when Khammurabi believed
himself strong enough to shake off the Elamite yoke, and though the war at first seemed to
go against him, he ultimately succeeded in making himself independent. Arioch and his Elamite
allies were driven from Larsa, and Babylon became the capital of a united monarchy. It was
after the overthrow of the Elamites that the letter was written in which mention is made of
Chedor-laomer. Its discoverer, Père Scheil, gives the following translation of it: “To Sin-idinnam,
Khammurabi says: I send you as a present (the images of) the goddesses of the land of Emutalum
as a reward for your valor on the day of (the defeat of) Chedor-laomer. If (the enemy) annoy
you, destroy their forces with the troops at your disposal, and let the images be restored
in safety to their old habitations.”(10)

The letter was found at Senkereh, the ancient Larsa, where, doubtless, it had been treasured
in the archive-chamber of the palace. Two other letters of Khammurabi, which are now at Constantinople,
have also been translated by Dr. Scheil. Fragments of clay had been found at Tello, bearing
the impressions of seals belonging to the officials of Sargon of Akkad and his successor, and
addressed to the viceroy of Lagas, to King Naram-Sin and other personages. They were, in fact,
the envelopes of letters and despatches which passed between Lagas and Agadê, or Akkad, the
capital of the dynasty.

Sometimes, however, the clay fragment has the form of a ball, and must then have been attached
by a string to the missive like the seals of mediæval deeds. In either case the seal of the
functionary from whom the missive came was imprinted upon it as well as the address of the
person for whom it was intended. Thousands of letters seem to have passed to and fro in this
manner, making it clear that the postal service of Babylonia was already well organized in
the time of Sargon and Naram-Sin. The Tel-el-Amarna letters show that in the fifteenth century
before our era a similar postal service was established throughout the Eastern world, from
the banks of the Euphrates to those of the Nile. To what an antiquity it reached back it is
at present impossible to say.

At all events, when Khammurabi was King, letters were frequent and common among the educated
classes of the population. Most of those which have been preserved are from private individuals
to one another, and consequently, though they tell us nothing about the political events of
the time, they illustrate the social life of the period and prove how like it was to our own.
One of them, for instance, describes the writer’s journey to Elam and Arrapakhitis, while another
relates to a ferry-boat and the boat-house in which it was kept. The boat-house, we are told,
had fallen into decay in the reign of Khammurabi, and was sadly in want of repair, while the
chief duty of the writer, who seems to have been the captain of the boat, was to convey the
merchants who brought various commodities to Babylon. If the merchant, the letter states, was
furnished with a royal passport, “we carried him across” the river; if he had no passport,
he was not allowed to go to Babylon. Among other purposes for which the vessel had been used
was the conveyance of lead, and it was capable of taking as much as 10 talents of the metal.
We further gather from the letter that it was the custom to employ Bedâwin as messengers.

Among the early Babylonian documents found at Sippara, and now in the Museum at Constantinople,
which have been published by Dr. Scheil, are two private letters of the same age and similar
character. The first is as follows: “To my father, thus says Zimri-eram: May the Sun-god and
Merodach grant thee everlasting life! May your health be good! I write to ask you how you are;
send me back news of your health. I am at present at Dur-Sin on the canal of Bit-Sikir. In
the place where I am living there is nothing to be had for food. So I am sealing up and sending
you three-quarters of a silver shekel. Come in the month of Marchesvan (October). May you live
for ever for my sake!”

It is plain that the writer was in love with his correspondent, and had grown impatient to
see her again. Both belonged to what we should call the professional classes, and nothing can
better illustrate how like in the matter of correspondence the age of Abraham was to our own.
The old Babylonian’s letter might easily have been written to-day, apart from the references
to Merodach and the Sun-god. It must be noticed, moreover, that the lady to whom the letter
is addressed is expected to reply to it. It is taken for granted that the ladies of Babylon
could read and write as well as the men. This, however, is only what might have been concluded
from the other facts of Babylonian social life, and the footing of equality with the man upon
which the woman was placed in all matters of business. The fact that she could hold and bequeath
property, and trade with it independently, implies that she was expected to know how to read
and write. Even among the Tel-el-Amarna we find one or two from a lady who seems to have taken
an active part in the politics of the day. The city of Zaphon has been captured. This is for
the information of the king my lord.”

The letters of Tel-el-Amarna bridge over the gulf that separates the early Babylonia of Khammurabi
from the later Assyria of Tiglath-pileser III. and his successors. The inner life of the intervening
period is still known to us but imperfectly. No library or large collection of tablets belonging
to it has as yet been discovered, and until this is the case we must remain less intimately
acquainted with it than we are with the age of Khammurabi on the one hand, or that of the second
Assyrian empire on the other.

It is true that the library of Nineveh, of which Assur-bani-pal was such a munificent patron,
has preserved copies of some of the earlier epistolary literature of the country. Thus we have
from it a fragment of a letter written by a King of Babylonia to two kings of Assyria, at a
time when Assyria still acknowledged the supremacy of Babylon. But such documents are very
rare, and apart from the Tel-el-Amarna tablets we have to descend to the days of the second
Assyrian empire before we find again a collection of letters.

These are the letters addressed to the Assyrian government, or more generally to the King,
in the reigns of Tiglath-pileser III., Shalmaneser IV., Sargon, Sennacherib, Esar-haddon, and
Assur-bani-pal. They were preserved in the royal library of Nineveh, principally on account
of their political and diplomatic importance, and are now in the British Museum. As might have
been expected from their character, they throw more light on the politics of the day than on
the social condition of the people. A few of them, however, are private communications to the
King on other than political matters, and we also find among them reports in the form of letters
from the royal astronomers, as well as upon such subjects as the importation of horses from
Asia Minor for the royal stud. The letters have been copied by Professor R. F. Harper, who
is now publishing them in a series of volumes. How numerous the letters are may be gathered
from the fact that no less than 1,575 of them (including fragments) have come from that part
of the library alone which was excavated by Sir A. H. Layard, and was the first to be brought
to England.

Many of them are despatches from generals in the field or from the governors of frontier towns
who write to inform the Assyrian government of the movements of the enemy or of the political
events in their own neighborhood. It is from these letters, for example, that we learn the
name of the King of Ararat who was the antagonist of Sennacherib and the predecessor of the
King Erimenas, to whom his murderers fled for protection. The details, again, of the long Elamite
war, which eventually laid Susa at the feet of Assyria, have been given us by them. It is needless,
therefore, to insist upon the value they possess for the historian.

Among them, however, as has been already said, are some of a more private character. Thus Dr.
Johnston gives the following translation of a letter from a certain Arad-Nana, who seems to
have been a consulting physician, to Esar-haddon about a friend of the prince who had suffered
from violent bleeding of the nose: “As regards the patient who has a bleeding from the nose,
the Rab-Mag (or chief physician) reports: ‘Yesterday, toward evening, there was a good deal
of hæmorrhage.’ The dressings have not been properly applied. They have been placed outside
the nostrils, oppressing the breathing and coming off when there is hæmorrhage. Let them be
put inside the nostrils and then the air will be excluded and the hæmorrhage stopped. If it
is agreeable to my lord the king I will go to-morrow and give instructions; (meanwhile) let
me know how the patient is.” Another letter from Arad-Nana translated by the same Assyriologist
is as follows: “To the king my lord, thy servant Arad-Nana: May there be peace for ever and
ever to the king my lord. May Ninip and Gula grant health of soul and body to the king my lord.
All is going on well with the poor fellow whose eyes are diseased. I had applied a dressing
covering the face. Yesterday, toward evening, undoing the bandage which held it (in place),
I removed the dressing. There was pus upon the dressing, the size of the tip of the little
finger. If any of your gods set his hand thereto, let him say so. Salutation for ever! Let
the heart of the king my lord be rejoiced. Within seven or eight days the patient will recover.”

The doctors were not alone in writing to the Assyrian King. Besides the reports which they
were bound to make, the astronomers also sent letters to him on the results of their observations.
Among the letters published by Professor Harper is an interesting one—unfortunately defaced
and imperfect—which was sent to Nineveh from one of the observatories in Babylonia.

As nothing is said about the eclipse of the sun which the astronomers at the Assyrian court
had led the King to expect, it is probable that it did not take place, or at all events that
it did not occur so soon as was anticipated. The expression “the land of the Amorites (and)
the land of the Hittites” is noteworthy on account of its biblical ring; in the mind of the
Assyrian, however, it merely denoted Palestine and Northern Syria. The Babylonians at an early
age called Palestine “the land of the Amorites,” the Assyrians termed it “the land of the Hittites,”
and it would appear that in the days of the second Assyrian empire, when Babylonia had become
a province of its Assyrian rival, the two names were combined together in order to denote what
we should entitle “Syria.”

Letters, however, were written to the King by all sorts of people, and upon all sorts of business.
Thus we find Assur-bani, the captain of a river-barge, writing about the conveyance of some
of those figures of colossal bulls which adorned the entrance to the palace of Sennacherib.
The letter is short and to the point: “To the king my lord, thy servant Assur-bani: Salutation
to the king my lord. Assur-mukin has ordered me to transport in boats the colossal bulls and
cherubim of stone. The boats are not strong enough, and are not ready. But if a present be
kindly made to us, we will see that they are got ready and ascend the river.” The unblushing
way in which bakshish is here demanded shows that in this respect, at all events, the East
has changed but little.

Of quite a different character is a letter about some wine that was sent to the royal cellars.
The writer says in it: “As for the wine about which the king my lord has written to me, there
are two homers of it for keeping, as well as plenty of the best oil.” Later on, in the same
letter, reference is made to a targu-manu, or “dragoman,” who was sent along with the wine,
which probably came from the Armenian highlands. It may be noted that in another letter mention
is made of a “master of languages,” who was employed in deciphering the despatches from Ararat.

A letter from the cellarers of the palace has been translated as follows by Dr. Johnston: “To
the king our lord, thy servants … Bel-iqisa and Babi-lû: Salutation to the king our lord! May
Assur, … Bel, and Nebo grant long life and everlasting years to the king our lord! Let the
king our lord know that the wine received during the month Tebet has been bottled, but that
there is no room for it, so we must make (new) cellars for the king our lord. Let the king
our lord give orders that a (place for) the cellars be shown to us, and we shall be relieved
from our embarrassment (?). The wine that has come for the king our lord is very considerable.
Where shall we put it?”

A good deal of the correspondence relates to the importation of horses from Eastern Asia Minor
for the stables of the Assyrian King. Thirteen horses from the land of Kusa, 3 foals from the
land of Kusa—in all 16 draught-horses; 14 stallions; altogether 30 horses and 9 mules—in all
39 from the city of Qornê: 6 horses from the land of Kusa; 3 foals from Kusa—in all 9 draught-horses;
14 stallions; altogether 23 horses and 9 mules—in all 28 from the city of Dâna (Tyana): 19
horses of Kusa and 39 stallions—altogether 57 from the city of Kullania (Calneh); 25 stallions
and 6 mules—in all 31 from the city of Arpad. All are gelded. Thirteen stallions and 10 mules—altogether
23 from the city of Isana. In all 54 horses from Kusa and 104 stallions, making 148 horses
and 30 mules—altogether 177 have been imported. (Dated) the second day of Sivan.”

