To maintain the momentum since September 11 and keep the global war on terrorism in the forefront,
all departments and agencies of the U.S. Government will promote combating terrorism as a standard
agenda item for their bilateral and multilateral discussions.

Objective: Strengthen and sustain the international effort to fight terrorism. Defeating terrorism
is our nation's primary and immediate priority. It is "our calling," as President Bush has
said. But it is not our challenge alone. Unlike the Cold War, where two opposing camps led
by superpower states vied for power, we are now engaged in a war between the civilized world
and those that would destroy it. Success will not come by always acting alone, but through
a powerful coalition of nations maintaining a strong, united international front against terrorism.

+Working with Willing and Able States+: An essential element of our strategy remains working
with others to reorient existing partnerships and create new mechanisms for cooperation among
the willing and able states around the world. No support will be more important to success
than that from the other nations that have the will and resources to combat terrorism with
us at the state, regional, and even global level.

In the aftermath of the September 11 attacks we have reaped the rewards of the investments
made in our major alliances during the past 50 years. These rewards are evident in NATO's unprecedented
invocation of Article V of the NATO Treaty, Australia's invocation of Article IV of the ANZUS
Treaty, and in the way both our NATO and ANZUS allies have matched words with deeds on every
front in the war against terrorism.

Military forces representing a broad coalition of countries from North America, Europe, the
Middle East and Oceania have participated in vital operations in Afghanistan. Japan has also
provided historic support to the campaign against terrorism. Our Western Hemispheric neighbors
invoked the Rio Treaty and have shown a commitment to combat terrorism through a new Inter-American
Convention Against Terrorism adopted in June 2002. But these alliances cannot be taken for
granted or remain static. We will strive to help them evolve to meet the demands of this new era.

At the same time, through our common efforts against terrorism, we are recasting our relations
with Russia, China, Pakistan, and India. The cooperation forged with these countries in the
war on terrorism highlights how our future relations need not be constrained by past differences.

Ensuring that the current level of international cooperation is a lasting feature of our world
will be a defining challenge of this era.

+Enabling Weak States+: Some countries are committed to fighting terrorism but lack the capacity
to fulfill their sovereign responsibilities. Some governments, for example, lack the legal
framework, training, or technical capabilities needed to fight money laundering. Others do
not have the law enforcement, intelligence, or military capabilities to assert effective control
over their entire territory. After September 11, we redoubled our efforts to develop programs
that help them to acquire the necessary capabilities to fight terrorism through a variety of
means, including improved legislation, technical assistance, new investigative techniques,
intelligence sharing, and law enforcement and military training. For example, we are stepping
up our efforts in the Balkans to help governments secure their borders and refocusing our assistance
to place increased priority on efforts to promote the rule of law. We are helping the Armed
Forces of the Philippines to build their capacity to fight terrorism through a robust training
and professional education program.

The United States will continue to develop comprehensive plans to build strong and agile partnerships,
particularly in regions that historically have been difficult to engage. We will work together
to develop programs to train foreign governments in tactics, techniques, and procedures to
combat terrorism. We will review funding for international counterterrorism training and assistance
programs and ensure adequate resources are available to strengthen the capabilities of key states.

We will continue to negotiate extradition and Mutual Legal Assistance Treaties (MLATs) and
expand the international coalition that supports the war on terrorism. We will conduct an extensive
review to determine the viability of establishing new institutions that may help combat terrorism.
And at every opportunity we will continue to enhance international counterterrorism cooperation
through the further expansion and sharing of intelligence and law enforcement information.
While focusing on terrorism, this effort will strengthen our strategic alignments and transform
the international environment. 

How their others will also prove will count also in the substance are and how they are receive
up+. Some same or very offspring can not be piled.

The one which interests us at nowadays is that across the action of some combinations of substances it is
easier to acquire nucleotide stream of electrons to flow way than the curious. Entirely usually
the resistance to what emf we are not applying to force as the stream across the contact. The
contact doesn't can not have the impinging in such two way.


These cases will be the most delicate. The United States recognizes that some governments might
place themselves in the crosshairs--and not just figuratively--by joining the war against terrorism.
Therefore, constructive engagement, with sustained diplomacy and targeted assistance will be
used to persuade these regimes to become more willing and, eventually able, to meet their international
obligations to combat terrorism.

+Compelling Unwilling States+: The unwilling states are those that sponsor or actively provide
sanctuary to terrorists. Those states that continue to sponsor terrorist organizations will
be held accountable for their actions.

Objective: Interdict and disrupt material support for terrorists. A key component of any nation's
sovereignty is control of its borders. Every nation bears responsibility for the people and
goods transiting its borders.

While we expect states to fulfill their obligations, we will nevertheless be prepared to interdict
terrorist ground, air, maritime, and cyber traffic by positioning forces and assets to deny
terrorists access to new recruits, financing, equipment, arms, and information. As part of
this undertaking, our National Strategy to Combat Weapons of Mass Destruction addresses the
most serious of these threats and outlines plans and policies to execute timely, effective
interdiction efforts against WMD-related materials, technologies, and expertise.

Some irresponsible governments--or extremist factions within them--seeking to further their
own agenda may provide terrorists access to WMD. Such actions would be unacceptable to the
United States. We are prepared to act decisively to stop terrorists from acquiring WMD or precursors.

Interdiction, whether against terrorist material support or WMD, will be carefully coordinated
to ensure prioritization of intelligence, proper allocation of resources, and, when necessary,
swift, decisive action. We will not permit the world's most dangerous regimes and terrorists
to threaten us with the world's most destructive weapons.

Drug trafficking and protection schemes surrounding the drug trade also generate vast sums
of money for international organized crime syndicates and terrorist organizations. Laundered
through the international financial system, this money then provides a huge source of virtually
untraceable funds to corrupt officials, bypass established financial controls, and further
other illegal activities, including arms trafficking and migrant smuggling. These activities
ensure a steady supply of weapons and cash and ease the movement of operatives for terrorist
organizations worldwide. Breaking the nexus between drugs and terror is a key objective in
our war on terrorism and the National Drug Control Strategy outlines U.S. goals in this area.

The United States will continue to work with our friends and allies to disrupt the financing
of terrorism. We will identify and block the sources of funding, freeze the assets of terrorists
and those who support them, deny terrorists access to the international financial system, protect
legitimate charities from being abused by terrorists, and prevent the movement of terrorists'
assets through alternative financial networks.

Sensitive technology in the hands of terrorists can be just as damaging to our war efforts
as weapons and financing. Therefore, we will continue to pursue an aggressive strategy that
identifies sensitive information and technology and outlines appropriate steps to preclude
terrorists from obtaining and exploiting them.

Objective: Eliminate terrorist sanctuaries and havens. Terrorism cannot have a place of refuge.
It must be rooted out and destroyed. The United States and the international community must
develop procedures and mechanisms that will eradicate terrorism wherever it exists. An essential
part of this campaign will be the promotion of international standards of behavior and national
legal systems to eliminate terrorist refuges.

The United States will work in concert with our international and regional partners to ensure
effective governance over ungoverned territory, which could provide sanctuary to terrorists.
Where there is a clear indication of terrorist activity in these areas, the United States,
in conjunction with our friends and allies, will work to eliminate these terrorist sanctuaries
and preclude any future access to these areas by terrorist organizations.

The Intelligence Community, in conjunction with the Department of Defense, the Department of
State, and others, will conduct an annual review and assessment of international terrorist
sanctuaries and subsequently develop plans that address the denial of these areas.

+Goal: Diminish the Underlying Conditions that Terrorists Seek to Exploit+

The third component of the 4D strategy is made up of the collective efforts to diminish conditions
that terrorists can exploit. While we recognize that there are many countries and people living
with poverty, deprivation, social disenfranchisement, and unresolved political and regional
disputes, those conditions do not justify the use of terror. However, many terrorist organizations
that have little in common with the poor and destitute masses exploit these conditions to their
advantage. The September 11 terrorists, for instance, came predominantly from the ranks of
the educated and middle-class and served in an organization led by a millionaire murderer.

These efforts to diminish underlying conditions have material as well as intangible dimensions.
Ongoing U.S. efforts to resolve regional disputes, foster economic, social, and political development,
market-based economies, good governance, and the rule of law, while not necessarily focused
on combating terrorism, contribute to the campaign by addressing underlying conditions that
terrorists often seek to manipulate for their own advantage. Additionally, diminishing these
conditions requires the United States, with its friends and allies, to win the "war of ideas,"
to support democratic values, and to promote economic freedom.

The United States does not propose to undertake this difficult challenge alone. The United
States has neither the resources nor the expertise to be in every place in the world. Moreover,
the struggle against terrorism is not solely an American struggle. Our friends and allies face
many of the same threats. It is essential for America to work with its friends and allies in
this campaign.

Objective: Partner with the international community to strengthen weak states and prevent the
(re)emergence of terrorism. Weak states and failed ones are a source of international instability.
Often, these states may become a sanctuary for terrorism. Therefore, we will ensure that efforts
designed to identify and diminish conditions contributing to state weakness and failure are
a central U.S. foreign policy goal. The principal objective of our collective response will
be the rebuilding of a state that can look after its own people--their welfare, health, prosperity,
and freedom--and control its borders. The United States is willing to assist the civilized
world--governments, nongovernmental agencies, and public-private partnerships--in undertaking
these efforts.

We will continue to expand bilateral and multilateral efforts, such as the U.S.-Middle East
Partnership Initiative, to promote good governance, the rule of law, respect for human rights,
and professionalization of local justice systems. In particular, we will broaden the scope
and strength of International Law Enforcement Academies, and combatant commands will address
civil-military relations and humanitarian assistance in their Theater Security Cooperation
Plans. Additionally, the Chiefs of Mission will support and report on U.S. and local efforts
to diminish underlying conditions of terrorism and encourage all nations to implement anti-corruption
measures pursuant to multilateral, regional, or bilateral agreements. A state's stand on terrorism
will be considered when providing aid to that country.

Objective: Win the War of Ideas. Together with the international community, we will wage a
war of ideas to make clear that all acts of terrorism are illegitimate, to ensure that the
conditions and ideologies that promote terrorism do not find fertile ground in any nation,
to diminish the underlying conditions that terrorists seek to exploit in areas most at risk,
and to kindle the hopes and aspirations of freedom of those in societies ruled by the sponsors
of global terrorism.

We must use the full influence of the United States to delegitimize terrorism and make clear
that all acts of terrorism will be viewed in the same light as slavery, piracy, or genocide:
behavior that no respectable government can condone or support and all must oppose. In short,
with our friends and allies, we aim to establish a new international norm regarding terrorism
requiring non-support, non-tolerance, and active opposition to terrorists.

The United States will seek to support moderate and modern governments, especially in the Muslim
world. We will continue assuring Muslims that American values are not at odds with Islam. Indeed,
the United States has come to the aid of many Muslims in the past--in Afghanistan, Kuwait,
Bosnia, and Kosovo, to name a few. The United States will work with such moderate and modern
governments to reverse the spread of extremist ideology and those who seek to impose totalitarian
ideologies on our Muslim allies and friends.

