On our way out the newspaper rooms we stumbled over the basket in which is deposited the literary
material we cannot use. The basket upset and surprised us with its contents. On the top were
some things that looked like fifteen or twenty poems. People outside have no idea of the amount
of rhyme that comes to a printing office. The fact is that at some period in every one's life
he writes "poetry." His existence depends upon it. We wrote ten or fifteen verses ourselves
once. Had we not written them just then and there, we might not be here. They were in long
metre, and "Old Hundred" would have fitted them grandly.

Many people are seized with the poetic spasm when they are sick, and their lines are apt to
begin with.

  "O mortality! how frail art thou!"

Others on Sabbath afternoons write Sabbath-school hymns, adding to the batch of infinite nonsense
that the children are compelled to swallow. For others a beautiful curl is a corkscrew pulling
out canto after canto. Nine-tenths of the rhyme that comes to a printing office cannot be used.
You hear a rough tear of paper, and you look around to see the managing editor adding to the
responsibilities of his chip-basket. What a way that is to treat incipient Tennysons and Longfellows!

Next to the poetic effusions tumble out treatises on "constitutional law" heavy enough to break
the basket. We have noticed that after a man has got so dull he can get no one willing to hear
him he takes to profound exposition. Out from the same chip-basket rolls a great pile of announcements
that people want put among the editorials, so as to save the expense of the advertising column.
They tell us the article they wish recommended will have a highly beneficial effect upon the
Church and world. It is a religious churn, or a moral horse-rake, or a consecrated fly trap.
They almost get us crying over their new kind of grindstone, and we put the letter down on
the table while we get out our pocket-handkerchief, when our assistant takes hold the document
and gives it a ruthless rip, and pitches it into the chip-basket.

Next in the pile of torn and upset things is the speech of some one on the momentous occasion
of the presentation of a gold-headed cane, or silver pitcher, or brass kettle for making preserves.
It was "unexpected," a "surprise" and "undeserved," and would "long be cherished." "Great applause,
and not a dry eye in the house," etc., etc. But there is not much room in a paper for speeches.
In this country everybody speaks.

An American is in his normal condition when he is making a speech. He is born with "fellow-citizens"
in his mouth, and closes his earthly life by saying, "One word more, and I have done." Speeches
being so common, newspaper readers do not want a large supply, and so many of these utterances,
intended to be immortal, drop into oblivion through that inexhaustible reservoir, the editorial
chip-basket.

But there is a hovering of pathos over this wreck of matter. Some of these wasted things were
written for bread by intelligent wives with drunken husbands trying to support their families
with the pen. Over that mutilated manuscript some weary man toiled until daybreak. How we wish
we could have printed what they wrote! Alas for the necessity that disappoints the literary
struggle of so many women and men, when it is ten dollars for that article or children gone
supperless to bed!

Let no one enter the field of literature for the purpose of "making a living" unless as a very
last resort. There are thousands of persons to-day starving to death with a steel pen in their
hand. The story of Grub street and poets living on thin soup is being repeated all over this
land, although the modern cases are not so conspicuous. Poverty is no more agreeable because
classical and set in hexameters. The hungry author cannot breakfast on "odes to summer." On
this, cold day how many of the literati are shivering! Martyrs have perished in the fire, but
more persons have perished for lack of fire. Let no editor through hypercriticism of contributed
articles add to this educated suffering.

What is that we hear in the next room? It is the roar of a big fire as it consumes unavailable
literary material--epics, sonnets, homilies, tractates, compilations, circulars, dissertations.
Some of them were obscure, and make a great deal of smoke. Some of them were merry, and crackle.
All of them have ended their mission and gone down, ashes to ashes and dust to dust.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

THE MANHOOD OF SERVICE.

At the Crawford House, White Mountains, we noticed, one summer, unusual intelligence and courtesy
on the part of those who served the tables. We found out that many of them were students from
the colleges and seminaries--young men and women who had taken this mode of replenishing their
purses and getting the benefit of mountain air. We felt like applauding them. We have admiration
for those who can be independent of the oppressive conventionalities of society. May not all
of us practically adopt the Christian theory that any work is honorable that is useful? The
slaves of an ignominious pride, how many kill themselves earning a living! We have tens of
thousands of women in our cities, sitting in cold rooms, stabbing their life out with their
needles, coughing their lungs into tubercles and suffering the horrors of the social inquisition,
for whom there waits plenty of healthy, happy homes in the country, if they could only, like
these sons and daughters of Dartmouth and Northampton, consent to serve. We wish some one would
explain to us how a sewing machine is any more respectable than a churn, or a yard stick is
better than a pitchfork. We want a new Declaration of Independence, signed by all the laboring
classes. There is plenty of work for all kinds of people, if they were not too proud to do
it. Though the country is covered with people who can find nothing to do, we would be willing
to open a bureau to-morrow, warranting to give to all the unemployed of the land occupation,
if they would only consent to do what might be assigned them. We believe anything is more honorable
than idleness.

During very hard times two Italian artists called at our country home, asking if we did not
want some sketching done, and they unrolled some elegant pictures, showing their fine capacity.
We told them we had no desire for sketches, but we had a cistern to clean, and would pay them
well for doing it. Off went their coats, and in a few hours the work was done and their wages
awarded. How much more honorable for them to do what they could get to do rather than to wait
for more adapted employment!

Why did not the girls of Northampton spend their summers embroidering slippers or hemming handkerchiefs,
and thus keep at work unobserved and more popular? Because they were not fools. They said:
"Let us go up and see Mount Adams, and the Profile, and Mount Washington. We shall have to
work only five hours a day, and all the time we will be gathering health and inspiration."
Young men, those are the girls to seek when you want a wife, rather than the wheezing victims
of ruinous work chosen because it is more popular. About the last thing we would want to marry
is a medicine-chest. Why did not the students of Dartmouth, during their vacation, teach school?
First, because teaching is a science, and they did not want to do three months of damage to
the children of the common school. Secondly, because they wanted freedom from books as man
makes them, and opportunity to open the ponderous tome of boulder and strata as God printed
them. Churches and scientific institutions, these will be the men to call--brawny and independent,
rather than the bilious, short-breathed, nerveless graduates who, too proud to take healthful
recreation, tumble, at commencement day, into the lap of society so many Greek roots.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

BALKY PEOPLE.

Passing along a country road quite recently, we found a man, a horse and wagon in trouble.
The vehicle was slight and the road was good, but the horse refused to draw, and his driver
was in a bad predicament. He had already destroyed his whip in applying inducements to progress
in travel. He had pulled the horse's ears with a sharp string. He had backed him into the ditch.
He had built a fire of straw underneath him, the only result a smashed dash-board. The chief
effect of the violences and cruelties applied was to increase the divergency of feeling between
the brute and his master. We said to the besweated and outraged actor in the scene that the
best thing for him to do was to let his horse stand for a while unwhipped and uncoaxed, setting
some one to watch him while he, the driver, went away to cool off. We learned that the plan
worked admirably; that the cold air, and the appetite for oats, and the solitude of the road,
favorable for contemplation, had made the horse move for adjournment to some other place and
time; and when the driver came up, he had but to take up the reins, and the beast, erst so
obstinate, dashed down the road at a perilous speed.

There is not as much difference between horses and men as you might suppose. The road between
mind and equine instinct is short and soon traveled. The horse is sometimes superior to his
rider. If anything is good and admirable in proportion as it answers the end of its being,
then the horse that bends into its traces before a Fourth avenue car is better than its blaspheming
driver. He who cannot manage a horse cannot manage a man.

We know of pastors who have balky parishioners. When any important move is to take place, and
all the other horses of the team are willing to draw, they lay themselves back in the harness.

First the pastor pats the obstreperous elder or deacon on the neck and tells him how much he
thinks of him. This only makes him shake his mane and grind his bit. He will die first before
he consents to such a movement. Next, he is pulled by the ear, with a good many sharp insinuations
as to his motives for holding back. Fires of indignation are built under him for the purpose
of consuming his balkiness. He is whipped with the scourge of public opinion, but this only
makes him kick fiercely and lie harder in the breeching-straps. He is backed down into the
ditch of scorn and contempt, but still is not willing to draw an ounce. O foolish minister,
trying in that way to manage a balky parishioner! Let him alone. Go on and leave him there.
Pay less attention to the horse that balks, and give more oats to those that pull. Leave him
out in the cold. Some day you will come back and find him glad to start. At your first advance
he will arch his neck, paw his hoof, bend into the bit, stiffen the traces and dash on. We
have the same prescription for balky horses and men: for a little while let them alone.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

ANONYMOUS LETTERS.

In boyhood days we were impressed with the fertility of a certain author whose name so often
appeared in the spelling books and readers, styled Anon. He seemed to write more than Isaac
Watts, or Shakespeare, or Blair. In the index, and scattered throughout all our books, was
the name of Anon. He appeared in all styles of poetry and prose and dialogue. We wondered where
he lived, what his age was, and how he looked, it was not until quite late in boyhood that
we learned that Anon was an abbreviation for anonymous, and that he was sometimes the best
saint and at other times the most extraordinary villain.

After centuries of correspondence old Anonymous is as fertile of thought and brain and stratagem
as ever, and will probably keep on writing till the last fire burns up his pen and cracks to
pieces his ink bottle. Anonymous letters sometimes have a mission of kindness and gratitude
and good cheer. Genuine modesty may sometimes hide the name of an epistolary author or authoress.
It may be a "God bless you" from some one who thinks herself hardly in a position to address
you. It may be the discovery of a plot for your damage, in which the revelator does not care
to take the responsibility of a witness. It may be any one of a thousand things that mean frankness
and delicacy and honor and Christian principle. We have received anonymous letters which we
have put away among our most sacred archives.

But we suppose every one chiefly associates the idea of anonymous communications with everything
cowardly and base. There are in all neighborhoods perfidious, sneaking, dastardly, filthy,
calumnious, vermin-infested wretches, spewed up from perdition, whose joy it is to write letters
with fictitious signatures. Sometimes they take the shape of a valentine, the fourteenth of
February being a great outlet for this obscene spawn. If your nose be long, or your limbs slender,
or your waist thick around, they will be pictorially presented. Sometimes they take the form
of a delicate threat that if you do not thus or so there will be a funeral at your house, yourself
the chief object of interest. Sometimes they will be denunciatory of your friends. Once being
called to preside at a meeting for the relief of the sewing women of Philadelphia, and having
been called in the opening speech to say something about oppressive contractors, we received
some twenty anonymous letters, the purport of which was that it would be unsafe for us to go
out of doors after dark. Three months after moving to Brooklyn we preached a sermon reviewing
one of the sins of the city, and anonymous letters came saying that we would not last six months
in the city of churches.

Sometimes the anonymous crime takes the form of a newspaper article; and if the matter be pursued,
the editor-in-chief puts it off on the managing editor, and the managing editor upon the book
critic, and the book critic upon the reporter.

Whether Adam or Eve or the serpent was the most to be blamed for the disappearance of the fair
apple of reputation is uncertain; the only thing you can be sure of is that the apple is gone.
No honest man will ever write a thing for a newspaper, in editorial or any other column, that
he would be ashamed to sign with the Christian name that his mother had him baptized with.
They who go skulking about under the editorial "we," unwilling to acknowledge their identity,
are more fit for Delaware whipping-posts than the position of public educators. It is high
time that such hounds were muzzled.

Let every young man know that when he is tempted to pen anything which requires him to disguise
his handwriting he is in fearful danger. You despoil your own nature by such procedure more
than you can damage any one else. Bowie-knife and dagger are more honorable than an anonymous
pen sharpened for defamation of character. Better try putting strychnine in the flour barrel.
Better mix ratsbane in the jelly cake. That behavior would be more elegant and Christian.

After much observation we have fixed upon this plan: If any one writes us in defamation of
another, we adopt the opposite theory. If the letter says that the assaulted one lies, we take
it as eulogistic of his veracity; or that he is unchaste, we set him down as pure; or fraudulent,
we are seized with a desire to make him our executor. We do so on logical and unmistakable
grounds. A defamatory letter is from the devil or his satellites. The devil hates only the
good. The devil hates Mr. A; ergo, Mr. A is good.

Much of the work of the day of judgment will be with the authors of anonymous letters. The
majority of other crimes against society were found out, but these creatures so disguised their
handwriting in the main text of the letter, or so willfully misspelled the direction on the
envelope, and put it in such a distant post-office, and looked so innocent when you met them,
that it shall be for the most part a dead secret till the books are opened; and when that is
done, we do not think these abandoned souls will wait to have their condemnation read, but,
ashamed to meet the announcement, will leap pell-mell into the pit, crying, "We wrote them."

If, since the world stood, there have been composed and sent off by mail or private postmen
1,600,378 anonymous letters derogatory of character, then 1,600,378 were vicious and damnable.
If you are compelled to choose between writing a letter with false signature vitriolic of any
man's integrity or any woman's honor on the one hand, and the writing a letter with a red-hot
nail dipped in adder's poison on a sheet woven of leper scales, choose the latter. It were
healthier, nobler, and could better endure the test of man's review and God's scrutiny.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

BRAWN OR BRAIN.

Governor Wiseman (our oracular friend who talked in the style of an oration) was with us this
evening at the tea-table, and we were mentioning the fact that about thirty colleges last summer
in the United States contested for the championship in boat-racing. About two hundred thousand
young ladies could not sleep nights, so anxious were they to know whether Yale or Williams
would be the winner. The newspapers gave three and four columns to the particulars, the telegraph
wires thrilled the victory to all parts of the land. Some of the religions papers condemned
the whole affair, enlarging upon the strained wrists, broken blood-vessels and barbaric animalism
of men who ought to have been rowing their race with the Binomial Theorem for one oar and Kames'
Elements of Criticism for the other.

For the most part, we sympathized with the boys, and confess that at our hotel we kept careful
watch of the bulletin to see whose boat came in ahead. We are disposed to applaud anything
that will give our young men muscular development. Students have such a tendency to lounge,
and mope, and chew, and eat almond-nuts at midnight, and read novels after they go to bed,
the candlestick set up on Webster's dictionary or the Bible, that we prize anything that makes
them cautious about their health, as they must be if they would enter the list of contestants.
How many of our country boys enter the freshman class of college in robust health, which lasts
them about a twelvemonth; then in the sophomore they lose their liver; in the junior they lose
their stomach; in the senior they lose their back bone; graduating skeletons, more fit for
an anatomical museum than the bar or pulpit.

"Midnight oil," so much eulogized, is the poorest kind of kerosene. Where hard study kills
one student, bad habits kill a hundred. Kirk White, while at Cambridge, wrote beautiful hymns;
but if he had gone to bed at ten o'clock that night instead of three o'clock the next morning,
he would have been of more service to the world and a healthier example to all collegians.
Much of the learning of the day is morbid, and much of the religion bilious. We want, first
of all, a clean heart, and next a strong stomach. Falling from grace is often chargeable to
derangement of gastric juices. Oar and bat may become salutary weapons.

But, after all, there was something wrong about those summer boat-races. A student with a stout
arm, and great girth, and full chest, and nothing else, is not at all admirable. Mind and body
need to be driven tandem, the body for the wheel horse and the intellect the leader. We want
what is now proposed in some directions--a grand collegiate literary race. Let the mental contest
be on the same week with the muscular. Let Yale and Harvard and Williams and Princeton and
Dartmouth see who has the champion among scholars. Let there be a Waterloo in belles-lettres
and rhetoric and mathematics and philosophy. Let us see whether the students of Doctors McCosh,
or Porter, or Campbell, or Smith are most worthy to wear the belt. About twelve o'clock at
noon let the literary flotilla start prow and prow, oar-lock and oar-lock. Let Helicon empty
its waters to swell the river of knowledge on which they row. Right foot on right rib of the
boat, and left foot on the left rib--bend into it, my hearties, bend!--and our craft come out
four lengths ahead.

Give the brain a chance as well as the arm. Do not let the animal eat up the soul. Let the
body be the well-fashioned hulk, and the mind the white sails, all hoisted, everything, from
flying jib to spanker, bearing on toward the harbor of glorious achievement. When that boat
starts, we want to be on the bank to cheer, and after sundown help fill the air with sky-rockets.

"By the way," I said, "Governor Wiseman, do you not think that we need more out-door exercise,
and that contact with the natural world would have a cheering tendency? Governor, do you ever
have the blues?"

The governor, putting his knife across the plate and throwing his spectacles up on his forehead,
replied:

Almost every nature, however sprightly, sometimes will drop into a minor key, or a subdued
mood that in common parlance is recognized as "the blues." There may be no adverse causes at
work, but somehow the bells of the soul stop ringing, and you feel like sitting quiet, and
you strike off fifty per cent from all your worldly and spiritual prospects. The immediate
cause may be a northeast wind, or a balky liver, or an enlarged spleen, or pickled oysters
at twelve o'clock the night before.

In such depressed state no one can afford to sit for an hour. First of all let him get up and
go out of doors. Fresh air, and the faces of cheerful men, and pleasant women, and frolicsome
children, will in fifteen minutes kill moping. The first moment your friend strikes the keyboard
of your soul it will ring music. A hen might as well try on populous Broadway to hatch out
a feathery group as for a man to successfully brood over his ills in lively society. Do not
go for relief among those who feel as badly as you do. Let not toothache, and rheumatism, and
hypochondria go to see toothache, rheumatism and hypochondria. On one block in Brooklyn live
a doctor, an undertaker and a clergyman. That is not the row for a nervous man to walk on,
lest he soon need all three. Throw back all the shutters of your soul and let the sunlight
of genial faces shine in.

Besides that, why sit ye here with the blues, ye favored sons and daughters of men? Shone upon
by such stars, and breathed on by such air, and sung to by so many pleasant sounds, you ought
not to be seen moping. Especially if light from the better world strikes its aurora through
your night sky, ought you be cheerful. You can afford to have a rough luncheon by the way if
it is soon to end amid the banqueters in white. Sailing toward such a blessed port, do not
have your flag at half mast. Leave to those who take too much wine "the gloomy raven tapping
at the chamber door, on the night's Plutonian shore," and give us the robin red-breast and
the chaffinch. Let some one with a strong voice give out the long-metre doxology, and the whole
world "Praise God, from whom all blessings flow."

"But do you not suppose, Governor Wiseman, that every man has his irritated days?"

Yes, yes, responded the governor. There are times when everything seems to go wrong. From seven
o'clock a.m. till ten p.m. affairs are in a twist. You rise in the morning, and the room is
cold, and a button is off, and the breakfast is tough, and the stove smokes, and the pipes
burst, and you start down the street nettled from head to foot. All day long things are adverse.
Insinuations, petty losses, meanness on the part of customers. The ink bottle upsets and spoils
the carpet. Some one gives a wrong turn to the damper, and the gas escapes. An agent comes
in determined to insure your life, when it is already insured for more than it is worth, and
you are afraid some one will knock you on the head to get the price of your policy; but he
sticks to you, showing you pictures of old Time and the hour-glass, and Death's scythe and
a skeleton, making it quite certain that you will die before your time unless you take out
papers in his company. Besides this, you have a cold in your head, and a grain of dirt in your
eye, and you are a walking uneasiness. The day is out of joint, and no surgeon can set it.

The probability is that if you would look at the weather-vane you would find that the wind
is northeast, and you might remember that you have lost much sleep lately. It might happen
to be that you are out of joint instead of the day. Be careful and not write many letters while
you are in that irritated mood. You will pen some things that you will be sorry for afterward.

Let us remember that these spiked nettles of life are part of our discipline. Life would get
nauseating if it were all honey. That table would be poorly set that had on it nothing but
treacle. We need a little vinegar, mustard, pepper and horse-radish that brings the tears even
when we do not feel pathetic. If this world were all smoothness, we would never be ready for
emigration to a higher and better. Blustering March and weeping April prepare us for shining
May. This world is a poor hitching post. Instead of tying fast on the cold mountains, we had
better whip up and hasten on toward the warm inn where our good friends are looking out of
the window, watching to see us come up.

Interrupting the governor at this point, we asked him if he did not think that rowing, ball
playing and other athletic exercises might be made an antidote to the morbid religion that
is sometimes manifest. The governor replied:

No doubt much of the Christian character of the day lacks in swarthiness and power. It is gentle
enough, and active enough, and well meaning enough, but is wanting in moral muscle. It can
sweetly sing at a prayer meeting, and smile graciously when it is the right time to smile,
and makes an excellent nurse to pour out with steady hand a few drops of peppermint for a child
that feels disturbances under the waistband, but has no qualification for the robust Christian
work that is demanded.

One reason for this is the ineffable softness of much of what is called Christian literature.
The attempt is to bring us up on tracts made up of thin exhortations and goodish maxims. A
nerveless treatise on commerce or science in that style would be crumpled up by the first merchant
and thrown into his waste-basket. Religious twaddle is of no more use than worldly twaddle.
If a man has nothing to say, he had better keep his pen wiped and his tongue still. There needs
an infusion of strong Anglo-Saxon into religious literature, and a brawnier manliness and more
impatience with insipidity, though it be prayerful and sanctimonious. He who stands with irksome
repetitions asking people to "Come to Jesus," while he gives no strong common-sense reason
why they should come, drives back the souls of men. If, with all the thrilling realities of
eternity at hand, a man has nothing to write which can gather up and master the thoughts and
feelings of men, his writing and speaking are a slander on the religion which he wishes to
eulogize.

Morbidity in religion might be partially cured by more out-door exercise. There are some duties
we can perform better on our feet than on our knees. If we carry the grace of God with us down
into every-day practical Christian work, we will get more spiritual strength in five minutes
than by ten hours of kneeling. If Daniel had not served God save when three times a day he
worshiped toward the temple, the lions would have surely eaten him up. The school of Christ
is as much out-of-doors as in-doors. Hard, rough work for God will develop an athletic soul.
Religion will not conquer either the admiration or the affections of men by effeminacy, but
by strength. Because the heart is soft is no reason why the head should be soft. The spirit
of genuine religion is a spirit of great power. When Christ rides in apocalyptic vision, it
is not on a weak and stupid beast, but on a horse--emblem of majesty and strength: "And he
went forth conquering and to conquer."

CHAPTER XL.

WARM-WEATHER RELIGION.

It takes more grace to be an earnest and useful Christian in summer than in any other season.
The very destitute, through lack of fuel and thick clothing, may find the winter the trying
season, but those comfortably circumstanced find summer the Thermopylæ that tests their Christian
courage and endurance.

The spring is suggestive of God and heaven and a resurrection day. That eye must be blind that
does not see God's footstep in the new grass, and hear His voice in the call of the swallow
at the eaves. In the white blossoms of the orchards we find suggestion of those whose robes
have been made white in the blood of the Lamb. A May morning is a door opening into heaven.

So autumn mothers a great many moral and religious suggestions. The season of corn husking,
the gorgeous woods that are becoming the catafalque of the dead year, remind the dullest of
his own fading and departure.

But summer fatigues and weakens, and no man keeps his soul in as desirable a frame unless by
positive resolution and especial implorations. Pulpit and pew often get stupid together, and
ardent devotion is adjourned until September.

But who can afford to lose two months out of each year, when the years are so short and so
few? He who stops religious growth in July and August will require the next six months to get
over it. Nay, he never recovers. At the season when the fields are most full of leafage and
life let us not be lethargic and stupid.

Let us remember that iniquity does not cease in summer-time. She never takes a vacation. The
devil never leaves town. The child of want, living up that dark alley, has not so much fresh
air nor sees as many flowers as in winter-time. In cold weather the frost blossoms on her window
pane, and the snow falls in wreaths in the alley. God pity the wretchedness that pants and
sweats and festers and dies on the hot pavements and in the suffocating cellars of the town!

Let us remember that our exit from this world will more probably be in the summer than in any
other season, and we cannot afford to die at a time when we are least alert and worshipful.
At mid-summer the average of departures is larger than in cool weather. The sun-strokes, the
dysenteries, the fevers, the choleras, have affinity for July and August. On the edge of summer
Death stands whetting his scythe for a great harvest. We are most careful to have our doors
locked, and our windows fastened, and our "burglar alarm" set at times when thieves are most
busy, and at a season of the year when diseases are most active in their burglaries of life
we need to be ready.

Our charge, therefore, is, make no adjournment of your religion till cool weather. Whether
you stay in town, or seek the farm house, or the sea-shore, or the mountains, be faithful in
prayer, in Bible reading and in attendance upon Christian ordinances. He who throws away two
months of life wastes that for which many a dying sinner would have been willing to give all
his possessions when he found that the harvest was past and the summer was ended.

The thermometer to-day has stood at a high mark. The heat has been fierce. As far as possible
people have kept within doors or walked on the shady side of the street. But we can have but
a faint idea of what the people suffer crossing a desert or in a tropical clime. The head faints,
the tongue swells and deathly sickness comes upon the whole body when long exposed to the summer
sun. I see a whole caravan pressing on through the hot sands. "Oh," say the camel-drivers,
"for water and shade!" At last they see an elevation against the sky. They revive at the eight
and push on. That which they saw proves to be a great rock, and camels and drivers throw themselves
down under the long shadow. Isaiah, who lived and wrote in a scorching climate, draws his figure
from what he had seen and felt when he represents God as the shadow of a great rock in a weary
land.

Many people have found this world a desert-march. They go half consumed of trouble all their
days. But glory be to God! we are not turned out on a desert to die. Here is the long, cool,
certain, refreshing shadow of the Lord.

A tree, when in full leafage, drops a great deal of refreshment; but in a little while the
sun strikes through, and you keep shifting your position, until, after a while, the sun is
set at such a point that you have no shade at all. But go in the heart of some great rock,
such as you see in Yosemite or the Alps, and there is everlasting shadow. There has been thick
shade there for six thousand years, and will be for the next six thousand. So our divine Rock,
once covering us, always covers us. The same yesterday, to-day and for ever! always good, always
kind, always sympathetic! You often hold a sunshade over your head passing along the road or
a street; but after a while your arm gets tired, and the very effort to create the shadow makes
you weary. But the rock in the mountains, with fingers of everlasting stone, holds its own
shadow. So God's sympathy needs no holding up from us. Though we are too weak from sickness
or trouble to do anything but lie down, over us He stretches the shadow of His benediction.

It is our misfortune that we mistake God's shadow for the night. If a man come and stand between
you and the sun, his shadow falls upon you. So God sometimes comes and stands between us and
worldly successes, and His shadow falls upon us, and we wrongly think that it is night. As
a father in a garden stoops down to kiss his child the shadow of his body falls upon it; and
so many of the dark misfortunes of our life are not God going away from us, but our heavenly
Father stooping down to give us the kiss of His infinite and everlasting love. It is the shadow
of a sheltering Rock, and not of a devouring lion.

Instead of standing right out in the blistering noon-day sun of earthly trial and trouble,
come under the Rock. You may drive into it the longest caravan of disasters. Room for the suffering,
heated, sunstruck, dying, of all generations, in the shadow of the great Rock:

  "Rock of ages, cleft for me,
  Let me hide myself in Thee."

CHAPTER XLI.

HIDING EGGS FOR EASTER.

Those who were so unfortunate as to have been born and brought up in the city know nothing
about that chapter in a boy's history of which I speak.

About a month before Easter there comes to the farmhouse a scarcity of eggs. The farmer's wife
begins to abuse the weasels and the cats as the probable cause of the paucity. The feline tribe
are assaulted with many a harsh "Scat!" on the suspicion of their fondness for omelets in the
raw. Custards fail from the table. The Dominick hens are denounced as not worth their mush.
Meanwhile, the boys stand round the corner in a broad grin at what is the discomfiture of the
rest of the family.

The truth must be told that the boys, in anticipation of Easter, have, in some hole in the
mow or some barrel in the wagon-house, been hiding eggs. If the youngsters understand their
business, they will compromise the matter, and see that at least a small supply goes to the
house every day. Too great greed on the part of the boy will discover the whole plot, and the
charge will be made: "De Witt, I believe you are hiding the eggs!" Forthwith the boy is collared
and compelled to disgorge his possessions.

Now, there is nothing more trying to a boy than, after great care in accumulating these shelly
resources, to have to place them in a basket and bring them forth to the light two weeks before
Easter. Boys, therefore, manage with skill and dexterity. At this season of the year you see
them lurking much about the hayrick and the hay-loft. You see them crawling out from stacks
of straw and walking away rapidly with their hands behind them. They look very innocent, for
I have noticed that the look of innocence in boys is proportioned to the amount of mischief
with which they are stuffed. They seem to be determined to risk their lives on mow-poles where
the hay lies thin. They come out from under the stable floor in a despicable state of toilet,
and cannot give any excuse for their depreciation of apparel. Hens flutter off the nest with
an unusual squawk, for the boys cannot wait any longer for the slow process of laying, and
hens have no business to stand in the way of Easter. The most tedious hours of my boyhood were
spent in waiting for a hen to get off her nest. No use to scare her off, for then she will
get mad, and just as like as not take the egg with her. Indeed, I think the boy is excusable
for his haste if his brother has a dozen eggs and he has only eleven.

At this season of the year the hens are melancholy. They want to hatch, but how can they? They
have the requisite disposition, and the capacity, and the feathers, and the nest, and everything
but the eggs. With that deficit, they sometimes sit obstinately and defy the boy's approaches.
Many a boy has felt the sharp bill of old Dominick strike the back of his hand, inflicting
a wound that would have roused up the whole farmhouse to see what was the matter had it not
been that the boy wanted to excite no suspicion as to the nature of his expedition. Immediately
over the hen's head comes the boy's cap, and there is a scatteration of feathers all over the
hay-mow, and the boy is victor.

But at last the evening before Easter comes. While the old people are on the piazza the children
come in with the accumulated treasures of many weeks, and put down the baskets. Eggs large
and small, white-shelled and brown, Cochin-Chinas and Brahmapooters. The character of the hens
is vindicated. The cat may now lie in the sun without being kicked by false suspicions. The
surprised exclamation of parents more than compensates the boys for the strategy of long concealment.
The meanest thing in the world is for father and mother not to look surprised in such circumstances.

It sometimes happens that, in the agitation of bringing the eggs into the household harbor,
the boy drops the hat or the basket, and the whole enterprise is shipwrecked. From our own
experience, it is very difficult to pick up eggs after you have once dropped them. You have
found the same experience in after life. Your hens laid a whole nestful of golden eggs on Wall
street. You had gathered them up. You were bringing them in. You expected a world of congratulations,
but just the day before the consummation, something adverse ran against you, and you dropped
the basket, and the eggs broke. Wise man were you if, instead of sitting down to cry or attempting
to gather up the spilled yolks, you built new nests and invited a new laying.

