The flock was driven by as well as could be managed, and a moment later an old man came up
to us, and asked if we had seen a ewe passing from the west. 'A sheep is after passing,' said
the farmer I was talking to, 'but it was not one of yours, for it was too wilful; it was a
mountain sheep.' Sometimes animals are astray in this way for a considerable time--it is not
unusual to meet a man the day after a fair wandering through the country, asking after a lost
heifer, or ewe--but they are always well marked and are found in the end.

When I reached the green above the village I found the curious throng one always meets in these
fairs, made up of wild mountain squatters, gentlemen farmers, jobbers and herds. At one corner
of the green there was the usual camp of tinkers, where a swarm of children had been left to
play among the carts while the men and women wandered through the fair selling cans or donkeys.
Many odd types of tramps and beggars had come together also, and were loitering about in the
hope of getting some chance job, or of finding some one who would stand them a drink. Once
or twice a stir was made by some unruly ram or bull, but in these smaller fairs there seldom
is much real excitement till the evening, when the bad whisky that is too freely drunk begins
to be felt.

When I had spoken to one or two men that I wished to see, I sat down near a bridge at the end
of the green, between a tinker who was mending a can and a herd who was minding some sheep
that had not been sold. The herd spoke to me with some pride of his skill in dipping sheep
to keep them from the fly, and other matters connected with his work. 'Let you not be talking,'
said the tinker, when he paused for a moment. 'You've been after sheep since you were that
height' (holding his hand a little over the ground), 'and yet you're nowhere in the world beside
the herds that do be reared beyond on the mountains. Those men are a wonder, for I'm told they
can tell a lamb from their own ewes before it is marked; and that when they have five hundred
sheep on the hills--five hundred is a big number--they don't need to count them or reckon them
at all, but they just walk here and there where they are, and if one is gone away they'll miss
it from the rest.'

Then a woman came up and spoke to the tinker, and they went down the road together into the
village. 'That man is a great villain,' said the herd, when he was out of hearing. 'One time
he and his woman went up to a priest in the hills and asked him would he wed them for half
a sovereign, I think it was. The priest said it was a poor price, but he'd wed them surely
if they'd make him a tin can along with it. "I will, faith," said the tinker, "and I'll come
back when it's done." They went off then, and in three weeks they came back, and they asked
the priest a second time would he wed them. "Have you the tin can?" said the priest. "We have
not," said the tinker; "we had it made at the fall of night, but the ass gave it a kick this
morning the way it isn't fit for you at all." "Go on now," says the priest. "It's a pair of
rogues and schemers you are, and I won't wed you at all." They went off then, and they were
never married to this day.'

As I went up again through the village a great sale of old clothing was going on from booths
at each side of the road, and further on boots were set out for sale on boards laid across
the tops of barrels, a very usual counter. In another place old women were selling quantities
of damaged fruit, kippered herrings, and an extraordinary collection of old ropes and iron.
In front of a public-house a ballad-singer was singing a song in the middle of a crowd of people.
As far as I could hear it, the words ran like this:

  As we came down from Wicklow
  With our bundle of switches
  As we came down from Wicklow,
  Oh! what did we see?
  As we came to the city
  We saw maidens pretty,
  And we called out to ask them to buy our heath-broom.
  Heath-broom, freestone, black turf, gather them up.
  Oh! gradh machree, Mavourneen,
  Won't you buy our heath-broom?
  When the season is over
  Won't we be in clover,
  With the gold in our pockets
  We got from heath-broom.

Before he had finished a tinker arrived, too drunk to stand or walk, but leading a tall horse
with his left hand, and inviting anyone who would deny that he was the best horseman in Wicklow
to fight with him on the spot. Soon afterwards I started on my way home, driving most of the
way with a farmer from the same neighbourhood.

A Landlord's Garden in County Wicklow

A STONE'S throw from an old house where I spent several summers in County Wicklow, there was
a garden that had been left to itself for fifteen or twenty years. Just inside the gate, as
one entered, two paths led up through a couple of strawberry beds, half choked with leaves,
where a few white and narrow strawberries were still hidden away. Further on was nearly half
an acre of tall raspberry canes and thistles five feet high, growing together in a dense mass,
where one could still pick raspberries enough to last a household for the season. Then, in
a waste of hemlock, there were some half-dozen apple trees covered with lichen and moss, and
against the northern walls a few dying plum trees hanging from their nails. Beyond them there
was a dead pear tree, and just inside the gate, as one came back to it, a large fuchsia filled
with empty nests. A few lines of box here and there showed where the flower-beds had been laid
out, and when anyone who had the knowledge looked carefully among them many remnants could
be found of beautiful and rare plants.

All round this garden there was a wall seven or eight feet high, in which one could see three
or four tracks with well-worn holes--like the paths down a cliff in Kerry--where boys and tramps
came over to steal and take away any apples or other fruits that were in season. Above the
wall on the three windy sides there were rows of finely-grown lime trees, the place of meeting
in the summer for ten thousand bees. Under the east wall there was the roof of a green-house,
where one could sit, when it was wet or dry, and watch the birds and butterflies, many of which
were not common. The seasons were always late in this place--it was high above the sea--and
redpoles often used to nest not far off late in the summer; siskins did the same once or twice,
and greenfinches, till the beginning of August, used to cackle endlessly in the lime trees.
Many of the descendants of these people have, of course, drifted into professional life in
Dublin, or have gone abroad; yet, wherever they are, they do not equal their forefathers, and
where men used to collect fine editions of Don Quixote and Moliere, in Spanish and French,
and luxuriantly bound copies of Juvenal and Persius and Cicero, nothing is read now but Longfellow
and Hall Caine and Miss Corelli. Where good and roomy houses were built a hundred years ago,
poor and tawdry houses are built now; and bad bookbinding, bad pictures, and bad decorations
are thought well of, where rich bindings, beautiful miniatures, and finely-carved chimney-pieces
were once prized by the old Irish landlords.

To return to our garden. One year the apple crop was unusually plentiful, and every Sunday
inroads were made upon it by some unknown persons. At last I decided to lie in wait at the
dangerous hour--about twelve o'clock--when the boys of the neighbourhood were on their way
home from Mass, and we were supposed to be busy with our devotions three miles away. A little
before eleven I slipped out, accordingly, with a book, locked the door behind me, put the key
in my pocket, and lay down under a bush. When I had been reading for some time, and had quite
forgotten the thieves, I looked up at some little stir and saw a young man, in his Sunday clothes,
walking up the path towards me. He stopped when he saw me, and for a moment we gazed at each
other with astonishment. At last, to make a move, I said it was a fine day. 'It is indeed,
sir,' he answered with a smile, and then he turned round and ran for his life. I realized that
he was a thief and jumped up and ran after him, seeing, as I did so, a flock of small boys
swarming up the walls of the garden. Meanwhile the young man ran round and round through the
raspberry canes, over the strawberry beds, and in and out among the apple trees. He knew that
if he tried to get over the wall I should catch him, and that there was no other way out, as
I had locked the gate. It was heavy running, and we both began to get weary. Then I caught
my foot in a briar and fell. Immediately the young man rushed to the wall and began scrambling
up it, but just as he was drawing his leg over the top I caught him by the heel. For a moment
he struggled and kicked, then by sheer weight I brought him down at my feet, and an armful
of masonry along with him. I caught him by the neck and tried to ask his name, but found we
were too breathless to speak.

For I do not know how long we sat glaring at each other, and gasping painfully. Then by degrees
I began to upbraid him in a whisper for coming over a person's wall to steal his apples, when
he was such a fine, well-dressed, grownup young man. I could see that he was in mortal dread
that I might have him up in the police courts, which I had no intention of doing, and when
I finally asked him his name and address he invented a long story of how he lived six miles
away, and had come over to this neighbourhood for Mass and to see a friend, and then how he
had got a drought upon him, and thought an apple would put him in spirits for his walk home.
Then he swore he would never come over the wall again if I would let him off, and that he would
pray God to have mercy on me when my last hour was come. I felt sure his whole story was a
tissue of lies, and I did not want him to have the crow of having taken me in. 'There is a
woman belonging to the place,' I said, 'inside in the house helping the girl to cook the dinner.
Walk in now with me, and we'll see if you're such a stranger as you'd have me think.' He looked
infinitely troubled, but I took him by the neck and wrist and we set off for the gate. When
we had gone a pace or two he stopped. 'I beg your pardon,' he said, 'my cap's after falling
down on the over side of the wall. May I cross over and get it?' That was too much for me.
'Well, go on,' I said, 'and if ever I catch you again woe betide you.' I let him go then, and
he rushed madly over the wall and disappeared. A few days later I discovered, not at all to
my surprise, that he lived half a mile away, and was intimately related to a small boy who
came to the house every morning to run messages and clean the boots. Yet it must not be thought
that this young man was dishonest; I would have been quite ready the next day to trust him
with a ten-pound note.

Glencree

THIS morning the air is clear, and there is a trace of summer again. I am sitting in a nook
beside the stream from the Upper Lake, close down among the heather and bracken and rushes.
I have seen the people going up to Mass in the Reformatory, and the valley seems empty of life.

