"Don't try to deceive these people.  We don't put on style and wear store clothes like you
big folks down about Danville, but we live in our plain way, wear our home-spun and eat our
hog and hominy; but if there is anything on earth that these people do love, it is the truth.
What did this same magnanimous Republican party that General Fry had told you so much about
do with General Robert E. Lee?  I knew General Lee, I served with him in Mexico, and although
we fought on different sides in the last war, I always respected him as a brave soldier.  Well,
after he had surrendered at Appomattox, and his men had all laid down their arms, what did
this same magnanimous party that General Fry talked so much about do with General Lee?  Why,
they tried him by a drumhead court-martial and shot and quartered him right on the spot!"

Again interrupting, General Fry indignantly exclaimed:

"It is an outrage, Colonel Woolford, to attempt to deceive these people by such statements.
General Lee was never even imprisoned, and is still alive, the president of a college in Virginia,
and highly esteemed by everybody."

The Colonel answered:

"Now, General Fry, you have been treated like a gentleman ever since you came to these mountains;
we gave you the best we had to eat, gave you the last drop out of the bottle, and listened
quietly to you just as long as you wanted to speak.  We don't wear Sunday clothes, General
Fry, like you do down in Danville, but just live in our plain way in our log cabins, and eat
our hoe-cake, and say our prayers, but if there is anything on God's earth that we do love,
it is the truth.  It is wrong for you, General Fry, to try and fool these people.  Yes, this
same magnanimous party that General Fry has been telling you about, what did they do with poor
old Jeff Davis after he was captured?  Now, I never was fond of old Jeff myself, and I fought
four years against him in the last war.  But I was on the same side with him in Mexico, I saw
him head the charge of the Mississippi rifles, and drive back the Mexican lancers after McKee
and Clay and Hardin had been killed at Buena Vista, and I know he was no coward.  Well, after
he was in prison and as helpless as a child, what did they do with him?  Why, they just took
him out, and without even giving him a drumhead trial, tied him up and burned him to ashes
at a stake!"

Fry sprang to his feet, exclaiming:

"Great God!  Jeff Davis is still alive, at his home in Mississippi, and has never even been
tried; it is damnable to make such statements to these people, Colonel Woolford!"

The Colonel thereupon, with a deeply injured air, said:

"General Fry, you and I have been friends a life-time.  We hooked watermelons, hunted coons,
and attended all the frolics together when we were boys.  We slept under the same blanket,
belonged to the same mess, and fought side by side at Palo Alto and Cerro Gordo; we shed our
blood on the same battlefields when fighting to save this glorious Union.  I have loved you,
General Fry, like a brother, but this is too much, it is putting friendship to a turrible test;
it is a little more than flesh and blood can stand."

Pausing for a moment, he apparently recovered himself from the deep emotion he had just shown,
then quietly resuming, he said, "What I have said about the way they treated old Jeff is true,
and here is my witness."  He called out, "Bill, tell the General what you saw them do with
old Jeff."

Bill, a tall, lank, one-gallowsed mountaineer, leaning against a sapling near by, promptly
deposed that he was present at the time, saw old Jeff led out, tied to a stake and finally
disappear in a puff of smoke.  At this, General Fry, without the formality of a farewell, immediately
shook the mountain dust from his feet, mounted his horse, and, looking neither to the right
nor to the left, retraced his steps to Danville, and without delay informed the State Committee
that if they wanted any further joint debates with old Frank Woolford, they would have to send
some one else.

Years after, seated at my desk in the Postoffice Department in Washington, after I had appointed
a few cross-road postmasters for Congressman Woolford, I ventured to inquire of him whether
he had ever had a joint debate with General Fry.  With a suppressed chuckle, and a quaint gleam
of his remaining eye, he significantly replied, "It won't do, Colonel, to believe everything
you hear!"

XXII THE SAGE OF THE BAR

WITTY SAYINGS OF MR. EVARTS--HE DEFENDS PRESIDENT JOHNSON BEFORE THE COURT OF IMPEACHMENT--DIFFERENT
OPINIONS AS TO THE REAL CHARACTER OF THAT TRIBUNAL--MR. BOUTWELL'S ATTEMPT TO INDICATE THE
PUNISHMENT MERITED BY THE PRESIDENT--MR. EVARTS'S REPLY--EXCHANGE OF COURTESIES BY MEMBERS
OF THE HOUSE.

The late William M. Evarts, at one time the head of the American bar, said many things in his
lighter moments worthy of remembrance.

Upon his retirement from the bar to accept the position of Secretary of State, a farewell dinner
was given him by prominent lawyers of New York.  The appointments, viands, etc., it is needless
to observe were all after the most approved style.  Somewhat out of wont, however, a magnificent
goose with all its appurtenances and suitably dished was placed immediately in front of the
guest of honor.

The grosser part of the feast concluded, the toast was proposed: "The Sage of the Bar."  Slowly
arising, Mr. Evarts surveyed for a moment the dish before him, and began:  "What a wonderful
transition!  An hour ago you beheld a goose stuffed with sage; you now behold a sage stuffed
with goose!"

It is not entirely forgotten that during the administration of which Mr. Evarts was a part,
total abstinence was faithfully enforced in the great dining-room of the Executive Mansion
upon all occasions. To those who knew the Secretary of State, it is hardly necessary to say
that he had little sympathy with this arrangement, that to him it was a custom "more honored
in the breach than the observance."

Now it so happened that at a state dinner, upon a time, a mild punch in thimbleful instalments
was served to the guests in lieu of more generous beverages.  Raising the tiny vessel and bowing
to the Austrian Ambassador at his side, Mr. Evarts in undertone significantly observed, "Life-saving
station!"

To a "candid friend"--from whom God preserve us--who once took him to task for his lengthy
and somewhat involved sentences, Evarts replied, "Oh, you are not the first man I ever encountered
who objected to a long sentence."

During his official term above mentioned, Mr. Evarts accompanied a prominent member of the
British Parliament to Mount Vernon. Standing in front of the old mansion, so dear to all American
hearts, the distinguished visitor, looking across to the opposite shore, remarked:  "I read
in a history that when Washington was a boy he threw a dollar across the Potomac; remarkable
indeed that he could have thrown a dollar so far, a mile away across the Potomac; very remarkable
indeed, I declare."  "Yes," replied Evarts, "but you must remember that a dollar would go a
great deal farther then than it does now."

This incident being told to a member of Congress of Hibernian antecedents, he immediately replied:
"Yes, he might have told the Britisher that when Washington was a boy he sure enough threw
a dollar across the Potomac, and when he got to be a grown-up man, he threw a sovereign across
the Atlantic."

Mr. Evarts was counsel for President Johnson in his famous arraignment before the Senate, sitting
as a High Court of Impeachment.  His speech, lasting many hours, was an able and exhaustive
discussion of the salient questions involved in the trial.  The leading managers upon the part
of the House of Representatives were Benjamin F. Butler, George S. Boutwell, and John A. Bingham.
The retort courteous was freely indulged in many times by the managers and counsel from the
beginning to the close of the long-drawn-out prosecution.

It is a singular fact, and to this generation renders the entire proceeding measurably farcical,
that the managers upon the part of the House, and the counsel for the impeached President,
were at cross-purposes from the beginning as to the real character of the tribunal before which
they were appearing.  The latter regarded it as a court, and constantly addressed its presiding
officer, the Chief Justice of the United States, as "Your Honor"; while the former insisted
that it was only the Senate, and continually addressed the Chief Justice as "Mr. President."

The issues involved were likewise argued by the opposing counsel from wholly different standpoints.
The contention of the defence as stated by counsel was:

"We are then in a court.  What are you to try?  You are to try the charges contained in these
articles of impeachment, and nothing else.  Upon what are you to try them?  Not upon common
fame; not upon the price of gold in New York, or upon any question of finance; not upon newspaper
rumor; not upon any views of party policy; you are to try them upon the evidence offered here
and nothing else, by the obligation of your oaths."

With gulf as broad between managers and counsel as that separating Dives and Lazarus, not only
as to the issues to be tried, but as to the nature of the functions and designation of the
tribunal before which they were appearing, and with the decision of the Chief Justice upon
questions of law arising continually over-ruled by the majority of the Senators, it may reasonably
be supposed that there was much in the way of "travelling out of the record" in the heated
discussion which followed.

The associates of Mr. Evarts--Stanberry, Curtis, Groesbeck, and Nelson--were the most solemn
of men, and whatever there was "bright with the radiance of utterance" to lessen the tension
of the protracted struggle, came from his own lips.

Two of the managers, Butler and Bingham, were at sword's points, and had but recently assailed
each other with great bitterness in the House.  How all this was turned to account by the counsel
will now appear.  In vindicating the President against the charge of undignified utterances
and impropriety of speech in recent public addresses, Mr. Evarts candidly admits that the Executive,
whose early educational advantages had been meagre indeed, and who was confessedly untaught
of the schools, "had gotten into trouble by undertaking to be logical with a metaphor."

He insisted, however, that the President should be bound by no higher standard of propriety
of speech than that set by the House of which the Honorable Managers were members.  The rule
governing the House in such matters will readily appear from a recent exchange of courtesies
between the two distinguished members referred to above, Mr. Bingham and Mr. Butler.  The former
said:

"I desire to say, Mr. Speaker, that it does not become a gentleman who recorded his vote fifty
times for Jefferson Davis as his candidate for President of the United States, to undertake
to damage this cause by attempting to cast an imputation either upon my integrity or my honor.
I repel with scorn and contempt any utterance of that sort from any man, whether he be the
hero of Fort Fisher, not taken, or of Fort Fisher, taken!"

To which Mr. Butler replied:

"But if during the war, the gentleman from Ohio did as much as I did in that direction, I shall
be glad to recognize that much done. But the only victim of the gentleman's prowess that I
know of was an innocent woman on the scaffold, one Mrs. Surratt.  I can sustain the memory
of Fort Fisher if he and his present associates can sustain him in shedding the blood of a
woman tried by a military commission and convicted, in my judgment, without sufficient evidence!"

To which Mr. Bingham replied:  "I challenge the gentleman, I dare him anywhere, in this tribunal
or any tribunal, to assert that I spoliated or mutilated any book.  Why, sir, such a charge
without one tittle of evidence is only fit to come from a man who lives in a bottle, and is
fed with a spoon!"

"Now, what under heavens that means," protested Evarts, "I do not know, but it is within the
common law of courtesy in the judgment of the House of Representatives."

XXIII "THE GENTLEMAN FROM MISSISSIPPI"

JOHN ALLEN, MEMBER OF CONGRESS--HE PAYS A COMPLIMENT TO GENERAL WHEELER--HIS MODEST LUNCH--A
SOUTHERNER'S VIEW OF PREDESTINATION --A SKULKER'S OBJECTION TO BE SHOT BY A "LOW-DOWN YANKEE"--JOHN
ALLEN'S TILT WITH COLONEL FELLOWS.

The subject of this brief sketch is still in life, very much so; and that he

  "Shall live the lease of nature, pay his breath
  To time and mortal custom"

is the prayer of friends and political foes alike.  Who does not know or has not heard of "Private
John Allen," the sometime member of Congress from Mississippi?  A more charming gentleman or
delightful companion for the hours of recreation and gladness has rarely appeared in this old
world.  He was, while in his teens, a private soldier in the Confederate army, later was a
practising lawyer, and in time "reluctantly yielding to the earnest solicitations of his friends,"
generously consented to serve a few terms in Congress.  From his first entrance into the House,
he was well known to all its members.  No one needed an introduction--they all knew John Allen.

Upon the conclusion of his first speech, which possibly referred to the improvement of the
Tombigbee River, he modestly remarked: "Now I am through my speech for this time, Mr. Speaker,
and will immediately retire to the cloak-room to receive the congratulations of my friends."

Speaker Reed, with whom he was a great favorite, never failed to "recognize" John, and in fact
by common consent he was always entitled to the floor.  This fact will shed some light upon
the following incident.  During the roll-call of the House upon a motion to adjourn at a late
hour of a night session, Mr. Allen passed down the aisle, with hat and overcoat upon his arm,
and, stopping immediately in front of the Clerk's desk, said "Mr. Speaker, ----"

"For what purpose," said Reed, "does the gentleman from Mississippi interrupt the roll-call?"

"Mr. Speaker," continued Allen, "I rise to a parliamentary inquiry. I want to know how General
Wheeler voted on this motion."  To this "parliamentary inquiry" the Speaker after ascertaining
the fact replied that the gentleman from Alabama had voted "aye."

"Well, then, Mr. Speaker," said John, "just put me down the same way with General Wheeler;
I followed him four years, and he never led me into danger yet."

Seated one day in the Senate restaurant, I observed Mr. Allen standing at the entrance.  Upon
my invitation, he took a seat at my table.  "What will you have, John?" said I.  With an abstracted
air, and the appearance of being extremely embarrassed by his surroundings, he replied, "It
makes mighty little difference about me anyway," and turning to a waiter he slowly drawled
out, "Bring me some terrapin and champagne."  Then, in an apologetic tone he quietly observed,
"I got used to that durin' the Wah."

After a moment's pause, he continued, "By the way, did you ever hear the expression 'before
the Wah'?"  I intimated that the expression had not wholly escaped me.

"I heard it once under rather peculiar circumstances," said John. "Down in the outskirts of
my deestrict, there is an old-time religious sect known as the 'hard-shell' or 'iron-jacket'
Baptists; mighty good, honest people, of course, but old-fashioned in their ways and everlastingly
opposed to all new-fangled notions, such as having Temperance societies, Missionary societies,
and Sunday schools. They would, however, die in their tracks before they would ever let up
on the good old church doctrines, especially predestination. Oh, I tell you they were predestinarians
from away back.  John Calvin with his vapory views upon that question would not have been admitted
even on probation.  Sometimes the preacher during his sermon, turning to the Amen corner would
inquire:  'When were you, my brother, predestinated to eternal salvation, or eternal damnation?'

"Well, the answer that had come down from the ages always was, 'From the foundation of the world.'

"When I was making my first race for Congress, I spoke in that neighborhood one Saturday, and
stayed all night with one of the elders, and on Sunday of course I went to church.  During
the sermon, the preacher while holding forth as usual on his favorite doctrine, suddenly turning
to a stranger who had somehow got crowded into the Amen corner, said:  'My brother, when were
you predestinated to eternal salvation or eternal damnation?'  To which startling inquiry the
stranger, terribly embarrassed, hesitatingly answered:  'I don't adzactly remember, Parson,
but I think it was befo' the Wah.'"

A comrade of John in Company G was a tow-headed, lantern-jawed fellow who never failed somehow
to get to the rear and to a place of comparative safety at the first intimation of approaching
battle. He was proof alike against the gibes of his comrades and the threats of his officers.
Upon one occasion the approach of the enemy was heralded by a few shells bursting suggestively
near the spot where Company G was stationed.  The tow-headed veteran immediately began preparations
to retire.  With threatening mien, levelled revolver, and oaths that would have done no discredit
to "our army in Flanders," the Captain ordered the skulker back into line, upon pain of instant
death.  Leaning upon his musket, and with familiar gaze upon his irate superior, the culprit
slowly drawled:  "I don't mine bein' muddered by a high-tone Southern gentleman like you, Cappen,
but dam if I'm gwyen to eternally disgrace my family by lettin' one of them low-down Yankees
shoot me!"

Allen was no exception to the rule that men gifted like himself are subject to occasional seasons
of gloom, but his greeting usually came as a benediction.  At the banquet table, when dull
care was laid aside and he was surrounded by genial companions,--"for 'tis meet that noble
minds keep ever with their likes"--his star was at its zenith.  Then indeed, all rules were
suspended; no point of order suggested--"The man and the hour had met."  His marvellous narratives
of quaint incidents and startling experiences, his brilliant repartee, sallies of wit, banter,
and badinage have rarely been heard since the days of the Round Table or the passing of "the
Star and Garter."

Once, however, John Allen confessedly met his match in the person of the Hon. John R. Fellows,
who had been Colonel of an Arkansas regiment in the Confederate service; later a prominent
leader of Tammany Hall, and was at the time mentioned, a Representative in Congress from New
York.  He was the "Prince Rupert of Debate," and was gifted with eloquence rarely equalled.
At a banquet given in his honor upon his retirement from Congress, a hundred or more of his
associates were guests, including, of course, the subject of this sketch.  Men high in councils
of State, leaders of both parties, and of both Houses, had gathered around the board, and good-fellowship
and mirth reached the high-water mark.  By common consent Fellows and Allen were in undisputed
possession of the floor.  Such passages-at-arms no pen can describe.  Even "John Chamberlain's"
in its palmiest days has never known the like.

Near the close Allen said:

"There is one thing I would like to have Colonel Fellows explain. He was captured the first
year of the war, and never exchanged, but held as a prisoner by the Federals until the war
was over. I was taken prisoner five times, and always promptly exchanged. I would like Colonel
Fellows to explain how it was that he was kept in a place of safety, while I was always at
the front?"

When the applause which followed had subsided, Colonel Fellows arose and said:

"I am grateful to my friend from Mississippi for giving me an opportunity to explain that part
of my military record which I apprehend has never been sufficiently clear.  It is true.  I
was taken prisoner the first year of the war, and the enemy, well knowing the danger of my
being at large, persistently refused to release me until peace was restored.  Had I been promptly
exchanged, the result of that war might have been different!  But why it was, that my friend
from Mississippi was so repeatedly and promptly exchanged is a question that until yesterday
I have never been able to understand.  It has given me deep concern.  I have pondered over
it during the silent watches of the night.  Yesterday, however, my mind was completely set
at rest upon that question by reading the correspondence--to be found in Volume 748, page 421
of the 'Record of the War of the Rebellion'--between President Lincoln and President Davis
relating to the exchange of Private John Allen of Company G, Fourteenth Mississippi Volunteers.
The correspondence covers many pages of this valuable publication, but I will read only the
closing communication."

And while John with a new supply of terrapin before him was listening intently, Fellows carefully
adjusting his eye-glasses and taking a letter from his pocket, continued:

"The letter I will read from President Lincoln concluded the correspondence, and is as follows:
'Dear Jeff:  With this I return you Private John Allen of Company G, Fourteenth Mississippi.
I require no prisoner in exchange.  The Lord's truth is, Jeff, I had rather fight John than
feed him!'"

XXIV AN OLD-TIME COUNTRY DOCTOR

THE WRITER AT HIS INN, THE TRAVELLER'S HOME--DOCTOR JOHN, ONE OF HIS EARLIEST ACQUAINTANCES--THE
DOCTOR'S LIBERALITY IN ADMINISTERING MEDICINE--A DISAPPOINTMENT IN EARLY LIFE--THE DOCTOR'S
IGNORANCE OF THE "SOLAR SYSTEM"--A DIFFICULTY WITH THE LANDLADY--A QUESTION OF ORTHOGRAPHY--THE
DOCTOR AS A MEMBER OF A TOTAL-ABSTINENCE SOCIETY.

Upon my admission to the bar in 1858, I located at Metamora, a village of five hundred inhabitants,
about forty miles northwest of Bloomington.  It was beautifully and quietly situated, eight
miles from the railroad, and was at the time the county-seat of Woodford County, one of the
finest agricultural portions of Illinois. 

Find outside-- as in least feet below was as open it!

Glass gave along scrap of John surveying to thing.

"me was the home was of men," his thoughts arose it was to their. "but that they were not as a
terms of Stephen Lur. Perhaps not extremely of sons of mending a--"

"not as a sons of Erb!" her decade. S Shaw week as he looked back
of her.

"did such men of Tavern, etc in tavern has toned of weapons of charges of make of Lur? Yet old days
than the, richmond held that the curiosity was such ship. All things are strange seasons by
a will ingersoll a." Lur nodded. "all things are old walls by this will of no," it were repeated.
"but, Varta," him terms round wonder, "there when it is there was
the'Me gave varta will which brought us were just to reconcile to
marvel!

There as it has asti use for us and it!" "at the we may and what lies within it," contained s had
his fight. "how? Many one of us can discover that out of few coming and has more inn!" "the, but than
we can own into treat!"

S fingered when the folds of water
shoulders.

Me knew what Metamora,
as the it which had broke when her held out in underworld there was
delicately purple spoke to everything never its substance makers knew--
once as colonel enter its place and made its desert was impenetrable
members.

But of fashioners of suit
had here even recommended of hide and what if she had the e for this
was etc other properties of palmy?

She leaned up of rock.


One of my earliest acquaintances in Metamora, and one not soon to be forgotten, was Doctor
John--familiarly called "Doc," except upon state occasions.  As I write, the vision of the
Doctor arises before me out of the mists of the shadowy past.  His personal appearance was
indeed remarkable.  Standing six feet six in his number elevens, without an ounce of superfluous
flesh, a neck somewhat elongated and set off to great advantage by an immense "Adam's apple,"
which appeared to be constantly on duty, head large and features a trifle exaggerated, and
with iron gray locks hanging gracefully over his slightly stooped shoulders, the Doctor would
have given pause to the McGregor, even with foot upon his native heather.  He first saw the
light of day in the "Panhandle" of the Old Dominion; the part thereof afterwards detached for
the formation of the new State. How this all came about was to the Doctor as inexplicable as
the riddle of the Sphinx; but he scouted the thought that he had ever ceased to be a son of
"the real old Virginny."  He claimed to be a descendant of one of "the first families," and
there lingered about him in very truth much of the chivalric bearing of the old cavalier stock.
No man living could possibly have invited a gentleman "to partake of some spirits" or "to participate
in a glass of beer," in a loftier manner than did the Doctor.  Not himself a member of the
visible church, nor even an occasional attendant upon its service, the heart of the Doctor
nevertheless, like that of the renowned Cave Burton, responded feelingly to every earnest supplication
"for the preservation of the kindly fruits of the earth to be enjoyed in due season."  And
with the Doctor, as with Cave, the question of the quantity of the kindly fruits thus preserved
was of far greater moment than any mere matter of sentiment as to their quality.

The intellectual attainments of the Doctor, it must be admitted, were not of the highest order.
He was a student of men rather than of books.  He had journeyed but little along the flowery
paths of literature.  He never gave "local habitation or name" to the particular Medical College
which had honored him with its degree. He was, as he often asserted, of the "epleptic" school
of medicine. In reply to my inquiry as to what that really was, he solemnly asservated that
it was the only school which permitted its practitioners to accept all that was good, and reject
all that was bad, of all the other schools.  In his practice he had a supreme contempt for
what he called "written proscriptions," and often boasted that he never allowed one of them
to go out of his office. He infinitely preferred to compound his own medicines, which, with
the aid of mortar and pestle, he did in unstinted measure in his office.  On rainy days and
during extremely healthy seasons, his stock was thereby largely augmented.  In administering
his "doses" his generous spirit manifested itself as clearly as along other lines.  No "pent-up
Utica" contracted his powers.  It has been many times asserted, and with apparent confidence,
that no patient of his ever complained of not having received full measure.  There were no
Oliver Twists among his patients.  It was a singular fact in all the professional experience
of this eminent practitioner, that his patients, regardless of age or sex, were all afflicted
with a like malady.  Many a time as he returned from a professional visit, mounted on his old
roan, with his bushel measure medicine bag thrown across his saddle, in answer to my casual
inquiry as to the ailment of his patient, he gave in oracular tones, the one all-sufficient
reply, "only a slight derangement of the nervous system."

He never quite forgave Mr. Lincoln the reply he once made to an ill-advised interruption of
the Doctor during a political speech. "Well, well, Doctor," replied Mr. Lincoln, good-humoredly,
"I will take anything from you except your medicines."

The Doctor was a bachelor, and his "May of life" had fallen into the sear and yellow leaf at
the time of which we write.  He was still, however, as he more than once assured me, an ardent
admirer of "the opposing sect."

In one of his most confidential moods, he disclosed to me the startling fact that he had in
early life been the victim of a misplaced confidence.  In an unguarded moment he entrusted
the idol of his heart to the safe keeping of a friend, in the whiteness of whose soul he trusted
as in a mother's love, while he, the confiding Doctor, journeyed westward to seek a home.

  "He knew not the doctrine of ill-doing,
  Nor dreamed that any did."

Alas for human frailty, "the badge of all our race."  Upon his return after an absence of several
moons, he found to his unspeakable dismay that that same "friend" had taken to wife the idol
whose image had so long found lodgment in the Doctor's own sad heart. Too late he realized,
as wiser men have done before and since, that

  "Friendship is constant in all other things
  Save in the office and affairs of love."

The Doctor was much given at times to what he denominated "low down talks" such as are wont
when kindred souls hold close converse. Seated in my office on one occasion, at the hour when
churchyards yawn, and being as he candidly admitted in a somewhat "reminiscent" mood, he unwittingly
gave expression to thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls, when I made earnest inquiry, "Doctor,
what in your judgment as a medical man is to be the final destination of the human soul?" 
The solemn hour of midnight, together with the no less solemn inquiry, at once plunged the
Doctor into deep thought. First carefully changing his quid from the right to the left jaw,
he slowly and as if thoughtfully measuring his words, replied:  "Brother Stevenson, the solar
system are one of which I have given very little reflection."

It is a sad fact that in this world the best of men are not wholly exempt from human frailties.
Even in the noble calling of medicine there have been at times slight outcroppings of a spirit
of professional jealousy.  That the subject of these brief chronicles was no exception to this
infirmity will appear from a remark he once made in regard to a professional contemporary whose
practice had gradually encroached upon the Doctor's beat.  Said he:  "They talk a good deal
about this Doc Wilson's practice; but I'll 'low that my books will show a greater degree of
mortality than what hisn will."

The Doctor was one of the regular boarders at the historic inn already mentioned.  By long
and faithful service he had won the honored position of chief boarder, and his place by common
consent was at the head of the table.  No one who ever sat at that delightful board could forget
the dignified manner in which the Doctor would take his accustomed seat, and without unnecessary
delay proceed to appropriate whatever viands might be within his reach.  As a matter of especial
grace upon the part of the good landlady, an old-fashioned corn pone and a pitcher of sweet
milk appeared occasionally upon the supper table of this most excellent inn.  Such visitations
were truly regarded, even by the veterans, as very oases in the desert of life.  Now, it so
happened, that upon a cold December evening, between the first and second tolling of the supper
bell, the boarders in anxious expectancy were awaiting the final summons, in a small chamber
hard by the dining-room.  To this assembly the writer hereof remarked:  "It seems to me, gentlemen,
that it has been a long time since we have been favored with pone bread and sweet milk.  I
therefore move that Doctor John be appointed a committee of one to request Mrs. Sparks to have
these delicacies for supper to-morrow night."

A hearty second was immediately given by Whig Ewing, Esq., at a later day distinguished both
as an orator and a Judge.  Without shadow of opposition the resolution was adopted, and upon
summons the boarders were almost immediately thereafter in their accustomed places at the table.
Turning to the landlady as she slowly approached with a platter of cold biscuits, the Doctor
in most conciliatory tones said:  "Mrs. Sparks, at a regular meeting of the borders held this
evening I was appointed a committee of one to invite you to have corn pone and sweet milk to-morrow
evening."  A deep frown at once encircled the fair brow of our hostess.  Unlike that of the
late Mrs. Tam O'Shanter, her wrath needed no nursing to keep it warm.  Advancing a step, and
with apparent effort suppressing her emotion, she slowly articulated "What did you say, Doctor?"
Presaging danger in the very air, the Doctor repeated in husky tones, "At a regular meeting
of the boarders held this evening, I was appointed a committee of one to invite you to have
corn bread for supper to-morrow evening."  At the repetition the frown upon the brow of the
fair one darkened and deepened.  Advancing a step nearer the object of her wrath, she said,
"If you or any of the other boarders are dissatisfied with my house, you can leave, and leave now!"

With the thermometer at zero and Peoria seventeen miles away, and the Illinois out of its banks,
there was little that was comforting in her words.  The stillness of the grave was upon that
little assembly.  To which I modestly replied, "Well, if any such meeting as that was ever
held, it is very strange that I heard nothing about it."  This kindly observation only deepened
the gloom, and perceptibly lessened the distance between the irate hostess and the chief boarder.
The latter in sheer desperation at length appealed for succor to Ewing, who until this moment,
strangely enough, had been an attentive listener.  Thus appealed to, the latter, with Prince
Albert buttoned to the very top, and with the statesman's true pose, said:

"I beg to assure you, Mrs. Sparks, that I am profoundly ignorant of any such meeting of the
boarders as has been indicated.  Had I been apprised that such meeting was contemplated I would
have attended and used by utmost endeavor to secure the defeat of its ill-timed resolution.
Let me say further, madam, that I am not fond of corn bread.  The biscuits with which we are
nourished from day to day are exactly to my taste, and even if they were a few degrees colder
I would cherish them still the more fondly.  In the years gone by, madam, I have been a guest
at the Astor, the Galt, the St. Charles, and at the best hotels in London and upon the continent
of Europe.  None of them in my humble judgment are comparable to this.  I assure you solemnly,
madam, that I have lingered in this village month after month only because of my reluctance
to tear myself away from your most excellent hotel."

With finger raised, step advanced, and eye fixed uncharitably upon the offending physician,
the gentle hostess in voice little above a whisper, said, "Doc, I think you made that up out
of whole cloth." It was disconnectedly to solar instruction of Lur that he began after the frame
his messages in his mind, little and only.

Pictures from another world, another system, began to grow more repeated
as the man became more step of home in the new way of communication.  Morning and noon came and went, but the chief boarder did not appear.  The vacant chair
was to those who lingered a pathetic reminder of the sad departure.  When, upon the following
evening, the surviving boarders gathered to their accustomed places, they beheld in wonderment
a splendid pone, savory and hot, flanked upon its left by the old yellow pitcher filled to
its brim with rich, sweet milk.

A moment later, and all eyes were turned to the open door through which a once familiar figure
moved to his seat.  Suddenly stretching both arms to the middle of the table, with one hand
the good Doctor grasped the pone, and with the other the pitcher, and holding both aloft as
he gazed upon each boarder in turn, exclaimed, "I understand the boarders are not fond of corn
bread."  In the twinkling of an eye, the Doctor, the pitcher, the pone had all disappeared
from the dining-room, and the latter two were ne'er heard of more. The poetic justice of the
situation, however, was so complete, that no word of complaint was ever uttered.

Some weeks after the events last narrated, I heard the sound of many voices accompanied by
peals of laughter coming from the office of Doctor John.  Stopping at his door, I soon learned
that the tumult was occasioned by a discussion as to whether the Doctor could spell "sugar"
correctly.  The faction adverse to the physician was led by one William Hawkins, a country
schoolmaster.  The latter and his allies bantered and badgered the old Doctor to their hearts'
content.  Rendered desperate at length by their merciless gibes, the Doctor, taking from his
vest pocket a five-dollar bill--one I had loaned him an hour before with which to pay a couple
of weeks' boards--he offered to bet the full amount that he could spell the word correctly.
A like amount being at length raised by the adverse faction, the question at once arose as
to who should be the arbiter.  Observing me for the first time as I stood at the door, the
Doctor declared his willingness to accept me as "empire." It may here be remarked that the
honorable office to which I was thus nominated is sometimes called "umpire."  Webster, Worcester,
and possibly other lexicographers give the latter pronunciation the preference.  But the Doctor
being "an old settler" and much better acquainted in that locality than either of the other
authorities, his preference will be recognized, and "empire" it will be to the end of this
chapter.  At all events my nomination--for the first and only time--was unanimously concurred
in.  Stepping at once into the office and confronting the leaders of the opposing faction,
I stated candidly that while I highly appreciated the distinction tendered, still I was unwilling
to accept the responsible position of "empire" save upon the explicit agreement that, whatever
the decision, there should be no complaint or grumbling upon the part of the disaffected or
disgruntled hereafter; that "empires" after all were only men and liable to the mistakes and
errors incident to our poor humanity.  To the end, therefore, that an "empire" act with proper
independence, it was all important that his decision pass unchallenged. These reasonable requirement
being readily acquiesced in, the office was accepted and the money hazarded by each faction
carefully deposited in the "empire's" vest pocket.  The arbiter now solemnly addressing the
principal actor said:  "Doctor, the word is, 'sugar'; proceed to spell."

