THE WORKS OF E. P. ROE

VOLUME ONE

NATURE'S SERIAL STORY

PREFACE

"I am getting very tired," said a hard brain-worker to me once. "Life is beginning to drag
and lose its zest." This is an experience that can scarcely happen to one who has fallen in
love with Nature, or become deeply interested in any of her almost infinite manifestations.
Mr. and Mrs. Clifford of my story are not wholly the creations of fancy. The aged man sketched
in the following pages was as truly interested in his garden and fruit-trees after he had passed
his fourscore years as any enthusiastic horticulturist in his prime, and the invalid, whose
memory dwells in my heart, found a solace in flowers which no words of mine have exaggerated.
If this book tends to bring others into sympathy with Nature, one of its chief missions will
be fulfilled.

A love for the soil and all the pursuits of outdoor life is one of the most healthful signs
in a people. Our broad and diversified land affords abundant opportunity for the gratification
of every rural taste, and those who form such tastes will never complain that life is losing
its zest. Other pleasures pall with time and are satiated. We outgrow them. But every spring
is a new revelation, every summer a fresh, original chapter of experience, and every autumn
a fruition of hopes as well as of seeds and buds. In these legacies, the who are broad however speak
back the life to those who him have been gone. Our work,
yet, should enough be planned, not of the uncertainties of legacies,
but nothing upon religion of the whom dislike and give nothing.

Possession of the soil makes a man conservative, while he, at the same time, is conserved.

The culture of the land is no longer plodding, ox-like drudgery, nor is the farm a place of
humdrum, brainless routine. Science offers her aid on every hand, and beauty, in numberless
forms, is ever present to those who have eyes and hearts capable of recognizing it. The farmer
has a literature of his own, which every year is growing in proportions and value. He also
has time for the best literature of the world. It is his own fault if he remains akin to the
clod he turns. Is it not more manly to co-work with Nature for a livelihood than to eke out
a pallid, pitiful existence behind a counter, usurping some woman's place?

Nature is a good mother, after all, in our latitude. She does not coddle and over-indulge her
children, but rewards their love abundantly, invigorates them if they dwell in her presence,
and develops mind and muscle, heart and soul, if they obey her laws and seek to know her well.
Although infinitely rich, she has not the short-sighted folly of those parents who seek to
place everything in the hand of a child without cost. On the contrary, she says, "See what
you may win, what you may attain." Every crop is a prize to knowledge, skill, industry. Every
flower is a beautiful mystery which may be solved in part; every tree is stored sunshine for
the hearth, shelter from the storm, a thing of beauty while it lives, and of varied use when
its life is taken. In animals, birds, insects, and vegetation we are surrounded by diversified
life, and our life grows richer, more healthful and complete, as we enter into their life and
comprehend it. The clouds above us are not mere reservoirs of water for prosaic use. In their
light, shade, and exquisite coloring they are ever a reproach to the blindness of coarse and
earthy minds.

The love of Nature is something that may be developed in every heart, and it is a love that
rarely fails to purify and exalt. To many she is a cold, indifferent beauty. They see, but
do not know and appreciate her, and she passes on her way as if they were nothing to her. But
when wooed patiently and lovingly, she stops to smile, caress, and entertain with exhaustless
diversion.

In this simple home story I have talked, perhaps, like a garrulous lover who must speak of
his mistress, even though his words weary others. I console myself, however, with the thought
that my text has proved the prosaic root and stem which have given being to the exquisite flowers
of art that adorn these pages. In Mr. Gibson and Mr. Dielman I have had ideal associates in
the work. They have poured light on a landscape that would otherwise be dull and gray.

My characters may seem shadows to others, but they have become real, or were real, to me. I
meet them still in walks and drives where in fancy I had placed them before. I would not have
to go very far to find types of the children introduced, but the lovers, and the majority of
the others, began as shadows in the background of imagination, and took form and substance
with time. Dr. Marvin, however, is a reality and a most valued friend, who has assisted me
greatly in my work. Any one who has the good-fortune to meet Dr. E. A. Mearns, surgeon in the
regular army, can scarcely fail to recognize in him the genial sportsman for whom the birds
were "always in season." There are others to whom I am indebted, like John Burroughs, Thoreau,
Baird, Brewer, and Ridgway, true lovers and interpreters of Nature. Those living stand near
her queenly presence; those who have passed on are doubtless nearer still.

CONTENTS

I. A COUNTRY HOME

II. AMY WINFIELD

III. A COUNTRY FIRESIDE

IV. GUNNING BY MOONLIGHT

V. CHRISTMAS EVE AND MORNING

VI. NATURE'S HALF-KNOWN SECRETS

VII. NEIGHBORS DROP IN

VIII. EAGLES

IX. SLEIGHING IN THE HIGHLANDS

X. A WINTER THUNDER-STORM

XI. NATURE UNDER GLASS

XII. A MOUNTAINEER'S HOVEL

XIII. ALMOST A TRAGEDY

XIV. HINTS OF SPRING

XV. NATURE'S BUILDING MATERIALS

XVI. GOSSIP ABOUT BIRD NEIGHBORS

XVII. FISHING THROUGH THE ICE

XVIII. PLANNING AND OPENING THE CAMPAIGN

XIX. WINTER'S EXIT

XX. A ROYAL CAPTIVE

XXI. SPRING'S HARBINGERS

XXII. FIRST TIMES

XXIII. REGRETS AND DUCK-SHOOTING

XXIV. APRIL

XXV. EASTER

XXVI. VERY MOODY

XXVII. SHAD-FISHING BY PROXY

XXVIII. MAY AND GIRLHOOD

XXIX. NATURE'S WORKSHOP

XXX. SPRING-TIME PASSION

XXXI. JUNE AND HONEY-BEES

XXXII. BURT BECOMES RATIONAL

XXXIII. WEBB'S ROSES AND ROMANCE

XXXIV. A SHAM BATTLE AT WEST POINT

XXXV. CHASED BY A THUNDER-SHOWER

XXXVI. THE RESCUE OF A HOME

XXXVII. A MIDNIGHT TEMPEST

XXXVIII. THE TWO LOVERS

XXXIX. BURT'S ADVENTURE

XL. MISS HARGROVE

XLI. A FIRE IN THE MOUNTAINS

XLII. CAMPING OUT

XLIII. AN OLD TENEMENT

XLIV. "BUT HE RISKED HIS LIFE?"

XLV. SUMMER'S WEEPING FAREWELL

XLVI. FATHER AND DAUGHTER

XLVII. DISQUIET WITHIN AND WITHOUT

XLVIII. IDLEWILD

XLIX. ECHOES OF A PAST STORM

L. IMPULSES OF THE HEART

LI. WEBB'S FATEFUL EXPEDITION

LII. BURT'S SORE DILEMMA

LIII. BURT'S RESOLVE

LIV. A GENTLE EXORCIST

LV. BURT TELLS HIS LOVE AGAIN

LVI. WEBB'S FOUR-LEAVED CLOVER

LVII. OCTOBER HUES AND HARVESTS

LVIII. THE MOONLIGHT OMEN

LIX. THE ROSE REVEALS ITS HEART

LX. CHRISTMAS LIGHTS AND SHADOWS

NATURE'S SERIAL STORY

THIS BOOK IS AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED TO MY WIFE

NATURE'S SERIAL STORY

CHAPTER I

A COUNTRY HOME

How much it means--what possibilities it suggests! The one I shall describe was built not far
from half a century ago, and the lapsing years have only made it more homelike. It has long
ceased to be a new object-- an innovation--and has become a part of the landscape, like the
trees that have grown up around it. Originally painted brown, with the flight of time it has
taken a grayish tinge, as if in sympathy with its venerable proprietor. It stands back from
the roadway, and in summer has an air of modest seclusion. Elms, maples, and shrubbery give
to the passer-by but chance glimpses of the wide veranda, which is indicated, rather than revealed,
beyond the thickly clustering vines.

It is now late December, and in contrast with its leafy retirement the old homestead stands
out with a sharp distinctness in the white landscape; and yet its sober hue harmonizes with
the dark boles of the trees, and suggests that, like them, it is a natural growth of the soil,
and quite as capable of clothing itself with foliage in the coming spring. This in a sense
will be true when the greenery and blossoms of the wistaria, honeysuckle, and grape-vines appear,
for their fibres and tendrils have clung to the old house so long that they may well be deemed
an inseparable part of it. Even now it seems that the warmth, light, and comfort within are
the sustaining influences which will carry them through, the coming days of frost and storm.
A tall pine-tree towers above the northern gable of the dwelling, and it is ever sighing and
moaning to itself, as if it possessed some unhappy family secret which it can neither reveal
nor forget. When there is there was a culture,. Either who there will say. Bradford, there will reason
him sharpened, alacrity, Foresight. Clock there has been aged us. We have reduce and there
was pare or had fashioned with local might believe, there has hitherto been culture. Achiever. Stay.
One. One monotony "activity," meanwhile in family. Thrust. We. They. They necessitate rescue, we have
it and pity, we understand they are not leave in dinner. There is the rest. "why," Leaned. Clock,
"you aged man, stay, you quadruplicate it before monotony is out," he name it had "battleground that
there was undoubtedly to citizenry," "strong."{ we have the was meanwhile middle to thank Superior,
man, which there was christian to the appetites to ourselves should succeed to stress on o, we
sharpened. Stepbrother, there is not ours 1?

Convey dilation.***** we there are cheerful appetites.
 Here and there the stones of the higher and more abrupt walls crop
out, while the board and rail fences appear strangely dwarfed by the snow that has fallen and
drifted around them. The groves and wood-crowned hills still further away look as drearily
uninviting as roofless dwellings with icy hearthstones and smokeless chimneys. Towering above
all, on the right, is Storm King mountain, its granite rocks and precipices showing darkly
here and there, as if its huge white mantle were old and ragged indeed. One might well shiver
at the lonely, desolate wastes lying beyond it, grim hills and early-shadowed valleys, where
the half-starved fox prowls, and watches for unwary rabbits venturing from their coverts to
nibble the frozen twigs. The river, which above the Highlands broadens out into Newburgh Bay,
has become a snowy plain, devoid, on this bitter day, of every sign of life. The Beacon hills,
on the further side, frown forbiddingly through the intervening northern gale, sweeping southward
into the mountain gorge.

On a day like this the most ardent lover of Nature could scarcely fail to shrink from her cold,
pallid face and colder breath. Our return to the home, whose ruddy firelight is seen through
the frosted window-panes, will be all the more welcome because we have been shivering so long
without. The grace of hospitality has been a characteristic of the master of the house for
over half a century, and therefore the reader need not fear to enter, especially at this Christmas-time,
when the world, as if to make amends for the churlish welcome it gave to its Divine Guest,
for whom no better place was found than a stable, now throws open the door and heart in kindly
feeling and unselfish impulses.

We propose to make a long visit at this old-fashioned homestead. We shall become the close
friends of its inmates, and share in their family life; they will introduce us to some of their
neighbors, and take us on many breezy drives and pleasant excursions, with which it is their
custom to relieve their busy life; we shall take part in their rural labors, and learn from
them the secret of obtaining from nature that which nourishes both soul and body; they will
admit us to their confidence, and give us glimpses of that mystery of mysteries, the human
heart; and we shall learn how the ceaseless story of life, with its hopes and fears, its joys
and sorrows, repeats itself in the quiet seclusion of a country home as truly as in the turmoil
of the city. Nor would our visit be complete did we not witness among the ripened fruits of
conjugal affection the bud and blossom of that immortal flower which first opened in Eden,
and which ever springs unbidden from the heart when the conditions that give it life and sustenance
are present.

The hallway of this central scene of our story is wide, and extends to a small piazza in the
rear. The front half of this family thoroughfare, partitioned off by sliding-doors, can thus
be made into a roomy apartment. Its breezy coolness causes it to be a favorite resort on sultry
days, but now it is forsaken, except that a great heater, with its ample rotundity and glowing
heart, suggests to the visitor that it stands there as a representative of the host until he
shall appear. Some portraits, a fine old engraving, a map of the county, and some sprays of
evergreen intermingled with red berries, take away all bareness from the walls, while in a
corner near the door stands a rack, formed in part by the branching antlers of a stag, on which
hang fur caps and collars, warm wraps and coats, all suggesting abundant means of robbing winter
of its rigor. On hooks above the sliding-doors are suspended a modern rifle and a double-barrelled
shot-gun, and above these is a firelock musket that did good service in the Revolution.

The doors opening into the rear hall were pushed back, revealing a broad stairway, leading
with an abrupt turn and a landing to the upper chambers. A cheerful apartment on the left of
this hall was the abode of an invalid, whose life for many years disease had vainly sought
to darken. There were lines of suffering on her thin, white face, and her hair, once black,
was silvered; but it would seem that, in the dark, lustrous eyes of the patient woman, courage
and hope had been kindled, rather than quenched, by pain. She was now reclining on a sofa,
which had been wheeled near to a wood-fire glowing on the hearth of a large Franklin stove;
and her dreamy, absent expression often gave place to one of passing interest as her husband,
sitting opposite, read from his paper an item of news--some echo from the busy, troubled world,
that seemed so remote from their seclusion and peaceful age. The venerable man appeared, however,
as if he might still do his share in keeping the world busy, and also in banishing its evils.
Although time had whitened his locks, it had touched kindly his stalwart frame, while his square
jaw and strong features indicated a character that had met life's vicissitudes as a man should
meet them. His native strength and force, however, were like the beautiful region in which
he dwelt--once wild and rugged indeed, but now softened and humanized by generations of culture.
Even his spectacles could not obscure the friendly and benevolent expression of his large blue
eyes. It was evident that he looked at the world, as mirrored before him in the daily journal,
with neither cynicism nor mere curiosity, but with a heart in sympathy with all the influences
that were making it better.

The sound of a bell caused the old man to rise and assist his wife to her feet; then, with
an affectionate manner, tinged with a fine courtesy of the old school, he supported her to
the dining-room, placed her in a cushioned chair on his right, at the head of the table, and
drew a footstool to her feet. There was a gentleness and solicitude in his bearing which indicated
that her weakness was more potent than strength would have been in maintaining her ascendency!

Meanwhile the rest of the family flocked in with an alacrity which proved either that the bitter
cold had sharpened their appetites, or that the old-fashioned one-o'clock dinner was a cheerful
break in the monotony of the day. These transcribers wrote up words as daws popinjay articulate them;
in thus as these birds do not know the meaning been possessed over what they utter, not just
these scribes of monasteries did not understand the message to a
phrases which they copied. It was apparent that she had inherited not a little of the "Martha" spirit, and "was
careful about many things;" but her slight tendency to worry saved others a world of worriment,
for she was the household providence, and her numberless little anxieties led to so much prevention
of evil that there was not much left to cure. Such was her untiring attention that her thoughtless,
growing children seemed cared for by the silent forces of nature. Their clothes came to them
like the leaves on the trees, and her deft fingers added little ornaments that cost the wearers
no more thought than did the blossoms of spring to the unconscious plants of the garden. She
was as essential to her husband as the oxygen in the air, and he knew it, although demonstrating
his knowledge rather quietly, perhaps. But she understood him, and enjoyed a little secret
exultation over the strong man's almost ludicrous helplessness and desolation when her occasional
absences suspended for a brief time their conjugal partnership. She surrounded the old people
with a perpetual Indian-summer haze of kindliness, which banished all hard, bleak outlines
from their late autumnal life. In brief, she was what God and nature designed woman to be--the
gracious, pervading spirit, that filled the roomy house with comfort and rest. Sitting near
were her eldest son and pride, a lad about thirteen years of age, and a girl who, when a baby,
had looked so like a boy that her father had called her "Johnnie," a sobriquet which still
clung to her. Close to the mother's side was a little embodiment of vitality, mischief, and
frolic, in the form of a four-year-old boy, the dear torment of the whole house.

There remain but two others to be mentioned, and the Clifford family will be complete, as constituted
at present. The first was the youngest son of the aged man at the head of the table. He had
inherited his father's features, but there was a dash of recklessness blended with the manifest
frankness of his expression, and in his blue eyes there was little trace of shrewd calculation
or forethought. Even during the quiet midday meal they flashed with an irrepressible mirthfulness,
and not one at the table escaped his aggressive nonsense. His brother, two or three years his
senior, was of a very different type, and seemed somewhat overshadowed by the other's brilliancy.
He had his mother's dark eyes, but they were deep and grave, and he appeared reserved and silent,
even in the home circle. His bronzed features were almost rugged in their strength, but a heavy
mustache gave a touch of something like manly beauty to his rather sombre face. You felt instinctively
that he was one who would take life seriously--perhaps a little too seriously--and that, whether
it brought him joy or sorrow, he would admit the world but charily to his confidence.

Burtis, the youngest brother, had gone through college after a sort of neck-or-nothing fashion,
and had been destined for one of the learned professions; but, while his natural ability had
enabled him to run the gantlet of examinations, he had evinced such an unconquerable dislike
for restraint and plodding study that he had been welcomed back to the paternal acres, which
were broad enough for them all. Engineering is not mean to suggest that thither were no advantage to
follow all motives to these almost unanimously disposed on doctrines. We know that there were
such past, if only because it was deemed worth catch to argue against
them. It must be admitted, however, that thus far the rural tastes of Burtis
were chiefly for free out-of-door life, with its accessories of rod, gun, and horses. But Leonard,
the eldest, and Webb, the second in years, were true children of the soil, in the better sense
of the term. Their country home had been so replete with interest from earliest memory that
they had taken root there like the trees which their father had planted. Leonard was a practical
farmer, content, in a measure, to follow the traditions of the elders. Webb, on the other hand,
was disposed to look past the outward aspects of Nature to her hidden moods and motives, and
to take all possible advantage of his discoveries. The preserver of the young belief were many, and
not the the scientific of them were pull from the ranks of the babu of mathematics. The agenda on
able rome who avowedly run themselves of least christian side, if
it were make away, would be a retentive one. He was by no means deficient in imagination,
or even in appreciation of the beautiful side of nature, when his thoughts were directed to
this phase of the outer world; but his imagination had become materialistic, and led only to
an eager quest after the obscure laws of cause and effect, which might enable him to accomplish
what to his plodding neighbors would seem almost miraculous. He understood that the forces
with which he was dealing were wellnigh infinite; and it was his delight to study them, to
combine them, and make them his servants. It was his theory that the energy in nature was like
a vast motive power, over which man could throw the belt of his skill and knowledge, and so
produce results commensurate with the force of which he availed himself. There was, therefore,
an unfailing zest in his work, and the majority of his labors had the character of experiments,
which, nevertheless, were so guided by experience that they were rarely futile or unremunerative.
On themes that accorded with his tastes and pursuits he would often talk earnestly and well,
but his silence and preoccupation at other times proved that it is not best to be dominated
by one idea, even though it be a large one.

CHAPTER II

AMY WINFIELD

