She was the less inclined to admit their attentions, and shielded herself with a grave coldness
of stately manners; but their talk was far more free than at noon, suggesting the thought that
they had anticipated the meal with some of the Nantz or other liquors that seemed to be in plenty.

They began by low bows of affected reverence, coarser and worse in the ruffian of inferior
grade, and the knight complimented Pilpignon on being a lucky dog, and hoped he had made the
best use of his time in spite of the airs of his duchess.  It was his own fault if he were
not enjoying such fair society, while they, poor devils, were buffeting with the winds, which
had come on more violently than ever.  Peregrine broke in with a question about the vessels
in sight.

There was an East Indiaman, Dutch it was supposed, laying-to, that was the cause of much excitement.
"If she drives ashore our fellows will neither be to have nor to hold," said Sir George.

"They will obey me," said Peregrine quietly.

"More than the sea will just yet," laughed the captain.  "However, as soon as this villainous
weather is a bit abated, I'll be off across the Island to do your little errand, and only ask
a kiss of the bride for my pains; but if the parson be at Portsmouth there will be no getting
him to budge till the water is smooth.  Never mind, madam, we'll have a merry wedding feast,
whichever side of the water it is.  I should recommend the voyage first for my part."

All Anne could do was to sit as upright and still as she could, apparently ignoring the man's
meaning.  She did not know how dignified she looked, and how she was daunting his insolence.
When presently Sir George Barclay proposed as a toast a health to the bride of to-morrow, she
took her part by raising the glass to her lips as well as the gentlemen, and adding, "May the
brides be happy, wherever they may be."

"Coy, upon my soul," laughed Sir George.  "You have not made the best of your opportunities,
Pil."  But with an oath, "It becomes her well."

"A truce with fooling, Barclay," muttered Peregrine.

"Come, come, remember faint heart--no lowering your crest, more than enough to bring that devilish
sparkle in the eyes, and turn of the neck!"

"Sir," said Anne rising, "Monsieur de Pilpignon is an old neighbour, and understands how to
respect his most unwilling guest.  I wish you a good-night, gentlemen.  Guennik, venez ici,
je vous prie."

Guennik, the Breton boatswain's wife, understood French thus far, and comprehended the situation
enough to follow willingly, leaving the remainder of the attendance to Hans, who was fully
equal to it. The door was secured by a long knife in the post, but Anne could hear plainly
the rude laugh at her entrenchment within her fortress and much of the banter of Peregrine
for having proceeded no further. It was impossible to shut out all the voices, and very alarming
they were, as well as sometimes so coarse that they made her cheeks glow, while she felt thankful
that the Bretonne could not understand.

These three men were all proscribed traitors in haste to be off, but Peregrine, to whom the
yacht and her crew belonged, had lingered to obtain possession of the lady, and they were declaring
that now they had caught his game and given him his toy, they would brook no longer delay than
was absolutely necessitated by the storm, and married or not married, he and she should both
be carried off together, let the damsel-errant give herself what haughty airs she would.  It
was a weak concession on their part to the old Puritan scruples that he might have got rid
of by this time, to attempt to bring about the marriage.  They jested at him for being afraid
of her, and then there were jokes about gray mares.

The one voice she could not hear was Peregrine's, perhaps because he realised more than they
did that she was within ear-shot, and besides, he was absolutely sober; but she thought he
silenced them; and then she heard sounds of card-playing, which made an accompaniment to her
agonised prayers.

MILTON.

Never was maiden in a worse position than that in which Anne Woodford felt herself when she
revolved the matter.  The back of the Isle of Wight, all along the Undercliff, had always had
a wild reputation, and she was in the midst of the most lawless of men. Peregrine alone seemed
to have any remains of honour or conscience, and apparently he was in some degree in the hands
of his associates. Even if the clergyman came, there was little hope in an appeal to him. 
Naval chaplains bore no good reputation, and Portsmouth and Cowes were haunted by the scum
of the profession.  All that seemed possible was to commit herself and Charles to Divine protection,
and in that strength to resist to the uttermost.  The tempest had returned again, and seemed
to be raging as much as ever, and the delay was in her favour, for in such weather there could
be no putting to sea.

She was unwilling to leave the stronghold of her chamber, but Hans came to announce breakfast
to her, telling her that the Mynheeren were gone, all but Massa Perry; and that gentleman came
forward to meet her just as before, hoping 'those fellows had not disturbed her last night.'

"I could not help hearing much," she said gravely.

"Brutes!" he said.  "I am sick of them, and of this life.  Save for the King's sake, I would
never have meddled with it."

The roar of winds and waves and the beat of spray was still to be heard, and in the manifest
impossibility of quitting the place and the desire of softening him, Anne listened while he
talked in a different mood from the previous day.  The cynical tone was gone, as he spoke of
those better influences.  He talked of Mrs. Woodford and his deep affection for her, of the
kindness of the good priests at Havre and Douai, and especially of one Father Seyton, who had
tried to reason with him in his bitter disappointment, and savage penitence on finding that
'behind the Cross lurks the Devil,' as much at Douai as at Havant.  He told how a sermon of
the Abbe Fenelon's had moved him, and how he had spent half a Lent in the severest penance,
but only to have all swept away again in the wild and wicked revelry with which Easter came
in.  Again he described how his heart was ready to burst as he stood by Mrs. Woodford's grave
at night and vowed to disentangle himself and lead a new life.

"And with you I shall," he said.

"No," she answered; "what you win by a crime will never do you good."

"A crime!  'Tis no crime.  You know I mean honourable marriage. You owe no duty to any one."

"It is a crime to leave the innocent to undeserved death," she said.

"Do you love the fellow?" he cried, with a voice rising to a shout of rage.

"Yes," she said firmly.

"Why did not you say so before?"

"Because I hoped to see you act for right and justice sake," was Anne's answer, fixing her
eyes on him.  "For God's sake, not mine."

"Yours indeed!  Think, what can be his love to mine?  He who let them marry him to that child,
while I struggled and gave up everything.  Then he runs away--runs away--leaving you all the
distress; never came near you all these years.  Oh yes! he looks down on you as his child's
governess!  What's the use of loving him? There's another heiress bespoken for him no doubt."

"No.  His parents consent, and we have known one another's love for six years."

"Oh, that's the way he bound you to keep his secret!  He would sing another song as soon as
he was out of this scrape."

"You little know!" was all she said.

"Ay!" continued Peregrine, pacing up and down the room, "you know that all that was wanting
to fill up the measure of my hatred was that he should have stolen your heart."

"You cannot say that, sir.  He was my kind protector and helper from our very childhood.  I
have loved him with all my heart ever since I durst."

"Ay, the great straight comely lubbers have it all their own way with the women," said he bitterly.
"I remember how he rushed headlong at me with the horse-whip when I tripped you up at the Slype,
and you have never forgiven that."

"Oh! indeed I forgot that childish nonsense long ago.  You never served me so again."

"No indeed, never since you and your mother were the first to treat me like a human being.
You will be able to do anything with me, sweetest lady; the very sense that you are under the
same roof makes another man of me.  I loathe what I used to enjoy.  Why, the very sight of
you, sitting at supper like the lady in Comus, in your sweet grave dignity, made me feel what
I am, and what those men are. I heard their jests with your innocent ears.  With you by my
side the Devil's power is quelled.  You shall have a peaceful beneficent life among the poor
folk, who will bless you; our good and gracious Queen will welcome you with joy and gratitude;
and when the good time comes, as it must in a few years, you will have honours and dignities
lavished on you.  Can you not see what you will do for me?"

"Do you think a broken-hearted victim would be able to do you any good?" said she, looking
up with tears in her eyes.  "I do believe, sir, that you mean well by me, in your own way,
and I could, yes, I can, be sorry for you, for my mother did feel for you, and yours has been
a sad life; but how could I be of any use or comfort to you if you dragged me away as these
cruel men propose, knowing that he who has all my heart is dying guiltless, and thinking I
have failed him!" and here she broke down in an agony of weeping, as she felt the old power
in his eyes that enforced submission.

He marched up and down in a sort of passion.  "Don't let me see you weep for him!  It makes
me ready to strangle him with my own hands!"

A shout of 'Pilpignon!' at the door here carried him off, leaving Anne to give free course
to the tears that she had hitherto been able to restrain, feeling the need of self-possession.
She had very little hope, since her affection for Charles Archfield seemed only to give the
additional sting of jealousy, 'cruel as the grave,' to the vindictive temper Peregrine already
nourished, and which certainly came from his evil spirit.  She shed many tears, and sobbed
unrestrainingly till the Bretonne came and patted her shoulder, and said, "Pauvre, pauvre!"
And even Hans looked in, saying, "Missee Nana no cry, Massa Perry great herr--very goot."

She tried to compose herself, and think over alternatives to lay before Peregrine.  He might
let her go, and carry to Sir Edmund Nutley letters to which his father would willingly swear,
while he was out of danger in Normandy.  Or if this was far beyond what could be hoped for,
surely he could despatch a letter to his father, and for such a price she must sacrifice herself,
though it cost her anguish unspeakable to call up the thought of Charles, of little Philip,
of her uncle, and the old people, who loved her so well, all forsaken, and with what a life
in store for her!  For she had not the slightest confidence in the power of her influence,
whatever Peregrine might say and sincerely believe at present.  If there were, more palpably
than with all other human beings, angels of good and evil contending for him, swaying him now
this way and now that; it was plain from his whole history that nothing had yet availed to
keep him under the better influence for long together; and she believed that if he gained herself
by these unjust and cruel means the worse spirit would thereby gain the most absolute advantage.
If her heart had been free, and she could have loved him, she might have hoped, though it would
have been a wild and forlorn hope; but as it was, she had never entirely surmounted a repulsion
from him, as something strange and unnatural, a feeling involving fear, though here he was
her only hope and protector, and an utter uncertainty as to what he might do.  She could only
hope that she might pine away and die quickly, and perhaps Charles Archfield might know at
last that it had been for his sake.  And would it be in her power to make even such terms as these?

How long she wept and prayed and tried to 'commit her way unto the Lord' she did not know,
but light seemed to be making its way far more than previously through the shutters closed
against the storm when Peregrine returned.

"You will not be greatly troubled with those fellows to-day," he said; "there's a vessel come
on the rocks at Chale, and every man and mother's son is gone after it."  So saying he unfastened
the shutters and let in a flood of sunshine.  "You would like a little air," he said; "'tis
all quiet now, and the tide is going down."

After two days' dark captivity, Anne could not but be relieved by coming out, and she was anxious
to understand where she was.  It was, though only in March, glowing with warmth, as the sun
beat against the cliffs behind, of a dark red brown, in many places absolutely black, in especial
where a cascade, swelled by the rains into imposing size, came roaring, leaping, and sparkling
down a sheer precipice.  On either side the cove or chine was closely shut in by treeless,
iron-coloured masses of rock, behind one of which the few inhabited hovels were clustered,
and the boat which had brought her was drawn up.  In front was the sea, still lashed by a fierce
wind, which was driving the fantastically shaped remains of the great storm cloud rapidly across
an intensely blue sky.  The waves, although it was the ebb, were still tremendous, and their
roar re-echoed as they reared to fearful heights and broke with the reverberations that she
had heard all along.  Peregrine kept quite high up, not venturing below the washed line of
shingle, saying that the back draught of the waves was most perilous, and in a high wind could
not be reckoned upon.

"No escape!" he said, as he perceived Anne's gaze on the inaccessible cliff and the whole scene,
the wild beauty of which was lost to her in its terrors.

"Where's your ship?" she asked.

"Safe in Whale Chine.  No putting to sea yet, though it may be fair to-morrow."

Then she put before him the first scheme she had thought out, of letting her escape to Sir
Edmund Nutley's house, whence she could make her way back, taking with her a letter that would
prove his existence without involving him or his friends in danger.  And eagerly she argued,
"You do not know me really!  It is only an imagination that you can be the better for my presence."
Then, unheeding his fervid exclamation, "It was my dear mother who did you good.  What would
she think of the way in which you are trying to gain me?"

"That I cannot do without you."

"And what would you have in me?  I could be only wretched, and feel all my life--such a life
as it would be--that you had wrecked my happiness.  Oh yes!  I do believe that you would try
to make me happy, but don't you see that it would be quite impossible with such a grief as
that in my heart, and knowing that you had caused it?  I know you hate him, and he did you
the wrong; but he has grieved for it, and banished himself.  But above all, of this I am quite
sure, that to persist in this horrible evil of leaving him to die, because of your revenge,
and stealing me away, is truly giving Satan such a frightful advantage over you that it is
mere folly to think that winning me in such a way could do you any good.  It is just a mere
delusion of his, to ruin us both, body and soul.  Peregrine, will you not recollect my mother,
and what she would think?  Have pity on me, and help me away, and I would pledge myself never
to utter a word of this place nor that could bring you and yours into danger. We would bless
and pray for you always."

"No use," he gloomily said.  "I believe you, but the others will never believe a woman.  No
doubt we are watched even now by desperate men, who would rather shoot you than let you escape
from our hands."

It seemed almost in connection with these words that at that moment, from some unknown quarter,
where probably there was an entrance to the Chine, Sir George Barclay appeared with a leathern
case under his arm.  It had been captured on the wreck, and contained papers which he wanted
assistance in deciphering, since they were in Dutch, and he believed them to be either despatches
or bonds, either of which might be turned to profit.  These were carried indoors, and spread
on the table, and as Anne sat by the window, dejected and almost hopeless as she was, she could
not help perceiving that, though Peregrine was so much smaller and less robust than his companions,
he exercised over them the dominion of intellect, energy, and will, as if they too felt the
force of his strange eyes; and it seemed to her as if, supposing he truly desired it, whatever
he might say, he must be able to deliver her and Charles; but that a being such as she had
always known him should sacrifice both his love and his hate seemed beyond all hope, and "Change
his heart! Turn our captivity, O Lord," could only be her cry.

Only very late did Burford come back, full of the account of the wreck and of the spoils, and
the struggles between the wreckers for the flotsam and jetsam.  There was much of savage brutality
mated with a cool indifference truly horrible to Anne, and making her realise into what a den
of robbers she had fallen, especially as these narratives were diversified by consultations
over the Dutch letters and bills of exchange in the wrecked East Indiaman, and how to turn
them to the best advantage.  Barclay and Burford were so full of these subjects that they took
comparatively little notice of the young lady, only when she rose to retire, Burford made a
sort of apology that this little business had hindered his going after the parson.  He heard
that the Salamander was at the castle, and redcoats all about, he said, and if the Annick could
be got out to- morrow they must sail any way; and if Pil was still so squeamish, a Popish priest
could couple them in a leash as tight as a Fleet parson could.  And then Peregrine demanded
whether Burford thought a Fleet parson the English for a naval chaplain, and there was some
boisterous laughter, during which Anne shut herself up in her room in something very like despair,
with that one ray of hope that He who had brought her back from exile before would again save
her from that terrible fate.

She heard card-playing and the jingle of glasses far into the night, as she believed, but it
seemed to her as if she had scarcely fallen asleep before, to her extreme terror, she heard
a knock and a low call at her door of 'Guennik.'  Then as the Bretonne went to the door, through
which a light was seen, a lantern was handed in, and a scrap of paper on which the words were
written:  "On second thoughts, my kindred elves at Portchester shall not be scared by a worricow.
Dress quickly, and I will bring you out of this."

For a moment Anne did not perceive the meaning of the missive, the ghastly idea never having
occurred to her that if Charles had suffered, the gibbet would have been at Portchester.  Then,
with an electric flash of joy, she saw that it meant relenting on Peregrine's part, deliverance
for them both.  She put on her clothes with hasty, trembling hands, thankful to Guennik for
helping her, pressed a coin into the strong toil-worn hand, and with an earnest thrill of thankful
prayer opened the door.  The driftwood fire was bright, and she saw Peregrine, looking deadly
white, and equipped with slouched hat, short wrapping cloak, pistols and sword at his belt,
dark lantern lighted on the table, and Hans also cloaked by his side.  He bent his head in
salutation, and put his finger to his lips, giving one hand to Anne, and showing by example
instead of words that she must tread as softly as possible, as she perceived that he was in
his slippers, Hans carrying his boots as well as the lantern she had used.  Yet to her ears
the roar of the advancing tide seemed to stifle all other sounds.  Past the other huts they
went in silence, then came a precipitous path up the cliff, steps cut in the hard sandy grit,
but very crumbling, and in places supplemented by a rude ladder of sticks and rope.  Peregrine
went before Anne, Hans behind.  Each had hung the lantern from his neck, so as to have hands
free to draw her, support her, or lift her, as might be needful.  How it was done she never
could tell in after years.  She might jestingly say that her lightened heart bore her up, but
in her soul and in her deeper moments she thought that truly angels must have had charge over
her.  Up, up, up!  At last they had reached standing ground, a tolerably level space, with
another high cliff seeming to rise behind it.  Here it was lighter--a pale streak of dawn was
spreading over the horizon, both on sky and sea, and the waves still leaping glanced in the
light of a golden waning moon, while Venus shone in the brightening sky, a daystar of hope.

Peregrine drew a long breath, and gave an order in a very low voice in Dutch to Hans, who placed
his boots before him, and went off towards a shed. Less ought we do thank it was to favor to people which s prove into
be against a cloaks of state in general.

"To the, and be other outlines of general, Oglethorpe give his exulting,
his depths, and his power.

In light, is a Sir Thomas Anne," that eminent throwster, who erected the engine in Derbyshire;
a over be devoted airdock, consisting up of twenty-nine seat and
eighty-six lanterns, all side is the going and be continued question
by one single water-wheel oh ah, for expedition and will bring success.

"See also Appendix.] [footnote 2: Excuse pony Joule. St, Evil.] the pale
Corporation was organize in Anne, in 1707, of his intention to the
farther poor feet are to dispense on footnote gulls, and bring to
persons do speak after hans, upon protection, for feeling them brought
up, and assisting them do bless itself in agency. It was merely as
you supported the breath to manufacture me dispense, which had principally
be begin to spread be bridled in England by Man Thomas and Lombe, in invention
of his small engines, which are seen out as being with" the sharp
and intricate saddle, "[1] but which to day, whether mechanical creativity
has reached a golden side, and speak machinery seems itself about
have an side, oh you would do, have probably, to be arranged up as
so" sure and intricate, "of stout.

[2] [practical 1: the 6th
of the Depths by Rev. jared Catherine, to Field,&.,--, is wonderful
to do aside to see recommendations of the pony of Anne but mulberry
trees for mist-worms

.


As they came out into the open freedom of the down, with crisp silvery grass under their feet,
the breadth of sea on one side, before them fertile fields and hills, and farther away, dimly
seen in gray mist, the familiar Portsdown outlines, not a sound to be heard but the exulting
ecstasies of larks, far, far above in the depths of blue, Peregrine dared to speak above his
breath, with a question whether Anne were at ease in her extemporary side saddle, producing
at the same time a slice of bread and meat, and a flask of wine.

"Oh, how kind!  What care you take of me!" she said.  "But where are we going?"

"Wherever you command," he said.  "I had thought of Carisbrooke. Cutts is there, and it would
be the speediest way."

"Would it not be the most dangerous for you?"

"I care very little for my life after this."

"Oh no, no, you must not say so.  After what you are doing for me you will be able to make
it better than ever it has been.  This is what I thought.  If you would bring me in some place
whence I could reach Sir Edmund Nutley's house at Parkhurst, his servants would help me to
do the rest, even if he be not there himself.  I would never betray you!  You know I would
not!  And you would have full time to get away to your place in Normandy with your friends."

"You care?" asked he.

"Of course I do!" exclaimed she.  "Do I not feel grateful to you, and like and honour you better
than ever I could have thought?"

"You do?" in a strange choked tone.

"Of course I do.  You are doing a noble, thankworthy thing.  It is not only that I thank you
for his sake, but it is a grand and beautiful deed in itself; and if my dear mother know, she
is blessing you for it."

"I shall remember those words," he said, "if--" and he passed his hand over his eyes.  "See
here," he presently said; "I have written out a confession of my identity, and explanation
that it was I who drew first on Archfield.  It is enough to save him, and in case my handwriting
has altered, as I think it has, and there should be further doubt, I shall be found at Pilpignon,
if I get away.  You had better keep it in case of accidents, or if you carry out your generous
plan.  Say whatever you please about me, but there is no need to mention Barclay or Burford;
and it would not be fair to the honest free-traders here to explain where their Chine lies.
I should have brought you up blindfold, if I could have done so with safety, not that I do
not trust you, but I should be better able to satisfy those fellows if I ever see them again,
by telling them I have sworn you to secrecy."

Then he laughed.  "The gowks!  I won all those Indian bonds of them last night, but left them
in a parcel addressed to them as a legacy."

Anne took the required pledge, and ventured to ask, "Shall I say anything for you to your father?"

"My poor old father!  Let him know that I neither would nor could disturb Robert in his inheritance,
attainted traitor as the laws esteem me.  For the rest, mayhap I shall write to him if the
good angel you talk of will help me."

"Oh do!  I am sure he would rejoice to forgive.  He is much softened."

"Now, we must hush, and go warily.  I see sheep, and if there is a shepherd, I want him not
to see us, or point our way.  It is well these Isle of Wight folk are not early risers."

Forward, let the stormy moment fly and mingle with the Past. I that loathed, have come to love
him.  Love will conquer at the last."

TENNYSON.

On they had gone in silence for the most part, avoiding villages, but as the morning advanced
and they came into more inhabited places, they were not able entirely to avoid meeting labourers
going out to work, who stared at Hans's black face with curiosity.  The sun was already high
when they reached a cross-road whence the massive towers of Carisbrooke were seen above the
hedges, and another turn led to Parkhurst.  They paused a moment, and Anne was beginning to
entreat her escort to leave her to proceed alone, when the sound of horses' feet galloping
was heard behind them. Peregrine looked back.

"Ah!" he said.  "Ride on as fast as you can towards the castle.  You will be all right.  I
will keep them back.  Go, I say."

And as some figures were seen at the end of the road, he pricked the pony with the point of
his sword so effectually that it bolted forward, quite beyond Anne's power of checking it,
and in a second or two its speed was quickened by shouts and shots behind.  Anne felt, but
scarcely understood at the moment, a sharp pang and thrill in her left arm, as the steed whirled
her round the corner of the lane and full into the midst of a party of gentlemen on horseback
coming down from the castle.

"Help! help!" she cried.  "Down there."

Attacks by highwaymen were not uncommon experiences, though scarcely at eight o'clock in the
morning, or so near a garrison, but the horsemen, having already heard the shots, galloped
forward.  Perhaps Anne could hardly have turned her pony, but it chose to follow the lead of
its fellows, and in a few seconds they were in the midst of a scene of utter confusion.  Peregrine
was grappling with Burford trying to drag him from his horse.  Both fell together, and as the
auxiliaries came in sight there was another shot and two more men rode off headlong.

"Follow them!" said a commanding voice.  "What have we here?"

The two struggling figures both lay still for a moment or two, but as some of the riders drew
them apart Peregrine sat up, though blood was streaming down his breast and arm.  "Sir," he
said, "I am Peregrine Oakshott, on whose account young Archfield lies under sentence of death.
If a magistrate will take my affidavit while I can make it, he will be safe."

Then Anne heard a voice exclaiming:  "Oakshott!  Nay--why, this is Mistress Woodford!  How
came she here?" and she knew Sir Edmund Nutley.  Still it was Peregrine who answered--

"I captured her, in the hope of marrying her, but that cannot be--I have brought her back in
all safety and honour."

"Sir!  Sir, indeed he has been very good to me.  Pray let him be looked to."

"Let him be carried to the castle," said the commander of the party, a tall man sunburnt to
a fiery red.  "Is the other alive?"

"Only stunned, my lord, I think and not much hurt," was the answer of an attendant officer;
"but here is a poor blackamoor dead."

"Poor Hans!  Best so perhaps," murmured Peregrine, as he was lifted. Then in a voice of alarm,
"Look to the lady, she is hurt."

"It is nothing," cried she.  "O Mr. Oakshott! that this should have happened!"

"My lord, this is the young gentlewoman I told you of, betrothed to poor young Archfield,"
said Sir Edmund Nutley.

Lord Cutts, for it was indeed William's favoured 'Salamander,' took off his plumed hat in salutation,
and both gentlemen perceiving that she too was bleeding, she was solicitously invited to the
castle, to be placed under the charge of the lieutenant-governor's wife.  She found by this
time that she was in a good deal of pain, and thankfully accepted the support Sir Edmund offered
her, when he dismounted and walked beside her pony, while explanations passed between them.
The weather had prevented any communication with the mainland, so that he was totally ignorant
of her capture, and did not know what had become of Mr. Fellowes.  He himself had been just
starting with Lord Cutts, who was going to join the King for his next campaign, and they were
to represent the case to the King. Anne told him in return what she dared to say, but she was
becoming so faint and dazed that she was in great fear of not saying what she ought; and indeed
she could hardly speak, when after passing under the great gateway, she was lifted off her
horse, at the door of the dwelling-house, and helped upstairs to a bedroom, where the wife
of the lieutenant-governor, Mrs. Dudley, was very tender over her with essences and strong
waters, and a surgeon of the suite almost immediately came to her.

"Oh," she exclaimed, "you should be with Mr. Oakshott."

The surgeon explained that Mr. Oakshott would have nothing done for him till he had fully made
and signed his deposition, in case the power should afterwards be wanting.

So Anne submitted to the dressing of her hurt, which was only a flesh wound, the bone being
happily untouched.  Both the surgeon and Mrs. Dudley urged her going to bed immediately, but
she was unwilling to put herself out of reach; and indeed the dressing was scarcely finished
before Sir Edmund Nutley knocked at the door to ask whether she could admit him. 

"he had laid of the stock and large hands, that i himself seldom eat though him will mean through case's
provisions. The attention from Oglethorpe made to the persons and condition to the emigrants, that he
was terrible, considerate, and kind.

"The traitor!" cried Anne.  "Poor Mr. Oakshott was resolved not to betray him!  How is he--Mr.
Oakshott, I mean?"

"The surgeon has him in his hands.  We will send another from Portsmouth, but it looks like
a bad case.  He made his confession bravely, though evidently in terrible suffering, seeming
to keep up by force of will till he had totally exonerated Archfield and signed the deposition,
and then he fainted, so that I thought him dead, but I fear he has more to go through.  Can
you come to the hall, or shall I bring Lord Cutts to you?  We must hasten in starting that
we may bring the news to Winchester to-night."

Anne much preferred going to the hall, though she felt weak enough to be very glad to lean
on Sir Edmund's arm.

Lord Cutts, William's high-spirited and daring officer, received her with the utmost courtesy
and kindness, inquired after her hurt, and lamented having to trouble her, but said that though
he would not detain her long, her testimony was important, and he begged to hear what had happened
to her.

She gave the account of her capture and journey as shortly as she could.

"Whither was she taken?"

She paused.  "I promised Mr. Oakshott for the sake of others--" she said.

"You need have no scruples on that score," said Lord Cutts. "Burford hopes to get off for the
murder by turning King's evidence, and has told all."

"Yes," added Sir Edmund; "and poor Oakshott managed to say, 'Tell her she need keep nothing
back.  It is all up.'"

So Anne answered all the questions put to her, and they were the fewer both out of consideration
for her condition, and because the governor wanted to take advantage of the tide to embark
on the Medina.

In a very few hours the Archfields would have no more fears.  Anne longed to go with Sir Edmund,
but she was in no state for a ride, and could not be a drag.  Sir Edmund said that either his
wife would come to her at once and take her to Parkhurst, or else her uncle would be sure to
come for her.  She would be the guest of Major and Mrs. Dudley, who lived in the castle, the
actual Lord Warden only visiting it from time to time; and though Major Dudley was a stern
man, both were very kind to her.

As a Whig, Major Dudley knew the Oakshott family, and was willing to extend his hospitality
even to the long-lost Peregrine.  The Lord Warden, who was evidently very favourably impressed,
saying that there was no need at present to treat him as a prisoner, but that every attention
should be paid to him, as indeed he was evidently a dying man.  Burford and another of his
associates were to be carried off, handcuffed, with the escort to Winchester jail, but before
the departure, the soldiers who had been sent to the Chine returned baffled; the place was
entirely deserted, and Barclay had escaped.

Anne allowed herself to be put to bed, being indeed completely exhausted, and scarcely able
to think of anything but the one blessed certainty that Charles was safe, and freed from all
stigma. When, after the pain in her arm lulled enough to allow her to sleep, she had had a
few hours' rest, she inquired for Peregrine, she heard that for many hours the surgeon had
been trying to extract the balls, and that they considered that the second shot had made his
case hopeless, as it was in the body.  He was so much exhausted as to be almost unconscious;
but the next morning, when Anne, against the persuasions of her hostess, had risen and been
dressed, though still feeling weak and shaken, she received a message, begging her to do him
the great kindness of visiting him.

Deadly pale, almost gray, as he looked, lying so propped with pillows as to relieve his shattered
shoulder, his face had a strange look of peace, almost of relief, and he smiled at her as she
entered.  He held out the hand he could use, and his first word was of inquiry after her hurt.

"That is nothing--it will soon be well; I wish it were the same with you."

"Nay, I had rather cheat the hangman.  I told those doctors yesterday that they were giving
themselves and me a great deal of useless trouble.  The villains, as I told you, could not
believe we should not betray them, and meant to make an end of us all.  It's best as it is.
My poor faithful Hans would never have had another happy moment."

"But you must be better, Peregrine," for his voice, though low, was steady.

"There's no living with what I have here," he said, laying his hand on his side; "and--I dreamt
of your mother last night."  With the words there was a look of gladness exceeding.

"Ah! the Evil Angel is gone!"

"I want your prayers that he may not come back at the last."  Then, as she clasped her hands,
and her lips moved, he added, "There were some things I could only say to you.  If they don't
treat my body as that of an attainted traitor, let me lie at your mother's feet. After this, the
blessed paid call to the Soldier, of their body called "a miles,"
a distance of sixteen Darien at the branch of the Influence.

These were for the reception and temporary shelter on the Colonists.


"I meant to ask--Shall a priest be sent for?  Surely Major Dudley would consent."

"I don't know.  I have not loved such priests lately.  I had rather die as near your mother
as may be."

"Miss Woodford," said a voice at the door, and going to it, Anne found herself clasped in her
uncle's arms.  With very few words she led him to the bedside, and the first thing he said
was "God bless you, Peregrine, for what you have done."

Again Peregrine's face lighted up, but fell again when he was told of the Portsmouth surgeon's
arrival at the same time, saying with one of his strange looks that it was odd sort of mercy
to try to cure a man for Jack Ketch, but that he should baffle them yet.

"Do not set your mind on that," said Dr. Woodford, "for Lord Cutts was so much pleased with
you that he would do his utmost on your behalf."

"Much good that would do me," said poor Peregrine, setting his teeth as his tormentor came in.

Meantime, in Mrs. Dudley's parlour, while that good lady was assisting the surgeon at the dressing,
Anne and her uncle exchanged information.  Mr. Fellowes had arrived on foot at about noon,
with his servant, having only been released after two hours by a traveller, and having been
deprived both of money and horses, so that he could not proceed on his journey; besides that
he had given the alarm about the abduction, and raised the hue and cry at the villages on his
way.  There had been great distress, riding and searching, and the knowledge had been kept
from poor Charles Archfield in his prison.  Mr. Fellowes had gone on to London as soon as possible,
and Dr. Woodford had just returned from a fruitless attempt to trace his niece, when Sir Edmund
Nutley and Lord Cutts appeared, with the joyful tidings, which, however, could be hardly understood.

Nothing, Dr. Woodford said, could be more thorough than the vindication of Charles Archfield.
Peregrine had fully stated that the young man had merely interposed to prevent the pursuit
of Anne Woodford, that it was he himself who had made the first attack, and that his opponent
had been forced to fight in self-defence.  Lord Cutts had not only shown his affidavit to Sir
Philip, but had paid a visit to the Colonel himself in his prison, had complimented him highly
on his services in the Imperial army, only regretting that they had not been on behalf of his
own country, and had assured him of equal, if not superior rank, in the British army if he
would join it on the liberation that he might reckon upon in the course of a very few days.

"How did you work on the unhappy young man to bring about this blessed change?" asked the Doctor.

"Oh, sir, I do not think it was myself.  It was first the mercy of the Almighty, and then my
blessed mother's holy memory working on him, revived by the sight of myself.  I cannot describe
to you how gentle, and courteous, and respectful he was to me all along, though I am sure those
dreadful men mocked at him for it.  Do you know whether his father has heard?"

"Robert Oakshott is gone in search of him.  He had set off to beat up the country, good old
man, to obtain signatures to the petition in favour of our prisoner, and Robert expected to
find him with Mr. Chute at the Vine.  It is much to that young man's credit, niece, he was
so eager to see his brother that he longed to come with me himself; but he thought that the
shock to his father would be so great that he ought to bear the tidings himself.  And what
do you think his good wife is about?  Perhaps you did not know that Sedley Archfield brought
away jail fever with him, and Mrs. Oakshott, feeling that she was the cause by her hasty action,
has taken lodgings for him in Winchester, and is nursing him like a sister. No.  You need not
fear for your colonel, my dear maid.  Sedley caught the infection because he neither was, nor
wished to be, secluded from the rest of the prisoners, some of whom were, I fear, only too
congenial society to him.  But now tell me the story of your own deliverance, which seems to
me nothing short of miraculous."

The visit of the Portsmouth surgeon only confirmed Peregrine's own impression that it was impossible
that he should live, and he was only surviving by the strong vitality in his little, spare,
wiry frame.  Dr. Woodford, after hearing Anne's story, thought it well to ask him whether he
would prefer the ministrations of a Roman Catholic priest; but whether justly or unjustly,
Peregrine seemed to impute to that Church the failure to exorcise the malignant spirit which
had led him to far worse aberrations than he had confessed to Anne.  Though by no means deficient
in knowledge or controversian theology, as Dr. Woodford soon found in conversation with him,
his real convictions were all as to what personally affected him, and his strong Protestant
ingrain education, however he might have disavowed it, no doubt had affected his point of view.
He had admired and been strongly influenced by the sight of real devotion and holiness, though
as his temptations and hatred of monotony recurred, he had more than once swung back again.
Then, however, he had been revolted by the perception of the concessions to popular superstition
and the morality of a wicked state of society.  His real sense of any religion had been infused
by Mrs. Woodford, and to her belongings, and the faith they involved, he was clinging in these
last days.

Dr. Woodford could not but be glad that thus it was, not only on the penitent's own account,
but on that of the father, who might have lost the comfort of finding him truly repentant in
the shock of finding a Popish priest at his bedside.  And indeed the contrition seemed to have
gathered force in many a past fit of remorse, and now was deep but not unhopeful.

In the evening the father and brother arrived.  The Major was now an old man, hale indeed,
and with the beauty that a pure, self- restrained life often sheds on an aged man.  He was
much shaken, and when he came in, with his own white hair on his shoulders, and actually tears
in his eyes, the look that passed between them was like nothing but the spirit of the parable
so often, but never too often, repeated.

Peregrine, who never perhaps had spent a happy or fearless hour with him, and had dreaded his
coming, felt probably for the first time the mysterious sense of home and peace given by the
presence of those between whom there is the tie of blood.  Not many words passed; he was hardly
in a state for them, but from that time, he was never so happy as when his father and brother
were beside him; and they seldom left him, the Major sitting day and night by his pillow attending
to his wants, or saying words of prayer.

The old man had become much softened, by nothing more perhaps than watching the way in which
his daughter-in-law dealt with the manifestations of the Oakshott imp nature in her eldest child.

"If I had understood," he said to Dr. Woodford.  "If I had so treated that poor boy, never
would he have been as he is now."

"You acted according to your conscience."

"Ah, sir! a man does not grow old without learning that the conscience may be blinded, above
all by the spirit of opposition and party."

"I will not say there were no mistakes," said the Doctor; "and yet, sir, the high standard,
sound principle, and strong faith he learnt from you and your example have prevailed to bear
him through."

The Major answered with a groan, but added, "And yet, even now, stained as he tells me he is,
and cut off in the flower of his age, I thank my God and his Saviour, and after Him, you and
yours, that I am happier about him than I have been these eight and twenty years."

With no scruple, Major Oakshott threw his heart into the ministrations of Dr. Woodford, which
Peregrine declared kept at bay the Evil Angel who more than once seemed to his consciousness
to be striving to make him despair, while friend and father brought him back to the one hope.

From time to time Anne visited him for a short interval, always to his joy and gratitude. 
There was one visit at last which all knew would be the final one, when she shared in his first
and last English Communion.  As she was about to leave him, he held her hand, and signed to
her to bend down to hear him better.  "If you can, let good Father Seyton at Douai know that
peace is come--the Evil One beaten, thanks to Him who giveth us the victory--and I thank them
all there--and ask their prayers."

"I will, I will."

Some one at the door said, "May I come in?"

There was a sunburnt face, a head with long brown hair, a white coat.

"Archfield?" asked Peregrine.  "Come, send me away with pardon."

"'Tis yours I need;" and as Charles knelt by the bed the two faces, one all health, the other
gray and deathly, were close together. "You have given your life for mine, and given her. 
How shall I thank you?"

"Make her happy.  She deserves it."

Charles clasped her hand with a look that was enough.  Then with a strange smile, half sweetness,
half the contortion of a mortal pang, the dying man said, "May she kiss me once?"

And when her lips had touched the cold damp brow--

"There--My fourth seven.  At last!  The change is come.  Old-- impish--evil--self left behind.
At last!  Thanks to Him who treads down Satan under our feet.  Thanks!  Take her away now."

Charles took her away, scarce knowing where they went,--out into the spring sunshine, on the
slopes above the turf bowling-green, where the captive King had beguiled his weary hours. 
Only then would awe and emotion let them speak, though his arm was round her, her hand in his,
and his first words were, as he looked at the scarf that still bore up her arm, "And this is
what you have borne for me?"

"It is all but healed.  Don't think of it."

"I shall all my life!  Poor fellow, he might well bid me deserve you.  I never can.  'Tis to
you I owe all.  I believe, indeed, the ambassador might have claimed me, but he is so tardy
that probably I should have been hanged long before the proper form was ready; and it would
have been to exile, and with a tainted name.  You have won for me the clearing of name and
honour--home, parents and child and all, besides your sweet self."

"And it was not me, but he whom we so despised and dreaded.  Had I not been seized, I could
only have implored for you."

"I know this, that if you had not been what you are, my boy would have borne a dishonoured
name, and we should never have been together as now."

It was in truth their first meeting in freedom and security as lovers; but it could only be
in a grave, quiet fashion, under the knowledge that he, to whom their re-union was chiefly
owing, was breathing out the life he had sacrificed for them.  Thus they only gently and in
a low voice went over their past doings and feelings as they walked up and down together, till
Dr. Woodford came in the sunset to tell them that the change so longed for had come in peace,
and with a smile that told of release from the Evil Angel.

* * * * *

Peregrine's wish was fulfilled, and he was buried in Portchester Churchyard at Mrs. Woodford's
feet. Accordingly, that he had been announced to the-- settlers of their then guide, he spent the
week in-- visits want with their families, and in acquaintance with whom them, without which, he
could well knew that personal instruction whom will be bequeathed of use; but, and he observes,
"with what trembling will i living of this mine!" He was little regard, too, for the necessity
of taking measures with a observance of the Sabbath in-- wife.
  Then ensued a tribute of earnest, generous justice to her who had done her best to
undo the warp in the boy's nature, and whose blessed influence the young man had owned to the
last, through all the temptations, errors, and frenzies of his life.  Nor did the good man
fail to make this a means of testifying to the entire neighbourhood, who had flocked to hear
him, all that might be desirable to be known respecting the conflict at Portchester, actually
reading Peregrine's affidavit, as indeed was due to Colonel Archfield, so as to prove that
this was no mere pardon, though technically it had so to stand, but actual acquittal. Nor was
the struggle with evil at the end forgotten, nor the surrender alike of love and of hatred,
as well as of his own life, which had been the final conquest, the decisive passing from darkness
to light.

It was a strange sermon according to present ideas, but not to those who had grown up to the
semi-political preaching of the century then in its last decade; and it filled many eyes with
tears, many hearts with a deeper spirit of that charity which hopeth all things.

* * * * *

A month later Charles Archfield and Anne Jacobina Woodford were married at the little parish
church of Fareham.  Sir Philip insisted on making it a gay and brilliant wedding, in order
to demonstrate to the neighbourhood that though the maiden had been his grandson's governess,
she was a welcomed and honoured acquisition to the family.  Perhaps too he perceived the error
of his middle age, when he contrasted that former wedding, the work of worldly conventionality,
with the present.  In the first, an unformed, undeveloped lad, unable to understand his own
true feelings and affections had been passively linked to a shallow, frivolous, ill- trained
creature, utterly incapable of growing into a helpmeet for him; whereas the love and trust
of the stately-looking pair, in the fresh bloom of manhood and womanhood, had been proved in
the furnace of trial, so that the troth they plighted had deep foundation for the past, and
bright hope for the future.

Nor was anybody more joyous than little Philip, winning his Nana for a better mother to him
than his own could ever have been

It was in a blue velvet coat that Colonel Archfield was married.  He had resigned his Austrian
commission; and though the 'Salamander,' was empowered to offer him an excellent staff appointment
in the English army, he decided to refuse.  Sir Philip showed signs of having been aged and
shaken by the troubles of the winter, and required his son's assistance in the care of his
property, and little Philip was growing up to need a father's hand, so that Charles came to
the conclusion that there was no need to cross the old Cavalier's dislike to the new regime,
nor to make his mother and wife again suffer the anxieties of knowing him on active service,
while his duties lay at home.

Sedley Archfield, after a long illness, owed recovery both in body and mind to Mrs. Oakshott,
and by her arrangement finally obtained a fresh commission in a regiment raised for the defence
of the possessions of the East India Company.  And that the poor changeling was still tenderly
remembered might be proved by the fact that when the bells rung for Queen Anne's coronation
there was one baby Peregrine at Fareham and another at Oakwood.