"More blame to, you!" said Pixie.  But her eyes met Stephen's with an anxiety which was not
in keeping with her tone, and, in truth, after four days' absence the face on the pillow appeared
to the onlooker, woefully drawn and white, Stephen registered a vow that Pat's temperature
should not rise again through any neglect of his own.

"All right, Pat," he said.  "I'll come as usual, and if it's inconvenient you can turn me out;
and if Miss O'Shaughnessy will accept me for an escort I'll be proud to take her about.  We'll
begin with the Abbey to-morrow."

"That's all right; I thought you would.  What's the good of a prospective uncle if he can't
make himself useful!"

It was the first time Pat had made any reference to Stanor Vaughan, for, like the rest of the
family, his pride had been stung by the non-appearance of Pixie's love, at the expiration of
the prescribed two years.  Pat knew that occasional letters passed between the young couple,
and that the understanding between them appeared unbroken, but it was a poor sort of lover
who would voluntarily add to the term of his exile.  During the four days which Pixie had spent
in the flat, almost every subject under the sun had been discussed but the one which presumably
lay nearest the girl's heart, and that had been consistently shunned.  It was only a desire
to justify a claim on his friend's services which had driven Pat to refer to the subject now,
and he sincerely wished he had remained silent as he noted the effect of his words.  Stephen
and Pixie stared steadily into space.  Neither spoke, neither smiled; their fixed, blank eyes
appeared to give the impression that they had not heard his words.  In another moment the silence
would have become embarrassing had not Pixie rung the bell and given an order for tea.

"Is this your first experience of living in a flat, Miss O'Shaughnessy? How do you like it,
as far as you've got?"  Stephen asked, with a valiant resolve to second Pixie's efforts, and
she turned her face towards him, slightly flushed, but frank and candid as ever.

"I love it--it's so social!  You know everyone's business as well as your own.  The floors
are supposed to be sound-proof, but really they're so many sounding-boards.  The couple above
had a quarrel last night--at the high points we could hear every word.  It was as good as a
theatre, though, of course--" she lengthened her face with a pretence of gravity--"'twas very
sad!  But they've made it up to-day, because she's singing.  She has one song that she sings
a dozen times every day ... something about parting from a lover.  Pat says she's been at it
for months past--`Since we parted yester eve.' ...  She feels it, poor creature!  I suggested
to Pat that we might board him, so that he might always be on the spot, and she wouldn't have
to part.  He says it would be worth the money. ...  The lady below sings `Come back to Erin'
by the hour.  She's always singing it!  We thought of sending a polite note to say that we
had given her request every consideration, but that owing to the unsettled condition of politics
in that country we really did not see our way to move. ...  And they have anthracite stoves."

"Why shouldn't they?"  Stephen asked.  He had greeted Pixie's description with the delight
of one who finds a painful situation suddenly irradiated by humour, but the anthracite stoves
conveyed no meaning.  "Why shouldn't they, if they choose?"

Pixie scowled disapproval.

"So selfish!  Noise like earthquakes every time they rake.  I wake every morning thinking I'm
dead.  This morning I counted sixty separate rakes!  Now, here's a problem for you, Mr Glynn--How
can you avenge yourself on an upstairs flatter?  If it's below: it's quite easy--you just bang
with the poker; but how can you do that on your own ceiling? 'Tis no consolation to break the
plaster!"

The tea was carried in as she spoke, and she rose to seat herself at the table, giving a friendly
smile at the trim maid who had replaced the arrant "housekeeper."

"Hot scones, Moffatt?  You do spoil us!" she said cordially, and the girl left the room abeam
with content.

"She adores me--all maids do," announced Pixie, with her complacent air well to the fore. 
"It's the way I treat them.  My sister, now--Bridgie Victor--she's a coward with her maids.
She lies awake half the night rehearsing the best ways of hinting that she'd prefer pastry
lighter than lead, after begging us all as a personal favour to eat it in case cook should
be hurt.  When I have a house--" She stopped short and busied herself with her duties, and
neither of her listeners questioned her further on the subject.

Tea was a merry meal, and Pat consumed the dainty fare with undisguised enjoyment.

"That's the pull of an accident," he declared, as he helped himself to a third scone, "ye can
eat!  It's awful to think of poor beggars on a diet. ...  Let's have muffins to-morrow, Pixie,
swimming with butter. Glynn's coming!"

"Don't tempt me!  I am coming to lunch, but you won't want me to stay on."

"Rubbish!  We do.  Stay for the whole day, and Pixie shall sing to us. It's the least she can
do, if you take her to church."

Stephen looked at his hostess with a glance curiously compounded of dread and expectation.
Music was the passion of his life, so true a passion that it was torture to him to hear the
travesties which passed under its name.  Bearing in mind the very small proportion of girls
who could really sing, he wished that the proposal had never been made, since the result would
probably mean a jarring episode in a delightful day.

"But you have no piano," he said uncertainly.  "How can--"

"It's not a piano would stop me, if I wanted to sing.  I don't need an accompaniment," Pixie
declared, and Stephen shuddered in spirit. Unaccompanied songs were terrible ordeals to the
listeners.  Eyes as well as ears were tortured.  One never knew where to look!  He pondered
as he drank his tea how the situation could be ameliorated, if not escaped, and reminded himself
thankfully that if necessary he could hire a piano and send it in.  Then, looking up, he met
Pat's eyes fixed upon him with a quizzical smile.  Pat showed at times an uncomfortable faculty
for, reading his friends' thoughts, and Stephen realised that it was in force at this minute,
and was thankful that at least it did not find vent in words.  Pixie's happy complacence about
her own powers was so far removed from ordinary conceit that he dreaded to wound it.  He therefore
hastily changed the conversation, and avoided the subject of music for the rest of his call.

The next morning, after arranging for Pat's comfort, Pixie retired to her eerie, and spent
what appeared to the invalid an unconscionably long time over her toilette.  After the cheerful
manner of flats, by slightly raising the voice it was easy to carry on a conversation with
a person in an adjoining room, and Pat therefore favoured his sister with a statement that
he "expected to see something pretty fetching, after all this time!"  "Ha!  Ha!" cried Pixie
in return, and her voice gave no hint of modesty.  Nevertheless, and for all his expectations,
Pat gave a gasp of surprise when a few minutes later she sailed into the room.

She wore a coat and skirt of a soft, mouse-coloured velvet, very quiet and nondescript in hue,
and the hat, with its curling brim, was covered with the same material.  So far, very douce
and quiet; but entirely round the hat, and curling gracefully over one side, was a magnificent
ostrich plume, which was plainly the pride of its owner's heart.  She tossed her head in answer
to Pat's uplifted hands, pirouetted round and round, and struck a telling attitude.

"Yes!  Ain't I smart?  Me dear, regard the feather!  I've longed for years to possess a scrumptious
feather, and have talked by the hour, trying to convince Bridgie it was economical in the end.
But she wouldn't.  She said 'twas expensive at the start, and she couldn't see any further.
Sometimes she is dense.  She can't help it, poor creature, living with Dick!  However, Esmeralda
did, and she bought it in Paris to match my coat.  It measures a yard, loved one!  And isn't
it kind of it to turn blue at the end?  That little touch of blue just behind my ear does set
me off!  Honest Indian, Patrick!  If you didn't know better, and came suddenly into the room,
wouldn't you think I was a pretty girl?"

"I should!" answered Pat; but a moment later he added, with true brotherly candour, "But you're
not."

"All the more credit to me!" retorted Pixie glibly.  She lifted a chair which stood at the
left of the fireplace, carried it to a similar position on the right, and seated herself upon
it.  "This side's the best.--I must sit here, and let Mr Glynn see my splendour in full blast.
Won't he be pleased?"

"He'll never notice.  Glynn's above hats," Pat maintained; but, nevertheless, he could not
take his own eyes off the dainty grey figure, with the piquant face smiling beneath the brim
of the wide hat, and that fascinating little tip of blue ending the long, grey plume.  His
admiration showed in his eyes, but he felt it his duty to be bracing in words.

"I never thought I should live to see you conceited about clothes!"

"Ye do get these shocks in life.  It's a sad old world!" answered Pixie, and grimaced at him
saucily, as she buttoned her glove.

And, after all, Stephen Glynn never did notice the feather.  For a ten-pound note he could
not have described the next day a single article of Pixie's attire.  He was aware, however,
it was pleasant to walk about with Pixie O'Shaughnessy, and that passers-by seemed to envy
him his post, and he was relieved that she was disfigured by none of the extremes of an ugly
fashion; and, after all, nine men out of ten rarely get beyond this point.

They sallied forth together, bidding Pat sleep all morning so as to be ready to talk all afternoon,
and descended the gaunt stone stairs to the hall.

They walked quietly, but with enjoyment in each other's company.  The usual crowd blocked the
Abbey door, and Stephen and Pixie stood waiting under the statue of the "third great Canning"
for some time, before at last they were escorted to seats in the nave.  The sermon, unfortunately,
they could not hear, but the exquisite service was to both a deep delight.  Remembering the
conversation of the night before, Stephen dreaded lest Pixie should be one of the mistaken
ones who sing persistently through an elaborate choral service, thereby nullifying its effect
for those around.  He was thankful to find that his fears were unnecessary, but once or twice
in an unusually beautiful refrain he imagined that his ear caught the sound of a deep, rich
note--a soft echo of the strain itself, evoked by an irresistible impulse.  He looked inquiringly
at his companion, but her head was bent and the brim of her hat concealed her face.  Her stillness,
her reverence appealed to his heart, for it was easy to see that she was enjoying the music
not as a mere concert, but, above all things, as an accompaniment to the words themselves.
One time, when he glanced at her as she rose from her knees, he surprised a glimmer of tears
in her eyes, and the sight brought a stab to his heart.  Why should she cry?  What was the
reason of the air of repression and strain which from time to time flitted across her face?
If it were Stanor's doing. ...  Stephen frowned, and resolutely turned his attention to the
service.

They came out of the Abbey to the majestic strains of the organ--out of the dim, blurred light
shining shaft-like across the glowing mosaic of gold, and marble, and great jewelled windows,
into the hard, everyday world.  The pavements were crowded with pedestrians hurrying here and
there; restaurants had opened their doors, tobacco merchants and newspaper vendors were hard
at work, and country-bred Pixie stared around in amazed disapproval.  They crossed the crowded
thoroughfares and, led by Stephen, found quiet byways in which it was possible to talk in comparative
comfort alone.

"It was better even than I expected, and that's saying so much!  It does one good to go to
a service like that.  It's so big!"

"The--the Abbey?" queried Stephen vaguely, and Pixie gave a quick denial.

"No.  No!  Not only the building--everything!  There's an atmosphere of peace, and dignity,
and calm.  One gets away from littleness and quarrelling.  It's so sad when people quarrel
about religion, and one sect disputes with another..."

"It is indeed," replied Stephen, sighing.  "The chances of conciliation would be so much greater
if they fought with honey, not with gall. ... The world needs kindness--"

"Oh, it does!  There is such sorrow, such pain!"  Pixie's voice rang suddenly sharp, and a
wave of emotion flitted over her face.  She raised her eyes to his, and said suddenly, in a
voice of melting pathos: "Her face! ...  That girl's face!  All these years I've never forgotten.
... It's lain here!"  She touched her heart with an eloquent finger. "All these years--every
night--I've prayed that they might meet..."  She shook her head with a determined gesture,
as though shaking off a haunting thought.  "I couldn't forget, you see, because--it taught
me ... things I had not understood--!"

"Yes," said Stephen dully.  For his life he could not have said another word.  He waited with
dread to hear the next words.

"But it was worth learning!"  Pixie said bravely.  "I was glad to learn.  Love is such a big,
big thing.  When it is given to you it's a big responsibility.  You must not fail; nothing
in the world must make you fail!"

Stephen said no word.  The questions which had filled his brain for the last five days were
answered now.  There was no more room for doubt. Pixie O'Shaughnessy was ready and waiting
to marry Stanor Vaughan at any time when it pleased him to come home and claim her promise.

CHAPTER TWENTY ONE.

A MUSICAL EVENING.

Pixie had recovered her spirits by the time that the flat was reached, but the invalid was
discovered in a distinctly "grumpy" mood.  Like many enforced stay-at-homes, his unselfishness
bore him gallantly over the point of speeding the parting guests, and expressing sincere good
wishes for their enjoyment.  But the long, long hours spent alone, the contrast between their
lot and his own, the rebellious longing to be up and doing, all these foes preyed upon the
mind, and by the time that the voyagers returned, a cool, martyr-like greeting replaced the
kindliness of the farewell, which was sad, and selfish, and unworthy, but let those suspend
their judgment who have never been tried!

"Really?  Oh!  Quite well, thank you.  Did you really?" ...  The cold, clipped sentences fell
like ice on the listeners' ears, and Pixie, going out of the room, turned a swift glance at
Stephen Glynn, and wrinkled her nose in an expressive grimace.  Somehow or other Stephen felt
his spirits racing upward at sight of that grimace.  There was a suggestion of intimacy about
it, amounting even to confidence: it denoted a camaraderie of spirit which was as flattering
as it was delightful.

Pat, as usual, recovered his good humour at the sight of food, and thoroughly enjoyed the simple
but well-cooked meal, while Pixie and Stephen tactfully avoided the subject of their morning's
excursion. Time enough later on to describe the beauties of that Abbey service!

"Moffatt is going out this afternoon.  A friend is to call for her and bring her back this
evening.  It will be a change for the creature," announced Pixie when the meal was finished,
and, meeting Pat's eye, she added quickly, "I'll make tea."

"What about supper?" queried Pat sternly.  "If there's a meal in the week which I enjoy better
than another it is Sunday night supper. What's going to happen about it to-night?"

"'Deed I don't know.  Don't fuss!  It's beyond me to think two meals ahead.  There's cold meat.
...  I'll rummage up something when it comes to the time."

Pat turned gloomily to his friend.

"You'd better be off, Glynn.  I asked you to stay for the day, but in view of unforeseen circumstances.
...  Pixie evidently puts Moffatt's pleasure before our food."

"I do!" cried Pixie sturdily.

Stephen smiled, his bright, transforming smile, and said quickly--

"I'll stay!  I'd like to, if you will just excuse me one moment while I telephone to my man.
You have a telephone, I think, in the basement?"

Pixie shuddered.

"They have; in an ice-box, where every draught that was ever born whirls around your feet,
and if you speak loud enough, every maid in the place will hear what you say.  It's quite diverting
to listen!"

Stephen went off laughing, and Pixie shook up Pat's pillows, bathed his hands, and kissed him
several times on the tip of his nose, a proceeding which he considered offensive to his dignity,
and then went off to change the crushable velvet skirt for a house dress of her favourite rose
hue--a quaint little garment made in a picturesque style, which had no connection whatever
with the prevailing fashion.  When she returned to the sitting-room she seated herself on the
floor beside the fire, and Pat, now entirely restored to equanimity and a little ashamed of
his previous ill-humour, himself inquired about the morning's experiences. Like all the O'Shaughnessys
he was intensely musical, and during his sojourn in London had taken every opportunity to hear
all the good concerts within reach.  He now wanted to hear about the music in the Abbey, and
especially of the anthem, and at the mention of it Pixie drew a deep sigh of enjoyment.

"Oh, Pat, a boy sang `Oh, for the wings'!  If you could have heard it!-- A clear, clear voice,
so thrillingly sweet, soaring away up to that wonderful roof.  And he sang with such feeling."
...  She began softly humming the air, and Stephen knew then for a certainty whence had come
those rich, soft notes which had come to his ears in the Abbey.

"Sing it, Pixie, sing it!" cried Pat impatiently.  "You promised, and it's one of my favourites.
Go on; I'll accompany!"

