"In Virginia where I was, they raised tobacco, wheat, corn and farm products. I have had a
taste of all the work on the farm, besides of digging and clearing up new ground to increase
the acreage to the farm. We all had task work to do--men, women and boys. We began work on
Monday and worked until Saturday. That day we were allowed to work for ourselves and to garden
or to do extra work. When we could get work, or work on some one else's place, we got a pass
from the overseer to go off the plantation, but to be back by nine o'clock on Saturday night
or when cabin inspection was made. Some time we could earn as much as 50 cents a day, which
we used to buy cakes, candies, or clothes.

"On Saturday each slave was given 10 pounds corn meal, a quart of black strap, 6 pounds of
fat back, 3 pounds of flour and vegetables, all of which were raised on the farm. All of the
slaves hunted or those who wanted, hunted rabbits, opossums or fished. These were our choice
food as we did not get anything special from the overseer.

"Our food was cooked by our mothers or sisters and for those who were not married by the old
women and men assigned for that work.

"Each family was given 3 acres to raise their chickens or vegetables and if a man raised his
own food he was given $10.00 at Christmas time extra, besides his presents.

"In the summer or when warm weather came each slave was given something, the women, linsey
goods or gingham clothes, the men overalls, muslin shirts, top and underclothes, two pair of
shoes, and a straw hat to work in. In the cold weather, we wore woolen clothes, all made at
the sewing cabin.

"My master was named Tom Ashbie, a meaner man was never born in Virginia--brutal, wicked and
hard. He always carried a cowhide with him. If he saw anyone doing something that did not suit
his taste, he would have the slave tied to a tree, man or woman, and then would cowhide the
victim until he got tired, or sometimes, the slave would faint.

"The Ashbie's home was a large stone mansion, with a porch on three sides. Wide halls in the
center up and down stairs, numerous rooms and a stone kitchen built on the back connected with
dining room.

"Mrs. Ashbie was kind and lovely to her slaves when Mr. Ashbie was out. The Ashbies did not
have any children of their own, but they had boys and girls of his own sister and they were
much like him, they had maids or private waiter for the young men if they wanted them.

"I have heard it said by people in authority, Tom Ashbie owned 9000 acres of farm land besides
of wood land. He was a large slave owner having more than 100 slaves on his farm. They were
awakened by blowing of the horn before sunrise by the overseer, started work at sunrise and
worked all day to sundown, with not time to go to the cabin for dinner, you carried your dinner
with you. The slaves were driven at top speed and whipped at the snap of the finger, by the
overseers, we had four overseers on the farm all hired white men.

"I have seen men beaten until they dropped in their tracks or knocked over by clubs, women
stripped down to their waist and cowhided.

"I have heard it said that Tom Ashbie's father went to one of the cabins late at night, the
slaves were having a secret prayer meeting. He heard one slave ask God to change the heart
of his master and deliver him from slavery so that he may enjoy freedom. Before the next day
the man disappeared, no one ever seeing him again; but after that down in the swamp at certain
times of the moon, you could hear the man who prayed in the cabin praying. When old man Ashbie
died, just before he died he told the white Baptist minister, that he had killed Zeek for praying
and that he was going to hell.

"There was a stone building on the farm, it is there today. I saw it this summer while visiting
in Virginia. The old jail, it is now used as a garage. Downstairs there were two rooms, one
where some of the whipping was done, and the other used by the overseer. Upstairs was used
for women and girls. The iron bars have coroded, but you can see where they were. I have never
seen slaves sold on the farm, but I have seen them taken away, and brought there. Several times
I have seen slaves chained taken away and chained when they came.

"No one on the place was taught to read or write. On Sunday the slaves who wanted to worship
would gather at one of the large cabins with one of the overseers present and have their church.
After which the overseer would talk. When communion was given the overseer was paid for staying
there with half of the collection taken up, some time he would get 25¢. No one could read the
Bible. Sandy Jasper, Mr. Ashbie's coachman was the preacher, he would go to the white Baptist
church on Sunday with family and would be better informed because he heard the white preacher.

"Twice each year, after harvest and after New Year's, the slaves would have their protracted
meeting or their revival and after each closing they would baptize in the creek, sometimes
in the winter they would break the ice singing Going to the Water or some other hymn of that
nature. And at each funeral, the Ashbies would attend the service conducted in the cabin there
the deceased was, from there taken to the slave graveyard. A lot dedicated for that purpose,
situated about 3/4 of a mile from cabins near a hill.

"There were a number of slaves on our plantation who ran away, some were captured and sold
to a Georgia trader, others who were never captured. To intimidate the slaves, the overseers
were connected with the patrollers, not only to watch our slaves, but sometimes for the rewards
for other slaves who had run away from other plantations. This feature caused a great deal
of trouble between the whites and blacks. In 1858 two white men were murdered near Warrenton
on the road by colored people, it was never known whether by free people or slaves.

"When work was done the slaves retired to their cabins, some played games, others cooked or
rested or did what they wanted. We did not work on Saturdays unless harvest times, then Saturdays
were days of work. At other times, on Saturdays you were at leisure to do what you wanted.
On Christmas day Mr. Ashbie would call all the slaves together, give them presents, money,
after which they spent the day as they liked. On New Year's day we all were scared, that was
the time for selling, buying and trading slaves. We did not know who was to go or come.

"I do not remember of playing any particular game, my sport was fishing. You see I do not believe
in ghost stories nor voodooism, I have nothing to say. We boys used to take the horns of a
dead cow or bull, cut the end off of it, we could blow it, some having different notes. We
could tell who was blowing and from what plantation.

"When a slave took sick she or he would have to depend on herbs, salves or other remedies prepared
by someone who knew the medicinal value. When a valuable hand took sick one of the overseers
would go to Upper Ville for a doctor."

Maryland [--]-20-37 Rogers

JAMES CALHART JAMES, Ex-slave.
Reference: Personal interview with James Calhart James, ex-slave,
           at his home, 2460 Druid Hill Ave., Baltimore.

"My father's name was Franklin Pearce Randolph of Virginia, a descendant of the Randolphs of
Virginia who migrated to South Carolina and located near Fort Sumter, the fort that was surrendered
to the Confederates in 1851 or the beginning of the Civil War. My mother's name was Lottie
Virginia James, daughter of an Indian and a slave woman, born on the Rapidan River in Virginia
about 1823 or 24, I do not know which; she was a woman of fine features and very light in complexion
with beautiful, long black hair. She was purchased by her master and taken to South Carolina
when about 15 years old. She was the private maid of Mrs. Randolph until she died and then
continued as housekeeper for her master, while there and in that capacity I was born on the
Randolph's plantation August 23, 1846. I was a half brother to the children of the Randolphs,
four in number. After I was born mother and I lived in the servants' quarters of the big house
enjoying many pleasures that the other slaves did not: eating and sleeping in the big house,
playing and associating with my half-brothers and sisters.

"As for my ancestors I have no recollection of them, the history of the Randolphs in Virginia
is my background.

"My father told mother when I became of age, he was going to free me, send me north to be educated,
but instead I was emancipated. During my slave days my father gave me money and good clothes
to wear. I bought toys and games.

"My clothes were good both winter and summer and according to the weather.

"My master was my father; he was kind to me but hard on the field hands who worked in the rice
fields. My mistress died before I was born. There were 3 girls and one boy, they treated me
fairly good--at first or when I was small or until they realised their father was my father,
then they hated me. We lived in a large white frame house containing about 15 rooms with every
luxury of that day, my father being very rich.

"I have heard the Randolph plantation contained about 4000 acres and about 300 slaves. We had
white overseers on the plantation, they worked hard producing rice on a very large scale, and
late and early. I know they were severely punished, especially for not producing the amount
of work assigned them or for things that the overseers thought they should be punished for.

"We had a jail over the rice barn where the slaves were confined, especially on Sundays, as
punishment for things done during the week.

"I could read and write when I was 12 years old. I was taught by. the teacher who was the governess
for the Randolph children. Mother could also read and write. There was no church on the plantation;
the slaves attended church on the next plantation, where the owner had a large slave church,
he was a Baptist preacher, I attended the white church with the Randolph children. I was generally
known and called Jim Randolph. I was baptised by the white Baptist minister and christened
by a Methodist minister.

"There was little trouble between the white and blacks, you see I was one of the children of
the house, I never came in contact much with other slaves. I was told that the slaves had a
drink that was made of corn and rice which they drank. The overseers sometimes themselves drank
it very freely. On holidays and Sundays the slaves had their times, and I never knew any difference
as I was treated well by my father and did not associate with the other slaves.

"In the year of 1865, I left South Carolina, went to Washington, entered Howard University
1868, graduated in 1873, taught schools in Virginia, North Carolina and Maryland, retired 1910.
Since then I have been connected with A.M.E. educational board. Now I am home with my granddaughter,
a life well spent.

"One of the songs sung by the slaves on the plantation I can remember a part of it. They sang
it with great feeling of happiness----

  Oh where shall we go when de great day comes
  An' de blowing of de trumpets and de bangins of de drums
  When General Sherman comes.
  No more rice and cotton fields
  We will hear no more crying
  Old master will be sighing.

"I can't remember the tune, people sang it according to their own tune."

Maryland Sept. 23, 1937 Rogers

MARY MORIAH ANNE SUSANNA JAMES, Ex-slave.
Reference: Personal interview with Mary James, ex-slave,
           Sept. 23, 1937, at her home, 618 Haw St., Baltimore, Md.

"My father's name was Caleb Harris James, and my mother's name was Mary Moriah. Both of them
were owned by Silas Thornton Randorph, a distant relative of Patrick Henry. I have seen the
picture of Patrick Henry many a time in the home place on the library wall. I had three sisters
and two brothers. Two of my sisters were sold to a slave dealer from Georgia, one died in 1870.
One brother ran away and the other joined the Union Army; he died in the Soldiers' Home in
Washington in 1932 at the age of 84.

"How let me ask you, who told you about me? I knew that a stranger was coming, my nose has
been itching for several days. How about my home life in Virginia, we lived on the James River
in Virginia, on a farm containing more than 8,000 acres, fronting 3-1/2 miles on the river,
with a landing where boats used to come to load tobacco and unload goods for the farm.

"The quarters where we lived on the plantation called Randolph Manor were built like horse
stables that you see on race tracks; they were 1-1/2 story high, about 25 feet wide, and about
75 feet long, with windows in the sides of the roofs. A long shelter on the front and at the
rear. In front, people would have benches to sit on, and on the back were nails to hang pots
and pans. Each family would have rooms according to the size of the family. There were 8 such
houses, 6 for families and one for the girls and the other for the boys. In the quarters we
had furniture made by the overseer and colored carpenters; they would make the tables, benches
and beds for everybody. Our beds were ticking filled with straw and covers made of anything
we could get.

"I have a faint recollection of my grandparents. My grandfather was sold to a man in South
Carolina, to work in the rice field. Grandmother drowned herself in the river when she heard
that grand-pap was going away. I was told that grandpap was sold because he got religious and
prayed that God would set him and grandma free.

"When I was ten years old I was put to work on the farm with other children, picking weeds,
stone up and tobacco worms and to do other work. We all got new shoes for Christmas, a dress
and $2.50 for Christmas or suits of clothes. We spent our money at Mr. Randorph's store for
things that we wanted, but was punished if the money was spent at the county seat at other stores.

"We were allowed fat meat, corn meal, black molasses and vegetables, corn and grain to roast
for coffee. Mother cooked my food after stopping work on the farm for the day, I never ate
possum. We would catch rabbits in guns or traps and as we lived on the rivers, we ate any kind
of fish we caught. The men and everybody would go fishing after work. Each family had a garden,
we raised what we wanted.

"As near as I can recall, we had about 150 sheep on the farm, producing our own wool. The old
women weaved clothes; we had woolen clothes in the winter and cotton clothes in the summer.
On Sunday we wore the clothes given to us at Christmas time and shoes likewise.

"I was married on the farm 1863 and married my same husband by a Baptist preacher in 1870 as
I was told I had not been legally married. I was married in the dress given to me at Christmas
of 1862. I did not get one in 1863.

"Old Silas Randolph was a mean man to his slaves, especially when drunk. He and the overseer
would always be together, each of whom carried a whip, and upon the least provocation would
whip his slaves. My mistress was not as mean as my master, but she was mean There was only
one son in the Randolph family. He went to a military school somewhere in Virginia. I don't
know the name. He was captured by the Union soldiers. I never saw him until after the war,
when he came home with one arm.

"The overseer lived on the farm. He was the brother of Mrs. Randolph. He would whip men and
women and children if he thought they were not working fast.

"The plantation house was a large brick house over-looking the river from a hill, a porch on
three sides, two-stories and attic. In the attic slept the house servants and coachman. We
did not come in contact with the white people very much. Our place was away from the village.

"There were 8,000 acres to the plantation, with more than 150 slaves on it. I do not know the
time slaves woke up, but everybody was at work at sunrise and worked to sundown. The slaves
were whipped for not working fast or anything that suited the fancy of the master or overseer.

"I have seen slaves sold on the farm and I have seen slaves brought to the farm. The slaves
were brought up the river in boats and unloaded at the landing, some crying and some seem to
be happy.

"No one was taught to read or write. There was no church on the farm. No one was allowed to
read the Bible or anything else.

"I have heard it said that the Randolph's lost more slaves by running away than anyone in the
county. The patrollers were many in the county; they would whip any colored person caught off
the place after night. Whenever a man wanted to run away he would go with someone else, either
from the farm or from some other farm, hiding in the swamps or along the river, making their
way to some place where they thought would be safe, sometimes hiding on trains leaving Virginia.

"The slaves, after going to their quarters, cooked, rested or did what they wanted. Saturdays
was no different from Monday.

"On Christmas morning all the slaves would go up to the porch, get the $2.50, shoes and clothes,
go back to the cabins and do what they wanted.

"On New Year's Day everybody was scared as that was the day that slaves were taken away or
brought to the farm.

"You have asked about stories, I will tell you one I know. It is true.

"During the war one day some Union soldiers came to the farm looking for Rebels. There were
a number of them in the woods near the landing; they had come across the river in boats. At
night while the Union soldiers were at the landing, they were fired on by the Rebels. The Union
soldiers went after them, killed ten, caught I think six and some were drowned in the river.
Among the six was the overseer, and from that night people have heard shooting and seen soldiers.
One night many years after the Civil War, while visiting a friend who now lives within 500
feet from the landing where the fighting took place, there appeared some soldiers carrying
a man out of the woods whom I recognized as being the overseer. He had been seen hundreds of
times by other people. White people will tell you the same thing. I will tell you for sure
this is true.

"You must excuse me I wanted to see some friends this evening."

Maryland 9/14/37 Guthrie

PHILLIP JOHNSON, An Ex-Slave. Ref: Phillip Johnson, R.F.D. Poolesville, Md.

The subject of this sketch is a pure blooded Negro, whose kinky hair is now white, likewise
his scraggy beard. He is of medium size and somewhat stooped with age, but still active enough
to plant and tend a patch of corn and the chores about his little place at Sugarlands. His
home is a small cabin with one or two rooms upstairs and three down, including the kitchen
which is a leanto. The cabin is in great disrepair.

Phillip John is above the average in intelligence, has some education and is quite well versed
in the Holy Scriptures, having been for many years a Methodist preacher among his people. He
uses fairly good English and freely talks in answer to questions. Without giving the questions
put to him by this writer, his remarks given in the first person and as near his own idiom
are as follows:

"I'll be ninety years old next December. I dunno the day. My Missis had the colored folks ages
written in a book but it was destroyed when the Confederate soldiers came through. But she
had a son born two or three months younger than me and she remember that I was born in December,
1847, but she had forgot the day of the month.

"I was born down on the river bottom about four miles below Edwards' Ferry, on the Eight Mile
Level, between Edwards' Ferry and Seneca. I belonged to ole Doctah White. He owned a lot o'
lan down on de bottom. I dunno his first name. Everybody called him Doctah White. Yes, he was
related to Doctah Elijah White. All the Whites in Montgomery County is related. Yes sah, Doctah
White was good to his slaves. Yes sah, he had many slaves. I dunno how many. My Missis took
me away from de bottom when I was a little boy, 'cause de overseer he was so cruel to me. Yes
sah he was mean. I promised him a killin if ever I got big enough.

"We all liked the Missis. Everybody in dem days used to ride horseback. She would come ridin
her horse down to de bottom with a great big basket of biscuits. We thought they were fine.
We all glad to see de Missis a comin. We always had plenty to eat, such as it was. We had coarse
food but there was plenty of it.

"The white folks made our clothes for us. They made linsey for the woman and woolen cloth for
de men. They gave clothes sufficient to keep em warm. The men had wool clothes with brass buttons
that had shanks on em. They looked good when they were new. They had better clothes then than
most of us have now.

"They raised mostly corn an oats an wheat down on de river bottom in those days. They didn't
raise tobacco. But I've heard say that they used to raise it long before I was born. They cut
grain with cradles in dem days. They had a lot 'o men and would slay a lot 'o wheat in a day.
It was pretty work to see four or five cradlers in a field and others following them raking
the wheat in bunches and others following binding them in bundles. The first reapers that came
were called Dorsey reapers. They cut the grain and bunched it. It was then bound by hand.

"When my Missis took me away from the river bottom I lived in Poolesville where the Kohlhoss
home and garage is. I worked around the house and garden. I remember when the Yankee and Confederate
soldiers both came to Poolesville. Capn Sam White (son of the doctor) he join the Confederate
in Virginia. He come home and say he goin to take me along back with him for to serve him.
But the Yankees came and he left very sudden and leave me behind. I was glad I didn't have
to go with him. I saw all that fightin around Poolesville. I used to like to watch em fightin.
I saw a Yankee soldier shoot a Confederate and kill him. He raised his gun twice to shoot but
he kept dodgin around the house an he didn' want to shoot when he might hit someone else. When
he ran from the house he shot him.

"Yes sah, them Confederates done more things around here than the Yankees did. I remember once
during the war they came to town. It was Sunday morning an I was sittin in the gallery of the
ole brick Methodist church. One of them came to de door and he pointed his pistol right at
that preacher's head. The gallery had an outside stairs then. I ran to de door to go down de
stairs but there was another un there pointing his gun and they say don't nobody leave dis
building. The others they was a cleanin up all the hosses and wagons round the church. The
one who was guarding de stairs, he kept a lookin to see if dey was done cleaning up de hosses,
and when he wasn't watching I slip half way down de stairs, an when he turn his back I jump
down and run. When he looks he jus laugh.

"My father he lived to be eighty nine. He died right here in this house and he's buried over
by the church. His name was Sam. They called my mother Willie Ann. She died when I was small.
I had three brothers and one sister. My father married again and had seven or eight other children.

"I've had eleven children; five livin, six dead. I've been preaching for forty years and I
have seen many souls saved. I don't preach regular anymore but once in a while I do. I have
preached in all these little churches around here. I preached six years at Sugar Loaf Mountain.
The presidin elder he wants me to go there. The man that had left there jus tore that church
up. I went up there one Sunday and I didn't see anything that I could do. I think I'm not able
for this. I said they needs a more experienced preacher than me. But the presidin elder keeps
after me to go there and I says, well, I go for one year. Next thing it was the same thing.
I stays on another year and so on for six years. When I left there that church was in pretty
good shape.

"I think preaching the gospel is the greatest work in the world. But folks don't seem to take
the interest in church that they used to."

Maryland Sept. 30, 1937 Rogers

GEORGE JONES, Ex-slave. My father's name was Henry and mother's Jane; brothers Dave, Joe, Henry,
John and sisters Annie and Josephine. I know my father and mother were slaves, but I do not
recall to whom they belonged. I remember my grandparents.

"My father used to tell me how he would hide in the hay stacks at night, because he was whipped
and treated badly by his master who was rough and hard-boiled on his slaves. Many a time the
owner of the slaves and farm would come to the cabins late at night to catch the slaves in
their dingy little hovels, which were constructed in cabin fashion and of stone and logs with
their typical windows and rooms of one room up and one down with a window in each, the fireplaces
built to heat and cook for occupants.

"The farm was like all other farms in Frederick County, raising grain, such as corn, wheat
and fruit and on which work was seasonable, depending upon the weather, some seasons producing
more and some less. When the season was good for the crop and crops plentiful, we had a little
money as the plantation owner gave us some to spend.

"When hunting came, especially in the fall and winter, the weather was cold, I have often heard
say father speak of rabbit, opossum and coon hunting and his dogs. You know in Frederick County
there are plenty of woods, streams and places to hunt, giving homes and hiding places for such
game.

"We dressed to meet the weather condition and wore shoes to suit rough traveling through woods
and up and down the hills of the country.

"In my boyhood days, my father never spoke much of my master, only in the term I have expressed
before, or the children, church, the poor white people in the neighborhood or the farm, their
mode of living, social condition. I will say this in conclusion, the white people of Frederick
County as a whole were kind towards the colored people and are today, very little race friction
one way or the other."

Ellen B. Warfield May 18, 1937

ALICE LEWIS.

(Alice Lewis, ex-slave, 84, years old, in charge of sewing-room at Provident Hospital (Negro),
Baltimore. Tall, slender, erect, her head crowned by abundant snow white wool, with a fine
carriage and an air of poise mud self respect good to behold, Alice belies her 84 years.)

"Yes'm, I was born in slavery, I don't look it, but I was! Way down in Wilkes County, Georgia,
nigh to a little town named Washington which ain't so far from Augusta. My pappy, he belong
to the Alexanders, and my mammy, she belong to the Wakefiel' plantation and we all live with
the Wakefiel's. No ma'am, none of the Wakefiel' niggers ever run away. They was too well off!
They knew who they friends was! My white folkses was good to their niggers! Them was the days
when we had good food and it didn't cost nothing--chickens and hogs and garden truck. Saturdays
was the day we got our 'lowance for the week, and lemme tell you, they didn't stint us none.
The best in the land was what we had, jest what the white folkses had.

"Clothes? yes'm. We had two suits of clothes, a winter suit and a summer suit and two pairs
of shoes, a winter pair and a summer pair. Yes'm, my mammy, she spin the cotton, yes'm picked
right on the plantation, yes'm, cotton picking was fun, believe me! As I was saying, Mammy
she spin and she wears the cloth, and she cut it out and she make our clothes. That's where
I git my taste to sew, I reckon. When I first come to Baltimore, I done dressmaking, 'deed
I did. I sewed for the best fam'lies in this yere town. I sewed for the Howards and the Slingluffs
and the Jenkinses. Jest the other day, I met Miss C'milla down town and she say. 'Alice, ain'
this you? and I say, 'Law me, Miss C'milla', and 'she say, 'Alice, why don' you come to see
Mother? She ain' been so well--she love to see you....'

"Well, as I was a saying, we didn't work so hard, them days. We got up early, 'cause the fires
had to be lighted to make the house warm for the white folks, but in them days, dinner was
in the middle of the day--the quality had theirs at twelve o'clock--and they had a light supper
at five and when we was through, we was through, and free to go the quarters and set around
and smoke a pipe and rest.

"Yes'm they taught us to read and write. Sunday afternoons, my young mistresses used to teach
the pickaninnies to read the Bible. Yes'm we was free to go to see the niggers on other plantations
but we had to have a pass an' we was checked in an' out. No'm, I ain't never seen no slaves
sold, nor none in chains, and I ain't never seen no Ku Kluxers.

"I live with the Wakefiel's till I was 'leven and then Marse Wakefiel' give me to my young
mistress when she married and went to North Carolina to live. And 'twas in North Carolina that
I seed Sherman, 'deed I did! I seed Sherman and his sojers, gathering up all the hogs and all
the hosses, and all the cows and all the little cullud chillen. Them was drefful days! These
is drefful days, too. Old man Satan, he sure am on earth now.

"Yes'm, I believes in ghos'ses. I ain't never seed 'em but I is feel 'em. I live once in a
house where a man was killed. I lie in my bed and they close in on me! No'm, I ain't afraid.
The landlord say when I move out, 'you is stay there longer than anybody I ever had.' 'Nother
house I live in (this was in North Carolina too), it had been a gamblin' house and it had hants.
On rainy nights, I'd lie awake and hear "drip, drip ... drip, drip...." What was that? Why,
that was the blood a dripping ... Why on rainy night? Why, on rainy nights, the blood gets
a little fresh...!"

Maryland Sept. 4, 1937 Rogers

PERRY LEWIS, Ex-slave.
Reference: Personal interview with Perry Lewis, ex-slave,
           at his home, 1124 E. Lexington St., Baltimore.

"I was born on Kent Island, Md. about 86 years ago. My father's name was Henry and mother's
Louise. I had one brother John, who was killed in the Civil War at the Deep Bottom, one sister
as I can remember. My father was a freeman and my mother a slave, owned by Thomas Tolson, who
owned a small farm on which I was born in a log cabin, with two rooms, one up and one down.

"As you know the mother was the owner of the children that she brought into the world. Mother
being a slave made me a slave. She cooked and worked on the farm, ate whatever was in the farmhouse
and did her share of work to keep and maintain the Tolsons. They being poor, not having a large
place or a number of slaves to increase their wealth, made them little above the free colored
people and with no knowledge, they could not teach me or any one else to read.

"You know the Eastern Shore of Maryland was in the most productive slave territory and where
farming was done on a large scale; and in that part of Maryland where there were many poor
people and many of whom were employed as overseers, you naturally heard of patrollers and we
had them and many of them. I have heard that patrollers were on Kent Island and the colored
people would go out in the country on the roads, create a disturbance to attract the patrollers'
attention. They would tie ropes and grape vines across the roads, so when the patrollers would
come to the scene of the disturbance on horseback and at full tilt, they would be throwing
those who would come in contact with the rope or vine off the horse; sometimes badly injuring
the riders. This would create hatred between the slaves, the free people, the patrollers and
other white people who were concerned.

"In my childhood days I played marbles, this was the only game I remember playing. As I was
on a small farm, we did not come in contact much with other children, and heard no children's
songs. I therefore do not recall the songs we sang.

"I do not remember being sick but I have heard mother say, when she or her children were sick,
the white doctor who attended the Tolsons treated us and the only herbs I can recall were life-everlasting
boneset and woodditney, from each of which a tea could be made.

"This is about all I can recall."

Maryland Sept. 7, 1937 Rogers

RICHARD MACKS, Ex-slave.
Reference: Personal interview with Richard Macks, ex-slave,
           at his home, 541 W. Biddle St., Baltimore.

"I was born in Charles County in Southern Maryland in the year of 1844. My father's name was
William (Bill) and Mother's Harriet Mack, both of whom were born and reared in Charles County--the
county that James Wilkes Booth took refuge in after the assassination of President Lincoln
in 1865. I had one sister named Jenny and no brothers: let me say right here it was God's blessing
I did not. Near Bryantown, a county center prior to the Civil War as a market for tobacco,
grain and market for slaves.

"In Bryantown there were several stores, two or three taverns or inns which were well known
in their days for their hospitality to their guests and arrangements to house slaves. There
were two inns both of which had long sheds, strongly built with cells downstairs for men and
a large room above for women. At night the slave traders would bring their charges to the inns,
pay for their meals, which were served on a long table in the shed, then afterwards, they were
locked up for the night.

"I lived with my mother, father and sister in a log cabin built of log and mud, having two
rooms; one with a dirt floor and the other above, each room having two windows, but no glass.
On a large farm or plantation owned by an old maid by the name of Sally McPherson on McPherson
Farm.

"As a small boy and later on, until I was emancipated, I worked on the farm doing farm work,
principally in the tobacco fields and in the woods cutting timber and firewood. I slept on
a home-made bed or bunk, while my mother and sister slept in a bed made by father on which
they had a mattress made by themselves and filled with straw, while dad slept on a bench beside
the bed and that he used in the day as a work bench, mending shoes for the slaves and others.
I have seen mother going to the fields each day like other slaves to do her part of the farming.
I being considered as one of the household employees, my work was both in the field and around
the stable, giving me an opportunity to meet people some of whom gave me a few pennies. By
this method I earned some money which I gave to my mother. I once found a gold dollar, that
was the first dollar I ever had in my life.

"We had nothing to eat but corn bread baked in ashes, fat back and vegetables raised on the
farm; no ham or any other choice meats; and fish we caught out of the creeks and streams.

"My father had some very fine dogs; we hunted coons, rabbits and opossum. Our best dog was
named Ruler, he would take your hat off. If my father said: 'Ruler, take his hat off!', he
would jump up and grab your hat.

