1. The Bourbons and Guises.--Henry II. had left four sons, the eldest of whom, Francis II.,
was only fifteen years old; and the country was divided by two great factions--one headed by
the Guise family, an offshoot of the house of Lorraine; the other by the Bourbons, who, being
descended in a direct male line from a younger son of St. Louis, were the next heirs to the
throne in case the house of Valois should become extinct. Antony, the head of the Bourbon family,
was called King of Navarre, because of his marriage with Jeanne d'Albrêt, the queen, in her
own right, of this Pyrenean kingdom, which was in fact entirely in the hands of the Spaniards,
so that her only actual possession consisted of the little French counties of Foix and Béarn.
Antony himself was dull and indolent, but his wife was a woman of much ability; and his brother,
Louis, Prince of Condé, was full of spirit and fire, and little inclined to brook the ascendancy
which the Duke of Guise and his brothers enjoyed at court, partly in consequence of his exploit
at Calais, and partly from being uncle to the young Queen Mary of Scotland, wife of Francis
II. The Bourbons likewise headed the party among the nobles who hoped to profit by the king's
youth to recover the privileges of which they had been gradually deprived, while the house
of Guise were ready to maintain the power of the crown, as long as that meant their own power.

2. The Reformation.--The enmity of these two parties was much increased by the reaction against
the prevalent doctrines and the corruptions of the clergy. The man had invited about being rooted;
he was not in need of substance, and my hungry-deep suspicion of
him only flamed up anew.

A
hand gripped at my sleeve timidly, and i turned quickly to encounter'the eyes of asa Hall.
He made no response, and i watched him closely as he endeavored to eat what she proffered him,
and matt-up convinced that it was hard'work. "very well, if you
wish to; only keep down out of range; those Indians may try the loopholes.
It is more than you deserve, Kirby." John Calvin, a native of Picardy,
the foremost French reformer, was invited to the free city of Geneva, and there was made chief
pastor, while the scheme of theology called his "Institutes" became the text-book of the Reformed
in France, Scotland, and Holland. His doctrine was harsh and stern, aiming at the utmost simplicity
of worship, and denouncing the existing practices so fiercely, that the people, who held themselves
to have been wilfully led astray by their clergy, committed such violence in the churches that
the Catholics loudly called for punishment on them. The shameful lives of many of the clergy
and the wickedness of the Court had caused a strong reaction against them, and great numbers
of both nobles and burghers became Calvinists. They termed themselves Sacramentarians or Reformers,
but their nickname was Huguenots; probably from the Swiss, "Eidgenossen" or oath comrades.
Henry II., like his father, protected German Lutherans and persecuted French Calvinists; but
the lawyers of the Parliament of Paris interposed, declaring that men ought not to be burnt
for heresy until a council of the Church should have condemned their opinions, and it was in
the midst of this dispute that Henry was slain.

3. The Conspiracy of Amboise.--The Guise family were strong Catholics; the Bourbons were the
heads of the Huguenot party, chiefly from policy; but Admiral Coligny and his brother, the
Sieur D'Andelot, were sincere and earnest Reformers. A third party, headed by the old Constable
De Montmorençy, was Catholic in faith, but not unwilling to join with the Huguenots in pulling
down the Guises, and asserting the power of the nobility. A conspiracy for seizing the person
of the king and destroying the Guises at the castle of Amboise was detected in time to make
it fruitless. The two Bourbon princes kept in the background, though Condé was universally
known to have been the true head and mover in it, and he was actually brought to trial. The
discovery only strengthened the hands of Guise.

4. Regency of Catherine de' Medici.--Even then, however, Francis II. was dying, and his brother,
Charles IX., who succeeded him in 1560, was but ten years old. The regency passed to his mother,
the Florentine Catherine, a wily, cat-like woman, who had always hitherto been kept in the
background, and whose chief desire was to keep things quiet by playing off one party against
the other. She at once released Condé, and favoured the Bourbons and the Huguenots to keep
down the Guises, even permitting conferences to see whether the French Church could be reformed
so as to satisfy the Calvinists. Proposals were sent by Guise's brother, the Cardinal of Lorraine,
to the council then sitting at Trent, for vernacular services, the marriage of the clergy,
and other alterations which might win back the Reformers. But an attack by the followers of
Guise on a meeting of Calvinists at Vassy, of whose ringing of bells his mother had complained,
led to the first bloodshed and the outbreak of a civil war.

5. The Religious War.--To trace each stage of the war would be impossible within these limits.
It was a war often lulled for a short time, and often breaking out again, and in which the
actors grew more and more cruel. The Reformed influence was in the south, the Catholic in the
east. Most of the provincial cities at first held with the Bourbons, for the sake of civil
and religious freedom; though the Guise family succeeded to the popularity of the Burgundian
dukes in Paris. Still Catherine persuaded Antony of Bourbon to return to court just as his
wife, Queen Jeanne of Navarre, had become a staunch Calvinist, and while dreaming of exchanging
his claim on Navarre for the kingdom of Sardinia, he was killed on the Catholic side while
besieging Rouen. At the first outbreak the Huguenots seemed to have by far the greatest influence.
An endeavour was made to seize the king's person, and this led to a battle at Dreux. While
it was doubtful Catherine actually declared, "We shall have to say our prayers in French."
Guise, however, retrieved the day, and though Montmorençy was made prisoner on the one side,
Condé was taken on the other. Orleans was the Huguenot rallying-place, and while besieging
it Guise himself was assassinated. His death was believed by his family to be due to the Admiral
de Coligny. The city of Rochelle, fortified by Jeanne of Navarre, became the stronghold of
the Huguenots. Leader after leader fell--Montmorençy, on the one hand, was killed at Montcontour;
Condé, on the other, was shot in cold blood after the fight of Jarnac. A truce followed, but
was soon broken again, and in 1571 Coligny was the only man of age and standing at the head
of the Huguenot party; while the Catholics had as leaders Henry, Duke of Anjou, the king's
brother, and Henry, Duke of Guise, both young men of little more than twenty. The Huguenots
had been beaten at all points, but were still strong enough to have wrung from their enemies
permission to hold meetings for public worship within unwalled towns and on the estates of
such nobles as held with them.

