"I shall embrace little Alanik for you, little Sylvest," and Armel added again, "and yet I
would have liked to hear the pretty stories of the traveler!"

Another man of Joel's family said to his expiring kinsman:

"I was a friend of Houarne of the tribe of Morlech, our neighbor. He was killed defenceless,
while asleep, a short time ago. Tell him, Armel, that Daoulas, his murderer, was discovered,
was tried and condemned by the druids of Karnak and his sacrifice will soon take place. Houarne
will be pleased to learn of Daoulas' punishment."

Armel signified that he would convey the message to Houarne.

Stumpy, who, not through wickedness but intemperate language, was the cause of Armel's death,
also drew near with a message to the one about to depart, and said:

"You know that at the eighth face of this month's moon old Mark, who lives near Glen'han was
taken ill; the angel of death told him also to prepare for a speedy departure. Old Mark was
not ready. He wished to assist at the wedding of his daughter's daughter. Not being ready to
go, old Mark bethought him of some one who might be ready to go in his place and that would
satisfy the angel of death. He asked the druid, his physician, if he knew of some 'substitute.'
The druid answered him that Gigel of Nouaren, a member of our tribe, would be available, that
he might consent to depart in the place of old Mark, and that he might be induced to do so
both out of kindness to Mark and to render himself agreeable to the gods, who are always pleased
at the sight of such sacrifices. Gigel consented freely. Old Mark made him a present of ten
pieces of silver with the stamp of a horse's head, which Gigel distributed among his friends
before departing. He then cheerfully emptied his last cup and bared his breast to the sacred
knife amid the chants of the bards. The angel of death accepted the substitute. Old Mark attended
the wedding of his daughter's daughter, and to-day he is in good health--"

"Do you mean to say that you are willing to depart in my stead, Stumpy?" asked the dying warrior.
"I fear it is now too late--"

"No, no; I am not ready to depart in your stead," Stumpy hastened to answer. "I only wish to
request you to return to Gigel three pieces of silver that I owed him; I could not repay him
sooner. I feared Gigel might come and demand his money by moonlight in the shape of some demon."
Saying which Stumpy rummaged in his lamb-skin bag, took out three pieces with the stamp of
a horse's head, and placed them in the pocket of Armel's breeches.

"I shall hand your three pieces of silver to Gigel," said Armel in a voice now hardly audible;
and for a last time he murmured at Julyan's ear: "And yet ... I would ... have liked ... to
hear ... the pretty stories ... of ... the traveler."

"Be at ease, brother Armel," Julyan answered him; "I shall attentively listen to the pretty
stories so that I may remember them well; and to-morrow ... I shall depart and tell them to
you.... I would weary here without you.... We swore brotherhood to each other, and never to
be separated; I shall follow you and continue to live yonder in your company."

"Truly ... you will come?" said the dying youth, whom the promise seemed to render happy; "will
you come ... to-morrow?"

"To-morrow, by Hesus.... I swear to you, Armel, I shall come."

The eyes of the whole family turned to Julyan at hearing the promise, and looked lovingly upon
him. The wounded youth seemed the most pleased of all, and with his last breath said:

"So long, then, brother Julyan ... listen attentively ... to the stories.... And now ... farewell
... farewell ... to all of you of our tribe," and Armel sought to suit the motion of his hands
to his words.

As loving relatives and friends crowd around one of their own when he is about to depart on
a long journey, during which he will meet people of whom they all preserve a cherished remembrance,
each now pressed the hand of Armel and gave him some tender commission for those of their tribe
whom he was about to meet again.

After Armel was dead, Joel closed the youth's eyes and had him taken to the altar of grey stones,
above which stood the copper bowl with the seven twigs of mistletoe.

The body was then covered with oak branches taken from the altar, so that, instead of the corpse,
only a heap of verdure met the eye, with Julyan seated close to it.

Finally, the head of the family filled the large cup up to the brim, moistened his lips in
it and said to the stranger: "May Armel's journey be a happy one; he has ever been good and
just; may he traverse under the guidance of Teutates the marvelous regions and countries that
lie beyond the grave which none of us has yet traveled over, and which all of us will yet see.
May Armel meet again those whom we have loved, and let him assure them that we love them still!"

The cup went around; the women and young girls expressed their good wishes to Armel on his
journey; the remains of the supper were removed; and all gathered at the hearth, impatient
to hear the promised stories told by the stranger.

CHAPTER IV.

THE STORY OF ALBREGE.

"Is it a story that you want of me?" asked the unknown guest turning to Joel, and seeing the
eyes of all fixed upon himself.

"One story?" cried Joel. "Tell us twenty, a hundred! You must have seen so much! so many countries!
so many peoples! One story only? Ah, by the good Ormi, you shall not be let off with only one
story, friend guest!"

"Oh, no!" cried the family in chorus and with set determination. "Oh, no! We must have more
than one!"

"And yet," observed the stranger with a pensive and severe mien, "there is more serious work
in hand than to tell and listen to frivolous stories."

"I understand not what you mean," said Joel no less taken back than his family; all turned
their eyes upon the stranger in silent amazement.

"No, you do not understand me," replied the stranger sadly. "Nevertheless, I shall keep my
promise--the thing promised is a thing done;" and pointing to Julyan who had remained at the
other end of the hall near the oak-covered body of Armel he added: "We must see to it that
that young man has something to tell his brother when he joins him beyond."

"Proceed, guest, proceed with your story," answered Julyan, without raising his head from his
hands; "proceed with your story; I shall not lose a word.... Armel shall hear it just as you
tell it."

"Two years ago," said the stranger, beginning his story, "while traveling among the Gauls who
inhabit the borders of the Rhine, I happened one day to be at Strasburg. I had gone out of
the town for a walk along the river bank. Presently I saw a large crowd of people moving in
the direction of where I stood. They were following a man and woman, both young and both handsome,
who carried on a buckler, that they held by the edges, a little baby not more than three or
four months old. The man looked restless and somber; the woman pale and calm. Both stopped
at the river's bank, at a spot where the stream runs especially rapid. The crowd also stopped.
I drew near and inquired who the man and woman were. 'The man's name is Vindorix, the woman's
Albrege; they are man and wife,' was the answer I received. I then saw Vindorix, whose countenance
waxed more and more somber, approach his wife and say to her:

"'This is the time.'

"'Do you wish it?' asked Albrege. 'Do you wish it?'

"'Yes,' answered the husband; 'I doubt--I want to be certain.'

"'Then, be it so,' said she.

"Thereupon, himself taking the buckler where the little child lay, smiling and stretching out
its chubby arms to him, Vindorix walked into the river up to his waist, raised the buckler
and child for a moment over his head, and looked back a last time towards his wife, as if to
threaten her with what he was about to do. With her forehead high and a steady countenance,
Albrege remained erect at the river bank, motionless like a statue, her arms crossed upon her
bosom. When her husband now turned to her she stretched out her right hand towards him as if
to say:

"'Do it!'

"At that moment a shudder ran over the crowd. Vindorix deposited upon the stream the buckler
on which lay the child, and in that frail craft left the infant to the mercy of the eddies."

"Oh, the wicked man!" cried Mamm' Margarid deeply moved by the story as were the other hearers.
"And his wife!... his wife ... who remained on the bank?--"

"But what was the reason of such a barbarity, friend guest?" asked Henory, the young wife of
Guilhern embracing her two children, little Sylvest and little Syomara, both of whom she took
on her knees as if fearing to see them exposed to a similar danger.

With a gesture the stranger put an end to the interrogatories, and proceeded:

"The stream had barely carried away the buckler on which the child lay, than the father raised
both his trembling hands to heaven as if to invoke the gods. He followed the course of the
buckler with sullen anxiety, leaning, despite himself, to the right when the buckler dipped
to the right, and to the left when the buckler dipped on that side. The mother, on the contrary,
her arms crossed over her bosom, followed the buckler with firm eyes, and as tranquil as if
she had nothing to fear for her child."

"Nothing to fear!" cried Guilhern. "To see her child thus exposed to almost certain death ...
it is bound to go under...."

"That must have been an unnatural mother," cried Henory.

"And not one man in all that crowd to jump into the water and save the child!" observed Julyan
thinking of his friend. "Oh, that will surely anger the heart of Armel, when I tell him that."

"But do not interrupt every instant!" cried Joel. "Proceed, my guest; may Teutates, who presides
over all journeys made in this world and in the others, guard the poor little thing!"

"Twice," the stranger proceeded, "the buckler threatened to be swallowed up by the eddies of
the rapid stream. Of all present, only the mother moved not a muscle. Presently the buckler
was seen riding the waters like an airy skiff and peacefully following the course of the stream
beyond the rapids. Immediately the crowd cried, beating their hands:

"'The boat! The boat!'

"Two men ran down the bank, pushed off a boat, and swiftly plying their oars, quickly reached
the buckler, and took it up from the water together with the child that had fallen asleep--"

"Thanks to the gods! The child is saved!" exclaimed almost in chorus the family of Joel, as
if delivered from a painful apprehension.

Perceiving that he was about to be again interrupted by fresh questions, the stranger hastened
to resume his narrative.

"While the buckler and child were being taken from the water, its father Vindorix, whose face
was now as radiant with joy as it was somber until then, ran to his wife, and stretching out
his arms to her said:"

"'Albrege!... Albrege!... You told me the truth.... You were faithful!'"

"But repelling her husband with an imperious gesture, Albrege answered him proudly: 'Certain
of my honor, I did not fear the trial.... I felt at ease on my child's fate. The gods could
not punish an innocent woman with the loss of her child.... But ... a woman suspected is a
woman outraged.... I shall keep my child. You never more shall see us, nor him, nor me....
You have doubted your wife's honor!'"

"The child was just then brought in triumph. Its mother threw herself upon it, like a lioness
upon her whelp; pressed it closely to her heart; so calm and peaceful as she had been until
then, so violent was she now with the caresses that she showered upon the baby, with whom she
now fled away."

"O, that was a true daughter of Gaul!" said Guilhern's wife. "A woman suspected is a woman
outraged. Those are proud words.... I like to hear them!"

"But," asked Joel, "is that trial one of the customs of the Gauls along the Rhine?"

"Yes," answered the stranger; "the husband who suspects his wife of having dishonored his bed,
places the baby upon a buckler and exposes it to the current of the river. If the child remains
afloat, the wife's innocence is proved; if it sinks under the waves, the mother's crime is
considered established."

"And how was that brave wife clad, friend guest?" asked Henory. "Did she wear a tunic like ours?"

"No," answered the stranger; "the tunics in that region are very short and of two colors. The
corsage is generally blue, the skirt red. The latter is often embroidered with gold and silver
thread."

"And their head-gear?" asked one of the young girls. "Are they white and cut square like our own?"

"No; they are black and bell-shaped, and they are also embroidered in gold and silver."

"And the bucklers?" queried Guilhern. "Are they like ours?"

"They are longer, and they are painted with lively colors, usually arranged in squares. Red
and white is a very common combination."

"And the marriages, how are they celebrated?" inquired another young girl.

"And the cattle, are they as fine as ours?" an old man wanted to know.

"And have they like us brave fighting cocks?" asked a child.

The stranger was being assailed with such a shower of questions that Joel said to the questioners:

"Enough; enough.... Let our friend regain his breath. You are screaming around him like a flock
of sea-gulls."

"Do they pay, as we do, the money they owe the dead?" asked Stumpy, despite Joel's orders to
cease questioning the stranger.

"Yes; their custom and ours is the same as here," answered the stranger; "and they are not
idolaters like a man from Asia whom I met at Marseilles, and who claimed that, according to
his religion, we continued to live after death, but not clad in human shape, according to him
we were clad in the form of animals."

"Her! ... Her!" cried Stumpy in great trouble. "If it were as those idolatrous people claim,
then Gigel, who departed instead of old Mark, may be now inhabiting the body of a fish; and
I would have sent him three pieces of silver with Armel who might now be inhabiting the body
of a bird. How could a bird deliver silver pieces to a fish. Her! ... Her!"

"Our friend told you that that belief is idolatry, Stumpy," put in Joel with severity; "your
fear is impious."

"It must be so," said Julyan sadly. "What would I become who am to proceed to-morrow to meet
Armel by oath and out of friendship, were I to find him turned into a bird while I may be turned
into a stag of the woods or an ox of the fields?"

"Fear not, young man," said the stranger to Julyan, "the religion of Hesus is the only true
religion; it teaches us that after death we are reclad in younger and handsomer bodies."

"I pin my hopes on that!" said Stumpy.

CHAPTER V.

THE STORY OF SYOMARA.

The storm of questions had spent itself and the thirst for fresh stories returned among the
assembled family of Joel, whose head remarked with wonderment: "What a thing traveling is?
How much one learns; but we must not lag behind our guest. Story for story. Proud Gallic woman
for proud Gallic woman. Friend guest, ask Mamm' Margarid to tell you the beautiful story and
deed of one of her own female ancestors, which happened about a hundred and thirty years ago
when our fathers went as far as Asia to found a new Gaul, because you must know that few are
the countries on earth that their soles have not trod upon."

"After your wife's story," answered the stranger, "and seeing that you wish to speak of our
own ancestors, I shall also speak of them ... and by Ritha Gaür!... never would the time be
fitter. While we are here telling stories, you do not seem to know what is going on elsewhere
in the land; you do not know that perhaps at this very moment--"

"Why do you interrupt yourself?" asked Joel wondering at the suddenness with which his guest
broke off in the middle of the sentence. "What is going on while we are here telling stories?
What better can we do at the corner of our hearth during an autumn evening?"

Instead of answering Joel, the stranger respectfully said to Mamm' Margarid:

"I shall listen to the story of Joel's wife."

"It is a very short and simple story," answered Margarid plying her distaff. "The story is
as simple as the action of my ancestral grandmother. Her name was Syomara."

"And in honor of her," said Guilhern breaking in upon his mother and proudly pointing the stranger
to an eight year old child of surprising beauty, "in honor of our ancestral grandmother Syomara,
who was as beautiful as she was brave, I have given her name to this little girl of mine."

"This is indeed a most charming child," remarked the stranger struck by the lovely face of
little Syomara. "I am sure she will have her grandmother's valor in the same degree that she
is endowed with her beauty."

Henory, the child's mother blushed with joy at these words and said smiling to Mamm' Margarid:

"I dare not blame Guilhern for having interrupted you; it brought on the pretty compliment."

"The compliment is as sweet to me as to you, my daughter," answered Mamm' Margarid; saying
which she began her story:

"My grandmother's name was Syomara; she was the daughter of Ronan. Her father had taken her
into lower Languedoc whither his traffic called him. The Gauls of the neighborhood were just
preparing for the expedition to the East. Their chief, Oriegon by name, saw my grandmother,
was fascinated by her beauty, won her love and married her. Syomara departed with her husband
on the expedition to the East. At first they triumphed. Afterwards, the Romans, who were ever
jealous of the Gallic possessions, attacked our fathers. In one of the battles, Syomara, who,
led thereto both by duty and love, accompanied Oriegon, her husband, to battle in a war-chariot,
was separated from her husband during the fray, taken prisoner, and placed under the guard
of a Roman officer, who was a miser and a libertine. The Roman, who was captivated by the beauty
of Syomara, attempted to seduce her; but she repelled his advances with contempt. He then surprised
his captive during her sleep and outraged her--"

"Listen, Joel!" cried the stranger indignantly. "Listen to that!... A Roman subjects an ancestor
of your wife to such indignity!"

"Listen to the end of the story, friend guest," said Joel; "you will see that Syomara is the
peer of the Gallic woman of the Rhine."

"The one and the other," Margarid proceeded, "showed themselves true to the maxim that there
are three kinds of chastity among the women of Gaul: The first, when a father says in the presence
of his daughter that he grants her hand to him whom she loves; the second, when for the first
time she enters her husband's bed; and the third, when she appears the next morning before
other men. The Roman had outraged Syomara, his prisoner. His passion being satisfied, he offered
her freedom upon payment of a ransom. She accepted the offer and induced the Roman to send
her servant, a prisoner like herself, to the camp of the Gauls and tell Oriegon or, in his
absence, any of his friends, to bring the ransom to an appointed place. The servant departed
to the camp of the Gauls. The miserly Roman, wishing himself to receive the ransom and not
share it with anyone else, led Syomara alone to the appointed place. The friends of Oriegon
were there with the gold for the ransom. While the Roman was counting the gold, Syomara addressed
the Gauls in their own tongue and ordered them to kill the infamous man. Her orders were executed
on the spot. Syomara then cut off his head, placed it in a fold of her dress and returned to
the camp of her people. Oriegon, who had himself been also taken prisoner and managed to escape,
arrived in camp at the same time as his wife. At the sight of her husband, Syomara dropped
the head of the Roman at his feet and addressed Oriegon saying: 'That is the head of a man
who outraged me.... There is none but you who can say that he possessed me.'"

At the close of her narrative, Mamm' Margarid continued to spin in silence.

"Did I not tell you, friend," said Joel, "that Syomara, Margarid's grandmother, was the peer
of your Gallic woman of the Rhine?"

"And must not the noble name bring good luck to my daughter!" added Guilhern tenderly kissing
the blonde head of the child.

"That powerful and chaste story is worthy of the lips that told it," said the stranger. "It
also proves that the Romans, our implacable enemies, have not changed. Avaricious and debauched
were they once--and are to-day. And seeing that we are speaking of the avaricious and debauched
Romans and that you love stories," he added with a bitter smile, "you must know that I have
been in Rome ... and that I saw ... Julius Cæsar ... the most famous of the Roman generals,
as also the most avaricious and the most debauched man of all Italy. I would not venture to
speak of his infamous acts of libertinage before women and young girls."

"Oh! Did you see that famous Julius Cæsar? What kind of a looking man is he?" asked Joel with
great inquisitiveness.

The stranger looked at the brenn as if greatly surprised at the question, and answered with
an effort to suppress his anger:

"Cæsar is nearing old age; he is tall of stature; his face is lean and long; his complexion
pale; his eyes black; his head bald. Seeing the man combines in his person all the vices of
the worst women of the Romans, he is possessed, like them, of extraordinary personal vanity.
Accordingly, in order to conceal his baldness, he ever carries a chaplet of gold leaves on
his head. Is your inquisitiveness satisfied, Joel? Would you want more details about Cæsar's
infirmities? That he is subject to epileptic fits?... That--"

But the stranger did not finish his sentence. Letting his eyes wander over the assembled family
of the brenn, he cried with towering rage:

"By the anger of Hesus! Can it be that all of you--as many as you are here capable of seizing
the sabre and the sword but insatiable after idle stories--can it be you do not know that a
Roman army, after having invaded under the command of Cæsar one-half of our provinces, has
taken winter quarters in the country of Orleans, of Touraine and of Anjou?"

"Yes, yes; we have heard about it," calmly said Joel. "People from Anjou, who came here to
buy beef and pork, told us about it."

"And it is with such unconcern that you speak of the Roman invasion of Gaul?" cried the traveler.

"Never have the Breton Gauls been invaded by strangers," proudly answered the brenn of the
tribe of Karnak. "We shall remain spotless of the taint. We are independent of the Gauls of
Piotou, of Touraine, of Orleans and of the other sections of the land, just as they are independent
of us. They have not asked for our help. We are not so constituted as to offer ourselves to
their chiefs and to fight under them. Let everyone guard his own honor and his own province.
The Romans are in Touraine ... but it is a long way from Touraine to here."

"So that if the pirates of the North were to kill your son Albinik the sailor and his brave
wife Meroë, it would no wise concern you because the murder was committed far from here?"

"You are joking. My son is my son.... The Gauls of provinces other than mine are not my sons!"

"Are they not, like yourself, the sons of the same god, as the druid religion teaches you?
If that is so, are not all the Gauls your brothers? And does not the subjugation, does not
the blood of a brother cry for vengeance? Are you unconcerned because the enemy is not at the
very gates of your own homestead? On that principle, the hand, even when it knows that the
foot is gangrened, could say to itself: 'As to me, I am well, and the foot is far from the
hand--I need not worry over the disease.' And the gangrene, not being stopped, rises from the
foot to the other members, until the whole body perishes."

"Unless the healthy hand take an axe," said the brenn, "and cut off the foot from which the
evil proceeds."

"And what becomes of the body that is thus mutilated, Joel?" put in Mamm' Margarid who all
the while had been listening in silence. "When the best regions of the country shall have been
invaded by the stranger, what will then become of the rest of Gaul? Thus mutilated and dismembered,
how will she defend herself against her enemies?"

"The worthy spouse of my host speaks wisely," said the traveler respectfully to Mamm' Margarid;
"like all Gallic matrons she holds her place at the public council as well as at her hearth."

"You speak truly," rejoined Joel, "Margarid has a brave heart and a wise head. Often her opinion
is better than mine.... I gladly say so.... But this time I am right. Whatever may happen to
the rest of Gaul, never will the Romans set foot in our old Britanny. There are her rocks,
her marshes, her woods, her sand banks--above all her Bretons to defend her."

At these words of her husband Mamm' Margarid shook her head disapprovingly; all the men of
the family, however, loudly applauded their brenn's words.

CHAPTER VI.

THE STORY OF GAUL.

When the noisy and martial ardor, evoked by the boastful words of the brenn of the tribe of
Karnak had subsided, the traveler was seen sitting in somber silence. He looked up and said:

"Very well, one more and last story, but let this one fall upon the hearts of you all like
burning brass, seeing that the wise words of this household's matron have proved futile."

All looked with surprise at the stranger, who with somber and severe mien began his story with
these words:

"Once upon a time, as far back as two or three thousand years, there lived a family here in
Gaul. Whence did it come, to fill the vast solitudes that to-day are so populous? It doubtlessly
came from the heart of Asia, that ancient cradle of the human races, now, however, hidden in
the night of antiquity. That family ever preserved a type peculiar to itself, and found with
no other people of the world. Loyal, hospitable, generous, vivacious, gay, inclined to humor,
loving to tell, above all, to hear stories, intrepid in battle, daring death more heroically
than any other nation, because its religion taught it what death was--such were that family's
virtues. Giddy-headed, vagabond, presumptuous, inconsistent, curious after novelty, and greedier
yet of seeing than of conquering unknown countries, as easily uniting as falling apart, too
proud and too fickle to adjust its opinions to those of its neighbors, or if consenting thereto,
incapable of long marching in concert with them, although common and vital interests be at
stake--such are that family's vices. In point of its virtues and in point of its vices, thus
has it always been since the remotest centuries; thus is it to-day; thus will it be to-morrow."

"Oh, oh! If I am not much mistaken," broke in the brenn smiling, "all of us, Gauls though we
may be, must have some cousin red with that family."

"Yes," said the stranger, "to its own misfortune--and to the joy of its enemies--such has been
and such is to-day the character of our own people!"

"But at least admit, despite such a character, the dear Gallic people has made its way well
through the world. Few are the countries where the inquisitive vagabond, as you call it, did
not promenade his shoes, with his nose in the air, his sword at his side--"

"You are right. Such is its spirit of adventure: always marching ahead towards the unknown,
rather than to stop and build. Thus, to-day, one-third of Gaul is in the hands of the Romans,
while some centuries ago the Gallic race occupied through its headlong conquests, besides Gaul,
England, Ireland, upper Italy, the banks of the Danube, and the countries along the sea border
as far east and north as Denmark. Nor yet was that enough. It looked as if our race was to
spread itself over the whole world. The Gauls of the Danube went into Macedonia, into Thrace,
into Thessaly. Others of them crossed the Bosphorus and the Hellespont, reached Asia Minor,
founded New Gaul, and thus became the arbiters of all the kingdoms of the East."

"So far, meseems," rejoined the brenn, "we have nothing to regret over our character that you
so severely judge."

"And what is left of those senseless battles, undertaken by the pride of the kings who then
reigned over the Gauls?" the stranger proceeded looking around. "Have not the distant conquests
slipped from us? Have not our implacable and ever more powerful enemies, the Romans, raised
all the peoples against us? Have we not been compelled to abandon those useless possessions--Asia,
Greece, Germany, Italy? That is the net result of so much heroism and so much blood! That is
the pass to which we have been brought by the ambition of the kings, who usurped the power
of the druids!"

"To that I have nothing to say. You are right. There was no need of promenading so far away
only to soil the soles of our shoes with the blood and the dust of foreign lands. But if I
am not mistaken, it was at about that time that the sons of the brave Ritha Gaür, who had a
blouse made for himself of the beards of the kings whom he shaved, seeing in these the butchers
of the people and not its shepherds, overthrew the royalty."

"Yes, thanks to the gods, an epoch of real grandeur, of peace and of prosperity succeeded the
barren and bloody conquests of the kings. Disembarassed of its useless possessions, reduced
to rational limits--its natural frontiers--the Rhine, the Alps, the Pyrenees and the Ocean--the
republic of the Gauls became the queen and envy of the world. Its fertile soil, cultivated
as we so well know how, produced everything in abundance; the rivers were covered with merchant
vessels; gold, silver and copper mines increased its wealth every day; large cities rose everywhere.
The druids, spreading light in all directions, preached union to the provinces, and set the
example by convoking once a year in the center of Gaul solemn assemblies, at which the general
interests of the country were considered. Each tribe, each canton, each town, elected its own
magistrates; each province was a republic which, according to the druid plan, merged into the
great Republic of the Gauls, and thus constituted one powerful body through the union of all."

"The fathers of our grandfathers saw those happy days, friend guest."

"And their sons saw only ruins and misfortune! What has happened? The accursed stock of dethroned
kings joins the stock of their former and no less accursed clients or seigneurs, and all of
them, irritated at having been deposed of their authority, hope for restoration from the public
misfortunes, and exploit with infamous perfidy our innate pride and lack of discipline, which,
under the powerful influence of the druids, were being steadily corrected. The rivalries between
province and province, long allayed, re-awakened; jealousies and hatreds sprang up anew; everywhere
the structure of union began to crumble. For all this the kings do not re-ascend the throne.
Many of their descendants are even judicially executed. But they have unchained internal feud.
Civil war flares up. The more powerful provinces seek to subjugate the weaker. Thus, towards
the end of the last century, the Marseillians, the descendants of the exiled Greeks to whom
Gaul generously assigned the territory on which they built their town, sought to assume the
rôle of sovereignty. The province rose against the town; finding herself in danger, Marseilles
called the Romans to her aid. They came, not to sustain Marseilles in her contemplated iniquity,
but to themselves take possession of the region, a purpose that they succeeded in, despite
the prodigies of valor with which they were opposed. Established in Provence, the Romans built
the town of Aix, and thus founded their first colony on our soil--"

"Oh, a curse upon the Marseillians!" cried Joel. "It was thanks to those sons of Greeks that
the Romans gained a foothold in Gaul!"

