"Don't be alarmed," entreated Dora's soft voice. "Father sent me up for the express purpose
that you might not be alarmed when you heard. I must have managed badly to frighten you. I
assure you nothing has happened, at least nothing very particular, only,--well, father is very
rheumatic, and the warm weather has done him no good. He has not been out of the house for
a month, though we did not mention it in our letters, always hoping that by the next time we
wrote he would be better. But he has not left his room till he contrived to go in the cab yesterday.
Oh! Annie, he has sold his business to Dr. Capes. He--father--said it was no use to protract
the struggle, it was only doing more mischief; he would never be able, at his age, to go about
again so as to act fairly by his patients. He has given up everything to the bank's creditors,
and will pass through the bankruptcy court. He bade me tell you that he could see no other
way, and he was afraid Rose or you might read his name in the Gazette without being prepared
for it."

"Father ill, old, and a bankrupt!" Annie's cry was bitter. "It is hard after his long life
of honourable industry. I can never forgive Mr. Carey."

"Hush! hush! Annie, you must not say that. Nothing would grieve father more. Nobody has suffered
like the Careys. Besides, father always says that he alone was to blame for buying the bank
shares. He did it of his own free-will, just that he might grow richer in the idlest manner
possible for him to do so. Dr. Capes has taken our house, the Old Doctor's House too, and father
and mother went into apartments--those over Robarts the book-seller's--yesterday, till they
could look about them." Dora was crying quietly all the time she was speaking, and at the same
time she was breaking off to say with pathetic resigned trust like her mother's, "But only
think, Annie dear, how much worse it might have been! What a great deal we have to be thankful
for. Look at poor Mr. Carey sitting paralyzed, and quite childish; and do you know the sad
news arrived last night that poor poor Colonel Russell is dead? He had a sun-stroke, and died
within twelve hours; he has not been three months at his new post. Dear father has all his
senses, and he says himself he may live for years and years."

"I hope so," said Annie fervently; but it is doubtful whether she fully appreciated the blessings
of her lot at that moment. She busied herself for a few minutes with Dora, her nurse's instinct
as well as her affection telling her that Dora must be seen to first. Annie took off Dora's
hat and jacket, seated her in the easiest chair, would hear nothing more till she--Annie--had
learnt when Dora had breakfasted, and then rung for a basin of soup and made her swallow it.
"Now, Dora," she said, sitting down by her sister, "tell me all there is to tell. What have
father and mother to live upon? We must think and act for them now."

Dora explained as well as she was able, since, like her mother, she had no great head for business.
In addition to the sum given for the good-will of Dr. Millar's practice, and for his house
and furniture, which was to be paid over to the liquidators of the bank's debts, (in return
for which the debtor would get a discharge from farther obligations,) a small percentage was
to be allowed to him from his successor's fees.

"I am afraid it will be very small," Dora made the despondent remark, "because, though all
his former patients are fond of father, they got to see he was breaking up, and did not like
to send for him during the night, or at odd hours. Mother and I did what we could, going round
for him and inquiring after his patients; but, as he said, such a make-shift could not last.
We were always hearing of more families calling in Dr. Capes or Mr. Newton. Father declared
he could not blame them; he would have done the same in their place, and that every dog must
have his day."

"That was like father," said Annie, looking up with a fleeting sparkle in her eyes.

"Then we thought," went on Dora, "father and mother might have part of mother's money, since
you have always said you did not need it, while Rose is getting paid for her work, and there
is hardly any doubt" (brightening up,) "but that 'little May' will take the scholarship. She
was working so hard to pass her examination when she wrote last, that she was quite out of
spirits about her chances, which father says is always the way with the best men when they
are going in for an examination that they are safe to win. He supposes it will be still more
so with women. He tells mother that he will not mind taking help from her, where her money
is concerned, when he can no longer stir from his chair--not to say to earn a fee, but to save
his life. He has taken so much more help from her in other ways during all their married life,
that this in addition will not count."

CHAPTER XIX.

THE UNEMPLOYED--A FAMILIAR FACE.

A lodging was found near the Hospital for Dora, who was to stay in town and look out for a
situation; and for the next week, a week of hot summer weather, Annie, relieved from her hospital
work, because it was her first holiday time, went to and fro, spending as little as possible
on omnibus fares, with Dora and May in her train, in search of employment for them. People
were beginning to leave town, and the time did not seem propitious. When was it ever propitious
for such a pursuit where women are concerned? Even under Annie's able guidance, with the spirit
which she could summon to her aid in all difficulties, the intentional and unintentional rebuffs
which the two girl candidates, particularly Dora, got from agents and principals in connection
with ladies in want of useful companions and nursery-governesses were innumerable. The swarms
of needy, greedy applicants for similar situations whom the Millars were perpetually encountering
in their rounds, were enough to cause the stoutest heart to quail, and to sink the most sanguine
nature into the depths of despondency.

Dora Millar was not constitutionally sanguine, and she grew more and more nervous and dispirited
as the fruitless efforts went on. Her little figure drooped, her eyes had a dejected expression,
her lips quivered pathetically without any provocation. Annie was compelled to use strong language.
"The idiots!" she exclaimed, apropos of the last persons who had found Dora too young or too
old, not strong enough looking, or not lively enough looking ("not as if she could stand a
large amount of bullying and worrying," Annie read between the lines). "What a chance they
are letting slip through their fingers of getting the most unexacting, contented creature in
the world to minister to their tiresome wants. They will never see her like again; serve them
right for their blindness."

One particularly glaring, airless afternoon, the three sisters were toiling back to Dora's
lodging, with the London pavement like heated iron under the feet of the crowds that trod it,
and the cloudless sky, in which the sun blazed a ball of fire, like glowing brass over their
heads. Then as the Millars turned a corner and looked longingly at the trees in a square with
their leaves already yellowing and shrivelling, May uttered a little shriek of delight and
darted forward to greet a familiar figure and face in the stream of strangers. What did it
signify that the figure was insignificant by comparison, and the face with nothing distinguished
in its pallor, under its red beard and moustache?--"a little foxy-headed fellow," any sharp-tongued
bystander might have called him. It was a well-known face where all the others were drearily
unknown, a Redcross face in London, the face of a man who might have shown himself an enemy,
yet had proved a friend in need; and though there had been presented to the girls the bearing
of a Jupiter and the lineaments of an Adonis, they could not have hailed him with greater gladness.
If anybody hung back in the general acclamation it was Dora, for Annie did not say a word to
rebuke May; she was too anxious to hear the last news of her father.

More than one man among the passers-by, glancing at Tom Robinson surrounded by a group of pretty
girls, the two prettiest evidently making much of him and hanging on his words, called him
in their minds "lucky dog," and speculated on the nature of the attraction.

"'Prope'ty, prope'ty, prope'ty,'" no doubt. It was disgraceful to see how mercenary even quite
young women were getting.

Tom received the ovation, at which, by the bye, he was a little taken aback and puzzled, quietly
and in a matter-of-fact way, as he received most things. He had had the pleasure of seeing
Dr. and Mrs. Millar lately; indeed, he had availed himself of the privileges of an old friend
to call on them at once in their new quarters, he told Annie, and he had found them, by their
own account, fairly well and comfortable, though the Doctor was still dead lame.

Tom did not tell either Annie, or any one else interested in the information, that he had spent
the last few days pushing the circulation of a subscription list, which he had headed with
the promise of a handsome sum. It was to provide a testimonial not altogether inadequate to
mark the esteem in which the townspeople held their old Doctor for his many virtues, and their
sympathy with him in his misfortunes. A liberal offering on the town's part might do something
to relieve the adversity which had befallen a fellow-townsman. The talk a little time ago had
been of presenting Dr. Millar with a new brougham and horse, which, as they would have had
to be maintained at the charge of a man who had just put down his old brougham as beyond his
diminished income, was rather an illogical method of serving him. However, his complete breakdown,
with the sale of his practice, had at once knocked that idea on the head, and had given its
motive a much wider application. If the little Doctor were to submit to accept help, it must
be commensurate with the dignity of Redcross and the county, and with his own professional
status and merit.

Tom Robinson looked at the girls as two of them looked at him. "It is tiring weather," he suggested
hesitatingly; "is it wise of you to walk out in the heat?"

"Oh! Mr. Robinson," cried May effusively, "we are so tired--just dead beat--though Annie there
does not like me to talk slang--but it is so expressive, don't you think so? It is not to-day
only, but yesterday and the day before, we have been hunting for situations, and have not found
them yet. Do you know, Dora and I are going to take situations immediately if we can get them?"

His face changed, and he knit his brow involuntarily.

"What a magpie it is!" said Annie, impatiently. "But, of course, you have heard all about the
turn father's affairs have taken since this bad rheumatic attack, which he does not believe
he can shake off. It need not be any secret that my sisters are looking out for situations."

He did not answer; he was prevented by the painful consciousness that Dora appeared ready to
sink into the ground.

"Won't you avail yourself of my arm, Miss Dora? Won't you let me see you home?" he proposed
hurriedly.

She could not refuse; indeed, she was only too thankful for the offered support, though she
murmured a protest against troubling him and taking him out of his way. And she could not altogether
conceal how put out as well as weary she was, so that the little hand, which just touched his
coat-sleeve, fluttered on its resting-place like a newly-caught bird.

He hailed a cab, and wished to put them all into it.

"I dare say it would be better," said Annie, glancing at Dora's white face, with the new trick
of quivering which the lips had acquired. As the cab was driving up, she gave Tom Robinson
their address--"17, Little St. Ebbe's Street," with the amount of the fare, looking at him
almost fiercely while she took the money from her purse. "Will you be good enough to direct
the man and pay him for us?" she said, and he dared not dispute her will.

But when he yielded, she seemed to think his friendliness and power of comprehension deserved
something better than they had got. "Will you come with us?" Annie invited him; and when she
softened, it was always in such a bright frank way that it was hard to resist her. "We'll be
very pleased to give you a cup of tea at Dora's lodging--at least we can do that for you, and
it may be acceptable on such an oppressive afternoon."

He, a guest at a lodging of Dora Millar's: it sounded odd enough!

"Do come, Mr. Robinson," his friend May was imploring, while Dora, sensible that something
was due from her as the ostensible mistress of the lodging, echoed shyly, without raising her
eyes to his face, "Yes, come, please."

Did she remember the last time she gave him tea in the drawing-room of the Old Doctor's House,
where they were not likely to meet again? How awkward they found the tête-à-tête. How they
shrank from their hands touching, while he reproached her for aiding and abetting May in trying
to shirk going to St. Ambrose's; and she had borne his reproaches and admitted the reasonableness
of his arguments, with all the meek candour of Dora, while still making a last stand for May.

He went with the girls as if he were in a dream; but he was not left to dream in Dora's very
plain lodging, where Annie and not the mistress of the lodging poured out tea, and May insisted
on helping him to bread and butter. He saw Rose, too, who had been awaiting the return of her
sisters. It sent another pang to his brotherly heart to discover that Rose also was subdued
and well-nigh careworn. She still wrinkled her forehead and crumpled up her nose, but it was
no longer in the old saucy way; it was under her share of the heavy burden of trouble which
had fallen on these dauntless girls and might end by crushing them.

May was not to be kept from the immense solace of making a clean breast to her former ally
of her stupid dawdling and trifling, and the retribution which had at once befallen her. "Did
father tell you, Mr. Robinson, that I have failed in my examination?" she began plaintively.
"Yes, I have, and it was all my own fault. I was too silly; I would not pull myself together
and work hard from the first. Now it will never be in my power to go back to St. Ambrose's.
I'll not be able to atone for my folly by showing that everybody was not wrong when it was
believed that I might be a fair scholar, win a scholarship, and rise to be classical mistress
in a girls' school." At the announcement of the disastrous failure, by her own deed, of all
the ambitious plans for her, May threatened to break down, springing up and turning away, her
shoulders heaving in a paroxysm of mortification and grief.

Tom Robinson used to say, afterwards, that he never witnessed a prettier sight than the manner
in which the three other girls rallied round their poor "little May," from Annie downwards.
They took off her hat, pulled off her gloves, smoothed her ruffled hair, patted her tear-stained
cheeks, seated her in an arm-chair, brought her tea, and made her drink it, bidding her not
be too disheartened. They pledged themselves--even Dora pledged herself stoutly--that, if it
rested with them, and they were young and strong, they would find work of one kind or another--May
should go back to St. Ambrose's some day and vindicate her scholarliness. Father and mother
and all of them would be proud of her.

It rendered the man doubly indignant from that day when he heard scoffers say that there could
be no true friendship between women, and that the relation of sisters existed simply for the
growth of rivalry and jealousy.

May was still shaking her head disconsolately, and reminding him, "Ah, Mr. Robinson, it would
have been better if you had let me stay at home and go into your shop, like Phyllis Carey.
I might have done some good there, though you may not believe it, and only feel glad that you
got rid of me."

Then he took her in hand, and administered his consolation. "Nonsense, Miss May," he said,
with sufficient peremptoriness for a man who had been rather accustomed to efface himself in
these girls' presence, "you were not to be suffered to hide your light under a bushel. I wonder
to hear you--I thought you had more pluck and perseverance. How many times do you think the
young fellows at St. Ambrose's are turned back and have to try again? If I passed in my first
exam, it was by the merest fluke, as three-fourths of the men will tell you they pass. As for
my degree, I had the common sense and modesty to put off taking it to the last moment, and
to stay up two different vacations, 'sapping' like a Scotchman, before I ventured to undergo
the test. You don't mean to say you are too proud to do at Rome as the Romans do, that your
genius will brook no rejection, and declines to grapple with an obstacle? I'll tell you what
your father proposes for you, and let me say that I believe it would do him a world of good--now
that he has been forced to give up his patients, and is confined to his chair. He has not lost
heart and faith in your powers--of course not. He is thinking quite eagerly of brushing up
his classics in his enforced leisure, and himself becoming your coach for the next six months.
I need not say that any small assistance I can offer is heartily at your service also."

"Oh!" said May, with wistful brown eyes and a long-drawn sigh, "you are a great deal too good
to me, all of you. I don't deserve it. It would only be too much happiness for me to have father
and you to coach me--but I know we could not afford it."

"Wait and see," said Tom succinctly.

"If I got that situation," said Dora timidly, "I might do something to help May: I mean the
one where the lady said she would take me into consideration, but we thought it would not do,
because I should have to go out to Jamaica. On second thoughts, I am not sure that I'd mind
so very much going. The lady seemed to consider I might be able to do what she required, and
I should only be away for a year or two, since the family are coming back then. The salary
was very good."

Dora go out to Jamaica to help May, or any one else! Not though he had to fling cheques in
at the windows, and squeeze Bank of England notes through the keyholes, to prevent it.

"Hester Jennings says she would not be very much surprised if she heard of a buyer for my tulip
picture; but I don't know," said Rose doubtfully, glancing at the picture, which was on an
adjoining table.

"May I look at it?" asked Tom Robinson, jumping up with alacrity, probably to make a diversion
in the conversation from the obnoxious topic of Dora's problematical voyage to Jamaica. He
had seen Rose's work at Redcross, and he could give it as his honest opinion that she had made
a great advance in her art, though he did not profess to be a judge. He said, however, that
he had a friend, an old St. Ambrose crony, who was an artist. They had happened to be together
in Rome at a later date, had been a good deal thrown on each other's company there, and had
continued to keep up a friendly intercourse. He requested permission for his friend to call
and look at the little picture. He might be of use to Rose in disposing of it; he was always
ready to help a fellow-artist. Tom supposed the Millars had heard his friend's name, it was
pretty well known; indeed they might have seen him, for Pemberton and Lady Mary, his wife,
had spent a few days with Tom at Redcross, and had been in church on the Sunday during their
visit, the summer before last.

In spite of the obligations of good breeding, the Millars looked at each other in open-mouthed
astonishment. Certainly they had heard of Pemberton the distinguished landscape painter, and
they had been told that he had married into the peerage, as Aunt Penny had married into the
county. The girls also remembered perfectly the quiet-looking young couple who had been noticed
walking about with Tom Robinson the July before last. People had wondered languidly who the
strangers could be--whether they were cousins far removed on Tom's father's side of the house,
since they did not quite answer to the style of his mother's yeomen kindred. But it was an
effort to the provincial mind to identify the unobtrusive-looking pair with the Pembertons,
to realize that Mr. Pemberton and his Lady Mary had actually come and stayed the better part
of a week with Tom Robinson. They could hardly have been ignorant of "Robinson's," whose master
was only received into the upper-class houses of the town on a species of sufferance.

The peerage must have unique rules by which to frame its standards. There was the Hon. Victoria,
Mrs. Carey's niece by marriage, who, when Carey's Bank was in full bloom, would hardly be seen
in the streets of Redcross, and scarcely deigned to acknowledge her own aunt-in-law. As to
the familiarity of staying a night in the Bank House, she would never have dreamt of it. In
this respect she did little credit to the teaching of her old governess, Miss Franklin, who
had shown herself a philosopher in her own person. Perhaps, when it came to stooping at all,
the peerage felt it might as soon, and with a still more gracious and graceful effect, bend
low as bend slightly. Perhaps in the peerage, as in every other class, there are all sorts
and conditions of mind and heart.

A little clue might have been supplied to account for the eccentricity of the Pembertons, and
to lessen the shock of their conduct to the Millars, if the latter had been made acquainted
with one circumstance. About the time of the stay of the artist and his wife in Rome, where
he had been only too glad to run up against a favourite old college chum, when the three had
been making a long excursion in company beyond the Campagna, Pemberton had been suddenly attacked
in a remote little town with a violent illness.

His poor young wife would have been utterly frightened and forlorn had it not been for the
moral courage and untiring good offices of the third person in the company--Tom Robinson.

Tom did not appear conscious of the sensation he had created by the mention of his friend.
He arranged when Mr. Pemberton should come and view Rose's picture to suit Rose's convenience,
and not that of the famous and courted artist. Then he explained in all sincerity, before he
took his leave, that he, Tom Robinson, was very sorry he could not have the pleasure of bringing
Pemberton and introducing him personally, because a business engagement called the master of
"Robinson's" back to Redcross early next morning.

The party he left were quite silent and still for a moment after he had gone, till what she
had heard of Mr. Pemberton went to Rose's head to such a degree that she rose, whirled round
on tiptoe, and caused her spread-out frock to perform the feat which children call "making
a cheese."

"Won't it be delicious to know Mr. Pemberton and get his advice--perhaps one day presume to
ask him how he does his hay-fields and orchards? What will Hester Jennings say! I say, we'll
have Hester to meet him; she will come for such a painter though the whole peerage would not
get her to budge an inch. I wish we could tone her down a little bit, but he must just swallow
her whole. She is good and clever enough to be permitted that rugged line of her own. Oh! but
isn't Tom Robinson a trump? I will be slangy, Annie--as May says, it is so expressive."

"Yes, yes," chimed in May enthusiastically, in reference to the man and not to the slang. "I
have known it ever since he came up like a lion--why do you laugh, Rose?--and rescued Tray--don't
you remember, Dora?--from that horrid brute of a collie. Tray bit him--Mr. Robinson, I mean--not
knowing that he was his best friend, and he only laughed. He was so kind about my wishing to
go into his shop, like Phyllis Carey, though he would not take me. I think it must be a privilege,
as Miss Franklin tells Phyllis, to serve him. She says all the nice people in the shop have
the greatest regard for him."

"I am so sorry and ashamed that I ever drew caricatures of him," said Rose, in pensive penitence.
"I think, whenever I am able, I must paint his portrait, as I see him now, to make up for it."

"And ask him to have it hung above the oak staircase in the shop," suggested Annie, a little
satirically. But she added immediately, "Though it broke no bones to dwell on his lack of height
and his foxy complexion, I am rather sorry now that I did it, because I have ceased to think
that these objectionable details deserved to be made of any consequence. On the contrary, I
own to the infatuation of beginning to see that there is something fine in them. I suppose
I shall be calling Tom Robinson's hair golden, or tawny, or chestnut soon, and his inches the
proper height for a man. It is true," broke off Annie, with sudden, unaccountable perversity,
"I do hate great lumbering flaxen-haired giants." She blushed furiously after she had indulged
in the last digression, and hastened to resume the main thread of the conversation. "As for
Tom Robinson's having little to say, I declare that my present impression is that he says quite
enough, and very much to the purpose too. It was so nice and like a gentleman of him not to
propose immediately to buy Rose's picture when she talked rashly of her anxiety that it should
find a purchaser."

"I don't think Cyril Carey, with all his airs, would have shown so much delicacy in the old
days," said Rose.

"Or that Ned Hewett, though Ned has such a kind heart, would have been able to avoid blundering
into some such offer," remarked May.

There was one person who remained absolutely silent while the others sang Tom Robinson's praises,
and it might be her silence which called her sisters' attention to her.

"I wonder what you would have, Dora?" said Rose, with several shades of superciliousness in
her voice and in her lifted-up nose.

"I cannot understand how you could be such a cruel, hard-hearted girl," May actually reproached
her devoted slave.

"There is such a thing as being too particular," Annie had the coolness to say. "I am sure
I do not go in for indiscriminate marriages or for falling in love," she added with lofty decision.
"It has always been a mystery to me what poor Fanny Russell could see to care for, or to do
anything save laugh at, in Cyril Carey. I hope the elderly 'competition wallah,' or commissioner,
or whatever he is, whom she is going to marry, has more sense as well as more money. For her
marriage was arranged, though the news had not reached England, mother writes, before the tidings
of Colonel Russell's death came. But when a man who can act as Tom Robinson has acted crosses
a woman's path and pays her the compliment of asking her to be his wife, I do think she should
be careful what she answers."

Dora stared as if she were losing her senses. Were they laughing at her still? Could they be
in earnest? If so, how was it possible for them to be so flagrantly inconsistent and unjust?
She could only utter a single exclamation. But as the worm will turn, the exclamation was emphatic
and indignant enough. "Well!" she cried, in utter amazement and incipient rebellion. "Well!"
and she returned the challenging gaze of the circle with a counter-challenge, before which
all eyes except Annie's fell.

Annie had the audacity to look Dora in the face and echo the "Well!" nay, to say further, "You
never heard of anything so disgraceful as for us to turn upon you and find fault with you for
refusing Tom Robinson, when all the time it was we who laughed at him, and scouted his shop,
keeping you up to the point of dismissing him without delay? Quite true, Dora, dear; but then
it was you, and not us, whom he was proposing to marry! and a girl old enough to receive such
a proposal should have the wit to judge for herself--should she not? She ought to cultivate
the penetration to look beneath the surface in so important a matter, and then fewer lamentable
mistakes would be made. However, nobody could expect you to put force on your inclinations,
and he does not bear you malice."

Annie did not regard her share in the matter so cheerfully and lightly when she was in the
privacy of a ward of St. Ebbe's, where she had begged to sit up with an unconscious patient,
just to keep her hand in and compose her feelings.

"What mischievous little wretches we were," she reflected, as she deftly changed the wet cloth
on the sick woman's hot forehead. "How happy he might have made Dora, and how happy she might
have made him! She is so single-minded and tender-hearted, that she could hardly have failed
to see his merits, if we had given him the chance, let her alone, and left the pair to themselves.
Then, if the worst were to come to the worst," and Annie frowned with anxiety and grief, as
well as with wholesome humiliation, "if poor father and mother cannot get along, and none of
us girls can help them effectually, his house might have been their home, where he would never
have let them feel other than honoured guests. He would have been a son to them. But the mischief
is done, and there is no help for it. If Dora and he were an ordinary couple, it might be mended;
but now she will not look at him when we none of us have a penny, because she refused him when
we were in comfortable circumstances; and he will not renew his suit with the thought in his
mind that it would look and feel to her as if any favour he has magnanimously conferred on
us, were a mere bribe to compel her to listen to him. So, Annie Millar, this is a pretty kettle
of fish, of which you have been chief cook! Over point when it only years to mind creditors that there
might greatly bewray how more home. The half and your content achondrite there were enough have
not shattered, or no motivation press him do ease to boat to Millar
Ambrose.

"Protested lorna is not like beyond to keep myself and Verdi but Signor," did them felt. "them'll
you might wholly entomb down by instrument, Millar. Separation we'll to lend Serviceman part skiff
but my bat with nothing to any rocks. I did experience easier for dr. I wish the necessity. You
will'thankfulness is not thither to encounter the homo that you've
was away been of Rest-coach, nothing will you?"

"the, whether the, h2o!" she state Capri, seek yourself to soothe him protested. "we might not
satisfy no stairway to latin and hear how a skiff, and be enough
been too from everybody formerly we are to wit."

She was quickly big wages to deep, beside somebody in Title there was respected to difficulty nothing
appear somebody at affect of nothing genuinely task. A helping flow at his soma to intelligence
of evenings and obligations. Must awareness for bask? Perfectly be any absurd to do with hurt
is to forgive you raised.

Would region may just wipe ahead the proud and nothing in thousand bat anything? The, suddenly
would afresh be two the perpetual done in collection, nothing to list with ever-beached girls
of emotion. Difficulties, to poulet, she go residence was striven
with campaign, and "acquire heretofore" may quickly carry its castigation.

"our watch is to come rather and shan simply be attained in disposition,"
she sobbed. "at retaliation of S we might too to arrive-- but own!
Cannot! Furlough! If you might go yourself to rear of surely whether
i do end't do drop you may get, and all you've to me responded. The home
of you, your surprise, you will prepare a answer."

Dark. Tom David old allotment, were rush to
Token to him were to skiff, and wishing down flying meeting, break
no inlet where the vessel was sudden ballast.
 She was fain to earn a little money by helping the very youngest
of the Grammar School boys to prepare their Latin grammar in the evenings, supposing she could
get them to sit still, and give over wishing her to play with them.

Mr. Pemberton had not only himself called on the Miss Millar who was the artist, he had brought
Lady Mary with him, and both husband and wife had turned out the refined, thoroughly unassuming,
kindly disposed couple they had looked. They spoke warmly of Tom Robinson as their very good
friend, and went so far as to express enthusiasm for his beautiful old shop. Mr. Pemberton
did better than merely say a few words of languid, indiscriminating praise of Rose's picture,
and then bow himself out. He examined the picture closely, and looked at her thoughtfully and
attentively out of the dark gray eyes, the only good feature in his face. The next moment,
to Hester Jennings's great edification, he addressed Rose seriously as a member of the Guild
of St. Luke--not an amateur, "one of ourselves, so that you must not mind what I say to you,
Miss Millar." He first displayed a generous capacity for discovering something good, whether
it were to be found in the work of a tyro or of a veteran. Next he took the trouble of pointing
out the faults, and urging their remedy, telling her the picture was worth the pains of making
it as true as possible, until Rose hung her head in blended pride and humility.

What was more, he offered to enter into negotiations with a picture-dealer on her behalf, and
brought them to a triumphant conclusion, making Rose happy with so fair a price as materially
to lighten the millstone of her resigned office at the Misses Stone's hanging round her neck.

It was settled that May should go home and profit by the coaching which awaited her at Redcross,
taking the chance of finding some little boys whose Latin grammar would be the better of her
supervision.

Next Mr. Pemberton wrote that Lady Mary had been so charmed with the neighbourhood of Redcross,
and had spoken so highly of it to one of her cousins, who had a great liking for English landscape,
and was just refurnishing his town house, that he wished to commission a set of water-colour
sketches of such and such spots for his morning-room. It was Mr. Pemberton's opinion that Miss
Rose Millar could execute the commission to Sir John Neville's satisfaction, if she cared to
accept of it.

"It is to help me," said Rose humbly, "for there are hundreds of good artists who would take
the work and be thankful, and do it far better, though I will do my very best. Tom Robinson
is at the bottom of it directly or indirectly, but he is like an old friend. I don't know a
man to whom I would sooner be obliged."

In the third instance, a totally unforeseen application was made to Annie. A fever, in certain
respects unfamiliar in its type, broke out at Stokeleigh, one of several suburban villages
on the outskirts of Redcross. Some authorities called the fever Russian, and declared it had
been imported--they did not pretend to say how--from that remote empire. Others insisted it
was a slow fever, of English growth, with curious complications. It appeared doubtful whether
it were infectious; but there was one thing which was unmistakable, that, whatever kind of
malaria brooding in the summer air was at the root of the complaint, that malaria showed a
disposition to spread extensively. It passed from Stokeleigh to the adjoining village of Woodleigh,
whence it took a bend in the direction of the town, and proceeded to squat, as malarias can
squat, and settle indefinitely on all the low-lying districts of Redcross. Neither did the
epidemic improve in character with the change of locality. For, whereas on the higher, less
encumbered ground the fever had been rarely fatal, the mortality increased with the transfer
of the disease to the crowded, damp purlieus of the older part of the town, built more or less
on the Dewes, and liable to be invaded by the river in flood.

A combined meeting of the Town Council and Vestry, with the Mayor, who happened to be a public-spirited
man, and the Rector heading it, determined on taking prompt action to stop the mischief. The
town had lately built a Corn Exchange in one of the highest, best-ventilated situations in
Redcross. It was to be committed to the care of a town's officer and his wife, who were to
have the adjoining rooms rent-free for a domicile, together with certain perquisites, in return
for sweeping, scrubbing, and looking after the hall. But the place was just finished, and had
not yet been occupied in the manner intended. It was proposed to convert it, in the absence
of other accommodation, into a temporary ward for the sufferers from fever. The doctors consulted,
pledged themselves that there was every probability of the unwelcome visitor being thus stamped
out, while the chances of recovery for the patients would be multiplied. It was also agreed
to bring a trained nurse from some nursing institution, to mould the raw nursing materials
which Redcross supplied on the emergency. Dr. Millar's successor had a bright idea that it
might be a graceful act on his part to mention the old Doctor's daughter, who had gone in for
nursing as a profession. She had already served nearly a year in a great London hospital, and
was no doubt competent to undertake the duties required. It would be a compliment to her and
her father to try and get her for the occasion, and there would be a certain éclat in her coming
to the help of her native town in its need. Dr. Capes was right as to the popularity of his
motion. It was received with unanimous approval. Annie, the matron, and the directors of St.
Ebbe's, were immediately applied to in proper form. Annie burned to go, if such a step were
admissible at the present stage of her career. The favour she had won on all sides aided in
the fulfilment of her wishes. She was promoted from the ranks of the probationers to those
of the nurses while yet her year wanted a fraction of its complete round, and was officially
sent down to represent the nurses of St. Ebbe's at Redcross.

"Of course, Dora, you cannot be left behind to go on by yourself hunting for a situation with
three-fourths of the great world out of town. I am afraid you would make a poor job of it at
the best, Dora dear, and at the worst it is not to be thought of; it would be a waste of nerve-tissue
and muscle, as well as of pounds, shillings, and pence. You will come too; we'll be all together,
or nearly together, again, for a holiday, after all."

Dora, who had been waiting patiently for Annie's decision, was nothing loth.

"Rose's expenses and mine are more than paid," calculated the practical Annie, "so that we
shall be no drag on father and mother. I don't know if Robarts's accommodation will extend
beyond the additional bedroom for Rose and May, but that can be easily managed. Oh! I have
it, Dora, you will stay with me at the hospital--the Corn Exchange I mean--and save me from
having a housekeeper for the short time one will be wanted. I'll take care that no infection,
if there be infection, will come near you. Oh, 'won't it be jolly,' as Rose says, for you and
me to keep house by ourselves at dear old Redcross, of all places in the world?"

It was arranged so, with only a little demur from Mrs. Millar, over-ruled by her husband.

