THE VALUE OF A PRAYING MOTHER

BY ISABEL C. BYRUM

GOSPEL TRUMPET COMPANY

First Printing 1911

PREFACE.

This book has a purpose: it is sent forth as precious seed, with the prayer that it will fall
into "good soil" in many hearts and bring forth an hundredfold.

All parents with natural affection desire the best things for their children. Such fathers
and mothers have high hopes that from their home will go forth noble men and women--yes, even
heroes. Many fail to realize the attainment of this ideal in their children, because of a lack
of the knowledge necessary to bring about the desired development in the child-life.

The following pages were written with the fervent hope that they would, at least in some measure,
be a help in developing the young lives entrusted to your care. If your harvest-time is past;
if your children have grown up and have left the old home, you may be able to help some one
who still has little ones to train.

One object in relating actual experiences was that the reader might be guided in the application
of those principles of child-training which, if merely stated in the abstract, might be hard
to understand and difficult of application. The principles herein stated are not mere theories,
but they have the commendation of having stood the test of use. Two other objects of this simple
story of home life are that the thoughtful mother may get a view of the effects of certain
extreme environments on the child-life and, by observing the substantial results accomplished
by a praying mother, she may discover the secret of success.

The incidents of this little home story are all true, even to minute details, as far as memory
serves one of the actors in this drama of home life after the lapse of many years; but as most
of the principal characters are still living, the correct names have, for the most part, been
withheld. Should one of your children ask, "Mama, who was Bessie Worthington?" you can truthfully
answer, "She was a little girl who lived in Michigan; and she and her papa and mama are still
living."

If, by reading this little book, any mother shall see wherein she can improve upon her past
teaching, and thus be able to do more for the spiritual and moral well-being of her children,
the writer will feel amply rewarded. May the blessing of God attend it as it goes forth.

  Yours in Him,
    Isabel C. Byrum.

CONTENTS.

  CHAPTER I.
  Two Scenes

  CHAPTER II.
  A Praying Mother

  CHAPTER III.
  Early Training

  CHAPTER IV.
  God's Care

  CHAPTER V.
  Consecration

  CHAPTER VI.
  Conscience

  CHAPTER VII.
  A Downward Step

  CHAPTER VIII.
  A Wise Decision

  CHAPTER IX.
  Self-Control

  CHAPTER X.
  Parental Control

  CHAPTER XI.
  Christian Experience

  CHAPTER XII.
  The Beautiful Secret

  CHAPTER XIII.
  Blessing and Trial

  CHAPTER XIV.
  The Surprise Party

  CHAPTER XV.
  Leroy's Healing

  CHAPTER XVI.
  Explaining the Divine Life

  CHAPTER XVII.
  Temptations

  CHAPTER XVIII.
  Answers to Prayer

  CHAPTER XIX.
  Lost in the Woods

  CHAPTER XX.
  Novel-Reading

  CHAPTER XXI.
  Glad Tidings

  CHAPTER XXII.
  The Meetings

  CHAPTER XXIII.
  Bessie Sees Her Duty

  CHAPTER XXIV.
  Reverie

  CHAPTER XXV.
  A Plea to Mothers

  CHAPTER XXVI.
  Parental Duty

  CHAPTER XXVII.
  Useful Hints

THE VALUE OF A PRAYING MOTHER

CHAPTER I.

TWO SCENES.

How delightful to step into the home where God is counselor of both parent and child! How blessed
the companionship in such a home! There God counsels in sweet, tender tones. He teaches his
will and gives the needed wisdom. God is man's truest and best teacher. James says, "If any
of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally ... and it shall be
given him." Be the home ever so beautiful, if it is not a house of prayer, it is not a place
of true happiness. Parents should often commune with the Lord; especially the mother, with
her many cares and perplexities, if she would do justice to the little ones entrusted to her care.

A beautiful picture now comes to my mind--a picture of an ideal mother of olden time. She dwelt
in Ramah of Palestine. Her lonely home nestled among the lonely hills. She loved to commune
with the Lord, for deep in her bosom she carried a sorrow that only he could help her to bear.
Her home lacked that sweet sunlight which innocent childhood brings. She longed and prayed
for a little life to guide and direct in the ways of the Lord.

Once every year she went with her husband to Shiloh, where sacrifices were offered, and there
publicly worshiped the Lord. When at the house of the Lord one day, she prayed long and earnestly
that God would grant the desire of her heart.

A scene like this must have been rare even to the priest of God; for he mistook this sad woman
for one drunken with wine. I have very many thanks to return to your Excellence for the honour
you have done me by this visit, and for these expressions of affection and respect to the Protector,
my master. I do acknowledge myself much engaged to the Ricks-Chancellor and senators of Sweden,
and in the first place to her Majesty the Queen, for their favourable respect towards me whilst
I was in my negotiation with them, whom I found full of honour, wisdom,
and justice, in their transactions with me.

Bern. I have been for some time in the service of the Queen, my mistress,
in Germany.

Wh.

You met some of my countrymen in the Court of the Emperor, particularly a noble lord, whom
I have the honour to know.

Bern. I met there the Earl of Rochester, who was at the Diet at Ratisbon.

Wh. What proposals did he make there?

Bern. He made a kind of precarious proposal in the name of the King,
his master.

Wh. Did he obtain what he desired?

Bern. He did not much prevail in it, only he obtained a verbal promise of some money, but had
no performance.

Wh. What occasion hath drawn your General Koningsmark with his forces
at this time before Bremen?

Bern.
It was thus by mistake occasioned. The Earl of Lüneburg had covenanted with the Spanish Ambassador
to levy some soldiers for the service of the King of Spain, which
levies he began without acquainting the Governor of that Circle with
it, who taking this occasion, and bearing ill-will to the Earl, drew
out some forces to oppose those levies.

Koningsmark understanding this, and jealous that the Governor of the Circle designed to fall
upon the fort of the Queen of Sweden in those parts, he drew out some forces to oppose the Governor.
Those of Bremen, being informed that Koningsmark drew out his forces against them, sent some
troops, who forced the Queen's subjects to a contribution and built
a fort upon the Queen's land, which coming to the knowledge of Koningsmark,
and that the Governor of the Circle of Westphalia intended only to
suppress the levies of the Duke of Lüneburg, and not to oppose the
Queen of Sweden, Koningsmark thereupon marched with his forces to
the new fort built by those of Bremen, took it in and finished it,
and left there a garrison for the Queen, not disturbing the trade
of that city.

Wh. Here were mistakes one upon another, which might have engaged that city and the neighbours,
as well as the Crown of Sweden, in a troublesome war.

Bern. All is now peaceable and well again.

They had much other discourse touching the right of the Crown of Sweden to the Duchy of Bremen;
and after many compliments, the Ambassador took his leave.

[SN: Whitelocke visits the fortifications of Hamburg.] About four
o'clock in the afternoon the senator Holtz and an ancient gentleman,
one of the captains of the town forces, came and accompanied Whitelocke,
to show him the town and the fortifications of it, and said that the
Lords had commanded them to do him this service.

Whitelocke went out with them in his usual equipage, his gentlemen walking
before the coach, his pages and lacqueys by it, all bareheaded, and with
their swords. They viewed most parts of the city, the streets, buildings,
public-houses, churches, the arsenal, the fortifications, the ships,
the waters, rivers, and what was remarkable throughout the town.

Great multitudes of people, especially at their Exchange, came forth to see them as they passed by, and
all were very civil to them. To the works a great many of people also followed them, and continued
there with them. They brought him first to see their arsenal, which is a large house; in the
lower rooms thereof lay about two hundred pieces of ordnance mounted on good carriages, fitted and useful.
They were not founded in this place, but brought from other parts; two of them were double cannon,
each carrying a bullet of forty-eight pounds weight; most of the
others were demi-cannon and culverin.

There were besides these many smaller pieces and divers mortar-pieces, some of which were near
as large in the diameter as that at Stockholm. In another place were many shells of grenades
and heaps of cannon-bullets. The pavement of the room was all lead,
two feet deep, in a readiness to make musket bullets if there should
be occasion.

In the rooms above were arms for horse and foot, completely fixed and kept; the greatest part
of them were muskets. Between every division of the arms were representations in painting of
soldiers doing their postures, and of some on horseback. Here were many cuirasses and a great quantity
of corselets, swords, bandoliers, pistols, and bullets. Here likewise
hung certain old targets, for monuments rather than use, and many
engines of war; as, a screw to force open a gate, an instrument like
a jack, with wheels to carry match for certain hours'space, and just at
the set time to give fire to a mine, petard, or the like. There were, in
all, arms for about fifteen hundred horse and fifteen thousand foot. She is her child's book of wisdom, love, and, beauty,
but she should be of God's writing.

CHAPTER II.

A PRAYING MOTHER.

Still another mother comes before my mind--an earnest, zealous, pious mother, who fashioned
her life and example continually by God's Word and endeavored daily to teach her children the
deep truths of salvation in language so simple that they could understand, to seek out the
causes of their failures and discouragements, and to give them timely advice and instruction.

As I trace a few of her experiences, which are all true incidents, I trust they may sink into
some perplexed mother's heart and enable her to wield the instruments of love and prayer about
her darlings and to be more able to guide their tender hearts in the right course.

Mrs. Worthington lived in the great city of Chicago, in a small cottage on Portland Avenue
near Thirty-first Street. Nothing about the dwelling was elaborate; everything was simple,
but very neat. Pretty vines trailed gracefully over the porch and windows, and a few flower
beds filled up the dull nooks and corners. In front of the house was a grassy lawn enclosed
by a picket fence. Here the children could play apart from the rough waifs that thronged the
street. Within the cottage the same quiet taste was in evidence.

Every day in her cozy sitting-room Mrs. Worthington talked with her little girls, Bessie and
Louise. In times of trouble and perplexity she bowed with them in prayer. How much the children
enjoyed their mother's comradeship and counsel! The mother realized the importance of these
early impressions made on the child's mind. She had promised God to do all in her power to
train her children for heaven. She had commenced early, even from the time she had first looked
into the depths of their innocent eyes.

She had taught them that when any trouble arose between them, they were to kneel in prayer
and ask God to help the one who had done wrong. Once she heard Bessie say, "Louise, I have
prayed for you three times, and I believe I shall have to pray for you again." Louise was not
a bad child; she had as sweet and happy a disposition as Bessie; but, as with all small children,
little difficulties arose between them.

Wishing to know what her two little girls would do on such an occasion, she watched them. Bessie
quietly took her little sister's hand, lead her aside, and knelt with her in prayer. Then with
all earnestness she prayed, "O Lord, help Louise to to be good, for Jesus' sake. Amen." The
prayer, though short, was effectual; for both went back to their play with happy faces, and
they had no more trouble that day.

CHAPTER III.

EARLY TRAINING.

As the daily teaching continued, Mrs. Worthington taught her children many helpful lessons.
She told them of the great necessity of a Savior and of his mission to humanity. She taught
them how God looked upon disobedience, and always illustrated her talks with interesting Bible
stories and their every-day experiences. In this way she taught them not only the evil effects
of wrong-doing but also the sure reward of right-doing.

One summer, while the family was spending their vacation in Michigan at the pretty country
home of an aunt, something happened that helped the children to apprehend their mother's meaning.
This incident, although in some measure painful to Mrs. Worthington, impressed the lesson upon
their young minds almost better than anything else could have.

The house was situated upon a hill that sloped gradually down to the shore of a lake. In many
ways this lake was very attractive, especially to the two little girls, who were then at the
ages of two and four years. Mrs. Worthington carefully warned the children of the danger of
playing near the lake shore; but, not realizing the greatness of their temptation, she trusted
them too far. Time after time they made their way down to the water's edge. Something must
be done; but what?

One morning Mr. Worthington noticed his little daughters standing in front of the house. Although
he could not hear their words, he clearly perceived that they were talking about a trip to
the forbidden lake. They hesitated some time, but at last walked slowly down the hillside to
the lake. Again they hesitated. Finally descending the steps of the boat-house, they stepped
into the sparkling water. How dainty the ripples about their feet, and how clear the water!

"Surely there can be no harm or danger," thought Bessie; but she remembered the oft-repeated
warnings of her parents and aunt. The shells lost their beauty when she remembered hearing
her father say that bears sometimes travel up and down the shores. What if a bear should some
that morning? She gave a quick, searching glance among the trees, but, seeing nothing, she
tried to forget about bears. She might have been able to forget about them, but she could not
forget that she was disobedient. Her conscience would not let her; the more she tried to forget,
the louder it talked. She was just about to take her little sister back to the house, when
she heard a rustling among the branches of a tall tree directly above the path over which she
must pass. The next moment she thought she heard a low growl. "O Louise," she cried, "I do
believe that is the bear papa told us about." The tree then began to sway from side to side
and they heard another growl, louder than the first. Seizing her little sister's hand, Bessie
hastened to help her out of the water. By this time both were thoroughly frightened; for while
visiting one of the parks in Chicago once, they had seen a bear hug his keeper until he could
not stand. Bessie remembered the incident and tried to help Louise to hurry; but when the tree
shook again, this time just above her, she screamed wildly and ran a few steps alone. When
she got past the danger-point her reason returned, and, looking back, she saw her sister's
great danger, as she stood just beneath the fatal tree. Rushing back, she almost carried Louise
(while the growling continued), and they were soon up the hill. In the house they told of their
strange experience, the substance of the story being, "The bear; The bear!"

Mr. Worthington soon joined the excited circle and secretly explained to his wife that he had
been the supposed bear and that he had taken this course to teach the children a lesson. His
plan was successful, for after that the children did not care to go to the lake alone.

Mrs. Worthington, however, was very sad because her children had been deceived. Unlike her
husband, who was not a Christian, she believed in keeping the confidence of her children and
in praying with them when they were disobedient. She decided to be more prompt and watchful
in the future and to shield them from temptation as much as possible.

She improved the opportunity for some wholesome instruction. From the stories of Jonah and
King Saul she brought forth some excellent lessons on disobedience. She told the children that,
although they might think when tempted to disobey that nobody saw them, yet there was one whose
eye was ever beholding their deeds, whether good or bad. Then she knelt in prayer with her
children, praying with a full heart to that God who is everywhere present and from whom all
our strength must come, that he would teach her how to guide the precious souls entrusted to
her care.

CHAPTER IV.

GOD'S CARE.

Considering this mother's deep piety, do you think it strange that she saw God's hand in everything
that befell her, and ascribed praise to him for it all?

After the return of the family to their home in Chicago the father became very ill. His sickness
was so severe and so long continued that poverty began to threaten them. Mr. Worthington could
not take the resigned view of their circumstances that his wife took, but often gave way to
complaining. But Mrs. Worthington thanked God that things were no worse and ever encouraged
her husband with the promises that God would provide.

At last Christmas morning came and found them in extreme poverty. Mr. Worthington still weak
from his illness, but able to go around a little, came in from his morning walk very gloomy
and feeling that his friends were very few. "This is the saddest Christmas I have ever known,"
he said to Mrs. Worthington. "It is almost more than I can bear to know that I have nothing
to give the children today, and barely enough in the house to eat. I did not realize it so
keenly until I saw an old man trudging along Thirty-first Street with a large pack upon his
back. That man was surely going to surprise some of his friends. How much we need a friend
like that!" "Never mind," said Mrs. Worthington softly; "God has promised to be a friend in
time of need, and I believe he will care for us today."

As she finished speaking, a rap was heard at the door. Mr. Worthington arose slowly, wondering
who could be their early caller. When he opened the door, he was greatly surprised to see the
aged man with the pack and to find him to be his own father. Mr. Worthington had entered the
house too soon to see his father turn the corner and enter the yard.

As the large burden was laid upon the floor and unpacked, there seemed to be no end to the
good things. A turkey, cake, pies, in fact, all that was needful for a generous Christmas dinner,
as well as a gift for each one. It was a very thankful family that gathered around the table
that day.

CHAPTER V.

CONSECRATION.

In regard to her children, Mrs. Worthington had passed through a deep consecration. She fully
realized that they were only lent her by the Lord, entrusted to her care to be trained for
usefulness in his service, and she was determined to do all in her power to prepare them as
the Lord intended. In all sincerity, she had placed her children upon the altar of consecration,
promising God never to let her will interfere with his designs concerning them.

I do not think a child of God ever makes a consecration that is not tested in some form or
other. This mother's consecration was tested.

A wealthy aunt, having lost all her children and being very lonely, thought to fill the vacancy
in her heart and home by adopting a little child. After several vain attempts to find a suitable
child, she sought the home of her niece, Mrs. Worthington. She came with many misgivings. When
she made her errand known, her niece said: "Auntie, my children are no longer mine; I have
given them to the Lord, and whatever is his will concerning them shall be mine. You will have
to obtain my husband's consent." Thus far Aunt A. was delighted with her success, and she eagerly
sought the father. She tried to point out to Mrs. Worthington, who was heartbroken at the prospect
of losing her child, how abundantly able she (the aunt) was to provide for the child and spoke
of the extreme poverty of the Worthington home. The mother knew all this, but she knew too
that God's Spirit does not always rule in wealthy homes. Would she do right to let her child
slip from under her parental care? Many thoughts of this nature surged through her brain, and
many temptations to say no came to her; but instead of giving a decisive answer she sought
counsel from the all-wise Counselor. While in prayer she thought of faithful Abraham's trial
regarding Isaac, and she felt that God was just as able to carry her through temptation or
test, if she submitted all to his will.

Mr. Worthington gave his consent for one of the children to go for a visit. The aunt having
chosen Bessie, hasty preparations were made for their departure. As the mother kissed her curly-haired
little girl good-by, her heart seemed bursting with sorrow. She tried to control her feelings,
but only God knew the wound that her aunt's parting words made. "Use your influence in my behalf,
Niece, with your husband, in case we want to keep Bessie," she had said, and then the great
train moved slowly from the station. Abraham was all the mother could think of on her return
home. Oh! would God give her back her child?

Letter after letter came, each telling how fond the aunt and her husband were of Bessie and
how happy she was in her new home, but not a word about her return. Four, five, six weeks passed.
Then one day a letter came stating that they had decided not to adopt a child now and that,
as Bessie was getting homesick, the parents might expect her home the next day. Then, it had
been only a test! Oh, how glad Mrs. Worthington was that she had been faithful. Yes, her God
was the very same God that Abraham had served centuries before. It was hard to wait until train-time
the next day. When once more the loving mother held her darling child in her arms, the tears
that could not flow for weeks streamed freely.

Bessie was glad to be at home again. After the cold, formal, loveless life at her aunt's, she
appreciated her own humble home more than ever before.

But a far greater test was waiting the dear mother--one that would call for more than human
strength to bear.

After Bessie's return Mrs. Worthington put forth every effort to teach her children more about
heavenly things. She bore in mind the scripture, "Train up a child in the way it should go;
and when it is old, it will not depart from it." As she did not want to fail along this line,
she spent every spare moment with her children. And she seldom let them go from home to visit
unaccompanied by her; but one day, being very busy, she let them go alone to their grandmother's.
The distance was not great, and Bessie, now nearly six years old, knew the way perfectly. All
would have been well had their grandmother been at home. She being away, the girls stopped
to watch some children at play. These children were breaking old bottles that they had picked
up in the alley. As the little girls stood watching the sport, a large brown bottle was brought
forth and with a heavy stroke of the hammer was broken. Small pieces of the glass flew in every
direction. One piece struck Louise on the palm of the hand just below the thumb, knocking off
the skin, but not producing a wound deep enough to bleed. Her grandmother, who appeared on
the scene just at this time, examined the wound. She though it would soon be all right, but
bound it up with a cloth to satisfy the child. The children played as usual and then returned
home in time for supper.

When they came in, their mother, who had been very busy through the day at housecleaning, was
preparing a hasty supper, and she gave them no special attention. The family were soon seated
around the supper-table. They had not been there long until Mrs. Worthington noticed that Louise
was not eating. She asked the child why she did not eat, but received no reply. On being asked
if her throat was sore, Louise nodded her head. Still the mother did not think the child's
condition serious; and, after pinning a flannel around the child's neck, she did the evening
work and prepared to attend a prayer-meeting. She had noticed the rag upon Louise's hand, but
Bessie had laughed about the little cut and said, "Grandma tied it up just to please Louise."

Although the meeting that night was unusually good, Mrs. Worthington could not forget the expression
on her child's face as they had kissed each other good-by. It seemed to be before her all the
time; so she really felt relieved when the meeting closed and she could return.

Upon entering her home she immediately asked her husband, "How is Louise?" He answered that
she had been very naughty and cross and that he had been obliged to punish her. This news increased
the mother's fears. Feeling of the child's head, she found it hot and feverish.

As Louise continued to grow worse, at two o'clock in the morning Mrs. Worthington thought it
best to examine the child's throat; but when the mother asked the little girl to open her mouth,
she said, "Mama, I can't."

"What!" exclaimed the mother, "you can not open your mouth! Why, child, what is the matter
with you?" Although Louise tried repeatedly to open her mouth, she could force her teeth apart
only about an eighth of an inch, and only with great difficulty could she speak.

By this time Mr. Worthington had fully awakened to the fact that something serious was troubling
his child, and he sprang to her side. As soon as possible they summoned a doctor. He found
that the cut on her hand had caused lockjaw, but said that there was no cause for alarm. The
parents, however, felt very anxious and called in several doctors for consultation. They found
that it was too late to do anything for the child. "The course of this disease," said the doctors,
"is usually very rapid; and we are sorry that we can offer no hope."

When Mrs. Worthington heard the doctors' verdict, anguish such as she had never experienced
before filled her soul. Her thoughts went back to the previous night. Oh! why had she not examined
the child closely then? In her distress she cried to the Lord, saying, "Dear Lord, what can
this mean? Must I go through another test with one of my children? If so, help me to say amen
to thy will!"

Everything possible was done for the comfort of the little sufferer. The little life was swiftly
nearing its close. Even when the doctors injected medicine into her arm to relieve her pain,
she did not murmur. Forgetful for a moment of her suffering, she looked into her mother's eyes
and said, "Mama, I love you"; then turning to her father, "Papa, I love you"; and then to the
doctors and friends, "I like all these folks."

What a beautiful testimony? She had only kindly feelings in her heart for all, even for the
doctors, who seemed to be her enemies. Her words were as a message sent from God as they fell
into that mother's heart. They seemed as sweet incense and a soothing balm to her troubled
spirit. Gazing into the child's face, the mother read of the tender, compassionate love of
God for suffering humanity; she read of the depth of Christ's love for the innocent and pure;
and, by the heavenly smile that lighted the little face as her darling sank into unconsciousness,
she saw that the child realized her Savior's presence.

Slowly the tide is going out; the soul of the child is passing from the mother's presence into
life immortal. "O my darling, speak to me once more!" The large blue eyes slowly unclose; a
look of disappointment comes into them as she says, "Where has Jesus gone?" The dear eyes softly
close; she sinks again into unconsciousness; the beautiful expression of happiness returns;
the mother knows that her darling is in the arms of Jesus and is content.

Mrs. Worthington did not sorrow as those who have no hope; for she knew that her heavenly Father
knew best, and she could look up with confidence and say, "The Lord gave, and the Lord hath
taken away: blessed be the name of the Lord." With the father it was different. Up to this
time he had never had any serious thoughts of a future life. He knew that his wife was a good
woman, but he considered her religious views rather strange. She had seen so much error among
the popular religious denominations and had felt such bondage when meeting with them, that
she worshiped with a few spiritual people in a little prayer-meeting. Because of this peculiarity,
he had even feared that her mind was affected; but now, when he saw her fortitude under deep
trial, he felt that surely there was an unseen power supporting her--a power that he secretly
longed to possess, although the time for attaining it he set indefinitely in the future.

As Louise had been his idol, his grief was deep. It stirred his whole being. Her last testimony
had convinced him that there is a Savior, that he is interested in mankind, and that he is
able to keep in every affliction. Standing by the cold, lifeless form of his little daughter,
he promised God that he would meet her in heaven.

After these things Mrs. Worthington realized more keenly than ever the value of confidence
between children and parents. With renewed energy she sought daily to strengthen that cord
which now seemed to her almost divine. Her daily talks now contained a richer and deeper meaning
to Bessie, whose understanding of heavenly things was growing clearer since her sister's death.
Through her mother's teaching she gained a knowledge of God and spiritual life that would have
taken her many, many years to comprehend had she been left to herself.

Mrs. Worthington was surprised and pleased to note Bessie's confidence in her mother's teaching.
One day, in answer to the assertion of a little neighbor girl that Louise was not alive, but
dead and buried, Bessie said, "I know Sister's body is dead and buried, but her soul is living
with Jesus. He was waiting for her when she died and took her soul away with him."

"I am glad, my child," said her mother, sometime after this conversation, "that you love to
come to me with things that trouble you; for as you're going to school now, you can not help
hearing and seeing many things that I would rather keep from you until you're older. You'll
see and hear many things that you should allow no place in your life; but if you'll always
come to me, I'll instruct you so that they'll not be harmful to you. When I was a child, how
I longed for some one in whom I could confide! My mother was a good woman, but she didn't realize
how I often longed to unburden my heart to her. Father understood this desire, and we often
had confidential talks.

"I shall never forget my gratitude when he took me upon his knee one day and told me about
many dangers young girls must meet and explained how I might avoid them. His words were just
in time; for I had often been allowed to spend the evening at the home of a little friend,
who, like myself, was not taught how to meet danger. At first our play had been innocent sports,
but a short time before my father's talk a cousin had come to board with the family and attend
school. He at once encouraged us to play a game of cards with him. As I knew nothing of the
evil of card-playing, I was eager to learn; for he gave me much praise and allowed me to win
very often, always rewarding me with a pile of candy. The appearance of so much candy in my
possession had led to my father's talk. As father unfolded the nature of card-playing and gambling,
a horror for them that has never left me came into my heart. After this I often sought my father's
counsel; his faithful admonitions and tender words of encouragement caused me to have more
and more confidence in him."

Mrs. Worthington sighed deeply as she continued, "The memory of my dear father is sacred, Bessie.
Many times I've thanked the Lord that my father knew the worth of prayer and the value of the
confidence of his children. He helped me to tide over the most critical period of my life,
and I love to recall the encouragement of his devoted life."

CHAPTER VI.

CONSCIENCE.

One day when Bessie was about eight years old, she said: "Mama, you've often told me that if
I'd listen to the voice of conscience it would keep me out of danger. What is conscience? I
don't understand."

"My dear child," answered her mother, "your happiness depends upon a pure conscience, one that
is void of offense. By the Lord's help, I will gladly explain. Conscience is that which causes
us to feel bad when we do what we've been taught to be wrong. At first it is very tender and
active. Then, no matter how enticing the temptation, the conscience will warn one not to yield.
You've heard your conscience speaking to you, haven't you, Bessie?"

"Yes, Mama," answered Bessie; "that was why I wanted to know more about it. I thought at first
it was some person speaking; but when I remembered you had told me that we each have a conscience
to tell us to do right, I knew it must be the voice of conscience."

"When it speaks, you must listen," said Mrs. Worthington. "Give heed to its warnings. This
little story will show you how careful we should be to heed the warning voice of conscience.

"'Wishing to arise at an early hour each morning, a gentleman purchased an alarm-clock. He
took it home, and, having set it, went to bed and slept soundly. In the morning, to the gentleman's
great delight, the clock aroused him, so that he was able to get to work in time.

"'For a time he would spring out of bed as soon as the alarm sounded, and the clock never failed
to wake him. One morning, however, on hearing the clock sound its usual alarm, he awoke, but,
feeling a little sleepy, he lay back on his pillow, thinking that he would get up in a short
time. In a few minutes he fell asleep, and did not awake again until very late. He dressed
hastily, and, missing his breakfast, hurried away to his work. He resolved not to be so foolish
again, and for a time did better; but in a few days he had again overslept. He became more
and more neglectful, failing time after time to heed the alarm. At length it only partially
aroused him, and he soon slumbered again. Day by day it disturbed him less, until at last it
did not arouse him at all, although it sounded as loudly as ever.'

"So will it be with your conscience. If you don't heed its voice, you'll hear it speaking less
loudly each day until its voice will at last cause you no discomfort. You'll then be in a very
dangerous moral condition. No one but God can help you out. This is one reason why, Bessie,
many people can do things that you can not.

"Satan aimed his first blow at the conscience; for if he can silence it, then he can lead the
soul deeper and deeper into sin."

CHAPTER VII.

A DOWNWARD STEP.

"I have good news for you, Bessie," said Mrs. Worthington as Bessie came skipping into the
room from her play. "Your papa and I have decided to leave our little home here in Chicago
and buy a home in Michigan."

"Oh, how nice!" exclaimed Bessie, who was still in her eighth year. "Shall we live with Aunt
Emma again?"

"Yes, or rather she will live with us," said her mother, smiling. "Your auntie's health is
very poor, and she is tired of the responsibility of farming; so we'll relieve her."

The following weeks were happy ones for Bessie. The Lord had been good to her in many ways.
He had given her a little baby brother to love and care for, and now she was about to have
a pleasant home in the country. She had not forgotten the good times she had enjoyed on the
farm with her little sister, and she was very eager for the month of August to come, the time
when the family was to move. At last the time came to start. With beating heart Bessie counted
the hours that must pass before she could run in the orchard and eat the luscious fruit.

It was late in the afternoon when the Worthington family arrived at their new home. The greetings
over, Bessie was contemplating a ramble where she had noticed some large red apples hanging;
but just then her aunt said, "Bessie, you must not pick any of the fruit on the place this
summer, as the farm is rented and the fruit does not belong to us." This was such a disappointment
to the little girl that she could not restrain her tears.

As the days passed by, she often looked longingly toward the tree where hung the beautiful
apples, but she never once thought of pulling one, for her mother had carefully taught her
the great evil of stealing. "But oh!" thought Bessie, "if only one of the apples would fall
upon the ground, I could pick it up, and I wouldn't be stealing it." With this wish in her
heart, she daily watched the trees in hopes that just one would fall.

At last her hope was realized. Walking through the orchard one day after a hard wind-storm,
she spied several large red apples lying in the soft sand. With a fast-beating heart, she hastened
to pick them all up; and, placing them carefully in her apron, she hurried to the house, oft
repeating to herself, "I didn't steal them, for the wind blew them off."

As she entered the house, she began to tell how she came by the apples, but stopped in dismay,
for she saw her mother's look of disapproval. Very tenderly Mrs. Worthington took her little
daughter aside and, sitting down by her, said: "My dear, you don't understand what you've done:
those apples are as truly stolen as if you had picked them from the tree. You must take them
to Mrs. S. and explain that you didn't know you were stealing them. Taking little things and
trying to ease the conscience by saying, 'It doesn't amount to anything,' causes the conscience
to fall asleep and to cease its activity. Thus the evil habit of taking what doesn't belong
to us becomes a part of our nature, and step by step we fall into greater sin.

"I once heard of a young man who was about to be hanged upon the gallows. Just before the fatal
moment he received permission to speak to any of his friends, if he desired. Calling for his
aunt, who had reared him, he moved forward as if to speak to her, but instead he bit off her
ear. Amid the exclamations of horror that followed, the young man said: 'You think what I have
done is cruel. Let me tell you that, had my aunt done her duty by me, I should not be here
today. Had she taken the pains to inquire where I obtained the lead pencils, knives, handkerchiefs,
and other small articles which I brought home from time to time; had she not accepted the flimsy
excuse that I had found them; had she warned me of my danger, and not praised me for "finding"
the things I had stolen,--I might have escaped this awful end.'

"So, Bessie, you can see the danger of allowing anything like this--though it does appear a
trifle--to pass by unnoticed. You may go and return the apples to Mrs. S., who is now in the
orchard."

The lesson was severe and lasting; and as Bessie returned the apples to their rightful owner,
it settled deep into her heart.

Parents, beware. Through neglect, the habit of lying begins. An untruth is passed over carelessly
and the child allowed to cover up its sins without realizing their sinfulness. Likewise, many
other evil habits that have wrecked lives and brought sorrow and disgrace into homes may be
traced to the same carelessness on the part of parents and friends.

CHAPTER VIII.

A WISE DECISION.

The lake in front of the Worthington home, though nearly five miles in length, had too small
a harbor to permit the entrance of the large Chicago boats. It was therefore necessary, each
evening in summer, for small steamboats to gather up the fruit from the farms along the lake
and to carry it to the nearest port for large steamers. It was interesting to see the piles
of berry crates loaded upon the steamer from the docks extending out into the lake. At such
times a crowd of young people frequently arranged to go for a pleasant ride on Lake Michigan,
and a few times Bessie had gone.

There was to be such an excursion on the occasion of which I wish to speak, and the young people
expected to attend a circus in a city close to the haven to which they were going. Bessie wished
very much to go. She soon obtained her father's consent, but went to her mother with many misgivings,
for she knew that her mother never went to a circus and that she had always spoken against
her going at other times.

Mrs. Worthington was very busy, but she always had time to advise her daughter and to hear
her requests. She listened carefully to every word her daughter had to say, and then remained
silent for a few minutes. At length she said: "Bessie, there are many things to consider about
your going. You know how I love to have you go for a ride on the water when I know you are
in good company. I also love to have you attend places of interest to you, when I know there's
nothing to defile your mind or lead you from the path of purity. But, Daughter, there are many
things in the world that look beautiful to the eye but tend to lead the soul astray. Do you
think Jesus would go to a circus? Do you think you could get any good should you go? You have
passed your tenth birthday. I think you're old enough to take this matter to God in prayer
and let him decide it for you. Go and ask him to direct you to some passage of Scripture that
will open your understanding and help you to know what he wants you to do."

"Oh, mama," said Bessie, who had felt strange about the matter, "please tell me yes or no,
and I'll say no more about it."

"No, Bessie; it will, in many ways, be better for you to do as I've said," answered her mother
tenderly but decisively.

Very reluctantly Bessie left the room, and, taking her Bible, whispered a prayer that she might
open it to something that would help her to decide. As she opened the book, her eyes fell upon
these words: "Vanity of vanities, saith the preacher, vanity of vanities; all is vanity." Hurriedly
she turned the pages, thinking that she might perhaps have opened to that passage anyway. Returning
to her mother, she read the words, but ended by saying, "I might have turned to that anyway."

"Bessie," said Mrs. Worthington, "those words were written by the wisest man the world has
ever known, one who had the privilege of enjoying every known pleasure under the sun. But when
he had tried them all, he sat down and wrote the words you have just read, and also said, 'All
is vanity and vexation of spirit.' Now you have my view of the subject, and you have Solomon's;
but if you are still in doubt, go and pray."

Bessie was not satisfied. She slipped away the second time and fell upon her knees. She cried,
"O Lord, you once answered Gideon with a sign; now please give me a sign and help me to know
whether I should stay at home or not. If you don't want me to go, make it rain." Though simple
and short, the prayer came from the heart. She was determined to know God's will concerning
her; and to such God never turns a deaf ear.

The next morning she went to the door and looked at the sky. The day was perfect. The sun was
shining brightly, and a cool, gentle breeze was blowing. Just one tiny cloud was in the sky,
and that seemed to be floating toward the sun. As she watched the cloud, she saw it gradually
increase in size, and at last down came the rain in great drops. Nothing further was needed
to convince Bessie that God wanted her to remain at home; and now her staying was no longer
a cross to her.

She ran to her father and explained that God did not want her to go, telling him about her
prayer and its answer. Her childish words and simple faith touched her father's proud heart,
but all he said was, "It's all right, Bessie; but you'll go down to the landing and say good-by
to your friends, won't you?"

As she told the girls why she could not go with them and watched the gay party leave the shore,
she was not sad, but happy. She kept thinking how kind the dear Lord had been to answer her
prayer so wonderfully. When bedtime came, she rested sweetly, having no wounded conscience
to trouble or accuse her.

But how about the excursion party? They had an ideal trip on Lake Michigan, attended the show,
and started to return. The breeze that had been so gently blowing through the day began to
increase at sunset, and by the late hour of their return it had become a gale. But not realizing
the fierceness of the storm, they started home. When they reached their own harbor, they found
that they could not enter with safety; so they anchored the boat and spent the remainder of
the night on the wildly tossing waves. In the morning the wind gradually died away, and the
weary, seasick crowd made their way home.

When Bessie learned of their serious experience, she appreciated more than ever the Lord's
goodness in leading her to stay at home.

CHAPTER IX.

SELF-CONTROL.

Mrs. Worthington was greatly encouraged when she saw what a blessing her little girl had received
from what appeared to be a sore trial. She felt that the time was opportune to plant the seed
of self-control within the young heart. In a little while she found an opportunity to begin.

"Bessie," she began when ready for the talk, "I have some important things to tell you today.
I wish to speak of your future. There comes a time in the life of every girl when she must
change from childhood to womanhood; she can not always remain a child. Until this time arrives,
she is very dependent and must lean entirely upon her parents' advice; but as her mind begins
to mature, she should be taught the necessity of weighing matters well and of finding out God's
will.

"Until the present time all you have done has been at the suggestion of your parents, but it
will be different in the future. With your teaching, you are able to look to God for a part
of your direction. I shall continue to advise, and, if necessary, to punish you; but I want
you to take things to the Lord in prayer and become satisfied within your heart that my advice
is according to the Word of God. You must not think you haven't needed the teaching and the
guidance you've had thus far in life; and you'll need more careful training than you've ever
had. The point I want to impress upon your mind is that there's an element within you, called
self, that you must learn to control. At times self will arise and cause you to feel that you
know some things even better than Mama. That is the time to remember that Mama has had more
experience than you; that her judgment is better than yours; and that you must rely upon it
until God helps you to see a matter as she sees it. That was the way you gained the blessing
from that experience a few days ago. In this way you will learn the lessons that are so important
to your future.

"There are many other things, my dear, that I want to talk to you about soon, but you must
be patient a little longer. In the meantime, however, you may ask me any question you please,
and I'll answer you. Don't go to other girls with these things, but come to me. I'm always
glad to explain to you anything that seems strange. When you're old enough to desire the knowledge
and to form the questions, you're old enough to receive an answer to your questions. Come to
me often: what seems strange to both of us we can take to God in prayer, and let him teach us.

"Another thing you must do is to turn away from bad associates. Avoid girls who say, 'I'll
tell you something if you'll promise not to tell your mother.' Remember that anything you could
not tell me would not be worth hearing; for it's sure to be something unclean or vulgar. Conversing
with such girls won't help you to draw close to the Lord nor to know his will concerning you.
Much less would it help you to meditate upon the pure and holy things of God. To elevate your
soul, Bessie, you must become serious, and seek only those companions whose conversation is
kind, gentle, and modest. I believe your desire is to become more like Jesus and to prepare
for heaven. So, my child, meditate upon God, and you will grow in the grace and knowledge of
Christ. Misspent moments are so much of life and character thrown away; be careful to use them
all in God's service.

"Here's a little poem you may learn. It may help you to control self and to value your moments
as you should."

MY MOMENTS.

Oh, my precious little moments,
  Gliding now so swiftly by;
May I each one spend for Jesus
  Ere I see them past me fly.

May I lade each one with something
  To be borne to God above,
Fill each full of deeds worth counting,
  That will prove my perfect love.

For I would not have them enter
  Through those portals bright and fair
Bearing not a single token
  For my Master waiting there.

Golden moments, as you carry
  Trophies on your upward flight,
Take my character to Jesus;
  For I've kept it clean and white.

CHAPTER X.

PARENTAL CONTROL.

Mrs. Worthington was not only a prayerful mother, but a mother wise in home government. Her
wisdom, however, came from God. After she had spent a season in prayerful meditation, God would
supply the words and understanding. Thus she could say with the apostle Paul, that her strength
was made perfect in weakness, because her dependence was in Christ.

O mothers, let us learn that God, the Author of home and families, is always interested in
the quality and the training of the children. He does not create to cast aside. Neither does
anything come by chance. He wills that each tender human plant be nourished and cherished until
well fitted to fill its place and calling in life. In childhood's dependent days, the parents
should be all to the children that they can not be to themselves. It is not enough that your
child be well fed and clothed; its young mind must be guided into proper channels. What work
is more noble, more elevating than the teaching of the undeveloped mind? Let not the duties
of life nor the claims of society so press upon you as to cause you to neglect your child's
character or its education in either temporal or spiritual matters.

As Solomon says, "Take away the little foxes that destroy the vines." It is the little things
passed carelessly by that grow larger and larger, and stronger and stronger, within the young
heart until at last the unsuspecting parents awake in alarm to behold their child in dreadful
bondage. Beware! Guard your child every moment it is under your care. You can not go as companion
to your child upon the street or to school, but your influence may attend his every path through
life. Do not be discouraged should you hear him use a slang word, but take him at once and
tenderly tell him what slang phrases will lead to. Do not speak harshly, but explain in the
most loving manner possible. In this way you will cultivate in him a distaste for impure language.
A pure, refined nature will be the result. Moreover, as that child realizes through your faithful
instruction, the true meaning of sin, he will make you his confidant and will come to you rather
than seek the counsel of younger companions. Thus you will be able to control his mind and
to instil within his mind pure and upright desires.

Within your home is the place to shine for God. There is no greater field of labor. A Christian
mother's influence among the young can not be too highly valued. No one can fill your place
in the hearts of your children. Another can provide their temporal needs, but nobody can take
the place of Mother. No one else can enter into the daily trials as you can. Nothing else can
soothe the wounded feelings as well as a tender embrace or a word from mother. Be liberal,
dear mothers, with these tokens of sympathy, so sweet to your child; and think not for one
moment that you are not fulfilling God's plan concerning you or that moments thus spent are
wasted. It is only a short time at best that we can be blessed with the privilege of instructing
our children.

CHAPTER XI.

CHRISTIAN EXPERIENCE.

As Bessie grew older, Mrs. Worthington chose the twilight hour for confidential talks with
her daughter. Both looked forward to these times with pleasure. Each evening after the daily
duties were ended, Bessie might be found sitting at her mother's feet. Here she related the
many happenings of the day and in turn received instruction and advice from the one who held
her confidence. Here the mother taught her child the secret of true devotion. She instructed
Bessie that prayer, good reading, and meditation are the keys to use to unlock God's great
storehouse of blessings. She pointed to the Bible as a pattern by which to fashion one's life,
pointing out to her the many scriptures bearing upon different subjects and telling her how
every modest, earnest Christian ought to dress and act in order to adorn the gospel of Christ.
She encircled the word "purity" with such a halo of glory that she awakened within the heart
of her child a determination ever to live so pure a life that she would not only keep herself
stainless but also help others to that sacred and elevated plane.

Upon one of these occasions, when Bessie was in her twelfth year, she said: "Mama, why don't
we go to the meetings that are being held at the schoolhouse on Sunday? The girls have asked
me several times, and I have told them I didn't know. They have a minister from a distance,
and he has taken the names of all who want to join the church."

"That is a deep subject, my child," said Mrs. Worthington. "I have often wished to explain
to you my reasons for not attending the public services held in our neighborhood by the different
denominations, but have feared you were still too young to understand, for the matter seems
hard even for some older persons to comprehend. But I will tell you and trust the Lord to make
it plain.

"My parents taught me that it was my duty to attend religious services at least once a week.
This I did, and professed to be a Christian until I was a young woman. I knew that I loved
the Lord and wanted to do right, but found that I could not always do right in my own strength.
I was daily doing things that displeased the Lord. I became so troubled about my condition
that one day I went to the minister, and, telling him how I felt, requested him to pray for
me and to help me to get a real Bible experience. In answer to my request, he only smiled and
said, 'You are too particular. You might as well try to split a hair as to try to live a holy
life in this world.'

"As I returned home that day, I was very sad indeed. Oh, how much I longed to be like Jesus,
whom God had given me as an example! I knew the Bible taught that if we expect to enter heaven
we must live a pure and holy life. I was determined to do this--but how was I to do it? To
whom could I go for help? Most of the church-members were so worldly-minded they thought of
little else than a good time, and the few spiritual ones were afraid to tell how they felt,
for fear of their minister's displeasure.

"At last I decided to seek from God and his Word what my soul was longing for. As I sought,
I began to see I had been deceived. I found that as God looked upon mankind, he could see only
two classes of people--the righteous and sinners; and I saw that I was a sinner.

"By reading the twelfth chapter of First Corinthians, I learned that Christ's body is the church;
that to become a member of the church my name must be written in heaven; that every Christian
in the world is my brother or sister in Christ; the Lamb's book of life is the only class-book
in which our names need to be recorded; and that our names are removed only because of our
turning again to sin. To me these thoughts were both new and marvelous. I saw that every saved
person in the different denominations is a Christian and a member of God's true church, but
I knew that such persons were unable to worship God aright for fear of displeasing their ministers
or of breaking some of the church-rules. And when I read in 2 Cor. 6:14 that we are not to
be unequally yoked together with unbelievers, I felt that I must come out and stand alone.
This I promised God to do at any cost, and asked him to give me a Bible experience. He answered
my prayer; and I was so happy that I walked the floor for a long time, clapping my hands and
praising God.

"Because of the course I had taken many misunderstood me and thought I was partially insane.
Even your dear papa thinks so still, but I dare not grieve God by going back.

"I have had some dreams that have greatly encouraged me. The first was given while I was wondering
why I could not find any one who believed the whole Bible. I seemed to be standing in a meeting-house;
the service was ended and nearly every one had gone home. I noticed a woman in great distress.
Going to her, I found that she had a very sore hand and that she was alone, with no one to
help her home through the darkness. With her consent, I quickly picked her up in my arms and
carried her safely through a long, dark, narrow passage. As we passed along, I spoke words
of encouragement to her. Suddenly we came out into a large open field carpeted with flowers,
and there I laid her down, saying, 'How nicely we have gotten along alone.' Then I awoke.

"For some time I could not see the meaning of the dream. At last I understood that the afflicted
woman was I myself and that the Savior wanted to carry me through the dark and dangerous way
of life alone.

"At another time I dreamed I was riding on a locomotive. Again I was alone. The seat that I
was sitting on was so small I had to be very careful lest I be injured by the machinery around
me. I didn't think of danger while the train was in motion; but as it drew up at a certain
station, I began to consider my position. The thought came, 'What will people think of me?
They will certainly say I am stealing a ride.' I remembered my ticket, and, placing my hand
upon it, I felt satisfied. At the next station I could see inside of the passenger coaches.
I had a good view of the passengers in one of the coaches, and I recognized the prominent members
of the denomination I had lately left. As they sat in their cushioned seats, carelessly talking
to one another, they all seemed happy and contented. My own condition then arose before me,
and I felt lonely indeed and thought, 'I will step down from my little seat and enter the coach
with the rest.' I was just about to do this--even had my hand upon the door knob--when I realized
that I had left my dress in the little seat, and again I awoke.

"The dream seemed very plain in every way. My ticket was my experience and title to heaven,
and the dress left up in the tiny seat was the robe of Christ's righteousness. While alone
and contented, I was all right, but to return to the denomination would mean to leave both
robe and title behind.

"Still, God has given me some devoted Christian friends, who are willing to live as the Bible
directs, and with these I worship as you know, dear, in our little weekly prayer-meetings.
I trust that some day your father will see and will understand me better, and that we can worship
God together. But I will be faithful even though I should be forced to walk alone.

"Now, dear, I trust you can see that the true church is Christ's body and that every soul is
a member as long as he continues to live a pure and holy life. Whether he is a member of some
sect or not, sin will cut him off; and if he continues to profess as I did, he is a hypocrite
in God's sight. 'Come out from among them and be ye separate' is a command that every Christian
should obey."

CHAPTER XII.

THE BEAUTIFUL SECRET.

The mother's talks about her own Christian experience enabled Bessie to understand the beautiful
secret of salvation--an influence that was to beautify her character and to mold her whole
subsequent career. Bessie's developing mind was able to grasp firmly the golden thread of religious
truth, which, unraveling from the tangle of sectism, had guided her faithful mother into the
fulness of divine truth.

Thus it was--

    In the gentle hush of evening,
      When the sun sank in the west;
    When the little bird was nestling
      In its quiet, sheltered nest;
    When the stars were brightly shining
      From the lofty sky above,
    Bessie learned the lovely secret
      Of her Savior's perfect love.

    In the twilight's deep'ning shadows,
      At her loving mother's feet,
    Sat she often on a hassock,
      Hearing words of counsel sweet.
    Sacred season was this hour
      To the twain in waiting there,
    Each the burden of the other
      Sought to know and ofttimes share.

    As the loving mother listened
      To the record of the day,
    To the questions of her daughter--
      Spoken oft in childish way,
    She in tenderness instructed
      With the wisdom of the Lord,
    Gained by prayer and careful study
      Of his precious, holy Word.

    There the character was strengthened;
      Bessie's heart was made to feel
    Greater love for her Creator,
      For his work a deeper zeal.
    And she saw God's plan for pardon,
      To the feet of Jesus came,
    And was able, like her mother,
      Full salvation then to claim.

    Ah! fond mother, learn the secret
      That will win thy children dear;
    Draw them gently to thy bosom,
      Ever seek their hearts to cheer.
    From thy home exclude all worry,
      Fretful cares, and sad'ning gloom;
    But God's sunshine bid a welcome,
      Let it shine in ev'ry room.

    As a spring within a desert,
      Thou mayst water each plant small;
    But the plant itself must blossom--
      Thou canst tend it, that is all.
    Tiny human plants will flourish
      In an atmosphere like this,
    And will yield good, fruitful blossoms
      That will bring true happiness.

    Children always thirst for knowledge,
      And ere long 'tis surely gained;
    If not from a faithful mother,
      'Tis from evil source obtained.
    Blameless never is the mother
      Who will not the trouble take
    To instruct her precious children,
      Close companions of them make.

    Like a florist wise and zealous,
      Guard thou well each blossom fair,
    Lest the perfume and the sweetness
      Vanish for the lack of care.
    Choose thou then some place at even
      When the daily toils are done,
    Where life's many cares and blessings
      May be numbered one by one.

    God will give thee wisdom, mother,
      To supply thine ev'ry need,
    As thou givest wholesome knowledge,
      When the childish voices plead.
    Their young minds, so pure, unfolding,
      Will reveal the secret fair
    That will prove how great the value
      Of a mother's love and pray'r.

CHAPTER XIII.

BLESSING AND TRIAL.

Now that Bessie had learned the secret of a Christian life, she longed to see others enjoying
the love of God. She felt the greatest burden for her father. Oh, if she could see him enjoying
salvation! She often poured out her desire in prayer, with childlike trust and confidence.
God heard her prayers.

One morning as she was passing the barn on her way to school, she heard some strange sounds.
Peering through a window, she beheld a sight that made her wonder if she saw aright. There
stood her beloved father, great tears streaming from his eyes, his countenance beaming with
heavenly peace and joy, and praises to God pouring from his lips. What did it mean? In a weak
voice she said, "Papa dear, what is the matter!"

Turning he exclaimed: "Oh, Bessie, God has saved me! I am so happy! Run quick and tell your
mother!" Bessie ran to the house to tell the glad news, but her father was there nearly as
soon, saying, "Oh, I'm saved! You're right, wife. I know now that you're right, and I see things
just as you do! I'm so happy and feel so different. Oh, help me to praise the dear Lord."

Let us leave them in their happiness and follow Bessie to school. Her father's words rang as
sweet music in her ears. How good the dear Lord was to answer her in her father's behalf! She
felt that no good thing would be withheld from them that walk uprightly. But Bessie was soon
to meet a severe and unexpected trial.

Her mother had made her a school-dress. Though neat and pretty, it was of a material commonly
used for men's shirts. Bessie knew this, but thought nothing of it until some of her schoolmates
gathered round her at recess and said, "O girls, Bessie has a new dress like her father's shirt."
Another said, "Perhaps it is his shirt." The remarks were certainly unkind, and Bessie felt
them keenly; but she laughed and said, "Yes; I know it." Nothing more was said. But oh, that
dress! How she disliked to wear it! At times she could hardly start to school with it on; but
then she would think, "I know Mama thought it was pretty when she got it for me; and I thought
it was nice until the girls made those remarks. I will try to like it for Mama's sake." 

With the introduction of larch about the end of last century, which soon became, and deservedly,
a favourite in the Highlands, it unhappily was used as a single belting in exposed places near
farm houses and steadings. The consequence, as every one who travels through the Highlands must
be painfully conscious of, has been trees shapeless and crooked, giving no shelter, and unpleasing
in view.

A ludicrous illustration of this may be seen from the Highland Railway between Forres and Dunphail,
the larches having grown up zig-zag, according as the several winds happened to prevail. It is
well known that no regular plantation can in beauty equal a natural one. There is too much
stiffness and form, but the man of taste will avoid straight lines, and utilize the undulations
of the land, blending the landscape as it were into one harmonious
whole.

Let us now in the last place look at the pecuniary results. The enclosure, drainage, and planting
will of course vary according to locality and the nearness to sources of supply and labour,
but it may be said that£ 3 sterling per acre is a very ample sum
for all costs.

If there were one great block of plantation, it would not amount to one-half. Returns, again,
must also vary, depending on proximity to railway or sea-board, but we have heard it stated by those
well qualified to give an opinion, that from 30s to£ 2 per acre per annum will be an ultimate
probable return. When it is considered that the lands we have referred to, putting both pastoral
and shooting rents together, will not approach six shillings per
acre per annum, the pecuniary advantages are seen to be enormous.

[A]
No life insurance policy is equal to a large and judicious plantation
by a proprietor, as a provision for his younger children.

    The premium in this case will
    not need to run longer than twenty-five
    years, and he has not only beautified
    his estate and made it more valuable, but also transmitted it to
his heir without incumbrance.

No wonder then that in the county of Inverness large proprietors, such as the Earl of Seafield,
Mackintosh, Sir John Ramsden, and others, have taken this matter up on a great scale. To them
large plantations ought to be in the same category as minerals are in England; and, unlike their
English brethren, this source of wealth is not exhaustive but re-current.

To the public these plantations are not only objects of beauty and
an amelioration of climate, but the thereby greatly increased wealth
of the country ensures diminished taxation.

These remarks are purposely made in the simplest language, because chiefly intended to attract the
intelligent attention of the commonality of the people resident in,
or connected with, the Highlands, and the subject will be again brought
up.

C. F.-M. FOOTNOTES: [Footnote A: According to present and approved
modes of valuation, no great time need elapse after planting before the
wood becomes of admitted value. Ten years after, the valuation will,
if the wood be thriving, equal three times the original cost, including
interest and rent.] MONTROSE AT INVERLOCHY.

[WE consider ourselves and our readers very fortunate indeed in having
procured the following as the first of a series of contributions from
Mr William Allan, Sunderland, whose recent publication— "Heather Bells,
or Poems and Songs"— has been so favourably received by the Reviewers.

A prior publication— "Hame-spun Lilts"— was also well received.

Of the author, the Inverness Courier of 19th August, says— "You will fail, if you try, to find from
first to last the slightest imitation of a single one of the many
that, within the last hundred years, have so deftly handled the Doric
lyre.

Before the appearance of this volume, Mr Allan was already favourably known to us as the author
of'Hame-spun Lilts,'' Rough Castings,'and by many lively lilts besides
in the poets'column of the Glasgow Weekly Herald.

There is about everything he has written a sturdy, honest, matter-of-fact
ring, that convinces you that, whether you rank it high or low, his
song— like the wild warblings of the song-thrush in early spring—
is from the very heart. "Dancing is an amusement
that many girls consider very attractive. When asked why they think so, they hardly know what
to answer, but generally speak of the music and the graceful motions."

"Oh, Mama, the motions they made at the party last night were anything but graceful. I know
you wouldn't have allowed me to do as they did, and I don't want to. It wasn't modest. I never
want to go to a dance again."

"I'm so glad, Bessie, you feel as you do about dancing; but, dear, to those who learn, there
is something very fascinating about it. Some girls have said they would rather dance than eat;
and, with a great many, I believe it is true.

"Men of low character and of evil inclinations regard the dance-hall as a favorable place to
betray unsuspecting girls and frequent it for that very purpose. Their victims are usually
the sweetest and most trusting girls. Their beauty attracts undesirable attention, and their
ignorance makes them an easy prey. O Bessie, there are so many unprincipled men in the world
who love to win and betray the confidence of young innocent girls.

"Philosophers tell us that 'perfect happiness comes only from a pleasure attractive to our
moral nature in its purity and perfection. If we delight in pleasures of the other sort, our
moral natures are degraded.'

"You have noticed the immodest positions taken by those who dance, and you feel a deep sense
of shame for them. Should you try to partake of their pleasure, your moral nature would be
degraded, and you would in time lose that sense of shame and be as eager for the pleasure as
any of the others. Thus yielding, one step at a time, you would cease to look upon the dance
as immodest and would find real enjoyment in it, and perhaps would be led into greater sin.
It is in this way that many girls lose their virtue. Then they are shunned by their old associates,
who are really but a step higher in morality. Forsaken by friends, hopeless as to their future,
deserted even by those who wrought their downfall, these poor girls sink lower and lower, and
lead lives of shame and misery.

"No spiritual-minded person will take part in worldly amusements, for he can not enjoy them.
Christians who indulge in dancing turn away from God and seek fellowship with the world. Such
are sure to lose the grace of God from their hearts."

CHAPTER XV.

LEROY'S HEALING.

Bessie's little brother, Leroy, now past five years of age, was far from being rugged. Though
he had a full, round face and a large head, his body was emaciated and did not develop properly.
He could go only a few steps without falling. He had fainting spells, which gradually increased
in frequency and duration.

Many times as Mrs. Worthington looked at her poor little boy, she lifted her heart to God in
earnest prayer to know his will concerning the child. Many friends remarked that she would
never be able to bring him up; but she knew that, if for the best, God could heal the child
and give him right development.

At last his illness became very serious. One night his head was burning with fever, while his
body was cold and clammy. It seemed but a question of time until he would pass away.

As Mrs. Worthington looked at her child, she remembered the words, "Man's extremity is God's
opportunity," and "The prayer of faith shall save the sick." She wondered why God had brought
them to her mind. She began to ask herself: "Do I believe that God can heal that child? If
it is God's will to take him, can I submit?" To the first question she answered, "Yes; God
made him," and to the second, "Thy will be done, O God." Then she breathed an earnest prayer
for his healing. The sweet assurance came that her prayer was answered; that the child would
grow well and strong. She felt that she could lie down by his side and trust him in the hands
of the One who gave him.

She placed a wet cloth on his head, lay down by his side, and knew no more until the next morning.
Both slept soundly. When she awoke, she saw that the child was breathing naturally and that
the fever was entirely gone. Then she fully realized that God had healed him. With a grateful
heart she thanked the Lord for his tender love. It was indeed true that Leroy was well. About
ten o'clock his mother carried him to the lake and, having Bessie to row the boat, gave him
a pleasant boat-ride. The fever never returned; his head stopped growing; and he became a strong,
healthy boy. The friends who had thought that he would surely die said they could not understand
the change that had taken place, but Mrs. Worthington understood, and gave God all the praise.

CHAPTER XVI.

EXPLAINING THE DIVINE LIFE.

After Bessie's conversion Mrs. Worthington's talks to her were often on the subject of the
divine life within--how to care for it and nourish it, so that it might not die nor become
blighted. She sometimes compared the young Christian's experience to that of a new-born babe.
"You know," said she, "the little one must be carefully fed, and tenderly guarded against everything
harmful. Even a slight breeze blowing upon its little body, if unprotected, might result in
death. But as the child grows older and stronger, it gradually becomes accustomed to the rude
elements about it and can, with comparative safety, be brought in contact with them. The Christ
life, new-born in the human heart, is just as sensitive and needs the same tender care. Guard
it carefully, Bessie. It must be constantly nourished by prayer and the Word of God. Seek to
become established by the grace of sanctification; then you will be better able to meet temptation
and persecution. Christ is your shepherd, and he wants to lead you, his lamb, into green pastures
and beside still waters.

"A person may profess to be a Christian, Bessie; but unless he has a change of heart and affections,
he is what the Bible terms a wolf in sheep's clothing, and not one of the gentle lambs of the
Savior's fold. The profession does not amount to anything when the heart is full of envy, hatred,
jealousy, love of self, and a drawing toward the world. A person with a profession only, may
appear for a time to be quite lamb-like; but sooner or later the old nature will manifest itself,
for it can not be hidden long."

"I think, Mama," said Bessie, "I understand you--but you spoke of the experience of sanctification;
please tell me what that means."

As briefly as possible, the mother explained that the second cleansing of the heart takes away
that evil nature which causes man to want to disobey God.

Not long after this talk Bessie had an experience in school that helped her to comprehend her
mother's words. To be put back in her studies was hard, but to have to give up her old teacher,
to whom she was strongly attached, was harder still. Her regret on the latter account, however,
was of short duration; for her new teacher was even more lovable than the old one, and, best
of all, she was a Christian. She and Bessie not only got along well, but became warm friends
and enjoyed sweet fellowship in the Spirit. One day, however, something happened that severely
tested their love, but, in the end, only deepened it.

Bessie's seatmate, a girl named Nora, about Bessie's own age, was very mischievous. She did
so many things deserving punishment that the teacher was often perplexed to know what course
to take with her. Some one has said that "misery likes company." This was certainly true of
Nora. She knew that the teacher and Bessie were good friends, and she longed to see Bessie
get into trouble and receive some punishment. Knowing that Bessie tried hard to obey the rules
of the school, Nora saw that she should have to lay some cunning plan or she should not realize
her wish. She began to watch for an opportunity.

A streamlet ran past the schoolhouse. While Bessie and Nora were playing near it one day, Bessie
fell down in some mud. Just as she fell, the school-bell rang and they had to hurry back to
their lessons. Fearing that some of the mud might have splattered on her face, Bessie asked
if her face was clean. Nora answered quickly, "Oh yes; do hurry up." Nora felt that her chance
had come, and she made up her mind to get her seatmate into trouble, if possible. Hurrying
into the schoolroom, she whispered to one of the boys, telling him to ask Bessie as she passed
what was the matter with her face, but to say nothing more. When Bessie came down the aisle,
she saw this boy looking at her with an amused expression, and gave him close attention. As
she passed him, he whispered, "Bessie, what is the matter with your face?" and then turned
quickly away. Fully convinced that her face was dirty, Bessie sat down very much ashamed. Nora
knew how her seatmate would feel and prepared herself for the question that she was sure would
be asked. As it was time for the writing-lesson, she stuck her finger in inks of different
colors; and, when Bessie asked where her face was dirty, she quickly pointed out the places,
each time leaving a large spot of ink. Bessie, wholly unconscious of the ink-spots on her face,
thought what a dreadful sight she must be, and asked permission of the teacher to wash. When
the teacher turned, she saw, not mud, but ugly ink-spots. Supposing that Bessie had put them
there, she shook her head. Her surprise was great. She felt that she ought to do something
about it; but, being undecided, she turned away.

Bessie became much worried; for many eyes were turned upon her, and some of the pupils were
laughing. She wanted to hide, but could not, and kept wondering why a little mud should cause
so much amusement. One girl, Anna, tried secretly to pass her a wet handkerchief, but this
Nora quickly caught from her and hid. Poor Bessie was now ready to cry, and again asked permission
to wash her face; but her teacher answered, "No; you must go to writing."

Bessie naturally had a high temper and was inclined to be stubborn when she felt that she was
being imposed upon; but she had always held her temper in subjection, as she knew it to be
wrong to give way to anger. On this occasion, however, it seemed impossible to control herself.
When the teacher said, "Go to writing," Bessie obeyed; but she was so angry that she hardly
knew what she was doing. Suddenly she thought, "If I daub a lot of ink on my face, perhaps
she will let me wash"; and she rubbed some on with her finger. But alas! this did not work
as she had expected. The teacher saw her put it on and concluded that she had put the other
on also; so she said, "Bessie, you may go and sit in my chair." As she said this, all the stubbornness
in Bessie's nature arose. She did not move; and when the teacher said sternly, "Are you going
to obey?" she shook her head and caught hold of the seat. At this moment Nora whispered, "If
that were me, she'd make me go." The teacher heard the words and looked first at Nora and then
at Bessie. She hesitated for a moment, then walked over to Bessie, took her by the shoulders
and jerked her from the seat, and then dragged her up to the chair and set her down, telling
her to study. "I have no book," retorted Bessie. The teacher ordered one brought, and, leaving
her, went to her other duties.

What a moment for Bessie! Too angry to study, she sat there thinking of the dreadful scene
she had created. Her heart burned with shame. Oh! what could she do?

Anna, the girl who had tried to hand her the wet handkerchief, had noticed all of Nora's actions
and had determined to help Bessie, if possible. On pretext of looking up a word in the dictionary,
Anna went forward, laid a wet rag where Bessie could reach it, and returned to her seat. Bessie
eagerly took the rag and rubbed her face. She was surprised to see the different colors of
ink appear upon it. How they came to be there she did not know; but she did not think about
them long, for something far worse began to trouble her. She knew that she had lost the grace
of God out of her heart. Oh, how wretched she felt! Would God forgive her again? Yes; she knew
he would; for she had read that, "The Lord is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart, and
saveth such as be of a contrite spirit." This thought was a great comfort to her. But, oh!
what about her teacher? How could her teacher ever love and respect her again? She would ask
her pardon as soon as possible, but would she forgive her?

It was not long until the teacher went to her desk for something, but she took no notice of
Bessie. Beaching out very timidly, Bessie touched her and said, "O Miss Harrington, won't you
please forgive me?" But the teacher pretended not to hear her, and turned quickly away. The
next thought was, "What will Mama think and say? Oh, if only she did not have to know about
it!" With these thoughts coursing through her mind, Bessie was unable to study; and by the
time school closed, she was in great distress.

After closing the school, the teacher paid no attention to Bessie for some time; but when she
had finished her evening duties and all the pupils except Nora, Anna, and Bessie had left the
building, she turned to Bessie, fell upon her knees, and threw both arms around her. Bessie
sobbed, "Oh, please forgive me! please forgive me!" For some time the teacher made no reply,
and Nora muttered, "Catch me asking her forgiveness!" At last the teacher, looking up through
tearful eyes, said, "Bessie dear, it is you who must forgive me. I should have been a better
example to you this afternoon. Let us pray." Then two sad hearts were lifted to God in humble,
earnest prayer that he would forgive them for Jesus' sake. God heard their prayers, gave back
the sweet peace that they had lost out of their souls, and bound their hearts together in Christian
love and fellowship.

Nora went her way, provoked with her seatmate and angry because the joke had not worked quite
as she had expected. Anna, slipping her arm through Bessie's walked home with her and told
her all that Nora had done. Bessie was surprised. She understood why things had taken the course
they had; but, knowing it was really Satan, who had been trying to overthrow her own soul,
she did not censure her seatmate.

Her only thought now was of how sad her mother would feel. Bessie decided that the occurrence
was too dreadful to tell her about and that she would keep it a secret. This was her decision
until she saw her mother coming down the walk to meet her. Having always told her mother everything,
Bessie did not know how it would seem to keep a secret from her; so when they met, she forgot
all about her decision and began at once to tell her mother all that had happened.

Mrs. Worthington listened very carefully to Bessie's story and then said: "Bessie, I am so
glad you have told me all this yourself, and have held nothing back nor blamed Nora. God will
take care of the matter, and I believe that your lesson is a lasting one. And now, my child;
you can see your great need of sanctification. Had that ugliness and stubbornness been taken
out of your heart, you would have been spared much suffering. I trust that you will earnestly
seek and obtain this grace."

It was well that Bessie told her mother everything, for Nora did all in her power to circulate
the story and to make it as bad as possible. Nora's mother, thinking it best to tell Mrs. Worthington
about Bessie's misbehavior, made a special call at the Worthington home for that purpose. Bessie's
mother listened to what her neighbor's story was and then smilingly replied, "Yes, I know all
about it; Bessie told me before she reached home. I am so glad that I have the confidence of
my child. We are companions; I love her company, and she loves mine." These words sounded strange
to the visitor. She could not understand. "It seems strange," said she, "that Bessie loves
to stay at home and to be with you so much. Doesn't she ever get lonesome? Nora is restless
and tired when she has to stay at home, and says I am too old for her."

Ah! here was the secret of the difference between the two girls. One mother had allowed her
daughter to choose her own company and had not inquired into their plays and talks; whereas
the other knew the secrets of her child's heart and could advise and instruct her in any matter.
Between Bessie and her mother there was a tie of which Nora and her mother knew nothing. "Train
up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old he will not depart from it." Prov. 22:6.

CHAPTER XVII.

TEMPTATIONS.

At Christmas time Bessie received the following letter from one of her friends:

     Dear Bessie:

     I have long wondered what to send you as a Christmas gift,
     and it seemed a hard problem to solve. I fear you will
     wonder at what I am sending; but, knowing that you are
     nearly thirteen years old and must be growing very fast, I
     have decided to send you a corset. I hope you will like and
     appreciate it enough to wear it.

     Lovingly your friend,

     Lizzie.

On receiving the package, Bessie looked at the corset and said, "Mama, shall I wear it?"

Mrs. Worthington looked anxiously at her daughter; for she knew that Bessie would have strong
temptations along this line, as she did not have a pretty form, and was growing rapidly. She
had hoped, however, that the subject would not be mentioned for some time. Silently she breathed
a little prayer for wisdom to answer the question, and then said:

"Bessie, God used great wisdom in forming your body. He knew just what shape it would have
to be in order to perform its natural functions. Do you think it would be proper to try to
change it? Do you wonder why something snug around your waist could be harmful? Listen, dear,
and I will tell you. Let us take the corset and examine it. It certainly looks very innocent
and pretty, but just see how stiff it is. These steel ribs and this whalebone make it more
like a piece of harness than anything else I can think of. When worn about the waist, it produces
pressure upon the vital organs and thus deforms the body. These long strings at the back are
often drawn so tightly as to cause the misplacement and derangement of those organs whose functions
are most necessary to health and happiness. As a consequence, many a woman has to suffer long
years of torture.

"Many women say they don't wear the corset tight, and think, therefore, that no harm results;
but, let one of them put a snug-fitting bandage on any other part of the body, and she will
see how quickly the muscles of that part will weaken and decrease in size. Should a young woman
who has never worn a corset attempt to wear one about her waist as loosely as they are ever
worn, she would, if honest with herself, cast it aside as an abominable thing.

"The reason why Lizzie wants you to begin wearing a corset while you're young is that, if you'll
bind your waist before you've reached your full growth, your waist will never attain the size
it would have attained under natural conditions. In other words, you would be deformed."

"I don't think I shall ever wear it, Mama, if that's the effect it has upon the body. If God
takes such particular care of us that he numbers our very hairs, he must be very much grieved
to see any one put a corset about her waist."

"I'm glad for your decision, my child, but you'll soon meet greater temptations. Some mothers
don't think it worth while to warn their girls of the dangers that threaten them in regard
to love and marriage; but I want to see you, Bessie, fully prepared, so that you may safely
pass this dangerous period.

"Most girls at your age have some strange idea regarding love. In the schoolroom, perhaps,
a girl notices some particular boy who has a winning way. At first she simply thinks he is
nice; is glad to see him promoted, receive honor, etc. Gradually her mind becomes filled with
queries concerning his opinion of her. She dares not own that she loves to appear well in his
eyes, but it is true nevertheless. During his absence she misses him, and upon his return her
heart beats with emotion. If he pays her little attentions, she dwells upon them until she
becomes eager for them. Her playmates notice a change in her, for she can no longer hide her
feelings. She blushes when mention is made of her preference for him. The couple seek to be
together as much as possible, and are soon meeting together secretly. When reproved, they may
promise not to let the thing happen again, only to repeat it in a short time. The secrecy of
these meetings make them more enjoyable, and their length and frequency are unconsciously increased.

"Satan, who is never asleep upon such occasions, makes reproof his companion to push them forward.
Friendly warnings are unheeded; and if force be used to prevent the meetings, the couple may
think of eloping. They may not have thought of marriage until this time; but when the girl
realizes what she has done, she consents to the hasty marriage. Such marriages, Bessie, seldom
result happily.

"The place to stop was at the beginning. She should have gained control of her wandering affections.
Young girls who lavish their love upon boys of their own age or older lose relish for other
things, and their minds become dwarfed and weakened by being taxed with thoughts that are not
fit for them to consider at so early an age.

"It is all right to form in your mind an ideal for your affections, if you don't have in mind
some particular person; but your common sense should be your guide. Two rowboats passing each
other upon the water are all right as long as they are far enough apart; but let these boats
drift or be guided too close together, and there is great danger of a collision. Your affections
are to you what the rudder is to the boat, and reason is your pilot. They will guide you aright
if you will let them."

"Mama," said Bessie, "there's a girl in our school, only a few months older than I, that says
she is to be married in a short time. The man she's to marry is nearly twice as old as she
is, too. We told her that she ought to wait until she wore long dresses before she talked about
getting married. Don't you think that is dreadful?"

"Yes, dear, it is. No girl should ever be married while she is so young."

CHAPTER XVIII.

ANSWERS TO PRAYER.

During the summer Bessie's cousin John and a boy friend came to visit her. They spent many
pleasant hours on the lake. One day while they were about two miles from home, a fierce storm
arose. They noticed the sky growing dark and tried very hard to reach home; but, when still
some distance from the shore, they could see that instead of making any headway they were drifting
before the wind.

It was a serious moment. As the great waves dashed up over them, each adding to the amount
of water in the boat, Bessie looked first at her cousin toiling away at the oars, the great
drops of perspiration coursing down his face, then at their friend nearly wild with terror,
and then at the western sky. "John," said she to her cousin, "I believe that's rain coming
toward us." Until then the boy, who was a little older than Bessie, had been brave; but as
he turned to look, his face blanched with terror, and he said, "Bessie, if that is rain, it
will certainly sink our boat; for, see, it is nearly half full of water now."

The situation was certainly critical, but Bessie felt that it was not the time to despair.
She remembered that in olden times Jesus had calmed the sea. Believing that he could still
do the same, she prayed for help from heaven. Then, encouraging her cousin to do his best,
she, assisted by their friend, began to bale out the water as rapidly as they could. In a few
moments the great drops of rain were dashing down upon them. Without speaking, all kept at
their work for what seemed to them an hour, but which was really but a short time. Suddenly
it ceased raining; and, looking about them, they saw that the lake was perfectly quiet--not
a ripple could be seen. With trembling voice Bessie said, "John, God must have sent the rain
to quiet the water, for I asked him to help us." It was a very wet but thankful crowd that
reached home that night.

In the spring that Bessie was fourteen years old, her father sold the beautiful home where
she had spent so many happy days, and bought a tract of land in a dense wood farther up the
lake. On account of the dense forest, the place appeared very dismal. As the purchaser of their
old home wanted possession as soon as possible, Mr. Worthington had time to build only a barn
before removing his family. In this building they lived during the first summer. Though these
circumstances were discouraging, the Worthingtons tried hard to be brave. By fall a house was
ready for them.

Many good things were lacking in this new forest home; but God knew this, and he put it into
the hearts of friends and neighbors to supply the family with fruit and vegetables and also
chickens. So generously were these supplied that there was no lack.

During the winter following much wood was cut, hauled, and piled out along the roadside in
front of the house; but still there was standing timber nearly everywhere one might look, and
to the south and west it extended for many miles.

The next summer Bessie learned how dangerous an enemy a large forest could become. There was
so little rain during the hot months that things became dry and brittle. One day she heard
the cry of "Fire! Fire!" Looking away to the southwest, she beheld a sight that made her feel
faint with fear. The woods were ablaze, and the fire was coming directly toward her home.

Her father came to her, explained their danger, told her to warn her mother and then to do
all she could to put out any sparks that might fall around the woodpiles, house, or barn. This
said, he hastened to join the men in their desperate battle with the fire. When Bessie entered
the house, she saw her mother weeping over her little baby, who had been born during the winter
months and who had known nothing but sickness and suffering. When Mrs. Worthington heard the
news, she continued to weep, and said, "Well, dear, do all you can to put out the sparks; for
I think your little brother is dying, and I can not leave him."

By much hard work, the fire was held in check until evening. Bessie made her rounds with a
pail of water and a dipper until her eyes became so painful on account of the smoke and heat
that she was forced to lie down on the ground until they quit hurting. As soon as possible,
however, she returned to her task, informing her mother frequently of the progress of the fire.

At last word came that nothing more could be done; that the house could not be saved. Seeing
that further effort was useless and that each moment increased the danger of their own lives,
the men left off fighting the fire, in order to save themselves and to help, if possible, the
Worthington family. They soon reached the house. The next question was, where to go. The lake
seemed to be the nearest place of safety. Confusion was everywhere, but through it all Mrs.
Worthington sat quietly holding her dying baby.

"O Mama," said Bessie, "aren't you going with the rest?"

"No," answered her mother positively; "I shall remain right here with my dying child. I can
not move him now and add to his suffering. I know that God can take care of me here as well
as anywhere else. Why, Bessie, where is your faith? God can yet send rain and put out the fire."

"Oh! but if God doesn't send rain, you will burn up; for the fire is almost here," cried Bessie.
"Do come as far from the house as you can, won't you?"

"No, Bessie, I told you, no. I shall sit just where I am," answered Mrs. Worthington; and Bessie
knew that it would be useless to press the matter further.

With throbbing heart Bessie ran to her room, which was already getting hot from the fire: she
fell upon her knees by the window where she could see the flames leaping from tree to tree,
and began to call mightily upon God. "O God!" she prayed, "do send rain or change the wind."
After repeating this prayer several times, she noticed some large drops of water upon the window
pane. She knew what it meant: once before God had sent rain to help her in time of danger.
Hastening down stairs, she said, "Mama, it's raining." "Thank God!" said Mrs. Worthington,
"I knew he wouldn't let baby and me burn up."

By that time the rain was pouring down; the wind had ceased; and the danger was over. The rain
did not put out the fire, but so checked it that, by hard work, it could be kept under control
until it died out.

Little Clement lived only a short time after the fire; but just before he died, he looked into
his weeping mother's face and smiled three times. As he had never smiled before, Mrs. Worthington
always thought that God took that way to encourage her heart.

CHAPTER XIX.

LOST IN THE WOODS.

As Leroy was too young to drive the cows home in the evening, Bessie enjoyed many a long walk
in search of them. One evening she had some difficulty in finding them. It was one of those
evenings when everything is quiet and sound travels a long distance. After listening carefully
for the tinkling of the cow-bells, Bessie was bewildered, for she could seemingly hear them
in every direction. At last, thinking she had located the sound, she set out in that direction.
When she had walked about two miles, she stopped to listen again. The bells were still tinkling,
but they seemed to be just as far away. She knew, though, that the cows sometimes went a long
distance. She had been following the road, but thinking the sound came from the woods, she
started off in that direction. She saw that the sun was just going down behind the trees; that
she was on an unfamiliar path, and was getting farther and farther from home. But she must
get the cows, and on she went, stopping now and then to locate the sound of the bells.

She suddenly found herself standing upon a point of land where a deep, wide ravine extended
on either side. The distance across the ravine she could not see on account of the shadow and
the trees. What should she do? A few minutes previously she had thought about its being late,
but had hoped to find the cows and to make them guide her home. This hope failing, she did
not know what to do. When ready to use, dry between folds of cheese-cloth and let stand exposed
to the air a few moments.= How to Blanch and Cook Vegetables for
Salads.= Cut the vegetables as desired, in cubes, lozenges, balls,
juliennes, etc. Put over the fire in boiling water, and, after cooking
three or four minutes, drain, rinse in cold water, and put on to cook
in boiling salted water to cover.

Drain as soon as tender.= How to Cut Gherkins for a Garnish.= Select
small cucumber pickles of uniform size.

With a sharp knife cut them, lengthwise, into slices thin as paper, without detaching the slices at one
end; then spread out the slices as a fan is spread.= How to Fringe Celery.= Cut the stalks into
pieces about two inches in length.

Beginning on the round side at one end, with a thin, sharp knife,
cut down half an inch as many times as possible; then turn the stalk
half-way around and cut in the opposite direction, thus dividing the
end into shreds, or a fringe.

If desired, cut the opposite end in the same manner. Set aside in a pan of ice water containing
a slice of lemon.= How to Shred Romaine and Straight Lettuce.= Wash
the lettuce leaves carefully, without removing them from the stalk;
shake in the open air, and they will dry very quickly; fold in the
middle, crosswise, and cut through in the fold.

Hold the two pieces, one above the other, close to the meat-board
with the left hand, and with a sharp knife cut in narrow ribbons not
more than a quarter of an inch wide.= How to Keep Celery, Watercress,
Lettuce, Etc.= Many green vegetables-- celery in particular-- discolor
or rust, if allowed to stand longer than a few hours after being wet.

When brought from the market they may be put aside, in a tightly
closed pail, or in a paper bag, in a cool, dry place.

By thus excluding the air they will keep fresh several days. A short
time before serving put them into ice-cold water to which a slice or
two of lemon has been added.= How to Cook Sweetbreads and Brains.= Remove
the thin outer skin or membrane and soak in cold water, changing
the water often, an hour or more.

Cover with salted boiling water, acidulated with lemon juice and flavored with vegetables, and
cook, just below the boiling-point, twenty minutes. "O Bessie," cried the mother,
"what has happened to detain you? Your father and a company of men are out searching the woods
for you. Dear child, where have you been?"

Bessie was very tired and hungry; but she related all that had happened and said: "I'm sorry
I couldn't go farther; for I believe the cows were just a short distance beyond the point where
I turned back. But I did not dare to cross the swampy place and go into the woods on the other
side."

"Why, the cows have been home a long, long time, Bessie; and that is what had made your delay
seem so strange," said her mother. "But were you not afraid, dear, when you found that you
were so far from home!"

Bessie explained how she had felt and how the Lord had encouraged her and helped her to be brave.

"What time was that?" asked her mother; and when she learned, she said, "Bessie, that was when
I was so earnestly praying for you. Surely our God is a mighty God and one who is ever faithful."

When the searching party returned, they were all glad to know that Bessie was safe at home.

CHAPTER XX.

NOVEL-READING.

As Bessie approached her sixteenth year, Mrs. Worthington became very anxious about her. The
mother thought that she could notice a change in her daughter's actions and disposition. Instead
of being confiding and happy, she seemed listless, forgetful, and nervous. At first the mother
could not understand this change; but by close observation she found that her daughter was
indulging in light reading.

Some magazines and weekly papers containing continued love-stories had found their way into
the Worthington home. At first they were not attractive to Bessie. She would merely glance
through the pages; but she gradually came to overlook the good, substantial reading and to
enjoy the part that stimulated the romantic and imaginative part of her nature. The effect
upon her mental and moral powers was much the same as that produced upon the digestive organs
by rich and stimulating foods. Her mind was thus weakened and robbed of its relish for wholesome
reading. She was ever looking forward for something to excite or satisfy her abnormal desire
for the romantic or the dreadful.

As soon as Mrs. Worthington realized her daughter's danger, she sought an opportunity to instruct
her on the dangers of novel-reading. "Some effects of novel-reading," said she, "are worse
even than those produced by dancing. Many novels are hurtful because of the many false ideas
interwoven in the stories. Some novels attract the pure-minded by their morality; but it is
unsafe to read them, for the reason I have already given you, and because, as with any bad
habit, the exciting influences must be constantly increased. In this way some persons are deceived
and drawn into many of Satan's snares.

"In most novels there is much that is good and true; but the immoral, the worldly, and the
untrue are so interwoven with it that the reader unconsciously finds himself taking pleasure
in thoughts which, before he began reading novels, would have been disgusting. In this way
the reader's sense of right is lowered and an appetite created--an appetite that can not be
satisfied; the more it is fed, the more depraved and exacting it becomes. Gradually the desire
for the romantic increases until the novel-reader longs to have a romance of her own. Her sense
of duty is so blunted and her better judgment so blinded that she often agrees to a secret
marriage with some one who is wholly unfit to be her life companion. It is in this way that
many a girl has been deceived and led into sin. Many times, too, habits have been formed, from
which nothing but the grace of God could deliver. In looking back over a wasted life, many
a person can see that his or her downfall had its origin in the first novel.

"My dear child, there are many good books that you will find both helpful and interesting,
but the Bible should be the pattern of your life. Let it be the principal food for your mind
and soul. Your time all belongs to God, and you should waste none of it in reading unwholesome
literature."

As Mrs. Worthington finished speaking, she was glad to see a changed look in Bessie's face.
She knew that God was talking to her daughter; and as she arose to go, she said: "Bessie, do
not forget from whom you may expect strength. I am praying that God will entirely take away
the unnatural appetite which you have been fostering."

It was not long until Bessie rejoiced in full deliverance from her taste for novel-reading,
and her interest in her mother's talks returned. As they read the Bible together and praised
God for the precious truths it contained, cherishing them within their hearts as priceless
treasures, Bessie's understanding seemed to open, and she was able to comprehend many of the
deep truths of God's Word. The reading of God's Word gave her such unbounding joy, such complete
spiritual happiness, that nothing could compare with it. Its truths, so simple and yet so grand,
were at once a guide and a reproof to keep her feet from straying from the narrow way.

CHAPTER XXI.

GLAD TIDINGS.

In a small house about two miles from Bessie's home lived a very old lady. She loved the Lord
and enjoyed telling of his goodness and of his dealings with her. Bessie, who was now about
sixteen years of age, enjoyed these talks very much.

One day while Bessie and her mother were visiting this aged saint, she brought forth a much-worn
paper and handed it to Mrs. Worthington, saying, "My daughter sent me this paper. You may take
it home, if you like," she continued; "but I must ask you to return it, as my daughter wants
it again." As Mrs. Worthington took the paper, Bessie saw at the top of the page, in large
letters, "The Gospel Trumpet." After reading a few minutes Mrs. Worthington exclaimed: "This
paper is certainly the work of a people who understand the plan of salvation. Things are fully
explained here that have been plain to me for years--things that I dared not mention publicly
lest I be thought fanatical."

On their return home Mrs. Worthington said: "It must have been in answer to prayer that Sister
Moore let me see that paper. I have prayed for many years that God would help me to find a
people who were not afraid to preach his whole Word. I believe we have found them. Who knows
but this is God's way of starting a series of meetings here. Oh, the wonderful God we serve!
I shall subscribe for the paper at once and also send my poem on sectism to see if they will
publish it." The subscription was sent, and the poem soon appeared in the paper.

Mrs. Worthington was truly thankful to find that God had others in the world who were willing
to teach the whole Bible without construing any part to suit their own ideas.

It was not long until a testimony appeared from a minister living a few miles away; and, agreeably
with Mrs. Worthington's request, a series of meetings was started in the neighborhood.

CHAPTER XXII.

THE MEETINGS.

The news of the good meetings spread rapidly, and the attendance constantly increased. The
gospel as preached was a new message to the people, and yet it was the very same that Jesus
and his disciples taught. Every point of doctrine presented had a "thus saith the Lord" to
confirm it.

Many saw that the Bible had been misunderstood and had been misconstrued by mankind to prove
minor points, while the deep and vital truths had been so covered over with prejudice and unbelief
that the majority of the people were blind to the true meaning of the Word; and that, in their
confusion, each had gone to the denomination that seemed most nearly to correspond to his clouded
views. It was also clearly shown that there is no way to heaven except the straight and narrow
way that Jesus taught, and that God's Word is the only true measure of a Christian experience.

Mrs. Worthington felt now that her cup of joy was full since she could hear the way of salvation
and the true church explained from the pulpit just as God had revealed them to her. She was
also glad that Bessie, who was now old enough to understand deep spiritual truths for herself,
was in perfect harmony and fellowship with her.

About forty souls were saved in the meetings; some gained the experience of sanctification;
and the Spirit of the Lord worked mightily upon the hearts of many others.

Oh, the deep and wonderful love of God! Oh, the richness and fulness of his grace! How glorious
Bessie now found her walk with God! How precious to commune with him and feel that she was
growing deeper into his love! Truly it was a taste of heaven!

CHAPTER XXIII.

BESSIE SEES HER DUTY.

Among those converted in the meetings was a girl a little younger than Bessie. Her name was
Cora. Being an orphan and living in the home of an infidel uncle, where she had no one to understand
or sympathize with her views, she often sought Bessie for counsel and advice. The uncle did
not oppose his niece, but others in his family did.

As time went on, the two girls became anxious to be doing something for the Lord. While they
were pondering over the matter, a company of ministers came to the place to hold another series
of meetings. From them the girls learned that The Gospel Trumpet was published by consecrated
labor, that the workers received no stated salary, but that they trusted the Lord for their
food and clothing.

It seemed a strange story to the girls, but Cora felt that she should like to go and help in
the work. Though her uncle was not pleased with her plan, yet finally, after he had investigated
and had found the place respectable, he gave his consent. It was several months, however, before
she expected to leave. Toward the close of this time Bessie began to feel some anxiety for
her friend, and one day said to her, "Cora, do you really want to go to The Gospel Trumpet
office to work? Now, if you don't want to go, God will not be pleased with your service." "Bessie,
I have lost all desire to go," Cora answered. "It seems to me that God is calling you instead
of me. You could be a much greater help than I, because you have known and understood this
truth all your life."

If Bessie had received a severe blow, it could not have hurt her more. Her precious mother!
How could she leave her! Many of her cherished hopes for the future arose before me. Her plan,
to do all she could for her mother in her declining years, came up before her; and as she thought
of it, she became very sad. When the two girls parted at the door, Bessie's heart was very
heavy; and when she was at last alone, she wept bitterly. She remembered that she had consecrated
to do anything the Lord might require of her, but she did not see how she could do this. For
many days Bessie bore this heavy burden; and, not being strong, she began to fail in health.
From appearances, she had a malignant form of quick consumption. The course of the disease
was rapid, and in a few weeks she was not only confined to her bed, but seemingly very near
death. Mr. Worthington desired to consult a physician, but reluctantly heeded to Bessie's earnest
entreaties to let her trust the Lord. She said to her father, "I know that God would heal me,
if for the best; and, if not, I would rather die." And she added mentally, "I would rather
die than to leave home."

Bessie at last became so low that she could not be left alone night or day. As her mother sat
beside her one day, holding her hand, she said: "I believe, dear, that God wants to heal you
and use you for himself. I feel like asking our elder, Sister Smith, to come and anoint you
with oil according to Jas. 5:14, 15. I am sure God will heal you."

Sister Smith was brought as soon as possible; but, to Mrs. Worthington's surprise, she did
not offer to anoint Bessie until the next day. She said: "I can not understand this case. There
is something here that seems very strange. Bessie appears to be perfectly resigned to die,
but she only answers yes or no to my questions. I shall talk to her again." Returning to the
bedside, she said, "My dear, if God heals you, are you willing to leave your father, mother,
and home to preach the gospel"--but she got no farther. Bessie, with all the emphasis she could
command in her weak state, interrupted, "No; I will never preach."

"Ah! there is the point in your consecration that you have not reached," replied Sister Smith.
"You must be willing to do anything that will bring the most honor to God's name, and to work
where he can get the most glory out of your service. It may be the Lord will never require
you to preach; but he wants the willingness on your part, just as much as if he wanted to make
a minister of you."

It was some time before Bessie could answer; but when she did, it was to say that she would
do anything, only that she must know that it was God who required it.

"God will make you to know that," said Sister Smith; "and now I feel that everything is out
of the way, and we can ask God to heal you."

As she applied the oil and called earnestly upon God, there seemed to be a heavenly atmosphere
filling the room. Bessie felt a soothing sensation passing through her body; and when the prayer
was ended, she felt perfectly well, though exceedingly weak. Her strength soon returned, however,
and it was not long until the Lord told her plainly that he wanted her at The Gospel Trumpet
office. She remembered her consecration and felt willing in her heart to obey; but she shrank
from telling her parents. For two weeks she endured severe mental suffering. She tried to gain
sufficient courage to speak to her mother about the call, but her tongue refused to form the
words. One day while she and her mother were in the cosy sitting-room, Mrs. Worthington said,
"Bessie, I believe that God wants you at The Gospel Trumpet office and that he has used Cora's
plan and your sickness to show you your duty." Looking up through eyes filled with tears, Bessie
related all that God had revealed to her. A great calm then came into her soul.

But the test was not entirely over. Mr. Worthington must be told, and--would he be willing?
Embracing the first opportunity, Bessie told him her plans and begged his approval upon them;
but his reply nearly crushed her.

"Bessie," said her father, "if you must leave us, you may go; but I have one thing to say and
I mean it. If you go, you can never return; for your going is heartless indeed. I can not see
why you should choose to go from your comfortable home and those who love you so dearly, and
leave your mother, who so much needs your help."

"Father, Father!" exclaimed Bessie, "Oh, don't talk that way! You know how much I love you
all. You know I never wanted to leave home before; and if you won't let me return, what shall
I do?"

As she stood there before her father almost broken-hearted, a sweet voice whispered, "I will
be with thee; be not afraid." The words sounded like music in her soul and reminded her of
her recent decision to obey the Lord at any cost; and she said quietly:

"Well, Father, if you refuse to let me return home, it will have to be that way; but I must
obey the Lord, and he has called me into his service"

"Very well," he answered, "but remember my words," and he left her.

Seeking her mother, Bessie told her of the interview and of her father's refusal to allow her
to return home. When you have to choose whom you will serve, God or your parents, you must
choose the Lord."

"I will obey God," said Bessie quietly; and she began at once to prepare to leave home.

When all was ready and the morning of departure had come, Mr. Worthington went out to prepare
to take his daughter to the train. He had been very silent all the morning, but Bessie's heart
was so full that she had taken little notice of his behavior. Oh, how she longed for his consent
for her to return! Her mother gave her every encouraging word possible. At last they looked
out and saw that the horse was ready. As Bessie picked up her last bundle, the door opened,
and her father, stepping in quickly, caught her in his arms. "O my child," he sobbed, "will
you forgive me and come back as soon as the Lord will let you? I didn't mean what I said; but
it is so hard to give you up. If you need anything, write to me at once and let me know about
it, won't you?" and he tenderly kissed her. Bessie's heart was filled with joy, and she said
that he could expect her home just as soon as the Lord would let her come.

"Read 1 Cor. 10:13 and Jas. 1:12 just as soon as you have time, dear," whispered Mrs. Worthington
in her daughter's ear as she kissed her again before she jumped into the buggy beside her father.
Then they drove away from the home and the mother that were so dear to Bessie's heart.

Very few words were spoken on the way to town, and after a long ride Bessie found herself on
the train. It all seemed like a terrible dream; but there was a sweet peace and quietness in
her soul, and her father's loving words rang again and again in her ears.

CHAPTER XXIV.

REVERIE.

In the days that followed Bessie's arrival at the Trumpet office, she found many ways in which
she could help spread the gospel. She found, too, that she could preach in a way that was not
at all distasteful to her; for she could set up many lines of type to be used in printing the
gospel message in the Trumpet, which was carrying light and truth into many homes and preaching
to hungry souls. But oh, how often she thought of the dear ones at home and of how they were
missing her!

One evening, when she sought her room and sat down beside the window, as she had so often done
at home, she began to review her life. As the soft shadows gathered slowly about her, she seemed
to be at home again close beside her mother's knee, listening to her tender, loving words of
sympathy and advice. Bessie could now see what they had been worth to her. They not only had
prepared her for a common sphere in life, but had given her a thorough understanding of God's
great plan of salvation. As she recalled her mother's prayers and talks, she realized that,
through them, she had many times escaped what other girls had ignorantly blundered into, and
had been spared a great many of the bitter sorrows that come into the lives of girls not taught
at their mother's knee. In her thankfulness, she offered a fervent prayer to her heavenly Father
that many more earnest, noble, and prayerful mothers might be found to guide their children
through the critical period of childhood.

After three months Bessie returned home for a short visit with her parents. Upon her arrival
she not only found a loving and tender welcome, but also learned that both her parents had
accepted her call as from God. After a happy visit of two weeks she returned to her work. With
the blessing of God upon her labors, we shall here bid her good-by.

In conclusion, we wish to say that what she became was principally in answer to her faithful
mother's prayers. Had she been left--as many girls are--without a mother's tender love and
confidence, mingled with many earnest prayers, she would have fallen into temptations that
she never knew. She had fully proved the worth of a praying mother.

CHAPTER XXV.

A PLEA TO MOTHERS.

Home as God intended it is built upon the corner-stone of virtue and prayer. It makes no difference
how beautiful the house nor how grand its contents, if the mother is a woman who does not care
for God or virtue, the corner-stone of that home is lacking. Such a home can not stand when
trial and temptation enter.

A stream never rises above its source, nor a home above the ideals of its founders. No matter
how humble the home, do not belittle its possibilities. Anything so sacred as home can command
heaven's choicest and best blessings. The humblest cabin may contain that element which makes
home the shrine of happiness and the temple of peace, and will cause it to send forth saints
and heroes.

Oh that parents, especially mothers, could realize their influence in the home, their power
to direct the young minds around them into the proper channel! Let us so educate and train
the children that they will be able to get the greatest good from their natural endowment and
that they may use it in such a manner as will bring the most glory to God. So train them and
so live before them in the home that in after-years they will say with pleasure: "This precept
was always taught me by my parents. Father and Mother's holy example has been a priceless birthright
to me."

This is true parenthood. It should be the ideal in every home. By this I mean parents who realize
their responsibility and have their children's best interest at heart; parents who will sacrifice
any pleasure of their own for the benefit and happiness of their little ones; parents who will
not only bid their children a hearty welcome into the world, but will care for their future
from that moment, and who have the love and respect of their entire household.

You may say that parents like these are few and hard to find. True, but it is equally so that,
with proper knowledge and understanding, many would approach this standard. Perhaps some have
allowed years to slip carelessly by and their darlings to pass seemingly beyond their control.
To such I would say, It is never too late to pray.

Observe the wayward boy whose chief inheritance is a wild, wilful nature. He is nearing his
fourteenth birthday. Having been allowed to have his own way while small, he has cultivated
an ungovernable desire to do as he pleases. Let the mother of that boy cease her old habit
of saying, "I don't know what will become of that boy! I don't understand how he can treat
me so rudely. I've done all I can, and he just grows worse," and take a more rational method.
Have you gone to that boy and told him the sweet, simple story of Jesus and why he came from
his beautiful home; that a part of his mission was to teach you how to make your home after
the pattern of his heavenly home; that his heart is touched with compassion when he beholds
any one in trouble; that he is grieved because you have made a mistake; but that you are sorry
and are decided to do your duty? Have you told the boy all that? Have you knelt beside his
bed at night with your tear-dimmed eyes pressed upon his hand, and told him the great dangers
that are before him, even surrounding him, and informed him how to avoid them? Have you told
him that he is at the most critical time in his life, that a mistake now will mean a life of
suffering for both him and you, and that he can with you begin over and remove some of his
past mistakes? Have you talked thus to your boy? If not, why not? It is your privilege as well
as your duty.

CHAPTER XXVI.

PARENTAL DUTY.

The first duty of father and mother to their child is to see that they are a unit on family
government. Second, they must study themselves and their failures, trying to make the weak
places strong. Third, study the disposition of the child, gain an understanding of its inner
life, and find out what pleases and displeases it; and, while cultivating the good, hold in
check the bad. A mother should understand her children better than any one else. If she is
a thoughtful mother, she knows not only the surroundings of her children, but many of the impressions
that she has stamped upon their undeveloped minds.

Children are not putty that can be moulded into any form to suit our fancy, but there is a
method by which we can fashion their young lives. Much patience, devotion to the child, and
fervent prayer will be needful to accomplish anything worth while.

Every parent should see that their attitude toward their children is what it should be. Consider
their feelings and show them respect, remembering that they have rights upon which you must
not intrude; but never loosen the reigns of home government. Make any rules that you think
practicable and necessary; explain each rule carefully to your child, giving your reason for
making it, and then demand obedience. Never, unless for some special reason, ignore any good
rule. Should your child happen to break one of these rules, do not punish without first finding
out the cause. He may not have understood your meaning, or he may have forgotten. Take him
quietly aside; and, after finding out why he has disobeyed, gently tell him again your reasons
for making the rules and the necessity of his obedience. You might have to do this several
times, but do not excuse him too long. When it is necessary to punish, ask for wisdom from
above, and then punish in a way that he will understand you and remember the punishment. When
you make a statement, stand by it, if possible, unless you see error in it. If such be the
case, confess your fault. If your child does not show you due respect and obedience, there
is a cause for it, and it is your duty to find out what that cause is.

All children have to contend with bad qualities that have been inherited. Do not flatter yourself
that because the child is yours it will escape temptation; for all must be tempted, if they
would be strong. Teach your children, according to their ability to comprehend, all that they
should know to be able to shun evil. Do not think that because your child has inherited some
moral weakness, you are helpless to teach him to overcome it. You can explain to him his danger
and tell him what yielding to the temptations that come to him because of this weakness will
lead to. Point out the effect of this sin upon the one from whom it was inherited. Tell the
child that the only chance to overcome this inherited tendency will be by constantly avoiding
those things that will lead to temptation. You may find the task difficult and you may sometimes
feel disheartened, but you must put that wayward child of yours right, if possible, or God
will hold you accountable. Perhaps the inherited sin may lie at your own door. If it does,
you will understand better how to help him from under its power.

In the public school, on the street, and in his various associations, your child will be exposed
to the evil of hearing impure language from vile lips; and if he be not warned, who can blame
him for listening? Your home teaching must overbalance all that he hears outside.

Should some question concerning the mysteries of his own body or of his own origin be aroused
in his mind by impure stories or by any other cause, you must at once arise to meet the difficulty
before harm is done that will be very difficult to overcome. But some mother will say: "I do
not know what answer to make my child when he asks questions of such a delicate nature. Would
it not be best to leave his mind free from these ideas until he is older?" Doubtless it would,
if the child would be contented to wait; but when he has learned enough to ask the question,
he is able to tell whether you speak the truth when you say you do not know, and he will not
be satisfied by the flimsy pretest, "Oh, run away and don't bother me; I'm too busy."

Above all else, keep the confidence of your child, so that he will come to you with every trouble
of life. Confidence of children in their parents is a gift from God. All children have it at
first. See the tottering baby cling to its mother for support; watch it run to her when it
is frightened. Can it not have the same confidence when it is older? I answer from experience
that it can and should. Truth inspires trust in your child. If you do not think it best to
answer all his questions fully at the time when he asks them, tell him at least enough to satisfy
his curiosity, and promise him that, if this remains a secret between you and him, he may come
to you whenever he wants more information. Do not be afraid of having secrets with your child.
The matter may be trifling, but the fact that he is helping you to keep secrets will teach
him to value his word and will increase his confidence in you. On the other hand, if you tell
him an untruth, do not think that he will come to you again. No, he will doubtless go to some
friend who he thinks will tell him, and thus get his young mind tainted with impure thoughts.
And little better in results than telling an untruth is putting the child off till some future
time. "There is your friend," cried the girl; "I knew he would cause me
to destroy him sooner or later."

Ku dragged it into the house, and said, "Let us wait till to-morrow to talk it over; we shall
then be more calm." Next day the young lady arrived, and Ku inquired about her knowledge of
the black art; but she told Ku not to trouble himself about such
affairs, and to keep it secret or it might be prejudicial to his
happiness.

Ku then entreated her to consent to their union, to which she replied that she had already been
as it were a daughter-in-law to his mother, and there was no need to push the thing further.
"Is it because I am poor?" asked Ku. "Well, I am not rich," answered she, "but the fact is I
had rather not." She then took her leave, and the next evening when Ku went across to their
house to try once more to persuade her the young lady had disappeared,
and was never seen again.

The
Boon-companion Once upon a time there was a young man named Ch'ê,
who was not particularly well off, but at the same time very fond
of his wine; so much so that without his three stoups of liquor every
night he was quite unable to sleep, and bottles were seldom absent
from the head of his bed.

One night he had waked up and was turning over and over, when he fancied some one was in the bed
with him; but then, thinking it was only the clothes which had slipped off, he put out his hand
to feel, and in doing so touched something silky like a cat. Striking a light, he found it
was a fox, lying in a drunken sleep like a dog; and then looking at his wine bottle he saw that
it had been emptied. "A boon-companion," said he, laughing, as he avoided startling the animal,
and, covering it up, lay down to sleep with his arm across it, and the candle alight so as to see
what transformation it might undergo. About midnight the fox stretched itself, and Ch'ê cried,
"Well, to be sure, you've had a nice sleep!"
They will recount, "My mother told me this. My father taught me that. They must have understood
God's plan of salvation, or they would never have known how to tell me these things." But the
task will require your highest talents. Sympathy and love, constant watchfulness, and earnest
prayer will be the most needful. Since the child does not know himself, you must learn to know
him. You must search for the secret springs that govern his actions and for the master key
that will unlock his heart.

One dear young woman, relating her experience to me, said: "My mother died when I was only
six years old; but I know she must have been a Christian, because some friends who knew her
told me of her devoted life and of earnest pleadings for her children when she saw that she
must leave them. All that I can remember about her was seeing her bowing in prayer or talking
to us children. There are desires in my nature that I know must have been planted within me
in answer to her prayer. After her death I was cast out upon the world. I went to live with
a very ungodly family, but that sense of right and wrong within me made me shun and despise
their evil ways. I loved to read my Bible. From it I learned that, if I would gain heaven,
I must forsake sin and live a pure life. To live such a life was a pleasure until I found that
the denomination whose meetings I attended would not allow me to say much about a holy life,
because their creed did not teach it. Then I promised the Lord that I would be a Christian
if I had to be one all by myself. This was not necessary, for I found many true Christians
who believed all that the Bible teaches."

That mother's prayers had fashioned and governed the life of her daughter long before the child
was able to understand her mother's meaning. Parents can not begin too early to win the child's
love and confidence, and they should spare no pains to maintain these to mature years. Those
who do will find that their children will never, even to old age, fail to come to them for
sympathy and advice. Children so reared will always love and honor their father and mother
as the Bible says they should, and will look upon their parents' lives as examples for them
to imitate. See to it that you show yourself a good pattern, in thought, word, and deed, for
them to follow.

CHAPTER XXVII.

USEFUL HINTS.

There is no definite rule whereby parents may control their home, except to seek advice from
God, for no two families have the same environment. Any method that will bring about the desired
result may be applied; but the method must be systematic and thorough. A positive attitude
is good, and should be encouraged, but harshness ought never to be used. The latter will tend
to discouragement and resentment in the child, while the former will teach the difference between
right and wrong.

Be charitable to your children in regard to their faults and failings, so that they may learn
by your example to be charitable to each other and to their fellows. Teach them the blessings
that charity will bring to them; show them that it is the greatest of God's gifts and that
without it they will meet many buffetings from their contact with the world. Remember that
Paul speaks of it as "the more excellent way" and admonishes us to desire it above all things else.

Children must have entertainment. Rich and costly furniture, elaborate parties, or even guests
are not necessary. Children may be entertained in a very simple manner. What child does not
enjoy the old-fashioned game of hide-and-seek, tag, or some such innocent amusement with Papa
and Mama? It may take a little of your time, but what of that? Do all you can to make your
home the happiest place on earth for your children.

"Yes," says one, "that will do while the children are little; but just wait until they grow
up, and then they will seek other company." I did not say that they must always stay with you.
Of course they will desire to go from home sometimes. What I mean is that we can make home
so attractive that they will note the difference between it and the outside world. The interest
we take in them will constrain them to remain at home and to return when away from it. Home!
Oh that beautiful word! Poets have written about it, choirs have sung about it, but who can
fathom the meaning of that little word, home! None but the child who has been taught to revere,
cherish, and enjoy it, and then looking back remembers the happy years spent in the home circle.

I think that I hear a father say, "When I return from my work, I am so tired I can not stand
the children's noise." Is that so? Do you not love your children, and are you not working for
their welfare! If so, do you not think that a little less labor with your hands and a little
time spent with them would be more profitable? Perhaps a little romp or chat with them would
rest you. Try it anyway. You who are desk workers can afford it: it will help you to cast off
the responsibilities of the day and the better prepare you for the morrow. A romp with the
children is not lost; but, on the other hand, is a benefit for both parent and child. Thoughtful
parents can think of many things that will increase the interest in home and will draw them
closer to their children.

Sometimes it is good for the children to visit their friends, but parents should always be
acquainted with these friends. Never let your child go where games are played that you would
not allow played in your own home. Here is where conscience and confidence will help you. Be
cautious about allowing your child to go somewhere to stay all night. In this way many a child
has learned evil practises and in some cases been ruined. Then, too, it draws his mind away
from the home circle.

"But," you say, "all this I have done, and yet my children are now forgetful of it all. They
are indulging in many things that they were taught to be harmful to the soul." My dear friend,
can you not remember when this state of things began? Can you not point to a time when there
was a drifting from your home circle? when home life began to seem too narrow for your child?
when he began to crave the association of others more than that of his own brothers and sisters?
Did you at that time lift up your home banner and shield? Did you tell him of the rapids in
the distance? "No," you falteringly answer; "I thought there could be no harm in allowing him
to mingle with his chums at school and to visit them in their homes. I was afraid to be too
particular, lest he should think me too strict with him." Ah! friend, that was your golden
opportunity, and you failed to see it. But even these should not eat and then immediately retire;
for during sleep all the bodily organs, including the stomach, become dormant. Food partaken
at this hour is not properly taken care of, and in too many cases must be digested when the
individual has awakened, out of sorts, the next morning.

It is well to remember, also, that, at any time after food is eaten,
there should be a period of rest from all active effort; for then
the blood flows from the other organs of the body to the stomach,
and the work of digestion is begun. Is it not worth some self-denial, some sacrifices, on
pour part, to have your home spoken of in this manner?

"Yes," says a mother, "that is all right when both parents are in harmony and have salvation;
but suppose that the parents are poor and that one is unsaved?" I have seen just such homes
as this governed in the manner whereof I speak. God gave more grace and strength to the saved
companion; and, although there were many difficulties to encounter, yet the saved one was able
to influence the home for God. "All things are possible to him that believeth," said Christ
in olden times, and his statement is still true.

Again, I hear a parent whose loved companion has recently died say, "What can I do now to train
my children aright?" There comes before my mind a beautiful scene of a faithful mother with
her son and daughter whom she had brought up to God's glory. She was left alone with these
two precious ones to guide and rear to manhood and womanhood. She bade adieu to the words "I
can't" and with determination went about her task. As God never lets such zeal go without assistance,
this mother found help in time of need. Another scene which I love to recall is that of a devoted
father and by his side his two motherless daughters just entering womanhood. He gives them
every spare moment that he has, and both are real examples of trust and purity.

In your zeal to find entertainment for your children, do not forget that they must have employment.
See that every member of your household has certain work to do. This work should be suited
to the years and the strength of the individual and, if possible, to his likes and dislikes.
Work of the proper kind will strengthen the muscles, improve the health, keep out many evils,
and create in the young a desire to help bear the burdens of life. Periods of rest may be made
profitable by having on hand as much wholesome literature as you are able to secure. By this
means much useful knowledge may be stored. The reading need not be confined wholly to religious
works; reliable treatises on science, art, mechanics, cooking, chemistry, domestic economy,
health, etc., are all profitable if not indulged in to the exclusion of religious literature.
If you trust God, he will help you to know what to do.

A lady once said, "Our children are what we make them, and we get out of them just what we
put in." These words contain much truth. God holds all parents, according to their light and
understanding, responsible for the training of their children. 

Method.-- Cook the onion in the butter a few minutes, then remove it and add the flour and curry
powder; when frothy add the milk and stock. As soon as the boiling-point is reached, set the blazer
into the hot-water pan and add the eggs cut in quarters. I well remember a case where the mother's favorite
son brought sorrow and shame to the entire household by stealing from his own father, simply
because she had humored and petted him in childhood. Parents can not be too careful in this
respect.

Many a mother does not realize how highly her children value her opinion. A boy had met with
an accident that somewhat disfigured him for a time. While he was preparing to leave for school,
his mother said, "You will no doubt be made sport of today; are you able to bear it?" His answer
was, "Oh, I don't care what any one says about me but you; but if you were to make fun of me,
I couldn't stand it."

SWEET GEM OF THE HOME.

    Thou formal home, so graced, so blest,
      With earthly treasures rare;
    Within thy portals we expect
      All graces rich and fair.

    We gaze, we search, but all in vain;
      The gem we love so well,
    "Sweet innocence," doth not remain,
      Nor in thy chambers dwell.

    Thy children, as the world they greet,
      Are bearing tales of thee;
    "I was not warned," they oft repeat,
      Nor taught at Mother's knee.

    Sweet Innocence, thou heav'nly grace,
      Rich gem from God above!
    Thy touch upon the human face
      Reveals but peace and love.

    Thy treasures richer far than gold,
      Thy gifts of greatest worth,
    Might grace our homes, except for sin,
      Whose curse now sweeps the earth.

    We look for thee within the maid,
      With beauty, grace, and charm,
    But find thy flight she hath not stayed,
      Nor doth she feel alarm.

    Then in the lad, whose noble brow
      Thy presence might suggest;
    With closer view we must allow
      By thee he is not blest.

    E'en when we look within the child
      And laud his graces sweet,
    We find his mind so soon defiled
      For thee 'tis no retreat.

    "And why?" we ask, "oh! why is this?
      Such need and dearth abound.
    Oh! why in homes of promised bliss
      May not this gem be found?"

    The mystery, so deep, so great,
      Is simply lack of prayer;
    Is bidding timely warning wait
    For daily toil and care.

    Allowing things that crumble, waste,
      Our whole attention claim,
    We cause sweet Innocence in haste
    To leave our homes to shame.

    But thee, sweet grace, we find in some--
      Thank God thou art not lost!--
    We see thee in the Christian home
      As royal guest and host.

    We note the mother as she pleads
      For counsel from God's throne,
    Then goes with wisdom that she needs
      And strength to make it known.

    We watch the child in this true home,
      And in its face so fair
    We recognise what doth become
      A faithful mother's prayer. 

    Garnish the edge with delicate
      lettuce leaves and serve
    at once.= Peach Salad.= (English style.) Cut ripe, fine-flavored
peaches into quarters, after removing the skins.
      

    Cover with champagne,
      
    thoroughly chilled,
      and sprinkle with tea-rose petals.

    Reveal, O grace, unto the world
      Thy beauties rich and rare,
    That all may understand and know
      What mothers find in prayer.

