About Shakespeare's time many new inventions and luxuries came in: masks, muffs, fans, periwigs,
shoe-roses, love-handkerchiefs (tokens given by maids and gentlewomen to their favorites),
heath-brooms for hair-brushes, scarfs, garters, waistcoats, flat-caps; also hops, turkeys,
apricots, Venice glass, tobacco. In 1524, and for years after, was used this rhyme

        "Turkeys, Carpes, Hops: Piccarel, and beers,
        Came into England: all in one year."

There were no coffee-houses as yet, for neither tea nor coffee was introduced till about 1661.
Tobacco was first made known in England by Sir John Hawkins in 1565, though not commonly used
by men and women till some years after. It was urged as a great medicine for many ills. Harrison
says, 1573, "In these days the taking in of the smoke of the Indian herb called 'Tabaco,' by
an instrument formed like a little ladle, whereby it passeth from the mouth into the head and
stomach, is greatly taken up and used in England, against Rewmes and some other diseases engendered
in the lungs and inward parts, and not without effect." It's use spread rapidly, to the disgust
of James I. and others, who doubted that it was good for cold, aches, humors, and rheums. In
1614 it was said that seven thousand houses lived by this trade, and that L 399,375 a year
was spent in smoke. Tobacco was even taken on the stage. Every base groom must have his pipe;
it was sold in all inns and ale-houses, and the shops of apothecaries, grocers, and chandlers
were almost never, from morning till night, without company still taking of tobacco.

There was a saying on the Continent that "England is a paradise for women, a prison for servants,
and a hell or purgatory for horses." The society was very simple compared with the complex
condition of ours, and yet it had more striking contrasts, and was a singular mixture of downrightness
and artificiality; plainness and rudeness of speech went with the utmost artificiality of dress
and manner. It is curious to note the insular, not to say provincial, character of the people
even three centuries ago. When the Londoners saw a foreigner very well made or particularly
handsome, they were accustomed to say, "It is a pity he is not an ENGLISHMAN." It is pleasant,
I say, to trace this "certain condescension" in the good old times. Jacob Rathgeb (1592) says
the English are magnificently dressed, and extremely proud and overbearing; the merchants,
who seldom go unto other countries, scoff at foreigners, who are liable to be ill-used by street
boys and apprentices, who collect in immense crowds and stop the way. Of course Cassandra Stubbes,
whose mind was set upon a better country, has little good to say of his countrymen.

"As concerning the nature, propertie, and disposition of the people they be desirous of new
fangles, praising things past, contemning things present, and coveting after things to come.
Ambitious, proud, light, and unstable, ready to be carried away with every blast of wind."
The French paid back with scorn the traditional hatred of the English for the French. Perlin
(1558) finds the people "proud and seditious, with bad consciences and unfaithful to their
word in war unfortunate, in peace unfaithful"; and there was a Spanish or Italian proverb:
"England, good land, bad people." But even Perlin likes the appearance of the people: "The
men are handsome, rosy, large, and dexterous, usually fair-skinned; the women are esteemed
the most beautiful in the world, white as alabaster, and give place neither to Italian, Flemish,
nor German; they are joyous, courteous, and hospitable (de bon recueil)." He thinks their manners,
however, little civilized: for one thing, they have an unpleasant habit of eructation at the
table (car iceux routent a la table sans honte & ignominie); which recalls Chaucer's description
of the Trumpington miller's wife and daughter:

        "Men might her rowtyng hearen a forlong,
        The wenche routeth eek par companye."

Another inference as to the table manners of the period is found in Coryat's "Crudities" (1611).
He saw in Italy generally a curious custom of using a little fork for meat, and whoever should
take the meat out of the dish with his fingers--would give offense. And he accounts for this
peculiarity quite naturally: "The reason of this their curiosity is, because the Italian cannot
by any means indure to have his dish touched with fingers, seeing all men's fingers are not
alike cleane." Coryat found the use of the fork nowhere else in Christendom, and when he returned,
and, oftentimes in England, imitated the Italian fashion, his exploit was regarded in a humorous
light. Busino says that fruits were seldom served at dessert, but that the whole population
were munching them in the streets all day long, and in the places of amusement; and it was
an amusement to go out into the orchards and eat fruit on the spot, in a sort of competition
of gormandize between the city belles and their admirers. And he avers that one young woman
devoured twenty pounds of cherries, beating her opponent by two pounds and a half.

All foreigners were struck with the English love of music and drink, of banqueting and good
cheer. Perlin notes a pleasant custom at table: during the feast you hear more than a hundred
times, "Drink iou" (he loves to air his English), that is to say, "Je m'en vois boyre a toy."
You respond, in their language, "Iplaigiu"; that is to say, "Je vous plege." If you thank them,
they say in their language, "God tanque artelay"; that is, "Je vous remercie de bon coeur."
And then, says the artless Frenchman, still improving on his English, you should respond thus:
"Bigod, sol drink iou agoud oin." At the great and princely banquets, when the pledge went
round and the heart's desire of lasting health, says the chronicler, "the same was straight
wayes knowne, by sound of Drumme and Trumpet, and the cannon's loudest voyce." It was so in
Hamlet's day:

        "And as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,
        The kettle-drum and trumpet thus bray out
        The triumph of his pledge."

According to Hentzner (1598), the English are serious, like the Germans, and love show and
to be followed by troops of servants wearing the arms of their masters; they excel in music
and dancing, for they are lively and active, though thicker of make than the French; they cut
their hair close in the middle of the head, letting it grow on either side; "they are good
sailors, and better pyrates, cunning, treacherous, and thievish;" and, he adds, with a touch
of satisfaction, "above three hundred are said to be hanged annually in London." They put a
good deal of sugar in their drink; they are vastly fond of great noises, firing of cannon,
beating of drums, and ringing of bells, and when they have a glass in their heads they go up
into some belfry, and ring the bells for hours together, for the sake of exercise. Perlin's
comment is that men are hung for a trifle in England, and that you will not find many lords
whose parents have not had their heads chopped off.

It is a pleasure to turn to the simple and hearty admiration excited in the breasts of all
susceptible foreigners by the English women of the time. Van Meteren, as we said, calls the
women beautiful, fair, well dressed, and modest. To be sure, the wives are, their lives only
excepted, entirely in the power of their husbands, yet they have great liberty; go where they
please; are shown the greatest honor at banquets, where they sit at the upper end of the table
and are first served; are fond of dress and gossip and of taking it easy; and like to sit before
their doors, decked out in fine clothes, in order to see and be seen by the passers-by. Rathgeb
also agrees that the women have much more liberty than in any other place. When old Busino
went to the Masque at Whitehall, his colleagues kept exclaiming, "Oh, do look at this one--oh,
do see that! Whose wife is this?--and that pretty one near her, whose daughter is she?" There
was some chaff mixed in, he allows, some shriveled skins and devotees of S. Carlo Borromeo,
but the beauties greatly predominated.

In the great street pageants, it was the beauty and winsomeness of the London ladies, looking
on, that nearly drove the foreigners wild. In 1606, upon the entry of the king of Denmark,
the chronicler celebrates "the unimaginable number of gallant ladies, beauteous virgins, and
other delicate dames, filling the windows of every house with kind aspect." And in 1638, when
Cheapside was all alive with the pageant of the entry of the queen mother, "this miserable
old queen," as Lilly calls Marie de' Medicis (Mr. Furnivall reproduces an old cut of the scene),
M. de la Serre does not try to restrain his admiration for the pretty women on view: only the
most fecund imagination can represent the content one has in admiring the infinite number of
beautiful women, each different from the other, and each distinguished by some sweetness or
grace to ravish the heart and take captive one's liberty. No sooner has he determined to yield
to one than a new object of admiration makes him repent the precipitation of his judgment.

And all the other foreigners were in the like case of "goneness." Kiechel, writing in 1585,
says, "Item, the women there are charming, and by nature so mighty pretty as I have scarcely
ever beheld, for they do not falsify, paint, or bedaub themselves as in Italy or other places;"
yet he confesses (and here is another tradition preserved) "they are somewhat awkward in their
style of dress." His second "item" of gratitude is a Netherland custom that pleased him--whenever
a foreigner or an inhabitant went to a citizen's house on business, or as a guest, he was received
by the master, the lady, or the daughter, and "welcomed" (as it is termed in their language);
"he has a right to take them by the arm and to kiss them, which is the custom of the country;
and if any one does not do so, it is regarded and imputed as ignorance and ill-breeding on
his part." Even the grave Erasmus, when he visited England, fell easily into this pretty practice,
and wrote with untheological fervor of the "girls with angel faces," who were "so kind and
obliging." "Wherever you come," he says, "you are received with a kiss by all; when you take
your leave you are dismissed with kisses; you return, kisses are repeated. They come to visit
you, kisses again; they leave you, you kiss them all round. Should they meet you anywhere,
kisses in abundance in fine, wherever you move there is nothing but kisses"--a custom, says
this reformer, who has not the fear of Stubbes before his eyes, "never to be sufficiently commended."

We shall find no more convenient opportunity to end this part of the social study of the age
of Shakespeare than with this naive picture of the sex which most adorned it. Some of the details
appear trivial; but grave history which concerns itself only with the actions of conspicuous
persons, with the manoeuvres of armies, the schemes of politics, the battles of theologies,
fails signally to give us the real life of the people by which we judge the character of an age.

III

When we turn from France to England in, the latter part of the sixteenth and the beginning
of the seventeenth century, we are in another atmosphere; we encounter a literature that smacks
of the soil, that is as varied, as racy, often as rude, as human life itself, and which cannot
be adequately appreciated except by a study of the popular mind and the history of the time
which produced it.

"Voltaire," says M. Guizot, "was the first person in France who spoke of Shakespeare's genius;
and although he spoke of him merely as a barbarian genius, the French public were of the opinion
that he had said too much in his favor. Indeed, they thought it nothing less than profanation
to apply the words genius and glory to dramas which they considered as crude as they were coarse."

Guizot was one of the first of his nation to approach Shakespeare in the right spirit--that
is, in the spirit in which he could hope for any enlightenment; and in his admirable essay
on "Shakespeare and His Times," he pointed out the exact way in which any piece or period of
literature should be studied, that is worth studying at all. He inquired into English civilization,
into the habits, manners, and modes of thought of the people for whom Shakespeare wrote. This
method, this inquiry into popular sources, has been carried much further since Guizot wrote,
and it is now considered the most remunerative method, whether the object of study is literature
or politics. By it not only is the literature of a period for the first time understood, but
it is given its just place as an exponent of human life and a monument of human action.

The student who takes up Shakespeare's plays for the purpose of either amusement or cultivation,
I would recommend to throw aside the whole load of commentary, and speculation, and disquisition,
and devote himself to trying to find out first what was the London and the England of Shakespeare's
day, what were the usages of all classes of society, what were the manners and the character
of the people who crowded to hear his plays, or who denounced them as the works of the devil
and the allies of sin. I say again to the student that by this means Shakespeare will become
a new thing to him, his mind will be enlarged to the purpose and scope of the great dramatist,
and more illumination will be cast upon the plays than is received from the whole race of inquisitors
into his phrases and critics of his genius. In the light of contemporary life, its visions
of empire, its spirit of adventure, its piracy, exploration, and warlike turmoil, its credulity
and superstitious wonder at natural phenomena, its implicit belief in the supernatural, its
faith, its virility of daring, coarseness of speech, bluntness of manner, luxury of apparel,
and ostentation of wealth, the mobility of its shifting society, these dramas glow with a new
meaning, and awaken a profounder admiration of the poet's knowledge of human life.

The experiences of the poet began with the rude and rural life of England, and when he passed
into the presence of the court and into the bustle of great London in an age of amazing agitation,
he felt still in his veins the throb of the popular blood. There were classic affectations
in England, there were masks and mummeries and classic puerilities at court and in noble houses--Elizabeth's
court would well have liked to be classical, remarks Guizot--but Shakespeare was not fettered
by classic conventionalities, nor did he obey the unities, nor attempt to separate on the stage
the tragedy and comedy of life--"immense and living stage," says the writer I like to quote
because he is French, upon which all things are represented, as it were, in their solid form,
and in the place which they occupied in a stormy and complicated civilization. In these dramas
the comic element is introduced whenever its character of reality gives it the right of admission
and the advantage of opportune appearance. Falstaff appears in the train of Henry V., and Doll
Tear-Sheet in the train of Falstaff; the people surround the kings, and the soldiers crowd
around their generals; all conditions of society, all the phases of human destiny appear by
turns in juxtaposition, with the nature which properly belongs to them, and in the position
which they naturally occupy. . . .

"Thus we find the entire world, the whole of human realities, reproduced by Shakespeare in
tragedy, which, in his eyes, was the universal theatre of life and truth."

It is possible to make a brutal picture of the England of Shakespeare's day by telling nothing
that is not true, and by leaving out much that is true. M. Taine, who has a theory to sustain,
does it by a graphic catalogue of details and traits that cannot be denied; only there is a
great deal in English society that he does not include, perhaps does not apprehend. Nature,
he thinks, was never so completely acted out. These robust men give rein to all their passions,
delight in the strength of their limbs like Carmen, indulge in coarse language, undisguised
sensuality, enjoy gross jests, brutal buffooneries. Humanity is as much lacking as decency.
Blood, suffering, does not move them. The court frequents bull and bear baitings; Elizabeth
beats her maids, spits upon a courtier's fringed coat, boxes Essex's ears; great ladies beat
their children and their servants. "The sixteenth century," he says, "is like a den of lions.
Amid passions so strong as these there is not one lacking. Nature appears here in all its violence,
but also in all its fullness. If nothing has been softened, nothing has been mutilated. It
is the entire man who is displayed, heart, mind, body, senses, with his noblest and finest
aspirations, as with his most bestial and savage appetites, without the preponderance of any
dominant passion to cast him altogether in one direction, to exalt or degrade him. He has not
become rigid as he will under Puritanism. He is not uncrowned as in the Restoration." He has
entered like a young man into all the lusty experiences of life, every allurement is known,
the sweetness and novelty of things are strong with him. He plunges into all sensations. "Such
were the men of this time, Raleigh, Essex, Elizabeth, Henry VIII himself, excessive and inconstant,
ready for devotion and for crime, violent in good and evil, heroic with strange weaknesses,
humble with sudden changes of mood, never vile with premeditation like the roisterers of the
Restoration, never rigid on principle like the Puritans of the Revolution, capable of weeping
like children, and of dying like men, often base courtiers, more than once true knights, displaying
constantly, amidst all these contradictions of bearing, only the overflowing of nature. Thus
prepared, they could take in everything, sanguinary ferocity and refined generosity, the brutality
of shameless debauchery, and the most divine innocence of love, accept all the characters,
wantons and virgins, princes and mountebanks, pass quickly from trivial buffoonery to lyrical
sublimities, listen alternately to the quibbles of clowns and the songs of lovers. The drama
even, in order to satisfy the prolixity of their nature, must take all tongues, pompous, inflated
verse, loaded with imagery, and side by side with this vulgar prose; more than this, it must
distort its natural style and limits, put songs, poetical devices in the discourse of courtiers
and the speeches of statesmen; bring on the stage the fairy world of opera, as Middleton says,
gnomes, nymphs of the land and sea, with their groves and meadows; compel the gods to descend
upon the stage, and hell itself to furnish its world of marvels. No other theatre is so complicated,
for nowhere else do we find men so complete."

M. Taine heightens this picture in generalizations splashed with innumerable blood-red details
of English life and character. The English is the most warlike race in Europe, most redoubtable
in battle, most impatient of slavery. "English savages" is what Cellini calls them; and the
great shins of beef with which they fill themselves nourish the force and ferocity of their
instincts. To harden them thoroughly, institutions work in the same groove as nature. The nation
is armed. Every man is a soldier, bound to have arms according to his condition, to exercise
himself on Sundays and holidays. The State resembles an army; punishments must inspire terror;
the idea of war is ever present. Such instincts, such a history, raises before them with tragic
severity the idea of life; death is at hand, wounds, blood, tortures. The fine purple cloaks,
the holiday garments, elsewhere signs of gayety of mind, are stained with blood and bordered
with black. Throughout a stern discipline, the axe ready for every suspicion of treason; "great
men, bishops, a chancellor, princes, the king's relations, queens, a protector kneeling in
the straw, sprinkled the Tower with their blood; one after the other they marched past, stretched
out their necks; the Duke of Buckingham, Queen Anne Boleyn, Queen Catherine Howard, the Earl
of Surrey, Admiral Seymour, the Duke of Somerset, Lady Jane Grey and her husband, the Duke
of Northumberland, the Earl of Essex, all on the throne, or on the steps of the throne, in
the highest ranks of honor, beauty, youth, genius; of the bright procession nothing is left
but senseless trunks, marred by the tender mercies of the executioner."

The gibbet stands by the highways, heads of traitors and criminals grin on the city gates.
Mournful legends multiply, church-yard ghosts, walking spirits. In the evening, before bedtime,
in the vast country houses, in the poor cottages, people talk of the coach which is seen drawn
by headless horses, with headless postilions and coachmen. All this, with unbounded luxury,
unbridled debauchery, gloom, and revelry hand in hand. "A threatening and sombre fog veils
their mind like their sky, and joy, like the sun, pierces through it and upon them strongly
and at intervals." All this riot of passion and frenzy of vigorous life, this madness and sorrow,
in which life is a phantom and destiny drives so remorselessly, Taine finds on the stage and
in the literature of the period.

