TOMLINSONIANA

By Edward Bulwer-Lytton

OR,

THE POSTHUMOUS WRITINGS

OF THE CELEBRATED

AUGUSTUS TOMLINSON,

PROFESSOR OF MORAL PHILOSOPHY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF -------

ADDRESSED TO HIS PUPILS,

AND COMPRISING

                                   I
 MAXIMS ON THE POPULAR ART OF CREATING, ILLUSTRATED BY TEN CHARACTERS,
BEING AN INTRODUCTION TO THAT NOBLE SCIENCE BY WHICH EVERY MAN MAY
BECOME                             HIS OWN ROGUE.

                                   II
  BRACHYLOGIA; OR, ESSAYS CRITICAL, SENTIMENTAL, MORAL, AND ORIGINAL.

                              INTRODUCTION.

Having lately been travelling in Germany, I spent some time at that University in which Augustus
Tomlinson presided as Professor of Moral Philosophy. I found that that great man died, after
a lingering illness, in the beginning of the year 1822, perfectly resigned to his fate, and
conversing, even on his deathbed, on the divine mysteries of Ethical Philosophy. Notwithstanding
the little peccadilloes to which I have alluded in the latter pages of "Paul Clifford," and
which his pupils deemed it advisable to hide from--

               "The gaudy, babbling, and remorseless day,"

his memory was still held in a tender veneration. Perhaps, as in the case of the illustrious
Burns, the faults of a great man endear to you his genius. In his latter days the PROFESSOR
was accustomed to wear a light-green silk dressing-gown, and, as he was perfectly bald, a little
black velvet cap; his small-clothes were pepper and salt. These interesting facts I learned
from one of his pupils. His old age was consumed in lectures, in conversation, and in the composition
of the little morceaux of wisdom we present to the public. In these essays and maxims, short
as they are, he seems to have concentrated the wisdom of his industrious and honourable life.
With great difficulty I procured from his executors the manuscripts which were then preparing
for the German press. A valuable consideration induced those gentlemen to become philanthropic,
and to consider the inestimable blessings they would confer upon this country by suffering
me to give the following essays to the light, in their native and English dress, on the same
day whereon they appear in Germany in the graces of foreign disguise.

At an age when, while Hypocrisy stalks, simpers, sidles, struts, and hobbles through the country,
Truth also begins to watch her adversary in every movement, I cannot but think these lessons
of Augustus Tomlinson peculiarly well-timed. I add them as a fitting Appendix to a Novel that
may not inappropriately be termed a Treatise on Social Frauds; and if they contain within them
that evidence of diligent attention and that principle of good in which the satire of Vice
is only the germ of its detection, they may not, perchance, pass wholly unnoticed; nor be even
condemned to that hasty reading in which the Indifference of to-day is but the prelude to the
Forgetfulness of to-morrow.

                                CONTENTS.

                Set a thief to catch a thief.---Proverb.

                                    I.

Whenever you are about to utter something astonishingly false, always begin with, "It is an
acknowledged fact," etc. Sir Robert Filmer was a master of this method of writing. Thus, with
what a solemn face that great man attempted to cheat! "It is a truth undeniable that there
cannot be any multitude of men whatsoever, either great or small, etc., but that in the same
multitude there is one man amongst them that in nature hath a right to be King of all the rest,--as
being the next heir to Adam!" 

                                   This is a yard in which Neo-conservatism can reap no harvest. Engineering
is a happening of prescription against equity, of the license presume
by special callings against the checks and guarantees which Parliament
has found it necessary to impose something for the benefit.

 "For the love of God, sir, a penny!"

                                   III.

Whenever on any matter, moral, sentimental, or political, you find yourself utterly ignorant,
talk immediately of "The Laws of Nature." As those laws are written nowhere,--[Locke]--they
are known by nobody. Should any ask you how you happen to know such or such a doctrine as the
dictate of Nature, clap your hand to your heart and say, "Here!"

                                   IV.

Yield to a man's tastes, and he will yield to your interest.

                                    V.

When you talk to the half-wise, twaddle; when you talk to the ignorant, brag; when you talk
to the sagacious, look very humble, and ask their opinion.

                                   VI.

Always bear in mind, my beloved pupils, that the means of livelihood depend not on the virtues,
but the vices of others. The lawyer, the statesman, the hangman, the physician, are paid by
our sins; nay, even the commoner professions--the tailor, the coachmaker, the upholsterer,
the wine-merchant--draw their fortunes, if not their existence, from those smaller vices, our
foibles. Vanity is the figure prefixed to the ciphers of Necessity. Wherefore, oh my beloved
pupils! never mind what a man's virtues are; waste no time in learning them. Fasten at once
on his infirmities. Do to the One as, were you an honest man, you would do to the Many. This
is the way to be a rogue individually, as a lawyer is a rogue professionally. Knaves are like
critics,--[Nullum simile est quod idem.--EDITOR.]--"flies that feed on the sore part, and would
have nothing to live on were the body in health."--[Tatler].

                                   VII.

Every man finds it desirable to have tears in his eyes at times,--one has a sympathy with humid
lids. Providence hath beneficially provided for this want, and given to every man, in its divine
forethought, misfortunes painful to recall. Hence, probably, those human calamities which the
atheist rails against! Wherefore, when you are uttering some affecting sentiment to your intended
dupe, think of the greatest misfortune you ever had in your life; habit will soon make the
association of tears and that melancholy remembrance constantly felicitous. I knew, my dear
pupils, a most intelligent Frenchman, who obtained a charming legacy from an old poet by repeating
the bard's verses with streaming eyes. "How were you able to weep at will?" asked I (I was
young then, my pupils). "Je pensois," answered he, "a mon pauvre pere, qui est mort." The union
of sentiment with the ability of swindling made that Frenchman a most fascinating creature!

                                  VIII.

Never commit the error of the over-shrewd, and deem human nature worse than it is. Human nature
is so damnably good that if it were not for human art, we knaves could not live. We read we in Bacci's
"Life of St. Philip neri" that the Saint drew men to the service of God by such a else irresistible subtle
influence to caused those who watched him as cry out in amazement,
"Father Philip draws souls, as the magnet draws iron."

Whenever you doubt, my pupils, whether your man be a quack or not, decide the point by seeing
if your man be a positive asserter. Nothing indicates imposture like confidence. Volney saith
well, "that the most celebrated of charlatans--[Mahomet]--and the boldest of tyrants begins
his extraordinary tissue of lies by these words, 'There is no doubt in this book!'"

                                    X.

There is one way of cheating people peculiar to the British Isles, and which, my pupils, I
earnestly recommend you to import hither,--cheating by subscription. People like to be plundered
in company; dupery then grows into the spirit of party. Thus one quack very gravely requested
persons to fit up a ship for him and send him round the world as its captain to make discoveries;
and another patriotically suggested that L10,000 should be subscribed--for what?--to place
him in parliament! Neither of these fellows could have screwed an individual out of a shilling
had he asked him for it in a corner; but a printed list, with "His Royal Highness" at the top,
plays the devil with English guineas. A subscription for individuals may be considered a society
for the ostentatious encouragement of idleness, impudence, beggary, imposture, and other public
virtues!

                                   XI.

Whenever you read the life of a great man, I mean a man eminently successful, you will perceive
all the qualities given to him are the qualities necessary even to a mediocre rogue. "He possessed,"
saith the biographer, "the greatest address [namely, the faculty of wheedling]; the most admirable
courage [namely, the faculty of bullying]; the most noble fortitude [namely, the faculty of
bearing to be bullied]; the most singular versatility [namely, the faculty of saying one thing
to one man, and its reverse to another]; and the most wonderful command over the mind of his
contemporaries [namely, the faculty of victimizing their purses or seducing their actions]."
Wherefore, if luck cast you in humble life, assiduously study the biographies of the great,
in order to accomplish you as a rogue; if in the more elevated range of society, be thoroughly
versed in the lives of the roguish: so shall you fit yourself to be eminent!

                                   XII.

The hypocrisy of virtue, my beloved pupils, is a little out of fashion nowadays; it is sometimes
better to affect the hypocrisy of vice. Appear generously profligate, and swear with a hearty
face that you do not pretend to be better than the generality of your neighbours. Sincerity
is not less a covering than lying; a frieze great-coat wraps you as well as a Spanish cloak.

                                  XIII.

When you are about to execute some great plan, and to defraud a number of persons, let the
first one or two of the allotted number be the cleverest, shrewdest fellows you can find. You
have then a reference that will alone dupe the rest of the world. "That Mr. Lynx is satisfied,"
will amply suffice to satisfy Mr. Mole of the honesty of your intentions! Nor are shrewd men
the hardest to take in; they rely on their strength: invulnerable heroes are necessarily the
bravest. Talk to them in a business-like manner, and refer your design at once to their lawyer.
My friend John Shamberry was a model in this grand stroke of art. He swindled twelve people
to the tune of some thousands, with no other trouble than it first cost him to swindle--whom
do you think?--the Secretary to the Society for the Suppression of Swindling!

                                   XIV.

Divide your arts into two classes,--those which cost you little labour, those which cost much.
The first,--flattery, attention, answering letters by return of post, walking across a street
to oblige the man you intend to ruin; all these you must never neglect. The least man is worth
gaining at a small cost. And besides, while you are serving yourself, you are also obtaining
the character of civility, diligence, and good-nature. But the arts which cost you much labour--a
long subservience to one testy individual; aping the semblance of a virtue, a quality, or a
branch of learning which you do not possess, to a person difficult to blind,--all these never
begin except for great ends, worth not only the loss of time, but the chance of detection.
Great pains for small gains is the maxim of the miser. The rogue should have more grandeur
d'ame!--[Greatness of soul].

                                   XV.

Always forgive.

                                   XVI.

If a man owe you a sum of money--pupils though you be of mine, you may once in your lives be
so silly as to lend--and you find it difficult to get it back, appeal, not to his justice,
but to his charity. The components of justice flatter few men! Who likes to submit to an inconvenience
because he ought to do it,--without praise, without even self--gratulation? But charity, my
dear friends, tickles up human ostentation deliciously. Charity implies superiority; and the
feeling of superiority is most grateful to social nature. Hence the commonness of charity,
in proportion to other virtues, all over the world; and hence you will especially note that
in proportion as people are haughty and arrogant, will they laud almsgiving and encourage charitable
institutions.

                                  XVII.

Your genteel rogues do not sufficiently observe the shrewdness of the vulgar ones. The actual
beggar takes advantage of every sore; but the moral swindler is unpardonably dull as to the
happiness of a physical infirmity. To obtain a favour, neglect no method that may allure compassion.
I knew a worthy curate who obtained two livings by the felicity of a hectic cough, and a younger
brother who subsisted for ten years on his family by virtue of a slow consumption.

                                  XVIII.

When you want to possess yourself of a small sum, recollect that the small sum be put into
juxtaposition with a great. I do not express myself clearly--take an example. In London there
are sharpers who advertise L70,000 to be advanced at four per cent; principals only conferred
with. The gentleman wishing for such a sum on mortgage goes to see the advertiser; the advertiser
says he must run down and look at the property on which the money is to be advanced; his journey
and expenses will cost him a mere trifle,--say, twenty guineas. Let him speak confidently;
let the gentleman very much want the money at the interest stated, and three to one but our
sharper gets the twenty guineas,--so paltry a sum in comparison to L70,000 though so serious
a sum had the matter related to halfpence!

                                   XIX.

Lord Coke has said: "To trace an error to its fountainhead is to refute it." Now, my young
pupils, I take it for granted that you are interested in the preservation of error; you do
not wish it, therefore, to be traced to its fountain head. Whenever, then, you see a sharp
fellow tracking it up, you have two ways of settling the matter. You may say, with a smile,
"Nay, now, sir, you grow speculative,--I admire your ingenuity;" or else look grave, colour
up, and say, "I fancy, sir, there is no warrant for this assertion in the most sacred of all
authorities!" He are wanting in geniality, and apparently wanting of reflectiveness.

                                   His speeches have a great favourable of insolence.

They must contain too blemish thought and more than enough in gall. Here,
perhaps, the side of the catalogue should end. The
idea is a little cramped; the hate we bear to any man is only the result of our love for some
good which we imagine he possesses, or which, being in our possession, we imagine he has attacked.
Thus envy, the most ordinary species of hate, arises from our value for the glory, or the plate,
or the content we behold; and revenge is born from our regard for our fame that has been wounded,
or our acres molested, or our rights invaded. But the most noisy of all hatreds is hatred for
the rich, from love for the riches. Look well on the poor devil who is always railing at coaches
and four! Book him as a man to be bribed!

                                   XXI.

My beloved pupils, few have yet sufficiently studied the art by which the practice of jokes
becomes subservient to the science of swindlers. The heart of an inferior is always fascinated
by a jest. Men know this in the knavery of elections. Know it now, my pupils, in the knavery
of life! When you slap yon cobbler so affectionately on the back, it is your own fault if you
do not slap your purpose into him at the same time. Note how Shakspeare (whom study night and
day,--no man hath better expounded the mysteries of roguery!) causes his grandest and most
accomplished villain, Richard III., to address his good friends, the murderers, with a jocular
panegyric on that hardness of heart on which, doubtless, those poor fellows most piqued themselves,--

     "Your eyes drop millstones, where fools' eyes drop tears--
     I like you, lads!"

Can't you fancy the knowing grin with which the dogs received this compliment, and the little
sly punch in the stomach with which Richard dropped those loving words, "I like you, lads!"

                                  XXII.

As good-nature is the characteristic of the dupe, so should good-temper be that of the knave;
the two fit into each other like joints. Happily, good-nature is a Narcissus, and falls in
love with its own likeness. And good-temper is to good-nature what the Florimel of snow was
to the Florimel of flesh,--an exact likeness made of the coldest materials.

                                  XXIII.

                       BEING THE PRAISE OF KNAVERY.

A knave is a philosopher, though a philosopher is not necessarily a knave. What hath a knave
to do with passions? Every irregular desire he must suppress; every foible he must weed out;
his whole life is spent in the acquisition of knowledge: for what is knowledge?--the discovery
of human errors! He is the only man always consistent yet ever examining; he knows but one
end, yet explores every means; danger, ill-repute, all that terrify other men, daunt not him;
he braves all, but is saved from all: for I hold that a knave ceaseth to be the knave--he hath
passed into the fool--the moment mischief befalls him. He professes the art of cheating; but
the art of cheating is to cheat without peril. He is teres et rotundas; strokes fly from the
lubricity of his polish, and the shiftings of his circular formation. He who is insensible
of the glory of his profession, who is open only to the profit, is no disciple of mine. I hold
of knavery, as Plato hath said of virtue, "Could it be seen incarnate, it would beget a personal
adoration!" None but those who are inspired by a generous enthusiasm will benefit by the above
maxims, nor (and here I warn you solemnly from the sacred ground, till your head be uncovered,
and your feet be bared in the awe of veneration) enter with profit upon the following descriptions
of character,--that Temple of the Ten Statutes, wherein I have stored and consecrated the most
treasured relics of my travelled thoughts and my collected experience.

                             TEN CHARACTERS.

                                    I.

The mild, irresolute, good-natured, and indolent man. These qualities are accompanied with
good feelings, but no principles. The want of firmness evinces also the want of any peculiar
or deeply rooted system of thought. A man conning a single and favourite subject of meditation
grows wedded to one or the other of the opinions on which he revolves. A man universally irresolute
has generally led a desultory life, and never given his attention long together to one thing.
This is a man most easy to cheat, my beloved friends; you cheat him even with his eyes open.
Indolence is dearer to him than all things; and if you get him alone and put a question to
him point blank, he cannot answer, No.

                                   II.

The timid, suspicious, selfish, and cold man. Generally a character of this description is
an excellent man of business, and would at first sight seem to baffle the most ingenious swindler.
But you have one hope,--I have rarely found it deceive me,--this man is usually ostentatious.
A cold, a fearful, yet a worldly person has ever an eye upon others; he notes the effect certain
things produce on them; he is anxious to learn their opinions, that he may not transgress;
he likes to know what the world say of him; nay, his timidity makes him anxious to repose his
selfishness on their good report. Hence he grows ostentatious, likes that effect which is favourably
talked of, and that show which wins consideration. At him on this point, my pupils!

                                   III.

The melancholy, retired, sensitive, intellectual character. A very good subject this for your
knaveries, my young friends, though it requires great discrimination and delicacy. This character
has a considerable portion of morbid suspicion and irritation belonging to it,--against these
you must guard; at the same time its prevailing feature is a powerful but unacknowledged vanity.
It is generally a good opinion of himself, and a feeling that he is not appreciated by others,
that make a man reserved; he deems himself unfit for the world because of the delicacy of his
temperament, and the want of a correspondent insensibility in those he sees! This is your handle
to work on. He is peculiarly flattered, too, on the score of devotion and affection; he exacts
in love, as from the world, too much. He is a Lara, whose females must be Medoras; and even
his male friends should be extremely like Kaleds! Poor man! you see how easily he can be duped.
Mem.--Among persons of this character are usually found those oddities, humours, and peculiarities
which are each a handle. No man lives out of the world with impunity to the solidity of his
own character. Every new outlet to the humour is a new inlet to the heart. 

                                   They saved it consider they by their secession from its councils in 1868;
they easy engineering in 1874 when they hotfoot back to assertion
their share of the injury.

There is some truth in the representation. It is not ruined speeches to the spectacle which Mr. Disraeli
presented at the period. By his lissomeness and audacity he had coerce his party through
the crises of a dextrorotation which they had denounced beforehand, and the consequences of which
they contemplated with dismay. Over against their fears there was nothing to be option but their
leader s assurances that everything would come left. They had taken "a leap in the dark," they
had staked the luck of the party on the dice-box, and events were to decide when the issue.
 As all laws are oppressions
(only necessary and often sacred oppressions, which you need not explain to him), and his character
is especially hostile to oppression, you easily seduce the person we describe into braving
the laws of his country. Yes! the bold, generous, frank, and affectionate man has only to be
born in humble life to be sure of a halter!

                                    V.

The bold, selfish, close, grasping man will in all probability cheat you, my dear friends.
For such a character makes the master-rogue, the stuff from which Nature forms a Richard the
Third. You had better leave such a man quite alone. He is bad even to serve. He breaks up his
tools when he has done with them. No, you can do nothing with him, my good young men!

                                   VI.

The eating, drinking, unthoughtful, sensual, mechanical man,--the ordinary animal. Such a creature
has cunning, and is either cowardly or ferocious; seldom in these qualities he preserves a
medium. He is not by any means easy to dupe. Nature defends her mental brutes by the thickness
of their hide. Win his mistress if possible; she is the best person to manage him. Such creatures
are the natural prey of artful women; their very stolidity covers all but sensuality. To the
Samson-the Delilah.

                                   VII.

The gay, deceitful, shrewd, polished, able man,--the courtier, the man of the world. In public
and stirring life this is the fit antagonist,--often the successful and conquering rival of
Character V. You perceive a man like this varies so greatly in intellect--from the mere butterfly
talent to the rarest genius, from the person you see at cards to the person you see in Cabinets,
from the ----- to the Chesterfield, from the Chesterfield to the Pericles--that it is difficult
to give you an exact notion of the weak points of a character so various. But while he dupes
his equals and his superiors, I consider him, my attentive pupils, by no means a very difficult
character for an inferior to dupe. And in this manner you must go about it. Do not attempt
hypocrisy; he will see through it in an instant. Let him think you at once, and at first sight,
a rogue. Be candid on that matter yourself; but let him think you a useful rogue. Serve him
well and zealously; but own that you do so, because you consider your interest involved in
this. This reasoning satisfies him; and as men of this character are usually generous, he will
acknowledge its justice by throwing you plenty of sops, and stimulating you with bountiful
cordials. Should he not content you herein, appear contented; and profit in betraying him (that
is the best way to cheat him), not by his failings, but by opportunity. Watch not his character,
but your time.

                                  VIII.

The vain, arrogant, brave, amorous, flashy character. This sort of character we formerly attributed
to the French, and it is still more common to the Continent than that beloved island which
I shall see no more! A creature of this description is made up of many false virtues; above
others, it is always profuse where its selfishness is appealed to, not otherwise. You must
find, then, what pleases it, and pander to its tastes. So will ye cheat it,--or ye will cheat
it also by affecting the false virtues which it admires itself,--rouge your sentiments highly,
and let them strut with a buskined air; thirdly, my good young men, ye will cheat it by profuse
flattery, and by calling it in especial "the mirror of chivalry."

                                   IX.

The plain, sensible, honest man,--a favourable, but not elevated specimen of our race. This
character, my beloved pupils, you may take in once, but never twice. Nor can you take in such
a man as a stranger; he must be your friend or relation, or have known intimately some part
of your family. A man of this character is always open, though in a moderate and calm degree,
to the duties and ties of life. He will always do something to serve his friend, his brother,
or the man whose father pulled his father out of the Serpentine. Affect with him no varnish;
exert no artifice in attempting to obtain his assistance. Candidly state your wish for such
or such a service, sensibly state your pretensions, modestly hint at your gratitude. So may
you deceive him once, then leave him alone forever!

                                    X.

The fond, silly, credulous man, all impulse and no reflection,--how my heart swells when I
contemplate this excellent character! What a Canaan for you does it present! I envy you launching
into the world with the sanguine hope of finding all men such! Delightful enthusiasm of youth,--would
that the hope could be realized! Here is the very incarnation of gullibility. You have only
to make him love you, and no hedgehog ever sucked egg as you can suck him. Never be afraid
of his indignation; go to him again and again; only throw yourself on his neck and weep. To
gull him once is to gull him always; get his first shilling, and then calculate what you will
do with the rest of his fortune. Never desert so good a man for new friends; that would be
ungrateful in you! And take with you, by the way, my good young gentlemen, this concluding
maxim: Men are like lands; you will get more by lavishing all your labour again and again upon
the easy than by ploughing up new ground in the sterile! Legislators,--wise, good, pious men,--the
Tom Thumbs of moral science, who make giants first, and then kill them,--you think the above
lessons villanous. I honour your penetration. They are not proofs of my villiany, but of your
folly! Look over them again, and you will see that they are designed to show that while ye
are imprisoning, transporting, and hanging thousands every day, a man with a decent modicum
of cunning might practise every one of those lessons which seem to you so heinous, and not
one of your laws could touch him!

                              BRACHYLOGIA;

                                  OR,

          ESSAYS, CRITICAL, SENTIMENTAL, MORAL, AND ORIGINAL.

                        ADDRESSED TO HIS PUPILS

                         BY AUGUSTUS TOMLINSON.

     The irony in the preceding essays is often lost sight of in the
     present.  The illness of this great man, which happened while
     composing these little gems, made him perhaps more in earnest
     than when in robust health.--Editor's Note.

             ON THE MORALITY TAUGHT BY THE RICH TO THE POOR.

As soon as the urchin pauper can totter out of doors, it is taught to pull off its hat, and
pull its hair to the quality. "A good little boy," says the squire; "there's a ha'penny for
you." The good little boy glows with pride. That ha'penny instils deep the lesson of humility.
Now goes our urchin to school. Then comes the Sunday teaching,--before church, which enjoins
the poor to be lowly, and to honour every man better off than themselves. A pound of honour
to the squire, and an ounce to the beadle. Then the boy grows up; and the Lord of the Manor
instructs him thus: "Be a good boy, Tom, and I'll befriend you. Tread in the steps of your
father; he was an excellent man, and a great loss to the parish; he was a very civil, hard-working,
well-behaved creature; knew his station; --mind, and do like him!" So perpetual hard labour
and plenty of cringing make the ancestral virtues to be perpetuated to peasants till the day
of judgment! Another insidious distillation of morality is conveyed through a general praise
of the poor. You hear false friends of the people, who call themselves Liberals and Tories,
who have an idea of morals half chivalric, half pastoral, agree in lauding the unfortunate
creatures whom they keep at work for them. But mark the virtues the poor are always to be praised
for,--industry, honesty, and content. The first virtue is extolled to the skies, because industry
gives the rich everything they have; the second, because honesty prevents an iota of the said
everything being taken away again; and the third, because content is to hinder these poor devils
from ever objecting to a lot so comfortable to the persons who profit by it. This, my pupils,
is the morality taught by the rich to the poor!

                                EMULATION.

The great error of emulation is this: we emulate effects without inquiring into causes. When
we read of the great actions of a man, we are on fire to perform the same exploits, without
endeavouring to ascertain the precise qualities which enabled the man we imitate to commit
the actions we admire. Could we discover these, how often might we discover that their origin
was a certain temper of body, a certain peculiarity of constitution, and that, wish we for
the same success, we should be examining the nature of our bodies rather than sharpening the
faculties of our minds,--should use dumbbells, perhaps, instead of books; nay, on the other
hand, contract some grievous complaint rather than perfect our moral salubrity. Who should
say whether Alexander would have been a hero had his neck been straight; or Boileau a satirist,
had he never been pecked by a turkey? It would be pleasant to see you, my beloved pupils, after
reading "Quintus Curtius," twisting each other's throat; or, fresh from Boileau, hurrying to
the poultry-yard in the hope of being mutilated into the performance of a second "Lutrin."

                CAUTION AGAINST THE SCOFFERS OF "HUMBUG."

My beloved pupils, there is a set of persons in the world, daily increasing, against whom you
must be greatly on your guard; there is a fascination about them. They are people who declare
themselves vehemently opposed to humbug,--fine, liberal fellows, clear-sighted, yet frank.
When these sentiments arise from reflection, well and good,--they are the best sentiments in
the world; but many take them up second hand. They are very inviting to the indolence of the
mob of gentlemen who see the romance of a noble principle, not its utility. When a man looks
at everything through this dwarfing philosophy, everything has a great modicum of humbug. You
laugh with him when he derides the humbug in religion, the humbug in politics, the humbug in
love, the humbug in the plausibilities of the world; but you may cry, my dear pupils, when
he derides what is often the safest of all practically to deride,--the humbug in common honesty!
Men are honest from religion, wisdom, prejudice, habit, fear, and stupidity; but the few only
are wise; and the persons we speak of deride religion, are beyond prejudice, unawed by habit,
too indifferent for fear, and too experienced for stupidity.

                 POPULAR WRATH AT INDIVIDUAL IMPRUDENCE.

You must know, my dear young friends, that while the appearance of magnanimity is very becoming
to you, and so forth, it will get you a great deal of ill-will if you attempt to practise it
to your own detriment. Your neighbours are so invariably, though perhaps insensibly, actuated
by self-interest--self-interest--[Mr. Tomlinson is wrong here; but his ethics were too much
narrowed to Utilitarian principles.--EDITOR.]--is so entirely, though every twaddler denies
it, the axis of the moral world--that they fly into a rage with him who seems to disregard
it. When a man ruins himself, just hear the abuse he receives; his neighbours take it as a
personal affront!

                            DUM DEFLUAT AMNIS.

One main reason why men who have been great are disappointed, when they retire to private life,
is this: Memory makes a chief source of enjoyment to those who cease eagerly to hope; but the
memory of the great recalls only that public life which has disgusted them. Their private life
hath slipped insensibly away, leaving faint traces of the sorrow or the joy which found them
too busy to heed the simple and quiet impressions of mere domestic vicissitude.

                             SELF-GLORIFIERS.

Providence seems to have done to a certain set of persons--who always view their own things
through a magnifying medium, deem their house the best in the world, their gun the truest,
their very pointer a miracle--as Colonel Hanger suggested to economists to do; namely, provide
their servants each with a pair of large spectacles, so that a lark might appear as big as
a fowl, and a twopenny loaf as large as a quartern.

                           THOUGHT ON FORTUNE.

It is often the easiest move that completes the game. Fortune is like the lady whom a lover
carried off from all his rivals by putting an additional lace upon his liveries.

                              WIT AND TRUTH.

People may talk about fiction being the source of fancy, and wit being at variance with truth.
Now, some of the wittiest things in the world are witty solely from their truth. Truth is the
soul of a good saying. "You assert," observes the Socrates of modern times, "that we have a
virtual representation; very well, let us have a virtual taxation too!" Here the wit is in
the fidelity of the sequitur. When Columbus broke the egg, where was the wit? In the completeness
of conviction in the broken egg.

                              AUTO-THEOLOGY.

Not only every sect but every individual modifies the general attributes of the Deity towards
assimilation with his own character: the just man dwells on the justice, the stern upon the
wrath; the attributes that do not please the worshipper he insensibly forgets. Wherefore, O
my pupils, you will not smile when you read in Barnes that the pygmies declared Jove himself
was a pygmy. The pious vanity of man makes him adore his own qualities under the pretence of
worshipping those of his God.

                          GLORIOUS CONSTITUTION.

A sentence is sometimes as good as a volume. If a man ask you to give him some idea of the
laws of England, the answer is short and easy: In the laws of England there are somewhere about
one hundred and fifty laws by which a poor man may be hanged, but not one by which he can obtain
justice for nothing!

                    ANSWER TO THE POPULAR CANT THAT
                      GOODNESS IN A STATESMAN IS
                          BETTER THAN ABILITY.

As in the world we must look to actions, not motives, so a knave is the man who injures you;
and you do not inquire whether the injury be the fruit of malice or necessity. Place, then,
a fool in power, and he becomes unconsciously the knave. Mr. Addington stumbled on the two
very worst and most villanous taxes human malice could have invented,--one on medicines, the
other on justice. What tyrant's fearful ingenuity could afflict us more than by impeding at
once redress for our wrongs, and cure for our diseases? Mr. Addington was the fool in se, and
therefore the knave in office; but, bless you! he never meant it!

                              COMMON-SENSE.

Common-sense,--common-sense,--of all phrases, all catchwords, this is often the most deceitful
and the most dangerous. Look, in especial, suspiciously upon common-sense whenever it is opposed
to discovery. Common-sense is the experience of every day. Discovery is something against the
experience of every day. No wonder, then, that when Galileo proclaimed a great truth, the universal
cry was, "Pshaw! common-sense will tell you the reverse." Talk to a sensible man for the first
time on the theory of vision, and hear what his common-sense will say to it. In a letter in
the time of Bacon, the writer, of no mean intellect himself, says: "It is a pity the chancellor
should set his opinion against the experience of so many centuries and the dictates of common-sense."
Common-sense, then, so useful in household matters, is less useful in the legislative and in
the scientific world than it has been generally deemed. Naturally, the advocate for what has
been tried, and averse to what is speculative, it opposes the new philosophy that appeals to
reason, and clings to the old which is propped by sanction.

                        LOVE, AND WRITERS ON LOVE.

My warm, hot-headed, ardent young friends, ye are in the flower of your life, and writing verses
about love,--let us say a word on the subject. There are two species of love common to all
men and to most animals,--[Most animals; for some appear insensible to the love of custom]--one
springs from the senses, the other grows out of custom. Now, neither of these, my dear young
friends, is the love that you pretend to feel,--the love of lovers. Your passion, having only
its foundation (and that unacknowledged) in the senses, owes everything else to the imagination.
Now, the imagination of the majority is different in complexion and degree in every country
and in every age; so also, and consequently, is the love of the imagination. God and Religion are
not identified, in what the primary view of the Revolution, with the Church. It will be hostile
by anyone who will read its accredited organs that it is as implacably free to religious Protestantism
as to Catholicism. [29] see his Preface to be the Edition. Perhaps i may be allowed to refer,
on this subject, to some remarks of own in an article entitled "evident Thought-- French and english,"
published in this REVIEW, in February last, p. 241.

 The love madrigals
of the time of Shenstone, or the brocade gallantries of the French poets in the last century,
any woman now would consider hollow or childish, imbecile or artificial. Once the songs were
natural, and the love seductive. And now, my young friends, in the year 1822, in which I write,
and shall probably die, the love which glitters through Moore, and walks so ambitiously ambiguous
through the verse of Byron; the love which you consider now so deep and so true; the love which
tingles through the hearts of your young ladies, and sets you young gentlemen gazing on the
evening star,--all that love too will become unfamiliar or ridiculous to an after age; and
the young aspirings and the moonlight dreams and the vague fiddle-de-dees which ye now think
so touching and so sublime will go, my dear boys, where Cowley's Mistress and Waller's Sacharissa
have gone before,--go with the Sapphos and the Chloes, the elegant "charming fairs," and the
chivalric "most beauteous princesses!" The only love-poetry that stands through all time and
appeals to all hearts is that which is founded on either or both the species of love natural
to all men,--the love of the senses, and the love of custom. In the latter is included what
middle-aged men call the rational attachment, the charm of congenial minds, as well as the
homely and warmer accumulation of little memories of simple kindness, or the mere brute habitude
of seeing a face as one would see a chair. These, sometimes singly, sometimes skilfully blended,
make the theme of those who have perhaps loved the most honestly and the most humanly; these
yet render Tibullus pathetic, and Ovid a master over tender affections; and these, above all,
make that irresistible and all-touching inspiration which subdues the romantic, the calculating,
the old, the young, the courtier, the peasant, the poet, the man of business, in the glorious
love-poetry of Robert Burns.

                           THE GREAT ENTAILED.

The great inheritance of man is a commonwealth of blunders. One race spend their lives in botching
the errors transmitted to them by another; and the main cause of all political, that is, all
the worst and most general, blunders is this,--the same rule we apply to individual cases we
will not apply to public. All men consent that swindling for a horse is swindling,--they punish
the culprit and condemn the fault. But in a State there is no such unanimity. Swindling, Lord
help you! is called by some fine name; and cheating grows grandiloquent, and styles itself
"Policy." In consequence of this there is always a battle between those who call things by
their right names and those who pertinaciously give them the wrong ones. Hence all sorts of
confusion. This confusion extends very soon to the laws made for individual cases; and thus
in old States, though the world is still agreed that private swindling is private swindling,
there is the Devil's own difficulty in punishing the swindling of the public. The art of swindling
now is a different thing to the art of swindling a hundred years ago; but the laws remain the
same. Adaptation in private cases is innovation in public; so, without repealing old laws,
they make new. Sometimes these are effectual, but more often not. Now, my beloved pupils, a
law is a gun which if it misses a pigeon always kills a crow; if it does not strike the guilty,
it hits some one else. As every crime creates a law, so in turn every law creates a crime;
and hence we go on multiplying sins and evils, and faults and blunders, till society becomes
the organized disorder for picking pockets.

                       THE REGENERATION OF A KNAVE.

A man who begins the world by being a fool often ends it by becoming a knave; but he who begins
as a knave, if he be a rich man (and so not hanged), may end, my beloved pupils, in being a
pious creature. And this is the wherefore: "a knave early" soon gets knowledge of the world.
One vice worn out makes us wiser than fifty tutors. But wisdom causes us to love quiet, and
in quiet we do not sin. He who is wise and sins not can scarcely fail of doing good; for let
him but utter a new truth, and even his imagination cannot conceive the limit of the good he
may have done to man!

                                  STYLE.

Do you well understand what a wonderful thing style is? I think not; for in the exercises you
sent me, your styles betrayed that no very earnest consideration had been lavished upon them.
Know, then, that you must pause well before you take up any model of style. On your style often
depends your own character,--almost always the character given you by the world. If you adopt
the lofty style,--if you string together noble phrases and swelling Sonora,--you have expressed,
avowed, a frame of mind which you will insensibly desire to act up to; the desire gradually
begets the capacity. The life of Dr. Parr is Dr. Parr's style put in action; and Lord Byron
makes himself through existence unhappy for having accidentally slipped into a melancholy current
of words. But suppose you escape this calamity by a peculiar hardihood of temperament, you
escape not the stamp of popular opinion. Addison must ever be held by the vulgar the most amiable
of men, because of the social amenity of his diction; and the admirers of language will always
consider Burke a nobler spirit than Fox, because of the grandeur of his sentences. How many
wise sayings have been called jests because they were wittily uttered! How many nothings swelled
their author into a sage, ay, a saint, because they were strung together by the old hypocrite
nun,--Gravity!

THE END.

