Frontispiece: Miss Lillian Gish as Anna Moore.  D. W. Griffith's Production.  'Way Down East.]

'WAY DOWN EAST

A ROMANCE OF NEW ENGLAND LIFE

BY

JOSEPH R. GRISMER

Founded on the Very Successful Play of the

Same Title by

LOTTIE BLAIR PARKER

  ILLUSTRATED WITH SCENES FROM
  D. W. GRIFFITH'S MAGNIFICENT
  MOTION PICTURE PRODUCTION OF THE
  ORIGINAL STORY AND STAGE PLAY

GROSSET & DUNLAP

PUBLISHERS -------------- NEW YORK

Copyright, 1900

By Joseph R. Grismer

'Way Down East

TABLE OF CONTENTS

CHAPTER

    I.  All Hail to the Conquering Hero.

   II.  The Conquering Hero is Disposed to be Human.

  III.  Containing Some Reflections and the Entrance
        of Mephistopheles.

   IV.  The Mock Marriage.

    V.  A Little Glimpse of the Garden of Eden.

   VI.  The Ways of Desolation.

  VII.  Mother and Daughter.

 VIII.  In Days of Waiting.

   IX.  On the Threshold of Shelter.

    X.  Anna and Sanderson Again Meet.

   XI.  Rustic Hospitality.

  XII.  Kate Brewster Holds Sanderson's Attention.

 XIII.  The Quality of Mercy.

  XIV.  The Village Gossip Sniffs Scandal.

   XV.  David Confesses his Love.

  XVI.  Alone in the Snow.

 XVII.  The Night in the Snowstorm.

ILLUSTRATIONS

Miss Lillian Gish as Anna Moore. . . . Frontispiece

Martha Perkins and Maria Poole.

Martha Perkins tells the story of Anna Moore's past life.

Lillian Gish and Burr McIntosh.

WAY DOWN EAST

CHAPTER I.

ALL HAIL TO THE CONQUERING HERO.

  Methinks I feel this youth's perfections,
  With an invisible and subtle stealth,
  To creep in at mine eyes.--Shakespeare.

It had come at last, the day of days, for the two great American universities; Harvard and
Yale were going to play their annual game of football and the railroad station of Springfield,
Mass., momentarily became more and more thronged with eager partisans of both sides of the
great athletic contest.

All the morning trains from New York, New Haven, Boston and the smaller towns had been pouring
their loads into Springfield.  Hampden Park was a sea of eager faces.  The weather was fine
and the waiting for the football game only added to the enjoyment--the appetizer before the feast.

The north side of the park was a crimson dotted mass full ten thousand strong; the south side
showed the same goodly number blue-bespeckled, and equally confident.  Little ripples of applause
woke along the banks as the familiar faces of old "grads" loomed up, then melted into the vast
throng.  These, too, were men of international reputation who had won their spurs in the great
battles of life, and yet, who came back year after year, to assist by applause in these mimic
battles of their Alma Mater.

But the real inspiration to the contestants, were the softer, sweeter faces scattered among
the more rugged ones like flowers growing among the grain--the smiles, the mantling glow of
round young cheeks, the clapping of little hands--these were the things that made broken collarbones,
scratched faces, and bruised limbs but so many honors to be contended for, votive offerings
to be laid at the little feet of these fair ones.

Mrs. Standish Tremont's party occupied, as usual, a prominent place on the Harvard side.  She
was so great a factor in the social life at Cambridge that no function could have been a complete
success without the stimulus of her presence.  Personally, Mrs. Standish Tremont was one of
those women who never grow old; one would no more have thought of hazarding a guess about her
age than one would have made a similar calculation about the Goddess of Liberty.  She was perennially
young, perennially good-looking, and her entertainments were above reproach. Some sour old
"Grannies" in Boston, who had neither her wit, nor her health, called her Venus Anno Domino,
but they were jealous and cynical and their testimony cannot be taken as reliable.

What if she had been splitting gloves applauding college games since the fathers of to-day's
contestants had fought and struggled for similar honors in this very field.  She applauded
with such vim, and she gave such delightful dinners afterward, that for the glory of old Harvard
it is to be hoped she will continue to applaud and entertain the grandsons of to-day's victors,
even as she had their sires.

It was said by the uncharitable that the secret of the lady's youth was the fact that she always
surrounded herself with young people, their pleasure, interests, entertainments were hers;
she never permitted herself to be identified with older people.

To-day, besides several young men who had been out of college for a year or two, she had her
husband's two nieces, the Misses Tremont, young women well known in Boston's inner circles,
her own daughter, a Mrs. Endicott, a widow, and a very beautiful young girl whom she introduced
as "My cousin, Miss Moore."

Miss Moore was the recipient of more attention than she could well handle.  Mrs. Tremont's
cavaliers tried to inveigle her into betting gloves and bon-bons; they reserved their wittiest
replica for her, they were her ardent allies in all the merry badinage with which their party
whiled away the time waiting for the game to begin.  Miss Moore was getting enough attention
to turn the heads of three girls.

At least, that was what her chaperone concluded as she skilfully concealed her dissatisfaction
with a radiant smile.  She liked girls to achieve social success when they were under her wing--it
was the next best thing to scoring success on her own account.  But, it was quite a different
matter to invite a poor relation half out of charity, half out of pity, and then have her outshine
one's own daughter, and one's nieces--the latter being her particular protégés--girls whom
she hoped to assist toward brilliant establishments.  The thought was a disquieting one, the
men of their party had been making idiots of themselves over the girl ever since they left
Boston; it was all very well to be kind to one's poor kin--but charity began at home when there
were girls who had been out three seasons!  What was it, that made the men lose their heads
like so many sheep?  She adjusted her lorgnette and again took an inventory of the girl's appearance.
It was eminently satisfactory even when viewed from the critical standard of Mrs. Standish
Tremont.  A delicately oval face, with low smooth brow, from which the night-black hair rippled
in softly crested waves and clung about the temples in tiny circling ringlets, delicate as
the faintest shading of a crayon pencil.  Heavily fringed lids that lent mysterious depths
to the great brown eyes that were sorrowful beyond their years. A mouth made for kisses--a
perfect Cupid's bow; in color, the red of the pomegranate--such was Anna Moore, the great lady's
young kinswoman, who was getting her first glimpse of the world this autumn afternoon.

"You were born to be a Harvard girl, Miss Moore, the crimson becomes you go perfectly, that
great bunch of Jacqueminots is just what you need to bring out the color in your cheeks," said
Arnold Lester, rather an old beau, and one of Mrs. Endicott's devoted cavaliers.

"Miss Moore is making her roses pale with envy," gallantly answered Robert Maynard.  He had
not been able to take his eyes from the girl's face since he met her.

Anna looked down at her roses and smiled.  Her gown and gloves were black.  The great fragrant
bunch was the only suggestion of color that she had worn for over a year.  She was still in
mourning for her father, one of the first great financial magnates to go under in the last
Wall Street crash.  His failure killed him, and the young daughter and the invalid wife were
left practically unprovided for.

Mrs. Tremont could hardly conceal her annoyance.  She had met her young cousin for the first
time the preceding summer and taking a fancy to her; she exacted a promise from the girl's
mother that Anna should pay her a visit the following autumn.  But she reckoned without the
girl's beauty and the havoc it would make with her plans.  The discussion as to the roses outvieing
Anna's cheeks in color was abruptly terminated by a great cheer that rolled simultaneously
along both sides of the field as the two teams entered the lists.  Cheer upon cheer went up,
swelled and grew in volume, only to be taken up again and again, till the sound became one
vast echoing roar without apparent end or beginning.

From the moment the teams appeared, Anna Moore had no eyes or ears for sights or sounds about
her.  Every muscle in her lithe young body was strained to catch a glimpse of one familiar
figure.  She had little difficulty in singling him out from the rest.  He had stripped off
his sweater and stood with head well down, his great limbs tense, straining for the word to
spring.  Anna's breath came quickly, as if she had been running, the roses that he had sent
her heaved with the tumult in her breast.  It seemed to her as if she must cry out with the
delight of seeing him again.

"Look, Grace," said Mrs. Standish Tremont, to the younger of her nieces, "there is Lennox Sanderson."

"Play!" called the referee, and at the word the Harvard wedge shot forward and crashed into
the onrushing mass of blue-legged bodies.  The mimic war was on, and raged with all the excitement
of real battle for the next three-quarters of an hour; the center was pierced, the flanks were
turned, columns were formed and broken, weak spots were protected, all the tactics of the science
of arms was employed, and yet, neither side could gain an advantage.

The last minutes of the first half of the game were spent desperately--Kenneth, the terrible
line breaker of Yale, made two famous charges, Lennox Sanderson, the famous flying half-back,
secured Harvard a temporary advantage by a magnificently supported run. "Time!" called the
referee, and the first half of the game was over.

For fifteen minutes the combatants rested, then resumed their massing, wedging and driving.
Sanderson, who had not appeared to over-exert himself during the first half of the game, gradually
began to turn the tide in favor of the crimson.  After a decoy and a scrimmage, Sanderson,
with the ball wedged tightly under one arm, was seen flying like a meteor, well covered by
his supports.  On he dashed at full speed for the much-desired touch-line.  The next minute
he had reached the goal and was buried under a pile of squirming bodies.

Then did the Harvard hosts burst into one mighty and prolonged cheer that made the air tremble.
Sanderson was the hero of the hour. Gray-haired old men jumped up and shouted his name with
that of the university.  It was one mad pandemonium of excitement, till the game was won, and
the crowd woke up amid the "Rah, Rahs, Harvard, Sanderson."

Anna's cheeks burned crimson.  She clapped her hands to the final destruction of her gloves.
She patted the roses he had sent her.  She had never dreamed that life was so beautiful, so
full of happiness.

She saw him again for just a moment, before they left the park.  He came up to speak to them,
with the sweat and grime of battle still upon him, his hair flying in the breeze.  The crowds
gave way for the hero; women gave him their brightest smiles; men involuntarily straightened
their shoulders in tribute to his inches.

Years afterwards, it seemed to Anna, in looking back on the tragedy of it all, that he had
never looked so handsome, never been so absolutely irresistible as on that autumn day when
he had taken her hand and said: "I couldn't help making that run with your eyes on me."

"And we shall see you at tea, on Saturday?" asked Mrs. Tremont.

"I shall be delighted," he answered: "thank you for persuading Miss Moore to stay over for
another week."  Mrs. Tremont smiled, she could smile if she were on the rack; but she assured
herself that she was done with poverty-stricken beauties till Grace and Maud were married,
at least.  For years she had been planning a match between Grace and Lennox Sanderson.

Anna and Sanderson exchanged looks.  Robert Maynard bit his lips and turned away.  He realized
that the dearest wish of his life was beyond reach of it forever.  "Ah, well," he murmured
to himself--"who could have a chance against Lennox Sanderson?"

CHAPTER II.

THE CONQUERING HERO IS DISPOSED TO BE HUMAN.

  "Her lips are roses over-wash'd with dew,
  Or like the purple of narcissus' flower;
  No frost their fair, no wind doth waste their powers,
  But by her breath her beauties do renew."--Robert Greene.

The dusk of an autumn afternoon was closing in on the well-filled library of Mrs. Standish
Tremont's Beacon street home.  The last rays of sunlight filtered softly through the rose silk
curtains and blended with the ruddy glow of fire-light.  The atmosphere of this room was more
invitingly domestic than that of any other room in Mrs. Tremont's somewhat bleakly luxurious home.

Perhaps it was the row upon row of books in their scarlet leather bindings, perhaps it was
the fine old collection of Dutch masterpieces, portraying homely scenes from Dutch life, that
robbed the air of the chilling effect of the more formal rooms; but, whatever was the reason,
the fact remained that the library was the room in which to dream dreams, appreciate comfort
and be content.

At least so it seemed to Anna Moore, as she glanced from time to time at the tiny French clock
that silently ticked away the hours on the high oaken mantel-piece.  Anna had dressed for tea
with more than usual care on this particular Saturday afternoon.  She wore a simply made house
gown of heavy white cloth, that hung in rich folds about her exquisite figure, that might have
seemed over-developed in a girl of eighteen, were it not for the long slender throat and tapering
waist of more than usual slenderness.

The dark hair was coiled high on top of the shapely head, and a few tendrils strayed about
her neck and brow.  She wore no ornaments--not even the simplest pin.

She was curled up in a great leather chair, in front of the open fire, playing with a white
angora kitten, who climbed upon her shoulder and generally conducted himself like a white ball
of animated yarn.  It was too bad that there was no painter at hand to transfer to canvas so
lovely a picture as this girl in her white frock made, sitting by the firelight in this mellow
old room, playing with a white imp of a kitten.  It would have made an ideal study in white
and scarlet.

How comfortable it all was; the book-lined walls, the repose and dignity of this beautiful
home, with its corps of well-trained servants waiting to minister to one's lightest wants.
The secure and sheltered feeling that it gave appealed strongly to the girl, who but a little
while ago had enjoyed similar surroundings in her father's house.

And then, there had been that awful day when her father's wealth had vanished into air like
a burst bubble, and he had come home with a white drawn face and gone to bed, never again to
rise from it.

Anna did not mind the privations that followed on her own account, but they were pitifully
hard on her invalid mother, who had been used to every comfort all her life.

After they had left New York, they had taken a little cottage in Waltham, Mass., and it was
here that Mrs. Standish Tremont had come to call on her relatives in their grief and do what
she could toward lightening their burdens.  Anna was worn out with the constant care of her
mother, and would only consent to go away for a rest, because the doctor told her that her
health was surely breaking under the strain, and that if she did not go, there would be two
invalids instead of one.

It was at Mrs. Tremont's that she had met Lennox Sanderson, and from the first, both seemed
to be under the influence of some subtle spell that drew them together blindly, and without
the consent of their wills.  Mrs. Tremont, who viewed the growing attraction of these two young
people with well-concealed alarm, watched every opportunity to prevent their enjoying each
other's society.  It irritated her that one of the wealthiest and most influential men in Harvard
should take such a fancy to her penniless young relative, instead of to Grace Tremont, whom
she had selected for his wife.

There were few things that Mrs. Tremont enjoyed so much as arranging romances in everyday life.

"Pardon me, Miss Moore," said the butler, standing at her elbow, "but there has been a telephone
message from Mrs. Tremont, saying that she and Mrs. Endicott have been detained, and will you
be kind enough to explain this to Mr. Sanderson."  Anna never knew what the message cost Mrs.
Tremont.

A moment later, Sanderson's card was sent up; Anna rose to meet him with swiftly beating heart.

"What perfect luck," he said.  "How do I happen to find you alone? Usually you have a regiment
of people about you."

"Cousin Frances has just telephoned that she has been detained, and I suppose I am to entertain
you till her return."

"I shall be sufficiently entertained if I may have the pleasure of looking at you."

"Till dinner time?  You could never stand it."  She laughed.

"It would be a pleasure till eternity."

"At any rate," said Anna, "I am not going to put you to the test.  If you will be good enough
to ring for tea, I will give you a cup."

The butler brought in the tea.  Anna lighted the spirit lamp with pretty deftness, and proceeded
to make tea.

"I could not have taken this, even from your hands last week, Anna--pardon me, Miss Moore."

"And why not?  Had you been taking pledges not to drink tea?"

"It seems to me as if I've been living on rare beef and whole wheat bread ever since I can
remember----"

"Oh, yes, I forgot about your being in training for the game, but you did so magnificently,
you ought not to mind it.  Why, you made Harvard win the game.  We were all so proud of you."

"All!  I don't care about 'all.'  Were you proud of me?"

"Of course I was," she answered with the loveliest blush.

"Then it is amply repaid."

"Let me give you another cup of tea."

"No, thanks, I don't care about any more, but if you will let me talk to you about something--
See here, Anna.  Yes, I mean Anna.  What nonsense for us to attempt to keep up the Miss Moore
and Mr. Sanderson business.  I used to scoff at love at first sight and say it was all the
idle fancy of the poets.  Then I met you and remained to pray. You've turned my world topsy-turvy.
I can't think without you, and yet it would be folly to tell this to my Governor, and ask his
consent to our marriage.  He wants me to finish college, take the usual trip around the world
and then go into the firm.  Besides, he wants me to eventually marry a cousin of mine--a girl
with a lot of money and with about as much heart as would fit on the end of a pin."

She had followed this speech with almost painful attention.  She bit her lips till they were
but a compressed line of coral.  At last she found words to say:

"We must not talk of these things, Mr. Sanderson.  I have to go back and care for my mother.
She is an invalid and needs all my attention. Bedsides, we are poor; desperately poor.  I am
here in your world, only through the kindness of my cousin, Mrs. Tremont."

"It was your world till a year ago, Anna.  I know all about your father's failure, and how
nobly you have done your part since then, and it kills me to think of you, who ought to have
everything, spending your life--your youth--in that stupid little Waltham, doing the work of
a housemaid."

"I am very glad to do my part," she answered him bravely, but her eyes were full of unshed tears.

"Anna, dearest, listen to me."  He crossed over to where she sat and took her hand.  "Can't
you have a little faith in me and do what I am going to ask you?  There is the situation exactly.
My father won't consent to our marriage, so there is no use trying to persuade him. And here
you are--a little girl who needs some one to take care of you and help you take care of your
mother, give her all the things that mean so much to an invalid.  Now, all this can be done,
darling, if you will only have faith in me.  Marry me now secretly, before you go back to Waltham.
No one need know.  And then the governor can be talked around in time.  My allowance will be
ample to give you and your mother all you need.  Can't you see, darling?"

The color faded from her cheeks.  She looked at him with eyes as startled as a surprised fawn.

"O, Lennox, I would be afraid to do that."

"You would not be afraid, Anna, if you loved me."

It was so tempting to the weary young soul, who had already begun to sink under the accumulated
burdens of the past year, not for herself, but for the sick mother, who complained unceasingly
of the changed conditions of their lives.  The care and attention would mean so much to her--and
yet, what right had she to encourage this man to go against the wishes of his father, to take
advantage of his love for her?  But she was grateful to him, and there was a wealth of tenderness
in the eyes that she turned toward him.

"No, Lennox, I appreciate your generosity, but I do not think it would be wise for either of us."

"Don't talk to me of generosity.  Good God, Anna, can't you realize what this separation means
to me?  I have no heart to go on with my life away from you.  If you are going to throw me
over, I shall cut college and go away."

She loved him all the better for his impatience.

"Anna," he said--the two dark heads were close together, the madness of the impulse was too
much for both.  Their lips met in a first long kiss.  The man was to have his way.  The kiss
proved a more eloquent argument than all his pleading.

"Say you will, Anna."

"Yes," she whispered.

And then they heard the street door open and close, and the voices of Mrs. Tremont and her
daughter, as they made their way to the library. And the two young souls, who hovered on the
brink of heaven, were obliged to listen to the latest gossip of fashionable Boston.

CHAPTER III.

CONTAINING SOME REFLECTIONS AND THE ENTRANCE OF MEPHISTOPHELES.

  "Not all that heralds rake from coffin'd clay,
  Nor florid prose, nor horrid lies of rhyme,
  Can blazon evil deeds, or consecrate a crime."--Byron.

Lennox Sanderson was stretched in his window-seat with a book, of which, however, he knew nothing--not
even the title--his mind being occupied by other thoughts than reading at that particular time.

Did he dare do it?  The audacity of the proceeding was sufficient to make the iron will of
even Lennox Sanderson waver.  And yet, to lose her!  Such a contingency was not to be considered.
His mind flew backward and forward like a shuttle, he turned the leaves of his book; he smoked,
but no light came from within or without.

He glanced about the familiar objects in his sitting-room as one unconsciously does when the
mind is on the rack of anxiety, as if to seek council from the mute things that make up so
large a part of our daily lives.

It was an ideal sitting-room for a college student, the luxury of the appointments absolutely
subservient to taste and simplicity.  Heavy red curtains divided the sitting-room from the
bedroom beyond, and imparted a degree of genial warmth to the atmosphere.  Russian candlesticks
of highly polished brass stood about on the mantel-piece and book shelves. Above the high oak
wainscoting the walls were covered with dark red paper, against which background brown photographs
of famous paintings showed to excellent advantage.  They were reproductions of Botticelli,
Rembrant, Franz Hals and Velasquez hung with artistic irregularity. Above the mantel-piece
were curious old weapons, swords, matchetes, flintlocks and carbines.  A helmet and breastplate
filled the space between the two windows.  Some dozen or more of pipe racks held the young
collegian's famous collection of pipes that told the history of smoking from the introduction
during the reign of Elizabeth, down to the present day.

In taking a mental inventory of his household goods, Sanderson's eyes fell on the photograph
of a woman on the mantel-piece.  He frowned. What right had she there, when his mind was full
of another?  He walked over to the picture and threw it into the fire.  It was not the first
picture to know a similar fate after occupying that place of honor.

The blackened edges of the picture were whirling up the chimney, when Sanderson's attention
was arrested by a knock.

"Come in," he called, and a young man of about his own age entered. Without being in the least
ill-looking, there was something repellent about the new comer.  His eyes were shifty and too
close together to be trustworthy.  Otherwise no fault could be found with his appearance.

"Well, Langdon, how are you?" his host asked, but there was no warmth in his greeting.

"As well as a poor devil like me ever is," began Langdon obsequiously. He sighed, looked about
the comfortable room and finished with: "Lucky dog."

Sanderson stood on no ceremony with his guest, who was a thoroughly unscrupulous young man.
Once or twice Langdon had helped Sanderson out of scrapes that would have sent him home from
college without his degree, had they come to the ears of the faculty.  In return for this assistance,
Sanderson had lent him large sums of money, which the owner entertained no hopes of recovering.
Sanderson tried to balance matters by treating Langdon with scant ceremony when they were alone.

"Well, old man," began his host, "I do not flatter myself that I owe this call to any personal
charm.  You dropped in to ease a little financial embarrassment by the request of a loan--am
I not right?"

"Right, as usual, Sandy, though I'd hardly call it a loan.  You know I was put to a devil of
a lot of trouble about that Newton affair, and it cost money to secure a shut mouth."

Sanderson frowned.  "This is the fifth time I have had the pleasure of settling for that Newton
affair, Langdon.  It seems to have become a sort of continuous performance."

Langdon winced.

"I'll tell you what I'll do, Langdon.  You owe me two thousand now, not counting that poker
debt.  We'll call it square if you'll attend to a little matter for me and I'll give you an
extra thou. to make it worth your while."

"You know I am always delighted to help you, Sandy."

"When I make it worth your while."

"Put it that way if you wish."

"Do you think that for once in your life you could look less like the devil than you are naturally,
and act the role of parson?"

"I might if I associate with you long enough.  Saintly company might change my expression."

"You won't have time to try.  You've got to have your clerical look in good working order by
Friday.  Incidently you are to marry me to the prettiest girl in Massachusetts and keep your
mouth closed."

As if to end the discussion, Sanderson strode over to his desk and wrote out a check for a
thousand dollars.  He came back, waving it in the air to dry the ink.

"Perhaps you will condescend to explain," Langdon said, as he pocketed the check.

"Explanations are always bores, my dear boy.  There is a little girl who feels obliged to insist
on formalities, not too many.  She'll think your acting as the parson the best joke in the
world, but it would not do to chaff her about it."

"Oh, I see," and Langdon's laugh was not pleasant.

"Exactly.  You will have everything ready--white choker, black coat and all the rest of it,
and now, my dear boy, you've got to excuse me as I've got a lot of work on hand."

They shook hands and Langdon's footsteps were soon echoing down the corridor.

The foul insinuation that Sanderson had just made about Anna rankled in his mind.  He went
to the sideboard and poured himself out a good stiff drink.  After that, his conscience did
not trouble him.

The work on account of which he excused himself from Langdon's society, was apparently not
of the most pressing order, for Sanderson almost immediately started for Boston, turning his
steps towards Mrs. Standish Tremont's.

"Mrs. Tremont was not at home," the man announced at the door, "and Mrs. Endicott was confined
to her room with a bad headache.  Should he take his card to Miss Moore?"

Sanderson assented, feeling that fate was with him.

"My darling," he said, as Anna came in a moment later, and folded her close in a long embrace.
She was paler than when he had last seen her and there were dark rings under her eyes that
hinted at long night vigils.

"Lennox," she said, "do not think me weak, but I am terribly frightened.  It does not seem
as if we were doing the right thing by our friends."

"Goosey girl," he said, kissing her, "who was it that said no marriage ever suited all parties
unconcerned?"

She laughed.  "I am thinking more of you Lennox, than of myself. Suppose your father should
not forgive you, cut you off without a cent, and you should have to drudge all your life with
mother and me on your hands!  Don't you think you would wish we had never met, or, at least,
that I had thought of these things?"

"Suppose the sky should fall, or the sun should go out, or that I could stop loving you, or
any of the impossible things that could not happen once in a million years.  Aren't you ashamed
of yourself to doubt me in this way?  Answer me, miss," he said with mock ferocity.

For answer she laid her cheek against his.--"I am so happy, dear, that I am almost afraid."

He pressed her tenderly.  "And now, darling, for the conspiracy--Cupid's conspiracy.  You write
to your mother to-night and say that you will be home on Wednesday because you will.  Then
tell Mrs. Tremont that you have had a wire from her saying you must go home Friday (I'll see
that you do receive such a telegram), and leave Friday morning by the 9:40.  I will keep out
of the way, because the entire Tremont contingent will doubtless see you off.  I will then
meet you at one of the stations near Boston.  I can't tell you which, till I hear from my friend,
the Reverend John Langdon.  He will have everything arranged."

She looked at him with dilating eyes, her cheeks blanched with fear.

"Anna," he said, almost roughly, "if you have no confidence in me, I will go out of your life
forever."

"Yes, yes, I believe in you," she said.  "It isn't that, but it is the first thing I have ever
kept from mother, and I would feel so much more comfortable if she knew."

"Baby.  An' so de ittle baby must tell its muvver ev'yting," he mimicked her, till she felt
ashamed of her good impulse--an impulse which if she had yielded to, it would have saved her
from all the bitterness she was to know.

"And so you will do as I ask you, darling?"

"Yes."

"Do you promise?"

"Yes," and they sealed the bargain with a kiss.

"Dearest, I must be going.  It would never do for Mrs. Tremont to see us together.  I should
forget and call you pet names, and then you would be sent supperless to bed, like the little
girls in the story books."

"I suppose you must go," she said, regretfully.

"It will not be for long," and with another kiss he left her.

CHAPTER IV.

THE MOCK MARRIAGE.

  "Thus grief still treads upon the heel of pleasure,
  Married in haste, we may repent at leisure."--Congreve.

It seemed to Anna when Friday came, that human experience had nothing further to offer in the
way of mental anguish and suspense.  She had thrashed out the question of her secret marriage
to Sanderson till her brain refused to work further, and there was in her mind only dread and
a haunting sense of loss.  If she had only herself to consider, she would not have hesitated
a moment.  But Sanderson, his father, and her own mother were all involved.

Was she doing right by her mother?  At times, the advantage to the invalid accruing from this
marriage seemed manifold.  Again it seemed to Anna but a senseless piece of folly, prompted
by her own selfish love for Sanderson.  And so the days wore on until the eventful Friday came,
and Anna said good-bye to Mrs. Standish Tremont with livid cheeks and tearful eyes.

"And do you feel so badly about going away, my dear?" said the great lady, looking at those
visible signs of distress and feeling not a little flattered by her young cousin's show of
affection.  "We must have you down soon again," and she patted Anna's cheek and hurried her
into the car, for Mrs. Tremont had a horror of scenes and signals warned her that Anna was
on the verge of tears.

The locomotive whistled, the cars gave a jolt, and Anna Moore was launched on her tragic fate.
She never knew how the time passed after leaving Mrs. Tremont, till Sanderson joined her at
the next station. She felt as if her will power had deserted her, and she was dumbly obeying
the behests of some unseen relentless force.  She looked at the strange faces about her, hopelessly.
Perhaps it was not too late---perhaps some kind motherly woman would tell her if she were doing
right.  But they all looked so strange and forbidding, and while she turned the question over
and over in her mind, the car stopped, the brakeman called the station and Lennox Sanderson got on.

She turned to him in her utter perplexity, forgetting he was the cause of it.

"My darling, how pale you are.  Are you ill?"

"Not ill, but----"  He would not let her finish, but reassured her by the tenderest of looks,
the warmest of hand clasps, and the terrified girl began to lose the hunted feeling that she had.

They rode on for fully an hour.  Sanderson was perfectly self-possessed.  He might have been
married every day in the year, for any difference it made in his demeanor.  He was perfectly
composed, laughed and chatted as wittily as ever.  In time, Anna partook of his mood and laughed
back.  She felt as if a weight had been lifted off her mind.  At last they stopped at a little
station called Whiteford.  An old-fashioned carriage was waiting for them; they entered it
and the driver, whipped up his horses.  A drive of a half mile brought them to an ideal white
cottage surrounded by porches and hidden in a tangle of vines.  The door was opened for them
by the Rev. John Langdon in person. He seemed a preternaturally grave young man to Anna and
his clerical attire was above reproach.  Any misgivings one might have had regarding him on
the score of his youth, were more than counterbalanced by his almost supernatural gravity.

He apologized for the absence of his wife, saying she had been called away suddenly, owing
to the illness of her mother.  His housekeeper and gardener would act as witnesses.  Sanderson
hastily took Anna to one side and said: "I forgot to tell you, darling, that I am going to
be married by my two first names only, George Lennox.  It is just the same, but if the Sanderson
got into any of those country marriage license papers, I should be afraid the governor would
hear of it--penalty of having a great name, you know," he concluded gayly. "Thought I had better
mention it, as it would not do to have you surprised over your husband's name."

Again the feeling of dread completely over-powered her.  She looked at him with her great sorrowful
eyes, as a trapped animal will sometimes look at its captor, but she could not speak.  Some
terrible blight seemed to have overgrown her brain, depriving her of speech and willpower.

The witnesses entered.  Anna was too agitated to notice that the Rev. John Langdon's housekeeper
was a very singular looking young woman for her position.  Her hair was conspicuously dark
at the roots and conspicuously light on the ends.  Her face was hard and when she smiled her
mouth, assumed a wolfish expression.  She was loudly dressed and wore a profusion of jewelry--altogether
a most remarkable looking woman for the place she occupied.

The gardener had the appearance of having been suddenly wakened before nature had had her full
quota of sleep.  He was blear-eyed and his breath was more redolent of liquor than one might
have expected in the gardener of a parsonage.

The room in which the ceremony was to take place was the ordinary cottage parlor, with crochet
work on the chairs, and a profusion of vases and bric-a-brac on the tables.  The Rev. John
Langdon requested Anna and Sanderson to stand by a little marble table from which the housekeeper
brushed a profusion of knick-knacks.  There was no Bible. Anna was the first to notice the
omission.  This seemed to deprive the young clergyman of his dignity.  He looked confused,
blushed, and turning to the housekeeper told her to fetch the Bible.  This seemed to appeal
to the housekeeper's sense of humor.  She burst out laughing and said something about looking
for a needle in a haystack.  Sanderson turned on her furiously, and she left the room, looking
sour, and muttering indignantly.  She returned, after what seemed an interminable space of
time, and the ceremony proceeded.

Anna did not recognize her own voice as she answered the responses. Sanderson's was clear and
ringing; his tones never faltered.  When the time came to put the ring on her finger, Anna's
hand trembled so violently that the ring fell to the floor and rolled away.  Sanderson's face
turned pale.  It seemed to him like a providential dispensation. For some minutes, the assembled
company joined in the hunt for the ring.  It was found at length by the yellow-haired housekeeper,
who returned it with her most wolfish grin.

"Trust Bertha Harris to find things!" said the clergyman.

The ceremony proceeded without further incident.  The final words were pronounced and Anna
sank into a chair, relieved that it was over, whether it was for better or for worse.

Sanderson hurried her into the carriage before the clergyman and the witnesses could offer
their congratulations.  He pulled her away from the yellow-haired housekeeper, who would have
smothered her in an embrace, and they departed without the customary handshake from the officiating
clergyman.

"You were not very cordial, dear," she said, as they rolled along through the early winter
landscape.

"Confound them all.  I hated to see them near you"--and then, in answer to her questioning
gaze--"because I love you so much, darling.  I hate to see anyone touch you."

The trees were bare; the fields stretched away brown and flat, like the folds of a shroud,
and the sun was veiled by lowering clouds of gray. It was not a cheerful day for a wedding.

"Lennox, did you remember that this is Friday?  And I have on a black dress."

"And now that Mrs. Lennox has settled the question of to wed or not to wed, by wedding--behold,
she is worrying herself about her frock and the color of it, and the day of the week and everything
else.  Was there ever such a dear little goose?"  He pinched her cheek, and she--she smiled
up at him, her fears allayed.

"And why don't you ask where we are going, least curious of women?"

"I forgot; indeed I did."

"We are going to the White Rose Inn.  Ideal name for a place in which to spend one's honeymoon,
isn't it?"

"Any place would be ideal with you Lennie," and she slipped her little hand into his ruggeder palm.

At last the White Rose Inn was sighted; it was one of those modern hostelries, built on an
old English model.  The windows were muslined, the rooms were wainscoted in oak, the furniture
was heavy and cumbersome.  Anna was delighted with everything she saw.  Sanderson had had their
sitting-room filled with crimson roses, they were everywhere; banked on the mantelpiece, on
the tables and window-sills.  Their perfume was to Anna like the loving embrace of an old friend.
Jacqueminots had been so closely associated with her acquaintance with Sanderson, in after
years she could never endure their perfume and their scarlet petals unnerved her, as the sight
of blood does some women.

A trim English maid came to assist "Mrs. Lennox," to unpack her things. Lunch was waiting in
the sitting-room.  Sanderson gave minute orders about the icing of his own particular brand
of champagne, which he had had sent from Boston.

Anna had recovered her good spirits.  It seemed "such a jolly lark," as her husband said.

"Sweetheart, your happiness," he said, and raised his glass to hers. Her eyes sparkled like
the champagne.  The honeymoon at the White Rose Tavern had begun very merrily.

CHAPTER V.

A LITTLE GLIMPSE OF THE GARDEN OF EDEN.

"My dear, will you kindly pour me a second cup of coffee?  Not because I really want it, you
know, but entirely for the aesthetic pleasure of seeing your pretty little hands pattering
about the cups."

Lennox Sanderson, in a crimson velvet smoking jacket, was regarding Anna with the most undisguised
admiration from the other side of the round table, that held their breakfast,--their first
honeymoon breakfast, as Anna supposed it to be.

"Anything to please my husband," she answered with a flitting blush.

"Your husband?  Ah, say it again; it sounds awfully good from you."

"So you don't really care for any more coffee, but just want to see my hands among the cups.
How appreciative you are!"  And there was a mischievous twinkle in her eye as she began with
great elaboration the pantomimic representation of pouring a cup of coffee, adding sugar and
cream; and concluded by handing the empty cup to Sanderson.  "It would be such a pity to waste
the coffee, Lennie, when you only wanted to see my hands."

"If I am not going to have the coffee, I insist on both the hands," he said, taking them and
kissing them repeatedly.

"I suppose I'll have to give it to you on those terms," and she proceeded to fill the cup in
earnest this time.

"Let me see.  How is it that you like it?  One lump of sugar and quite a bit of cream?  And
tea perfectly clear with nothing at all and toast very crisp and dry.  Dear me, how do women
ever remember all their husband's likes and dislikes?  It's worse than learning a new multiplication
table over again," and the most adorable pucker contracted her pretty brows.

"And yet, see how beautifully widows manage it, even taking the thirty-third degree and here
you are, complaining before you are initiated, and kindly remember, Mrs. Lennox Sanderson,
if I take but one lump of sugar in my coffee, there are other ways of sweetening it." Presumably
he got it sweetened to his satisfaction, for the proprietor of the "White Rose," who attended
personally to the wants of "Mr. and Mrs. Lennox" had to cough three times before he found it
discreet to enter and inquire if everything was satisfactory.

He bowed three times like a disjointed foot rule and then retired to charge up the wear and
tear to his backbone under the head of "special attendance."

"H-m-m!" sighed Sanderson, as the door closed on the bowing form of the proprietor, "that fellow's
presence reminds me that we are not absolutely alone in the world, and you had almost convinced
me that we were, darling, and that by special Providence, this grim old earth had been turned
into a second Garden of Eden for our benefit.  Aren't you going to kiss me and make me forget
in earnest, this time?"

"I'm sure, Lennie, I infinitely prefer the 'White Rose Inn' with you, to the Garden of Paradise
with Adam."  She not only granted the request, but added an extra one for interest.

"You'll make me horribly vain, Anna, if you persist in preferring me to Adam; but then I dare
say, Eve would have preferred him and Paradise to me and the 'White Rose.'"

"But, then, Eve's taste lacked discrimination.  She had to take Adam or become the first girl
bachelor.  With me there might have been alternatives."

"There might have been others, to speak vulgarly?"

"Exactly."

"By Jove, Anna, I don't see how you ever did come to care for me!"  The laughter died out of
his eyes, his face grew prefer naturally grave, he strode over to the window and looked out
on the desolate landscape. For the first time he realized the gravity of his offense.  His
crime against this girl, who had been guilty of nothing but loving him too deeply stood out,
stripped of its trappings of sentiment, in all its foul selfishness.  He would right the wrong,
confess to her; but no, he dare not, she was not the kind of woman to condone such an offense.

"Needles and pins, needles and pins, when a man's married his trouble begins," quoted Anna
gayly, slipping up behind him and, putting her arms about his neck; "one would think the old
nursery ballad was true, to look at you, Lennox Sanderson.  I never saw such a married-man
expression before in my life.  You wanted to know why I fell in love with you.  I could not
help it, because you are YOU."

She nestled her head in his shoulder and he forgot his scruples in the sorcery of her presence.

"Darling," he said; taking her in his arms, with perhaps the most genuine affection he ever
felt for her, "I wish we could spend our lives here in this quiet little place, and that there
were no troublesome relations or outside world demanding us."

"So do I, dear," she answered, "but it could not last; we are too perfectly happy."

Neither spoke for some minutes.  At that time he loved her as deeply as it was possible for
him to love anyone.  Again the impulse came to tell her, beg for forgiveness and make reparation.
He was holding her in his arms, considering.  A moment more, and he would have given way to
the only unselfish impulse in his life.  But again the knock, followed by the discreet cough
of the proprietor.  And when he entered to tell them that the horses were ready for their drive,
"Mrs. Lennox" hastened to put on her jacket and "Mr. Lennox" thanked his stars that he had
not spoken.

CHAPTER VI.

THE WAYS OF DESOLATION.

  "Oh! colder than the wind that freezes
  Founts, that but now in sunshine play'd,
  Is that congealing pang which seizes
  The trusting bosom when betray'd."--Moore.

Four months had elapsed since the honeymoon at the White Rose Tavern, and Anna was living at
Waltham with her mother who grew more fretful and complaining every day.  The marriage was
still the secret of Anna and Sanderson.  The honeymoon at the White Rose had been prolonged
to a week, but no suspicion had entered the minds of Mrs. Moore or Mrs. Standish Tremont, thanks
to Sanderson's skill in sending fictitious telegrams, aided by so skilled an accomplice as
the "Rev." John Langdon.

Week after week, Anna had yielded to Sanderson's entreaties and kept her marriage a secret
from her mother.  At first he had sent her remittances of money with frequent regularity, but,
lately, they had begun to fall off, his letters were less frequent, shorter and more reserved
in tone, and the burden of it all was crushing the youth out of the girl and breaking her spirit.
She had grown to look like some great sorrowful-eyed Madonna, and her beauty had in it more
of the spiritual quality of an angel than of a woman.  As the spring came on, and the days
grew longer she looked like one on whom the hand of death had been laid.

Her friends noticed this, but not her mother, who was so engrossed with her own privations,
that she had no time or inclination for anything else.

"Anna, Anna, to think of our coming to this!" she would wail a dozen times a day--or, "Anna,
I can't stand it another minute," and she would burst into paroxysms of grief, from which nothing
could arouse her, and utterly exhausted by her own emotions, which were chiefly regret and
self-pity, she would sink off to sleep.  Anna had no difficulty in accounting to her mother
for the extra comforts with which Lennox Sanderson's money supplied them.  Mrs. Standish Tremont
sometimes sent checks and Mrs. Moore never bothered about the source, so long as the luxuries
were forthcoming.

"Is there no more Kumyss, Anna?" she asked one day.

"No, mother."

"Then why did you neglect to order it?"

The girl's face grew red.  "There was no money to pay for it, mother. I am so sorry."

"And does Frances Tremont neglect us in this way?  When we were both girls, it was quite the
other way.  My father practically adopted Frances Tremont.  She was married from our house.
But you see, Anna, she made a better marriage than I.  Oh, why was your father so reckless?
I warned him not to speculate in the rash way he was accustomed to doing, but he would never
take my advice.  If he had, we would not be as we are now."  And again the poor lady was overcome
with her own sorrows.

It was not Mrs. Tremont's check that had bought the last Kumyss.  In fact, Mrs. Tremont, after
the manner of rich relations, troubled her head but little about her poor ones.  Sanderson
had sent no money for nearly a month, and Anna would have died sooner than have asked for it.
He had been to Waltham twice to see Anna, and once she had gone to meet him at the White Rose
Tavern.  Mrs. Moore, wrapped in gloom at the loss of her own luxury, had no interest in the
young man who came down from Boston to call on her daughter.

"You met him at Cousin Frances's, did you say?  I don't see how you can ask him here to this
abominable little house.  A girl should have good surroundings, Anna.  Nothing detracts from
a girl's beauty so much as cheap surroundings.  Oh, my dear, if you had only been settled in
life before all this happened, I would not complain."  And, as usual, there were more tears.

But the wailings of her mother, over departed luxuries, and the poverty of her surroundings
were the lightest of Anna's griefs.  At their last meeting--she had gone to him in response
to his request--Sanderson's manner had struck dumb terror into the heart of the girl who had
sacrificed so much at his bidding.  She had been very pale.  The strain of facing the terrible
position in which she found herself, coupled with her own failing health, had robbed her of
the beautiful color he had always so frankly admired.  Her eyes were big and hollow looking,
and the deep black circles about them only added to her unearthly appearance.  There were drawn
lines of pain about the mouth, that robbed the Cupid's bow of half its beauty.

"My God, Anna!" he had said to her impatiently.  "A man might as well try to love a corpse
as a woman who looks like that."  He led her over to a mirror, that she might see her wasted
charms.  There was no need for her to look.  She knew well enough, what was reflected there.

"You have no right to let yourself get like this.  The only thing a woman has is her looks,
and it is a crime if she throws them away worrying and fretting."

"But Lennox," she answered, desperately, "I have told you how matters stand with me, and mother
knows nothing--suspects nothing."  And the girl broke down and wept as if her heart would break.

"Anna, for Heaven's sake, do stop crying.  I hate a scene worse than anything in the world.
When a woman cries, it means but one thing, and that is that the man must give in--and in this
particular instance I can't give in.  It would ruin me with the governor to acknowledge our
marriage."

The girl's tears froze at his brutal words.  She looked about dazed and hopeless.

Sanderson was standing by the window, drumming a tattoo on the pane. He wheeled about, and
said slowly, as if he were feeling his way:

"Anna, suppose I give you a sum of money and you go away till all this business is over.  You
can tell your mother or not; just as you see fit.  As far as I am concerned, it would be impossible
for me to acknowledge our marriage as I have said before.  If the governor found it out, he
would cut me off without a cent."

"But, Lennox, I cannot leave my mother.  Her health grows worse daily, and it would kill her."

"Then take her with you.  She's got to know, sooner or later, I suppose.  Now, don't be a stupid
little girl, and everything will turn out well for us."  He patted her cheek, but it was done
perfunctorily, and Anna knew there was no use in making a further appeal to him.

"Well, my dear," he said, "I have got to take that 4.30 train back to Cambridge.  Here is something
for you, and let me know just as soon as you make up your mind, when you intend to go and where.
There is no use in your staying in Waltham till those old cats begin to talk."

He put a roll of bills in her hand, kissed her and was gone, and Anna turned her tottering
steps homeward, sick at heart.  She must tell her mother, and the shock of it might kill her.
She pressed her hands over her burning eyes to blot out the hideous picture.  Could cruel fate
offer bitterer dregs to young lips?

She stopped at the postoffice for mail.  There was nothing but the daily paper.  She took it
mechanically and turned into the little side street on which they lived.

The old family servant, who still lived with them, met her at the door, and told her that her
mother had been sleeping quietly for more than an hour.

"Good gracious, Miss Anna, but you do look ill.  Just step into the parlor and sit down for
a minute, and I'll make you a cup of tea."

Anna suffered herself to be led into the little room, smiling gratefully at the old servant
as she assisted her to remove her hat and jacket.  She took up the paper mechanically and glanced
through its contents.  Her eyes fell on the following item, which she followed with hypnotic
interest: "Harvard Student in Disgrace!" was the headline.

"John Langdon, a Harvard student, was arrested on the complaint of Bertha Harris, a young woman,
well known in Boston's gas-light circles, yesterday evening.  They had been dining together
at a well-known chop house, when the woman, who appeared to be slightly under the influence
of liquor, suddenly arose and declared that Langdon was trying to rob her.

"Both were arrested on the charge of creating a disturbance.  At the State Street Police Station
the woman said that Langdon had performed a mock marriage for a fellow student some four months
ago.  She had acted as a witness, for which service she was to receive $50.  The money had
never been paid.  She stated further that the young man, whom Langdon is alleged to have married,
is the son of a wealthy Boston banker, and the young woman who was thus deceived is a young
relative of one of Boston's social leaders.

"Later Bertha Harris withdrew her charges, saying she was intoxicated when she made them. 
The affair has created a profound sensation."

"Mock marriage!"  The words whirled before the girl's eyes in letters of fire.  Bertha Harris!
Yes, that was the name.  It had struck her at the time when Sanderson dropped the ring.  Langdon
had said "Bertha Harris has found it."

The light of her reason seemed to be going out.  From the blackness that engulfed her, the
words "mock marriage" rang in her ear like the cry of the drowning.

"God, oh God!" she called and the pent up agony of her wrecked life was in the cry.

They found her senseless a moment later, staring up at the ceiling with glassy eyes, the crumpled
paper crushed in her hand.

"She is dead," wailed her mother.  The old servant wasted no time in words.  She lifted up
the fragile form and laid it tenderly on the bed. Then she raised the window and called to
the first passerby to run for the nearest doctor.

CHAPTER VII.

MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.

It took all the medical skill of which the doctor was capable, and the best part of twenty-four
hours of hard work to rouse Anna from the death-like lethargy into which she had fallen.  Toward
morning she opened her eyes and turning to her mother, said appealingly:

"Mother, you believe I am innocent, don't you?"

"Certainly, darling," Mrs. Moore replied, without knowing in the least to what her daughter
referred.  The doctor, who was present at the time, turned away.  He knew more than the mother.
It was one of those tragedies of everyday life that meant for the woman the fleeing away from
old associations, like a guilty thing, long months of hiding, the facing of death; and, if
death was not to be, the beginning of life over again branded with shame.  And all this bitter
injustice because she had loved much and had faith in the man she loved.  The doctor had faced
tragedies before in his professional life, but never had he felt his duty so heavily laid upon
him as when he begged Mrs. Moore for a few minutes' private conversation in the gray dawn of
that early morning.

He felt that the life of his patient depended on his preparing her mother for the worst.  The
girl, he knew, would probably confess all during her convalescence, and the mother must be
prepared, so that the first burst of anguish would have expended itself before the girl should
have a chance to pour out the story of her misfortune.

"Tell me, doctor, is she going to die?" the mother asked, as she closed the door of the little
sitting-room and they were alone.  The poor lady had not thought of her own misfortunes since
Anna's illness.  The selfishness of the woman of the world was completely obliterated by the
anxiety of the mother.

"No, she will not die, Mrs. Moore; that is, if you are able to control your feelings sufficiently,
after I have made a most distressing disclosure, to give her the love and sympathy that only
you can."

She looked at him with troubled eyes.  "Why, doctor, what do you mean? My daughter has always
had my love and sympathy, and if of late I have appeared somewhat engrossed by my own troubles,
I assure you my daughter is not likely to suffer from it during her illness."

"Her life depends on how you receive what I am going to tell you. Should you upbraid her with
her misfortune, or fail to stand by her as only a mother can, I shall not answer for the consequences."
Then he told her Anna's secret.

The stricken woman did not cry out in her anguish, nor swoon away.  She raised a feebly protesting
hand, as if to ward off a cruel blow; then burying her face in her arms, she cowed before him.
Not a sob shook the frail, wasted figure.  It was as if this most terrible misfortune had dried
up the well-springs of grief and robbed her of the blessed gift of tears.  The woman who in
one brief year had lost everything that life held dear to her--husband, home, wealth, position--everything
but this one child, could not believe the terrible sentence that had been pronounced against
her.  Her Anna--her little girl!  Why, she was only a child!  Oh, no, it could not be true.
She never, never would believe it.

Her brain whirled and seemed to stop.  It refused to grasp so hideous a proposition.  The doctor
was momentarily at a loss to know how to deal with this terrible dry-eyed grief.  The set look
in her eyes, the terrible calm of her demeanor were so much more alarming than the wildest
outpourings of grief would, have been.

"And this seizure, Mrs. Moore.  Tell me exactly how it was brought about," thinking to turn
the current of her thoughts even for a moment.

She told him how Anna had gone out in the early afternoon, without saying where she was going,
and how she had returned to the house about five o'clock, looking so pale and ill, that Hannah,
an old family servant who still lived with them, noticed it and begged her to sit down while
she went to fetch her a cup of tea.  The maid left her sitting by the fire-place reading a
paper, and the next thing was the terrible cry that brought them both.  They found her lying
on the floor unconscious with the crumpled newspaper in her hand.

"See, here is the paper now, doctor," and he stooped to pick up the crumpled sheet from which
the girl had read her death warrant. Together they went over it in the hope that it might furnish
some clue. Mrs. Moore's eyes were the first to fall on the fatal paragraph.  She read it through,
then showed it to the doctor.

"That is undoubtedly the cause of the seizure," said the doctor.

"Oh, my poor, poor darling," moaned the mother, and the first tears fell.

In the first bitterness of regret, Mrs. Moore imagined that in selfishly abandoning herself
to her own grief, she must have neglected her daughter, and her remorse knew no bounds.  Again
and again she bitterly denounced herself for giving way to sorrow that now seemed light and
trivial, compared to the black hopelessness of the present.

Anna's mind wandered in her delirium, and she would talk of her marriage and beg Sanderson
to let her tell her mother all.  Then she would fancy that she was again with Mrs. Tremont
and she would go through the pros and cons of the whole affair.  Should she marry him secretly,
as he wished?  Yes, it would be better for poor mama, who needed so many comforts, but was
it right?  And then the passionate appeal to Sanderson.  Couldn't he realize her position?----

"Yes, darling, it is all right.  Mother understands," the heartbroken woman would repeat over
and over again, but the sick girl could not hear.

And so the days wore on, till at last Anna's wandering mind turned back to earth, and again
took up the burden of living.  There was nothing for her to tell her mother.  In her delirium
she had told all, and the mother was prepared to bravely face the worst for her daughter's sake.

The terrible blow brought mother and daughter closer together than they had been for years.
In their prosperity, the young girl had been busy with her governess and instructors, while
her mother had made a fine art of her invalidism and spent the greater part of her time at
health resorts, baths and spas.

By mutual consent, they decided that it was better not to attempt to seek redress from Sanderson.
Anna's letters, written during her convalescence, had remained unanswered, and any effort to
force him, either by persuasion or process of law, to right the terrible wrong he had done,
was equally repulsive to both mother and daughter.

Mrs. Standish Tremont was also equally out of the question, as a court of final appeal.  She
had been so piqued with Anna for interfering with her most cherished plans regarding Sanderson
and Grace Tremont, that Anna knew well enough that there would only be further humiliation
in seeking mercy from that quarter.

So mother and daughter prepared to face the inevitable alone.  To this end, Mrs. Moore sold
the last of her jewelry.  She had kept it, thinking that Anna would perhaps marry some day
and appreciate the heirlooms; but such a contingent was no longer to be considered, and the
jewelry, and the last of the family silver, were sent to be sold, together with every bit of
furniture with which they could dispense, and mother and daughter left the little cottage in
Waltham, and went to the town of Belden, New Hampshire,--a place so inconceivably remote, that
there was little chance of any of their former friends being able to trace them, even if they
should desire to do so.

As the summer days grew shorter, and the hour of Anna's ordeal grew near, Mrs. Moore had but
one prayer in her heart, and that was that her life might be spared till her child's troubles
were over.  Since Anna's illness in the early spring, she had utterly disregarded herself.
No complaint was heard to pass her lips.  Her time was spent in one unselfish effort to make
her daughter's life less painful.  But the strain of it was telling, and she knew that life
with her was but the question of weeks, perhaps days.  As her physical grasp grew weaker, her
mental hold increased proportionately, and she determined to live till she had either closed
her child's eyes in death, or left her with something for which to struggle, as she herself
was now struggling.

But the poor mother's last wish was not to be granted.  In the beginning of September, just
when the earth was full of golden promise of autumn, she felt herself going.  She felt the
icy hand of death at her heart and the grim destroyer whispered in her ear: "Make ready." Oh,
the anguish of going just then, when she was needed so sorely by her deceived and deserted child.

"Anna, darling," she called feebly, "I cannot be with you; I am going--I have prayed to stay,
but it was not to be.  Your child will comfort you, darling.  There is nothing like a child's
love, Anna, to make a woman forget old sorrows--kiss me, dear----"  She was gone.

And so Anna was to go down into the valley of the shadow of death alone, and among strangers.

CHAPTER VIII.

IN DAYS OF WAITING.

The days of Anna's waiting lagged.  She lost all count of time and season.  Each day was painfully
like its predecessor, a period of time to be gone through with, as best she could.  She realized
after her mother's death what the gentle companionship had been to her, what a prop the frail
mother had become in her hour of need.  For a great change had come over the querulous invalid
with the beginning of her daughter's troubles, the grievances of the woman of the world were
forgotten in the anxiety of the mother, and never by look or word did she chide her daughter,
or make her affliction anything but easier to bear by her gentle presence.

Anna, sunk in the stupor of her own grief, did not realize the comfort of her mother's presence
until it was too late.  She shrank from the strangers with whom they made their little home--a
middle aged shopkeeper and his wife, who had been glad enough to rent them two unused rooms
in their house at a low figure.  They were not lacking in sympathy for young "Mrs. Lennox,"
but their disposition to ask questions made Anna shun them as she would have an infection.
After her mother's death, they tried harder than ever to be kind to her, but the listless girl,
who spent her days gazing at nothing, was hardly aware of their comings and goings.

"If you would only try to eat a bit, my dear," said the corpulent Mrs. Smith, bustling into
Anna's room.  "And land sakes, don't take on so. There you set in that chair all day long.
Just rouse yourself, my dear; there ain't no trouble, however bad, but could be wuss."

To this dismal philosophy, Anna would return a wan smile, while she felt her heart almost break
within her.

"And, Mrs. Lennox, don't mind what I say to you.  I am old enough to be your grandmother, but
if you have quarreled with any one, don't be too spunky now about making up.  Spunk is all
right in its place, but its place ain't at the bedside of a young woman who's got to face the
trial of her life.  If you have quarreled with any one--your--your husband, say, now is the
time to make it up, since your ma is gone."

The old woman looked at her with a strange mixture of motherliness and curiosity.  As she said
to her husband a dozen times a day, "her heart just ached for that pore young thing upstairs,"
but this tender solicitude did not prevent her ears from aching, at the same time, to hear
Anna's story.

"Thank you very much for your kind interest, Mrs. Smith; but really, you must let me judge
of my own affairs."  There was a dignity about the girl that brooked no further interference.

"That's right, my dear, and I wouldn't have thought of suggesting it, but you do seem that
young--well, I must be going down to put the potatoes on for dinner.  If you want anything,
just ring your bell."

There was not the least resentment cherished by the corpulent Mrs. Smith.  The girl's answer
confirmed her opinion from the first.  "She would not send for her husband, because there wasn't
no husband to send for."  She mentioned her convictions to her husband and added she meant
to write to sister Eliza that very night.

"Sister Eliza has an uncommon light hand with babies and that pore young thing'll be hard pushed
to pay the doctor, let alone a nurse."

These essentially feminine details regarding the talents of Sister Eliza, did not especially
interest Smith, who continued his favorite occupation--or rather, joint occupations, of whittling
and expectorating.  Nevertheless, the letter to Sister Eliza was written, and not a minute
sooner than was necessary; for, the little soul that was to bring with it forgetfulness for
all the agony through which its mother had lived during that awful year, came very soon after
the arrival of Sister Eliza.

Anna had felt in those days of waiting that she could never again be happy; that for her "finis"
had been written by the fates.  But, as she lay with the dark-haired baby on her breast, she
found herself planning for the little girl's future; even happy in the building of those heavenly
air-castles that young mothers never weary of building.  She felt the necessity of growing
strong so that she could work early and late, for baby must have everything, even if mother
went without. Sometimes a fleeting likeness to Sanderson would flit across the child's face,
and a spasm of pain would clutch at Anna's heart, but she would forget it next moment in one
of baby's most heavenly smiles.

She could think of him now without a shudder; even a lingering remnant of tenderness would
flare up in her heart when she remembered he was the baby's father.  Perhaps he would see the
child sometime, and her sweet baby ways would plead to him more eloquently than could all her
words to right the wrong he had done, and so the days slipped by and the little mother was
happy, after the long drawn out days of waiting and misery.  She would sing the baby to sleep
in her low contralto voice, and feel that it mattered not whether the world smiled or frowned
on her, so long as baby approved.

But this blessed state of affairs was not long to continue.  Anna, as she grew stronger, felt
the necessity of seeking employment, but to this the baby proved a formidable obstacle.  No
one would give a young woman, hampered with a child, work.  She would come back to the baby
at night worn out in mind and body, after a day of fruitless searching. These long trips of
the little mother, with the consequent long absence and exhaustion on her return, did not improve
the little one's health, and almost before Anna realized it was ailing, the baby sickened and
died.  It was her cruelest blow.  For the child's sake she had taken up her interest in life,
made plans; and was ready to work her fingers to the bone, but it was not to be and with the
first falling of the clods on the little coffin, Anna felt the last ray of hope extinguished
from her heart.

CHAPTER IX.

ON THE THRESHOLD OF SHELTER.

  Alas!  To-day I would give everything
  To see a friend's face, or hear voice
  That had the slightest tone of comfort in it.--Longfellow.

About two miles from the town of Belden, N. H., stands an irregular farm house that looks more
like two dwellings forced to pass as one.  One part of it is all gables, and tile, and chimney
corners, and antiquity, and the other is square, slated, and of the newest cut, outside and in.

The farm is the property of Squire Amasa Bartlett, a good type of the big man of the small
place.  He was a contented and would have been a happy man--or at least thought he would have
been--if the dearest wish of his life could have been realized.  It was that his son, Dave,
and his wife's niece, Kate, should marry.  Kate was an orphan and the Squire's ward. She owned
the adjoining land, that was farmed with the Squire's as one. So that Cupid would not have
come to them empty handed; but the young people appeared to have little interest in each other
apart from that cousinly affection which young people who are brought together would in all
probability feel for each other.

Dave was a handsome, dark-eyed young man, whose silence passed with some for sulkiness; but
he was not sulky--only deep and thoughtful, and perhaps a little more devoid of levity than
becomes a young man of twenty-five.  He had great force of character--you might have seen that
from his grave brow, and felt it in his simple speech and manner, that was absolutely free
from affectation.

Dave was his mother's idol, but his utter lack of worldliness, his inability to drive a shrewd
bargain sometimes annoyed his father, who was a just, but an undeniably hard man, who demanded
a hundred cents for his dollar every day in the year.

Kate, whom the family circle hoped would one day be David's wife, was all blonde hair, blue
eyes and high spirits, so that the little blind god, aided by the Squire's strategy, propinquity
and the universal law of the attraction of opposites, should have had no difficulty in making
these young people fall in love--but Destiny, apparently, decided to make them exceptions to
all rules.

Kate was fond of going to Boston to visit a schoolmate, and the Squire, who looked with small
favor on these visits, was disposed to attribute them to Dave's lack of ardor.

"Confound it, Looizy," he would say to his wife, "if Dave made it more lively for Kate she
would not be fer flying off to Boston every time she got a chance."

And Mrs. Bartlett had no answer.  Having a woman's doubtful gift of intuition, she was afraid
that the wedding would never take place, and also having a woman's tact she never annoyed her
husband by saying so.

Kate, who had been in Boston for two months, was coming home about the middle of July, and
a little flutter of preparation went all over the farm.

Dave had said at breakfast that he regretted not being able to go to Wakefield to meet Kate,
but that he would be busy in the north field all day.  Hi Holler, the Bartlett chore boy, had
been commissioned to go in his stead, and Hi's toilet, in consequence, had occupied most of
the morning.

Mrs. Bartlett was churning in the shadow of the wide porch, the Squire was mending a horse
collar with wax thread, and fussing about the heat and the slowness of Hi Holler, who was always
punctually fifteen minutes late for everything.

"Confound it, Looizy, what's keeping that boy; the train'll get in before he's started.  Here
you, Hi, what's keeping you?"

The delinquent stood in the doorway, his broad face rippling with smiles; he had spent time
on his toilet, but he felt that the result justified it.

His high collar had already begun to succumb to the day, and the labor involved in greasing
his boots, which were much in evidence, owing to the brevity of the white duck trousers that
needed but one or two more washings, with the accompanying process of shrinking, to convert
them into knickerbockers.  Bear's grease had turned his ordinary curling brown hair into a
damp, shining mass that dripped in tiny rills, from time to time, down on his coat collar,
but Hi was happy.  Beau Brummel, at the height of his sartorial fame, never achieved a more
self-satisfying toilet.

The Squire adjusted his spectacles.  "What are you dressing up like that on a week day for,
Hi?  Off with you now; and if you ain't in time for them cars you'll catch 'Hail Columbia'
when you get back."

"Looizy," said the Squire, as soon as Hi was out of hearing, "why didn't Dave go after Katie?
Yes, I know about the hay.  Hay is hay, but it ought not to come first in a man's affections."

"You'd better let 'em alone, Amasy; if they're going to marry they will without any help from
us; love affairs don't seem to prosper much, when old folks interfere."

"Looizy, it's my opinion that Dave's too shy to make up to women folks. I don't think he'll
even get up the courage to ask Kate to marry him."

"Well, I never saw the man yet who was too bashful to propose to the right woman."  And a great
deal of decision went into the churning that accompanied her words.

"Mebbe so, mebbe so," said the Squire.  He felt that the vagaries of the affections was too
deep a subject for him.  "Anyhow, Looizy, I don't want no old maids and bachelors potterin'
round this farm getting cranky notions in their heads.  Look at the professor.  Why, a good
woman would have taken the nonsense out of him years ago."

Mrs. Bartlett did not have to go far to look at the professor.  He was flying about her front
garden at that very moment in an apparently distracted state, crouching, springing, hiding
back of bushes and reappearing with the startling swiftness of magic.  The Bartletts were quite
used to these antics on the part of their well-paying summer boarder.  He was chasing butterflies--a
manifestly insane proceeding, of course, but if a man could afford to pay ten dollars a week
for summer board in the State of New Hampshire, he could afford to chase butterflies.

Professor Sterling was an old young man who had given up his life to entomology; his collection
of butterflies was more vital to him than any living issue; the Bartletts regarded him as a
mild order of lunatic, whose madness might have taken a more dangerous form than making up
long names for every-day common bugs.

"Look at him, just look at him, Looizy, sweating himself a day like this, over a common dusty
miller.  It beats all, and with his money."

"Well, it's a harmless amusement," said the kindly Louisa, "there's a heap more harmful things
that a man might chase than butterflies."

The stillness of the midsummer day was broken by the sound of far-off singing.  It came in
full-toned volume across the fields, the high soaring of women's voices blended with the deeper
harmony of men.

"What's that?" said the Squire testily, looking in the direction of the strawberry beds, from
whence the singing came.

"It's only the berry-pickers, father," said David, coming through the field gate and going
over to the well for a drink.

"I wish they'd work more and sing less," said the Squire.  "All this singing business is too
picturesque for me."

"They've about finished, father.  I came for the money to pay them off."

It was characteristic of Dave to uphold the rights of the berry-pickers. They were all friends
of his, young men and women who sang in the village choir and who went out among their neighbors'
berry patches in summer, and earned a little extra money in picking the fruit.  The village
thought only the more of them for their thrift, and their singing at the close of their work
was generally regarded in the light of a favor. Zeke, Sam, Cynthia and Amelia who formed the
quartet, had all fine voices and no social function for miles around Wakefield was complete
without their music.

The Squire said no more about the berry-pickers.  Dave handed him a paper on which the time
of each berry-picker and the amount of his or her wage was marked opposite.  The Squire took
it and adjusted his glasses with a certain grimness--he was honest to the core, but few things
came harder to him than parting with money.

Dave and his mother at the churn exchanged a friendly wink.  The extracting of coin from the
head of the house was no easy process. Mother and son both enjoyed its accomplishment through
an outside agency. It was too hard a process in the home circle to be at all agreeable.

While the Squire was wrestling with his arithmetic, Dave noticed a strange girl pass by the
outer gate, pause, go on and then return.  He looked at her with deep interest.  She was so
pale and tired-looking it seemed as if she had not strength enough left to walk to the house.
Her long lashes rested wearily on the pale cheeks.  She lifted them with an effort, and Dave
found himself staring eagerly in a pair of great, sorrowful brown eyes.

The girl came on unsteadily up the walk to where the Squire sat, thumbing his account to the
berry-pickers.  "Well, girl, who are you?" he said, not as unkindly as the words might imply.

The sound of her own voice, as she tried to answer his question, was like the far-off droning
of a river.  It did not seem to belong to her.  "My name is Moore--Anna Moore--and I thought--I
hoped perhaps you might be good enough to give me work."  The strange faces spun about her
eyes. She tottered and would have fallen if Dave had not caught her.

Dave, the silent, the slow of action, the cool-headed, seemed suddenly bereft of his chilling
serenity.  "Here, mother, a chair; father, some water, quick."  He carried the swooning girl
to the shadow of the porch and fanned her tenderly with his broad-brimmed straw hat.

The old people hastened to do his bidding.  Dave, excited and issuing orders in that tone,
was too unusual to be passed over lightly.

"What were you going to say, Miss Moore?" said the Squire as soon as the brown eyes opened.

"I thought, perhaps, I might find something to do here--I'm looking for work."

"Why, my dear," said Mrs. Bartlett, smoothing the dark curls, "you are not fit to stand, let
alone work."

"You could not earn your salt," was the Squire's less sympathetic way of expressing the same
sentiment.  "Where is your home?"

"I have no home."  She looked at them desperately, her dark eyes appealing to one and the other,
as if they were the jury that held her life in the balance.  Only one pair of eyes seemed to
hold out any hope.

"If you would only try me I could soon prove to you that I am not worthless."  Unconsciously
she held out her hand in entreaty.

"Here we are, here we are, all off for Boston!"  The voice was Hi's.  He was just turning in
at the field gate with Kate beside him.  Kate, a ravishing vision, in pink muslin; a smiling,
contented vision of happy, rosy girlhood, coming back to the home-nest, where a thousand welcomes
awaited her.

"Hello, every one!" she said, running in and kissing them in turn, "how nice it is to be home."

They forgot the homeless stranger and her pleading for shelter in their glad welcome to the
daughter of the house.  She had shrunk back into the shadow.  She had never felt the desolation,
the utter loneliness of her position so keenly before.

"Hurrah for Kate!" cried the Squire, and everyone took it up and gave three cheers for Kate
Brewster.

The wanderer withdrew into the deepest shadow of the porch, that her alien presence might not
mar the joyous home-coming of Kate Brewster. There was no jealousy in her soul for the fair
girl who had such a royal welcome back to the home-nest.  She would not have robbed her of
it if such a thing had been possible, but the sense of her own desolation gripped at the heart
like an iron band.

She waited like a mendicant to beg for the chance of earning her bread. That was all she asked--the
chance to work, to eat the bread of independence, and yet she knew how slim the chance was.
She had been wandering about seeking employment all day, and no one would give it.

Only Dave had not forgotten the stranger is the joy of Kate's home-coming.  He had welcomed
the flurry of excitement to say a few words to his mother, his sworn ally in all the little
domestic plots.

"Mother," he said, "do contrive to keep that girl.  It would be nothing short of murder to
turn her out on the highway."

A pressure of the motherly hand assured Dave that he could rely on her support.

"Well, well, Katie," said the Squire with his arm around his niece's waist, "the old place
has been lonely without you!"

"Uncle, who is that girl on the porch?" she asked in an undertone.

"That we don't know; says her name is Moore, and that she wants work. Kind of sounds like a
fairy story, don't it, Kate?"

"Poor thing, poor thing!" was Kate's only answer.

"Amasy," said Mrs. Bartlett, assuming all the courage of a rabbit about to assert itself, "this
family is bigger than it was with Kate home and the professor here, and I am not getting younger--I
want you to let me keep this young woman to help me about the house."

The Squire set his jaw, always an ominous sign to his family.  "I don't like this takin' strangers,
folks we know nothing about; it's mighty suspicious to see a young woman tramping around the
country, without a home, looking for work.  I don't like it."

The girl, who sat apart while these strangers considered taking her in, as if she had been
a friendless dog, arose, her eyes were full of unshed tears, her voice quivered, but pride
supported her.  Turning to the Squire, she said:

"You are suspicious because you are blest with both home and family.  My mother died a few
months ago, I myself have been ill.  I make this explanation not because your kindness warrants
it, sir, but because your family would have been willing to take me on faith."  She bowed her
head in the direction of Mrs. Bartlett and Dave.

"Well," the Squire interrupted, "you need not go away hungry, you can stop here and eat your
dinner, and then Hi Holler can take you in the wagon to the place provided for such unfortunate
cases, and where you'll have food and shelter."

"The poor farm, do you mean?" the girl said, wildly; "no, no; if you will not give me work
I will not take your charity."

"Father!" exclaimed Dave and his mother together.

"Now, now," said Kate, going up to the Squire and putting her hands on his shoulders, "it seems
to me as if my uncle's been getting a little hard while I've been away from home, and I don't
think it has improved him a bit.  The uncle I left here had a heart as big as a house.  What
has he done with it?"

Here the professor came to Kate's aid.  "Squire," said he, "isn't it written that 'If ye do
it unto the least of these, ye do it unto me?'"

"Well, well," said the Squire, "when a man's family are against him, there's only one thing
for him to do if he wants any peace of mind, and that is to come round to their way, and I
ain't never goin' to have it said I went agin the Scripter."  He went over to Anna and took
her pale, thin hand in his great brown one.

"Well, little woman, they want you to stay, and I am not going to interfere.  I leave it to
you that I won't live to regret it."

This time the tears splashed down the pale cheeks.  "Dear sir, I thank you, and I promise you
shall never repent this kindness."  Then turning to the rest--"I thank you all.  I can only
repay you by doing my best."

"Well said, well said," and Kate gave her a sisterly pat on the shoulder.

Anna would not listen to Mrs. Bartlett's kind suggestion that she should rest a little while.
She went immediately to the house, removed her hat, and returned completely enveloped in a
big gingham apron that proved wonderfully becoming to her dark beauty--or was it that the homeless,
hunted look had gone out of those sorrowful eyes?

And so Anna Moore had found a home at last, one in which she would have to work early and late
to retain a foothold--but still a home, and the word rang in her ears like a soothing song,
after the anguish of the last year.  Her youth and beauty, she had long since discovered, were
only barriers to the surroundings she sought.  There had been many who offered to help the
friendless girl, but their offers were such that death seemed preferable, by contrast, and
Anna had gone from place to place, seeking only the right to earn her bread, and yet, finding
only temptation and danger.

Dave, passing out to the barn, stopped for a moment to regard her, as she sat on the lowest
step of the porch, with her sleeves rolled above the elbow, working a bowl of butter.  He smiled
at her encouragingly--it was well that none of his family saw it.  Such a smile from the shy,
silent Dave might have been a revelation to the home circle.

CHAPTER X.

ANNA AND SANDERSON AGAIN MEET.

"And who be you, with those big brown eyes, sitting on the Bartlett's porch working that butter
as if you've been used to handling butter all your life?  No city girl, I'm sure."  Anna had
been at the Squire's for a week when the above query was put to her.

The voice was high and rasping.  The whole sentence was delivered without breath or pause,
as if it was one long word.  The speaker might have been the old maid as portrayed in the illustrated
weekly.  Nothing was lacking--corkscrew curls, prunella boots, cameo brooch and chain, a gown
of the antiquated Redingote type, trimmed with many small ruffles and punctuated, irrelevantly,
with immovable buttons.

"I am Anna Moore."

"Know as much now as I ever did," snapped the interlocutor.

"I have come to work for Mrs. Bartlett, to help her about the house."

"Land sakes.  Bartlett's keeping help!  How stylish they're getting."

"Yes, Marthy, we are progressing," said Kate, coming out of the house. "Anna, this is our friend,
Miss Marthy Perkins."

The village gossip's confusion was but momentary.  "Do you know, Kate, I just came over a-purpose
to see if you'd come.  What kind of clothes are they wearing in Boston?  Are shirtwaists going
to have tucked backs or plain?  I am going to make over my gray alpaca, and I wouldn't put
the scissors into it till I seen you."

"Come upstairs, Marthy, and I'll show you my new shirtwaists."

"Land sakes," said the spinster, bridling.  "I would be delighted, but you know how I can't
move without that Seth Holcomb a-taggin' after me; it's just awful the way I am persecuted.
I do wish I'd get old and then there'll be an end of it."  She held out a pair of mittens,
vintage of 1812, to Kate, appealingly.

Seth Holcomb stumped in sight as she concluded; he had been Martha's faithful admirer these
twenty years, but she would never reward him; her hopes of younger and less rheumatic game
seemed to spring eternal.

During the few days that Anna had made one of the Squire's family she went about with deep
thankfulness in her heart; she had been given the chance to work, to earn her bread by these
good people.  Who could tell--as time went on perhaps they would grow fond of her, learn to
regard her as one of themselves--it was so much better than being so utterly alone.

Her energy never flagged, she did her share of the work with the light hand of experience that
delighted the old housekeeper.  It was so good to feel a roof over her head, and to feel that
she was earning her right to it.

Supper had been cooked, the table laid and everything was in readiness for the family meal,
but the old clock wanted five minutes of the hour; the girl came out into the glowing sunset
to draw a pail of water from the old well, but paused to enjoy the scene.  Purple, gold and
crimson was the mantle of the departing day; and all her crushed and hopeless youth rose, cheered
by its glory.

"Thank God," she murmured fervently, "at last I have found a refuge.  I am beginning life again.
The shadow of the old one will rest on me forever, but time and work, the cure for every grief,
will cure me."

Her eyes had been turned toward the west, where the day was going out in such a riot of splendor,
and she had not noticed the man who entered the gate and was making his way toward her, flicking
his boots with his riding crop as he walked.

She turned suddenly at the sound of steps on the gravel; in the gathering darkness neither
could see nor recognize the other till they were face to face.

The woman's face blanched, she stifled an exclamation of horror and stared at him.

"You! you here!"

It was Lennox Sanderson, and the sight of him, so suddenly, in this out-of-the-way place, made
her reel, almost fainting against the well-curb.

He grabbed her arm and shook her roughly, and said, "What are you doing here, in this place?"

"I am trying to earn my living.  Go, go," she whispered.

"Do you think I came here after you?" he sneered.  "I've come to see the Squire."  All the
selfishness and cowardice latent in Sanderson's character were reflected in his face, at that
moment, destroying its natural symmetry, disfiguring it with tell-tale lines, and showing him
at his par value--a weak, contemptible libertine, brought to bay.

This meeting with his victim after all these long months of silence, in this remote place,
deprived him, momentarily, of his customary poise and equilibrium.  Why was she here?  Would
she denounce him to these people?  What effect would it have? were some of the questions that
whirled through his brain as they stood together in the gathering twilight.

But the shrinking look in her eyes allayed his fears.  He read terror in every line of her
quivering figure, and in the frantic way she clung to the well-curb to increase the space between
them.  She, with the right to accuse, unconsciously took the attitude of supplication.  The
man knew he had nothing to fear, and laid his plans accordingly.

"I don't believe you've come here to look for work," he said, stooping over the crouching figure.
"You've come here to make trouble--to hound the life out of me."

"My hope in coming here was that I might never see you again.  What could I want of you, Lennox
Sanderson?"

The measured contempt of her tones was not without its effect.  He winced perceptibly, but
his coarse instincts rallied to his help and again he began to bully:

"Spare me the usual hard-luck story of the deceived young woman trying to make an honest living.
If you insist on drudging, it's your own fault.  I offered to take care of you and provide
for your future, but you received my offers of assistance with a 'Villain-take-your-gold' style,
that I was not prepared to accept.  If, as you say, you never wish to see me again, what is
simpler than to go away?"

His cold-blooded indifference, his utter withdrawal from the calamity he had brought upon her,
his airy suggestion that she should go because it suited his pleasure to remain, maddened Anna.
The blood rushed to her pale cheeks and there came her old conquering beauty with it.  She
eyed him with equal defiance.

"I shall not go, because it does not suit me."  And then wavering a little at the thought of
her wretched experience--"I had too much trouble finding a place where an honest home is offered
for honest work, to leave this one for your whim.  No, I shall not go."

They heard footsteps moving about the house.  A lamp shone out from the dining-room window.
The Squire's voice, inquiring for Kate, came across to them on the still summer air.  They
looked into each other's pale, determined faces.  Which would yield?  It was the old struggle
between the sexes--a struggle old as earth, unsettled as chaos.

Which should yield?  The man who had sinned much, or the woman who had loved much?

Sanderson employed all the force of his brutality to frighten Anna into yielding.  "See here,"
and he caught her arm in no uncertain grasp. "You've got to go.  You can't stay here in the
same place with me.  If money is what you want, you shall have it; but you've got to go.  Do
you understand?  Go!"

He had emphasized his words by tightening the grip on her arm, and the pain of it well nigh
made her cry out.  He relaxed his hold just as Hi Holler came out on the porch, seized the
supper horn and blew it furiously.  The Squire came down and looked amazed at the smartly dressed
young city man talking to Anna.

"Squire," she said, taking the initiative, "this gentleman is inquiring for you."

On hearing the Squire's footsteps, Sanderson turned to him with all the cordiality at his command,
and, slapping him on the back, said: "Hello, Squire, I've just ridden over to talk to you about
your prize Jersey heifer."  The Squire had only met Sanderson once or twice before, and that
was prior to Kate's visit to Boston; but he knew all about the young man who had become his
neighbor.

Lennox Sanderson was a lucky fellow, and while waiting impatiently for his father to start
him in life, his uncle, the judge, died and mentioned no one but Lennox Sanderson in his will.

The Squire had known the late Judge Sanderson, the "big man" of the county, very well, and
lost no time in cultivating the acquaintance of the judge's nephew, who had fallen heir to
the fine property the judge had accumulated, no small part of which was the handsome "country
seat" of the judge in the neighborhood.

That is how this fine young city man happened to drop in on the Squire so unceremoniously.
He had learned of Kate's return from Boston and was hastening to pay his respects to the pretty
girl.  To say he was astounded to find Anna on the spot is putting it mildly.  He believed
she had learned of his good fortune and had followed him, to make disagreeable exactions. 
It put him in a rage and it cost him a strong effort to conceal it before the Squire.

"Walk right in," said the Squire, beaming with hospitality.  Sanderson entered and the girl
found herself alone in the twilight.  Anna sat on the bench by the well-curb and faced despair.
She was physically so weak from her long and recent illness that the unexpected interview with
Sanderson left her faint and exhausted.  The momentary flare up of her righteous indignation
at Sanderson's outrageous proposition that she should go away had sapped her strength and she
made ready to meet one of the great crises of life with nerveless, trembling body and a mind
incapable of action.

She pressed her throbbing head on the cool stones of the well-curb and prayed for light.  What
could she do--where could she go?  Her fate rose up before her like a great stone prison wall
at which she beat with naked bleeding hand and the stones still stood in all their mightiness.

How could she cope with such heartless cruelty as that of Sanderson? All that she had asked
for was an honest roof in return for honest toil.  And there are so few such, thought the helpless
girl, remembering with awful vividness her efforts to find work and the pitfalls and barriers
that had been put in her way, often in the guise of friendly interest.

She could not go out and face it all over again.  It was so bleak--so bleak.  There seemed
to be no place in the great world that she could fill, no one stood in need of her help, no
one required her services. They had no faith in her story that she was looking for work and
had no home.

"What, a good-looking young girl like you!  What, no home?  No, no; we don't need you," or
the other frightful alternative.

And yet she must go.  Sanderson was right.  She could not stay where he was.  She must go.
But where?

She could hear his voice in the dining-room, entertaining them all with his inimitable gift
of story-telling.  And then, their laughter--peal on peal of it--and his voice cutting in,
with its well-bred modulation: "Yes, I thought it was a pretty good story myself, even if the
joke was on me."  And again their laughter and applause.  She had no weapons with which to
fight such cold-blooded selfishness.  To stay meant eternal torture.  She saw herself forced
to face his complacent sneer day after day and death on the roadside seemed preferable.

She tried to face the situation in all its pitiful reality, but the injustice of it cried out
for vengeance and she could not think.  She could only bury her throbbing temples in her hands
and murmur over and over again: "It is all wrong."

David found her thus, as he made his way to the house from the barn, where he had been detained
later than the others.  When he saw her forlorn little figure huddled by the well-curb in an
attitude of absolute dejection, he could not go on without saying some word of comfort.

"Miss Anna," he said very gently, "I hope you are not going to be homesick with us."

She lifted a pale, tear-stained face, on which the lines of suffering were written far in advance
of her years.

"It does not matter, Mr. David," she answered him, "I am going away."

"No, no, you are not going to do anything of the kind," he said gently; "the work seems hard
today because it is new, but in a day or two you will become accustomed to it, and to us. 
We may seem a bit hard and unsympathetic; I can see you are not used to our ways of living,
and looking at things, but we are sincere, and we want you to stay with us; indeed, we do."

She gave him a wealth of gratitude from her beautiful brown eyes.  "It is not that I find the
place hard, Mr. David.  Every one has been so kind to me that I would be glad to stay, but--but----"

He did not press her for her reason.  "You have been ill, I believe you said?"

"Yes, very ill indeed, and there are not many who would give work to a delicate girl.  Oh,
I am sorry to go----"  She broke off wildly, and the tears filled her eyes.

"Miss Anna, when one is ill, it's hard to know what is best.  Don't make up your mind just
yet.  Stay for a few days and give us a trial, and just call on me when you want a bucket of
water or anything else that taxes your strength."

She tried to answer him but could not.  They were the first words of real kindness, after all
these months of sorrow and loneliness, and they broke down the icy barrier that seemed to have
enclosed her heart. She bent her head and wept silently.

"There, there, little woman," he said, patting her shoulder when he would have given anything
to put his arm around her and offer her the devotion of his life.  But Dave had a good bit
of hard common sense under his hat, and he knew that such a declaration would only hasten her
departure and the wise young man continued to be brotherly, to urge her to stay for his mother's
sake, and because it was so hard for a young woman to find the proper kind of a home, and really
she was not a good judge of what was best for her.

And Anna, whose storm-swept soul was so weary of beating against the rocks, listened and made
up her mind to enjoy the wholesome companionship of these good people, for a little while at least.

CHAPTER XI.

RUSTIC HOSPITALITY.

Sanderson's clothes, his manner, his slightly English accent, were all so many items in a good
letter of credit to those simple people.  The Squire was secretly proud at having a city man
like young Sanderson for a neighbor.  It would unquestionably add tone to Wakefield society.

Kate regarded him with the frank admiration of a young woman who appreciates a smart appearance,
good manner, and the indefinable something that goes to make up the ensemble of the man of
the world. He could say nothing, cleverly; he had little subtleties of manner that put the
other men she had met to poor advantage beside him.  On the night in question the Squire was
giving a supper in honor of the berry-pickers who had helped to gather in the crop the week
before. Afterwards, they would sing the sweet, homely songs that all the village loved, and
then troop home by moonlight to the accompaniment of their own music.

"Well, Mr. Sanderson," said the Squire, "suppose you stay to supper with us.  See, we've lots
of good company"--and he waved his hand, indicating the different groups, "and we'll talk about
the stock afterwards."

He accepted their invitation to supper with flattering alacrity; they were so good to take
pity on a solitaire, and Mrs. Bartlett was such a famous housekeeper; he had heard of her apple-pies
in Boston.  Dave scented patronage in his "citified" air; he and other young men at the table--young
men who helped about the farm--resented everything about the stranger from the self-satisfied
poise of his head to the aggressive gloss on his riding-boots.

"Why, Dave," said Kate to her cousin in an undertone, "you look positively fierce.  If I had
a particle of vanity I should say you were jealous."

"When I get jealous, Kate, it will be of a man, not of a tailor's sign."

"Say, Miss Kate," said Hi Holler, "they're a couple of old lengths of stove-pipes out in the
loft; I'm going to polish 'em up for leggins. Darned if I let any city dude get ahead o' me."

"The green-eyed monster is driving you all crazy," laughed Kate, in great good humor.  "The
girls don't seem to find any fault with him." Cynthia and Amelia were both regarding him with
admiring glances.

Dave turned away in some impatience.  Involuntarily his eyes sought out Anna Moore to see if
she, too, was adding her quota of admiration to the stranger's account.  But Anna had no eyes
or ears for anything but the business of the moment, which was attending to the Squire's guests.
Evidently one woman could retain her senses in the presence of this tailor's figure.  Dave's
admiration of Anna went up several points.

She slipped about as quietly as a spirit, removing and replacing dishes with exquisite deftness.
Even the Squire was forced to acknowledge that she was a great acquisition to the household.
She neither sought to avoid nor to attract the attention of Sanderson; she waited on him attentively
and unobtrusively as she would have waited on any other guest at the Squire's table.  The Squire
and Sanderson retired to the porch to discuss the purchase of the stock, and Mrs. Bartlett
and Anna set to work to clear away the dishes.  Kate excused herself from assisting, as she
had to assume the position as hostess and soon had the church choir singing in its very best
style.  Song after song rang out on the clear summer air.  It was a treat not likely to be
forgotten soon by the listeners.  All the members of the choir had what is known as "natural
talent," joined to which there was a very fair amount of cultivation, and the result was music
of a most pleasing type, music that touches the heart--not a mere display Of vocal gymnastics.

Toward the close of the festivities, the sound of wheels was heard, and the cracked voice of
Rube Whipple, the town constable, urging his ancient nag to greater speed, issued out of the
darkness.  Rube was what is known as a "character."  He had held the office, which on account
of being associated with him had become a sort of municipal joke, in the earliest recollections
of the oldest inhabitants.  He apparently got no older.  For the past fifty years he had looked
as if he had been ready to totter into the grave at any moment, but he took it out apparently,
in attending to other people's funerals instead. His voice was cracked, he walked with a limp,
and his clothes, Hi Holler said: "was the old suit Noah left in the ark."

The choir had just finished singing "Rock of Ages" as the constable turned his venerable piece
of horseflesh into the front yard.

"Well, well," he said, in a voice like a graphophone badly in need of repair, "I might have
knowed it was the choir kicking up all that rumpus.  Heard the row clear up to the postoffice,
and thought I'd come up to see if anyone was getting murdered."

"Thought you'd be on the spot for once, did you, Rube?" inquired Hi Holler.  "Well, seeing
you're here, we might accommodate you, by getting up a murder, or a row, or something.  'Twould
be too bad to have nothing happen, seeing you are on hand for once."

The choir joined heartily in the laugh on the constable, who waited till it had subsided and
then said:

"Well, what's the matter with jailing all of you for disturbing the public peace.  There's
law for it--'disturbin' the public peace with strange sounds at late and unusual hours of the
night.'"

"All right, constable," said Cynthia, "I suppose you'll drive us to jail in that rig o' yourn.
I'd be willing to stay there six months for the sake o' driving behind so spry a piece of horse-flesh
as that."

"'Tain't the horseflesh she's after, constable, it's the driver. Everyone 'round here knows
how Cynthia dew admire you."

"Professional jealousy is what's at the bottom of this," declared Kate, "the choir is jealous
of Uncle Rube's reputation as a singer, and Uncle Rube does not care for the choir's new-fangled
methods of singing. Rivalry!  Rivalry!  That's what the matter."

"That's right, Miss Kate," squeaked the constable, "they're jealous of my singing.  There ain't
one of 'em, with all their scaling, and do-re-mi-ing can touch me.  If I turned professional
to-day, I'd make more'n all of 'em put together."

"That's cause they'd pay you to quit.  Ha, ha," said Hi Holler.

And so the evening passed with the banter that invariably took place when Rube was of the party.
It was late when they left the Squire's, the constable going along with them, and all singing
merrily as birds on a summer morning.

David went out under the stars and smoked innumerable pipes, but they did not give their customary
solace to-night.  There was an upheaval going on in his well regulated mind.  "Who was she?
What was the mystery about her?  How did a girl like that come to be tramping about the country
looking for work?"  Her manner of speaking, the very intonations of her voice, her choice of
words, all proclaimed her from a different world from theirs.  He had noticed her hands, white
and fragile, and her small delicate wrists.  They did not belong to a working woman.

And her eyes, that seemed to hold the sorrows of centuries in their liquid depths.  What was
the mystery of it all?  And that insolent city chap!  What a look he had given her.  The memory
of it made Dave's hands come together as if he were strangling something.  But it was all too
deep for him.  The lights glimmered in the rooms upstairs.  His father walked to the outer
gate to say good-night to Mr. Sanderson--and he tried to justify the feeling of hatred he felt
toward Sanderson, but could not.  The sound of a shutter being drawn in, caused him to look
up.  Anna, leaned out in the moonlight for a moment before drawing in the blind.  Dave took
off his hat--it was an unconscious act of reverence.  The next moment, the grave, shy countryman
had smiled at his sentimentality.  The shutters closed and all was dark, but Dave continued
to think and smoke far into the night.

The days slipped by in pleasant and even tenor.  The summer burned itself out in a riot of
glorious colors, the harvest was gathered in, and the ripe apples fell from the trees--and
there was a wail of coming winter to the night wind.  Anna Moore had made her place in the
Bartlett family.  The Squire could not imagine how he ever got along without her; she always
thought of everyone's comfort and remembered their little individual likes and dislikes, till
the whole household grew to depend on her.

But she never spoke of herself nor referred to her family, friends or manner of living, before
coming to the Bartlett farm.

When she had first come among them, her beauty had caused a little ripple of excitement among
the neighbors; the young men, in particular, were all anxious to take her to husking bees and
quilting parties, but she always had some excellent excuse for not going, and while her refusals
were offered with the utmost kindness, there was a quiet dignity about the girl that made any
attempt at rustic playfulness or familiarity impossible.

Sanderson came to the house from time to time, but Anna treated him precisely as she would
have treated any other young man who came to the Squire's.  She was the family "help," her
duty stopped in announcing the guests--or sometimes, and then she felt that fate had been particularly
cruel--in waiting on him at table.

Once or twice when Sanderson had found her alone, he had attempted to speak to her.  But she
silenced him with a look that seat him away cowering like a whipped cur.  If he had any interest
in any member of the Squire's family, Anna did not notice it.  He was an ugly scar on her memory,
and when not actually in his presence she tried to forget that he lived.

CHAPTER XII.

KATE BREWSTER HOLDS SANDERSON'S ATTENTION.

  "A stony adversary, an inhuman wretch
  Incapable of pity, void and empty
  From any dram of mercy."--Shakespeare.

It was perhaps owing to the fact that Anna strove hourly to eliminate the memory of Lennox
Sanderson from her life, that she remained wholly unaware of that which every member of the
Squire's household was beginning to notice: namely, that Lennox Sanderson was becoming daily
more attentive to Kate Brewster.

She had more than once hazarded a guess on why a man of Sanderson's tastes should care to remain
in so quiet a neighborhood, but could arrive at no solution of the case.  In discussing him,
she had heard the Bartletts quote his reason, that he was studying practical farming, and later
on intended to take it up, on a large scale.  When she had first seen him at the Squire's,
she had made up her mind that it would be better for her to go away, but the memory of the
homeless wanderings she had endured after her mother's death, filled her with terror, and after
the first shock of seeing Sanderson, she concluded that it was better to remain where she was,
unless he should attempt to force his society on her, in which case she would have to go, if
she died by the wayside.

Dave was coming across the fields late one autumn afternoon when he saw Anna at the well, trying
with all her small strength to draw up a bucket of water.  The well--one of the old-fashioned
kind that worked by a "sweep" and pole, at the end of which hung "the old oaken bucket" which
Anna drew up easily till the last few feet and then found it was hard work.  She had both hands
on the iron bale of the bucket and was panting a little, when a deep, gentle voice said in
her ear: "Let go, little woman, that's too heavy for you."  And she felt the bucket taken forcibly
out of her hand.

"Never mind me, Mr. David," she said, giving way reluctantly.

"Always at some hard work or other," he said; "you won't quit till you get laid up sick."

He filled the water-pail from the bucket for her, which she took up and was about to go when
he found courage to say:

"Won't you stay a minute, Anna, I want to talk to you.

"Anna, have you any relatives?"

"Not now."

"But have you no friends who knew you and loved you before you came to us?"

"I want nothing of my friends, Mr. David, but their good will."

"Anna, why will you persist in cutting yourself off from the rest of the world like this? 
You are too good, too womanly a girl, to lead this colorless kind of an existence forever."

She looked at him pleadingly out of her beautiful eyes.  "Mr. David, you would not be intentionally
cruel to me, I know, so don't speak to me of these things.  It only distresses me--and can
do you no good."

"Forgive me, Anna, I would not hurt you for the world--but you must know that I love you. 
Don't you think you could ever grow to care for me?"

"Mr. David, I shall never marry any one.  Do not ask me to explain, and I beg of you, if you
have a feeling of even ordinary kindness for me. that you will never mention this subject to
me again.  You remember how I promised your father that if he would let me make my home with
you, he should never live to regret it?  Do you think that I intend to repay the dearest wish
of his heart in this way?  Why, Mr. David, you are engaged to marry Kate."  She took up the
water-pail to go.

"Kate's one of the best girls alive, but I feel toward her like a brother.  Besides, Anna,
what have you been doing with those big brown eyes of yours?  Don't you see that Kate and Lennox
Sanderson are head over heels in love with each other?"

The pail of water slipped from Anna's hand and sent a flood over David's boots.

"No, no--anything but that!  You don't know what you are saying!"

Dave looked at her in absolute amazement.  He had no chance to reply. As if in answer to his
remark, there came through the outer gate, Kate and Sanderson arm in arm.  They had been gathering
golden-rod, and their arms were full of the glory of autumn.

There was a certain assumption of proprietary right in the way that Sanderson assisted Kate
with the golden-rod that Anna recognized.  She knew it, and falseness of it burned through,
her like so much corrosive acid.  She stood with the upturned pail at her feet, unable to recover
her composure, her bosom heaving high, her eyes dilating.  She stood there, wild as a startled
panther, uncertain whether to fight or fly.

"You don't know what a good time we've been having," Kate called out.

"You see, Anna dear, I was right," David said to her.

But Anna did not answer.  Sorrow had broken her on its wheel.  Where was the justice of it?
Why should he go forth to seek his happiness--and find it--and she cower in shame through all
the years to come?

Dave saw that she had forgotten his presence; she stood there in the gathering night with wild,
unseeing eyes.  Memory had turned back the hands of the clock till it pointed out that fatal
hour on another golden afternoon in autumn, and Sanderson, the hero of the hour, had come to
her with the marks of battle still upon him, and as the crowd gave away for him, right and
left, he had said: "I could not help winning with your eyes on me."

Oh, the lying dishonor of it!  It was not jealousy that prompted her, for a moment, to go to
Kate and tell her all.  What right had such vultures as he to be received, smiled upon, courted,
caressed?  If there was justice on earth, his sin should have been branded on him, that other
women might take warning.

Dave knew that her thoughts had flown miles wide of him, and his unselfishness told him that
it would be kindness to go into the house and leave her to herself, which he did with a heavy
heart and many misgivings.

Hi Holler had none of Dave's sensitiveness.  He saw Anna standing by the gate, and being a
loquacious soul, who saw no advantage in silence, if there was a fellow creature to talk to;
he came up grinning: "Say, Anna, I wonder if me and you was both thinkin' about the same thing--I
was thinkin' as I seen Sanderson and Kate passing that I certainly would enjoy a piece o' weddin'
cake, don't care whose it was."

"No, Hi," Anna said, being careful to restrain any bitterness of tone, "I certainly was not
wishing for a wedding cake."

"I certainly do like wedding cake, Anna, but then, I like everything to eat.  Some folks don't
like one thing, some folks don't like another. Difference between them an' me is, I like everything."

Anna laughed in spite of herself.

"Yes, since I like everything, and I like it all the time, why, I ain't more than swallowed
the last buckwheat for breakfast, than I am ready for dinner.  You don't s'pose I'm sick or
anything, do you, Anna?"

"I don't think the symptoms sound alarming, Hi."

"Well, you take a load off my mind, Anna, cause I was getting scared about myself."  Seeing
the empty water-pail, Hi refilled it and carried it in the house for Anna.  Dave was not the
only one in that household who was miserable, owing to Cupid's unaccountable antics.  Professor
Sterling, the well-paying summer boarder, continued to remain with the Bartletts, though summer,
the happy season during which the rustic may square his grudge with the city man within his
gates, had long since passed.

The professor had spared enough time from his bugs and beetles to notice how blue Kate's eyes
were, and how luxurious her hair; then he had also, with some misgivings, regarded his own
in the mirror, with the unassuring result that his hair was thinning on top and his eyes looked
old through his gold-bowed spectacles.

The discovery did not meet with the indifference one might have expected on the part of the
conscientious entomologist.  He fell even to the depths of reading hair-restoring circulars
and he spent considerable time debating whether he should change his spectacles for a pince-nez.

The spectacles, however, continued to do their work nobly for the professor, not only assisting
him to make his scientific observations on the habits of a potato-bug in captivity, but showing
him with far more clearness that Kate Brewster and Lennox Sanderson contrived to spend a great
deal of time in each other's society, and that both seemed to enjoy the time thus spent.

The professor went back to his beetles, but they palled.  The most gorgeous butterfly ever
constructed had not one-tenth the charm for him that was contained in a glance of Kate Brewster's
eyes, or a glimpse of her golden head as she flitted about the house.  And so the autumn waned.

CHAPTER XIII.

Sanderson, during his visits to the Bartlett farm--and they became more frequent as time went
on--would look at Anna with cold curiosity, not unmixed with contempt, when by chance they
happened to be alone for a moment.  But the girl never displayed by so much as the quiver of
an eye-lash that she had ever seen him before.

Had Lennox Sanderson been capable of fathoming Anna Moore, or even of reading her present marble
look or tone, he would have seen that he had little to apprehend from her beyond contempt,
a thing he would not in the least have minded; but he was cunning, and like the cunning shallow.
So he began to formulate plans for making things even with Anna--in other words, buying her off.

His admiration for Kate deepened in proportion as the square of that young woman's reserve
increased.  She was not only the first woman who refused to burn incense at his shrine, but
also the first who frankly admitted that she found him amusing.  She mildly guyed his accent,
his manner of talking, his London clothes, his way of looking at things. Never having lived
near a university town, she escaped the traditional hero worship.  It was a new sensation for
Sanderson, and eventually he succumbed to it.

"You know, Miss Kate," he said one day, "you are positively the most refreshing girl I have
ever met.  You don't know how much I love you."

Kate considered for a moment.  There was a hint of patronage, it seemed to her, in his compliment,
that she did not care for.

"Oh, consider the debt cancelled, Mr. Sanderson.  You have not found my rustic simplicity any
more refreshing than I have found your poster waistcoats."

"Why do you persist is misunderstanding and hurting me?"

"I apologize to your waistcoats, Mr. Sanderson.  I have long considered them the substitute
for your better nature."

"Better natures and that sort of thing have rather gone out of style, haven't they?"

"They are always out of style with people who never had them."

"Is this quarreling, Kate, or making love?"

"Oh, let's make it quarreling, Mr. Sanderson.  And now about that horse you lent me.  That's
a vile bit you've got on him."  And the conversation turned to other things, as it always did
when he tried to be sentimental with Kate.  Sometimes he thought it was not the girl, but her
resistance, that he admired so much.

Things in the Bartlett household were getting a bit uneasy.  The Squire chafed that his cherished
project of Kate and Dave's marrying seemed no nearer realization now than it had been two years
ago.

Dave's equable temper vanished under the strain and uncertainty regarding Anna Moore's silence
and apparent indifference to him.  He would have believed her before all the world; her side
of the story was the only version for him; but Anna did not see fit to break her silence. 
When he would approach her on the subject she would only say:

"Mr. David, your father employs me as a servant.  I try to do my work faithfully, but my past
life concerns no one but myself."

And Dave, fearing that she might leave them, if he continued to force his attentions on her,
held his peace.  The thought of losing even the sight of her about the house wrung his heart.
He could not bear to contemplate the long winter days uncheered by her gentle presence.

It was nearly Thanksgiving.  The first snow had come and covered up everything that was bare
and unsightly in the landscape with its beautiful mantle of white, and Anna, sitting by the
window, dropped the stocking she was darning to press the bitter tears back to her eyes.

The snow had but one thought for her.  She saw it falling, falling soft and feathery on a baby's
grave in the Episcopal Cemetery at Somerville. She shivered; it was as if the flakes were falling
on her own warm flesh.

If she could but go to that little grave and lie down among the feathery flakes and forget
it all, it would be so much easier than this eternal struggle to live.  What had life in store
for her?  There was the daily drudgery, years and years of it, and always the crushing knowledge
of injustice.

She knew how it would be.  Scandal would track her down--put a price on her head; these people
who had given her a home would hear, and what would all her months of faithful service avail?

"Is this true?" she already heard the Squire say in imagination, and she should have to answer:
"Yes"--and there would be the open door and the finger pointing to her to go.

She heard the Squire's familiar step on the stair; unconsciously, she crouched lower; had he
come to tell her to go?

But the Squire came in whistling, a picture of homely contentment, hands in pocket, smiling
jovially.  She knew there must be no telltale tears on her cheeks, even if her heart was crying
out in the cold and snow.  She knew the bitterness of being denied the comfort of tears. It
was but one of the hideous train of horrors that pursued a woman in her position.

She forced them back and met the Squire with a smile that was all the sweeter for the effort.

"Here's your chair, Squire, all ready waiting for you, and the only thing you want to make
you perfectly happy--is--guess?"  She held out his old corncob pipe, filled to perfection.

"I declare, Anna, you are just spoiling me, and some day you'll be going off and getting married
to some of these young fellows 'round here, and where will I be then?"

"You need have no fears on that score," she said, struggling to maintain a smile.

"Well, well, that's what girls always say, but I don't know what we'll do without you.  How
long have you been with us, now?"

"Let me see," counting on her fingers: "just six months."

"So it is, my dear.  Well, I hope it will be six years before you think of leaving us.  And,
Anna, while we are talking, I like to say to you that I have felt pretty mean more than once
about the way I treated you that first day you come."

"Pray, do not mention it, Squire.  Your kindness since has quite made me forget that you hesitated
to take an utter stranger into your household."

"That was it, my dear--an utter stranger--and you cannot really blame me; here was Looizy and
Kate and I was asked to take into the house with them a young woman whom I had never set eyes
on before; it seemed to me a trifle risky, but you've proved that I was wrong, my dear, and
I'll admit it."

The girl dropped the stocking she was mending; her trembling hand refused to support even the
pretense of work.  Outside the snow was falling just as it was falling, perhaps, on the little
grave where all her youth and hope were buried.

The thought gave her courage to speak, though the pale lips struggled pitifully to frame the words.

"Squire, suppose that when I came to you that day last June you had been right--I am only saying
this for the sake of argument, Squire--but suppose that I had been a deceived girl, that I
had come here to begin all over again; to live down the injustice, the scandal and all the
other things that unfortunate woman have to live down, would you still have felt the same?"

"Why, Anna, I never heard you talk like this before; of course I should have felt the same;
if a commandment is broke, it's broke; nothing can alter that, can it?"

"But, Squire, is there no mercy, no chance held out to the woman who has been unfortunate?"

"Anna, these arguments don't sound well from a proper behaving young woman like you.  I know
it's the fashion nowadays for good women to talk about mercy to their fallen sisters, but it's
a mistake.  When a woman falls, she loses her right to respect, and that's the end of it."

She turned her face to the storm and the softly falling flakes were no whiter than her face.

As Anna turned to leave the room on some pretext, she saw Kate coming in with a huge bunch
of Jacqueminot roses in her hand.  Of course, Sanderson had sent them.  The perfume of them
sickened Anna, as the odor of a charnel house might have done.   She tried to smile bravely
at Kate, who smiled back triumphantly as she went in to show her uncle the flowers.  But the
sight of them was like the turning of a knife in a festering wound.

Anna made her way to the kitchen.  Dave was sitting there smoking. Anna found strength and
sustenance in his mere presence, though she did not say a word to him, but he was such a faithful
soul.  Good, honest Dave.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE VILLAGE GOSSIP SNIFFS SCANDAL.

  "Flavia, most tender of her own good name,
  Is rather careless of her sister's fame!
  Her superfluity the poor supplies,
  But if she touch a character it dies."--Cowper.

It was characteristic of Marthy Perkins and her continual pursuit of pleasure, that she should
wade through snowdrifts to Squire Bartlett's and ask for a lift in his sleigh.  The Squire's
family were going to a surprise party to be given to one of the neighbor's, and Marthy was
as determined about going as a debutante.

She came in, covered with snow, hooded, shawled and coated till she resembled a huge cocoon.
The Squire placed a big armchair for her near the fire, and Marshy sat down, but not without
disdaining Anna's offers to remove her wraps.  She sniffed at Anna--no other word will express
it--and savagely clutched her big old-fashioned muff when Anna would have taken it from her
to dry it of the snow.

The sleighbells jingled merrily as the different parties drove by, singing, whistling, laughing,
on their way to the party.  The church choir, snugly installed in "Doc" Wiggins' sleigh, stopped
at the Squire's to "thaw out," and try a step or two; Rube Whipple, the town constable, giving
them his famous song, "All Bound 'Round with a Woolen String."

Rube was, as usual, the pivot around which the merry-making centered. A few nights before,
burglars had broken into the postoffice and carried off the stamps, and the town constable
was, as usual, the last one to hear of it.  On the night in question, he had spent the evening
at the corner grocery store with a couple of his old pals, the stove answering the purpose
of a rather large bulls-eye, at which they expectorated, with conscientious regularity, from
time to time.  Seth Holcomb, Marthy Perkins' faithful swain, had been of the corner grocery party.

"Well, Constable, hear you and Seth helped keep the stove warm the other night, while thieves
walked off with the postoffice," Marthy announced; "what I'd like to know is, how much bitters,
rheumatism bitters, you had during the evening?"

"Well, Marthy Perkins, you ought to be the last to throw it up to Seth that he's obliged to
spend his evenings round a corner grocery--that's adding insult to injury."

"Insult to injury I reckon can stand, Rube; it's when you add Seth's bitters that it staggers."

But Seth, who never minded Marthy's stings and jibes, only remarked: "The recipy for them bitters
was given to me by a blame good doctor."

"That cuts you out, Wiggins," the Squire said playfully.

"No, I don't care about standing father to Seth's bitters," "Doc" Wiggins remarked, "but I've
tasted worse stuff on a cold night."

"Oh, Seth ain't pertickler about the temperature, when he takes a dose of bitters.  Hot or
cold, it's all the same to him," finished Marthy.

Seth took the opportunity to whisper to her: "You're going to sit next to me in 'Doc' Wiggins'
sleigh to-night, ain't you, Marthy?"

"Indeed I ain't," said the spinster, scornfully tossing her head, "my place will have to be
filled by the bitters-bottle; I am going with the Squire and Mrs. Bartlett."

"Doc" Wiggins' party left in high good humor, the Squire and his party promising to follow
immediately.  Anna ran upstairs to get Mrs. Bartlett's bonnet and cloak, and Marthy, with a
great air of mystery, got up, and, carefully closing the door after the girl, turned to the
Squire and his wife with:

"I've come to tell you something about her."

"Something about Anna?" said the Squire indignantly.

"Oh, no, not about our Anna," protested Mrs. Bartlett: "Why, she is the best kind of a girl;
we are all devoted to her."

"That's just the saddest part of it, I says to myself when I heard. How can I ever make up
my mind to tell them pore, dear Bartletts, who took her in, and has been treating her like
one of their own family ever since?  It will come hard on, them, I sez, but that ought not
to deter me from my duty."

"Look here, Marthy," thundered the Squire, "if you've got anything to say about that girl,
out with it----"

"Well, land sake--you needn't be so touchy; she ain't kin to you, and you might thank your
lucky stars she ain't."

"Well, what is it, Marthy?" interposed Mrs. Bartlett.  "Anna'll be down in a minute."

"Well, you know, I have been sewin' down to Warren Center this last week, and Maria Thomson,
from Belden, was visiting there, and naturally we all got to talking 'bout folks up this way,
and that girl Anna Moore's name was mentioned, and I'm blest if Maria Thomson didn't recognize
her from my description.

"I was telling them 'bout the way she came here last June, pale as a ghost, and how she said
her mother had just died and she'd been sick, and they knew right off who she was."

Marthy loved few things as she did an interested audience.  It was her meat and drink.

"Well, she didn't call herself Moore in Belden, though that was her mother's name--she called
herself Lennox," Marthy grinned.  "She was one of those married ladies who forgot their wedding
rings."

The Squire knit his brows and his jaws came together with a snap; there were tears in Mrs.
Bartlett's eyes.  The gossip looked from one to the other to see the impression her words were
making.

It spurred her on to new efforts.  She positively rolled the words about in delight before
she could utter them.

"Well, the girl's mother, who had been looking worried out of her skin, took sick and died
all of a sudden, and the girl took sick herself very soon afterwards--and what do you think?
A girl baby was born to Mrs. Lennox, but her husband never came near her.  Fortunately, the
baby did not live to embarrass her.  It died, and she packed up and left Belden. That's when
she came here.

"And now," continued the village inquisitor, summing up her terrible evidence, "what are we
to think of a girl called Miss Moore in one town and Mrs. Lennox in the other, with no sign
of a wedding ring and no sign of a husband?  And what are we going to think of that baby? 
It seems to me scandalous."  And she leaned back in her chair and rocked furiously.

The Squire brought his hand down or the table with terrible force, his pleasant face, was distorted
with rage and indignation.

"Just what I always said would come of taking in strange creatures that we knew nothing about.
Do you think that I will have a creature like that in my house with my wife and my niece, polluting
them with her very presence?--out she goes this minute!"

He strode over to the door through which Anna had passed a few moments before, he flung it
open and was about to call when he felt his wife cling frantically to his arm.

"Father, don't do anything in anger that you'll repent of later.  How do you know this is true?
Look how well the girl has acted since she has been here"--and in a lower voice, "you know
that Marthy's given to talking."

The hand on the knob relaxed, a kindly light replaced the anger in his eyes.

"You are right, Looizy, what we've heard is only hearsay, I'll not say a word to the girl till
I know; but to-morrow I am going to Belden and find out the whole story from beginning to end."

Kate and the professor came in laden with wraps, laughing and talking in great glee.  Kate
was going to ride in the sleigh with the professor, and the discovery of a new species of potato-bug
could not have delighted him more.  He was in a most gallant mood, and concluding that this
was the opportunity for making himself agreeable, he undertook to put on Kate's rubbers over
her dainty dancing slippers.

Perhaps it was a glimpse of the cobwebby black silk stocking that ensnared his wits, perhaps
it was the delight of kneeling to Kate even in this humble capacity.  In either case, the result
was equally grotesque; Kate found her dainty feet neatly enclosed in the professor's ungainly
arctics, while he hopelessly contemplated her overshoe and the size of his own foot.

Anna returned with Mrs. Bartlett's bonnet and cloak before the laugh at the professor had subsided.
She adjusted the cloak, tied Mrs. Bartlett's bonnet strings with daughterly care and then turned
to look after the Squire's comfort, but he strode past her to the sleigh with Marthy.  Kate
and the professor called on a cheery "Good-night," but Mrs. Bartlett remained long enough to
take the pretty, sorrowful face in her hands and give it a sweet, motherly kiss.

When the jingling of the sleighbells died away across the snow, Hi offered to read jokes to
Anna from "Pickings from Puck," which he had selected as a Christmas present from Kate, if
she would consent to have supper in the sitting-room, where it was warm and cosy.  Anna began
to pop the corn, and Hi to read the jokes with more effort than he would have expended on the
sawing of a cord of wood.

He bit into an apple.  An expression of perfect contentment illuminated his countenance and
in a voice husky with fruit began: "Oh, here is a lovely one, Anna," and he declaimed, after
the style usually employed by students of the first reader.

"Weary Raggles: 'Say, Ragsy, w'y don't you ask 'em for something to eat in dat house.  Is you
afraid of de dog?'"

"Ragsy Reagan: 'No, I a-i-n-t 'fraid of the dog, but me pants is frayed of him.'"

"Ha, ha, ha--say, Anna, that's the funniest thing I ever did see.  The tramp wasn't frayed
of him, but his pants was 'fraid of him.  Gee, ain't that a funny joke?  And say, Anna, there's
a picture with his clothes all torn."

Hi was fairly convulsed; he read till the tears rolled down his cheeks. "'Pickin's from Puck,
the funniest book ever wrote.'  Here's another, Anna."

"'A p-o-o-r old man was sunstruck on Broadway this morning.  His son struck him for five dollars.'"
Hi sat pondering over it for a full minute, then he burst into a loud guffaw that continued
so long and uproariously that neither heard the continued rapping on the front door.

"Hi, some one is knocking on the front door.  Do go and see who it is."

"O! let 'em knock, Anna; don't let's break up our party for strangers."

"Well, Hi, I'll have to go myself," and she laid down the corn-popper, but the boy got up grumbling,
lurched to the door and let in Lennox Sanderson.

"'Tain't nobody at home, Mr. Sanderson," said Hi, inhospitably blocking the way.  Anna had
crouched over the fire, as if to obliterate herself.

"Here, Hi, you take this and go out and hold my horse; he's mettlesome as the deuce this cold
weather.  I want to get warm before I go to Putnam's."

Hi put on his muffler, mits and cap--each with a favorite "swear word," such as "ding it,"
"dum it," "darn it."  Nevertheless he wisely concluded to take the half dollar from him and
save it for the spring crop of circuses.

Anna started to leave the room, but Sanderson's peremptory "Stay here, I've got to talk to
you," detained her.

They looked into each other's faces--these two, who but a few short months ago had been all
in all to each other--and the dead fire was not colder than their looks.

"Well, Anna," he said sneeringly, "what's your game?  You've been hanging about here ever since
I came to the neighborhood.  How much do you want to go away?"

"Nothing that you could give me, Lennox Sanderson.  My only wish is that I might be spared
the sight of you."

"Don't beat around the bush, Anna; is it money, or what?  You are not foolish enough to try
to compel me to marry you?"

"Nothing could be further from my mind.  I did think once of compelling you to right the wrong
you have done me, but that is past.  It is buried in the grave with my child."

"Then the child is dead?"  He came over to the fireplace where she stood, but she drew away
from him.

"You have nothing to fear from me, Lennox Sanderson.  The love I felt once is dead, and I have
no feeling for you now but contempt."

"You need not rub it in like that, Anna.  I was perfectly willing to do the square thing by
you always, but you flared up, went away, and Heaven only knew what became of you.  It's bad
enough to have things made unpleasant for me in Boston on your account without having you queering
my plans here."

"Boston--I never told anyone in Boston."

"No, but that row got into the papers about Langdon and the Tremonts cut me."

"Hush," said Anna, as a spasm of pain crossed her face: "I never wish you to refer to my past
life again."

"Indeed, Anna, I am only too anxious to do the right thing by you, even now.  If you will go
away, I will give you what you want, if you don't intend to interfere between Kate and me."

"Are you sure that Kate is in earnest?  You know that the Squire intends her to marry Dave."

"I shall have no difficulty in preventing that if you don't interfere."

She did not answer.  She was again considering the same old question that she had thrashed
out a thousand times--should she tell Kate?  How would she take it?  Would the tragedy of her
life be regarded as a little wild-oat sowing on the part of Sanderson and her own eternal disgrace?

The man was in no humor for her silence.  He grasped her roughly by the arm, and his voice
was raised loud in angry protest.  "Tell me--do you, or do you not intend to interfere?"

In the excitement of the moment neither heard the outer door open, and neither heard David
enter.  He stood in his quiet way, looking from one to the other.  Sanderson's angry question
died away in some foolish commonplace, but David had heard and Anna and Sanderson knew it.

CHAPTER XV.

DAVID CONFESSES HIS LOVE.

Sanderson, recovering his self-possession almost immediately, drawled out:

"Glad to see you, Dave.  Came over thinking I might be in time to go over to Putnam's with
your people.  They had gone, so I stopped long enough to get warm.  I must be going now.  Good-night,
Miss--Miss"--(he seemed, to have great difficulty in recalling the name) "Moore."

David paid no attention to him; his eyes were riveted on Anna, who had changed color and was
now like ivory flushing into life.  She trembled and fell to her knees, making a pretense of
gathering up her knitting that had fallen.

"What brought Sanderson here, Anna?  Is he anything to you--are you anything to him?"

She tried to assume a playful lightness, but it failed dismally.  It was all her pallid lips
could do to frame the words: "Why, Mr. David, what a curious question!  What possible interest
could the 'catch' of the neighborhood have in your father's servant?"

The suggestion of flippancy that her words contained irritated the grave, quiet man as few
things could have done.  He turned from her and would have left the room, but she detained him.

"I am sorry I wounded you, Mr. David, but, indeed, you have no right to ask."

"I know it, Anna, and you won't give me the right; but how dared that cub Sanderson speak to
you in that way?"  He caught her hand, and unconsciously wrung it till she cried out in pain.
"Forgive me, dear, I would not hurt you for the world; but that man's manner toward you makes
me wild."

She looked up at him from beneath her long, dark lashes; he thought her eyes were like the
glow of forest fires burning through brushwood.  "We will never think of him again, Mr. David.
I assure you that I am no more to Mr. Sanderson than he is to me, and that is--nothing."

"Thank you for those words, Anna.  I cannot tell you how happy they make me.  But I do not
understand you at all.  Even a countryman like me can see that you have never been used to
our rough way of living; you were never born to this kind of thing, and yet when that man Sanderson
looks at you or talks to you, there is always an undertone of contempt in his look, his words."

She sank wearily into an armchair.  It seemed to her that her limit of endurance had been reached,
but he, taking her silence for acquiescence, lost no time in following up what he fondly hoped
might be an advantage.  "I did not go to the Putnams to-night, Anna, because you were not going,
and there is no enjoyment for me when you are not there."

"Mr. David, if you continue to talk to me like this I shall have to leave this house."

"Tell me, Anna," he said so gravely that the woman beside him knew that life and death were
balanced with her words: "tell me, when you said that day last autumn by the well that you
never intended to marry, was it just a girl's coquetry or was there some deeper reason for
your saying so?"

She could not face the love in those honest eyes and answer as her conscience prompted.  She
was tired, so tired of the struggle, what would she not have given to rest here in the shelter
of this perfect love and trust, but it was not for her.

"Mr. David," she said, looking straight before her with wide, unseeing eyes; "I can be no man's
wife."

He knew from the lines of suffering written deep on the pale young face, that maiden coquetry
had not inspired her to speak thus; but word for word, it had been wrung from out of the depths
of a troubled soul.

"Anna!" cried David, in mingled astonishment and pain.  But Anna only turned mutely toward
him with an imploring look.  She stretched out her hands to him, as if trying to tell him more.
But words failed her. Her tears overcame her and she fled, sobbing, to her room.  All the way
up the winding night of stairs, David could hear her anguished moans. He would have followed
her, but Hi burst into the room, stamping the snow from his boots.  He shoved in the front
door as if he had been an invading army.  He unwound his muffler and cast it from him as if
he had a grudge against it, as he proceeded to deliver himself of his wrongs.

"If there's any more visitors coming to the house to-night that wants their horses held, they
can do it themselves, for I am going to have my supper."  David made no reply, but went to
his own room to brood over the day's events.  And so Anna was spared any further talk with
David that night; a circumstance for which she was devoutly thankful.

The next day the snow was deeper by a foot, but this did not deter the Squire from making his
proposed trip to Belden.  He started immediately after breakfast, prepared to sift matters
to the bottom.

An air of tension and anxiety pervaded the household all that long, miserable day.  Anna was
tortured with doubts.  Should she slip away quietly without telling, or should she make her
humiliating confession to Kate?  Mrs. Bartlett, who knew the object of her husband's errand,
could not control her nerves.  She knew intuitively "that something was going to happen," as
the good soul put it to herself.

Altogether it was one of those nerve-wracking days that come from time to time in the best
regulated households, apparently for no other purpose but to prove the fact that a solitary
existence is not necessarily the most unhappy.

Mrs. Bartlett, for the first time in her life, was worried about Dave. He was moody and morose,
even to her, his sworn friend and ally, with whom he had never had a word's difference.  He
had gone off that morning shortly after the Squire left the house; and his mother, watching
him carefully at breakfast, noticed that he had shoved away his plate with the food untasted.

A fatal symptom to the ever-watchful maternal eye.

Kate felt sulky because her aunt and uncle had been urging her to marry Dave, and apparently
Dave had no affection for her beyond that of a cousin, the situation irritating her in the extreme.

"Aunt Louisa, what is the matter with every one?" she said, flouncing into the kitchen.  "Something
seems to have jarred the family nerves. Here is uncle off on some mysterious business, Dave
goes off in the snow in a tantrum, and you look as if you had just buried your last friend."
And the young lady left the room as suddenly as she entered it.

"It does feel as if trouble was brewing," Mrs. Bartlett admitted to Anna, with a gloomy shake
of the head.  "I'm getting that worried about Dave, he's been away all day, and it's not usual
for him to stay away like this."  Her voice broke a little, and she left the room hurriedly.

He came in almost immediately, stamping the snow from his boots and looking twice as savage
as when he went away.

"Mrs. Bartlett had been worrying about you all day, Mr. David," Anna said as she turned from
the dresser with her arms full of plates.

"And did you care, Anna, that I was not here?"  He gave her the appealing glance of a great
mastiff who hopes for a friendly pat on the head.

"My feelings on the subject can be of no interest to you," she answered with chilling decision.

"All right," and he went to the hat-rack to get his muffler and cap, preparatory to again facing
the storm.

The snow had been falling steadily all day.  Drifting almost to the height of the kitchen window,
it whirled about the house and beat against the window panes with a muffled sound that was
inexpressibly dreary to the girl, who felt herself the center of all this pitiful human contention.

"David, David; where have you been all day, and where are you going now?"  His mother looked
at his gray, haggard face and tried to guess his hidden trouble, the first he had ever kept
from her.

"Mother, I am not a child, and you can't expect me to hang about the stove like a cat, all
my life."  It was his first harsh word to her and she shrank before it as if it had been a
blow.  David, her boy, to speak to her like that!  She turned quickly away to hide the tears,
the first she had ever shed on his account.

"Here, Anna," she said, struggling to recover her composure, "take this bucket and get it filled
for me, please."

The girl reached for her cloak that hung on a peg near the door.

"No, Anna, you shall not go out for water a night like this; it's not the work for you to do."
David had sprung forward and caught the bucket from her hand and plunged with it into the storm.
Kate's quick eyes caught the expression of David's face--while Mrs. Bartlett only heard his
words.  She gave Anna a searching look as she said: "So it is you whom David loves."  At last
Kate understood the secret of Anna's distracted face--and at last the mother understood the
secret of her boy's moodiness--he loved Anna.  And her heart was filled with bitterness and
anger at the very thought; she had taken her boy, this stranger, with whom the tongue of scandal
was busy.  The kindly, gentle, old face lost all its sweetness; jealous anger filled it with
ugly lines.  Turning to Anna she said:

"It would have been better for all of us if we had not taken you in that day to break up our
home with your mischief."

Anna was cut to the quick.  "Oh, Mrs. Bartlett, please do not say that; I will go away as soon
as you like, but it is not with my consent that David has these foolish fancies about me."

"And do you mean to say that you have never encouraged him," indignantly demanded the irate
mother, who with true feminine inconsistency would not have her boy's affections go begging,
even while she scorned the object of it.

"Encouraged him?  I have begged, entreated him to let me alone; I do not want his love."

An angry sparrow defending her brood could not have been more indignantly demonstrative than
this gentle old lady.

"And isn't he good enough for you, Miss?" she asked in a voice that shook with wrath.

"Dear Mrs. Bartlett, would you have me take his love and return it?"

"No, no; that would never do!" and the inconsistent old soul rocked herself to and fro in an
agony of despair.

Anna did not resent Mrs. Bartlett's indignation, unjust though it was; she knew how blind good
mothers could be when the happiness of their children is at stake.  She felt only pity for
her and remembered only her kindness.  So slipping down on her knees beside the old lady's
chair, she took the toil-worn old hands in her own and said:

"Do not think hardly of me, Mrs. Bartlett.  You have been so good--and when I am gone, I want
you to think of me with affection.  I will go away, and all this trouble will straighten itself
out, and you will forget that I ever caused you a moment's pain."

Dave came in with the bucket of water that had caused the little squall and prevented his mother
from replying, but the hard lines had relaxed in the good old face.  She was again "mother"
whom they all knew and loved.  Sanderson followed close after David; he had just come from
Boston, he said, and inquired for Kate with a simple directness that left no doubt as to whom
he had come to see.

It is an indisputable law of the eternal feminine for all women to flaunt a conquest in the
face of the man who had declined their affection.  Kate was not in love with her cousin David,
but she was devoutly thankful to Providence that there was a Lennox Sanderson to flaunt before
him in the capacity of tame cat, and prove that he "was not the only man in the world," as
she put it to herself.

Therefore when Lennox Sanderson handed her a magnificent bunch of Jacqueminot roses that he
had brought her from Boston, Kate was not at all backward in rewarding Sanderson with her graciousness.

"How beautiful they are, Mr. Sanderson; it was so good of you."

"You make me very happy by taking them," he answered with a wealth of meaning.

Anna, who had gone to the storeroom for some apples, after her reconciliation with Mrs. Bartlett,
returned to find Sanderson talking earnestly to Kate by the window.  Kate held up the roses
for Anna to smell.  "Aren't they lovely, Anna?  There is nothing like roses for taking the
edge off a snowstorm."

Anna was forced to go through the farce of admiring them, while Sanderson looked on with nicely
concealed amusement.

"Well, what do you think of them, Anna?" said Kate, disappointed that she made no comment.

"The best thing about roses, speaking generally, Miss Kate, is that they fade quickly and do
not embarrass one by outliving the little affairs in which they have played a part."  She returned
Sanderson's languid glance in a way that made him quail.

"That is quite true," said Kate, being in the humor for a little cynicism.  "What a pity that
love letters can't be constructed on the same principle."

Sanderson did not feel particularly at ease while these two young women served and returned
cynicism; he was accordingly much relieved when Mrs. Bartlett and Anna both left the room,
intent on the solemn ceremony of opening a new supply of preserved peaches.

"Kate, did you mean what you just said to that girl?" Sanderson asked when they were alone.

"What did I say?  Oh, yes, about the love letters.  Well, what difference does it make whether
I meant it or not?"

"It makes all the difference in the world to me, Kate."  He read refusal in the big blue eyes,
and he made haste to plead his cause before she could say anything.

"Don't answer yet, Kate; don't give me my life-sentence," he said playfully, taking her hand.
"Think it over; take as long as you like. Hope with you is better than certainty with any other
woman."

Professor Sterling, who had been to a neighboring town on business for the past two or three
days, walked into the middle of this little tableau in time to hear the last sentence.  Kate
and Sanderson had failed to hear him, partly because he had neglected to remove his overshoes,
and partly because they were deeply engrossed with each other.

Though his rival's declaration, which he had every reason to suppose would be accepted, was
the death blow to his hopes, yet he unselfishly stepped out into the snow, waited five minutes
by his watch--a liberal allowance for an acceptance, he considered--and then rapped loud and
theatrically before entering a second time.  Could unselfishness go further?

Kate and Sanderson had no other opportunity for confidential talk that evening.

They were barely seated about the supper table, when there came a tremendous rapping at the
door, and Marthy Perkins came in, half frozen.  For once her voluble tongue was silenced. 
She retailed no gossip while submitting to the friendly ministrations of Mrs. Bartlett and
Anna, who chafed her hands, gave her hot tea and thawed her back to life--and gossip.

"Is the Squire back yet?" asked Marthy with returning warmth.  "Land sakes, what can be keeping
him?  Heard him say last night that he intended going away this morning, and thought he might
have come back."

"With news?" naively asked Sanderson.

"Why, yes.  I did think it was likely that he might have gathered up something interesting,
away a whole day."  Every one laughed but Mrs. Bartlett.  She alone knew the object of her
husband's quest.

"Your father's not likely to be back to-night--do you think so, Dave?" she asked her son, more
by way of drawing him out than in the hope of getting any real information.

"No, I do not think it is likely, mother," he answered.

"Good land! and I nearly froze to death getting here!" Marthy said in an aside to Mrs. Bartlett.
"I tell you, Looizy, there is nothing like suspense for wearing you out.  I couldn't get a
lick of sewing done to-day, waiting for Amasy to get in with the news."

"Hallo! hallo!  Let us in quick--here we are, me and the Squire--most froze!  Hallo, hallo"--The
rest of Hi's remarks were a series of whoops.

Every one rose from the table, Mrs. Bartlett pale with apprehension. Marthy flushed with delight.
She was not to be balked of her prey. The Squire was here with the news.

CHAPTER XVI.

ALONE IN THE SNOW.

  "The cold winds swept the mountain-height,
    And pathless was the dreary wild,
  And mid the cheerless hours of night
    A mother wandered with her child:
  As through the drifting snows she pressed,
    The babe was sleeping on her breast."--Seba Smith.

The head of the house was home from his mysterious errand, the real object of which was unknown
to all but Marthy and his wife.

Kate unwound his muffler and took his cap; his wife assured him that she had been worried to
death about him all day; the men inquired solicitously about his journey--how had he stood
the cold--and Anna made ready his place at the table.  But neither this domestic adulation
nor the atmosphere of warmth and affection awaiting him at his own fireside served for a moment
to turn him from the wanton brutality that he was pleased to dignify by the name of duty.

Anna could not help feeling the "snub," and David, whose eyes always followed Anna, saw it
before the others.  "Father," said he, "what's the matter, you don't speak to Anna."

"I don't want to speak to her.  I don't want to look at her.  I don't want anything to do with
her," replied the Squire.  Every one except Martha and Mrs. Bartlett was startled by this blunt,
almost brutal outburst.

"I am glad you are all here, the more the better: Marthy, Professor, Mr. Sanderson, glad to
see you and all the home folks"--he had a word, a nod, a pat on the back for every one but
Anna, and though she sought more than one opportunity to speak to him, he deliberately avoided her.

His wife, who knew all the varying weathers of his temper was using all her small stock of
diplomacy to get him to eat his supper.  "When in doubt about a man, feed him," had been Louisa
Bartlett's unfailing rule for the last thirty years.  "Here, Amasy, sit down in your place
that Anna has fixed for you.  You can talk after you've had your tea.  Anna, please make the
Squire some fresh tea.  I'm afraid this is a little cool."

"She need not make my tea, now, or on any future occasion--her days of service in my family
are done for."  And he hammered the table with his clenched fist.

Anna closed her eyes; it had come at last; she had always known that it was only a question
of time.

The rest looked at the Squire dumbfounded.  Ah, that is, but Marthy. She was licking her lips
in delightful anticipation--with much the same expression as a cat would regard an uncaged canary.

"Why, father, what do you mean?" asked David in amazement.  He had heard no rumor of why his
father had gone to Belden.

"Now, listen, all of you," and again he thundered on the table with his fist.  "Last summer
I was persuaded, against my will, to take a strange woman into my house.  I found out to-day
that my judgment then was right.  I have been imposed on--she is an imposter, an adventuress."

"Amasy, Amasy, don't be so hard on her," pleaded his wife.  But the Squire had the true huntsman's
instinct--when he went out to hunt, he went out to kill.

"The time has come," he continued, raising his voice and ignoring his wife's pleading, "when
this home is better without her."

Anna had already begun her preparation to go.  She took her cloak down from its peg and wrapped
it about her without a word.

"Father, if Anna goes, I go with her," and David rose to his feet, the very incarnation of
wrath, and strode over to where Anna stood apart from the rest.  He put his arm about her protectingly,
and stood there defiant of them all.

"David, you must be mad.  What, you, a son of mine, defy your father here in the presence of
your friends for that--adventuress?"

"Father, take back that word about Anna.  A better woman never lived. You--who call yourself
a Christian--would you send away a friendless girl a night like this?  And for what reason?
Because a few old cats have been gossiping about her.  It is unworthy of you, father; I would
not have believed it."

"So you have appointed yourself her champion, sir.  No doubt she has been trying her arts on
you.  Don't be a fool, David; stand aside, if she wants to go, let her; women like her can
look out for themselves; let her go."

"Don't make me forget, sir, that you are my father.  I refuse absolutely to hear the woman
I love spoken of in this way."

The rest looked on in painful silence; they seemed to be deprived of the power of speech or
action by the Squire's vehemence; the wind howled about the house fitfully, and was still,
then resumed its wailing grief.

"And you stand there and defy me for that woman in the presence of Kate, to whom you are as
good as betrothed?"

"No, no; there is no question of an engagement between David and me, and there never can be,"
said Kate, not knowing in the least what to make of the turn that things had taken.

David continued to stand with his arm about Anna.  He had heard the Belden gossip--a wealthy
young man from Boston had been attentive to her, then left the place; jilted her, some said;
been refused by her, said others.  It did not make a bit of difference to David which version
was true; he was ready to stand by Anna in the face of a thousand gossips.  This was just his
father's brutal way of upholding what he was pleased to term his authority.

"What do you know about her, David?" reiterated the Squire.  "I heard reports, but like you,
I would not believe them till I had investigated them fully.  Ask her if she has not been the
mother of an illegitimate child, who is now buried in the Episcopal cemetery at Belden--ask
her if she was not known there under the name of Mrs. Lennox?"

"It is true," said the girl, raising her head, "that I was known as Mrs. Lennox.  It is true
that I have a child buried in Belden----"

David's arm fell from her, he buried his face in his hands and groaned. Anna opened the door,
a whirling gust flared the lamps and drove a skurrying cloud of snowflakes within, yet not
one hand was raised to detain her.  She swayed uncertain for a moment on the threshold, then
turned to them: "You have hunted me down, you have found out that I have been a mother, that
I am without the protection of a husband's name, and that was enough for you--your duty stopped
at the scandal. Why did you not find out that I was a young, inexperienced girl who was betrayed
by a mock marriage--that I thought myself an honorable wife--why should your duty stop in hunting
down a defenseless girl while the man who ruined her life sits there, a welcome guest in your
house to-night?"

She was gone--David, who had been stunned by his father's words, ran after her, but the whirling
flakes had hidden every trace of her, and the howling wind drove back his cry of "Anna, Anna!
come back!"

Anna did not feel the cold after closing the door between her and the Squire's family; the
white flame of her wrath seemed to burn up the blood in her veins, as she plunged through the
snowdrifts, unconscious of the cold and storm.  She had no words in which to formulate her
fury at the indignity of her treatment.  Her native sweetness, for the moment, had been extinguished
and she was but the incarnation of wronged womanhood, crying aloud to high Heaven for justice.

The blood throbbed at her brain and the quickened circulation warmed her till she loosened
the cloak at her throat and wondered, in a dazed sort of way, why she had put it on on such
a stifling night.  Then she remembered the snow and eagerly uplifted her flushed cheeks that
the falling flakes might cool them.

But of the icy grip of the storm she was wholly unconscious.  There was a mad exhilaration
in facing the wild elements on such a night, the exertion of forcing through the storm chimed
in with her mood; each snowdrift through which she fought her way was so much cruel injustice
beaten down.  She felt that she had the strength and courage to walk to the end of the earth
and she went on and on, never thinking of the storm, or her destination, or where she would
rest that night.  Her head felt light, as if she had been drinking wine, and more than once
she stopped to mop the perspiration from her forehead.  How absurd for the snow to fall on
such a sultry night, and foolish of those people who had turned her out to die, thinking it
was cold--the thermometer must be 100.  She paused to get her breath; a blast of icy wind caught
her cape, and almost succeeded in robbing her of it, and the chill wrestled with the fever
that was consuming her, and she realized for the first time that it was cold.

"Well, what next?" she asked herself, throwing back her head and unconsciously assuming the
attitude of a creature brought to bay but still unconquered.

"What next?" She repeated it with the dull despair of one who has nothing further to fear in
the way of suffering.  The Fates had spent themselves on her, she no longer had the power to
respond.  Suppose she should become lost in a snowdrift?  "Well, what did it matter?"

Then came one of those unaccountable clearings of the mental vision that nature seems to reserve
for the final chapter.  Her quickened brain grasped the tragedy of her life as it never had
before.  She saw it with impersonal eyes.  Anna Moore was a stranger on whose case she could
sit with unbiased judgment.  Her mind swung back to the football game in the golden autumn
eighteen months ago, and she heard the cheers and saw the swarms of eager, upturned faces and
the dots of blue and crimson, like flowers, in a great waving field.  What a panorama of life,
and force, and struggle it had been!  How typical of life, and the end--but no, the end was
not yet; there must be some justice in life, some law of compensation.  God must hear at last!

The wind came tearing down from, the pine forest, surging through the hills till it became
a roar.  Ah, it had sounded like that at the game. They had called "Rah, Rah Sanderson" till
they were hoarse, "Sanderson, Rah!  Sander-son!  Rah!  Rah!"  The crackling forest seemed to
have gone mad with the echo of his name.  It had become the keynote of the wind.  Rah!  Rah!
Sanderson!

"You can't escape him even in death" something seemed to whisper in her ear.  "Ha-ha, Sanderson,
San-der-son."  She put her hands to her ears to shut out the hateful sound, but she heard it,
like the wail of a lost soul; this time faint and far off: Sander-son--San-der-son.  It was
above her in the groaning, creaking branches of the trees, in the falling snow, in the whipping
wind, the mockery would not be stilled.

Ha, ha, ha, ha, howled the wind, then sinking to a sigh, San-der-son--San-der-son.

The cold had begun to strike into the marrow.  She moved as if her limbs were weighted.  There
was a mist gathering before her eyes, and she put up her hand and tried to brush it away, but
it remained.  She felt as if she were carrying something heavy in her arms and as she walked
it grew heavier and heavier.  To her wandering mind it took a pitifully familiar shape.  Ah,
yes!  She knew what it was now; it was the baby, and she must not let it get cold.  She must
cover it with her cape and press it close to her bosom to keep it warm, but it was so far,
so far, and it was getting heavier every moment.

And the wind continued to wail its dirge of "San-der-son, San-der-son." She went through the
motion of covering up the baby's head; she did not want it to waken and hear that awful cry.
She lifted up her empty arms and lowered her head to soothe the imaginary baby with a kiss,
and was shocked to feel how cold its little cheek had grown.  She hurried on and on.  She would
beg the Squire to let his wife take it in for just a minute, to warm it.  She would not ask
to come in herself, but the baby--no one would be so cruel as to refuse her that.  It would
die out here in the cold and the storm.  It was so cruel, so hard to be wandering about on
a night like this with the baby.  Her eyes began to fill with tears, and her lower lip to quiver,
but she plodded on, sometimes gaining a few steps and then retracing them, but always with
the same instinct that had spurred her on to efforts beyond her strength, and this done, she
had no further concern for herself.  Her body especially, where the cape did not protect it
against the blast, was freezing, shivering, aching all over.  A latent consciousness began
to dawn as the dread presence of death drew nearer; some intuitive effort of preservation asserted
itself, and she kept repeating over and over: "I must not give up.  I must not give up."

Presently the scene began to change, and the white formless world about her began to assume
definite shape.  She had seen it all before, the bare trees pointing their naked branches upward,
the fringe of willows, the smooth, glassy sheet of water that was partly frozen and partly
undulating toward the southern shore.  The familiarity of it all began to haunt her.  Had she
dreamed it--was she dreaming now?  Perhaps it was only a dream after all!  Then, as if in a
wave of clear thought, she remembered it all.  It was the lake, and she had been there with
the Sunday school children last summer on their picnic.

It came to her like a solution of all her troubles; it was so placid, so still, so cold.  A
moment and all would be forgotten.  She stood with one foot on the creaking ice.  It was but
to walk a dozen steps to the place where the ice was but a crash of crystal and that would
end it all.  She was so weary of the eternal strife of things, she was so glad to lay down
the burden under which her back was bending to the point of breaking.

And yet, there was the primitive instinct of self-preservation combating her inclination, urging
her on to make one more final effort. Back and forth, through the snow about the lake she wandered;
without being able to decide.  Her strength was fast ebbing.  Which--which, should it be? 
"God have mercy!" she cried, and fell unconscious.

CHAPTER XVII.

THE NIGHT IN THE SNOWSTORM.

All through that long, wild night David searched and shouted, to find only snow and silence.

Through the darkness and the falling flakes he could not see more than a foot ahead, and when
he would stumble over a stone or the fallen trunk of a tree, he would stoop down and search
through the drifts with his bare hands, thinking perhaps that she might have fallen, and not
finding her, he would again take up his fruitless search, while cold fear gnawed at his heart.

At home in the warm farm house, sat the Squire who had done his duty. The consciousness of
having done it, however, did not fill him with that cheerful glow of righteousness that is
the reward of a good conscience--on the contrary, he felt small.  It might have been imagination,
but he felt, somehow, as if his wife and Kate were shunning him.  Once he had tried to take
his wife's hand as she stood with her face pressed to the window trying to see if she could
make out the dim outline of David returning with Anna, but she withdrew her hand impatiently
as she had never done in the thirty years of their married life.  Amasy's hardness was a thing
no longer to be condoned.

Furthermore, when the clock had struck eleven and then twelve, and yet no sign of David or
Anna, the Squire had reached for his fur cap and announced his intention of "going to look
for 'em."  But like the proverbial worm, the wife of his bosom had turned, and with all the
determination of a white rabbit she announced:

"If I was you, Amasy, I'd stay to hum; seems as if you had made almost enough trouble for one
day."  With the old habit of authority, strong as ever, he looked at the worm, but there was
a light in its eyes that warned him as a danger signal.

They were alone together, the Squire and his wife, and each was alone in sorrow, the yoke of
severity she had bowed beneath for thirty years uncomplainingly galled to-night.  It had sent
her boy out into the storm--perhaps to his death.  There was little love in her heart for Amasy.

He tried to think that he had only done his duty, that David and Anna would come back, and
that, in the meantime, Louisa was less a comfort to him, in his trouble, than she had ever
been before.  It was, of course, his trouble; it never occurred to him that Louisa's heart
might have been breaking on its own account.

The Squire found that duty was a cold comforter as the wretched hours wore on.

Sanderson had slunk from the house without a word immediately after Anna's departure.  In the
general upheaval no one missed him, and when they did it was too late for them to enjoy the
comfort of shifting the blame to his guilty shoulders.

The professor followed Kate with the mute sympathy of a faithful dog; he did not dare attempt
to comfort her.  The sight of a woman in tears unnerved him; he would not have dared to intrude
on her grief; he could only wait patiently for some circumstance to arise in which he could
be of assistance.  In the meantime he did the only practical thing within his power--he went
about from time to time, poked the fires and put on coal.

Marthy would have liked to discuss the iniquity of Lennox Sanderson with any one--it was a
subject on which she could have spent hours--but no one seemed inclined to divert Marthy conversationally.
In fact, her popularity was not greater that night in the household than that of the Squire.
She spent her time in running from room to room, exclaiming hysterically:

"Land sakes!  Ain't it dreadful?"

The tension grew as time wore on without developments of any kind, the waiting with the haunting
fear of the worst grew harder to bear than absolute calamity.

Toward five o'clock the Squire announced his intention of going out and continuing the search,
and this time no one objected.  In fact, Mrs. Bartlett, Kate and the professor insisted on
accompanying him and Marthy decided to go, too, not only that she might be able to say she
was on hand in case of interesting developments, but because she was afraid to be left in the
house alone.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

Toward morning, David, spent and haggard, wandered into a little maple-sugar shed that belonged
to one of the neighbors.  Smoke was coming out of the chimney, and David entered, hoping that
Anna might have found here a refuge.

He was quickly undeceived, however, for Lennox Sanderson stood by the hearth warming his hands.
The men glared at each other with the instinctive fierceness of panthers.  Not a word was spoken;
each knew that the language of fists could be the only medium of communication between them;
and each was anxious to have his say out.

The men faced each other in silence, the flickering glare of the firelight painting grotesque
expressions on their set faces.  David's greater bulk loomed unnaturally large in the uncertain
light, while every trained muscle of Sanderson's athletic body was on the alert.

It was the world old struggle between patrician and proletarian.

Sanderson was an all-round athlete and a boxer of no mean order.  This was not his first battle.
His quick eye showed him from David's awkward attitude, that his opponent was in no way his
equal from a scientific standpoint.  He looked for the easy victory that science, nine times
out of ten, can wrest from unskilled brute force.

For, perhaps, half a minute the combatants stood thus.

Then, with lowered head and outstretched arms, David rushed in.

Sanderson side-stepped, avoiding the on-set.  Before David could recover himself, the other
had sent his left fist crashing into the country-man's face.

The blow was delivered with all the trained force the athlete possessed and sent David reeling
against the rough wall of the house.

Such a blow would have ended the fight then and there for an ordinary man; but it only served
to rouse David's sluggish blood to white heat.

Again he rushed.

This time he was more successful.

True, Sanderson partially succeeded in avoiding the sledge-hammer fist, though it missed his
head, it struck glancingly on the left shoulder. numbing for the moment the whole arm.  Sanderson
countered as the blow fell, by bringing his right arm up with all his force and striking David
on the face.  He sank to his knees, like a wounded bull, but was on his feet again before Sanderson
could follow up his advantage.

David, heedless of the pain and fast flowing blood, rushed a third time, catching Sanderson
in a corner of the room whence he could not escape.

In an instant, the two were locked in a death-like grip.

To and fro they reeled.  No sound could be heard save the snapping of brands on the hearth,
the shuffle of moving feet and the short gasps of struggling men.

In that terrible grasp, Sanderson's strength was as a child's.

He could not call into play any of the wrestling tricks that were his, all he could do was
to keep his feet and wait for the madman's strength to expend itself.

The iron grip about his body seemed to slacken for a moment.  He wriggled free, and caught
the fatal underhold.

By this new grip, he forced David's body backward till the larger man's spine bade fair to snap.

David felt himself caught in a trap.  Exerting all his giant strength he forced one arm down
between their close-locked bodies, and clasped his other hand on Sanderson's face, pushing
two fingers into his eyeballs.

No man can endure this torture.  Sanderson loosed his hold.  David had caught him by the right
wrist and the left knee, stooping until his own shoulders were under the other's thigh.  Then,
with this leverage, he whirled Sanderson high in the air above his head and threw him with
all his force down upon the hearth.

A shower of sparks arose and the strong smell of burning clothes, as Sanderson, stunned and
helpless, lay across the blazing fire-place.

For a moment, David thought to leave his vanquished foe to his own fate, then he turned back.
What was the use?  It could not right the wrong he had done to Anna.  He bent over Sanderson,
extinguished the fire, pulled the unconscious man to the open door and left him.

It came to David like an inspiration that he had not thought of the lake; the ice was thin
on the southern shore below where the river emptied.  Suppose she had gone there; suppose in
her utter desolation she had gone there to end it all?  Imagination, quickened by suspense
and suffering, ran to meet calamity; already he was there and saw the bare trees, bearing their
burden of snow, and the placid surface, half frozen over, and on the southern shore, that faintly
rippled under its skimming of ice, something dark floating.  He saw the floating black hair,
and the dead eyes, open, as if in accusation of the grim injustice of it all.

He hurried through the drifted snow, as fast as his spent strength would permit, stumbling
once or twice over some obstruction, and covered the weary distance to the lake.

About a hundred yards from the lake Dave saw something that made his heart knock against his
ribs and his breath come short, as if he had been running.  It was Anna's gray cloak.  It lay
spread out on the snow as if it had been discarded hastily; there were footprints of a woman's
shoes near by; some of them leading toward the lake, others away from it, as if she might have
come and her courage failed her at the last moment.  The cape had not the faintest trace of
snow on its upturned surface.  It must, therefore, have been discarded lately, after the snowstorm
had ceased this morning.

Dave continued his search in an agony of apprehension.  The sun faintly struggled with the
mass of gray cloud, revealing a world of white.  He had wandered in the direction of a clump
of cedars, and remembered pointing the place out to her in the autumn as the scene of some
boyish adventure, which to commemorate he had cut his name on one of the trees.  Association,
more than any hope of finding her, led him to the cedars--and she was there.  She had fallen,
apparently, from cold and exhaustion.  He bent down close to the white, still face that gave
no sign of life.  He called her name, he kissed her, but there was no response--it was too late.

Dave looked at the little figure prostrate in the snow, and despair for a time deprived him
of all thought.  Then the lifelong habit of being practical asserted itself.  Unconsciousness
from long exposure to cold, he knew, resembled death, but warmth and care would often revive
the fluttering spark.  If there was a chance in a thousand, Dave was prepared to fight the
world for it.

He lifted Anna tenderly and started back for the shed where he had fought Sanderson.  Frail
as she was, it seemed to him, as he plunged through the drifts, that his strength would never
hold out till they reached their destination.  Inch by inch he struggled for every step of
the way, and the sweat dripped from him as if it had been August.  But he was more than rewarded,
for once.  She opened her eyes--she was not dead.

He found them all at the shed--the Squire, his mother, Kate, the professor and Marthy.  There
was no time for questions or speeches. Every one bent with a will toward the common object
of restoring Anna. The professor ran for the doctor, the women chafed the icy hands and feet
and the Squire built up a roaring fire.  Their efforts were finally rewarded and the big brown
eyes opened and turned inquiringly from one to another.

"What has happened?  Why are you all here?" she asked faintly; then remembering, she wailed:
"Oh, why did you bring me back?  I went to the lake, but it was so cold I could not throw myself
in; then I walked about till almost sunrise, and I was so tired that I laid down by the cedars
to sleep--why did you wake me?"

"Anna," said the Squire, "we want you to forgive us and come back as our daughter," and he
slipped her cold little hand in David's.  "This boy has been looking for you all night, Anna.
I thought maybe he had been taken from us to punish me for my hardness.  But, thank God, you
are both safe."

"You will, Anna, won't you? and father will give us his blessing."  She smiled her assent.

"I say, Squire, if you are giving out blessings, don't pass by Kate and me."

In the general kissing and congratulation that followed, Hi Holler appeared.  "Here's the sleigh,
I thought maybe you'd all be ready for breakfast.  Hallo, Anna, so he found you!  The station
agent told me that Mr. Sanderson left on the first train for Boston this morning. Says he ain't
never coming back."

"And a good thing he ain't," snapped Marthy Perkins--"after all the trouble he's made."

THE END.

