Archie thought that the time had now come for him to say something pretty, so that his love
might begin to know that he was there. "By George, yes, there'll be nobody so much admired
when she comes out again. There never was anybody so much admired before--before--that is,
when you were Julia Brabazon, you know; and I shouldn't wonder if you didn't come out quite
as strong as ever."

"As strong!" said the Franco-Pole. "A woman that has been married is always more admired than
a meess."

"Sophie, might I ask you and Captain Clavering to be a little less personal?"

"There is noting I hate so much as your meeses," continued Madam Gordeloup; "noting! Your English
meesses give themselves such airs. Now in Paris, or in dear Vienna, or in St. Petersburg, they
are not like that at all. There they are nobodies--they are nobodies; but then they will be
something very soon, which is to be better. Your English meess is so much and so grand; she
never can be greater and grander. So when she is a mamma, she lives down in the country by
herself, and looks after de pills and de powders. I don't like that. I don't like that at all.
No; if my husband had put me into the country to look after de pills and de powders, he should
have had them all, all--himself, when he came to see me." As she said this with great energy,
she opened her eyes wide, and looked full into Archie's face.

Captain Clavering, who was sitting with his hat in his two hands between his knees, stared
at the little foreigner. He had heard before of women poisoning their husbands, but never had
heard a woman advocate the system as expedient. Nor had he often heard a woman advocate any
system with the vehemence which Madam Gordeloup now displayed on this matter, and with an allusion
which was so very pointed to the special position of his own sister-in-law. Did Lady Ongar
agree with her? He felt as though he should like to know his Julia's opinion on that matter.

"Sophie, Captain Clavering will think that you are in earnest," said the countess, laughing.

"So I aim--in earnest. It is all wrong. You boil all the water out of de pot before you put
the gigot into it. So the gigot is no good, is tough and dry, and you shut it up in an old
house in the country. Then, to make matters pretty, you talk about de fields and de daisies.
I know. 'Thank you,' we should say. 'De fields and de daisies are so nice and so good! Suppose
you go down, my love, and walk in de fields, and pick de daisies, and send them up to me by
de railway!' Yes, that is what I would say."

Captain Clavering was now quite in the dark, and began to regard the little woman as a lunatic.
When she spoke of the pot and the gigot he vainly endeavored to follow her; and now that she
had got among the daisies he was more at a loss than ever. Fruit, vegetables, and cut flowers
came up, he knew, to London regularly from Clavering, when the family was in town--but no daisies.
In France it must, he supposed, be different. He was aware, however, of his ignorance, and
said nothing.

"No one ever did try to shut you up, Sophie!"

"No, indeed; M. Gordeloup knew better. What would he do if I were shut up? And no one will
ever shut you up, my dear. If I were you, I would give no one a chance."

"Don't say that," said the captain, almost passionately; "don't say that."

"Ha, ha! but I do say it. Why should a woman who has got everything marry again? If she wants
de fields and de daisies she has got them of her own--yes, of her own. If she wants de town,
she has got that, too. Jewels--she can go and buy them. Coaches--there they are. Parties--one,
two, three, every night, as many as she please. Gentlemen, who will be her humble slaves; such
a plenty--all London. Or, if she want to be alone, no one can come near her. Why should she
marry? No."

"But she might be in love with somebody," said the captain, in a surprised but humble tone.

"Love! Bah! Be in love, so that she may be shut up in an old barrack with de powders!" The
way in which that word barrack was pronounced, and the middle letters sounded, almost lifted
the captain off his seat. "Love is very pretty at seventeen, when the imagination is telling
a parcel of lies, and when life is one dream. To like people--oh, yes; to be very fond of your
friend;--oh, yes; to be most attached--as I am to my Julie"--here she got hold of Lady Ongar's
hand--"it is the salt of life! But what you call love, booing and cooing, with rhymes and verses
about de moon, it is to go back to pap and panade, and what you call bibs. No; if a woman wants
a house, and de something to live on, let her marry a husband; or if a man want to have children,
let him marry a wife. But to be shut up in a country house, when everything you have got of
your own--I say it is bad"

Captain Clavering was heartily sorry that he had mentioned the fact of his sister-in-law being
left at home at Clavering Park. It was most unfortunate. How could he make it understood that
if he were married he would not think of shutting his wife up at Ongar Park? "Lady Clavering,
you know, does come to London generally," he said.

"Bah!" exclaimed the little Franco-Pole.

"And as for me, I never should be happy, if I were married, unless I had my wife with me everywhere,"
said Captain Clavering.

"Bah-ah-ah!" ejaculated the lady.

Captain Clavering could not endure this any longer. He felt that the manner of the lady was,
to say the least of it, unpleasant, and he perceived that he was doing no good to his own cause.
So he rose from his chair and muttered some words with the intention of showing his purpose
of departure.

"Good-by, Captain Clavering," said Lady Ongar. "My love to my sister when you see her."

Archie shook hands with her and then made his bow to Madam Gordeloup. "Au revoir, my friend,"
she said, "and you remember all I say. It is not good for de wife to be alone in the country,
while de husband walk about in the town and make an eye to every lady he see." Archie would
not trust himself to renew the argument, but bowing again, made his way off.

"He was come for one admirer," said Sophie, as soon as the door was closed.

"An admirer of whom?"

"Not of me; oh, no; I was not in danger at all."

"Of me? Captain Clavering! Sophie, you get your head full of the strangest nonsense."

"Ah; very well. You see. What will you give me if I am right? Will you bet? Why had he got
on his new gloves, and had his head all smelling with stuff from de hair-dresser? Does he come
always perfumed like that? Does he wear shiny little boots to walk about in de morning, and
make an eye always? Perhaps yes."

"I never saw his boots or his eyes."

"But I see them. I see many things. He come to have Ongere Park for his own. I tell you, yes.
Ten thousand will come to have Ongere Park. Why not? To have Ongere Park and all de money a
man will make himself smell a great deal."

"You think much more about all that than is necessary."

"Do I, my dear? Very well. There are three already. There is Edouard, and there is this Clavering,
who you say is a captain; and there is the other Clavering who goes with his nose in the air,
and who thinks himself a clever fellow because he learned his lesson at school and did not
get himself whipped. He will be whipped yet some day--perhaps."

"Sophie, hold your tongue. Captain Clavering is my sister's brother-in-law, and Harry Clavering
is my friend."

"Ah, friend! I know what sort of friend he wants to be. How much better to have a park and
plenty of money than to work in a ditch and make a railway! But he do not know the way with
a woman. Perhaps he may be more at home, as you say, in the ditch. I should say to him, 'My
friend, you will do well in de ditch if you work hard; suppose you stay there.'"

"You don't seem to like my cousin, and, if you please, we will talk no more about him."

"Why should I not like him? He don't want to get any money from me."

"That will do, Sophie."

"Very well; it shall do for me. But this other man that come here to-day. He is a fool."

"Very likely."

"He did not learn his lesson without whipping."

"Nor with whipping either."

"No; he have learned nothing. He does not know what to do with his hat. He is a fool. Come,
Julie, will you take me out for a drive. It is melancholy for you to go alone; I came to ask
you for a drive. Shall we go?" And they did go, Lady Ongar and Sophie Gordeloup together. Lady
Ongar, as she submitted, despised herself for her submission; but what was she to do? It is
sometimes very difficult to escape from the meshes of friendship.

Captain Clavering, when he left Bolton Street, went down to his club, having first got rid
of his shining boots and new gloves. He sauntered up into the billiard-room knowing that his
friend would be there, and there he found Doodles with his coat off, the sleeves of his shirt
turned back, and armed with his cue. His brother captain, the moment that he saw him, presented
the cue at his breast. "Does she know you're there, old fellow; I say, does she know you're
there?" The room was full of men, and the whole thing was done so publicly that Captain Clavering
was almost offended.

"Come, Doodles, you go on with your game," said he; "it's you to play." Doodles turned to the
table, and scientifically pocketed the ball on which he played; then laid his own ball close
under the cushion, picked up a shilling and put it into his waistcoat pocket, holding a lighted
cigar in his mouth the while, and then he came back to his friend. "Well, Clavvy, how has it been?"

"Oh, nothing as yet, you know."

"Haven't you seen her?"

"Yes, I've seen her, of course. I'm not the fellow to let the grass grow under my feet. I've
only just come from her house."

"Well, well?"

"That's nothing much to tell the first day, you know."

"Did you let her know you were there? That's the chat. Damme, did you let her know you were there?"

In answer to this Archie attempted to explain that he was not as yet quite sure that he had
been successful in that particular; but in the middle of his story Captain Doodles was called
off to exercise his skill again, and on this occasion to pick up two shillings. "I'm sorry
for you, Griggs," he said, as a very young lieutenant, whose last life he had taken, put up
his cue with a look of ineffable disgust, and whose shilling Doodles had pocketed; "I'm sorry
for you, very; but a fellow must play the game, you know." Whereupon Griggs walked out of the
room with a gait that seemed to show that he had his own ideas upon that matter, though he
did not choose to divulge them. Doodles instantly returned to his friend. "With cattle of that
kind it's no use trying the waiting dodge," said he. "You should make your running at once,
and trust to bottom to carry you through."

"But there was a horrid little Frenchwoman came in!"

"What; a servant?"

"No; a friend. Such a creature! You should have heard her talk. A kind of confidential friend
she seemed, who called her Julie. I had to go away and leave her there, of course."

"Ah! you'll have to tip that woman."

"What, with money?"

"I shouldn't wonder."

"It would come very expensive."

"A tenner now and then, you know. She would do your business for you. Give her a brooch first,
and then offer to lend her the money. You'd find she'll rise fast enough, if you're any hand
for throwing a fly."

"Oh! I could do it, you know."

"Do it then, and let 'em both know that you're there. Yes, Parkyns, I'll divide. And, Clavvy,
you can come in now in Griggs' place." Then Captain Clavering stripped himself for the battle.

Chapter XXI

The Blue Posts

"Oh; so you've come to see me. I am so glad." With these words Sophie Gordeloup welcomed Harry
Clavering to her room in Mount Street early one morning not long after her interview with Captain
Archie in Lady Ongar's presence. On the previous evening Harry had received a note from Lady
Ongar, in which she upbraided him for having left unperformed her commission with reference
to Count Pateroff. The letter had begun quite abruptly. "I think it unkind of you that you
do not come to me. I asked you, to see a certain person on my behalf, and you have not done
so. Twice he has been here. Once I was in truth out. He came again the next evening at nine,
and I was then ill, and had gone to bed. You understand it all, and must know how this annoys
me. I thought you would have done this for me, and I thought I should have seen you.--J."

This note he found at his lodgings when he returned home at night, and on the following morning
he went in his despair direct to Mount Street, on his way to the Adelphi. It was not yet ten
o'clock when he was shown into Madam Gordeloup's presence, and as regarded her dress, he did
not find her to be quite prepared for morning visitors. But he might well be indifferent on
that matter, as the lady seemed to disregard the circumstance altogether. On her head she wore
what he took to be a nightcap, though I will not absolutely undertake to say that she had slept
in that very head-dress. There were frills to it, and a certain attempt at prettinesses had
been made; but then the attempt had been made so long ago, and the frills were so ignorant
of starch and all frillish propensities, that it hardly could pretend to decency. A great white
wrapper she also wore, which might not have been objectionable had it not been so long worn
that it looked like a university college surplice at the end of a long vacation. Her slippers
had all the ease which age could give them, and above the slippers, neatness, to say the least
of it, did not predominate. But Sophie herself seemed to be quite at her ease in spite of these
deficiencies, and received our hero with an eager, pointed welcome, which I can hardly describe
as affectionate, and which Harry did not at all understand.

"I have to apologize for troubling you," he began.

"Trouble, what trouble? Bah! You give me no trouble. It is you have the trouble to come here.
You come early and I have not got my crinoline. If you are contented, so am I." Then she smiled,
and sat herself down suddenly, letting herself almost fall into her special corner in the sofa.
"Take a chair, Mr. Harry; then we can talk more comfortable."

"I want especially to see your brother. Can you give me his address?"

"What? Edouard--certainly; Travellers' Club."

"But he is never there."

"He sends every day for his letters. You want to see him. Why?"

Harry was at once confounded, having no answer. "A little private business," he said.

"Ah; a little private business. You do not owe him a little money, I am afraid, or you would
not want to see him. Ha, ha! You write to him, and he will see you. There; there is paper and
pen and ink. He shall get your letter this day."

Harry, nothing suspicious, did as he was bid, and wrote a note in which he simply told the
count he was specially desirous of seeing him.

"I will go to you anywhere," said Harry, "if you will name a place"

We, knowing Madam Gordeloup's habits, may feel little doubt but that she thought it her duty
to become acquainted with the contents of the note before she sent it out of her house, but
we may also know that she learned very little from it.

"It shall go almost immediately," said Sophie, when the envelope was closed.

Then Harry got up to depart, having done his work. "What, you are going in that way at once?
You are in a hurry?"

"Well, yes; I am in a hurry, rather, Madam Gordeloup. I have got to be at my office, and I
only just came up here to find out your brother's address." Then he rose and went, leaving
the note behind him.

Then Madam Gordeloup, speaking to herself in French, called Harry Clavering a lout, a fool,
an awkward, overgrown boy, and a pig. She declared him to be a pig nine times over, then shook
herself in violent disgust, and after that betook herself to the letter.

The letter was at any rate duly sent to the count, for before Harry had left Mr. Beilby's chambers
on that day, Pateroff came to him there. Harry sat in the same room with other men, and therefore
went out to see his acquaintance in a little antechamber that was used for such purposes. As
he walked from one room to the other, he was conscious of the delicacy and difficulty of the
task before him, and the color was high in his face as he opened the door. But when he had
done so, he saw that the count was not alone. A gentleman was with him whom he did not introduce
to Harry, and before whom Harry could not say that which he had to communicate.

"Pardon me," said the count, "but we are in a railroad hurry. Nobody ever was in such a haste
as I and my friend. You are not engaged to-morrow? No, I see. You dine with me and my friend
at the Blue Posts. You know the Blue Posts?"

Harry said he did not know the Blue Posts.

"Then you shall know the Blue Posts. I will be your instructor. You drink claret. Come and
see. You eat beefsteaks. Come and try. You love one glass of port wine with your cheese. No.
But you shall love it when you have dined with me at the Blue Posts. We will dine together
after the English way--which is the best way in the world when it is quite good. It is quite
good at the Blue Posts--quite good! Seven o'clock. You are fined when a minute late; an extra
glass of port wine a minute. Now I must go. Ah; yes. I am ruined already."

Then Count Pateroff, holding his watch in his hand, bolted out of the room before Harry could
say a word to him.

He had nothing for it but to go to the dinner, and to the dinner he went. On that same evening,
the evening of the day on which he had seen Sophie and her brother, he wrote to Lady Ongar,
using to her the same manner of writing that she had used to him, and telling her that he had
done his best; that he had now seen whom he had been desired to see, but that he had not been
able to speak to him. He was, however, to dine with him on the following day, and would call
in Bolton Street as soon as possible after that interview.

Exactly at seven o'clock, Harry, having the fear of the threatened fine before his eyes, was
at the Blue Posts; and there, standing in the middle of the room, he saw Count Pateroff. With
Count Pateroff was the same gentleman whom Harry had seen at the Adelphi, and whom the count
now introduced as Colonel Schmoff; and also a little Englishman with a knowing eye and a bull-dog
neck, and whiskers cut very short and trim--a horsey little man, whom the count also introduced.
"Captain Boodle says he knows a cousin of yours, Mr. Clavering."

Then Colonel Schmoff bowed, never yet having spoken a word in Harry's hearing, and our friend
Doodles with glib volubility told Harry how intimate he was with Archie, and how he knew Sir
Hugh, and how he had met Lady Clavering, and how "doosed" glad he was to meet Harry himself
on this present occasion.

"And now, my boys, we'll set down," said the count. "There's just a little soup, printanier;
yes, they can make soup here; then a cut of salmon--and after that the beefsteak. Nothing more.
Schmoff, my boy, can you eat beefsteak?"

Schmoff neither smiled nor spoke, but simply bowed his head gravely, and sitting down, arranged
with slow exactness his napkin over his waistcoat and lap.

"Captain Boodle, can you eat beefsteak," said the count; "Blue Posts' beefsteak?"

"Try me," said Doodles. "That's all. Try me."

"I will try you, and I will try Mr. Clavering. Schmoff would eat a horse if he had not a bullock,
and a piece of jackass if he had not a horse."

"I did eat a horse in Hamboro' once. We was besieged."

So much said Schmoff, very slowly, in a deep bass voice, speaking from the bottom of his chest,
and frowning very heavily as he did so. The exertion was so great that he did not repeat it
for a considerable time.

"Thank God we are not besieged now," said the count, as the soup was handed round to them.
"Ah, Albert, my friend, that is good soup; very good soup. My compliments to the excellent
Stubbs. Mr. Clavering, the excellent Stubbs is the cook. I am quite at home here, and they
do their best for me. You need not fear you will have any of Schmoff's horse."

This was all very pleasant, and Harry Clavering sat down to his dinner prepared to enjoy it;
but there was a sense about him during the whole time that he was being taken in and cheated,
and that the count would cheat him and actually escape away from him on that evening without
his being able to speak a word to him. They were dining in a public room, at a large table
which they had to themselves, while others were dining at small tables round them. Even if
Schmoff and Boodle had not been there, he could hardly have discussed Lady Ongar's private
affairs in such a room as that. The count had brought him there to dine in this way with a
premeditated purpose of throwing him over, pretending to give him the meeting that had been
asked for, but intending that it should pass by and be of no avail. Such was Harry's belief;
and he resolved that, though he might have to seize Pateroff by the tails of his coat, the
count should not escape him without having been forced at any rate to hear what he had to say.
In the meantime the dinner went on very pleasantly.

"Ah," said the count, "there is no fish like salmon early in the year; but not too early. And
it should come alive from Grove, and be cooked by Stubbs."

"And eaten by me," said Boodle.

"Under my auspices," said the count, "and then all is well. Mr. Clavering, a little bit near
the head? Not care about any particular part? That is wrong. Everybody should always learn
what is the best to eat of everything, and get it if they can."

"By George, I should think so," said Doodles. "I know I do."

"Not to know the bit out of the neck of the salmon from any other bit, is not to know a false
note from a true one. Not to distinguish a '51 wine from a '58, is to look at an arm or a leg
on the canvas, and to care nothing whether it is in drawing, or out of drawing. Not to know
Stubbs' beefsteak from other beefsteaks, is to say that every woman is the same thing to you.
Only, Stubbs will let you have his beefsteak if you will pay him--him or his master. With the
beautiful woman it is not always so--not always. Do I make myself understood?"

"Clear as mud," said Doodles. "I'm quite along with you there. Why should a man be ashamed
of eating what's nice? Everybody does it."

"No, Captain Boodle; not everybody. Some cannot get it, and some do not know it when it comes
in their way. They are to be pitied. I do pity them from the bottom of my heart. But there
is one poor fellow I do pity more even than they."

There was something in the tone of the count's words--a simple pathos, and almost a melody,
which interested Harry Clavering. No one knew better than Count Pateroff how to use all the
inflexions of his voice, and produce from the phrases he used the very highest interest which
they were capable of producing. He now spoke of his pity in a way that might almost have made
a sensitive man weep. "Who is that you pity so much?" Harry asked.

"The man who cannot digest," said the count, in a low, clear voice. Then he bent down his head
over the morsel of food on his plate, as though he were desirous of hiding a tear. "The man
who cannot digest!" As he repeated the words he raised his head again, and looked round at
all their faces.

"Yes, yes; mein Gott, yes," said Schmoff, and even he appeared as though he were almost moved
from the deep quietude of his inward indifference.

"Ah; talk of blessings! What a blessing is digestion!" said the count. "I do not know whether
you have ever thought of it, Captain Boodle? You are young, and perhaps not. Or you, Mr. Clavering?
It is a subject worthy of your thoughts. To digest! Do you know what it means? It is to have
the sun always shining, and the shade always ready for you. It is to be met with smiles, and
to be greeted with kisses. It is to hear sweet sounds, to sleep with sweet dreams, to be touched
ever by gentle, soft, cool hands. It is to be in paradise. Adam and Eve were in paradise. Why?
Their digestion was good. And then they took liberties, eat bad fruit--things they could not
digest. They what we call, ruined their constitutions, destroyed their gastric juices, and
then they were expelled from paradise by an angel with a flaming sword. The angel with the
flaming sword, which turned two ways, was indigestion! There came a great indigestion upon
the earth because the cooks were bad, and they called it a deluge. Ah, I thank God there is
to be no more deluges. All the evils come from this. Macbeth could not sleep. It was the supper,
not the murder. His wife talked and walked. It was the supper again. Milton had a bad digestion
because he is always so cross; and your Carlyle must have the worst digestion in the world,
because he never says any good of anything. Ah, to digest is to be happy! Believe me, my friends,
there is no other way not to be turned out of paradise by a fiery, two-handed turning sword."

"It is true," said Schmoff; "yes, it is true."

"I believe you," said Doodles. "And how well the count describes it, don't he, Mr. Clavering?
I never looked at it in that light; but, after all, digestion is everything. What is a horse
worth, if he won't feed?"

"I never thought much about it," said Harry.

"That is very good," said the great preacher. "Not to think about it ever is the best thing
in the world. You will be made to think about it if there be necessity. A friend of mine told,
me he did not know whether he had a digestion. My friend, I said, you are like the husbandmen;
you do not know your own blessings. A bit more steak, Mr. Clavering; see, it has come up hot,
just to prove that you have the blessing."

There was a pause in the conversation for a minute or two, during which Schmoff and Doodles
were very busy giving the required proof; and the count was leaning back in his chair with
a smile of conscious wisdom on his face, looking as though he were in deep consideration of
the subject on which he had just spoken with so much eloquence. Harry did not interrupt the
silence, as, foolishly, he was allowing his mind to carry itself away from the scene of enjoyment
that was present, and trouble itself with the coming battle which he would be obliged to fight
with the count. Schmoff was the first to speak. "When I was eating a horse at Hamboro'--" he began.

"Schmoff," said the count, "if we allow you to get behind the ramparts of that besieged city,
we shall have to eat that horse for the rest of the evening. Captain Boodle, if you will believe
me, I eat that horse once for two hours. Ah, here is the port wine. Now, Mr. Clavering, this
is the wine for cheese--'34. No man should drink above two glasses of '34. if you want port
after that, then have '20."

Schmoff had certainly been hardly treated. He had scarcely spoken a word during dinner, and
should, I think, have been allowed to say something of the flavor of the horse. It did not,
however, appear from his countenance that he had felt, or that he resented the interference;
though he did not make any further attempt to enliven the conversation.

They did not sit long over their wine, and the count, in spite of what he had said about the
claret, did not drink any. "Captain Boodle," he said, "you must respect my weakness as well
as my strength. I know what I can do, and what I cannot. If I were a real hero, like you English--which
means, if I had an ostrich in my inside--I would drink till twelve every night, and eat broiled
bones till six every morning. But alas! the ostrich has not been given to me. As a common man
I am pretty well, but I have no heroic capacities. We will have a little chasse, and then we
will smoke."

Harry began to be very nervous. How was he to do it? It had become clearer and clearer to him
through every ten minutes of the dinner, that the count did not intend to give him any moment
for private conversation. He felt that he was cheated and ill-used, and was waxing angry. They
were to go and smoke in a public room, and he knew, or thought he knew, what that meant. The
count would sit there till he went, and had brought the Colonel Schmoff with him, so that he
might be sure of some ally to remain by his side and ensure silence. And the count, doubtless,
had calculated that when Captain Boodle went, as he soon would go, to his billiards, he, Harry
Clavering, would feel himself compelled to go also. No! It should not result in that way. Harry
resolved that he would not go. He had his mission to perform and he would perform it, even
if he were compelled to do so in the presence of Colonel Schmoff.

Doodles soon went. He could not sit long with the simple gratification of a cigar, without
gin-and-water or other comfort of that kind, even though the eloquence of Count Pateroff might
be excited in his favor. He was a man, indeed, who did not love to sit still, even with the
comfort of gin-and-water. An active little man was Captain Boodle, always doing something or
anxious to do something in his own line of business. Small speculations in money, so concocted
as to leave the risk against him smaller than the chance on his side, constituted Captain Boodle's
trade; and in that trade he was indefatigable, ingenious, and, to a certain extent, successful.
The worst of the trade was this: that though he worked at it about twelve hours a day, to the
exclusion of all other interests in life, he could only make out of it an income which would
have been considered a beggarly failure at any other profession. When he netted a pound a day
he considered himself to have done very well; but he could not do that every day in the week.
To do it often required unremitting exertion. And then, in spite of all his care, misfortunes
would come. "A cursed garron, of whom nobody had ever heard the name! If a man mayn't take
the liberty with such a brute as that, when is he to take a liberty?" So had he expressed himself
plaintively, endeavoring to excuse himself when on some occasion a race had been won by some
outside horse which Captain Boodle had omitted to make safe in his betting-book. He was regarded
by his intimate friends as a very successful man; but I think myself that his life was a mistake.
To live with one's hands ever daubed with chalk from a billiard-table, to be always spying
into stables and rubbing against grooms, to put up with the narrow lodgings which needy men
encounter at race meetings, to be day after day on the rails running after platers and steeple-chasers,
to be conscious on all occasions of the expediency of selling your beast when you are hunting,
to be counting up little odds at all your spare moments--these things do not, I think, make
a satisfactory life for a young man. And for a man that is not young, they are the very devil!
Better have no digestion when you are forty than find yourself living such a life as that!
Captain Boodle would, I think, have been happier had he contrived to get himself employed as
a tax-gatherer or an attorney's clerk.

On this occasion Doodles soon went, as had been expected, and Harry found himself smoking with
the two foreigners. Pateroff was no longer eloquent, but sat with his cigar in his mouth as
silent as Colonel Schmoff himself. It was evidently expected of Harry that he should go.

"Count," he said at last, "you got my note?" There were seven or eight persons sitting in the
room beside the party of three to which Harry belonged.

"Your note, Mr. Clavering! which note? Oh, yes; I should not have had the pleasure of seeing
you here to-day but for that."

"Can you give me five minutes in private?"

"What! now! here! this evening! after dinner? Another time I will talk with you by the hour
together."

"I fear I must trouble you now. I need not remind you that I could not keep you yesterday morning;
you were so much hurried."

"And now I am having my little moment of comfort! These special business conversations after
dinner are so bad for the digestion!"

"If I could have caught you before dinner, Count Pateroff, I would have done so."

"If it must be, it must. Schmoff, will you wait for me ten minutes? I will not be more than
ten minutes." And the count, as he made this promise, looked at his watch. "Waiter," he said,
speaking in a sharp tone which Harry had not heard before, "show this gentleman and me into
a private room."

Harry got up and led the way out, not forgetting to assure himself that he cared nothing for
the sharpness of the count's voice.

"Now, Mr. Clavering, what is it?" said the count, looking full into Harry's eye.

"I will tell you in two words."

"In one if you can."

"I came with a message to you from Lady Ongar."

"Why are you a messenger from Lady Ongar?"

"I have known her long and she is connected with my family."

"Why does she not send her messages by Sir Hugh--her brother-in-law?"

"It is hardly for you to ask that!"

"Yes; it is for me to ask that. I have known Lady Ongar well, and have treated her with kindness.
I do not want to have messages by anybody. But go on. If you are a messenger, give your message."

"Lady Ongar bids me tell you that she cannot see you."

"But she must see me. She shall see me!"

"I am to explain to you that she declines to do so. Surely, Count Pateroff, you must understand--"

"Ah, bah; I understand everything--in such matters as these, better, perhaps, than you, Mr.
Clavering. You have given your message. Now, as you are a messenger, will you give mine?"

"That will depend altogether on its nature."

"Sir, I never send uncivil words to a woman, though sometimes I may be tempted to speak them
to a man; when, for instance, a man interferes with me; do you understand? My message is this:
Tell her ladyship, with my compliments, that it will be better for her to see me--better for
her, and for me. When that poor lord died--and he had been, mind, my friend for many years
before her ladyship had heard his name--I was with him; and there were occurrences of which
you know nothing and need know nothing. I did my best then to be courteous to Lady Ongar, which
she returns by shutting her door in my face. I do not mind that. I am not angry with a woman.
But tell her that when she has heard what I now say to her by you, she will, I do not doubt,
think better of it; and therefore I shall do myself the honor of presenting myself at her door
again. Good-night, Mr. Clavering; au revoir; we will have another of Stubbs' little dinners
before long." As he spoke these last words the count's voice was again changed, and the old
smile had returned to his face.

Harry shook hands with him, and walked away homeward, not without a feeling that the count
had got the better of him, even to the end. He had, however, learned how the land lay, and
could explain to Lady Ongar that Count Pateroff now knew her wishes and was determined to disregard
them.

Chapter XXII

Desolation

In the meantime there was grief down at the great house of Clavering; and grief, we must suppose
also, at the house in Berkeley Square, as soon as the news from his country home had reached
Sir Hugh Clavering. Little Hughy, his heir, was dead. Early one morning, Mrs. Clavering, at
the rectory, received a message from Lady Clavering, begging that she would go up to the house,
and, on arriving there, she found that the poor child was very ill. The doctor was then at
Clavering, and had recommended that a message should be sent to the father in London, begging
him to come down. This message had been already despatched when Mrs. Clavering arrived. The
poor mother was in a state of terrible agony, but at that time there was yet hope. Mrs. Clavering
then remained with Lady Clavering for two or three hours; but just before dinner on the same
day another messenger came across to say that hope was past, and that the child had gone. Could
Mrs. Clavering come over again, as Lady Clavering was in a sad way?

"You'll have your dinner first?" said the rector.

"No, I think not. I shall wish to make her take something, and I can do it better if I ask
for tea for myself. I will go at once. Poor dear little boy."

"It was a blow I always feared," said the rector to his daughter as soon as his wife had left
them. "Indeed, I knew that it was coming."

"And she was always fearing it," said Fanny. "But I do not think he did. He never seems to
think that evil will come to him."

"He will feel this," said the rector.

"Feel it papa! Of course he will feel it."

"I do not think he would--not deeply, that is--if there were four or five of them. He is a
hard man; the hardest man I ever knew. Who ever saw him playing with his own child, or with
any other? Who ever heard him say a soft word to his wife? But he will feel it now, for this
child was his heir. He will be hit hard now, and I pity him."

Mrs. Clavering went across the park alone, and soon found herself in the poor bereaved mother's
room. She was sitting by herself; having driven the old house keeper away from her; and there
were no traces of tears then on her face, though she had wept plentifully when Mrs. Clavering
had been with her in the morning. But there had come upon her suddenly a look of age, which
nothing but such sorrow as this can produce. Mrs. Clavering was surprised to see that she had
dressed herself carefully since the morning, as was her custom to do daily, even when alone;
and that she was not in her bedroom, but in a small sitting room which she generally used when
Sir Hugh was not at the Park.

"My poor Hermione," said Mrs. Clavering, coming up to her, and taking her by the hand.

"Yes, I am poor; poor enough. Why have they troubled you to come across again?"

"Did you not send for me? But it was quite right, whether you sent or no. Of course I should
come when I heard it. It cannot be good for you to be all alone."

"I suppose he will be here to-night?"

"Yes, if he got your message before three o'clock."

"Oh, he will have received it, and I suppose he will come. You think he will come, eh?"

"Of course he will come."

"I do not know. He does not like coming to the country."

"He will be sure to come now, Hermione."

"And who will tell him? Some one must tell him before he comes to me. Should there not be some
one to tell him? They have sent another message."

"Hannah shall be at hand to tell him." Hannah was the old housekeeper, who had been in the
family when Sir Hugh was born. "Or, if you wish it, Henry shall come down and remain here.
I am sure he will do so, if it will be a comfort."

"No; he would, perhaps, be rough to Mr. Clavering. He is so very hard. Hannah shall do it.
Will you make her understand?" Mrs. Clavering promised that she would do this, wondering, as
she did so, at the wretched, frigid immobility of the unfortunate woman before her. She knew
Lady Clavering well; knew her to be in many things weak, to be worldly, listless, and perhaps
somewhat selfish; but she knew also that she had loved her child as mothers always love. Yet,
at this moment, it seemed that she was thinking more of her husband than of the bairn she had
lost. Mrs. Clavering had sat down by her and taken her hand, and was still so sitting in silence
when Lady Clavering spoke again. "I suppose he will turn me out of his house now," she said.

"Who will do so? Hugh? Oh, Hermione, how can you speak in such a way?"

"He scolded me before because my poor darling was not strong. My darling! How could I help
it? And he scolded me because there was none other but he. He will turn me out altogether now.
Oh, Mrs. Clavering, you do not know how hard he is."

Anything was better than this, and therefore Mrs. Clavering asked the poor woman to take her
into the room where the little body lay in its little cot. If she could induce the mother to
weep for the child, even that would be better than this hard, persistent fear as to what her
husband would say and do. So they both went and stood together over the little fellow whose
short sufferings had thus been brought to an end. "My poor dear, what can I say to comfort
you?" Mrs. Clavering, as she asked this, knew well that no comfort could be spoken in words;
but-if she could only make the sufferer weep!

"Comfort!" said the mother. "There is no comfort now, I believe, in anything. It is long since
I knew any comfort; not since Julia went."

"Have you written to Julia?"

"No; I have written to no one. I cannot write. I feel as though if it were to bring him back
again I could not write of it. My boy! my boy! my boy!" But still there was not a tear in her eye.

"I will write to Julia," said Mrs. Clavering; "and I will read to you my letter."

"No, do not read it me. What is the use? He has made her quarrel with me. Julia cares nothing
now for me, or for my angel. Why should she care? When she came home we would not see her.
Of course she will not care. Who is there that will care for me?"

"Do not I care for you, Hermione?"

"Yes, because you are here; because of the nearness of the houses. If you lived far away you
would not care for me. It is just the custom of the thing." There was something so true in
this that Mrs. Clavering could make no answer to it. Then they turned to go back into the sitting-room,
and as they did so Lady Clavering lingered behind for a moment; but when she was again with
Mrs. Clavering her cheek was still dry.

"He will be at the station at nine," said Lady Clavering. "They must send the brougham for
him, or the dog-cart. He will be very angry if he is made to come home in the fly from the
public-house." Then the elder lady left the room and gave orders that Sir Hugh should be met
by his carriage. What must the wife think of her husband, when she feared that he would be
angered by little matters at such a time as this! "Do you think it will make him very unhappy?"
Lady Clavering asked.

"Of course it will make him unhappy. How should it be otherwise?"

"He had said so often that the child would die. He will have got used to the fear."

"His grief will be as fresh now as though he had never thought so, and never said so."

"He is so hard; and then he has such will, such power. He will thrust it off from him and determine
that it shall not oppress him. I know him so well."

"We should all make some exertion like that in our sorrow, trusting to God's kindness to relieve
us. You too, Hermione, should determine also; but not yet, my dear. At first it is better to
let sorrow have its way."

"But he will determine at once. You remember when Meeny went." Meeny had been a little girl
who had been born before the boy, and who had died when little more than twelve months old.
"He did not expect that; but then he only shook his head, and went out of the room. He has
never spoken to me one word of her since that. I think he has forgotten Meeny altogether--even
that she was ever here."

"He cannot forget the boy who was his heir."

"Ah, that is where it is. He will say words to me which would make you weep if you could hear
them. Yes, my darling was his heir. Archie will marry now, and will have children, and his
boy will be the heir. There will be more division and more quarrels, for Hugh will hate his
brother now."

"I do not understand why."

"Because he is so hard. It is a pity he should ever have married, for he wants nothing that
a wife can do for him. He wanted a boy to come after him in the estate, and now that glory
has been taken from him. Mrs. Clavering, I often wish that I could die."

It would be bootless here to repeat the words of wise and loving counsel with which the elder
of the two ladies endeavored to comfort the younger, and to make her understand what were the
duties which still remained to her, and which, if they were rightly performed, would, in their
performance, soften the misery of her lot. Lady Clavering listened with that dull, useless
attention which on such occasions sorrow always gives to the prudent counsels of friendship;
but she was thinking ever and always of her husband, and watching the moment of his expected
return. In her heart she wished that he might not come on that evening. At last, at half-past
nine, she exerted herself to send away her visitor.

"He will be here soon, if he comes to-night," Lady Clavering said, "and it will be better that
he should find me alone."

"Will it be better?"

"Yes, yes. Cannot you see how he would frown and shake his head if you were here? I would sooner
be alone when he comes. Good-night. You have been very kind to me; but you are always kind.
Things are done kindly always at your house, because there is so much love there. You will
write to Julia for me. Good-night." Then Mrs. Clavering kissed her and went, thinking as she
walked home in the dark to the rectory, how much she had to be thankful in that these words
had been true which her poor neighbor had spoken. Her house was full of love.

Chapter XXIII

Sir Hugh's Return

For the next half hour Lady Clavering sat alone listening with eager ear for the sound of her
husband's wheels, and at last she had almost told herself that the hour for his coming had
gone by, when she heard the rapid grating on the gravel as the dog-cart was driven up to the
door. She ran out on to the corridor, but her heart sank within her as she did so, and she
took tightly hold of the balustrade to support herself. For a moment she had thought of running
down to meet him; of trusting to the sadness of the moment to produce in him, if it were but
for a minute, something of tender solicitude; but she remembered that the servants would be
there, and knew that he would not be soft before them. She remembered also that the housekeeper
had received her instructions, and she feared to disarrange the settled programme. So she went
back to the open door of the room, that her retreating step might not be heard by him as he
should come up to her, and standing there she still listened. The house was silent and her
ears were acute with sorrow. She could hear the movement of the old woman as she gently, tremblingly,
as Lady Clavering knew, made her way down the hall to meet her master. Sir Hugh of course had
learned his child's fate already from the servant who had met him; but it was well that the
ceremony of such telling should be performed. She felt the cold air come in from the opened
front door, and she heard her husband's heavy, quick step as he entered. Then she heard the
murmur of Hannah's voice; but the first word she heard was in her husband's tones, "Where is
Lady Clavering?" Then the answer was given, and the wife, knowing that he was coming, retreated
to her chair.

But still he did not come quite at once. He was pulling off his coat and laying aside his hat
and gloves. Then came upon her a feeling that at such a time any other husband and wife would
have been at once in each other's arms. And at the moment she thought of all that they had
lost. To her her child had been all and everything. To him he had been his heir and the prop
of his house. The boy had been the only link that had still bound them together. Now he was
gone, and there was no longer any link between them. He was gone, and she had nothing left
to her. He was gone, and the father was so alone in the world, without any heir and with no
prop to his house. She thought of all this as she heard his step coming slowly up the stairs.
Slowly he came along the passage, and though she dreaded his coming, it almost seemed as though
he would never be there.

When he had entered the room she was the first to speak. "Oh, Hugh!" she exclaimed, "oh, Hugh!"
He had closed the door before he uttered a word, and then he threw himself into a chair. There
were candles near to him, and she could see that his countenance also was altered. He had indeed
been stricken hard, and his half-stunned face showed the violence of the blow. The harsh, cruel,
selfish man had at last been made to suffer. Although he had spoken of it and had expected
it, the death of his heir hit him hard, as the rector had said.

"When did he die?" asked the father.

"It was past four, I think." Then there was again silence, and Lady Clavering went up to her
husband and stood close by his shoulder. At last she ventured to put her hand upon him. With
all her own misery heavy upon her, she was chiefly thinking at this moment how she might soothe
him. She laid her hand upon his shoulder, and by degrees she moved it softly to his breast.
Then he raised his own hand, and with it moved hers from his person. He did it gently; but
what was the use of such nonsense as that?

"The Lord giveth," said the wife, "and the Lord taketh away." Hearing this, Sir Hugh made with
his head a gesture of impatience. "Blessed be the name of the Lord," continued Lady Clavering.
Her voice was low and almost trembling, and she repeated the words as though they were a task
which she had set herself.

"That's all very well in its way," said he, "but what's the special use of it now? I hate twaddle.
One must bear one's misfortune as one best can. I don't believe that kind of thing ever makes
it lighter."

"They say it does, Hugh."

"Ah, they say! Have they ever tried? If you have been living up to that kind of thing all your
life, it may be very well; that is as well at one time as another. But it won't give me back
my boy."

"No, Hugh, he will never come back again; but we may think that he's in heaven."

"If that is enough for you, let it be so. But don't talk to me of it. I don't like it. It doesn't
suit me. I had only one, and he has gone. It is always the way." He spoke of the child as having
been his--not his and hers. She felt this, and understood the want of affection which it conveyed;
but she said nothing of it.

"Oh, Hugh, what could we do? It was not our fault."

"Who is talking of any fault? I have said nothing as to fault. He was always poor and sickly.
The Claverings generally have been so strong. Look at myself and Archie, and my sisters. Well,
it cannot be helped. Thinking of it will not bring him back again. You had better tell some
one to get me something to eat. I came away, of course, without any dinner."

She herself had eaten nothing since the morning, but she neither spoke nor thought of that.
She rang the bell, and going out into the passage, gave the servant the order on the stairs.
"It is no good my staying here," he said. "I will go and dress. It is the best not to think
of such things--much the best. People call that heartless, of course; but then people are fools.
If I were to sit still, and think of it for a week together, what good could I do?"

"But how not to think of it? That is the thing."

"Women are different, I suppose. I will dress, and then go down to the breakfast-room. Tell
Saunders to get me a bottle of champagne. You will be better also if you will take a glass
of wine."

It was the first word he had spoken which showed any care for her, and she was grateful for
it. As he arose to go, she came close to him again, and put her hand very gently on his arm.
"Hugh," she said, "will you not see him?"

"What good will that do?"

"I think you would regret it if you were to let them take him away without looking at him.
He is so pretty as he lies in his little bed. I thought you would come with me to see him."
He was more gentle with her than she had expected, and she led him away to the room which had
been their own, and in which the child had died.

"Why here?" he said, almost angrily, as he entered.

"I have had him here with me since you went."

"He should not be here now," he said, shuddering. "I wish he had been moved before I came.
I will not have this room any more; remember that." She led him up to the foot of the little
cot, which stood close by the head of her own bed, and then she removed a handkerchief which
lay upon the child's face.

"Oh, Hugh! oh, Hugh!" she said, and throwing her arms round his neck, she wept violently upon
his breast. For a few moments he did not disturb her, but stood looking at his boy's face.
"Hugh, Hugh," she repeated, "will you not be kind to me? Do be kind to me. It is not my fault
that we are childless."

Still he endured her for a few moments longer. He spoke no word to her, but he let her remain
there with her head upon his breast.

"Dear Hugh, I love you so truly!"

"This is nonsense," said he; "sheer nonsense." His voice was low and very hoarse. "Why do you
talk of kindness now?"

"Because I am so wretched."

"What have I done to make you wretched?"

"I do not mean that; but if you will be gentle with me, it will comfort me. Do not leave me
here all alone, how my darling has been taken from me."

Then he shook her from him, not violently, but with a persistent action.

"Do you mean that you want to go up to town?" he said.

"Oh, no; not that."

"Then what is it you want? Where would you live, if not here?"

"Anywhere you please, only that you should stay with me."

"All that is nonsense. I wonder that you should talk of such things now. Come away from this,
and let me go to my room. All this is trash and nonsense, and I hate it." She put back with
careful hands the piece of cambric which she had moved, and then, seating herself on a chair,
wept violently, with her hands closed upon her face. "That comes of bringing me here," he said.
"Get up, Hermione. I will not have you so foolish. Get up, I say. I will have the room closed
till the men come."

"Oh, no!"

"Get up, I say, and come away." Then she rose, and followed him out of the chamber; and when
he went to change his clothes, she returned to the room in which he had found her. There she
sat and wept, while he went down and dined and drank alone. But the old housekeeper brought
her up a morsel of food and a glass of wine, saying that her master desired that she would take it.

"I will not leave you, my lady, till you have done so," said Hannah. "To fast so long must
be bad always."

Then she eat the food, and drank a drop of wine, and allowed the old woman to take her away
to the bed that had been prepared for her. Of her husband she saw no more for four days. On
the next morning a note was brought to her, in which Sir Hugh told her that he had returned
to London. It was necessary, he said, that he should see his lawyer and his brother. He and
Archie would return for the funeral. With reference to that he had already given orders.

During the next three days, and till her husband's return, Lady Clavering remained at the rectory;
and in the comfort of Mrs. Clavering's presence, she almost felt that it would be well for
her if those days could be prolonged. But she knew the hour at which her husband would return,
and she took care to be at home when he arrived. "You will come and see him?" she said to the
rector, as she left the parsonage. "You will come at once--in an hour or two?" Mr. Clavering
remembered the circumstances of his last visit to the house, and the declaration he had then
made that he would not return there. But all that could not now be considered.

"Yes," he said, "I will come across this evening. But you had better tell him, so that he need
not be troubled to see me if he would rather be alone."

"Oh, he will see you. Of course he will see you. And you will not remember that he ever offended
you?"

Mrs. Clavering had written both to Julia and to Harry, and the day of the funeral had been
settled. Harry had already communicated his intention of coming down; and Lady Ongar had replied
to Mrs. Clavering's letter, saying that she could not now offer to go to Clavering Park, but
that if her sister would go elsewhere with her--to some place, perhaps, on the sea-side--she
would be glad to accompany her; and she used many arguments in her letter to show that such
an arrangement as this had better be made.

"You will be with my sister," she had said; "and she will understand why I do not write to
her myself, and will not think that it comes from coldness." This had been written before Lady
Ongar saw Harry Clavering.

Mr. Clavering, when he got to the great house, was immediately shown into the room in which
the baronet and his younger brother were sitting. They had, some time since, finished dinner,
but the decanters were still on the table before them. "Hugh," said the, rector, walking up
to his elder nephew briskly, "I grieve for you. I grieve, for you from the bottom of my heart."

"Yes," said Hugh, "it has been a heavy blow. Sit down, uncle. There is a clean glass there,
or Archie will fetch you one." Then Archie looked out a clean glass, and passed the decanter;
but of this the rector took no direct notice.

"It has been a blow, my poor boy--a heavy blow," said the rector. "None heavier could have
fallen. But our sorrows come from Heaven, as do our blessings, and must be accepted."

"We are all like grass," said Archie, "and must be cut down in our turns." Archie, in saying
this, intended to put on his best behavior. He was as sincere as he knew how to be.

"Come, Archie, none of that," said his brother. "It is my uncle's trade."

"Hugh," said the rector, "unless you can think of it so, you will find no comfort."

"And I expect none, so there is an end of that. Different people think of these things differently,
you know, and it is of no more use for me to bother you than it is for you to bother me. My
boy has gone, and I know that he will not come back to me. I shall never have another, and
it is hard to bear. But, meaning no offence to you, I would sooner be left to bear it in my
own way. If I were to talk about grass, as Archie did just now, it would be a humbug, and I
hate humbug. No offence to you. Take some wine, uncle." But the rector could not drink wine
in that presence, and therefore he escaped as soon as he could. He spoke one word of intended
comfort to Lady Clavering, and then returned to the rectory.

Chapter XXIV

Yes; Wrong--Certainly Wrong

Harry Clavering had heard the news of his little cousin's death before he went to Bolton Street
to report the result of his negotiation with the count. His mother's letter with the news had
come to him in the morning, and on the same evening he called on Lady Ongar. She also had then
received Mrs. Clavering's letter, and knew what had occurred at the park. Harry found her alone,
having asked the servant whether Madam Gordeloup was with his mistress. Had such been the case
he would have gone away, and left his message untold.

As he entered the room his mind was naturally full of the tidings from Clavering. Count Pateroff
and his message had lost some of their importance through this other event, and the emptiness
of the childless house was the first subject of conversation between him and Lady Ongar. "I
pity my sister greatly," said she. "I feel for her as deeply as I should have done had nothing
occurred to separate us--but I cannot feel for him."

"I do," said Harry.

"He is your cousin, and perhaps has been your friend?"

"No, not especially. He and I have never pulled well together; but still I pity him deeply."

"He is not my cousin, but I know him better than you do, Harry. He will not feel much himself,
and his sorrow will be for his heir, not for his son. He is a man whose happiness does not
depend on the life or death of any one. He likes some people, as he once liked me; but I do
not think that he ever loved any human being. He will get over it, and he will simply wish
that Hermy may die, that he may marry another wife. Harry, I know him so well!"

"Archie will marry now," said Harry.

"Yes; if he can get any one to have him. There are very few men who can't get wives, but I
can fancy Archie Clavering to be one of them. He has not humility enough to ask the sort of
girl who would be glad to take him. Now, with his improved prospects, he will want a royal
princess or something not much short of it. Money, rank, and blood might have done before,
but he'll expect youth, beauty, and wit now, as well as the other things. He may marry after
all, for he is just the man to walk out of a church some day with the cookmaid under his arm
as his wife."

"Perhaps he may find something between a princess and a cookmaid."

"I hope, for your sake, he may not--neither a princess nor a cookmaid, nor anything between."

"He has my leave to marry to-morrow, Lady Ongar. If I had my wish, Hugh should have his house
full of children."

"Of course that is the proper thing to say, Harry."

"I won't stand that from you, Lady Ongar. What I say, I mean; and no one knows that better
than you."

"Won't you, Harry? From whom, then, if not from me? But come, I will do you justice, and believe
you to be simple enough to wish anything of the kind. The sort of castle in the air which you
build, is not to be had by inheritance, but to be taken by storm. You must fight for it."

"Or work for it."

"Or win it in some way off your own bat; and no lord ever sat prouder in his castle than you
sit in those that you build from day to day in your imagination. And you sally forth and do
all manner of magnificent deeds. You help distressed damsels--poor me, for instance; and you
attack enormous dragons--shall I say that Sophie Gordeloup is the latest dragon?--and you wish
well to your enemies, such as Hugh and Archie; and you cut down enormous forests, which means
your coming miracles as an engineer--and then you fall gloriously in love. When is that last
to be, Harry?"

"I suppose, according to all precedent, that must be done with the distressed damsel," he said--fool
that he was.

"No, Harry, no; you shall take your young, fresh, generous heart to a better market than that;
not but that the distressed damsel will ever remember what might once have been."

He knew that he was playing on the edge of a precipice--that he was fluttering as a moth round
a candle. He knew that it behooved him now at once to tell her all his tale as to Stratton
and Florence Burton--that if he could tell it now, the pang would be over and the danger gone.
But he did not tell it. Instead of telling it he thought of Lady Ongar's beauty, of his own
early love, of what might have been his had he not gone to Stratton. I think he thought, if
not of her wealth, yet of the power and place which would have been his were it now open to
him to ask her for her hand. When he had declared that he did not want his cousin's inheritance,
he had spoken the simple truth. He was not covetous of another's money. Were Archie to marry
as many wives as Henry, and have as many children as Priam, it would be no offence to him.
His desires did not lie in that line. But in this other case, the woman before him who would
so willingly have endowed him with all she possessed, had been loved by him before he had ever
seen Florence Burton. In all his love for Florence--so he now told himself, but so told himself
falsely--he had ever remembered that Julia Brabazon had been his first love, the love whom
he had loved with all his heart. But things had gone with him most unfortunately--with a misfortune
that had never been paralleled. It was thus he was thinking instead of remembering that now
was the time in which his tale should be told.

Lady Ongar, however, soon carried him away from the actual brink of the precipice. "But how
about the dragon," said she, "or rather about the dragon's brother, at whom you were bound
to go and tilt on my behalf? Have you tilted, or are you a recreant knight?"

"I have tilted," said he, "but the he-dragon professes that he will not regard himself as killed.
In other words, he declares that he will see you."

"That he will see me?" said Lady Ongar, and as she spoke there came an angry spot on each cheek.
"Does he send me that message as a threat?"

"He does not send it as a threat, but I think he partly means it so."

"He will find, Harry, that I will not see him; and that should he force himself into my presence,
I shall know how to punish such an outrage. If he sent me any message, let me know it."

"To tell the truth, he was most unwilling to speak to me at all, though he was anxious to be
civil to me. When I had inquired for him some time in vain, he came to me with another man,
and asked me to dinner. So I went, and as there were four of us, of course I could not speak
to him then. He still had the other man, a foreigner--"

"Colonel Schmoff, perhaps?"

"Yes; Colonel Schmoff. He kept Colonel Schmoff by him, so as to guard him from being questioned."

"That is so like him. Everything he does he does with some design--with some little plan. Well,
Harry, you might have ignored Colonel Schmoff for what I should have cared."

"I got the count to come out into another room at last, and then he was very angry--with me,
you know--and talked of what he would do to men who interfered with him."

"You will not quarrel with him, Harry? Promise me that there shall be no nonsense of that sort--no
fighting."

"Oh, no; we were friends again very soon. But he bade me tell you that there was something
important for him to say and for you to hear, which was no concern of mine, and which required
an interview."

"I do not believe him, Harry."

"And he said that he had once been very courteous to you--"

"Yes; once insolent--and once courteous. I have forgiven the one for the other."

"He then went on to say that you made him a poor return for his civility by shutting your door
in his face, but that he did not doubt you would think better of it when you had heard his
message. Therefore, he said, he should call again. That, Lady Ongar, was the whole of it."

"Shall I tell you what his intention was, Harry?" Again her face became red as she asked this
question; but the color which now came to her cheeks was rather that of shame than of anger.

"What was his intention?"

"To make you believe that I am in his power; to make you think that he has been my lover; to
lower me in your eyes, so that you might believe all that others have believed--all that Hugh
Clavering has pretended to believe. That has been his object, Harry, and perhaps you will tell
me what success he has had."

"Lady Ongar!"

"You know the old story, that the drop which is ever dropping will wear the stone. And after
all why should your faith in me be as hard even as a stone?"

"Do you believe that what he said had any such effect?"

"It is very hard to look into another person's heart; and the dearer and nearer that heart
is to your own, the greater, I think, is the difficulty. I know that man's heart--what he calls
his heart--but I don't know yours."

For a moment or two Clavering made no answer, and then, when he did speak, he went back from
himself to the count.

"If what you surmise of him be true, he must be a very devil. He cannot be a man--"

"Man or devil, what matters which he be? Which is the worst, Harry, and what is the difference?
The Fausts of this day want no Mephistopheles to teach them guile or to harden their hearts."

"I do not believe that there are such men. There may be one."

"One, Harry! What was Lord Ongar? What is your cousin Hugh? What is this Count Pateroff? Are
they not all of the same nature--hard as stone, desirous simply of indulging their own appetites,
utterly without one generous feeling, incapable even of the idea of caring for any one? Is
it not so? In truth, this count is the best of the three I have named. With him a woman would
stand a better chance than with either of the others."

"Nevertheless, if that was his motive, he is a devil."

"He shall be a devil if you say so. He shall be anything you please, so long as he has not
made you think evil of me."

"No, he has not done that."

"Then I don't care what he has done, or what he may do. You would not have me see him, would
you?" This she asked with a sudden energy, throwing herself forward from her seat with her
elbows on the table, and resting her face on her hands, as she had already done more than once
when he had been there; so that the attitude, which became her well, was now customary in his eyes.

"You will hardly be guided by my opinion in such a matter."

"By whose, then, will I be guided? Nay, Harry, since you put me to a promise, I will make the
promise. I will be guided by your opinion. If you bid me see him, I will do it--though, I own,
it would be distressing to me."

"Why should you see him, if you do not wish it?"

"I know no reason. In truth there is no reason. What he says about Lord Ongar is simply some
part of his scheme. You see what his scheme is, Harry?"

"What is his scheme?"

"Simply this--that I should be frightened into becoming his wife. My darling bosom friend Sophie,
who, as I take it, has not quite managed to come to satisfactory terms with her brother--and
I have no doubt her price for assistance has been high--has informed me more than once that
her brother desires to do me so much honor. The count, perhaps, thinks that he can manage such
a bagatelle without any aid from his sister; and my dearest Sophie seems to feel that she can
do better with me herself in my widowed state, than if I were to take another husband. They
are so kind and so affectionate; are they not?"

At this moment tea was brought in, and Clavering sat for a time silent with his cup in his
hand. She, the meanwhile, had resumed the old position with her face upon her hands, which
she had abandoned when the servant entered the room, and was now sitting looking at him as
he sipped his tea with his eyes averted from her. "I cannot understand," at last he said, "why
you should persist in your intimacy with such a woman."

"You have not thought about it, Harry, or you would understand it. It is, I think, very easily
understood."

"You know her to be treacherous, false, vulgar, covetous, unprincipled. You cannot like her.
You say she is a dragon."

"A dragon to you, I said."

"You cannot pretend that she is a lady, and yet you put up with her society."

"Exactly. And now tell me what you would have me do."

"I would have you part from her."

"But how? It is so easy to say, part. Am I to bar my door against her when she has given me
no offence? Am I to forget that she did me great service, when I sorely needed such services?
Can I tell her to her face that she is all these things that you say of her, and that therefore
I will for the future dispense with her company? Or do you believe that people in this world
associate only with those they love and esteem?"

"I would not have one for my intimate friend whom I did not love and esteem."

"But, Harry, suppose that no one loved and esteemed you; that you had no home down at Clavering
with a father that admires you and a mother that worships you; no sisters that think you to
be almost perfect, no comrades with whom you can work with mutual regard and emulation, no
self-confidence, no high hopes of your own, no power of choosing companions whom you can esteem
and love--suppose with you it was Sophie Gordeloup or none--how would it be with you then?"

His heart must have been made of stone if this had not melted it. He got up, and coming round
to her, stood over her. "Julia," he said, "it is not so with you."

"But it is so with Julia," she said. "That is the truth. How am I better than she, and why
should I not associate with her?"

"Better than she! As women you are poles asunder."

"But as dragons," she said, smiling, "we come together."

"Do you mean that you have no one to love you?"

"Yes, Harry; that is just what I do mean. I have none to love me. In playing my cards, I have
won my stakes in money and rank, but have lost the amount ten times told in affection, friendship,
and that general unpronounced esteem which creates the fellowship of men and women in the world.
I have a carriage and horses, and am driven about with grand servants; and people, as they
see me, whisper and say that is Lady Ongar, whom nobody knows. I can see it in their eyes till
I fancy that I can hear their words."

"But it is all false."

"What is false? It is not false that I have deserved this. I have done that which has made
me a fitting companion for such a one as Sophie Gordeloup, though I have not done that which
perhaps these people think."

He paused again before he spoke, still standing near her on the rug. "Lady Ongar--" he said.

"Nay, Harry; not Lady Ongar when we are together thus. Let me feel that I have one friend who
can dare to call me by my name--from whose mouth I shall be pleased to hear my name. You need
not fear that I shall think that it means too much. I will not take it as meaning what it used
to mean." He did not know how to go on with his speech, or in truth what to say to her. Florence
Burton was still present to his mind, and from minute to minute he told himself that he would
not become a villain. But now it had come to that with him, that he would have given all that
he had in the world that he had never gone to Stratton. He sat down by her in silence, looking
away from her at the fire, swearing to himself that he would not become a villain, and yet
wishing, almost wishing, that he had the courage to throw his honor overboard. At last, half
turning round toward her, he took her hand, or rather took her arm by the wrist till he could
possess himself of her hand. As he did so he touched her hair and her cheek, and she let her
hand drop till it rested in his. "Julia," he said, "what can I do to comfort you?" She did
not answer him, but looked away from him as she sat, across the table into vacancy. "Julia,"
he said again, "is there anything that will comfort you?" But still she did not answer him.

He understood it all as well as the reader will understand it. He knew how it was with her,
and was aware that he was at that instant false almost equally to her and to Florence. He knew
that the question he had asked was one to which there could be made a true and satisfactory
answer, but that his safety lay in the fact that that answer was all but impossible for her
to give. Could she say, "Yes, you can comfort me. Tell me that you yet love me, and I will
be comforted?" But he had not designed to bring her into such difficulty as this. He had not
intended to be cruel. He had drifted into treachery unawares, and was torturing her, not because
he was wicked, but because he was weak. He had held her hand now for some minute or two, but
still she did not speak to him. Then he raised it and pressed it warmly to his lips.

"No, Harry," she said, jumping from her seat and drawing her hand rapidly from him; "no; it
shall not be like that. Let it be Lady Ongar again if the sound of the other name brings back
too closely the memory of other days. Let it be Lady Ongar again. I can understand that it
will be better." As she spoke she walked away from him across the room, and he followed her.

"Are you angry?" he asked her.

"No, Harry; not angry. How should I be angry with you who alone are left to me of my old friends?
But, Harry, you must think for me, and spare me in my difficulty."

"Spare you, Julia?"

"Yes, Harry, spare me; you must be good to me and considerate, and make yourself like a brother
to me. But people will know you are not a brother, and you must remember all that for my sake.
But you must not leave me or desert me. Anything that people might say would be better than that."

"Was I wrong to kiss your hand?"

"Yes, wrong, certainly wrong--that is, not wrong, but unmindful."

"I did it," he said, "because I love you." As he spoke the tears stood in both his eyes.

"Yes; you love me, and I you; but not with love that may show itself in that form. That was
the old love, which I threw away, and which has been lost. That was at an end when I--jilted
you. I am not angry; but you will remember that that love exists no longer? You will remember
that, Harry?"

He sat himself down in a chair in the far part of the room, and two tears coursed their way
down his cheeks. She stood over him and watched him as he wept. "I did not mean to make you
sad," she said. "Come, we will be sad no longer. I understand it all. I know how it is with
you. The old love is lost, but we shall not the less be friends." Then he rose suddenly from
his chair, and taking her in his arms, and holding her closely to his bosom, pressed his lips
to hers.

He was so quick in this that she had not the power, even if she had the wish, to restrain him.
But she struggled in his arms, and held her face aloof from him as she gently rebuked his passion.
"No, Harry, no; not so," she said, "it must not be so."

"Yes, Julia, yes; it shall be so; ever so--always so." And he was still holding her in his
arms, when the door opened, and with stealthy, cat-like steps Sophie Gordeloup entered the
room. Harry immediately retreated from his position, and Lady Ongar turned upon her friend,
and glared upon her with angry eyes.

"Ah," said the little Franco-Pole, with an expression of infinite delight on her detestable
visage, "ah, my dears, is it not well that I thus announce myself?"

"No," said Lady Ongar, "it is not well. It is anything but well."

"And why not well, Julie? Come, do not be foolish. Mr. Clavering is only a cousin, and a very
handsome cousin, too. What does it signify before me?"

"It signifies nothing before you," said Lady Ongar.

"But before the servant, Julie--?"

"It would signify nothing before anybody."

"Come, come, Julie, dear; that is nonsense."

"Nonsense or no nonsense, I would wish to be private when I please. Will you tell me, Madam
Gordeloup, what is your pleasure at the present moment?"

"My pleasure is to beg your pardon and to say you must forgive your poor friend. Your fine
man-servant is out, and Bessy let me in. I told Bessy I would go up by myself, and that is
all. If I have come too late I beg pardon."

"Not too late, certainly--as I am still up."

"And I wanted to ask you about the pictures to-morrow? You said, perhaps you would go to-morrow--perhaps
not."

Clavering had found himself to be somewhat awkwardly situated while Madam Gordeloup was thus
explaining the causes of her having come unannounced into the room; as soon, therefore, as
he found it practicable, he took his leave. "Julia," he said, "as Madam Gordeloup is with you,
I will now go."

"But you will let me see you soon?"

"Yes, very soon; that is, as soon as I return from Clavering. I leave town early to-morrow
morning."

"Good-by then," and she put out her hand to him frankly, smiling sweetly on him. As he felt
the warm pressure of her hand he hardly knew whether to return it or reject it. But he had
gone too far now for retreat, and he held it firmly for a moment in his own. She smiled again
upon him, oh! so passionately, and nodded her head at him. He had never, he thought, seen a
woman look so lovely, or move light of heart. How different was her countenance now from that
she had worn when she told him, earlier on that fatal evening, of all the sorrows that made
her wretched! That nod of hers said so much. "We understand each other now--do we not? Yes;
although this spiteful woman has for the moment come between us, we understand each other.
And is it not sweet? Ah! the troubles of which I told you you, you have cured them all." All
that had been said plainly in her farewell salutation, and Harry had not dared to contradict
it by any expression of his countenance.

"By, by, Mr. Clavering," said Sophie.

"Good evening, Madam Gordeloup," said Harry, turning upon her a look of bitter anger. Then
he went, leaving the two women together, and walked home to Bloomsbury Square--not with the
heart of a joyous, thriving lover.

Chapter XXV

The Day of the Funeral

Harry Clavering, when he had walked away from Bolton Street after the scene in which he had
been interrupted by Sophie Gordeloup, was not in a happy frame of mind, nor did he make his
journey down to Clavering with much comfort to himself. Whether or not he was now to be regarded
as a villain, at any rate he was not a villain capable of doing his villainy without extreme
remorse and agony of mind. It did not seem to him to be even yet possible that he should be
altogether untrue to Florence. It hardly occurred to him to think that he could free himself
from the contract by which he was bound to her: No; it was toward Lady Ongar that his treachery
must be exhibited toward the woman whom he had sworn to befriend, and whom he now, in his distress,
imagined to be the dearer to him of the two. He should, according to his custom, have written
to Florence a day or two before he left London, and, as he went to Bolton Street, had determined
to do so that evening on his return home; but when he reached his rooms he found it impossible
to write such a letter. What could he say to her that would not be false? How could he tell
her that he loved her, and speak as he was wont to do of his impatience, after that which had
just occurred in Bolton Street?

But what was he to do in regard to Julia? He was bound to let her know at once what was his
position, and to tell her that in treating her as he had treated her, he had simply insulted
her. That look of gratified contentment with which she had greeted him as he was leaving her,
clung to his memory and tormented him. Of that contentment he must now rob her, and he was
bound to do so with as little delay as was possible. Early in the morning before he started
on his journey he did make an attempt, a vain attempt, to write, not to Florence but to Julia.
The letter would not get itself written. He had not the hardihood to inform her that he had
amused himself with her sorrows, and that he had injured her by the exhibition of his love.
And then that horrid Franco-Pole, whose prying eyes Julia had dared to disregard, because she
had been proud of his love! If she had not been there, the case might have been easier. Harry,
as he thought of this, forgot to remind himself that if Sophie had not interrupted him he would
have floundered on from one danger to another till he would have committed himself more thoroughly
even than he had done, and have made promises which it would have been as shameful to break
as it would be to keep them. But even as it was, had he not made such promises? Was there not
such a promise in that embrace, in the half-forgotten word or two which he had spoken while
she was in his arms, and in the parting grasp of his hand? He could not write that letter then,
on that morning, hurried as he was with the necessity of his journey; and he started for Clavering
resolving that it should be written from his father's house.

It was a tedious, sad journey to him, and he was silent and out of spirits when he reached
his home; but he had gone there for the purpose of his cousin's funeral, and his mood was not
at first noticed, as it might have been had the occasion been different. His father's countenance
wore that well-known look of customary solemnity which is found to be necessary on such occasions,
and his mother was still thinking of the sorrows of Lady Clavering, who had been at the rectory
for the last day or two.

"Have you seen Lady Ongar since she heard of the poor child's death?" his mother asked.

"Yes; I was with her yesterday evening."

"Do you see her often?" Fanny inquired.

"What do you call often? No; not often. I went to her last night because she had given me a
commission. I have seen her three or four times altogether."

"Is she as handsome as she used to be?" said Fanny.

"I cannot tell; I do not know."

"You used to think her very handsome, Harry."

"Of course she is handsome. There has never been a doubt about that; but when a woman is in
deep mourning one hardly thinks about her beauty." Oh, Harry, Harry, how could you be so false?

"I thought young widows were always particularly charming," said Fanny; "and when one remembers
about Lord Ongar one does not think of her being a widow so much as one would do if he had
been different."

"I don't know anything about that," said he. He felt that he was stupid, and that he blundered
in every word, but he could not help himself. It was impossible that he should talk about Lady
Ongar with proper composure. Fanny saw that the subject annoyed him and that it made him cross,
and she therefore ceased. "She wrote a very nice letter to your mother about the poor child,
and about her sister," said the rector. "I wish with all my heart that Hermione could go to
her for a time."

"I fear that he will not let her," said Mrs. Clavering. "I do not understand it at all, but
Hermione says that the rancor between Hugh and her sister is stronger now than ever."

"And Hugh will not be the first to put rancor out of his heart," said the rector.

On the following day was the funeral, and Harry went with his father and cousins to the child's
grave. When he met Sir Hugh in the dining-room in the Great House the baronet hardly spoke
to him. "A sad occasion; is it not?" said Archie; "very sad; very sad." Then Harry could see
that Hugh scowled at his brother angrily, hating his humbug, and hating it the more because
in Archie's case it was doubly humbug. Archie was now heir to the property and to the title.

After the funeral, Harry went to see Lady Clavering, and again had to endure a conversation
about Lady Ongar. Indeed, he had been specially commissioned by Julia to press upon her sister
the expediency of leaving Clavering for a while. This had been early on that last evening in
Bolton Street, long before Madam Gordeloup had made her appearance. "Tell her from me," Lady
Ongar had said, "that I will go anywhere that she may wish if she will go with me--she and
I alone; and, Harry, tell her this as though I meant it. I do mean it. She will understand
why I do not write myself. I know that he sees all her letters when he is with her." This task
Harry was now to perform, and the result he was bound to communicate to Lady Ongar. The message
he might give; but delivering the answer to Lady Ongar would be another thing.

Lady Clavering listened to what he said, but when he pressed her for a reply she shook her
head. "And why not, Lady Clavering?"

"People can't always leave their houses and go away, Harry."

"But I should have thought that you could have done so now; that is, before long. Will Sir
Hugh remain here at Clavering?"

"He has not told me that he means to go."

"If he stays, I suppose you will stay; but if he goes up to London again, I cannot see why
you and your sister should not go away together. She mentioned Tenby as being very quiet, but
she would be guided by you in that altogether."

"I do not think it will be possible, Harry. Tell her, with my love, that I am truly obliged
to her, but that I do not think it will be possible. She is free, you know, to do what she
pleases."

"Yes, she is free. But do you mean--?"

"I mean, Harry, that I had better stay where I am. What is the use of a scene, and of being
refused at last? Do not say--more about it, but tell her that it cannot be so." This Harry
premised to do, and after a while was rising to go, when she suddenly asked him a question.
"Do you remember what I was saying about Julia and Archie when you were here last?"

"Yes; I remember."

"Well, would he have a chance? It seems that you see more of her now than any one else."

"No chance at all, I should say." And Harry, as he answered, could not repress a feeling of
most unreasonable jealousy.

"Ah, you have always thought little of Archie. Archie's position is changed now, Harry, since
my darling was taken from me. Of course he will marry, and Hugh, I think, would like him to
marry Julia. It was he proposed it. He never likes anything unless he has proposed it himself."

"It was he proposed the marriage with Lord Ongar. Does he like that?"

"Well; you know Julia has got her money." Harry, as he heard this, turned away, sick at heart.
The poor baby whose mother was now speaking to him had only been buried that morning, and she
was already making fresh schemes for family wealth. Julia has got her money! That had seemed
to her, even in her sorrow, to be sufficient compensation for all that her sister had endured
and was enduring. Poor soul! Harry did not reflect as he should have done, that in all her
schemes she was only scheming for that peace which might perhaps come to her if her husband
were satisfied. "And why should not Julia take him?" she asked.

"I cannot tell why, but she never will," said Harry, almost in anger. At that moment the door
was opened, and Sir Hugh came into the room. "I did not know that you were here," Sir Hugh
said, turning to the visitor.

"I could not be down here without saying a few words to Lady Clavering."

"The less said the better, I suppose, just at present," said Sir Hugh. But there was no offence
in the tone of his voice, or in his countenance, and Harry took the words as meaning none.

"I was telling Lady Clavering that as soon as she can, she would be better if she left home
for a while."

"And why should you tell Lady Clavering that?"

"I have told him that I would not go," said the poor woman.

"Why should she go, and where; and why have you proposed it? And how does it come to pass that
her going or not going should be a matter of solicitude to you?" Now, as Sir Hugh asked these
questions of his cousin, there was much of offence in his tone--of intended offence--and in
his eye, and in all his bearing. He had turned his back upon his wife, and was looking full
into Harry's face; "Lady Clavering, no doubt, is much obliged to you," he said, "but why is
it that you specially have interfered to recommend her to leave her home at such a time as this?"

Harry had not spoken as he did to Sir Hugh without having made some calculation in his own
mind as to the result of what he was about to say. He did not, as regarded himself, care for
his cousin or his cousin's anger. His object at present was simply that of carrying out Lady
Ongar's wish, and he had thought that perhaps Sir Hugh might not object to the proposal which
his wife was too timid to make to him.

"It was a message from her sister," said Harry, "sent by me."

"Upon my word she is very kind. And what was the message--unless it be a secret between you three?"

"I have had no secret, Hugh," said his wife.

"Let me hear what he has to say," said Sir Hugh.

"Lady Ongar thought that it might be well that her sister should leave Clavering for a short
time, and has offered to go anywhere with her for a few weeks. That is all."

"And why the devil should Hermione leave her own house? And if she were to leave it, why should
she go with a woman that has misconducted herself?"

"Oh, Hugh!" exclaimed Lady Clavering.

"Lady Ongar has never misconducted herself--" said Harry.

"Are you her champion?" asked Sir Hugh.

"As far as that, I am. She has never misconducted herself; and what is more, she has been cruelly
used since she came home."

"By whom? by whom?" said Sir Hugh, stepping close up to his cousin and looking with angry eyes
into his face.

But Harry Clavering was not a man to be intimidated by the angry eyes of any man. "By you,"
he said, "her brother-in-law; by you, who made up her wretched marriage, and who, of all others,
were the most bound to protect her."

"Oh, Harry, don't, don't!" shrieked Lady Clavering.

"Hermione, hold your tongue," said the imperious husband; "or, rather, go away and leave us.
I have a word or two to say to Harry Clavering, which had better be said in private."

"I will not go if you are going to quarrel."

"Harry," said Sir Hugh, "I will trouble you to go down stairs before me. If you will step into
the breakfast-room I will come to you."

Harry Clavering did as he was bid, and in a few minutes was joined by his cousin in the breakfast-room.

"No doubt you intended to insult me by what you said up stairs." The baronet began in this
way after he had carefully shut the door, and had slowly walked up to the rug before the fire,
and had there taken his position.

"Not at all; I intended to take the part of an ill-used woman whom you had calumniated."

"Now look here, Harry, I will have no interference on your part in my affairs, either here
or elsewhere. You are a very fine fellow, no doubt, but it is not part of your business to
set me or my house in order. After what you have just said before Lady Clavering, you will
do well not to come here in my absence."

"Neither in your absence nor in your presence."

"As to the latter you may do as you please. And now, touching my sister-in-law, I will simply
recommend you to look after your own affairs."

"I shall look after what affairs I please."

"Of Lady Ongar and her life since her marriage I dare say you know as little as anybody in
the world, and I do not: suppose it likely that you will learn much from her. She made a fool
of you once, and it is on the cards that she may do so again."

"You said just now that you would brook no interference in your affairs. Neither will I."

"I don't know that you have any affairs in which any one can interfere. I have been given to
understand that you are engaged to marry that young lady whom your mother brought here one
day to dinner. If that be so, I do not see how you can reconcile it to yourself to become the
champion, as you called it, of Lady Ongar."

"I never said anything of the kind."

"Yes, you did."

"No; it was you who asked me whether I was her champion."

"And you said you were."

"So far as to defend her name when I heard it traduced by you."

"By heavens, your impudence is beautiful. Who knows her best, do you think--you or I? Whose
sister-in-law is she? You have told me I was cruel to her. Now to that I will not submit, and
I require you to apologize to me."

"I have no apology to make, and nothing to retract."

"Then I shall tell your father of your gross misconduct, and shall warn him that you have made
it necessary for me to turn his son out of my house. You are an impertinent, overbearing puppy,
and if your name were not the same as my own, I would tell the grooms to horsewhip you off
the place."

"Which order, you know, the grooms would not obey. They would a deal sooner horsewhip you.
Sometimes I think they will, when I hear you speak to them."

"Now go!"

"Of course I shall go. What would keep me here?"

Sir Hugh then opened the door, and Harry passed through it, not without a cautious look over
his shoulder, so that he might be on his guard if any violence were contemplated. But Hugh
knew better than that, and allowed his cousin to walk out of the room, and out of the house,
unmolested.

And this had happened on the day of the funeral! Harry Clavering had quarrelled thus with the
father within a few hours of the moment in which they two had stood together over the grave
of that father's only child! As he thought of this while he walked across the park, he became
sick at heart. How vile, wretched and miserable was the world around him! How terribly vicious
were the people with whom he was dealing! And what could he think of himself--of himself, who
was engaged to Florence Burton, and engaged also, as he certainly was, to Lady Ongar? Even
his cousin had rebuked him for his treachery to Florence; but what would his cousin have said
had he known all? And then what good had he done; or, rather, what evil had he not done? In
his attempt on behalf of Lady Clavering, had he not, in truth, interfered without proper excuse,
and fairly laid himself open to anger from his cousin? And he felt that he had been an ass,
a fool, a conceited ass, thinking that he could produce good, when his interference could be
efficacious only for evil. Why could he not have held his tongue when Sir Hugh came in, instead
of making that vain suggestion as to Lady Clavering? But even this trouble was but an addition
to the great trouble that overwhelmed him. How was he to escape the position which he had made
for himself in reference to Lady Ongar? As he had left London he had promised to himself that
he would write to her that same night and tell her everything as to Florence; but the night
had passed, and the next day was nearly gone, and no such letter had been written.

Chapter XXVI

Too Many, And Too Few

As he sat with his father that evening, he told the story of his quarrel with his cousin. His
father shrugged his shoulders and raised his eyebrows. "You are a bolder man than I am," he
said. "I certainly should not have dared to advise Hugh as to what he should do with his wife."

"But I did not advise him. I only said that I had been talking to her about it. If he were
to say to you that he had been recommending my mother to do this or that, you would not take
it amiss?"

"But Hugh is a peculiar man."

"No man has a right to be peculiar. Every man is bound to accept such usage as is customary
in the world."

"I don't suppose that it will signify much," said the rector. "To have your cousin's doors
barred against you, either here or in London, will not injure you."

"Oh, no; it will not injure me; but I do not wish you to think that I have been unreasonable."

The night went by and so did the next day, and still the letter did not get itself written.
On the third morning after the funeral he heard that Sir Hugh had gone away; but he, of course,
did not go up to the house, remembering well that he had been warned by the master not to do
so in the master's absence. His mother, however, went to Lady Clavering, and some intercourse
between the families was renewed. He had intended to stay but one day after the funeral, but
at the end of a week he was still at the rectory. It was Whitsuntide he said, and he might
as well take his holiday as he was down there. Of course they were glad that he should remain
with them, but they did not fail to perceive that things with him were not altogether right;
nor had Fanny failed to perceive that he had not once mentioned Florence's name since he had
been at the rectory.

"Harry," she said, "there is nothing wrong between you and Florence?"

"Wrong! what should there be wrong? What do you mean by wrong?"

"I had a letter from her to-day, and she asks where you are."

"Women expect such a lot of letter-writing! But I have been remiss I know. I got out of my
business way of doing things when I came down here and have neglected it. Do you write to her
to-morrow, and tell her that she shall hear from me directly I get back to town."

"But why should you not write to her from here?"

"Because I can get you to do it for me."

Fanny felt that this was not at all like a lover, and not at all like such a lover as her brother
had been. While Florence had been at Clavering he had been most constant with his letters,
and Fanny had often heard Florence boast of them as being perfect in their way. She did not
say anything further at the present moment, but she knew that things were not altogether right.
Things were by no means right. He had written neither to Lady Ongar nor to Florence, and the
longer he put off the task the more burdensome did it become. He was now telling himself that
he would write to neither till he got back to London.

On the day before he went, there came to him a letter from Stratton. Fanny was with him when
he received it, and observed that he put it into his pocket without opening it. In his pocket
he carried it unopened half the day, till he was ashamed of his own weakness. At last, almost
in despair with himself, he broke the seal and forced himself to read it. There was nothing
in it that need have alarmed him. It contained hardly a word that was intended for a rebuke.

"I wonder why you should have been two whole weeks without writing," she said. "It seems so
odd to me, because you have spoiled me by your customary goodness. I know that other men when
they are engaged do not trouble themselves with constant letter-writing. Even Theodore, who,
according to Cecilia, is perfect, would not write to her then very often; and now, when he
is away, his letters are only three lines. I suppose you are teaching me not to be exacting.
If so, I will kiss the rod like a good child; but I feel it the more because the lesson has
not come soon enough."

Then she went on in her usual strain, telling him of what she had done, what she had read and
what she had thought. There was no suspicion in her letters no fear, no hint at jealousy. And
she should have no further cause for jealousy! One of the two must be sacrificed, and it was
most fitting that Julia should be the sacrifice. Julia should be sacrificed--Julia and himself!
But still he could not write to Florence till he had written to Julia. He could not bring himself
to send soft, pretty, loving words to one woman while the other was still regarding him as
her affianced lover.

"Was your letter from Florence this morning?" Fanny asked.

"Yes; it was."

"Had she received mine?"

"I don't know. Of course she had. If you sent it by post of course she got it."

"She might have mentioned it, perhaps."

"I daresay she did. I don't remember."

"Well, Harry you need not be cross with me because I love the girl who is going to be your
wife. You would not like it if I did not care about her."

"I hate being called cross."

"Suppose I were to say that I hated your being cross. I'm sure I do; and you are going away
to-morrow, too. You have hardly said a nice word to me since you have been home."

Harry threw himself back into a chair almost in despair. He was not enough a hypocrite to say
nice words when his heart within him was not at ease. He could not bring himself to pretend
that things were pleasant.

"If you are in trouble, Harry, I will not go on teasing you."

"I am in trouble," he said.

"And cannot I help you?"

"No; you cannot help me. No one can help me. But do not ask any questions."

"Oh, Harry! is it about money?"

"No, no; it has nothing to do with money."

"You have not really quarrelled with Florence?"

"No; I have not quarrelled with her at all. But I will not answer more questions. And, Fanny,
do not speak of this to my father or mother. It will be over before long, and then, if possible,
I will tell you."

"Harry, you are not going to fight with Hugh?"

"Fight with Hugh! no. Not that I should mind it; but he is not fool enough for that. If he
wanted fighting done, he would do it by deputy. But there is nothing of that kind."

She asked him no more questions, and on the next morning he returned to London. On his table
he found a note which he at once knew to be from Lady Ongar, and which had come only that afternoon.

"Come to me at once; at once." That was all that note contained. Fanny Clavering, while she
was inquiring of her brother about his troubles, had not been without troubles of her own.
For some days past she had been aware--almost aware--that Mr. Saul's love was not among the
things that were past. I am not prepared to say that this conviction on her part was altogether
an unalloyed trouble, or that there might have been no faint touch of sadness, of silent melancholy
about her, had it been otherwise. But Mr. Saul was undoubtedly a trouble to her; and Mr. Saul
with his love in activity would be more troublesome than Mr. Saul with his love in abeyance.
"It would be madness either in him or in me," Fanny had said to herself very often; "he has
not a shilling in the world." But she thought no more in these days of the awkwardness of his
gait, or of his rusty clothes, or his abstracted manner; and for his doings as a clergyman
her admiration had become very great. Her mother saw something of all this, and cautioned her;
but Fanny's demure manner deceived Mrs. Clavering. "Oh, mamma, of course I know that anything
of the kind must be impossible; and I'm sure he does not think of it himself any longer." When
she had said this, Mrs. Clavering had believed that it was all right. The reader must not suppose
that Fanny had been a hypocrite. There had been no hypocrisy in her words to her mother. At
that moment the conviction that Mr. Saul's love was not among past events had not reached her;
and as regarded, herself; she was quite sincere when she said that anything of the kind must
be impossible.

It will be remembered that Florence Burton had advised Mr. Saul to try again, and that Mr.
Saul had resolved that he would do so--resolving, also, that should he try in vain he must
leave Clavering and seek another home. He was a solemn, earnest, thoughtful man; to whom such
a matter as this was a phase of life very serious, causing infinite present trouble, nay, causing
tribulation, and, to the same extent, capable of causing infinite joy. From day to day he went
about his work, seeing her amid his ministrations almost daily. And never during these days
did he say a word to her of his love--never since that day in which he had plainly pleaded
his cause in the muddy lane. To no one but Florence Burton had he since spoken of it, and Florence
had certainly been true to her trust; but, notwithstanding all that, Fanny's conviction was
very strong.

Florence had counselled Mr. Saul to try again, and Mr. Saul was prepared to make the attempt;
but he was a man who allowed himself to do nothing in a hurry. He thought much of the matter
before he could prepare himself to recur to the subject; doubting, sometimes, whether he would
be right to do so without first speaking to Fanny's father; doubting, afterward, whether he
might not best serve his cause by asking the assistance of Fanny's mother. But he resolved
at last that he would depend on himself alone. As to the rector, if his suit to Fanny were
a fault against Mr. Clavering as Fanny's father, that fault had been already committed. But
Mr. Saul would not admit himself that it was a fault. I fancy that he considered himself to
have, as a gentleman, a right to address himself to any lady with whom he was thrown into close
contact. I fancy that he ignored all want of worldly preparation--never for a moment attempting
to place himself on a footing with men who were richer than himself; and, as the world goes,
brighter, but still feeling himself to be in no way lower than they. If any woman so lived
as to show that she thought his line better than their line, it was open to him to ask such
a woman to join her lot to his. If he failed, the misfortune was his; and the misfortune, as
he well knew, was one which it was hard to bear. And as to the mother, though he had learned
to love Mrs. Clavering dearly--appreciating her kindness to all those around her, her conduct
to her husband, her solicitude in the parish, all her genuine goodness, still he was averse
to trust to her for any part of his success. Though Mr. Saul was no knight, though he had nothing
knightly about him, though he was a poor curate in very rusty clothes and with manner strangely
unfitted for much communion with the outer world, still he had a feeling that the spoil which
he desired to win should be won by his own spear, and that his triumph would lose half its
glory if it were not achieved by his own prowess. He was no coward, even in such matters as
this, or in any other. When circumstances demanded that he should speak he could speak his
mind freely, with manly vigor, and sometimes not without a certain manly grace.

How did Fanny know that it was coming? She did know it, though he had said nothing to her beyond
his usual parish communications. He was often with her in the two schools; often returned with
her in the sweet Spring evenings along the lane that led back to the rectory from Cumberly
Green; often inspected with her the little amounts of parish charities and entries of pence
collected from such parents as could pay. He had never reverted to that other subject. But
yet Fanny knew that it was coming, and when she had questioned Harry about his troubles she
had been thinking also of her own.

It was now the middle of May, and the Spring was giving way to the early Summer almost before
the Spring had itself arrived. It is so, I think, in these latter years. The sharpness of March
prolongs itself almost through April, and then, while we are still hoping for the Spring, there
falls upon us suddenly a bright, dangerous, delicious gleam of Summer. The lane from Cumberly
Green was no longer muddy, and Fanny could go backward and forward between the parsonage and
her distant school without that wading for which feminine apparel is so unsuited. One evening,
just as she had finished her work, Mr. Saul's head appeared at the school-door, and he asked
her whether she were about to return home. As soon as she saw his eye and heard his voice,
she feared that the day was come. She was prepared with no new answer, and could only give
the answer that she had given before. She had always told herself that it was impossible; and
as to all other questions, about her own heart or such like, she had put such questions away
from her as being unnecessary, and, perhaps, unseemly. The thing was impossible, and should
therefore be put away out of thought, as a matter completed and at an end. But now the time
was come, and she almost wished that she had been more definite in her own resolutions.

"Yes, Mr. Saul, I have just done."

"I will walk with you, if you will let me." Then Fanny spoke some words of experienced wisdom
to two or three girls, in order that she might show to them, to him, and to herself that she
was quite collected. She lingered in the room for a few minutes, and was very wise and very
experienced. "I am quite ready now, Mr. Saul." So saying, she came forth upon the green lane,
and he followed her.

Chapter XXVII

Cumberly Lane Without The Mud

They walked on in silence for a little way, and then he asked her some question about Florence
Burton. Fanny told him that she had heard from Stratton two days since, and that Florence was well.

"I liked her very much," said Mr. Saul.

"So did we all. She is coming here again in the Autumn; so it will not be very long before
you see her again."

"How that may be I cannot tell, but if you see her that will be of more consequence."

"We shall all see her, of course."

"It was here, in this lane, that I was with her last, and wished her good-by. She did not tell
you of my having parted with her, then?"

"Not especially, that I remember."

"Ah, you would have remembered if she had told you; but she was quite right not to tell you."
Fanny was now a little confused, so that she could not exactly calculate what all this meant.
Mr. Saul walked on by her side, and for some moments nothing was said. After a while he recurred
again to his parting from Florence. "I asked her advice on that occasion, and she gave it me
clearly--with a clear purpose and an assured voice. I like a person who will do that. You are
sure then that you are getting the truth out of your friend, even if it be a simple negative,
or a refusal to give any reply to the question asked."

"Florence Burton is always clear in what she says."

"I had asked her if she thought that I might venture to hope for a more favorable answer if
I urged my suit to you again."

"She cannot have said yes to that, Mr. Saul; she cannot have done so!"

"She did not do so. She simply bade me ask yourself. And she was right. On such a matter there
is no one to whom I can with propriety address myself, but to yourself. Therefore I now ask
you the question. May I venture to have any hope?"

His voice was so solemn, and there was so much of eager seriousness in his face that Fanny
could not bring herself to answer him with quickness. The answer that was in her mind was in
truth this: "How can you ask me to try to love a man who has but seventy pounds a year in the
world, while I myself have nothing?" But there was something in his demeanor--something that
was almost grand in its gravity--which made it quite impossible that she should speak to him
in that tone. But he, having asked his question, waited for an answer; and she was well aware
that the longer she delayed it, the weaker became the ground on which she was standing.

"It is quite impossible," she said at last.

"If it really be so--if you will say again that it is so after hearing me out to an end, I
will desist. In that case I will desist and leave you--and leave Clavering."

"Oh, Mr. Saul, do not do that--for papa's sake, and because of the parish."

"I would do much for your father, and as to the parish I love it well. I do not think I can
make you understand how well I love it. It seems to me that I can never again have the same
feeling for any place that I have for this. There is not a house, a field, a green lane, that
is not dear to me. It is like a first love. With some people a first love will come so strongly
that it makes a renewal of the passion impossible." He did not say that it would be so with
himself; but it seemed to her that he intended that she should so understand him.

"I do not see why you should leave Clavering," she said.

"If you knew the nature of my regard for yourself, you would see why it should be so. I do
not say that there ought to be any such necessity. If I were strong there would be no such
need. But I am weak--weak in this; and I could not hold myself under such control as is wanted
for the work I have to do." When he had spoken of his love for the place--for the parish, there
had been something of passion in his language; but now in the words which he spoke of himself
and of his feeling for her, he was calm and reasonable and tranquil, and talked of his going
away from her as he might have talked had some change of air been declared necessary for his
health. She felt that this was so, and was almost angry with him.

"Of course you must know what will be best for yourself;" she said.

"Yes; I know now what I must do, if such is to be your answer. I have made up my mind as to
that. I cannot remain at Clavering, if I am told that I may never hope that you will become
my wife."

"But, Mr. Saul--"

"Well; I am listening. But before you speak, remember how all-important your words will be to me."

"No; they cannot be all-important."

"As regards my present happiness and rest in this world they will be so. Of course I know that
nothing you can say or do will hurt me beyond that. But you might help me even to that further
and greater bliss. You might help me too in that--as I also might help you."

"But, Mr. Saul--" she began again, and then, feeling that she must go on, she forced herself
to utter words which at the time she felt to be commonplace. "People cannot marry without an
income. Mr. Fielding did not think of such a thing till he had a living assured to him."

"But, independently of that, might I hope?" She ventured for an instant to glance at his face,
and saw that his eyes were glistening with a wonderful brightness.

"How can I answer you further? Is not that reason enough why such a thing should not be even
discussed?"

"No, Miss Clavering, it is not reason enough. If you were to tell me that you could never love
me--me, personally--that you could never regard me with affection, that would be reason why
I should desist--why I should abandon all my hope here, and go away from Clavering for ever.
Nothing else can be reason enough. My being poor ought not to make you throw me aside if you
loved me. If it were so that you loved me, I think you would owe it me to say so, let me be
ever so poor."

"I do not like you the less because you are poor."

"But do you like me at all? Can you bring yourself to love me? Would you make the effort if
I had such an income as you thought necessary? If I had such riches, could you teach yourself
to regard me as him whom you were to love better than all the world beside? I call upon you
to answer me that question truly; and if you tell me that it could be so, I will not despair,
and I will not go away."

As he said this they came to a turn in the road which brought the parsonage gate within their
view. Fanny knew that she would leave him there and go in alone, but she knew also that she
must say something further to him before she could thus escape. She did not wish to give him
an assurance of her positive indifference to him--and still less did she wish to tell him that
he might hope. It could not be possible that such an engagement should be approved by her father,
nor could she bring herself to think that she could be quite contented with a lover such as
Mr. Saul. When he had first proposed to her she had almost ridiculed his proposition in her
heart. Even now there was something in it that was almost ridiculous--and yet there was something
in it also that touched her as being sublime. The man was honest, good and true--perhaps the
best and truest man that she had ever known. She could not bring herself to say to him any
word that should banish him forever from the place he loved so well.

"If you know your own heart well enough to answer me, you should do so," he went on to say.
"If you do not, say so, and I will be content to wait your own time."

"It would be better, Mr. Saul, that you should not think of this any more."

"No, Miss Clavering; that would not be better--not for me, for it would prove me to be utterly
heartless. I am not heartless. I love you dearly. I will not say that I cannot live without
you; but it is my one great hope as regards this world, that I should have you at some future
day as my own. It may be that I am too prone to hope; but surely, if that were altogether beyond
hope, you would have found words to tell me so by this time." They had now come to the gateway,
and he paused as she put her trembling hand upon the latch.

"I cannot say more to you now," she said.

"Then let it be so. But, Miss Clavering, I shall not leave this place till you have said more
than that. And I will speak the truth to you, even though it may offend you. I have more of
hope now than I have ever had before--more hope that you may possibly learn to love me. In
a few days I will ask you again whether I may be allowed to speak upon the subject to your
father. Now I will say farewell, and may God bless you; and remember this--that my only earthly
wish and ambition is in your hands." Then he went on his way toward his own lodgings, and she
entered the parsonage garden by herself.

What should she now do, and how should she carry herself? She would have gone to her mother
at once, were it not that she could not resolve what words she would speak to her mother. When
her mother should ask her how she regarded the man, in what way should she answer that question?
She could not tell herself that she loved Mr. Saul; and yet if she surely did not love him--if
such love were impossible--why had she not said as much to him? We, however, may declare that
that inclination to ridicule his passion, to think of him as a man who had no right to love,
was gone forever. She conceded to him clearly that right, and knew that he had exercised it
well. She knew that he was good and true and honest, and recognized in him also manly courage
and spirited resolution. She would not tell herself that it was impossible that she should
love him.

She went up at last to her room doubting, unhappy and ill at ease. To have such a secret long
kept from her mother would make her life unendurable to her. But she felt that, in speaking
to her mother, only one aspect of the affair would be possible. Even though she loved him,
how could she marry a curate whose only income was seventy pounds a year?

Chapter XXVIII

The Russian Spy

When the baby died at Clavering Park, somebody hinted that Sir Hugh would certainly quarrel
with his brother as soon as Archie should become the father of a presumptive heir to the title
and property. That such would be the case those who best knew Sir Hugh would not doubt. That
Archie should have that of which he himself had been robbed, would of itself be enough to make
him hate Archie. But, nevertheless, at this present time, he continued to instigate his brother
in that matter of the proposed marriage with Lady Ongar. Hugh, as well as others, felt that
Archie's prospects were now improved, and that he could demand the hand of a wealthy lady with
more of seeming propriety than would have belonged to such a proposition while the poor child
was living. No one would understand this better than Lady Ongar, who knew so well all the circumstances
of the family. The day after the funeral the two brothers returned to London together, and
Hugh spoke his mind in the railway carriage. "It will be no good for you to hang on about Bolton
Street, off and on, as though she were a girl of seventeen," he said.

"I'm quite up to that," said Archie. "I must let her know I'm there, of course. I understand
all that."

"Then why don't you do it? I thought you meant to go to her at once when we were talking about
it before in London."

"So I did go to her, and got on with her very well, too, considering that I hadn't been there
long when another woman came."

"But you didn't tell her what you had come about?"

"No; not exactly. You see it doesn't do to pop at once to a widow like her. Ongar, you know,
hasn't been dead six months. One has to be a little delicate in these things."

"Believe me, Archie, you had better give up all notions of being delicate, and tell her what
you want at once--plainly and fairly. You may be sure that she will not think of her former
husband, if you don't."

"Oh! I don't think about him at all."

"Who was the woman you say was there?"

"That little Frenchwoman--the sister of the man--Sophie she calls her. Sophie Gordeloup is
her name. They are bosom friends."

"The sister of that count?"

"Yes; his sister. Such a woman for talking! She said ever so much about your keeping Hermione
down in the country."

"The devil she did. What business was that of hers? That is Julia's doing."

"Well; no, I don't think so. Julia didn't say a word about it. In fact, I don't know how it
came up. But you never heard such a woman to talk--an ugly, old, hideous little creature! But
the two are always together."

"If you don't take care you'll find that Julia is married to the count while you are thinking
about it."

Then Archie began to consider whether he might not as well tell his brother of his present
scheme with reference to Julia. Having discussed the matter at great length with his confidential
friend, Captain Boodle, he had come to the conclusion that his safest course would be to bribe
Madam Gordeloup, and creep into Julia's favor by that lady's aid. Now, on his return to London,
he was about at once to play that game, and had already provided himself with funds for the
purpose. The parting with ready money was a grievous thing to Archie, though in this case the
misery would be somewhat palliated by the feeling that it was a bona-fide sporting transaction.
He would be lessening the odds against himself by a judicious hedging of his bets. "You must
stand to lose something always by the horse you mean to win," Doodles had said to him, and
Archie had recognized the propriety of the remark. He had, therefore, with some difficulty,
provided himself with funds, and was prepared to set about his hedging operations as soon as
he could find Madam Gordeloup on his return to London. He had already ascertained her address
through Doodles, and had ascertained by the unparalleled acuteness of his friend that the lady
was--a Russian spy. It would have been beautiful to have seen Archie's face when this information
was whispered into his ear, in private, at the club. It was as though he had then been made
acquainted with some great turf secret, unknown to the sporting world in general.

"Ah!" he said, drawing a long breath, "no; by George, is she?"

The same story had been told everywhere in London of the little woman for the last half dozen
years, whether truly or untruly I am not prepared to say; but it had not hitherto reached Archie
Clavering; and now, on hearing it, he felt that he was becoming a participator in the deepest
diplomatic secrets of Europe.

"By George," said he, "is she really?"

And his respect for the little woman rose a thousand per cent.

"That's what she is," said Doodles, "and it's a doosed fine thing for you, you know! Of course
you can make her safe, and that will be everything."

Archie resolved at once that he would use the great advantage which chance and the ingenuity
of his friend had thrown in his way; but that necessity of putting money in his purse was a
sore grievance to him, and it occurred to him that it would be a grand thing if he could induce
his brother to help him in this special matter. If he could only make Hugh see the immense
advantage of an alliance with the Russian spy, Hugh could hardly avoid contributing to the
expense--of course on the understanding that all such moneys were to be repaid when the Russian
spy's work had been brought to a successful result. Russian spy! There was in the very sound
of the words something so charming that it almost made Archie in love with the outlay. A female
Russian spy too! Sophie Gordeloup certainly retained but very few of the charms of womanhood,
nor had her presence as a lady affected Archie with any special pleasure; but yet he felt infinitely
more pleased with the affair than he would have been had she been a man spy. The intrigue was
deeper. His sense of delight in the mysterious wickedness of the thing was enhanced by an additional
spice. It is not given to every man to employ the services of a political Russian lady-spy
in his love-affairs! As he thought of it in all its bearings, he felt that he was almost a
Talleyrand, or, at any rate, a Palmerston.

Should he tell his brother? If he could represent the matter in such a light to his brother
as to induce Hugh to produce the funds for purchasing the spy's services, the whole thing would
be complete with a completeness that has rarely been equalled. But he doubted. Hugh was a hard
man--a hard, unimaginative man, and might possibly altogether refuse to believe in the Russian
spy. Hugh believed in little but what he himself saw, and usually kept a very firm grasp upon
his money.

"That Madam Gordeloup is always with Julia," Archie said, trying the way, as it were, before
he told his plan.

"Of course she will help her brother's views."

"I'm not so sure of that. Some of these foreign women ain't like other women at all. They go
deeper--a doosed sight deeper."

"Into men's pockets, you mean."

"They play a deep game altogether. What do you suppose she is, now?" This question Archie asked
in a whisper, bending his head forward toward his brother, though there was no one else in
the carriage with them.

"What she is? A thief of some kind, probably. I've no doubt she's up to any roguery."

"She's a--Russian spy."

"Oh, I've heard of that for the last dozen years. All the ugly old Frenchwomen in London are
Russian spies, according to what people say; but the Russians know how to use their money better
than that. If they employ spies, they employ people who can spy something."

Archie felt this to be cruel--very cruel, but he said nothing further about it. His brother
was stupid, pigheaded, obstinate, and quite unfitted by nature for affairs of intrigue. It
was, alas, certain that his brother would provide no money for such a purpose as that he now
projected; but, thinking of this, he found some consolation in the reflection that Hugh would
not be a participator with him in his great secret. When he should have bought the Russian
spy, he and Doodles would rejoice together in privacy without any third confederate. Triumviri
might be very well; Archie also had heard of triumviri; but two were company, and three were
none. Thus he consoled himself when his pigheaded brother expressed his disbelief in the Russian
spy.

There was nothing more said between them in the railway carriage, and, as they parted at the
door in Berkeley Square, Hugh swore to himself that this should be the last season in which
he would harbor his brother in London. After this he must have a house of his own there, or
have no house at all. Then Archie went down to his club, and finally arranged with Doodles
that the first visit to the spy should be made on the following morning. After much consultation
it was agreed between them that the way should be paved by a diplomatic note. The diplomatic
note was therefore written by Doodles and copied by Archie.

"Captain Clavering presents his compliments to Madam Gordeloup, and proposes to call upon her
to-morrow morning at twelve o'clock, if that hour will be convenient. Captain Clavering is
desirous of consulting Madam Gordeloup on an affair of much importance." "Consult me!" said
Sophie to herself, when she got the letter. "For what should he consult me? It is that stupid
man I saw with Julie. Ah, well; never mind. The stupid man shall come." The commissioner, therefore,
who had taken the letter to Mount Street, returned to the club with a note in which Madam Gordeloup
expressed her willingness to undergo the proposed interview. Archie felt that the letter--a
letter from a Russian spy addressed positively to himself--gave him already diplomatic rank,
and he kept it as a treasure in his breast coat-pocket.

It then became necessary that he and his friend should discuss the manner in which the spy
should be managed. Doodles had his misgivings that Archie would be awkward, and almost angered
his friend by the repetition of his cautions. "You mustn't chuck your money at her head, you
know," said Doodles.

"Of course not; but when the time comes I shall slip the notes into her hand--with a little
pressure perhaps."

"It would be better to leave them near her on the table."

"Do you think so?"

"Oh, yes; a great deal. It's always done in that way."

"But perhaps she wouldn't see them--or wouldn't know where they came from."

"Let her alone for that."

"But I must make her understand what I want of her--in return, you know. I ain't going to give
her twenty pounds for nothing."

"You must explain that at first; tell her that you expect her aid, and that she will find you
a grateful friend--a grateful friend, say; mind you remember that."

"Yes; I'll remember that. I suppose it would be as good a way as any."

"It's the only way, unless you want her to ring for the servant to kick you out of the house.
It's as well understood as A B C, among the people who do these things. I should say take jewelry
instead of money if she were anything but a Russian spy; but they understand the thing so well,
that you may go further with them than with others."

Archie's admiration for Sophie became still higher as he heard this. "I do like people," said
he, "who understand what's what, and no mistake."

"But even with her you must be very careful."

"Oh, yes; that's a matter of course."

"When I was declaring for the last time that she would find me a grateful friend, just at the
word grateful, I would put down the four flyers on the table, smoothing them with my hand like
that." Then Doodles acted the part, putting a great deal of emphasis on the word 'grateful'
as he went through the smoothing ceremony with two or three sheets of club note paper. "That's
your game, you may be sure. If you put them into her hand she may feel herself obliged to pretend
to be angry; but she can't be angry simply because you put your money on her table. Do you
see that, old fellow?" Archie declared that he did see it very plainly. "If she does not choose
to undertake the job, she'll merely have to tell you that you have left something behind you."

"But there's no fear of that, I suppose?"

"I can't say. Her hands may be full, you know, or she may think you don't go high enough."

"But I mean to tip her again, of course."

"Again! I should think so. I suppose she must have about a couple of hundred before the end
of next month if she's to do any good. After a bit you'll be able to explain that she shall
have a sum down when the marriage has come off."

"She won't take the money and do nothing; will she?"

"Oh, no; they never sell you like that. It would spoil their own business if they were to play
that game. If you can make it worth her while, she'll do the work for you. But you must be
careful; do remember that." Archie shook his head, almost in anger, and then went home for
his night's rest.

On the next morning he dressed himself in his best, and presented himself at the door in Mount
Street, exactly as the clock struck twelve. He had an idea that these people were very punctilious
as to time. Who could say but that the French ambassador might have an appointment with Madam
Gordeloup at half-past one--or perhaps some emissary from the Pope! He had resolved that he
would not take his left glove off his hand, and he had thrust the notes in under the palm of
his glove, thinking he could get at them easier from there, should they be wanted in a moment,
than he could do from his waistcoat pocket. He knocked at the door, knowing that he trembled
as he did so, and felt considerable relief when he found himself to be alone in the room to
which he was shown. He knew that men conversant with intrigues always go to work with their
eyes open, and, therefore, at once he began to look about him. Could he not put the money into
some convenient hiding-place--now at once? There, in one corner, was the spot in which she
would seat herself upon the sofa. He saw plainly enough, as with the eye of a Talleyrand, the
marks thereon of her constant sitting. So he seized the moment to place a chair suitable for
himself, and cleared a few inches on the table near to it, for the smoothing of the bank-notes--feeling,
while so employed, that he was doing great things. He had almost made up his mind to slip one
note between the pages of a book, not with any well-defined plan as to the utility of such
a measure, but because it seemed to be such a diplomatic thing to do! But while this grand
idea was still flashing backward and forward across his brain, the door opened, and he found
himself in the presence of--the Russian spy.

He at once saw that the Russian spy was very dirty, and that she wore a nightcap, but he liked
her the better on that account. A female Russian spy should, he felt, differ much in her attire
from other women. If possible, she should be arrayed in diamonds, and pearl ear-drops, with
as little else upon her as might be; but failing that costume, which might be regarded as the
appropriate evening spy costume, a tumbled nightcap, and a dirty, white wrapper, old cloth
slippers, and objectionable stockings, were just what they should be.

"Ah!" said the lady, "you are Captain Clavering. Yes, I remember."

"I am Captain Clavering. I had the honor of meeting you at Lady Ongar's."

"And now you wish to consult me on an affair of great importance. Very well. You may consult
me. Will you sit down--there." And Madam Gordeloup indicated to him a chair just opposite to
herself, and far removed from that convenient spot which Archie had prepared for the smoothing
of the bank-notes. Near to the place now assigned to him there was no table whatever, and he
felt that he would in that position be so completely raked by the fire of her keen eyes, that
he would not be able to carry on his battle upon good terms. In spite, therefore, of the lady's
very plain instructions, he made an attempt to take possession of the chair which he had himself
placed; but it was an ineffectual attempt, for the spy was very peremptory with him. "There,
Captain Clavering; there; there; you will be best there." Then he did as he was bid, and seated
himself; as it were, quite out at sea, with nothing but an ocean of carpet around him, and
with no possibility of manipulating his notes except under the raking fire of those terribly
sharp eyes. "And now," said Madam Gordeloup, "you can commence to consult me. What is the business?"

Ah; what was the business? That was now the difficulty? In discussing the proper way of tendering
the bank-notes, I fear the two captains had forgotten the nicest point of the whole negotiation.
How was he to tell her what it was that he wanted to do himself, and what that she was to be
required to do for him? It behooved him above all things not to be awkward! That he remembered.
But how not to be awkward? "Well!" she said; and there was something almost of crossness in
her tone. Her time, no doubt, was valuable. The French ambassador might even now be coming. "Well?"

"I think, Madam Gordeloup, you know my brother's sister-in-law, Lady Ongar?"

"What, Julie? Of course I know Julie. Julie and I are dear friends."

"So I supposed. That is the reason why I have come to you."

"Well--well--well?"

"Lady Ongar is a person whom I have known for a long times and for whom I have a great--I may
say--a very deep regard."

"Ah! yes. What a jointure she has! and what a park! Thousands and thousands of pounds--and
so beautiful! If I was a man I should have a very deep regard, too. Yes."

"A most beautiful creature, is she not?"

"Ah; if you had seen her in Florence, as I used to see her, in the long Summer evenings! Her
lovely hair was all loose to the wind, and she would sit hour after hour looking, oh, at the
stars! Have you seen the stars in Italy?"

Captain Clavering couldn't say that he had, but he had seen them uncommon bright in Norway,
when he had been fishing there.

"Or the moon?" continued Sophie, not regarding his answer. "Ah; that is to live! And he, her
husband, the rich lord, he was dying, in a little room just inside, you know. It was very melancholy,
Captain Clavering. But when she was looking at the moon with her hair all dishevelled," and
Sophie put her hands up to her own dirty nightcap--"she was just like a Magdalen; yes, just
the same; just the same."

The exact strength of the picture, and the nature of the comparison drawn, were perhaps lost
upon Archie; and, indeed, Sophie herself probably trusted more to the tone of her words, than
to any idea which they contained; but their tone was perfect, and she felt that if anything
could make him talk, he would talk now.

"Dear me! you don't say so. I have always admired her very much, Madam Gordeloup."

"Well?"

The French ambassador was probably in the next street already, and if Archie was to tell his
tale at all, he must do it now.

"You will keep my secret if I tell it you?" he asked.

"Is it me you ask that? Did you ever hear of me that I tell a gentleman's secret? I think not.
If you have a secret, and will trust me, that will be good; if you will not trust me--that
will be good also."

"Of course I will trust you. That is why I have come here."

"Then out with it. I am not a little girl. You need not be bashful. Two and two make four.
I know that. But some people want them to make five. I know that, too. So speak out what you
have to say."

"I am going to ask Lady Ongar to--to--to--marry me."

"Ah, indeed; with all the thousands of pounds and the beautiful park! But the beautiful hair
is more than all the thousands of pounds. Is it not so?"

"Well, as to that, they all go together, you know."

"And that is so lucky! If they was to be separated, which would you take?"

The little woman grinned as she asked this question, and Archie, had he at all understood her
character, might at once have put himself on a pleasant footing with her; but he was still
confused and ill at ease, and only muttered something about the truth of his love for Julia.

"And you want to get her to marry you?"

"Yes; that's just it."

"And you want me to help you?

"That's just it again."

"Well?"

"Upon my word, if you'll stick to me, you know, and see me through it, and all that kind of
thing, you'll find in me a most grateful friend; indeed, a most grateful friend." And Archie,
as from his position he was debarred from attempting the smoothing process, began to work with
his right forefinger under the glove on his left hand.

"What have you got there?" said Madam Gordeloup, looking at him with all her eyes.

Captain Clavering instantly discontinued the work with his finger, and became terribly confused.
Her voice on asking the question had become very sharp; and it seemed to him that if he brought
out his money in that awkward, barefaced way, which now seemed to be necessary, she would display
all the wrath of which a Russian spy could be capable. Would it not be better that he should
let the money rest for the present, and trust to his promise of gratitude? Ah, how he wished
that he had slipped at any rate one note between the pages of a book.

"What have you got there?" she demanded again, very sharply.

"Oh, nothing."

"It is not nothing. What have you got there? If you have got nothing, take off your glove. Come."

Captain Clavering became very red in the face, and was altogether at a loss what to say or do.

"Is it money you have got there?" she asked. "Let me see how much. Come."

"It is just a few bank-notes I put in here to be handy," he said.

"Ah; that is very handy, certainly. I never saw that custom before. Let me look." Then she
took his hand, and with her own hooked finger clawed out the notes. "Ah! five, ten, fifteen,
twenty pounds. Twenty pounds is not a great deal, but it is very nice to have even that always
handy. I was wanting so much money as that myself; perhaps you will make it handy to me."

"Upon my word I shall be most happy. Nothing on earth would give me more pleasure."

"Fifty pounds would give me more pleasure; just twice as much pleasure." Archie had begun to
rejoice greatly at the safe disposition of the money, and to think how excellently well this
spy did her business; but now there came upon him suddenly an idea that spies perhaps might
do their business too well. "Twenty pounds in this country goes a very little way; you are
all so rich," said the spy.

"By George, I ain't. I ain't rich, indeed."

"But you mean to be--with Julie's money?"

"Oh--ah--yes; and you ought to know, Madam Gordeloup, that I am now the heir to the family
estate and title."

"Yes; the poor little baby is dead, in spite of the pills and the powders, the daisies and
the buttercups! Poor little baby! I had a baby of my own once, and that died also." Whereupon
Madam Gordeloup, putting up her hand to her eyes, wiped away a real tear with the bank-notes
which she still held. "And I am to remind Julie that you will be the heir?"

"She will know all about that already."

"But I will tell her. It will be something to say, at any rate--and that, perhaps, will be
the difficulty."

"Just so! I didn't look at it in that light before."

"And am I to propose it to her first?"

"Well; I don't know. Perhaps as you are so clever, it might be as well."

"And at once?"

"Yes, certainly; at once. You see, Madam Gordeloup, there may be so many buzzing about her."

"Exactly; and some of them perhaps will have more than twenty pounds handy. Some will buzz
better than that."

"Of course I didn't mean that for anything more than just a little compliment to begin with."

"Oh, ah; just a little compliment for beginning. And when will it be making a progress and
going on?"

"Making a progress!"

"Yes; when will the compliment become a little bigger? Twenty pounds! Oh! it's just for a few
gloves, you know; nothing more."

"Nothing more than that, of course," said poor Archie.

"Well; when will the compliment grow bigger? Let me see. Julie has seven thousands of pounds,
what you call, per annum. And have you seen that beautiful park? Oh! And if you can make her
to look at the moon with her hair down--oh! When will that compliment grow bigger? Twenty pounds!
I am ashamed, you know."

"When will you see her, Madam Gordeloup?"

"See her! I see her every day, always. I will be there to-day, and to-morrow, and the next day."

"You might say a word then at once--this afternoon."

"What! for twenty pounds! Seven thousands of pounds per annum; and you give me twenty pounds!
Fie, Captain Clavering. It is only just for me to speak to you--this! That is all. Come; when
will you bring me fifty?"

"By George--fifty!"

"Yes; fifty; for another beginning. What; seven thousands of pounds per annum, and make difficulty
for fifty pounds! You have a handy way with your glove. Will you come with fifty pounds to-morrow?"
Archie, with the drops of perspiration standing on his brow, and now desirous of getting out
again into the street, promised that he would come again on the following day with the required
sum.

"Just for another beginning! And now, good-morning, Captain Clavering. I will do my possible
with Julie. Julie is very fond of me, and I think you have been right in coming here. But twenty
pounds was too little, even for a beginning." Mercenary wretch; hungry, greedy, ill-conditioned
woman--altogether of the harpy breed! As Archie Clavering looked into her gray eyes, and saw
there her greed and her hunger, his flesh crept upon his bones. Should he not succeed with
Julia, how much would this excellent lady cost him?

As soon as he was gone the excellent lady made an intolerable grimace, shaking herself and
shrugging her shoulders, and walking up and down the room with her dirty wrapper held close
round her. "Bah," she said. "Bah!" And as she thought of the heavy stupidity of her late visitor
she shrugged herself and shook herself again violently, and clutched up her robe still more
closely. "Bah!" It was intolerable to her that a man should be such a fool, even though she
was to make money by him. And then, that such a man should conceive it to be possible that
he should become the husband of a woman with seven thousand pounds a year! Bah!

Archie, as he walked away from Mount Street, found it difficult to create a triumphant feeling
within his own bosom. He had been awkward, slow and embarrassed, and the spy had been too much
for him. He was quite aware of that, and he was aware also that even the sagacious Doodles
had been wrong. There had, at any rate, been no necessity for making a difficulty about the
money. The Russian spy had known her business too well to raise troublesome scruples on that
point. That she was very good at her trade he was prepared to acknowledge; but a fear came
upon him that he would find the article too costly for his own purposes. He remembered the
determined tone in which she had demanded the fifty pounds merely as a further beginning.

And then he could not but reflect how much had been said at the interview about money--about
money for her, and how very little had been said as to the assistance to be given--as to the
return to be made for the money. No plan had been laid down, no times fixed, no facilities
for making love suggested to him. He had simply paid over his twenty pounds, and been desired
to bring another fifty. The other fifty he was to take to Mount Street on the morrow. What
if she were to require fifty pounds every day, and declare that she could not stir in the matter
for less? Doodles, no doubt, had told him that these first-class Russian spies did well the
work for which they were paid; and no doubt, if paid according to her own tariff, Madam Gordeloup
would work well for him; but such a tariff as that was altogether beyond his means! It would
be imperatively necessary that he should come to some distinct settlement with her as to price.
The twenty pounds, of course, were gone; but would it not be better that he should come to
some final understanding with her before he gave her the further fifty? But then, as he thought
of this, he was aware that she was too clever to allow him to do as he desired. If he went
into that room with the fifty pounds in his pockets, or in his glove, or, indeed, anywhere
about his person, she would have it from him, let his own resolution to make a previous bargain
be what it might. His respect for the woman rose almost to veneration, but with the veneration
was mixed a strong feeling of fear.

But, in spite of all this, he did venture to triumph a little when he met Doodles at the club.
He had employed the Russian spy, and had paid her twenty pounds, and was enrolled in the corps
of diplomatic and mysterious personages, who do their work by mysterious agencies. He did not
tell Doodles anything about the glove, or the way in which the money was taken from him; but
he did say that he was to see the spy again to-morrow, and that he intended to take with him
another present of fifty pounds.

"By George, Clavey, you are going it." said Doodles, in a voice that was delightfully envious
to the ears of Captain Archie. When he heard that envious tone he felt that he was entitled
to be triumphant.

Chapter XXIX

What Would Men Say To You?

"Harry, tell me the truth--tell me all the truth." Harry Clavering was thus greeted when, in
obedience to the summons from Lady Ongar, he went to her almost immediately on his return to
London.

It will be remembered that he had remained at Clavering some days after the departure of Hugh
and Archie, lacking the courage to face his misfortunes boldly. But though his delay had been
cowardly, it had not been easy to him to be a coward. He despised himself for not having written
with warm, full-expressed affection to Florence and with honest, clear truth to Julia. Half
his misery rose from this feeling of self-abasement, and from the consciousness that he was
weak, piteously weak, exactly in that in which he had often boasted to himself that he was
strong. But such inward boastings are not altogether bad. They preserve men from succumbing,
and make at any rate some attempt to realize themselves. The man who tells himself that he
is brave, will struggle much before he flies; but the man who never does so tell himself, will
find flying easy unless his heart be of nature very high. Now had come the moment either for
flying or not flying; and Harry, swearing that he would stand his ground, resolutely took his
hat and gloves, and made his way to Bolton Street with a sore heart.

But as he went he could not keep himself from arguing the matter within his own breast. He
knew what was his duty. It was his duty to stick to Florence, not only with his word and his
hand, but with his heart. It was his duty to tell Lady Ongar that, not only his word was at
Stratton, but his heart also, and to ask her pardon for the wrong that he had done her by that
caress. For some ten minutes as he walked through the streets his resolve was strong to do
this manifest duty; but, gradually, as he thought of that caress, as he thought of the difficulties
of the coming interview, as he thought of Julia's high-toned beauty--perhaps something also
of her wealth and birth--and more strongly still as he thought of her love for him, false,
treacherous, selfish arguments offered themselves to his mind--arguments which he knew to be
false and selfish. Which of them did he love? Could it be right for him to give his hand without
his heart? Could it really be good for Florence--poor injured Florence, that she should be
taken by a man who had ceased to regard her more than all other women? Were he to marry her
now, would not that deceit be worse than the other deceit? Or, rather, would not that be deceitful,
whereas the other course would simply be unfortunate--unfortunate through circumstances for
which he was blameless? Damnable arguments! False, cowardly logic, by which all male jilts
seek to excuse their own treachery to themselves and to others!

Thus during the second ten minutes of his walk, his line of conduct became less plain to him,
and as he entered Piccadilly he was racked with doubts. But instead of settling them in his
mind he unconsciously allowed himself to dwell upon the words with which he would seek to excuse
his treachery to Florence. He thought how he would tell her--not to her face with spoken words,
for that he could not do--but with written skill, that he was unworthy of her goodness, that
his love for her had fallen off through his own unworthiness, and had returned to one who was
in all respects less perfect than she, but who in old days, as she well knew, had been his
first love. Yes! he would say all this, and Julia, let her anger be what it might, should know
that he had said it. As he planned this, there came to him a little comfort, for he thought
there was something grand in such a resolution. Yes; he would do that, even though he should
lose Julia also.

Miserable clap-trap! He knew in his heart that all his logic was false, and his arguments baseless.
Cease to love Florence Burton! He had not ceased to love her, nor is the heart of any man made
so like a weathercock that it needs must turn itself hither and thither, as the wind directs,
and be altogether beyond the man's control. For Harry, with all his faults, and in spite of
his present falseness, was a man. No man ceases to love without a cause. No man need cease
to love without a cause. A man may maintain his love, and nourish it, and keep it warm by honest,
manly effort, as he may his probity, his courage, or his honor. It was not that he had ceased
to love Florence; but that the glare of the candle had been too bright for him and he had scorched
his wings. After all, as to that embrace of which he had thought so much, and the memory of
which was so sweet to him and so bitter--it had simply been an accident. Thus, writing in his
mind that letter to Florence which he knew, if he were an honest man, he would never allow
himself to write, he reached Lady Ongar's door without having arranged for himself any special
line of conduct.

We must return for a moment to the fact that Hugh and Archie had returned to town before Harry
Clavering. How Archie had been engaged on great doings, the reader, I hope, will remember;
and he may as well be informed here that the fifty pounds was duly taken to Mount Street, and
were extracted from him by the spy without much difficulty. I do not know that Archie in return
obtained any immediate aid or valuable information from Sophie Gordeloup; but Sophie did obtain
some information from him which she found herself able to use for her own purposes. As his
position with reference to love and marriage was being discussed, and the position also of
the divine Julia, Sophie hinted her fear of another Clavering lover. What did Archie think
of his cousin Harry? "Why; he's engaged to another girl," said Archie, opening wide his eyes
and his mouth, and becoming very free with his information. This was a matter to which Sophie
found it worth her while to attend, and she soon learned from Archie all that Archie knew about
Florence Burton. And this was all that could be known. No secret had been made in the family
of Harry's engagement. Archie told his fair assistant that Miss Burton had been received at
Clavering Park openly as Harry's future wife, and, "by Jove, you know, he can't be coming it
with Julia after that, you know." Sophie made a little grimace, but did not say much. She,
remembering that she had caught Lady Ongar in Harry's arms, thought that, "by Jove," he might
be coming it with Julia, even after Miss Burton's reception at Clavering Park. Then, too, she
remembered some few words that had passed between her and her dear Julia after Harry's departure
on the evening of the embrace, and perceived that Julia was in ignorance of the very existence
of Florence Burton, even though Florence had been received at the Park. This was information
worth having--information to be used! Her respect for Harry rose immeasurably. She had not
given him credit for so much audacity, so much gallantry, and so much skill. She had thought
him to be a pigheaded Clavering, like the rest of them. He was not pigheaded; he was a promising
young man; she could have liked him and perhaps aided him--only that he had shown so strong
a determination to have nothing to do with her. Therefore the information should be used--and
it was used.

The reader will now understand what was the truth which Lady Ongar demanded from Harry Clavering.
"Harry, tell me the truth; tell me all the truth." She had come forward to meet him in the
middle of the room when she spoke these words, and stood looking him in the face, not having
given him her hand.

"What truth?" said Harry. "Have I ever told you a lie?" But he knew well what was the truth
required of him.

"Lies can be acted as well as told. Harry, tell me all at once. Who is Florence Burton; who
and what?" She knew it all, then, and things had settled themselves for him without the necessity
of any action on his part. It was odd enough that she should not have learned it before, but
at any rate she knew it now. And it was well that she should have been told--only how was he
to excuse himself for that embrace? "At any rate speak to me," she said, standing quite erect,
and looking as a Juno might have looked. "You will acknowledge at least that I have a right
to ask the question. Who is this Florence Burton?"

"She is the daughter of Mr. Burton of Stratton."

"And is that all that you can tell me? Come, Harry, be braver than that. I was not such a coward
once with you. Are you engaged to marry her?"

"Yes, Lady Ongar, I am."

"Then you have had your revenge on me, and now we are quits." So saying, she stepped back from
the middle of the room, and sat herself down on her accustomed seat. He was left there standing,
and it seemed as though she intended to take no further notice of him. He might go if he pleased,
and there would be an end of it all. The difficulty would be over, and he might at once write
to Florence in what language he liked. It would simply be a little episode in his life, and
his escape would not have been arduous.

But he could not go from her in that way. He could not bring himself to leave the room without
some further word. She had spoken of revenge. Was it not incumbent on him to explain to her
that there had been no revenge; that he had loved, and suffered, and forgiven without one thought
of anger--and that then he had unfortunately loved again? Must he not find some words in which
to tell her that she had been the light, and he simply the poor moth that had burned his wings.

"No, Lady Ongar," said he, "there has been no revenge."

"We will call is justice, if you please. At any rate I do not mean to complain."

"If you ever injured me--" he began.

"I did injure you," said she, sharply.

"If you ever injured me, I forgave you freely."

"I did injure you--" As she spoke she rose again from her seat, showing how impossible to her
was that tranquillity which she had attempted to maintain. "I did injure you, but the injury
came to you early in life, and sat lightly on you. Within a few months you had learned to love
this young lady at the place you went to--the first young lady you saw! I had not done you
much harm, Harry. But that which you have done me cannot be undone."

"Julia," he said, coming up to her.

"No; not Julia. When you were here before I asked you to call me so, hoping, longing, believing--doing
more, so much more than I could have done, but that I thought my love might now be of service
to you. You do not think that I had heard of this then."

"Oh, no."

"No. It is odd that I should not have known it, as I now hear that she was at my sister's house;
but all others have not been as silent as you have been. We are quits, Harry; that is all that
I have to say. We are quits now."

"I have intended to be true to you--to you and to her."

"Were you true when you acted as you did the other night?" He could not explain to her how
greatly he had been tempted. "Were you true when you held me in your arms as that woman came
in? Had you not made me think that I might glory in loving you, and that I might show her that
I scorned her when she thought to promise me her secresy--her secresy, as though I were ashamed
of what she had seen. I was not ashamed--not then. Had all the world known it I should not
have been ashamed. 'I have loved him long,' I should have said, 'and him only. He is to be
my husband, and now at last I need not be ashamed.'" So much she spoke, standing up, looking
at him with firm face, and uttering her syllables with a quick clear voice; but at the last
word there came a quiver in her tone, and the strength of her countenance quailed, and there
was a tear which made dim her eye, and she knew that she could no longer stand before him.
She endeavored to seat herself with composure; but the attempt failed, and as she fell back
upon the sofa he just heard the sob which had cost her so great and vain an effort to restrain.
In an instant he was kneeling at her feet, and grasping at the hand with which she was hiding
her face. "Julia," he said, "look at me; let us at any rate understand each other at last."

"No, Harry; there must be no more such knowledge--no more such understanding. You must go from
me, and come here no more. Had it not been for that other night, I would still have endeavored
to regard you as a friend. But I have no right to such friendship. I have sinned and gone astray,
and am a thing vile and polluted. I sold myself as a beast is sold, and men have treated me
as I treated myself."

"Have I treated you so?"

"Yes, Harry; you, you. How did you treat me when you took me in your arms and kissed me--knowing,
knowing that I was not to be your wife? O God, I have sinned. I have sinned, and I am punished."

"No, no," said he, rising from his knees, "it was not as you say."

"Then how was it, sir? Is it thus that you treat other women--your friends, those to whom you
declare friendship? What did you mean me to think?"

"That I loved you."

"Yes; with a love that should complete my disgrace--that should finish my degradation. But
I had not heard of this Florence Burton; and, Harry, that night I was happy in my bed. And
in that next week when you were down there for that sad ceremony, I was happy here, happy and
proud. Yes, Harry, I was so proud when I thought you still loved me--loved me in spite of my
past sin, that I almost forgot that I was polluted. You have made me remember it, and I shall
not forget it again."

It would have been better for him had he gone away at once. Now he was sitting in a chair,
sobbing violently, and pressing away the tears from his cheeks with his hands. How could he
make her understand that he had intended no insult when he embraced her? Was it not incumbent
on him to tell her that the wrong he then did was done to Florence Burton, and not to her?
But his agony was too much for him at present, and he could find no words in which to speak to her.

"I said to myself that you would come when the funeral was over, and I wept for poor Hermy
as I thought that my lot was so much happier than hers. But people have what they deserve,
and Hermy, who has done no such wrong as I have done, is not crushed as I am crushed. It was
just, Harry, that the punishment should come from you, but it has come very heavily."

"Julia, it was not meant to be so."

"Well; we will let that pass. I cannot unsay, Harry, all that I have said--all that I did not
say, but which you must have thought and known when you were here last. I cannot bid you believe
that I do not--love you."

"Not more tenderly or truly than I love you."

"Nay, Harry, your love to me can be neither true nor tender--nor will I permit it to be offered
to me. You do not think that I would rob that girl of what is hers. Mine for you may be both
tender and true; but, alas, truth has come to me when it can avail me no longer."

"Julia, if you will say that you love me, it shall avail you."

"In saying that, you are continuing to ill-treat me. Listen to me now. I hardly know when it
began, for, at first, I did not expect that you would forgive me and let me be dear to you
as I used to be; but as you sat here, looking up into my face in the old way, it came on me
gradually--the feeling that it might be so; and I told myself that if you would take me I might
be of service to you, and I thought that I might forgive myself at last for possessing this
money if I could throw it into your lap, so that you might thrive with it in the world; and
I said to myself that it might be well to wait awhile, till I should see whether you really
loved me; but then came that burst of passion, and though I knew that you were wrong, I was
proud to feel that I was still so dear to you. It is all over. We understand each other at
last, and you may go. There is nothing to be forgiven between us."

He had now resolved that Florence must go by the board. If Julia would still take him she should
be his wife, and he would face Florence and all the Burtons, and his own family, and all the
world in the matter of his treachery. What would he care what the world might say? His treachery
to Florence was a thing completed. Now, at this moment, he felt himself to be so devoted to
Julia as to make him regard his engagement to Florence as one which must, at all hazards, be
renounced. He thought of his mother's sorrow, of his father's scorn--of the dismay with which
Fanny would hear concerning him a tale which she would believe to be so impossible; he thought
of Theodore Burton, and the deep, unquenchable anger of which that brother was capable, and
of Cecilia and her outraged kindness; he thought of the infamy which would be attached to him,
and resolved that he must bear it all. Even if his own heart did not move him so to act, how
could he hinder himself from giving comfort and happiness to this woman who was before him?
Injury, wrong, and broken-hearted wretchedness, he could not prevent; but, therefore, this
part was as open to him as the other. Men would say that he had done this for Lady Ongar's
money; and the indignation with which he was able to regard this false accusation--for his
mind declared such accusation to be damnably false--gave him some comfort. People might say
of him what they pleased. He was about to do the best within his power. Bad, alas, was the
best, but it was of no avail now to think of that.

"Julia," he said, "between us at least there shall be nothing to be forgiven."

"There is nothing," said she.

"And there shall be no broken love. I am true to you now--as ever."

"And, what, then, of your truth to Miss Florence Burton?"

"It will not be for you to rebuke me with that. We have, both of us, played our game badly,
but not for that reason need we both be ruined and broken-hearted. In your folly you thought
that wealth was better than love; and I, in my folly--I thought that one love blighted might
be mended by another. When I asked Miss Burton to be my wife you were the wife of another man.
Now that you are free again I cannot marry Miss Burton."

"You must marry her, Harry."

"There shall be no must in such a case. You do not know her, and cannot understand how good,
how perfect she is. She is too good to take a hand without a heart."

"And what would men say of you?"

"I must bear what men say. I do not suppose that I shall be all happy--not even with your love.
When things have once gone wrong they cannot be mended without showing the patches. But yet
men stay the hand of ruin for a while, tinkering here and putting in a nail there, stitching
and cobbling; and so things are kept together. It must be so for you and me. Give me your hand,
Julia, for I have never deceived you, and you need not fear that I shall do so now. Give me
your hand, and say that you will be my wife."

"No, Harry; not your wife. I do not, as you say, know that perfect girl, but I will not rob
one that is so good."

"You are bound to me, Julia. You must do as I bid you. You have told me that you love me; and
I have told you--and I tell you now, that I love none other as I love you--have never loved
any other as I loved you. Give me your hand." Then, coming to her, he took her hand, while
she sat with her face averted from him. "Tell me that you will be my wife." But she would not
say the words. She was less selfish than he, and was thinking--was trying to think what might
be best for them all, but, above all, what might be best for him. "Speak to me," he said, "and
acknowledge that you wronged me when you thought that the expression of my love was an insult
to you."

"It is easy to say, speak. What shall I say?"

"Say that you will be my wife."

"No--I will not say it." She rose again from her chair, and took her hand away from him. "I
will not say it. Go now and think over all that you have done; and I also will think of it.
God help me. What evil comes when evil has been done. But, Harry, I understand you now, and
I at least will blame you no more. Go and see Florence Burton; and if when you see her, you
find that you can love her, take her to your heart, and be true to her. You shall never hear
another reproach from me. Go now, go; there is nothing more to be said."

He paused a moment as though he were going to speak, but he left the room without another word.
As he went along the passage and turned on the stairs he saw her standing at the door of the
room, looking at him, and it seemed that her eyes were imploring him to be true to her in spite
of the words that she had spoken. "And I will be true to her," he said to himself. "She was
the first that I ever loved, and I will be true to her."

He went out, and for an hour or two wandered about the town, hardly knowing whither his steps
were taking him. There had been a tragic seriousness in what had occurred to him this evening,
which seemed to cover him with care, and make him feel that his youth was gone from him. At
any former period of his life his ears would have tingled with pride to hear such a woman as
Lady Ongar speak of her love for him in such terms as she had used; but there was no room now
for pride in his bosom. Now at least he thought nothing of her wealth or rank. He thought of
her as a woman between whom and himself there existed so strong a passion as to make it impossible
that he should marry another, even though his duty plainly required it. The grace and graciousness
of his life were over; but love still remained to him, and of that he must make the most. All
others whom he regarded would revile him, and now he must live for this woman alone. She had
said that she had injured him. Yes, indeed, she had injured him! She had robbed him of his
high character, of his unclouded brow, of that self-pride which had so often told him that
he was living a life without reproach among men. She had brought him to a state in which misery
must be his bedfellow, and disgrace his companion; but still she loved him, and to that love
he would be true.

And as to Florence Burton--how was he to settle matters with her? That letter for which he
had been preparing the words as he went to Bolton Street, before the necessity for it had become
irrevocable, did not now appear to him to be very easy. At any rate he did not attempt it on
that night.

Chapter XXX

The Man Who Dusted His Boots With His Handkerchief

When Florence Burton had written three letters to Harry without receiving a word in reply to
either of them, she began to be seriously unhappy. The last of these letters, received by him
after the scene described in the last chapter, he had been afraid to read. It still remained
unopened in his pocket. But Florence, though she was unhappy, was not even yet jealous. Her
fears did not lie in that direction, nor had she naturally any tendency to such uneasiness.
He was ill, she thought; or if not ill in health, then ill at ease. Some trouble afflicted
him of which he could not bring himself to tell her the facts, and as she thought of this she
remembered her own stubbornness on the subject of their marriage, and blamed herself in that
she was not now with him, to comfort him. If such comfort would avail him anything now, she
would be stubborn no longer. When the third letter brought no reply she wrote to her sister-in-law,
Mrs. Burton, confessing her uneasiness, and begging for comfort. Surely Cecilia could not but
see him occasionally--or at any rate have the power of seeing him. Or Theodore might do so--as,
of course, he would be at the office. If anything ailed him would Cecilia tell her all the
truth? But Cecilia, when she began to fear that something did ail him, did not find it very
easy to tell Florence all the truth.

But there was jealousy at Stratton, though Florence was not jealous. Old Mrs. Burton had become
alarmed, and was ready to tear the eyes out of Harry Clavering's head if Harry should be false
to her daughter. This was a misfortune of which, with all her brood, Mrs. Burton had as yet
known nothing. No daughter of hers had been misused by any man, and no son of hers had ever
misused any one's daughter. Her children had gone out into the world steadily, prudently, making
no brilliant marriages, but never falling into any mistakes. She heard of such misfortunes
around her--that a young lady here had loved in vain, and that a young lady there had been
left to wear the willow; but such sorrows had never visited her roof; and she was disposed
to think--and perhaps to say--that the fault lay chiefly in the imprudence of mothers. What
if at last, when her work in this line had been so nearly brought to a successful close, misery
and disappointment should come also upon her lamb! In such case Mrs. Burton, we may say, was
a ewe who would not see her lamb suffer without many bleatings and considerable exercise of
her maternal energies.

And tidings had come to Mrs. Burton which had not as yet been allowed to reach Florence's ears.
In the office at the Adelphi was one Mr. Walliker, who had a younger brother now occupying
that desk in Mr. Burton's office which had belonged to Harry Clavering. Through Bob Walliker
Mrs. Burton learned that Harry did not come to the office even when it was known that he had
returned to London from Clavering--and she also learned at last that the young men in the office
were connecting Harry Clavering's name with that of a rich and noble widow, Lady Ongar. Then
Mrs. Burton wrote to her son Theodore, as Florence had written to Theodore's wife.

Mrs. Burton, though she had loved Harry dearly, and had, perhaps, in many respects liked him
better than any of her sons-in-law, had, nevertheless, felt some misgivings from the first.
Florence was brighter, better educated and cleverer than her elder sisters, and therefore when
it had come to pass that she was asked in marriage by a man somewhat higher in rank and softer
in manners than they who had married her sisters, there had seemed to be some reason for the
change--but Mrs. Burton had felt that it was a ground for apprehension. High rank and soft
manners may not always belong to a true heart. At first she was unwilling to hint this caution
even to herself; but at last, as her suspicions grew, she spoke the words very frequently,
not only to herself, but also to her husband. Why, oh why, had she let into her house any man
differing in mode of life from those whom she had known to be honest and good? How would her
gray hairs be made to go in sorrow to the grave, if after all her old prudence and all her
old success, her last pet lamb should be returned to the mother's side, ill-used, maimed, and
blighted!

Theodore Burton, when he received his mother's letter, had not seen Harry since his return
from Clavering. He had been inclined to be very angry with him for his long and unannounced
absence from the office. "He will do no good," he had said to his wile. "He does not know what
real work means." But his anger turned to disgust as regarded Harry, and almost to despair
as regarded his sister, when Harry had been a week in town and yet had not shown himself at
the Adelphi. But at this time Theodore Burton had heard no word of Lady Ongar, though the clerks
in the office had that name daily in their mouths. "Cannot you go to him, Theodore?" said his
wife. "It is very easy to say go to him," he replied. "If I made it my business I could, of
course, go to him, and no doubt find him if I was determined to do so--but what more could
I do? I can lead a horse to the water, but I cannot make him drink." "You could speak to him
of Florence." "That is such a woman's idea," said the husband. "When every proper incentive
to duty and ambition has failed him, he is to be brought into the right way by the mention
of a girl's name!" "May I see him?" Cecilia urged. "Yes--if you can catch him; but I do not
advise you to try."

After that came the two letters for the husband and wife, each of which was shown to the other;
and then for the first time did either of them receive the idea that Lady Ongar with her fortune
might be a cause of misery to their sister. "I don't believe a word of it," said Cecilia, whose
cheeks were burning, half with shame and half with anger. Harry had been such a pet with her--had
already been taken so closely to her heart as a brother! "I should not have suspected him of
that kind of baseness," said Theodore, very slowly. "He is not base," said Cecilia. "He may
be idle and foolish, but he is not base."

"I must at any rate go after him now," said Theodore. "I don't believe this--I won't believe
it. I do not believe it. But if it should be true--!"

"Oh, Theodore."

"I do not think it is true. It is not the kind of weakness I have seen in him. He is weak and
vain, but I should have said that he was true."

"I am sure he is true."

"I think so. I cannot say more than that I think so."

"You will write to your mother?"

"Yes."

"And may I ask Florence to come up? Is it not always better that people should be near to each
other when they are engaged?"

"You can ask her, if you like. I doubt whether she will come."

"She will come if she thinks that anything is amiss with him."

Cecilia wrote immediately to Florence, pressing her invitation in the strongest terms that
she could use. "I tell you the whole truth," she said. "We have not seen him, and this of course,
has troubled us very greatly. I feel quite sure he would come to us if you were here; and this,
I think, should bring you, if no other consideration does so. Theodore imagines that he has
become simply idle, and that he is ashamed to show himself here because of that. It may be
that he has some trouble with reference to his own home, of which we know nothing. But if he
has any such trouble you ought to be made aware of it, and I feel sure that he would tell you
if you were here." Much more she said, arguing in the same way, and pressing Florence to come
to London.

Mr. Burton did not at once send a reply to his mother, but he wrote the following note to Harry:

    ADELPHI--May, 186--

    My Dear Clavering:--I have been sorry to notice your continued
    absence from the office, and both Cecilia and I have been very sorry
    that you have discontinued coming to us. But I should not have
    written to you on this matter, not wishing to interfere in your own
    concerns, had I not desired to see you specially with reference to
    my sister. As I have that to say to you concerning her which I can
    hardly write, will you make an appointment with me here; or at my
    house? Or, if you cannot do that, will you say when I shall find you
    at home? If you will come and dine with us we shall like that best,
    and leave you to name an early day; to-morrow, or the next day, or
    the day after. "Very truly yours,

    "THEODORE BURTON."

When Cecilia's letter reached Stratton, and another post came without any letter from Harry,
poor Florence's heart sank low in her bosom. "Well, my dear," said Mrs. Burton, who watched
her daughter anxiously while she was reading the letter. Mrs. Burton had not told Florence
of her own letter to her son; and now, having herself received no answer, looked to obtain
some reply from that which her daughter-in-law had sent.

"Cecilia wants me to go to London," said Florence.

"Is there anything the matter that you should go just now?"

"Not exactly the matter, mamma; but you can see the letter."

Mrs. Burton read it slowly, and felt sure that much was the matter. She knew that Cecilia would
have written in that strain only under the influence of some great alarm. At first she was
disposed to think that she herself would go to London. She was eager to know the truth--eager
to utter her loud maternal bleatings if any wrong were threatened to her lamb. Florence might
go with her, but she longed herself to be on the field of action. She felt that she could almost
annihilate any man by her words and looks who would dare to ill-treat a girl of hers.

"Well, mamma--what do you think?"

"I don't know yet, my dear. I will speak to your papa before dinner." But as Mrs. Burton had
been usually autocratic in the management of her own daughters, Florence was aware that her
mother simply required a little time before she made up her mind. "It is not that I want to
go London for the pleasure of it, mamma."

"I know that, my dear."

"Nor yet merely to see him!--though, of course, I do long to see him!"

"Of course you do--why shouldn't you?"

"But Cecilia is so very prudent, and she thinks that it will be better. And she would not have
pressed it, unless Theodore had thought so too!"

"I thought Theodore would have written to me!"

"But he writes so seldom."

"I expected a letter from him now, as I had written to him."

"About Harry, do you mean?"

"Well; yes. I did not mention it, as I was aware I might make you uneasy. But I saw that you
were unhappy at not hearing from him."

"Oh, mamma, do let me go."

"Of course you shall go if you wish it; but let me speak to papa before anything is quite decided."

Mrs. Burton did speak to her husband, and it was arranged that Florence should go up to Onslow
Crescent. But Mrs. Burton, though she had been always autocratic about her unmarried daughters,
had never been autocratic about herself. When she hinted that she also might go, she saw that
the scheme was not approved, and she at once abandoned it.

"It would look as if we were all afraid," said Mr. Burton; "and, after all, what does it come
to? A young gentleman does not write to his sweetheart for two or three weeks. I used to think
myself the best lover in the world if I wrote once a month."

"There was no penny post then, Mr. Burton."

"And I often wish there was none now," said Mr. Burton. That matter was therefore decided,
and Florence wrote back to her sister-in-law, saying that she would go up to London on the
third day from that. In the meantime, Harry Clavering and Theodore Burton had met.

Has it ever been the lot of any unmarried male reader of these pages to pass three or four
days in London, without anything to do--to have to get through them by himself--and to have
that burden on his shoulder, with the additional burden of some terrible, wearing misery, away
from which there seems to be no road, and out of which there is apparently no escape? That
was Harry Clavering's condition for some few days after the evening which he last passed in
the company of Lady Ongar; and I will ask any such unmarried man whether, in such a plight,
there was for him any other alternative but to wish himself dead? In such a condition, a man
can simply walk the streets by himself, and declare to himself that everything is bad, and
rotten, and vile, and worthless. He wishes himself dead, and calculates the different advantages
of prussic acid and pistols. He may the while take his meals very punctually at his club, may
smoke his cigars, and drink his bitter beer, or brandy-and-water; but he is all the time wishing
himself dead, and making that calculation as to the best way of achieving that desirable result.
Such was Harry Clavering's condition now. As for his office, the doors of that place were absolutely
closed against him, by the presence of Theodore Burton. When he attempted to read, he could
not understand a word, or sit for ten minutes with a book in his hand. No occupation was possible
to him. He longed to go again to Bolton Street, but he did not even do that. If there, he could
act only as though Florence had been deserted for ever; and if he so acted, he would be infamous
for life. And yet he had sworn to Julia that such was his intention. He hardly dared to ask
himself which of the two he loved. The misery of it all had become so heavy upon him, that
he could take no pleasure in the thought of his love. It must always be all regret, all sorrow,
and all remorse. Then there came upon him the letter from Theodore Burton, and he knew that
it was necessary that he should see the writer.

Nothing could be more disagreeable than such an interview, but he could not allow himself to
be guilty of the cowardice of declining it. Of a personal quarrel with Burton he was not afraid.
He felt, indeed, that he might almost find relief in the capability of being himself angry
with any one. But he must positively make up his mind before such an interview. He must devote
himself either to Florence or to Julia; and he did not know how to abandon the one or the other.
He had allowed himself to be so governed by impulse that he had pledged himself to Lady Ongar,
and had sworn to her that he would be entirely hers. She, it is true, had not taken him altogether
at his word, but not the less did he know--did he think that he knew--that she looked for the
performance of his promise. And she had been the first that he had sworn to love!

In his dilemma he did at last go to Bolton Street, and there found that Lady Ongar had left
town for three or four days. The servant said that she had gone, he believed, to the Isle of
Wight; and that Madam Gordeloup had gone with her. She was to be back in town early in the
following week. This was on a Thursday, and he was aware that he could not postpone his interview
with Burton till after Julia's return. So he went to his club, and nailing himself as it were
to the writing-table, made an appointment for the following morning. He would be with Burton
at the Adelphi at twelve o'clock. He had been in trouble, he said, and that trouble had kept
him from the office and from Onslow Crescent. Having written this, he sent it off, and then
played billiards, and smoked, and dined, played more billiards, and smoked and drank till the
usual hours of the night had come. He was not a man who liked such things. He had not become
what he was by passing his earlier years after this fashion. But his misery required excitement,
and, billiards, with tobacco, were better than the desolation of solitude.

On the following morning he did not breakfast till near eleven. Why should he get up as long
as it was possible to obtain the relief which was to be had from dozing? As far as possible
he would not think of the matter till he had put his hat upon his head to go to The Adelphi.
But the time for taking his hat soon came, and he started on his short journey. But even as
he walked, he could not think of it. He was purposeless, as a ship without a rudder, telling
himself that he could only go as the winds might direct him. How he did hate himself for his
one weakness! And yet he hardly made an effort to overcome it. On one point only did he seem
to have a resolve. If Burton attempted to use with him anything like a threat, he would instantly
resent it.

Punctually at twelve he walked into the outer office, and was told that Mr. Burton was in his room.

"Halloa, Clavering," said Walliker, who was standing with his back to the fire, "I thought
we had lost you for good and all. And here you are come back again!"

Harry had always disliked this man, and now hated him worse than ever. "Yes; I am here," said
he, "for a few minutes; but I believe I need not trouble you."

"All right, old fellow," said Walliker; and then Harry passed through into the inner room.

"I am very glad to see you, Harry," said Burton, rising, and giving his hand cordially to Clavering.
"And I am sorry to hear that you have been in trouble. Is it anything in which we can help you?"

"I hope--Mrs. Burton is well," said Harry, hesitating.

"Pretty well."

"And the children?"

"Quite well. They say you are a very bad fellow not to go and see them."

"I believe I am a bad fellow," said Harry.

"Sit down, Harry. It will be best to come at the point at once; will it not? Is there anything
wrong between you and Florence?"

"What do you mean by wrong?"

"I should call it very wrong--hideously wrong--if, after all that has passed between you, there
should now be any doubt as to your affection for each other. If such doubt were now to arise
with her, I should almost disown my sister."

"You will never have to blush for her."

"I think not. I thank God that hitherto there have been no such blushes among us. And I hope,
Harry, that my heart may never have to bleed for her. Come, Harry, let me tell you all at once
like an honest man. I hate subterfuges and secrets. A report has reached the old people at
home--not Florence, mind--that you are untrue to Florence, and are passing your time with that
lady who is the sister of your cousin's wife."

"What right have they to ask how I pass my time?"

"Do not be unjust, Harry. If you simply tell me that your visits to that lady imply no evil
to my sister, I, knowing you to be a gentleman, will take your word for all that it can mean."
He paused, and Harry hesitated, and could not answer. "Nay, dear friend--brother as we both
of us have thought you--come once more to Onslow Crescent and kiss the bairns, and kiss Cecilia,
too, and sit with us at our table, and talk as you used to do, and I will ask no further question;
nor will she. Then you will come back here to your work, and your trouble will be gone, and
your mind will be at ease; and, Harry, one of the best girls that ever gave her heart into
a man's keeping will be there to worship you, and to swear when your back is turned that any
one who says a word against you shall be no brother, and no sister, and no friend of hers."

