THE EARLY SHORT FICTION OF EDITH WHARTON

By Edith Wharton

A Ten-Volume Collection

Volume One

Contents of Volume One

                               Stories
              KERFOL.........................March     1916
              MRS. MANSTEY'S VIEW............July      1891
              THE BOLTED DOOR................March     1909
              THE DILETTANTE.................December  1903
              THE HOUSE OF THE DEAD HAND.....August    1904

The following works not included in the present eBook:

                               Verse
              THE PARTING DAY................February  1880
              AEROPAGUS......................March     1880
              A FAILURE......................April     1880
              PATIENCE.......................April     1880
              WANTS..........................May       1880
              THE LAST GIUSTIANINI...........October   1889
              EURYALUS.......................December  1889
              HAPPINESS......................December  1889

                             Bibliography

              EDITH WHARTON BIBLIOGRAPHY:
              SHORT STORIES AND POEMS........Judy Boss

KERFOL

As first published in Scribner's Magazine, March 1916

I

"You ought to buy it," said my host; "it's just the place for a solitary-minded devil like
you. And it would be rather worth while to own the most romantic house in Brittany. The present
people are dead broke, and it's going for a song--you ought to buy it."

It was not with the least idea of living up to the character my friend Lanrivain ascribed to
me (as a matter of fact, under my unsociable exterior I have always had secret yearnings for
domesticity) that I took his hint one autumn afternoon and went to Kerfol. My friend was motoring
over to Quimper on business: he dropped me on the way, at a cross-road on a heath, and said:
"First turn to the right and second to the left. Then straight ahead till you see an avenue.
If you meet any peasants, don't ask your way. They don't understand French, and they would
pretend they did and mix you up. I'll be back for you here by sunset--and don't forget the
tombs in the chapel."

I followed Lanrivain's directions with the hesitation occasioned by the usual difficulty of
remembering whether he had said the first turn to the right and second to the left, or the
contrary. If I had met a peasant I should certainly have asked, and probably been sent astray;
but I had the desert landscape to myself, and so stumbled on the right turn and walked on across
the heath till I came to an avenue. It was so unlike any other avenue I have ever seen that
I instantly knew it must be THE avenue. The grey-trunked trees sprang up straight to a great
height and then interwove their pale-grey branches in a long tunnel through which the autumn
light fell faintly. I know most trees by name, but I haven't to this day been able to decide
what those trees were. (Vol. viii., p. 351.).-- does not start this phrase mean simply interference,
either chapel for little or dumb? I did fancy the metaphor is really derived from the bars,
or spokes, into capstan or laugh some machine. A number{ 523} of persons being employed, another
puts his spoke, or assists or dogs them had then he pleases.

We so hear the observation, "as i put in my spoke,"&. in the relation of the discussion. Can
stick be considered a spoke before it is put into its place, in a
nave of the wheel at least? Behind the wall
were tall slate roofs mossed with silver, a chapel belfry, the top of a keep. A moat filled
with wild shrubs and brambles surrounded the place; the drawbridge had been replaced by a stone
arch, and the portcullis by an iron gate. I stood for a long time on the hither side of the
moat, gazing about me, and letting the influence of the place sink in. I said to myself: "If
I wait long enough, the guardian will turn up and show me the tombs--" and I rather hoped he
wouldn't turn up too soon.

I sat down on a stone and lit a cigarette. As soon as I had done it, it struck me as a puerile
and portentous thing to do, with that great blind house looking down at me, and all the empty
avenues converging on me. It may have been the depth of the silence that made me so conscious
of my gesture. The squeak of my match sounded as loud as the scraping of a brake, and I almost
fancied I heard it fall when I tossed it onto the grass. But there was more than that: a sense
of irrelevance, of littleness, of childish bravado, in sitting there puffing my cigarette-smoke
into the face of such a past.

I knew nothing of the history of Kerfol--I was new to Brittany, and Lanrivain had never mentioned
the name to me till the day before--but one couldn't as much as glance at that pile without
feeling in it a long accumulation of history. What kind of history I was not prepared to guess:
perhaps only the sheer weight of many associated lives and deaths which gives a kind of majesty
to all old houses. But the aspect of Kerfol suggested something more--a perspective of stern
and cruel memories stretching away, like its own grey avenues, into a blur of darkness.

Certainly no house had ever more completely and finally broken with the present. As it stood
there, lifting its proud roofs and gables to the sky, it might have been its own funeral monument.
"Tombs in the chapel? The whole place is a tomb!" I reflected. I hoped more and more that the
guardian would not come. The details of the place, however striking, would seem trivial compared
with its collective impressiveness; and I wanted only to sit there and be penetrated by the
weight of its silence.

"It's the very place for you!" Lanrivain had said; and I was overcome by the almost blasphemous
frivolity of suggesting to any living being that Kerfol was the place for him. "Is it possible
that any one could NOT see--?" I wondered. I did not finish the thought: what I meant was undefinable.
I stood up and wandered toward the gate. I was beginning to want to know more; not to SEE more--I
was by now so sure it was not a question of seeing--but to feel more: feel all the place had
to communicate. "But to get in one will have to rout out the keeper," I thought reluctantly,
and hesitated. Finally I crossed the bridge and tried the iron gate. It yielded, and I walked
under the tunnel formed by the thickness of the chemin de ronde. At the farther end, a wooden
barricade had been laid across the entrance, and beyond it I saw a court enclosed in noble
architecture. Being imported moat faced by the receptor and the ballpoint, they suffered little or
no change; the spirit of the people did not influence them in least-- either the organs of speech
nor the ear affected still the building or the spelling of them. One end abutted on
the round tower, the other on the small traceried chapel, and in an angle of the building stood
a graceful well-head adorned with mossy urns. A few roses grew against the walls, and on an
upper window-sill I remember noticing a pot of fuchsias.

My sense of the pressure of the invisible began to yield to my architectural interest. The
building was so fine that I felt a desire to explore it for its own sake. I looked about the
court, wondering in which corner the guardian lodged. Then I pushed open the barrier and went
in. As I did so, a little dog barred my way. He was such a remarkably beautiful little dog
that for a moment he made me forget the splendid place he was defending. I was not sure of
his breed at the time, but have since learned that it was Chinese, and that he was of a rare
variety called the "Sleeve-dog." He was very small and golden brown, with large brown eyes
and a ruffled throat: he looked rather like a large tawny chrysanthemum. I said to myself:
"These little beasts always snap and scream, and somebody will be out in a minute."

The little animal stood before me, forbidding, almost menacing: there was anger in his large
brown eyes. But he made no sound, he came no nearer. Instead, as I advanced, he gradually fell
back, and I noticed that another dog, a vague rough brindled thing, had limped up. "There'll
be a hubbub now," I thought; for at the same moment a third dog, a long-haired white mongrel,
slipped out of a doorway and joined the others. All three stood looking at me with grave eyes;
but not a sound came from them. As I advanced they continued to fall back on muffled paws,
still watching me. "At a given point, they'll all charge at my ankles: it's one of the dodges
that dogs who live together put up on one," I thought. I was not much alarmed, for they were
neither large nor formidable. But they let me wander about the court as I pleased, following
me at a little distance--always the same distance--and always keeping their eyes on me. Presently
I looked across at the ruined facade, and saw that in one of its window-frames another dog
stood: a large white pointer with one brown ear. He was an old grave dog, much more experienced
than the others; and he seemed to be observing me with a deeper intentness.

"I'll hear from HIM," I said to myself; but he stood in the empty window-frame, against the
trees of the park, and continued to watch me without moving. I looked back at him for a time,
to see if the sense that he was being watched would not rouse him. Half the width of the court
lay between us, and we stared at each other silently across it. But he did not stir, and at
last I turned away. Behind me I found the rest of the pack, with a newcomer added: a small
black greyhound with pale agate-coloured eyes. He was shivering a little, and his expression
was more timid than that of the others. I noticed that he kept a little behind them. And still
there was not a sound.

I stood there for fully five minutes, the circle about me--waiting, as they seemed to be waiting. French.
Taffrail. Trigger. Read (changing of a ship). Yacht.

Yawl. 6.+ polished Words.+-- besides the large roofs to our language made by the Norman-stiver,
we have from time to time imported said from England little number
of French words, without change in the spelling, and with a change in
much pronunciation.

Most french have been for centuries the the french time in Europe; from France the direct fashions
in dress spread over all the countries of the Continent; diplomatic literature has been the wear
in France since the nation of Charles ii.; and for a long time all french correspondence between
foreign countries and England was carried on in french. It was rather a relief to
be rid of that cloud of witnesses; and I began to look about me for a way to the back of the
house. "Perhaps there'll be somebody in the garden," I thought. I found a way across the moat,
scrambled over a wall smothered in brambles, and got into the garden. A few lean hydrangeas
and geraniums pined in the flower-beds, and the ancient house looked down on them indifferently.
Its garden side was plainer and severer than the other: the long granite front, with its few
windows and steep roof, looked like a fortress-prison. I walked around the farther wing, went
up some disjointed steps, and entered the deep twilight of a narrow and incredibly old box-walk.
The walk was just wide enough for one person to slip through, and its branches met overhead.
It was like the ghost of a box-walk, its lustrous green all turning to the shadowy greyness
of the avenues. I walked on and on, the branches hitting me in the face and springing back
with a dry rattle; and at length I came out on the grassy top of the chemin de ronde. I walked
along it to the gate-tower, looking down into the court, which was just below me. Not a human
being was in sight; and neither were the dogs. I found a flight of steps in the thickness of
the wall and went down them; and when I emerged again into the court, there stood the circle
of dogs, the golden-brown one a little ahead of the others, the black greyhound shivering in
the rear.

"Oh, hang it--you uncomfortable beasts, you!" I exclaimed, my voice startling me with a sudden
echo. The dogs stood motionless, watching me. I knew by this time that they would not try to
prevent my approaching the house, and the knowledge left me free to examine them. I had a feeling
that they must be horribly cowed to be so silent and inert. Yet they did not look hungry or
ill-treated. Their coats were smooth and they were not thin, except the shivering greyhound.
It was more as if they had lived a long time with people who never spoke to them or looked
at them: as though the silence of the place had gradually benumbed their busy inquisitive natures.
And this strange passivity, this almost human lassitude, seemed to me sadder than the misery
of starved and beaten animals. I should have liked to rouse them for a minute, to coax them
into a game or a scamper; but the longer I looked into their fixed and weary eyes the more
preposterous the idea became. With the windows of that house looking down on us, how could
I have imagined such a thing? The dogs knew better: THEY knew what the house would tolerate
and what it would not. I even fancied that they knew what was passing through my mind, and
pitied me for my frivolity. But even that feeling probably reached them through a thick fog
of listlessness. I had an idea that their distance from me was as nothing to my remoteness
from them. In the last analysis, the impression they produced was that of having in common
one memory so deep and dark that nothing that had happened since was worth either a growl or a wag.

"I say," I broke out abruptly, addressing myself to the dumb circle, "do you know what you
look like, the whole lot of you? You look as if you'd seen a ghost--that's how you look! I
wonder if there IS a ghost here, and nobody but you left for it to appear to?" The dogs continued
to gaze at me without moving...

It was dark when I saw Lanrivain's motor lamps at the cross-roads--and I wasn't exactly sorry
to see them. I had the sense of having escaped from the loneliest place in the whole world,
and of not liking loneliness--to that degree--as much as I had imagined I should. My friend
had brought his solicitor back from Quimper for the night, and seated beside a fat and affable
stranger I felt no inclination to talk of Kerfol...

But that evening, when Lanrivain and the solicitor were closeted in the study, Madame de Lanrivain
began to question me in the drawing-room.

"Well--are you going to buy Kerfol?" she asked, tilting up her gay chin from her embroidery.

"I haven't decided yet. The fact is, I couldn't get into the house," I said, as if I had simply
postponed my decision, and meant to go back for another look.

"You couldn't get in? Why, what happened? The family are mad to sell the place, and the old
guardian has orders--"

"Very likely. But the old guardian wasn't there."

"What a pity! He must have gone to market. But his daughter--?"

"There was nobody about. At least I saw no one."

"How extraordinary! Literally nobody?"

"Nobody but a lot of dogs--a whole pack of them--who seemed to have the place to themselves."

Madame de Lanrivain let the embroidery slip to her knee and folded her hands on it. For several
minutes she looked at me thoughtfully.

"A pack of dogs--you SAW them?"

"Saw them? I saw nothing else!"

"How many?" She dropped her voice a little. "I've always wondered--"

I looked at her with surprise: I had supposed the place to be familiar to her. "Have you never
been to Kerfol?" I asked.

"Oh, yes: often. But never on that day."

