One thing must be told of Mr. Grey which was very much to his discredit, and which, if generally
known, would have caused his clients to think him to be unfit to be the recipient of their
family secrets;--he told all the secrets to Dolly. He was a man who could not possibly be induced
to leave his business behind him at his office. It made the chief subject of conversation when
he was at home. He would even call Dolly into his bedroom late at night, bringing her out of
bed for the occasion, to discuss with her some point of legal strategy,--of legal but still
honest strategy,--which had just occurred to him. Maybe he had not quite seen his way as to
the honesty, and wanted Dolly's opinion on the subject. Dolly would come in in her dressing-gown,
and, sitting on his bed, would discuss the matter with him as advocate against the devil. Sometimes
she would be convinced; more frequently she would hold her own. But the points which were discussed
in that way, and the strength of argumentation which was used on either side, would have surprised
the clients, and the partner, and the clerks, and the eloquent barrister who was occasionally
employed to support this side or the other. The eloquent barrister, or it might be the client
himself, startled sometimes at the amount of enthusiasm which Mr. Grey would throw into his
argument, would little dream that the very words had come from the young lady in her dressing-gown.
To tell the truth, Miss Grey thoroughly liked these discussions, whether held on the lawn,
or in the dining-room arm-chairs, or during the silent hours of the night. They formed, indeed,
the very salt of her life. She felt herself to be the Conscience of the firm. Her father was
the Reason. And the partner, in her own phraseology, was the--Devil. For it must be understood
that Dolly Grey had a spice of fun about her, of which her father had the full advantage. She
would not have called her father's partner the "Devil" to any other ear but her father's. And
that her father knew, understanding also the spirit in which the sobriquet had been applied.
He did not think that his partner was worse than another man, nor did he think that his daughter
so thought. The partner, whose name was Barry, was a man of average honesty, who would occasionally
be surprised at the searching justness with which Mr. Grey would look into a matter after it
had been already debated for a day or two in the office. But Mr. Barry, though he had the pleasure
of Miss Grey's acquaintance, had no idea of the nature of the duties which she performed in
the firm.

"I'm nearly broken-hearted about this abominable business," said Mr. Grey, as he went upstairs
to his dressing room. The normal hour for dinner was half-past six. He had arrived on this
occasion at half-past seven, and had paid a shilling extra to the cabman to drive him quick.
The man, having a lame horse, had come very slowly, fidgeting Mr. Grey into additional temporary
discomfort. He had got his additional shilling, and Mr. Grey had only additional discomfort.
"I declare I think he is the wickedest old man the world ever produced." This he said as Dolly
followed him upstairs; but Dolly, wiser than her father, would say nothing about the wicked
old man in the servants' hearing.

In five minutes Mr. Grey came down "dressed,"--by the use of which word was implied the fact
that he had shaken his neckcloth, washed his hands and face, and put on his slippers. It was
understood in the household that, though half-past six was the hour named for dinner, half-past
seven was a much more probable time. Mr. Grey pertinaciously refused to have it changed.

"Stare super vias antiquas," he had stoutly said when the proposition had been made to him;
by which he had intended to imply that, as during the last twenty years he had been compelled
to dine at half-past six instead of six, he did not mean to be driven any farther in the same
direction. Consequently his cook was compelled to prepare his dinner in such a manner that
it might be eaten at one hour or the other, as chance would have it.

The dinner passed without much conversation other than incidental to Mr. Grey's wants and comforts.
His daughter knew that he had been at the office for eight hours, and knew also that he was
not a young man. Every kind of little cosseting was, therefore, applied to him. There was a
pheasant for dinner, and it was essentially necessary, in Dolly's opinion, that he should have
first the wing, quite hot, and then the leg, also hot, and that the bread-sauce should be quite
hot on the two occasions. For herself, if she had had an old crow for dinner it would have
been the same thing. Tea and bread-and-butter were her luxuries, and her tea and bread-and-butter
had been enjoyed three hours ago. "I declare I think that, after all, the leg is the better
joint of the two."

"Then why don't you have the two legs?"

"There would be a savor of greediness in that, though I know that the leg will go down,--and
I shouldn't then be able to draw the comparison. I like to have them both, and I like always
to be able to assert my opinion that the leg is the better joint. Now, how about the apple-pudding?
You said I should have an apple-pudding." From which it appeared that Mr. Grey was not superior
to having the dinner discussed in his presence at the breakfast-table. The apple-pudding came,
and was apparently enjoyed. A large portion of it was put between two plates. "That's for Mrs.
Grimes," suggested Mr. Grey. "I am not quite sure that Mrs. Grimes is worthy of it." "If you
knew what it was to be left without a shilling of your husband's wages you'd think yourself
worthy." When the conversation about the pudding was over Mr. Grey ate his cheese, and then
sat quite still in his arm-chair over the fire while the things were being taken away. "I declare
I think he is the wickedest man the world has ever produced," said Mr. Grey as soon as the
door was shut, thus showing by the repetition of the words he had before used that his mind
had been intent on Mr. Scarborough rather than on the pheasant.

"Why don't you have done with them?"

"That's all very well; but you wouldn't have done with them if you had known them all your life."

"I wouldn't spend my time and energies in white-washing any rascal," said Dolly, with vigor.

"You don't know what you'd do. And a man isn't to be left in the lurch altogether because he's
a rascal. Would you have a murderer hanged without some one to stand up for him?"

"Yes, I would," said Dolly, thoughtlessly.

"And he mightn't have been a murderer after all; or not legally so, which as far as the law
goes is the same thing."

But this special question had been often discussed between them, and Mr. Grey and Dolly did
not intend to be carried away by it on the present occasion. "I know all about that," she said;
"but this isn't a case of life and death. The old man is only anxious to save his property,
and throws upon you all the burden of doing it. He never agrees with you as to anything you say."

"As to legal points he does."

"But he keeps you always in hot water, and puts forward so much villany that I would have nothing
farther to do with him. He has been so crafty that you hardly know now which is, in truth,
the heir."

"Oh yes, I do," said the lawyer. "I know very well, and am very sorry that it should be so.
And I cannot but feel for the rascal because the dishonest effort was made on behalf of his
own son."

"Why was it necessary?" said Dolly, with sparks flying from her eye. "Throughout from the beginning
he has been bad. Why was the woman not his wife?"

"Ah! why, indeed. But had his sin consisted only in that, I should not have dreamed of refusing
my assistance as a family lawyer. All that would have gone for nothing then."

"When evil creeps in," said Dolly, sententiously, "you cannot put it right afterward."

"Never mind about that. We shall never get to the end if you go back to Adam and Eve."

"People don't go back often enough."

"Bother!" said Mr. Grey, finishing his second and last glass of port-wine. "Do keep yourself
in some degree to the question in dispute. In advising an attorney of to-day as to how he is
to treat a client you can't do any good by going back to Adam and Eve. Augustus is the heir,
and I am bound to protect the property for him from these money-lending harpies. The moment
the breath is out of the old man's body they will settle down upon it if we leave them an inch
of ground on which to stand. Every detail of his marriage must be made as clear as daylight;
and that must be done in the teeth of former false statements."

"As far as I can see, the money-lending harpies are the honestest lot of people concerned."

"The law is not on their side. They have got no right. The estate, as a fact, will belong to
Augustus the moment his father dies. Mr. Scarborough endeavored to do what he could for him
whom he regarded as his eldest son. It was very wicked. He was adding a second and a worse
crime to the first. He was flying in the face of the laws of his country. But he was successful;
and he threw dust into my eyes, because he wanted to save the property for the boy. And he
endeavored to make it up to his second son by saving for him a second property. He was not
selfish; and I cannot but feel for him."

"But you say he is the wickedest man the world ever produced."

"Because he boasts of it all, and cannot be got in any way to repent. He gives me my instructions
as though from first to last he had been a highly honorable man, and only laughs at me when
I object. And yet he must know that he may die any day. He only wishes to have this matter
set straight so that he may die. I could forgive him altogether if he would but once say that
he was sorry for what he'd done. But he has completely the air of the fine old head of a family
who thinks he is to be put into marble the moment the breath is out of his body, and that he
richly deserves the marble he is to be put into."

"That is a question between him and his God," said Dolly.

"He hasn't got a God. He believes only in his own reason,--and is content to do so, lying there
on the very brink of eternity. He is quite content with himself, because he thinks that he
has not been selfish. He cares nothing that he has robbed every one all round. He has no reverence
for property and the laws which govern it. He was born only with the life-interest, and he
has determined to treat it as though the fee-simple had belonged to him. It is his utter disregard
for law, for what the law has decided, which makes me declare him to have been the wickedest
man the world ever produced."

"It is his disregard for truth which makes you think so."

"He cares nothing for truth. He scorns it and laughs at it. And yet about the little things
of the world he expects his word to be taken as certainly as that of any other gentleman."

"I would not take it."

"Yes, you would, and would be right too. If he would say he'd pay me a hundred pounds to-morrow,
or a thousand, I would have his word as soon as any other man's bound. And yet he has utterly
got the better of me, and made me believe that a marriage took place, when there was no marriage.
I think I'll have a cup of tea."

"You won't go to sleep, papa?"

"Oh yes, I shall. When I've been so troubled as that I must have a cup of tea." Mr. Grey was
often troubled, and as a consequence Dolly was called up for consultations in the middle of
the night.

At about one o'clock there came the well-known knock at Dolly's door and the usual invitation.
Would she come into her father's room for a few minutes? Then her father trotted back to his
bed, and Dolly, of course, followed him as soon as she had clothed herself decently.

"Why didn't you tell me?"

"I thought I had made up my mind not to go; or I thought rather that I should be able to make
up my mind not to go. But it is possible that down there I may have some effect for good."

"What does he want of you?"

"There is a long question about raising money with which Augustus desires to buy the silence
of the creditors."

"Could he get the money?" asked Dolly.

"Yes, I think he could. The property at present is altogether unembarrassed. To give Mr. Scarborough
his due, he has never put his name to a scrap of paper; nor has he had occasion to do so. The
Tretton pottery people want more land, or rather more water, and a large sum of money will
be forthcoming. But he doesn't see the necessity of giving Mr. Tyrrwhit a penny-piece, or certainly
Mr. Hart. He would send them away howling without a scruple. Now, Augustus is anxious to settle
with them, for some reason which I do not clearly understand. But he wishes to do so without
any interference on his father's part. In fact, he and his father have very different ideas
as to the property. The squire regards it as his, but Augustus thinks that any day may make
it his own. In fact, they are on the very verge of quarrelling." Then, after a long debate,
Dolly consented that her father should go down to Tretton, and act, if possible, the part of
peace-maker.

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE CARROLL FAMILY.

"Aunt Carroll is coming to dinner to-day," said Dolly the next day, with a serious face.

"I know she is. Have a nice dinner for her. I don't think she ever has a nice dinner at home."

"And the three eldest girls are coming."

"Three!"

"You asked them yourself on Sunday."

"Very well. They said their papa would be away on business." It was understood that Mr. Carroll
was never asked to the Manor-house.

"Business! There is a club he belongs to where he dines and gets drunk once a month. It's the
only thing he does regularly."

"They must have their dinner, at any rate," said Mr. Grey. "I don't think they should suffer
because he drinks." This had been a subject much discussed between them, but on the present
occasion Miss Grey would not renew it. She despatched her father in a cab, the cab having been
procured because he was supposed to be a quarter of an hour late, and then went to work to
order her dinner.

It has been said that Miss Grey hated the Carrolls; but she hated the daughters worse than
the mother, and of all the people she hated in the world she hated Amelia Carroll the worst.
Amelia, the eldest, entertained an idea that she was more of a personage in the world's eyes
than her cousin,--that she went to more parties, which certainly was true if she went to any,--that
she wore finer clothes, which was also true, and that she had a lover, whereas Dolly Grey,--as
she called her cousin behind her back,--had none. This lover had something to do with horses,
and had only been heard of, had never been seen, at the Manor-house. Sophy was a good deal
hated also, being a forward, flirting, tricky girl of seventeen, who had just left the school
at which Uncle John had paid for her education. Georgina, the third, was still at school under
similar circumstances, and was pardoned her egregious noisiness and romping propensities under
the score of youth. She was sixteen, and was possessed of terrible vitality. "I am sure they
take after their father altogether," Mr. Grey had once said when the three left the Manor-house
together. At half-past six punctually they came. Dolly heard a great clatter of four people
leaving their clogs and cloaks in the hall, and would not move out of the unused drawing-room,
in which for the moment she was seated. Betsey had to prepare the dinner-table down-stairs,
and would have been sadly discomfited had she been driven to do it in the presence of three
Carroll girls. For it must be understood that Betsey had no greater respect for the Carroll
girls than her mistress. "Well, Aunt Carroll, how does the world use you?"

"Very badly. You haven't been up to see me for ten days."

"I haven't counted; but when I do come I don't often do any good. How are Minna, and Brenda,
and Potsey?"

"Poor Potsey has got a nasty boil under her arm."

"It comes from eating too much toffy," said Georgina. "I told her it would."

"How very nasty you are!" said Miss Carroll. "Do leave the child and her ailments alone!"

"Poor papa isn't very well, either," said Sophy, who was supposed to be her father's pet.

"I hope his state of health will not debar him from dining with his friends to-night," said
Miss Grey.

"You have always something ill-natured to say about papa," said Sophy.

"Nothing will ever keep him back when conviviality demands his presence." This came from his
afflicted wife, who, in spite of all his misfortunes, would ever speak with some respect of
her husband's employments. "He wasn't at all in a fit state to go to-night, but he had promised,
and that was enough."

When they had waited three-quarters of an hour Amelia began to complain,--certainly not without
reason. "I wonder why Uncle John always keeps us waiting in this way?"

"Papa has, unfortunately, something to do with his time, which is not altogether his own."
There was not much in these words, but the tone in which they were uttered would have crushed
any one more susceptible than Amelia Carroll. But at that moment the cab arrived, and Dolly
went down to meet her father.

"Have they come?" he asked.

"Come," she answered, taking his gloves and comforter from him, and giving him a kiss as she
did so. "That girl up-stairs is nearly famished."

"I won't be half a moment," said the repentant father, hastening up-stairs to go through his
ordinary dressing arrangement.

"I wouldn't hurry for her," said Dolly; "but of course you'll hurry. You always do, don't you,
papa?" Then they sat down to dinner.

"Well, girls, what is your news?"

"We were out to-day on the Brompton Road," said the eldest, "and there came up Prince Chitakov's
drag with four roans."

"Prince Chitakov! I didn't know there was such a prince."

"Oh, dear, yes; with very stiff mustaches, turned up high at the corners, and pink cheeks,
and a very sharp, nobby-looking hat, with a light-colored grey coat, and light gloves. You
must know the prince."

"Upon my word, I never heard of him, my dear. What did the prince do?"

"He was tooling his own drag, and he had a lady with him on the box. I never saw anything more
tasty than her dress,--dark red silk, with little fluffy fur ornaments all over it. I wonder
who she was?"

"Mrs. Chitakov, probably," said the attorney.

"I don't think the prince is a married man," said Sophy.

"They never are, for the most part," said Amelia; "and she wouldn't be Mrs. Chitakov, Uncle John."

"Wouldn't she, now? What would she be? Can either of you tell me what the wife of a Prince
of Chitakov would call herself?"

"Princess of Chitakov, of course," said Sophy. "It's the Princess of Wales."

"But it isn't the Princess of Christian, nor yet the Princess of Teck, nor the Princess of
England. I don't see why the lady shouldn't be Mrs. Chitakov, if there is such a lady."

"Papa, don't bamboozle her," said his daughter.

"But," continued the attorney, "why shouldn't the lady have been his wife? Don't married ladies
wear little fluffy fur ornaments?"

"I wish, John, you wouldn't talk to the girls in that strain," said their mother. "It really
isn't becoming."

"To suggest that the lady was the gentleman's wife?"

"But I was going to say," continued Amelia, "that as the prince drove by he kissed his hand--he
did, indeed. And Sophy and I were walking along as demurely as possible. I never was so knocked
of a heap in all my life."

"He did," said Sophy. "It's the most impertinent thing I ever heard. If my father had seen
it he'd have had the prince off the box of the coach in no time."

"Then, my dear," said the attorney, "I am very glad that your father did not see it." Poor
Dolly, during this conversation about the prince, sat angry and silent, thinking to herself
in despair of what extremes of vulgarity even a first cousin of her own could be guilty. That
she should be sitting at table with a girl who could boast that a reprobate foreigner had kissed
his hand to her from the box of a fashionable four-horsed coach! For it was in that light that
Miss Grey regarded it. "And did you have any farther adventures besides this memorable encounter
with the prince?"

"Nothing nearly so interesting," said Sophy.

"That was hardly to be expected," said the attorney. "Jane, you will have a glass of port-wine?
Girls, you must have a glass of port-wine to support you after your disappointment with the
prince."

"We were not disappointed in the least," said Amelia.

"Pray, pray, let the subject drop," said Dolly.

"That is because the prince did not kiss his hand to you," said Sophy. Then Miss Grey sunk
again into silence, crushed beneath this last blow.

In the evening, when the dinner-things had been taken away, a matter of business came up, and
took the place of the prince and his mustaches. Mrs. Carroll was most anxious to know whether
her brother could "lend" her a small sum of twenty pounds. It came out in conversation that
the small sum was needed to satisfy some imperious demand made upon Mr. Carroll by a tailor.
"He must have clothes, you know," said the poor woman, wailing. "He doesn't have many, but
he must have some." There had been other appeals on the same subject made not very long since,
and, to tell the truth, Mr. Grey did require to have the subject argued, in fear of the subsequent
remarks which would be made to him afterward by his daughter if he gave the money too easily.
The loan had to be arranged in full conclave, as otherwise Mrs. Carroll would have found it
difficult to obtain access to her brother's ear. But the one auditor whom she feared was her
niece. On the present occasion Miss Grey simply took up her book to show that the subject was
one which had no interest for her; but she did undoubtedly listen to all that was said on the
subject. "There was never anything settled about poor Patrick's clothes," said Mrs. Carroll,
in a half-whisper. She did not care how much her own children heard, and she knew how vain
it was to attempt so to speak that Dolly should not hear.

"I dare say something ought to be done at some time," said Mr. Grey, who knew that he would
be told, when the evening was over, that he would give away all his substance to that man if
he were asked.

"Papa has not had a new pair of trousers this year," said Sophy.

"Except those green ones he wore at the races," said Georgina.

"Hold your tongue, miss!" said her mother. "That was a pair I made up for him and sent them
to the man to get pressed."

"When the hundred a year was arranged for all our dresses," said Amelia, "not a word was said
about papa. Of course, papa is a trouble."

"I don't see that he is more of a trouble than any one else," said Sophy. "Uncle John would
not like not to have any clothes."

"No, I should not, my dear."

"And his own income is all given up to the house uses." Here Sophy touched imprudently on a
sore subject. His "own" income consisted of what had been saved out of his wife's fortune,
and was thus named as in opposition to the larger sum paid to Mrs. Carroll by Mr. Grey. There
was one hundred and fifty pounds a year coming from settled property, which had been preserved
by the lawyer's care, and which was regarded in the family as "papa's own."

It certainly is essential for respectability that something should be set apart from a man's
income for his wearing apparel; and though the money was, perhaps, improperly so designated,
Dolly would not have objected had she not thought that it had already gone to the race-course,--in
company with the green trousers. She had her own means of obtaining information as to the Carroll
family. It was very necessary that she should do so, if the family was to be kept on its legs
at all. "I don't think any good can come from discussing what my uncle does with the money."
This was Dolly's first speech. "If he is to have it, let him have it, but let him have as little
as possible."

"I never heard anybody so cross as you always are to papa," said Sophy.

"Your cousin Dorothy is very fortunate," said Mrs. Carroll. "She does not know what it is to
want for anything."

"She never spends anything--on herself," said her father. "It is Dolly's only fault that she
won't."

"Because she has it all done for her," said Amelia.

Dolly had gone back to her book, and disdained to make any farther reply. Her father felt that
quite enough had been said about it, and was prepared to give the twenty pounds, under the
idea that he might be thought to have made a stout fight upon the subject. "He does want them
very badly--for decency's sake," said the poor wife, thus winding up her plea. Then Mr. Grey
got out his check-book and wrote the check for twenty pounds. But he made it payable, not to
Mr. but to Mrs. Carroll.

"I suppose, papa, nothing can be done about Mr. Carroll." This was said by Dolly as soon as
the family had withdrawn.

"In what way 'done,' my dear?"

"As to settling some farther sum for himself."

"He'd only spend it, my dear."

"That would be intended," said Dolly.

"And then he would come back just the same."

"But in that case he should have nothing more. Though they were to declare that he hadn't a
pair of trousers in which to appear at a race-course, he shouldn't have it."

"My dear," said Mr. Grey, "you cannot get rid of the gnats of the world. They will buzz and
sting and be a nuisance. Poor Jane suffers worse from this gnat than you or I. Put up with
it; and understand in your own mind that when he comes for another twenty pounds he must have
it. You needn't tell him, but so it must be."

"If I had my way," said Dolly, after ten minutes' silence, "I would punish him. He is an evil
thing, and should be made to reap the proper reward. It is not that I wish to avoid my share
of the world's burdens, but that justice should be done. I don't know which I hate the worst,--Uncle
Carroll or Mr. Scarborough."

The next day was Sunday, and Dolly was very anxious before breakfast to induce her father to
say that he would go to church with her; but he was inclined to be obstinate, and fell back
upon his usual excuse, saying that there were Scarborough papers which it would be necessary
that he should read before he started for Tretton on the following day.

"Papa, I think it would do you good if you came."

"Well, yes; I suppose it would. That is the intention; but somehow it fails with me sometimes."

"Do you think that you hate people when you go to church as much as when you don't?"

"I am not sure that I hate anybody very much."

"I do."

"That seems an argument for your going."

"But if you don't hate them it is because you won't take the trouble, and that again is not
right. If you would come to church you would be better for it all round. You'd hate Uncle Carroll's
idleness and abominable self-indulgence worse than you do."

"I don't love him, as it is, my dear."

"And I should hate him less. I felt last night as though I could rise from my bed and go and
murder him."

"Then you certainly ought to go to church."

"And you had passed him off just as though he were a gnat from which you were to receive as
little annoyance as possible, forgetting the influence he must have on those six unfortunate
children. Don't you know that you gave her that twenty pounds simply to be rid of a disagreeable
subject?"

"I should have given it ever so much sooner, only that you were looking at me."

"I know you would, you dear, sweet, kind-hearted, but most un-Christian, father. You must come
to church, in order that some idea of what Christianity demands of you may make its way into
your heart. It is not what the clergyman may say of you, but that your mind will get away for
two hours from that other reptile and his concerns." Then Mr. Grey, with a loud, long sigh,
allowed his boots, and his gloves, and his church-going hat, and his church-going umbrella
to be brought to him. It was, in fact, his aversion to these articles that Dolly had to encounter.

It may be doubted whether the church services of that day did Mr. Grey much good; but they
seemed to have had some effect upon his daughter, from the fact that in the afternoon she wrote
a letter in kindly words to her aunt: "Papa is going to Tretton, and I will come up to you
on Tuesday. I have got a frock which I will bring with me as a present for Potsey; and I will
make her sew on the buttons for herself. Tell Minna I will lend her that book I spoke of. About
those boots--I will go with Georgina to the boot-maker." But as to Amelia and Sophy she could
not bring herself to say a good-natured word, so deep in her heart had sunk that sin of which
they had been guilty with reference to Prince Chitakov.

On that night she had a long discussion with her father respecting the affairs of the Scarborough
family. The discussion was held in the dining-room, and may, therefore, be supposed to have
been premeditated. Those at night in Mr. Grey's own bedroom were generally the result of sudden
thought. "I should lay down the law to him--" began Dolly.

"The law is the law," said her father.

"I don't mean the law in that sense. I should tell him firmly what I advised, and should then
make him understand that if he did not follow my advice I must withdraw. If his son is willing
to pay these money-lenders what sums they have actually advanced, and if by any effort on his
part the money can be raised, let it be done. There seems to be some justice in repaying out
of the property that which was lent to the property when by Mr. Scarborough's own doing the
property was supposed to go into the eldest son's hands. Though the eldest son and the money-lenders
be spendthrifts and profligates alike, there will in that be something of fairness. Go there
prepared with your opinion. But if either father or son will not accept it, then depart, and
shake the dust from your feet."

"You propose it all as though it were the easiest thing in the world."

"Easy or difficult. I would not discuss anything of which the justice may hereafter be disputed."

What was the result of the consultation on Mr. Grey's mind he did not declare, but he resolved
to take his daughter's advice in all that she said to him.

CHAPTER XIX.

MR. GREY GOES TO TRETTON.

Mr. Grey went down to Tretton with a great bag of papers. In fact, though he told his daughter
that he had to examine them all before he started, and had taken them to Fulham for that purpose,
he had not looked at them. And, as another fact, the bag was not opened till he got home again.
They had been read;--at any rate, what was necessary. He knew his subject. The old squire knew
it well.

Mr. Grey was going down to Tretton, not to convey facts or to explain the law, but in order
that he might take the side either of the father or of the son. Mr. Scarborough had sent for
the lawyer to support his view of the case; and the son had consented to meet him in order
that he might the more easily get the better of his father.

Mr. Grey had of late learned one thing which had before been dark to him,--had seen one phase
of this complicated farrago of dishonesty which had not before been visible to him. Augustus
suspected his father of some farther treachery. That he should be angry at having been debarred
from his birthright so long,--debarred from the knowledge of his birthright,--was, Mr. Grey
thought, natural. A great wrong had been, at least, intended; and that such a man should resent
it was to have been expected. But of late Mr. Grey had discovered that it was not in that way
that the son's mind worked. It was not anger but suspicion that he showed; and he used his
father's former treatment of him as a justification for the condemnation implied in his thoughts.
There is no knowing what an old man may do who has already acted as he had done. It was thus
that he expressed himself both by his words and deeds, and did so openly in his father's presence,
Mr. Grey had not seen them together, but knew from the letters of both of them that such was
the case. Old Mr. Scarborough scorned his son's suspicions, and disregarded altogether any
words that might be said as to his own past conduct. He was willing, or half willing, that
Mountjoy's debts should be, not paid, but settled. But he was willing to do nothing toward
such a step except in his own way. While the breath was in his body the property was his, and
he chose to be treated as its only master. If Augustus desired to do anything by "post-obits,"
let him ruin himself after his own fashion. "It is not very likely that Augustus can raise
money by post obits, circumstanced as the property is," he had written to Mr. Grey, with a
conveyed sneer and chuckle as to the success of his own villany. It was as though he had declared
that the money-lenders had been too well instructed as to what tricks Mr. Scarborough could
play with his property to risk a second venture.

Augustus had, in truth, been awaiting his father's death with great impatience. It was unreasonable
that a man should live who had acted in such a way and who had been so cut about by the doctors.
His father's demise had, in truth, been promised to him, and to all the world. It was an understood
thing, in all circles which knew anything, that old Mr. Scarborough could not live another
month. It had been understood some time, and was understood at the present moment; and yet
Mr. Scarborough went on living,--no doubt, as an invalid in the last stage of probable dissolution,
but still with the full command of his intellect and mental powers for mischief. Augustus,
suspecting him as he did, had begun to fear that he might live too long. His brother had disappeared,
and he was the heir. If his father would die,--such had been his first thought,--he could settle
with the creditors immediately, before any tidings should be heard of his brother. But tidings
had come. His brother had been seen by Mr. Hart at Monte Carlo; and though Mr. Hart had not
yet sent home the news to the other creditors, the news had been sent at once to Augustus Scarborough
by his own paid attendant upon his brother. Of Mr. Hart's "little game" he did not yet know
the particulars; but he was confident that there was some game.

Augustus by no means gave his mother credit for the disgraceful conduct imputed to her in the
story as now told by her surviving husband. It was not that he believed in the honesty of his
mother, whom he had never known, and for whose memory he cared little, but that he believed
so fully in the dishonesty of his father. His father, when he had thoroughly understood that
Mountjoy had enveloped the property in debt, so that nothing but a skeleton would remain when
the bonds were paid, had set to work, and by the ingenuity of his brain had resolved to redeem,
as far as the Scarboroughs were concerned, their estate from its unfortunate position.

It was so that Augustus believed; this was the theory existing in his mind. That his father
should have been so clever, and Mr. Grey so blind, and even Mr. Hart and Mr. Tyrrwhit so easily
hoodwinked, was remarkable. But so it was,--or might probably be so. He felt no assurance,
but there was ever present to him the feeling of great danger. But the state of things as arranged
by his father might be established by himself. If he could get these creditors to give up their
bonds while his father's falsehood was still believed, it would be a great thing. He had learned
by degrees how small a proportion of the money claimed had, in fact, been advanced to Mountjoy,
and had resolved to confine himself to paying that. That might now probably be accepted with
gratitude. The increasing value of the estate might bear that without being crushed. But it
should be done at once, while Mountjoy was still absent and before Mr. Tyrrwhit at any rate
knew that Mountjoy had not been killed. Then had happened that accidental meeting with Mr.
Hart at Monte Carlo. That idiot of a keeper of his had been unable to keep Mountjoy from the
gambling-house. But Mr. Hart had as yet told nothing. Mr. Hart was playing some game of his
own, in which he would assuredly be foiled. The strong hold which Augustus had was in the great
infirmity of his father and in the blindness of Mr. Grey, but it would be settled. It ought
to have been well that the thing should be settled already by his father's death. Augustus
did feel strongly that the squire ought to complete his work by dying. Were the story, as now
told by him, true, he ought certainly to die, so as to make speedy atonement for his wickedness.
Were it false, then he ought to go quickly, so that the lie might be effectual. Every day that
he continued to live would go far to endanger the discovery. Augustus felt that he must at
once have the property in his own hands, so as to buy the creditors and obtain security.

Mr. Grey, who was not so blind as Augustus thought him, saw a great deal of this. Augustus
suspected him as well as the squire. His mind went backward and forward on these suspicions.
It was more probable that the squire should have contrived all this with the attorney's assistance
than without it. The two, willing it together, might be very powerful. But then Mr. Grey would
hardly dare to do it. His father knew that he was dying; but Mr. Grey had no such easy mode
of immediate escape if detected. And his father was endowed with a courage as peculiar as it
was great. He did not think that Mr. Grey was so brave a man as his father. And then he could
trace the payment of no large sum to Mr. Grey,--such as would have been necessary as a bribe
in such a case. Augustus suspected Mr. Grey, on and off. But Mr. Grey was sure that Augustus
suspected his own father. Now, of one thing Mr. Grey was certain:--Augustus was, in truth,
the rightful heir. The squire had at first contrived to blind him,--him, Mr. Grey,--partly
by his own acuteness, partly through the carelessness of himself and those in his office, partly
by the subornation of witnesses who seemed to have been actually prepared for such an event.
But there could be no subsequent blinding. Mr. Grey had a well-earned reputation for professional
acuteness and honesty. He knew there was no need for such suspicions as those now entertained
by the young man; but he knew also that they existed, and he hated the young man for entertaining
them.

When he arrived at Tretton Park he first of all saw Mr. Septimus Jones, with whom he was not
acquainted. "Mr. Scarborough will be here directly. He is out somewhere about the stables,"
said Mr. Jones, in that tone of voice with which a guest at the house,--a guest for pleasure,--may
address sometimes a guest who is a guest on business. In such a case the guest on pleasure
cannot be a gentleman, and must suppose that the guest on business is not one either.

Mr. Grey, thinking that the Mr. Scarborough spoken of could not be the squire, put Mr. Jones
right. "It is the elder Mr. Scarborough whom I wish to see. There is quite time enough. No
doubt Miss Scarborough will be down presently."

"You are Mr. Grey, I believe?"

"That is my name."

"My friend, Augustus Scarborough, is particularly anxious to see you before you go to his father.
The old man is in very failing health, you know."

"I am well acquainted with the state of Mr. Scarborough's health," said Mr. Grey, "and will
leave it to himself to say when I shall see him. Perhaps to-morrow will be best." Then he rung
the bell; but the servant entered the room at the same moment and summoned him up to the squire's
chamber. If, however, the heir of any one of the aforesaid has been under age and in wardship, let
him have his inheritance without relief and without fine when he
comes of age.

4.

5. The guardian, moreover, so long as he has the wardship of the land, shall keep up the houses,
parks, fishponds, stanks, mills, and other things pertaining to the land, out of the issues of
the same land; and he shall restore to the heir, when he has come
to full age, all his land, stocked with ploughs and wainage, according
as the season of husbandry shall require, and the issues of the land
can reasonable bear.

6.

10. If one who has borrowed from the Jews any sum, great or small, die before that loan be
repaid, the debt shall not bear interest while the heir is under
age, of whomsoever he may hold; and if the debt fall into our hands,
we will not take anything except the principal sum contained in the
bond.

In like manner it shall be done concerning aids from the city of
London.

And for obtaining the common counsel of the kingdom anent the assessing of an aid (except in
the three cases aforesaid) or of a scutage, we will cause to be summoned the archbishops,
bishops, abbots, earls, and greater barons, severally by our letters; and we will moveover cause
to be summoned generally, through our sheriffs and bailiffs, and others who hold of us in chief,
for a fixed date, namely, after the expiry of at least forty days, and at a fixed place; and
in all letters of such summons we will specify the reason of the summons. And when the summons
has thus been made, the business shall proceed on the day appointed, according to the counsel
of such as are present, although not all who were summoned have come.

15.

16. No one shall be distrained for performance of greater service for a knight's fee, or for
any other free tenement, than is due therefrom.

17. Common pleas shall not follow our court, but shall be held in
some fixed place.

18.

19. And if any of the said assizes cannot be taken on the day of the county court, let there remain
of the knights and freeholders, who were present at the county court on that day, as many as
may be required for the efficient making of judgments, according as the business be more or
less.

20. A freeman shall not be amerced for a slight offense, except in accordance with the degree
of the offense; and for a grave offense he shall be amerced in accordance with the gravity
of the offense, yet saving always his "contentment"; and a merchant
in the same way, saving his "merchandise"; and a villein shall be
amerced in the same way, saving his "wainage" if they have fallen
into our mercy: and none of the aforesaid amercements shall be imposed
except by the oath of honest men of the neighborhood.

21. Earls and barons shall not be amerced except through their peers, and only in accordance with
the degree of the offense.

22.

A clerk shall not be amerced in respect of his lay holding except
after the manner of the others aforesaid; further, he shall not be
amerced in accordance with the extent of his ecclesiastical benefice.

23. No village or individual shall be compelled to make bridges at river banks, except those
who from of old were legally bound to do so.
24. No sheriff, constable, coroners, or others of our bailiffs, shall
hold pleas of our Crown.

25. All counties, hundred, wapentakes, and
trithings (except our demesne manors) shall remain at the old rents,
and without any additional payment.

26. If anyone holding of us a
lay fief shall die, and our sheriff or bailiff shall exhibit our letters
patent of summons for a debt which the deceased owed us, it shall
be lawful for our sheriff or bailiff to attach and enroll the chattels
of the deceased, found upon the lay fief, to the value of that debt,
at the sight of law worthy men, provided always that nothing whatever
be thence removed until the debt which is evident shall be fully paid
to us; and the residue shall be left to the executors to fulfill the
will of the deceased; and if there be nothing due from him to us,
all the chattels shall go to the deceased, saving to his wife and
children their reasonable shares.

29. No constable shall compel any
knight to give money in lieu of castle-guard, when he is willing to
perform it in his own person, or (if he himself cannot do it from
any reasonable cause) then by another responsible man. Further, if
we have led or sent him upon military service, he shall be relieved
from guard in proportion to the time during which he has been on service
because of us. But what do you think of Mountjoy and Augustus?"

"I think that Mountjoy has been very ill-used."

"But I endeavored to do the best I could for him."

"And that Augustus has been worse used."

"But he, at any rate, has been put right quite in time. Had he been brought up as the eldest
son he might have done as Mountjoy did." Then there came a little gleam of satisfaction across
the squire's face as he felt the sufficiency of his answer. "But they are neither of them pleased."

"You cannot please men by going wrong, even in their own behalf."

"I'm not so sure of that. Were you to say that we cannot please men ever by doing right on
their behalf you would perhaps be nearer the mark. Where do you think that Mountjoy is?" A
rumor, had reached Mr. Grey that Mountjoy had been seen at Monte Carlo, but it had been only
a rumor. The same had, in truth, reached Mr. Scarborough, but he chose to keep his rumor to
himself. Indeed, more than a rumor had reached him.

"I think that he will turn up safely," said the lawyer. "I think that if it were made worth
his while he would turn up at once."

"Is it not better that he should be away?" Mr. Grey shrugged his shoulders. "What's the good
of his coming back into a nest of hornets? I have always thought that he did very well to disappear.
Where is he to live if he came back? Should he come here?"

"Not with his gambling debts unpaid at the club."

"That might have been settled. Though, indeed, his gambling was as a tub that has no bottom
to it. There has been nothing for it but to throw him over altogether. And yet how very much
the better he has been of the two! Poor Mountjoy!"

"Poor Mountjoy!"

"You see, if I hadn't disinherited him I should have had to go on paying for him till the whole
estate would have been squandered even during my lifetime."

"You speak as though the law had given you the power of disinheriting him."

"So it did."

"But not the power of giving him the inheritance."

"I took that upon myself. There I was stronger than the law. Now I simply and humbly ask the
law to come and help me. And the upshot is that Augustus takes upon himself to lecture me and
to feel aggrieved. He is not angry with me for what I did about Mountjoy, but is quarrelling
with me because I do not die. I have no idea of dying just to please him. I think it important
that I should live just at present."

"But will you let him have the money to pay these creditors?"

"That is what I want to speak about. If I can see the list of the sums to be paid, and if you
can assure yourself that by paying them I shall get back all the post-obit bonds which Mountjoy
has given, and that the money can be at once raised upon a joint mortgage, to be executed by
me and Augustus, I will do it. But the first thing must be to know the amount. I will join
Augustus in nothing without your consent. He wants to assume the power himself. In fact, the
one thing he desires is that I shall go. As long as I remain he shall do nothing except by
my co-operation. I will see you and him to-morrow, and now you may go and eat your dinner.
I cannot tell you how much obliged I am to you for coming." And then Mr. Grey left the room,
went to his chamber, and in process of time made his way into the drawing-room.

CHAPTER XX.

MR. GREY'S OPINION OF THE SCARBOROUGH FAMILY.

Had Augustus been really anxious to see Mr. Grey before Mr. Grey went to his father, he would
probably have managed to do so. He did not always tell Mr. Jones everything. "So the fellow
has hurried up to the governor the moment he came into the house," he said.

"He's with him now."

"Of course he is. Never mind. I'll be even with him in the long-run." Then he greeted the lawyer
with a mock courtesy as soon as he saw him. "I hope your journey has done you no harm, Mr. Grey."

"Not in the least."

"It's very kind of you, I am sure, to look after our poor concerns with so much interest. Jones,
don't you think it is time they gave us some dinner? Mr. Grey, I'm sure, must want his dinner."

"All in good time," said the lawyer.

"You shall have your dinner, Mr. Grey. It is the least we can do for you." Mr. Grey felt that
in every sound of his voice there was an insult, and took special notice of every tone, and
booked them all down in his memory. After dinner he asked some unimportant question with reference
to the meeting that was to take place in the morning, and was at once rebuked. "I do not know
that we need trouble our friend here with our private concerns," he said.

"Not in the least," said Mr. Grey. "You have already been talking about them in my presence
and in his. It is necessary that I should have a list of the creditors before I can advise
your father."

"I don't see it; but, however, that is for you to judge. Indeed, I do not know on what points
my father wants your advice. A lawyer generally furnishes such a list." Then Mr. Grey took
up a book, and was soon left alone by the younger men.

In the morning he walked out in the park, so as to have free time for thought. Not a word farther
had been said between him and Augustus touching their affairs. At breakfast Augustus discussed
with his friend the state of the odds respecting some race and then the characters of certain
ladies. No subjects could have been less interesting to Mr. Grey, as Augustus was aware. They
breakfasted at ten, and twelve had been named for the meeting. Mr. Grey had an hour or an hour
and a half for his walk, in which he could again turn over in his mind all these matters of
which his thoughts had been full for now many a day.

Of two or three facts he was certain. Augustus was the legitimate heir of his father. Of that
he had seen ample documentary evidence. The word of no Scarborough should go for anything with
him;--but of that fact he was assured. Whether the squire knew aught of Mountjoy he did not
feel sure, but that Augustus did he was quite certain. Who was paying the bills for the scapegrace
during his travels he could not say, but he thought it probable that Augustus was finding the
money. He, Mountjoy, was kept away, so as to be out of the creditors' way.

He thought, therefore, that Augustus was doing this, so that he might the more easily buy up
the debts. But why should Augustus go to the expense of buying up the debts, seeing that the
money must ultimately come out of his own pocket? Because,--so Mr. Grey thought,--Augustus
would not trust his own father. The creditors, if they could get hold of Mountjoy when his
father was dead, and when the bonds would all become payable, might possibly so unravel the
facts as to make it apparent that, after all, the property was Mountjoy's. This was not Mr.
Grey's idea, but was Mr. Grey's idea of the calculation which Augustus was making for his own
government. According to Mr. Grey's reading of all the facts of the case, such were the suspicions
which Augustus entertained in the matter. Otherwise, why should he be anxious to take a step
which would redound only to the advantage of the creditors? He was quite certain that no money
would be paid, at any rate, by Augustus, solely with the view of honestly settling their claims.

But there was another subject which troubled his mind excessively as he walked across the park.
Why should he soil his hands, or, at any rate, trouble his conscience, with an affair so unclean,
so perplexed, and so troublesome? Why was he there at Tretton at all, to be insulted by a young
blackguard such as he believed Augustus Scarborough to be? Augustus Scarborough, he knew, suspected
him. But he, in return, suspected Augustus Scarborough. The creditors suspected him. Mountjoy
suspected him. The squire did not suspect him, but he suspected the squire. He never could
again feel himself to be on comfortable terms of trusting legal friendship with a man who had
played such a prank in reference to his marriage as this man had performed. Why, then, should
he still be concerned in a matter so distasteful to him? Why should he not wipe his hands of
it all and retreat? There was no act of parliament compelling him to meddle with the dirt.

Such were his thoughts. But yet he knew that he was compelled. He did feel himself bound to
look after interests which he had taken in hand now for many years. It had been his duty,--or
the duty of some one belonging to him,--to see into the deceit by which an attempt had been
made to rob Augustus Scarborough of his patrimony. It had been his duty, for a while, to protect
Mountjoy, and the creditors who had lent their money to Mountjoy, from what he had believed
to be a flagitious attempt. Then, as soon as he felt that the flagitious attempt had been made
previously, in Mountjoy's favor, it became his duty to protect Augustus, in spite of the strong
personal dislike which from the first he had conceived for that young man.

And then he doubtless had been attracted by the singularity of all that had been done in the
affair, and of all that was likely to be done. He had said to himself that the matter should
be made straight, and that he would make it straight. Therefore, during his walk in the park,
he resolved that he must persevere.

At twelve o'clock he was ready to be taken up to the sick man's room. When he entered it, under
the custody of Miss Scarborough, he found that Augustus was there. The squire was sitting up,
with his feet supported, and was apparently in a good humor. "Well, Mr. Grey," he said, "have
you settled this matter with Augustus?"

"I have settled nothing."

"He has not spoken to me about it at all," said Augustus.

"I told him I wanted a list of the creditors. He said that it was my duty to supply it. That
was the extent of our conversation."

"Which he thought it expedient to have in the presence of my friend, Mr. Jones. Mr. Jones is
very well in his way, but he is not acquainted with all my affairs."

"Your son, Mr. Scarborough, has made no tender to me of any information."

"Nor, sir, has Mr. Grey sought for any information from me." During this little dialogue Mr.
Scarborough turned his face, with a smile, from one to the other, without a word.

"If Mr. Grey has anything to suggest in the way of advice, let him suggest it," said Augustus.

"Now, Mr. Grey," said the squire, with the same smile.

"Till I get farther information," said Mr. Grey, "I can only limit myself to giving the advice
which I offered to you yesterday."

"Perhaps you will repeat it, so that he may hear it," said the squire.

"If you get a list of those to whom your son Mountjoy owes money, and an assurance that the
moneys named in that list have been from time to time lent by them to him,--the actual amount,
I mean,--then I think that if you and your son Augustus shall together choose to pay those
amounts, you will make the best reparation in your power for the injury you have no doubt done
in having contrived that it should be understood that Mountjoy was legitimate."

"You need not discuss," said the squire, "any injuries that I have done. I have done a great
many, no doubt."

"But," continued the lawyer, "before any such payment is made, close inquiries should be instituted
as to the amounts of money which have absolutely passed."

"We should certainly be taken in," said the squire. "I have great admiration for Mr. Samuel
Hart. I do believe that it would be found impossible to extract the truth from Mr. Samuel Hart.
If Mr. Samuel Hart does not make money yet out of poor Mountjoy I shall be surprised."

"The truth may be ascertained," said Mr. Grey. "You should get some accountant to examine the
checks."

"When I remember how easy it was to deceive some really clever men as to the evidence of my
marriage--" began Mr. Scarborough. So the squire began, but then stopped himself, with a shrug
of his shoulders. Among the really clever men who had been easily deceived Mr. Grey was, if
not actually first in importance, foremost, at any rate, in name.

"The truth may be ascertained," Mr. Grey repeated, almost with a scowl of anger upon his brow.

"Well, yes; I suppose it may. It will be difficult, in opposition to Mr. Samuel Hart."

"You must satisfy yourselves, at any rate. These men will know that they have no other hope
of getting a shilling."

"It is a little hard to make them believe anything," said the squire. "They fancy, you know,
that if they could get a hold of Mountjoy, so as to have him in their hands when the breath
is out of my body and the bonds are really due, that then it may be made to turn out that he
is really the heir."

"We know that it is not so," said Mr. Grey. At this Augustus smiled blandly.

"We know. But it is what we can make Mr. Samuel Hart know. In truth, Mr. Samuel Hart never
allows himself to know anything,--except the amount of money which he may have at his banker's.
And it will be difficult to convince Mr. Tyrrwhit. Mr. Tyrrwhit is assured that all of us,--you
and I, and Mountjoy and Augustus,--are in a conspiracy to cheat him and the others."

"I don't wonder at it," said Mr. Grey.

"Perhaps not," continued the squire; "the circumstances, no doubt, are suspicious. But he will
have to find out his mistake. Augustus is very anxious to pay these poor men their money. It
is a noble feeling on the part of Augustus; you must admit that, Mr. Grey." The irony with
which this was said was evident in the squire's face and voice. Augustus only quietly laughed.
The attorney sat as firm as death. He was not going to argue with such a statement or to laugh
at such a joke. "I suppose it will come to over a hundred thousand pounds."

"Eighty thousand, I should think," said Augustus. "The bonds amount to a great deal more than
that--twice that."

"It is for him to judge," said the squire, "whether he is bound by his honor to pay so large
a sum to men whom I do not suppose he loves very well."

"The estate can bear it," said Augustus.

"Yes, the estate can bear it," said the attorney. "They should be paid what they have expended.
That is my idea. Your son thinks that their silence will be worth the money."

"What makes you say that?" demanded Augustus.

"Just my own opinion."

"I look upon it as an insult."

"Would you be kind enough to explain to us what is your reason for wishing to do this thing?"
asked Mr. Grey.

"No, sir; I decline to give any reason. But those which you ascribe to me are insulting."

"Will you deny them?"

"I will not assent to anything,--coming from you,--nor will I deny anything. It is altogether
out of your place as an attorney to ascribe motives to your clients. Can you raise the money,
so that it shall be forthcoming at once? That is the question."

"On your father's authority, backed by your signature, I imagine that I can do so. But I will
not answer as a certainty. The best thing would be to sell a portion of the property. If you
and your father will join, and Mountjoy also with you, it may be done."

"What has Mountjoy got to do with it?" asked the father.

"You had better have Mountjoy also. There may be some doubt as to the title. People will think
so after the tricks that have been played." This was said by the lawyer; but the squire only
laughed. He always showed some enjoyment of the fun which arose from the effects of his own
scheming. The legal world, with its entails, had endeavored to dispose of his property, but
he had shown the legal world that it was not an easy task to dispose of anything in which he
was concerned.

"How will you get hold of Mountjoy?" asked Augustus. Then the two older men only looked at
each other. Both of them believed that Augustus knew more about his brother than any one else.
"I think you had better send to Mr. Annesley and ask him."

"What does Annesley know about him?" asked the squire.

"He was the last person who saw him, at any rate, in London."

"Are you sure of that?" said Mr. Grey.

"I think I may say that I am. I think, at any rate, that I know that there was a violent quarrel
between them in the streets,--a quarrel in which the two men proceeded to blows,--and that
Annesley struck him in such a way as to leave him for dead upon the pavement. Then the young
man walked away, and Mountjoy has not been heard of, or, at least, has not been seen since.
That a man should have struck such a blow, and then, on the spur of the moment, thinking of
his own safety, should have left his opponent, I can understand. I should not like to be accused
of such treatment myself, but I can understand it. I cannot understand that the man should
have been missing altogether, and that then he should have held his tongue."

"How do you know all this?" asked the attorney.

"It is sufficient that I do know it."

"I don't believe a word of it," said the squire.

"Coming from you, of course I must put up with any contradiction," said Augustus. "I should
not bear it from any one else," and he looked at the attorney.

"One has a right to ask for your authority," said his father.

"I cannot give it. A lady is concerned whose name I shall not mention. But it is of less importance,
as his own friends are acquainted with the nature of his conduct. Indeed, it seems odd to see
you two gentlemen so ignorant as to the matter which has been a subject of common conversation
in most circles. His uncle means to cut him out from the property."

"Can he too deal with entails?" said the squire.

"He is still in middle life, and he can marry. That is what he intended to do, so much is he
disgusted with his nephew. He has already stopped the young man's allowance, and swears that
he shall not have a shilling of his money if he can help it. The police for some time were
in great doubt whether they would not arrest him. I think I am justified in saying that he
is a thorough reprobate."

"You are not at all justified," said the father.

"I can only express my opinion, and am glad to say that the world agrees with me."

"It is sickening, absolutely sickening," said the squire, turning to the attorney. "You would
not believe, now--"

But he stopped himself. "What would not Mr. Grey believe?" asked the son.

"There is no one one knows better than you that after the row in the street,--when Mountjoy
was, I believe, the aggressor,--he was again seen by another person. I hate such deceit and
scheming." Here Augustus smiled. "What are you sniggering there at, you blockhead?"

"Your hatred, sir, at deceit and scheming. The truth is that when a man plays a game well,
he does not like to find that he has any equal. Heaven forbid that I should say that there
is rivalry here. You, sir, are so pre-eminently the first that no one can touch you." Then
he laughed long,--a low, bitter, inaudible laugh,--during which Mr. Grey sat silent.

"This comes well from you!" said the father.

"Well, sir, you would try your hand upon me. I have passed over all that you have done on my
behalf. But when you come to abuse me I cannot quite take your words as calmly as though there
had been--no, shall I say, antecedents? Now about this money. Are we to pay it?"

"I don't care one straw about the money. What is it to me? I don't owe these creditors anything."

"Nor do I."

"Let them rest, then, and do the worst they can. But upon the whole, Mr. Grey," he added, after
a pause, "I think we had better pay them. They have endeavored to be insolent to me, and I
have therefore ignored their claim. I have told them to do their worst. If my son here will
agree with you in raising the money, and if Mountjoy,--as he, too, is necessary,--will do so,
I too will do what is required of me. If eighty thousand pounds will settle it all, there ought
not to be any difficulty. You can inquire what the real amount would be. If they choose to
hold to their bonds, nothing will come of it;--that's all."

"Very well, Mr. Scarborough. Then I shall know how to proceed. I understand that Mr. Scarborough,
junior, is an assenting party?" Mr. Scarborough, junior, signified his assent by nodding his head.

"That will do, then, for I think that I have a little exhausted myself." Then he turned round
upon his couch, as though he intended to slumber. Mr. Grey left the room, and Augustus followed
him, but not a word was spoken between them. Mr. Grey had an early dinner and went up to London
by an evening train. What became of Augustus he did not inquire, but simply asked for his dinner
and for a conveyance to the train. These were forthcoming, and he returned that night to Fulham.

"Well?" said Dolly, as soon as she had got him his slippers and made him his tea.

"I wish with all my heart I had never seen any one of the name of Scarborough!"

"That is of course;--but what have you done?"

"The father has been a great knave. He has set the laws of his country at defiance, and should
be punished most severely. And Mountjoy Scarborough has proved himself to be unfit to have
any money in his hands. A man so reckless is little better than a lunatic. But compared with
Augustus they are both estimable, amiable men. The father has ideas of philanthropy, and Mountjoy
is simply mad. But Augustus is as dishonest as either of them, and is odious also all round."
Then at length he explained all that he had learned, and all that he had advised, and at last
went to bed combating Dolly's idea that the Scarboroughs ought now to be thrown over altogether.

CHAPTER XXI.

MR. SCARBOROUGH'S THOUGHTS OF HIMSELF.

When Mr. Scarborough was left alone he did not go to sleep, as he had pretended, but lay there
for an hour, thinking of his position and indulging to the full the feelings of anger which
he now entertained toward his second son. He had never, in truth, loved Augustus. Augustus
was very like his father in his capacity for organizing deceit, for plotting, and so contriving
that his own will should be in opposition to the wills of all those around him. But they were
thoroughly unlike in the object to be attained. Mr. Scarborough was not a selfish man. Augustus
was selfish and nothing else. Mr. Scarborough hated the law,--because it was the law and endeavored
to put a restraint upon him and others. Augustus liked the law,--unless when in particular
points it interfered with his own actions. Mr. Scarborough thought that he could do better
than the law. Augustus wished to do worse. Mr. Scarborough never blushed at what he himself
attempted, unless he failed, which was not often the case. But he was constantly driven to
blush for his son. Augustus blushed for nothing and for nobody. When Mr. Scarborough had declared
to the attorney that just praise was due to Augustus for the nobility of the sacrifice he was
making, Augustus had understood his father accurately and determined to be revenged, not because
of the expression of his father's thoughts, but because he had so expressed himself before
the attorney. Mr. Scarborough also thought that he was entitled to his revenge.

When he had been left alone for an hour he rung the bell, which was close at his side, and
called for Mr. Merton. "Where is Mr. Grey?"

"I think he has ordered the wagonette to take him to the station."

"And where is Augustus?"

"I do not know."

"And Mr. Jones? I suppose they have not gone to the station. Just feel my pulse, Merton. I
am afraid I am very weak." Mr. Merton felt his pulse and shook his head. "There isn't a pulse,
so to speak."

"Oh yes; but it is irregular. If you will exert yourself so violently--"

"That is all very well; but a man has to exert himself sometimes, let the penalty be what it
may. When do you think that Sir William will have to come again?" Sir William, when he came,
would come with his knife, and his advent was always to be feared.

"It depends very much on yourself, Mr. Scarborough. I don't think he can come very often, but
you can make the distances long or short. You should attend to no business."

"That is absolute rubbish."

"Nevertheless, it is my duty to say so. Whatever arrangements may be required, they should
be made by others. Of course, if you do as you have done this morning, I can suggest some little
relief. I can give you tonics and increase the amount; but I cannot resist the evil which you
yourself do yourself."

"I understand all about it."

"You will kill yourself if you go on."

"I don't mean to go on any farther,--not as I have done to-day; but as to giving up business,
that is rubbish. I have got my property to manage, and I mean to manage it myself as long as
I live. Unfortunately, there have been accidents which make the management a little rough at
times. I have had one of the rough moments to-day, but they shall not be repeated. I give you
my word for that. But do not talk to me about giving up my business. Now I'll take your tonics,
and then would you have the kindness to ask my sister to come to me?"

Miss Scarborough, who was always in waiting on her brother, was at once in the room. "Martha,"
he said, "where is Augustus?"

"I think he has gone out."

"And where is Mr. Septimus Jones?"

"He is with him, John. The two are always together."

"You would not mind giving my compliments to Mr. Jones, and telling him that his bedroom is
wanted?"

"His bedroom wanted! There are lots of bedrooms, and nobody to occupy them."

"It's a hint that I want him to go; he'd understand that."

"Would it not be better to tell Augustus?" asked the lady, doubting much her power to carry
out the instructions given to her.

"He would tell Augustus. It is not, you see, any objection I have to Mr. Jones. I have not
the pleasure of his acquaintance. He is a most agreeable young man, I'm sure; but I do not
care to entertain an agreeable young man without having a word to say on the subject. Augustus
does not think it worth his while even to speak to me about him. Of course, when I am gone,
in a month or so,--perhaps a week or two,--he can do as he pleases."

"Don't, John!"

"But it is so. While I live I am master at least of this house. I cannot see Mr. Jones, and
I do not wish to have another quarrel with Augustus. Mr. Merton says that every time I get
angry it gives Sir William another chance with the knife. I thought that perhaps you could
do it." Then Miss Scarborough promised that she would do it, and, having her brother's health
very much at heart, she did do it. Augustus stood smiling while the message was, in fact, conveyed
to him, but he made no answer. When the lady had done he bobbed his head to signify that he
acknowledged the receipt of it, and the lady retired.

"I have got my walking-papers," he said to Septimus Jones ten minutes afterward.

"I don't know what you mean."

"Don't you? Then you must be very thick-headed. My father has sent me word that you are to
be turned out. Of course he means it for me. He does not wish to give me the power of saying
that he sent me away from the house,--me, whom he has so long endeavored to rob,--me, to whom
he owes so much for taking no steps to punish his fraud. And he knows that I can take none,
because he is on his death-bed."

"But you couldn't, could you, if he were--were anywhere else?"

"Couldn't I? That's all you know about it. Understand, however, that I shall start to-morrow
morning, and unless you like to remain here on a visit to him, you had better go with me."
Mr. Jones signified his compliance with the hint, and so Miss Scarborough had done her work.

Mr. Scarborough, when thus left alone, spent his time chiefly in thinking of the condition
of his sons. His eldest son, Mountjoy, who had ever been his favorite, whom as a little boy
he had spoiled by every means in his power, was a ruined man. His debts had all been paid,
except the money due to the money-lenders. But he was not the less a ruined man. Where he was
at this moment his father did not know. All the world knew the injustice of which he had been
guilty on his boy's behalf, and all the world knew the failure of the endeavor. And now he
had made a great and a successful effort to give back to his legitimate heir all the property.
But in return the second son only desired his death, and almost told him so to his face. He
had been proud of Augustus as a lad, but he had never loved him as he had loved Mountjoy. Now
he knew that he and Augustus must henceforward be enemies. Never for a moment did he think
of giving up his power over the estate as long as the estate should still be his. Though it
should be but for a month, though it should be but for a week, he would hold his own. Such
was the nature of the man, and when he swallowed Mr. Merton's tonics he did so more with the
idea of keeping the property out of his son's hands than of preserving his own life. According
to his view, he had done very much for Augustus, and this was the return which he received!

And in truth he had done much for Augustus. For years past it had been his object to leave
to his second son as much as would come to his first. He had continued to put money by for
him, instead of spending his income on himself.

Of this Mr. Grey had known much, but had said nothing when he was speaking those severe words
which Mr. Scarborough had always contrived to receive with laughter. But he had felt their
injustice, though he had himself ridiculed the idea of law. There had been the two sons, both
born from the same mother, and he had willed that they should be both rich men, living among
the foremost of their fellowmen, and the circumstances of the property would have helped him.
The income from year to year went on increasing.

The water-mills of Tretton and the town of Tretton had grown and been expanded within his domain,
and the management of the sales in Mr. Grey's hands had been judicious. The revenues were double
now what they had been when Mr. Scarborough first inherited it. It was all, no doubt, entailed,
but for twenty years he had enjoyed the power of accumulating a sum of money for his second
son's sake,--or would have enjoyed it, had not the accumulation been taken from him to pay
Mountjoy's debts. It was in vain that he attempted to make Mountjoy responsible for the money.
Mountjoy's debts, and irregularities, and gambling went on, till Mr. Scarborough found himself
bound to dethrone the illegitimate son, and to place the legitimate in his proper position.

In doing the deed he had not suffered much, though the circumstances which had led to the doing
of it had been full of pain. There had been an actual pleasure to him in thus showing himself
to be superior to the conventionalities of the world. There was Augustus still ready to occupy
the position to which he had in truth been born. And at the moment Mountjoy had gone--he knew
not where. There had been gambling debts which, coming as they did after many others, he had
refused to pay. He himself was dying at the moment, as he thought. It would be better for him
to take up with Augustus. Mountjoy he must leave to his fate. For such a son, so reckless,
so incurable, so hopeless, it was impossible that anything farther should be done. He would
at least enjoy the power of leaving those wretched creditors without their money. There would
be some triumph, some consolation, in that. So he had done, and now his heir turned against him!

It was very bitter to him, as he lay thinking of it all. He was a man who was from his constitution
and heart capable of making great sacrifices for those he loved. He had a most thorough contempt
for the character of an honest man. He did not believe in honesty, but only in mock honesty.
And yet he would speak of an honest man with admiration, meaning something altogether different
from the honesty of which men ordinarily spoke. The usual honesty of the world was with him
all pretence, or, if not, assumed for the sake of the character it would achieve. Mr. Grey
he knew to be honest; Mr. Grey's word he knew to be true; but he fancied that Mr. Grey had
adopted this absurd mode of living with the view of cheating his neighbors by appearing to
be better than others. All virtue and all vice were comprised by him in the words "good-nature"
and "ill-nature." All church-going propensities,--and these propensities in his estimate extended
very widely,--he scorned from the very bottom of his heart. That one set of words should be
deemed more wicked than another, as in regard to swearing, was to him a sign either of hypocrisy,
of idolatry, or of feminine weakness of intellect. To women he allowed the privilege of being,
in regard to thought, only something better than dogs. When his sister Martha shuddered at
some exclamation from his mouth, he would say to himself simply that she was a woman, not an
idiot or a hypocrite. Of women, old and young, he had been very fond, and in his manner to
them very tender; but when a woman rose to a way of thinking akin to his own, she was no longer
a woman to his senses. Against such a one his taste revolted. She sunk to the level of a man
contaminated by petticoats. And law was hardly less absurd to him than religion. It consisted
of a perplexed entanglement of rules got together so that the few might live in comfort at
the expense of the many.

Robbery, if you could get to the bottom of it, was bad, as was all violence; but taxation was
robbery, rent was robbery, prices fixed according to the desire of the seller and not in obedience
to justice, were robbery. "Then you are the greatest of robbers," his friends would say to
him. He would admit it, allowing that in such a state of society he was not prepared to go
out and live naked in the streets if he could help it. But he delighted to get the better of
the law, and triumphed in his own iniquity, as has been seen by his conduct in reference to
his sons.

In this way he lived, and was kind to many people, having a generous and an open hand. But
he was a man who could hate with a bitter hatred, and he hated most those suspected by him
of mean or dirty conduct. Mr. Grey, who constantly told him to his face that he was a rascal,
he did not hate at all. Thinking Mr. Grey to be in some respects idiotic, he respected him,
and almost loved him. He thoroughly believed Mr. Grey, thinking him to be an ass for telling
so much truth unnecessarily. And he had loved his son Mountjoy in spite of all his iniquities,
and had fostered him till it was impossible to foster him any longer. Then he had endeavored
to love Augustus, and did not in the least love him the less because his son told him frequently
of the wicked things he had done. He did not object to be told of his wickedness even by his
son. But Augustus suspected him of other things than those of which he accused him, and attempted
to be sharp with him and to get the better of him at his own game. And his son laughed at him
and scorned him, and regarded him as one who was troublesome only for a time, and who need
not be treated with much attention, because he was there only for a time. Therefore he hated
Augustus. But Augustus was his heir, and he knew that he must die soon.

But for how long could he live? And what could he yet do before he died? A braver man than
Mr. Scarborough never lived,--that is, one who less feared to die. Whether that is true courage
may be a question, but it was his, in conjunction with courage of another description. He did
not fear to die, nor did he fear to live. But what he did fear was to fail before he died.
Not to go out with the conviction that he was vanishing amid the glory of success, was to him
to be wretched at his last moment, and to be wretched at his last moment, or to anticipate
that he should be so, was to him,--even so near his last hours,--the acme of misery. How much
of life was left to him, so that he might recover something of success? Or was any moment left
to him?

He could not sleep, so he rung his bell, and again sent for Mr. Merton. "I have taken what
you told me."

"So best," said Mr. Merton. For he did not always feel assured that this strange patient would
take what had been ordered.

"And I have tried to sleep."

"That will come after a while. You would not naturally sleep just after the tonic."

"And I have been thinking of what you said about business. There is one thing I must do, and
then I can remain quiet for a fortnight, unless I should be called upon to disturb my rest
by dying."

"We will hope not."

"That may go as it pleases," said the sick man. "I want you now to write a letter for me to
Mr. Grey." Mr. Merton had undertaken to perform the duties of secretary as well as doctor,
and had thought in this way to obtain some authority over his patient for the patient's own
good; but he had found already that no authority had come to him. He now sat down at the table
close to the bedside, and prepared to write in accordance with Mr. Scarborough's dictation.
"I think that Grey,--the lawyer, you know,--is a good man."

"The world, as far as I hear it, says that he is honest."

"I don't care a straw what the world says. The world says that I am dishonest, but I am not."
Merton could only shrug his shoulders. "I don't say that because I want you to change your
opinion. I don't care what you think. But I tell you a fact. I doubt whether Grey is so absolutely
honest as I am, but, as things go, he is a good man."

"Certainly."

"But the world, I suppose, says that my son Augustus is honest?"

"Well, yes; I should suppose so."

"If you have looked into him and have seen the contrary, I respect your intelligence."

"I did not mean anything particular."

"I dare say not, and if so, I mean nothing particular as to your intelligence. He, at any rate,
is a scoundrel. Mountjoy--you know Mountjoy?"

"Never saw him in my life."

"I don't think he is a scoundrel,--not all round. He has gambled when he has not had money
to pay. That is bad. And he has promised when he wanted money, and broken his word as soon
as he had got it, which is bad also. And he has thought himself to be a fine fellow because
he has been intimate with lords and dukes, which is very bad. He has never cared whether he
paid his tailor. I do not mean that he has merely got into debt, which a young man such as
he cannot help; but he has not cared whether his breeches were his or another man's. That too
is bad. Though he has been passionately fond of women, it has only been for himself, not for
the women, which is very bad. There is an immense deal to be altered before he can go to heaven."

"I hope the change may come before it is too late," said Merton.

"These changes don't come very suddenly, you know. But there is some chance for Mountjoy. I
don't think that there is any for Augustus." Here he paused, but Merton did not feel disposed
to make any remark. "You don't happen to know a young man of the name of Annesley,--Harry Annesley?"

"I have heard his name from your son."

"From Augustus? Then you didn't hear any good of him, I'm sure. You have heard all the row
about poor Mountjoy's disappearance?"

"I heard that he did disappear."

"After a quarrel with that Annesley?"

"After some quarrel. I did not notice the name at the time."

"Harry Annesley was the name. Now, Augustus says that Harry Annesley was the last person who
saw Mountjoy before his disappearance,--he last who knew him. He implies thereby that Annesley
was the conscious or unconscious cause of his disappearance."

"Well, yes."

"Certainly it is so. And as it has been thought by the police, and by other fools, that Mountjoy
was murdered,--that his disappearance was occasioned by his death, either by murder or suicide,
it follows that Annesley must have had something to do with it. That is the inference, is it not?"

"I should suppose so," said Merton.

"That is manifestly the inference which Augustus draws. To hear him speak to me about it you
would suppose that he suspected Annesley of having killed Mountjoy."

"Not that, I hope."

"Something of the sort. He has intended it to be believed that Annesley, for his own purposes,
has caused Mountjoy to be made away with. He has endeavored to fill the police with that idea.
A policeman, generally, is the biggest fool that London, or England, or the world produces,
and has been selected on that account. Therefore the police have a beautifully mysterious but
altogether ignorant suspicion as to Annesley. That is the doing of Augustus, for some purpose
of his own. Now, let me tell you that Augustus saw Mountjoy after Annesley had seen him, that
he knows this to be the case, and that it was Augustus, who contrived Mountjoy's disappearance.
Now what do you think of Augustus?" This was a question which Merton did not find it very easy
to answer. But Mr. Scarborough waited for a reply. "Eh?" he exclaimed.

"I had rather not give an opinion on a point so raised."

"You may. Of course you understand that I intend to assert that Augustus is the greatest blackguard
you ever knew. If you have anything to say in his favor you can say it."

"Only that you may be mistaken. Living down here, you may not know the truth."

"Just that. But I do know the truth. Augustus is very clever; but there are others as clever
as he is. He can pay, but then so can I. That he should want to get Mountjoy out of the way
is intelligible. Mountjoy has become disreputable, and had better be out of the way. But why
persistently endeavor to throw the blame upon young Annesley? That surprises me;--only I do
not care much about it. I hear now for the first time that he has ruined young Annesley, and
that does appear to be very horrible. But why does he want to pay eighty thousand pounds to
these creditors? That I should wish to do so,--out of a property which must in a very short
time become his,--would be intelligible. I may be supposed to have some affection for Mountjoy,
and, after all, am not called upon to pay the money out of my own pocket. Do you understand it?"

"Not in the least," said Merton, who did not, indeed, very much care about it.

"Nor do I;--only this, that if he could pay these men and deprive them of all power of obtaining
farther payment, let who would have the property, they at any rate would be quiet. Augustus
is now my eldest son. Perhaps he thinks he might not remain so. If I were out of the way, and
these creditors were paid, he thinks that poor Mountjoy wouldn't have a chance. He shall pay
this eighty thousand pounds. Mountjoy hasn't a chance as it is; but Augustus shall pay the
penalty."

Then he threw himself back on the bed, and Mr. Merton begged him to spare himself the trouble
of the letter for the present. But in a few minutes he was again on his elbow and took some
farther medicine. "I'm a great ass," he said, "to help Augustus in playing his game. If I were
to go off at once he would be the happiest fellow left alive. But come, let us begin." Then
he dictated the letter as follows:

"DEAR MR. GREY,--I have been thinking much of what passed between us the other day. Augustus
seems to be in a great hurry as to paying the creditors, and I do not see why he should not
be gratified, as the money may now be forthcoming. I presume that the sales, which will be
completed before Christmas, will nearly enable us to stop their mouths. I can understand that
Mountjoy should be induced to join with me and Augustus, so that in disposing of so large a
sum of money the authority of all may be given, both of myself and of the heir, and also of
him who a short time since was supposed to be the heir. I think that you may possibly find
Mountjoy's address by applying to Augustus, who is always clever in such matters.

"But you will have to be certain that you obtain all the bonds. If you can get Tyrrwhit to
help you you will be able to be sure of doing so. The matter to him is one of vital importance,
as his sum is so much the largest. Of course he will open his mouth very wide; but when he
finds that he can get his principal and nothing more, I think that he will help you. I am afraid
that I must ask you to put yourself in correspondence with Augustus. That he is an insolent
scoundrel I will admit; but we cannot very well complete this affair without him. I fancy that
he now feels it to be his interest to get it all done before I die, as the men will be clamorous
with their bonds as soon as the breath is out of my body.--

"Yours sincerely, JOHN SCARBOROUGH."

"That will do," he said, when the letter was finished. But when Mr. Merton turned to leave
the room Mr. Scarborough detained him. "Upon the whole, I am not dissatisfied with my life,"
he said.

"I don't know that you have occasion," rejoined Mr. Merton. In this he absolutely lied, for,
according to his thinking, there was very much in the affairs of Mr. Scarborough's life which
ought to have induced regret. He knew the whole story of the birth of the elder son, of the
subsequent marriage, of Mr. Scarborough's fraudulent deceit which had lasted so many years,
and of his later return to the truth, so as to save the property, and to give back to the younger
son all of which for so many years he, his father, had attempted to rob him.

All London had talked of the affair, and all London had declared that so wicked and dishonest
an old gentleman had never lived. And now he had returned to the truth simply with the view
of cheating the creditors and keeping the estate in the family. He was manifestly an old gentleman
who ought to be, above all others, dissatisfied with his own life; but Mr. Merton, when the
assertion was made to him, knew not what other answer to make.

"I really do not think I have, nor do I know one to whom heaven with all its bliss will be
more readily accorded. What have I done for myself?"

"I don't quite know what you have done all your life."

"I was born a rich man, and then I married,--not rich as I am now, but with ample means for
marrying."

"After Mr. Mountjoy's birth," said Merton, who could not pretend to be ignorant of the circumstance.

"Well, yes. I have my own ideas about marriage and that kind of thing, which are, perhaps,
at variance with yours." Whereupon Merton bowed. "I had the best wife in the world, who entirely
coincided with me in all that I did. I lived entirely abroad, and made most liberal allowances
to all the agricultural tenants. I rebuilt all the cottages;--go and look at them. I let any
man shoot his own game till Mountjoy came up in the world and took the shooting into his own
hands. When the people at the pottery began to build I assisted them in every way in the world.
I offered to keep a school at my own expense, solely on the understanding that what they call
Dissenters should be allowed to come there. The parson spread abroad a rumor that I was an
atheist, and consequently the School was kept for the Dissenters only. The School-board has
come and made that all right, though the parson goes on with his rumor. If he understood me
as well as I understand him, he would know that he is more of an atheist than I am. I gave
my boys the best education, spending on them more than double what is done by men with twice
my means. My tastes were all simple, and were not specially vicious. I do not know that I have
ever made any one unhappy. Then the estate became richer, but Mountjoy grew more and more expensive.
I began to find that with all my economies the estate could not keep pace with him, so as to
allow me to put by anything for Augustus. Then I had to bethink myself what I had to do to
save the estate from those rascals."

"You took peculiar steps."

"I am a man who does take peculiar steps. Another would have turned his face to the wall in
my state of health, and have allowed two dirty Jews such as Tyrrwhit and Samuel Hart to have
revelled in the wealth of Tretton. I am not going to allow them to revel. Tyrrwhit knows me,
and Hart will have to know me. They could not keep their hands to themselves till the breath
was out of my body. Now I am about to see that each shall have his own shortly, and the estate
will still be kept in the family."

"For Mr. Augustus Scarborough?"

"Yes, alas, yes! But that is not my doing. I do not know that I have cause to be dissatisfied
with myself, but I cannot but own that I am unhappy. But I wished you to understand that though
a man may break the law, he need not therefore be accounted bad, and though he may have views
of his own as to religious matters, he need not be an atheist. I have made efforts on behalf
of others, in which I have allowed no outward circumstances to control me. Now I think I do
feel sleepy."

CHAPTER XXII.

HARRY ANNESLEY IS SUMMONED HOME.

"Just now I am triumphant," Harry Annesley had said to his hostess as he left Mrs. Armitage's
house in the Paragon, at Cheltenham. He was absolutely triumphant, throwing his hat up into
the air in the abandonment of his joy. For he was not a man to have conceived so well of his
own parts as to have flattered himself that the girl must certainly be his.

There are at present a number of young men about who think that few girls are worth the winning,
but that any girl is to be had, not by asking,--which would be troublesome,--but simply by
looking at her. You can see the feeling in their faces. They are for the most part small in
stature, well made little men, who are aware that they have something to be proud of, wearing
close-packed, shining little hats, by which they seem to add more than a cubit to their stature;
men endowed with certain gifts of personal--dignity I may perhaps call it, though the word
rises somewhat too high. They look as though they would be able to say a clever thing; but
their spoken thoughts seldom rise above a small, acrid sharpness. He reached for an egg-shaped
crystal that reposed on the table; spoke rapidly into its shimmering depths. Hidden amplifiers
carried his voice throughout the square in booming tones. It was a strange tongue he spoke, with many
gutturals and sibilants. It is the girls themselves who spoil them and endure their inanity, because
of that assumed look of superiority which to the eyes of the outside world would be a little
offensive were it not a little foolish. But they do not marry often. Whether it be that the
girls know better at last, or that they themselves do not see sufficiently clearly their future
dinners, who can say? They are for the most part younger brothers, and perhaps have discovered
the best way of getting out of the world whatever scraps the world can afford them. Harry Annesley's
faults were altogether of another kind. In regard to this young woman, the Florence whom he
had loved, he had been over-modest. Now his feeling of glory was altogether redundant. Having
been told by Florence that she was devoted to him, he walked with his head among the heavens.
The first instinct with such a young man as those of whom I have spoken teaches him, the moment
he has committed himself, to begin to consider how he can get out of the scrape. It is not
much of a scrape, for when an older man comes this way, a man verging toward baldness, with
a good professional income, our little friend is forgotten and he is passed by without a word.
But Harry had now a conviction,--on that one special night,--that he never would be forgotten
and never would forget. He was filled at once with an unwonted pride. All the world was now
at his feet, and all the stars were open to him. He had begun to have a glimmering of what
it was that Augustus Scarborough intended to do; but the intentions of Augustus Scarborough
were now of no moment to him. He was clothed in a panoply of armor which would be true against
all weapons. At any rate, on that night and during the next day this feeling remained the same
with him.

Then he received a summons from his mother at Buston. His mother pressed him to come at once
down to the parsonage. "Your uncle has been with your father, and has said terrible things
about you. As you know, my brother is not very strong-minded, and I should not care so much
for what he says were it not that so much is in his hands. I cannot understand what it is all
about, but your father says that he does nothing but threaten. He talks of putting the entail
on one side. Entails used to be fixed things, I thought; but since what old Mr. Scarborough
did nobody seems to regard them now. But even suppose the entail does remain, what are you
to do about the income? Your father thinks you had better come down and have a little talk
about the matter."

This was the first blow received since the moment of his exaltation. Harry knew very well that
the entail was fixed, and could not be put aside by Mr. Prosper, though Mr. Scarborough might
have succeeded with his entail; but yet he was aware that his present income was chiefly dependent
on his uncle's good-will. To be reduced to live on his fellowship would be very dreadful. And
that income, such as it was, depended entirely on his celibacy. And he had, too, as he was
well aware, engendered habits of idleness during the last two years. The mind of a young man
so circumstanced turns always first to the Bar, and then to literature. At the Bar he did not
think that there could be any opening for him. In the first place, it was late to begin; and
then he was humble enough to believe of himself that he had none of the peculiar gifts necessary
for a judge or for an advocate. Perhaps the knowledge that six or seven years of preliminary
labor would be necessary was somewhat of a deterrent.

The rewards of literature might be achieved immediately. Such was his idea. But he had another
idea,--perhaps as erroneous,--that this career would not become a gentleman who intended to
be Squire of Buston. He had seen two or three men, decidedly Bohemian in their modes of life,
to whom he did not wish to assimilate himself. There was Quaverdale, whom he had known intimately
at St. John's, and who was on the Press. Quaverdale had quarrelled absolutely with his father,
who was also a clergyman, and having been thrown altogether on his own resources, had come
out as a writer for The Coming Hour. He made his five or six hundred a year in a rattling,
loose, uncertain sort of fashion, and was,--so thought Harry Annesley,--the dirtiest man of
his acquaintance. He did not believe in the six hundred a year, or Quaverdale would certainly
have changed his shirt more frequently, and would sometimes have had a new pair of trousers.
He was very amusing, very happy, very thoughtless, and as a rule altogether impecunious. Annesley
had never known him without the means of getting a good dinner, but those means did not rise
to the purchase of a new hat. Putting Quaverdale before him as an example, Annesley could not
bring himself to choose literature as a profession. Thinking of all this when he received his
mother's letter, he assured himself that Florence would not like professional literature.

He wrote to say that he would be down at Buston in five days' time. It does not become a son
who is a fellow of a college and the heir to a property to obey his parents too quickly. But
he gave up the intermediate days to thinking over the condition which bound him to his uncle,
and to discussing his prospects with Quaverdale, who, as usual, was remaining in town doing
the editor's work for The Coming Hour. "If he interfered with me I should tell him to go to
bed," said Quaverdale. The allusion was, of course, made to Mr. Prosper.

"I am not on those sort of terms with him."

"I should make my own terms, and then let him do his worst. What can he do? If he means to
withdraw his beggarly two hundred and fifty pounds, of course he'll do it."

"I suppose I do owe him something, in the way of respect."

"Not if he threatens you in regard to money. What does it come to? That you are to cringe at
his heels for a beggarly allowance which he has been pleased to bestow upon you without your
asking. 'Very well, my dear fellow,' I should say to him, 'you can stop it the moment you please.
For certain objects of your own,--that your heir might live in the world after a certain fashion,--you
have bestowed it. It has been mine since I was a child. If you can reconcile it to your conscience
to discontinue it, do so.' You would find that he would have to think twice about it."

"He will stop it, and what am I to do then? Can I get an opening on any of these papers?" Quaverdale
whistled,--a mode of receiving the overture which was not pleasing to Annesley. "I don't suppose
that anything so very super-human in the way of intellect is required." Annesley had got a
fellowship, whereas Quaverdale had done nothing at the university.

"Couldn't you make a pair of shoes? Shoemakers do get good wages."

"What do you mean? A fellow never can get you to be serious for two minutes together.

"I never was more serious in my life."

"That I am to make shoes?"

"No, I don't quite think that. I don't suppose you can make them. You'd have first to learn
the trade and show that you were an adept."

"And I must show that I am an adept before I can write for The Coming Hour." There was a tone
of sarcasm in this which was not lost on Quaverdale.

"Certainly you must; and that you are a better adept than I who have got the place, or some
other unfortunate who will have to be put out of his berth. The Coming Hour only requires a
certain number. Of course there are many newspapers in London, and many magazines, and much
literary work going. You may get your share of it, but you have got to begin by shoving some
incompetent fellow out. And in order to be able to begin you must learn the trade."

"How did you begin?"

"Just in that way. While you were roaming about London like a fine gentleman I began by earning
twenty-four shillings a week."

"Can I earn twenty-four shillings a week?"

"You won't because you have already got your fellowship. You had a knack at writing Greek iambics,
and therefore got a fellowship. With a howl of pain his assailant let go and dropped to the floor to
crawl away like a whipped cur.

In a flash Carr saw that the brute was reaching for his ray-pistol
where it had dropped during the encounter.

He kicked it from the reach of that hairy paw and sprang after it. With one of those little
weapons in his hands the odds would change! His fingers closed on
its grip just as Ora rushed into the room, closely followed by Rapaju,
whose distorted features were terrible to behold. There's
the trade to be learned, like any other trade; but my belief is that even then you could not
do it. We don't want Greek iambics."

Harry turned away disgusted. Quaverdale was like the rest of the world, and thought that a
peculiar talent and a peculiar tact were needed for his own business. Harry believed that he
was as able to write a leading article, at any rate, as Quaverdale, and that the Greek iambics
would not stand in his way. But he conceived it to be probable that his habits of cleanliness
might do so, and gave up the idea for the present. He thought that his friend should have welcomed
him with an open hand into the realms of literature; and, perhaps, it was the case that Quaverdale
attributed too much weight to the knack of turning readable paragraphs on any subject at any
moment's notice.

But what should he do down at Buston? There were three persons there with whom he would have
to contend,--his father, his mother, and his uncle. With his father he had always been on good
terms, but had still been subject to a certain amount of gentle sarcasm. He had got his fellowship
and his allowance, and so had been lifted above his father's authority. His father thoroughly
despised his brother-in-law, and looked down upon him as an absolute ass. But he was reticent,
only dropping a word here and there, out of deference, perhaps, to his wife, and from a feeling
lest his son might be deficient in wise courtesy, if he were encouraged to laugh at his benefactor.
He had said a word or two as to a profession when Harry left Cambridge, but the word or two
had come to nothing. In those days the uncle had altogether ridiculed the idea, and the mother,
fond of her son, the fellow and the heir, had altogether opposed the notion. The rector himself
was an idle, good-looking, self-indulgent man,--a man who read a little and understood what
he read, and thought a little and understood what he thought, but who took no trouble about
anything. To go through the world comfortably with a rather large family and a rather small
income was the extent of his ambition. In regard to his eldest son he had begun well. Harry
had been educated free, and had got a fellowship. He had never cost his father a shilling.
And now the eldest of two grown-up daughters was engaged to be married to the son of a brewer
living in the little town of Buntingford. This also was a piece of good-luck which the rector
accepted with a thankful heart. There was another grown-up girl, also pretty, and then a third
girl not grown up and the two boys who were at present at school at Royston. Thus burdened,
the Rev. Mr. Annesley went through the world with as jaunty a step as was possible, making
but little of his troubles, but anxious to make as much as he could of his advantages. Of these,
the position of Harry was the brightest, if only Harry would be careful to guard it. It was
quite out of the question that he should find an income for Harry if the squire stopped the
two hundred and fifty pounds per annum which he at present allowed him.

Then there was Harry's mother, who had already very frequently discounted the good things which
were to fall to Harry's lot. She was a dear, good, motherly woman, all whose geese were certainly
counted to be swans. And of all swans Harry was the whitest; whereas, in purity of plumage,
Mary, the eldest daughter, who had won the affections of the young Buntingford brewer, was
the next. That Harry's allowance should be stopped would be almost as great a misfortune as
though Mr. Thoroughbung were to break his neck out hunting with the Puckeridge hounds,--an
amusement which, after the manner of brewers, he was much in the habit of following. Mrs. Annesley
had lived at Buston all her life, having been born at the Hall. She was an excellent mother
of a family, and a good clergyman's wife, being in both respects more painstaking and assiduous
than her husband. But she did maintain something of respect for her brother, though in her
inmost heart she knew that he was a fool. But to have been born Squire of Buston was something,
and to have reached the age of fifty unmarried, so as to leave the position of heir open to
her own son, was more. To such a one a great deal was due; but of that deal Harry was but little
disposed to pay any part. He must be talked to, and very seriously talked to, and if possible
saved from the sin of offending his easily-offended uncle. A terrible idea had been suggested
to her lately by her husband. The entail might be made altogether inoperative by the marriage
of her brother. It was a fearful notion, but one which if it entered into her brother's head
might possibly be carried out. No one before had ever dreamed of anything so dangerous to the
Annesley interests, and Mrs. Annesley now felt that by due submission on the part of the heir
it might be avoided.

But the squire himself was the foe whom Harry most feared. He quite understood that he would
be required to be submissive, and, even if he were willing, he did not know how to act the
part. There was much now that he would endure for the sake of Florence. If Mr. Prosper demanded
that after dinner he should hear a sermon, he would sit and hear it out. It would be a bore,
but might be endured on behalf of the girl whom he loved. But he much feared that the cause
of his uncle's displeasure was deeper than that. A rumor had reached him that his uncle had
declared his conduct to Mountjoy Scarborough to have been abominable. He had heard no words
spoken by his uncle, but threats had reached him through his mother, and also through his uncle's
man of business. He certainly would go down to Buston, and carry himself toward his uncle with
what outward signs of respect would be possible. But if his uncle accused him, he could not
but tell his uncle that he knew nothing of the matter of which he was talking. Not for all
Buston could he admit that he had done anything mean or ignoble. Florence, he was quite sure,
would not desire it. Florence would not be Florence were she to desire it. He thought that
he could trace the hands,--or rather the tongues,--through which the calumny had made its way
down to the Hall. He would at once go to the Hall, and tell his uncle all the facts. He would
describe the gross ill-usage to which he had been subjected. No doubt he had left the man sprawling
upon the pavement, but there had been no sign that the man had been dangerously hurt; and when
two days afterward the man had vanished, it was clear that he could not have vanished without
legs. Had he taken himself off,--as was probable,--then why need Harry trouble himself as to
his vanishing? If some one else had helped him in escaping,--as was also probable,--why had
not that some one come and told the circumstances when all the inquiries were being made? Why
should he have been expected to speak of the circumstances of such an encounter, which could
not have been told but to Captain Scarborough's infinite disgrace? And he could not have told
of it without naming Florence Mountjoy.

His uncle, when he heard the truth, must acknowledge that he had not behaved badly. And yet
Harry, as he turned it all in his mind was uneasy as to his own conduct. He could not quite
acquit himself in that he had kept secret all the facts of that midnight encounter in the face
of the inquiries which had been made, in that he had falsely assured Augustus Scarborough of
his ignorance. And yet he knew that on no consideration would he acknowledge himself to have
been wrong.

CHAPTER XXIII.

THE RUMORS AS TO MR. PROSPER.

It was still October when Harry Annesley went down to Buston, and the Mountjoys had just reached
Brussels. Mr. Grey had made his visit to Tretton and had returned to London. Harry went home
on an understanding,--on the part of his mother, at any rate,--that he should remain there
till Christmas. But he felt himself very averse to so long a sojourn. If the Hall and park
were open to him he might endure it. He would take down two or three stiff books which he certainly
would never read, and would shoot a few pheasants, and possibly ride one of his future brother-in-law's
horses with the hounds. But he feared that there was to be a quarrel by which he would be debarred
from the Hall and the park; and he knew, too, that it would not be well for him to shoot and
hunt when his income should have been cut off. It would be necessary that some great step should
be taken at once; but then it would be necessary, also, that Florence should agree to that
step. He had a modest lodging in London, but before he started he prepared himself for what
must occur by giving notice. "I don't say as yet that I shall give them up; but I might as
well let you know that it's possible." This he said to Mrs. Brown, who kept the lodgings, and
who received this intimation as a Mrs. Brown is sure to do. But where should he betake himself
when his home at Mrs. Brown's had been lost? He would, he thought, find it quite impossible
to live in absolute idleness at the rectory. Then in an unhappy frame of mind he went down
by the train to Stevenage, and was there met by the rectory pony-carriage.

He saw it all in his mother's eye the moment she embraced him. There was some terrible trouble
in the wind, and what could it be but his uncle? "Well, mother, what is it?"

"Oh, Harry, there is such a sad affair up at the Hall!"

"Is my uncle dead?"

"Dead! No!"

"Oh Harry do not laugh. Your uncle says such dreadful things!"

"I don't care much what he says. The question is--what does he mean to do?"

"He declares that he will cut you off altogether."

"That is sooner said than done."

"That is all very well, Harry; but he can do it. Oh, Harry! But come and sit down and talk
to me. I told your father to be out, so that I might have you alone; and the dear girls are
gone into Buntingford."

"Ah, like them! Thoroughbung will have enough of them."

"He is our only happiness now."

"Poor Thoroughbung! I pity him if he has to do happiness for the whole household."

"Joshua is a most excellent young man. Where we should be without him I do not know." The flourishing
young brewer was named Joshua, and had been known to Harry for some years, though never as
yet known as a brother-in-law.

"I am sure he is; particularly as he has chosen Molly to be his wife. He is just the young
man who ought to have a wife."

"Of course he ought."

"Because he can keep a family. But now about my uncle. He is to perform this ceremony of cutting
me off. Will he turn out to have had a wife and family in former ages? I have no doubt old
Scarborough could manage it, but I don't give my uncle credit for so much cleverness."

"But in future ages--" said the unhappy mother, shaking her head and rubbing her eyes.

"You mean that he is going to have a family?"

"It is all in the hands of Providence," said the parson's wife.

"Yes; that is true. He is not too old yet to be a second Priam, and have his curtains drawn
the other way. That's his little game, is it?"

"There's a sort of rumor about, that it is possible."

"And who is the lady?"

"You may be sure there will be no lack of a lady if he sets his mind upon it. I was turning
it over in my mind, and I thought of Matilda Thoroughbung."

"Joshua's aunt!"

"Well; she is Joshua's aunt, no doubt. I did just whisper the idea to Joshua, and he says that
she is fool enough for anything. She has twenty-five thousand pounds of her own, but she lives
all by herself."

"I know where she lives,--just out of Buntingford, as you go to Royston. But she's not alone.
Is Uncle Prosper to marry Miss Tickle also?" Miss Tickle was an estimable lady living as companion
to Miss Thoroughbung.

"I don't know how they may manage; but it has to be thought of, Harry. We only know that your
uncle has been twice to Buntingford."

"The lady is fifty, at any rate."

"The lady is barely forty. She gives out that she is thirty-six. And he could settle a jointure
on her which would leave the property not worth having."

"What can I do?"

"Yes, indeed, my dear; what can you do?"

"Why is he going to upset all the arrangements of my life, and his life, after such a fashion
as this?"

"That's just what your father says."

"I suppose he can do it. The law will allow him. But the injustice would be monstrous. I did
not ask him to take me by the hand when I was a boy and lead me into this special walk of life.
It has been his own doing. How will he look me in the face and tell me that he is going to
marry a wife? I shall look him in the face and tell him of my wife."

"But is that settled?"

"Yes, mother; it is settled. Wish me joy for having won the finest lady that ever walked the
earth." His mother blessed him,--but said nothing about the finest lady,--who at that moment
she believed to be the future bride of Mr. Joshua Thoroughbung. "And when I shall tell my uncle
that it is so, what will he say to me? Will he have the face then to tell me that I am to be
cut out of Buston? I doubt whether he will have the courage."

"He has thought of that, Harry."

"How thought of it, mother?"

"He has given orders that he is not to see you."

"Not to see me!"

"So he declares. He has written a long letter to your father, in which he says that he would
be spared the agony of an interview."

"What! is it all done, then?"

"Your father got the letter yesterday. It must have taken my poor brother a week to write it."

"And he tells the whole plan,--Matilda Thoroughbung, and the future family?"

"No, he does not say anything about Miss Thoroughbung He says that he must make other arrangements
about the property."

"He can't make other arrangements; that is, not until the boy is born. It may be a long time
first, you know."

"But the jointure?"

"What does Molly say about it?"

"Molly is mad about it and so is Joshua. Joshua talks about it just as though he were one of
us, and he says that the old people at Buntingford would not hear of it." The old people spoken
of were the father and mother of Joshua, and the half-brother of Miss Matilda Thoroughbung.
"But what can they do?"

"They can do nothing. If Miss Matilda likes Uncle Prosper--"

"Likes, my dear! How young you are! Of course she would like a country house to live in, and
the park, and the county society. And she would like somebody to live with besides Miss Tickle."

"My uncle, for instance."

"Yes, your uncle."

"If I had my choice, mother, I should prefer Miss Tickle."

"Because you are a silly boy. But what are you to do now?"

"In this long letter which he has written to my father does he give no reason?"

"Your father will show you the letter. Of course he gives reasons. He says that you have done
something which you ought not to have done--about that wretched Mountjoy Scarborough."

"What does he know about it?--the idiot!"

"Oh, Harry!"

"Well, mother, what better can I say of him? He has taken me as a child and fashioned my life
for me; has said that this property should be mine, and has put an income into my hand as though
I were an eldest son; has repeatedly declared, when his voice was more potent than mine, that
I should follow no profession. He has bound himself to me, telling all the world that I was
his heir. And now he casts me out because he has heard some cock-and-bull story, of the truth
of which he knows nothing. What better can I say of him than call him an idiot? He must be
that or else a heartless knave. And he says that he does not mean to see me,--me with whose
life he has thus been empowered to interfere, so as to blast it if not to bless it, and intends
to turn me adrift as he might do a dog that did not suit him! And because he knows that he
cannot answer me he declares that he will not see me."

"It is very hard, Harry."

"Therefore I call him an idiot in preference to calling him a knave. But I am not going to
be dropped out of the running in that way, just in deference to his will. I shall see him.
Unless they lock him up in his bedroom I shall compel him to see me."

"What good would that do, Harry? That would only set him more against you."

"You don't know his weakness."

"Oh yes, I do; he is very weak."

"He will not see me, because he will have to yield when he hears what I have to say for myself.
He knows that, and would therefore fain keep away from me. Why should he be stirred to this
animosity against me?"

"Why indeed?"

"Because there is some one who wishes to injure me more strong than he is, and who has got
hold of him. Some one has lied behind my back."

"Who has done this?"

"Ah, that is the question. But I know who has done it, though I will not name him just now.
This enemy of mine, knowing him to be weak,--knowing him to be an idiot, has got hold of him
and persuaded him. He believes the story which is told to him, and then feels happy in shaking
off an incubus. No doubt I have not been very soft with him,--nor, indeed, hard. I have kept
out of his way, and he is willing to resent it; but he is afraid to face me and tell me that
it is so. Here are the girls come back from Buntingford. Molly, you blooming young bride, I
wish you joy of your brewer."

"He's none the worse on that account, Master Harry," said the eldest sister.

"All the better,--very much the better. Where would you be if he was not a brewer? But I congratulate
you with all my heart, old girl. I have known him ever so long, and he is one of the best fellows
I do know."

"Thank you, Harry," and she kissed him.

"I wish Fanny and Kate may even do so well."

"All in good time," said Fanny.

"I mean to have a banker--all to myself," said Kate.

"I wish you may have half as good a man for your husband," said Harry.

"And I am to tell you," continued Molly, who was now in high good-humor, "that there will be
always one of his horses for you to ride as long as you remain at home. It is not every brother-in-law
that would do as much as that for you."

"Nor yet every uncle," said Kate, shaking her head, from which Harry could see that this quarrel
with his uncle had been freely discussed in the family circle.

"Uncles are very different," said the mother; "uncles can't be expected to do everything as
though they were in love."

"Fancy Uncle Peter in love!" said Kate. Mr. Prosper was called Uncle Peter by the girls, though
always in a sort of joke. Then the other two girls shook their heads very gravely, from which
Harry learned that the question respecting the choice of Miss Matilda Thoroughbung as a mistress
for the Hall had been discussed also before them.

"I am not going to marry all the family," said Molly.

"Not Miss Matilda, for instance," said her brother, laughing.

"No, especially not Matilda. Joshua is quite as angry about his aunt as anybody here can be.
You'll find that he is more of an Annesley than a Thoroughbung."

"My dear," said the mother, "your husband will, as a matter of course, think most of his own
family. And so ought you to do of his family, which will be yours. A married woman should always
think most of her husband's family." In this way the mother told her daughter of her future
duties; but behind the mother's back Kate made a grimace, for the benefit of her sister Fanny,
showing thereby her conviction that in a matter of blood,--what she called being a gentleman,--a
Thoroughbung could not approach an Annesley.

"Mamma does not know it as yet," Molly said afterward in privacy to her brother, "but you may
take it for granted that Uncle Peter has been into Buntingford and has made an offer to Aunt
Matilda. I could tell it at once, because she looked so sharp at me to-day. And Joshua says
that he is sure it is so by the airs she gives herself."

"You think she'll have him?"

"Have him! Of course she'll have him. Why shouldn't she? A wretched old maid living with a
companion like that would have any one."

"She has got a lot of money."

"She'll take care of her money, let her alone for that.

"And she'll have his house to live in. And there'll be a jointure. Of course, if there were
to be children--"

"Oh, bother!"

"Well, perhaps there will not. But it will be just as bad. We don't mean even to visit them;
we think it so very wicked. And we shall tell them a bit of our mind as soon as the thing has
been publicly declared."

CHAPTER XXIV.

HARRY ANNESLEY'S MISERY.

The conversation which took place that evening between Harry and his father was more serious
in its language, though not more important in its purpose. "This is bad news, Harry," said
the rector.

"Yes, indeed, sir."'

"Your uncle, no doubt, can do as he pleases."

"You mean as to the income he has allowed me?"

"As to the income! As to the property itself. It is bad waiting for dead men's shoes."

"And yet it is what everybody does in this world. No one can say that I have been at all in
a hurry to step into my uncle's shoes. It was he that first told you that he should never marry,
and as the property had been entailed on me, he undertook to bring me up as his son."

"So he did."

"Not a doubt about it, sir. But I had nothing to say to it. As far as I understand, he has
been allowing me two hundred and fifty pounds a year for the last dozen years."

"Ever since you went to the Charter-house."

"At that time I could not be expected to have a word to say to it. And it has gone on ever since."

"Yes, it has gone on ever since."

"And when I was leaving Cambridge he required that I should not go into a profession."

"Not exactly that, Harry."

"It was so that I understood it. He did not wish his heir to be burdened with a profession.
He said so to me himself."

"Yes, just when he was in his pride because you had got your fellowship. But there was a contract
understood, if not made."

"What contract?" asked Harry, with an air of surprise.

"That you should be to him as a son."

"I never undertook it. I wouldn't have done it at the price,--or for any price. I never felt
for him the respect or the love that were due to a father. I did feel both of them, to the
full, for my own father. They are a sort of a thing which we cannot transfer."

"They may be shared, Harry," said the rector, who was flattered.

"No, sir; in this instance that was not possible."

"You might have sat by while he read a sermon to his sister and nieces. You understood his
vanity, and you wounded it, knowing what you were doing. I don't mean to blame you, but it
was a misfortune. Now we must look it in the face and see what must be done. Your mother has
told you that he has written to me. There is his letter. You will see that he writes with a
fixed purpose." Then he handed to Harry a letter written on a large sheet of paper, the reading
of which would be so long that Harry seated himself for the operation.

The letter need not here be repeated at length. It was written with involved sentences, but
in very decided language. It said nothing of Harry's want of duty, or not attending to the
sermons, or of other deficiencies of a like nature, but based his resolution in regard to stopping
the income on his nephew's misconduct,--as it appeared to him,--in a certain particular case.
And unfortunately,--though Harry was prepared to deny that his conduct on that occasion had
been subject to censure,--he could not contradict any of the facts on which Mr. Prosper had
founded his opinion. The story was told in reference to Mountjoy Scarborough, but not the whole
story. "I understand that there was a row in the streets late at night, at the end of which
young Mr. Scarborough was left as dead under the railings." "Left for dead!" exclaimed Harry.
"Who says that he was left for dead? I did not think him to be dead."

"You had better read it to the end," said his father, and Harry read it. The letter went on
to describe how Mountjoy Scarborough was missed from his usual haunts, how search was made
by the police, how the newspapers were filled with the strange incident, and how Harry had
told nothing of what had occurred. "But beyond this," the letter went on to say, "he positively
denied, in conversation with the gentleman's brother, that he had anything to do with the gentleman
on the night in question. If this be so, he absolutely lied. A man who would lie on such an
occasion, knowing himself to have been guilty of having beaten the man in such a way as to
have probably caused his death,--for he had left him for dead under the railings in a London
street and in the midnight hour,--and would positively assert to the gentleman's brother that
he had not seen the gentleman on the night in question, when he had every reason to believe
that he had killed him,--a deed which might or might not be murder,--is not fit to be recognized
as my heir."

There were other sentences equally long and equally complicated, in all of which Mr. Prosper
strove to tell the story with tragic effect, but all of which had reference to the same transaction.
He said nothing as to the ultimate destination of the property, nor of his own proposed marriage.
Should he have a son, that son would, of course, have the property. Should there be no son,
Harry must have it, even though his conduct might have been ever so abominable. To prevent
this outrage on society, his marriage,--with its ordinary results,--would be the only step.
Of that he need say nothing. But the two hundred and fifty pounds would not be paid after the
Christmas quarter, and he must decline for the future the honor of receiving Mr. Henry Annesley
at the Hall.

Harry, when he had read it all, began to storm with anger. The man, as he truly observed, had
grossly insulted him. Mr. Prosper had called him a liar and had hinted that he was a murderer.
"You can do nothing to him," his father said. "He is your uncle, and you have eaten his bread."

"I can't call him out and fight him."

"You must let it alone."

"I can make my way into the house and see him."

"I don't think you can do that. You will find it difficult to get beyond the front-door, and
I would advise you to abandon all such ideas. What can you say to him?"

"It is false!"

"What is false? Though in essence it is false, in words it is true. You did deny that you had
seen him."

"I forget what passed. Augustus Scarborough endeavored to pump me about his brother, and I
did not choose to be pumped. As far as I can ascertain now, it is he that is the liar. He saw
his brother after the affair with me."

"Has he denied it?"

"Practically he denies it by asking me the question. He asked me with the ostensible object
of finding out what had become of his brother when he himself knew what had become of him."

"But you can't prove it. He positively says that you did deny having seen him on the night
in question, I am not speaking of Augustus Scarborough, but of your uncle. What he says is
true, and you had better leave him alone. Take other steps for driving the real truth into
his brain."

"What steps can be taken with such a fool?"

"Write your own account of the transaction, so that he shall read it. Let your mother have
it. I suppose he will see your mother."

"And so beg his favor."

"You need beg for nothing. Or if the marriage comes off--"

"You have heard of the marriage, sir?"

"Yes; I have heard of the marriage. I believe that he contemplates it. Put your statement of
what did occur, and of your motives, into the hands of the lady's friends. He will be sure
to read it."

"What good will that do?"

"No good, but that of making him ashamed of himself. You have got to read the world a little
more deeply than you have hitherto done. He thinks that he is quarrelling with you about the
affair in London, but it is in truth because you have declined to hear him read the sermons
after having taken his money."

"Then it is he that is the liar rather than I."

"I, who am a moderate man, would say that neither is a liar. You did not choose to be pumped,
as you call it, and therefore spoke as you did. According to the world's ways that was fair
enough. He, who is sore at the little respect you have paid him, takes any ground of offence
rather than that. Being sore at heart, he believes anything. This young Scarborough in some
way gets hold of him, and makes him accept this cock-and-bull story. If you had sat there punctual
all those Sunday evenings, do you think he would have believed it then?"

"And I have got to pay such a penalty as this?" The rector could only shrug his shoulders.
He was not disposed to scold his son. It was not the custom of the house that Harry should
be scolded. He was a fellow of his college and the heir to Buston, and was therefore considered
to be out of the way of scolding. But the rector felt that his son had made his bed and must
now lie on it, and Harry was aware that this was his father's feeling.

For two or three days he wandered about the country very down in the mouth. The natural state
of ovation in which the girls existed was in itself an injury to him. How could he join them
in their ovation, he who had suffered so much? It seemed to be heartless that they should smile
and rejoice when he,--the head of the family, as he had been taught to consider himself,--was
being so cruelly ill-used. For a day or two he hated Thoroughbung, though Thoroughbung was
all that was kind to him. He congratulated him with cold congratulations, and afterward kept
out of his way. "Remember, Harry, that up to Christmas you can always have one of the nags.
There's Belladonna and Orange Peel. I think you'd find the mare a little the faster, though
perhaps the horse is the bigger jumper." "Oh, thank you!" said Harry, and passed on. Now, Thoroughbung
was fond of his horses, and liked to have them talked about, and he knew that Harry Annesley
was treating him badly. But he was a good-humored fellow, and he bore it without complaint.
He did not even say a cross word to Molly. Molly, however, was not so patient. "You might be
a little more gracious when he's doing the best he can for you. It is not every one who will
lend you a horse to hunt for two months." Harry shook his head, and wandered away miserable
through the fields, and would not in these days even set his foot upon the soil of the park.
"He was not going to intrude any farther," he said to the rector. A quick glance showed him
that Ora was still on her feet, braced against the wall. The red veil was before his eyes. He grasped
the controls, and fought desperately to keep his strength and senses. A streamer of horrid whiteness
swung across his vision; slithered clammily over the glass of one of the forward ports. They
were into the thing! It was the end!

He groaned aloud as he fumbled with the mechanisms and strove to
formulate a plan of escape.***** The fleet, he knew, was just behind.

An
enormous mass. The repulsive energy astern would be terrific.

He turned it full on. The whiteness obscured his vision. Then it was gone once more. A single streamer
waved before him and encompassed them. The movement of these members must be inconceivably rapid,
else they'd be invisible at the speed the Nomad was traveling. Full speed ahead. The repulsion full
on in the direction of the center of the mass as well as astern. The framework of the Nomad
creaked protestingly from the terrific forces that tore at her vitals. Then suddenly they were
released. The Nomad was shooting off into space. The resultant of
those combined forces had done the trick.

Only the edge of that devil-fish of space, had they touched. Free-- they were free of the monster!
The red veil lifted. He rushed to Ora's side. She was kneeling at one of the floor ports, breathing
heavily but unharmed. Below them they saw the swiftly receding mass: the fleet of the Llotta diving
headlong, drawn inexorably into the rapacious embrace of the vile
creature of the heavens.

An instant the awful whiteness of the thing closed in greedily about the
many spheres of the fleet; swallowed them from sight and contorted
madly and with seeming glee over the triumph.

Then, in a burst of blinding incandescence, it was gone. The monster, the fleet-- everything--
blasted into nothingness. The fuel storage compartments of the vessels of Ganymede had exploded! The
heavens were rid of the inexplicable growing menace; the inner planets were saved from a terrible
invasion. And the Nomad was safe. Ora, Detis, Mado-- all were safe! At his side Ora was trembling. Gently
he raised her to her feet, and took her into his arms. CHAPTER X Vagabonds All Together they cared
for Detis and Mado; made them comfortable in their bunks until the
time when the effects of the gas would wear off.

Lucky it was that Rapaju had used the gas pistol rather than the
ray. Perhaps it had been a mistake.

Or perhaps
he had needed the scientific knowledge of Detis, the familiarity
with the inner planets that was Mado's. At any rate, they had no delusions
regarding his designs on Ora or his hatred of Carr.

By his own passions had the commander of the fleet been led to the
error that cost him his life and made possible the destruction of
his fleet.

  
  Carr was torn by conflicting emotions. The delectable little Europan was
most disturbing. He'd never had much use for the other sex-- on Earth.

Too dominating, most of them. And always thrown at his head by designing parents for his money. But Ora
was different! Her very nearness set his pulses racing. And he knew that she cared for him
as he did for her. Those moments in the control cabin after the explosion! But something had come
over him since he cut loose from the old life. Wanderlust-- that was it. He'd never go back. Neither
would he be content to settle down to a domestic life in Pala-dar.

Wanted to be up and going somewhere. "Oh, Carr, Carr!" Ora's voice called to him. "Mado is awake. He
wants you." Good old Mado! Why couldn't they just continue on their way as they had started
out? Roaming the universe in search of other adventures! But the silvery tinkle of Ora's laughter
reached his ears. She was irresistible! He forgot his doubts as he hurried to his friend's cabin.*****
Mado was staring at the Europan maiden with a ludicrous expression of astonishment-- gawping, Carr
called it. And Ora was laughing at him. "Your friend," she gurgled,
"doesn't believe he's alive, or that I am, or you.

Tell him we are." Carr grinned.

Mado did look funny at that. "Hello, old sock," he said, "had a bad
dream?"

"Did I? Oh boy!" Mado rocked to and fro, his head in his hands. Then he displayed sudden intense
interest. "Rapaju?" he asked. "His guards-- the fleet-- what's happened?" "Ah ha! Now you know you're
alive!" Carr laughed. "But the others are dead and gone. The fleet's
gone to smash-- and how!"

"But Carr.

How did you do it? Tell me!" Mado threw off his covers and clapped
his friend on the back, a resounding thump that brought a gasp from
Ora.

"Your Sargasso Sea did it. And it's a thing of the past, too.
Wait till I tell you about it!"***** Ora tripped from the room as
Carr sat on the edge of the bunk to spin his yarn.

"But man alive!" Mado exclaimed
when the story was finished. "Don't you know you've done a miraculous
thing?

I'd
never have had the nerve. It will not be much, but it will, I should think, be enough.

"And now you can do as you please. You may be quite sure that I shall be true to you, through
ill report and good report. Nothing that mamma can say to me will change me, and certainly
nothing from Sir Magnus.

"And now there need not be a word from you, if you mean to be true to me. Indeed, I have promised
that there shall be no word, and I expect you to keep my promise for me. If you wish to be
free of me, then you must write and say so.

"But you won't wish it, and therefore I am yours, always, always, always your own

"FLORENCE."

Harry read the letter standing up in the middle of the room, and in half a minute he had torn
off his wet coat and kicked one of his wet boots to the farther corner of the room. Then there
was a knock at the door, and his mother entered, "Tell me, Harry, what she says."

He rushed up to his mother, all damp and half-shod as he was, and seized her in his arms. "Oh,
mother, mother!"

"What is it, dear?"

"Read that, and tell me whether there ever was a finer human being!" Mrs. Annesley did read
it, and thought that her own daughter Molly was just as fine a creature. Florence was simply
doing what any girl of spirit would do. But she saw that her son was as jubilant now as he
had been downcast, and she was quite willing to partake of his comfort. "Not write a word to
her! Ha, ha! I think I see myself at it!"

"But she seems to be in earnest there."

"In earnest! And so am I in earnest. Would it be possible that a fellow should hold his hand
and not write? Yes, my girl; I think that I must write a line. I wonder what she would say
if I were not to write?"

"I think she means that you should be silent."

"She has taken a very odd way of assuming it. I am to keep her promise for her,--my darling,
my angel, my life! But I cannot do that one thing. Oh, mother, mother, if you knew how happy
I am! What the mischief does it all signify,--Uncle Prosper, Miss Thoroughbung, and the rest
of it,--with a girl like that?"

CHAPTER XXV.

HARRY AND HIS UNCLE.

Harry was kissed all round by the girls, and was congratulated warmly on the heavenly excellence
of his mistress. They could afford to be generous if he would be good-natured. "Of course you
must write to her," said Molly, when he came down-stairs with dry clothes.

"I should think so, mother."

"Only she does seem to be so much in earnest about it," said Mrs. Annesley.

"I think she would rather get just a line to say that he is in earnest too," said Fanny.

"Why should not she like a love-letter as much as any one else?" said Kate, who had her own
ideas. "Of course she has to tell him about her mamma, but what need he care for that? Of course
mamma thinks that Joshua need not write to Molly, but Molly won't mind."

"I don't think anything of the kind, miss."

"And besides, Joshua lives in the next parish," said Fanny, "and has a horse to ride over on
if he has anything to say."

"At any rate, I shall write," said Harry, "even at the risk of making her angry." And he did
write as follows:

"BUSTON, October, 188--.

"MY OWN DEAR GIRL,--It is impossible that I should not send one line in answer. Put yourself
in my place, and consult your own feelings. Think that you have a letter so full of love, so
noble, so true, so certain to fill you with joy, and then say whether you would let it pass
without a word of acknowledgment. It would be absolutely impossible. It is not very probable
that I should ask you to break your engagement, which in the midst of my troubles is the only
consolation I have. But when a man has a rock to stand upon like that, he does not want anything
else. As long as a man has the one person necessary to his happiness to believe in him, he
can put up with the ill opinion of all the others. You are to me so much that you outweigh
all the world.

"I did not choose to have my secret pumped out of me by Augustus Scarborough. I can tell you
the whole truth now. Mountjoy Scarborough had told me that he regarded you as affianced to
him, and required me to say that I would--drop you. You know now how probable that was. He
was drunk on the occasion,--had made himself purposely drunk, so as to get over all scruples,--and
attacked me with his stick. Then came a scrimmage, in which he was upset. A sober man has always
the best of it." I am afraid that Harry put in that little word sober for a purpose. The opportunity
of declaring that he was sober was too good too be lost. "I went away and left him, certainly
not dead, nor apparently much hurt. But if I told all this to Augustus Scarborough, your name
must have come out. Now I should not mind. Now I might tell the truth about you,--with great
pride, if occasion required it. But I couldn't do it then. What would the world have said to
two men fighting in the streets about a girl, neither of whom had a right to fight about her?
That was the reason why I told an untruth,--because I did not choose to fall into the trap
which Augustus Scarborough had laid for me.

"If your mother will understand it all, I do not think she will object to me on that score.
If she does quarrel with me, she will only be fighting the Scarborough game, in which I am
bound to oppose her. I am afraid the fact is that she prefers the Scarborough game,--not because
of my sins, but from auld lang syne.

"But Augustus has got hold of my Uncle Prosper, and has done me a terrible injury. My uncle
is a weak man, and has been predisposed against me from other circumstances. He thinks that
I have neglected him, and is willing to believe anything against me. He has stopped my income,--two
hundred and fifty pounds a year,--and is going to revenge himself on me by marrying a wife.
It is too absurd, and the proposed wife is aunt of the man whom my sister is going to marry.
It makes such a heap of confusion. Of course, if he becomes the father of a family I shall
be nowhere. Had I not better take to some profession? Only what shall I take to? It is almost
too late for the Bar. I must see you and talk over it all.

"You have commanded me not to write, and now there is a long letter! It is as well to be hung
for a sheep as a lamb. But when a man's character is at stake he feels that he must plead for
it. You won't be angry with me because I have not done all that you told me? It was absolutely
necessary that I should tell you that I did not mean to ask you to break your engagement, and
one word has led to all the others. There shall be only one other, which means more than all
the rest:--that I am yours, dearest, with all my heart,

"HARRY ANNESLEY."

"There," he said to himself, as he put the letter into the envelope, "she may think it too
long, but I am sure she would not have been pleased had I not written at all."

That afternoon Joshua was at the rectory, having just trotted over after business hours at
the brewery because of some special word which had to be whispered to Molly, and Harry put
himself in his way as he went out to get on his horse in the stable-yard. "Joshua," he said,
"I know that I owe you an apology."

"What for?"

"You have been awfully good to me about the horses, and I have been very ungracious."

"Not at all."

"But I have. The truth is, I have been made thoroughly miserable by circumstances, and, when
that occurs, a man cannot pick himself up all at once. It isn't my uncle that has made me wretched.
That is a kind of thing that a man has to put up with, and I think that I can bear it as well
as another. But an attack has been made upon me which has wounded me."

"I know all about it."

"I don't mind telling you, as you and Molly are going to hit it off together. There is a girl
I love, and they have tried to interfere with her."

"They haven't succeeded?"

"No, by George! And now I'm as right as a trivet. When it came across me that she might have--might
have yielded, you know,--it was as though all had been over. I ought not to have suspected her."

"But she's all right?"

"Indeed she is. I think you'll like her when you see her some day. If you don't, you have the
most extraordinary taste I ever knew a man to possess. How about the horse?"

"I have four, you know."

"What a grand thing it is to be a brewer!"

"And there are two of them will carry you. The other two are not quite up to your weight."

"You haven't been out yet?"

"Well, no;--not exactly out. The governor is the best fellow in the world, but he draws the
line at cub-hunting. He says the business should be the business till November. Upon my word,
I think he's right."

"And how many days a week after that?"

"Well, three regular. I do get an odd day with the Essex sometimes, and the governor winks."

"The governor hunts himself as often as you."

"Oh dear no; three a week does for the governor, and he is beginning to like frosty weather,
and to hear with pleasure that one of the old horses isn't as fit as he should be. He's what
they call training off. Good-bye, old fellow. Mind you come out on the 7th of November."

But Harry, though he had been made happy by the letter from Florence, had still a great many
troubles on his mind. His first trouble was the having to do something in reference to his
uncle. It did not appear to him to be proper to accept his uncle's decision in regard to his
income, without, at any rate, attempting to see Mr. Prosper. It would be as though he had taken
what was done as a matter of course,--as though his uncle could stop the income without leaving
him any ground of complaint. Of the intended marriage,--if it were intended,--he would say
nothing. His uncle had never promised him in so many words not to marry, and there would be,
he thought, something ignoble in his asking his uncle not to do that which he intended to do
himself without even consulting his uncle about it. As he turned it all over in his mind he
began to ask himself why his uncle should be asked to do anything for him, whereas he had never
done anything for his uncle. He had been told that he was the heir, not to the uncle, but to
Buston, and had gradually been taught to look upon Buston as his right,--as though he had a
certain defeasible property in the acres. He now began to perceive that there was no such thing.
A tacit contract had been made on his behalf, and he had declined to accept his share of the
contract. But he had been debarred from following any profession by his uncle's promised allowance.
He did not think that he could complain to his uncle about the proposed marriage; but he did
think that he could ask a question or two as to the income.

Without saying a word to any of his own family he walked across the park, and presented himself
at the front-door of Buston Hall. In doing so he would not go upon the grass. He had told his
father that he would not enter the park, and therefore kept himself to the road. And he had
dressed himself with some little care, as a man does when he feels that he is going forth on
some mission of importance. Had he intended to call on old Mr. Thoroughbung there would have
been no such care. And he rung at the front-door, instead of entering the house by any of the
numerous side inlets with which he was well acquainted. The butler understood the ring, and
put on his company-coat when he answered the bell.

"Is my uncle at home, Matthew?" he said.

"Mr. Prosper, Mr. Harry? Well, no; I can't say that he just is;" and the old man groaned, and
wheezed, and looked unhappy.

"He is not often out at this time." Matthew groaned again, and wheezed more deeply, and looked
unhappier. "I suppose you mean to say that he has given orders that I am not to be admitted?"
To this the butler made no answer, but only looked woefully into the young man's face. "What
is the meaning of it all, Matthew?"

"Oh, Mr. Harry, you shouldn't ask me, as is merely a servant."

Harry felt the truth of this rebuke, but was not going to put up with it.

"That's all my eye, Matthew; you know all about it as well as any one. It is so. He does not
want to see me."

"I don't think he does, Mr. Harry."

"And why not? You know the whole of my family story as well as my father does, or my uncle.
Why does he shut his doors against me, and send me word that he does not want to see me?"

"Well Mr. Harry, I'm not just able to say why he does it,--and you the heir. But if I was asked
I should make answer that it has come along of them sermons." Then Matthew looked very serious,
and bathed his head.

"I suppose so."

"That was it, Mr. Harry. We, none of us, were very fond of the sermons."

"I dare say not."

"We in the kitchen. But we was bound to have them, or we should have lost our places."

"And now I must lose my place." The butler said nothing, but his face assented. "A little hard,
isn't it, Matthew? But I wish to say a few words to my uncle,--not to express any regret about
the sermons, but to ask what it is that he intends to do." Here Matthew shook his head very
slowly. "He has given positive orders that I shall not be admitted?"

"It must be over my dead body, Mr. Harry," and he stood in the way with the door in his hand,
as though intending to sacrifice himself should he be called upon to do so by the nature of
the circumstances. Harry, however, did not put him to the test; but bidding him good-bye with
some little joke as to his fidelity, made his way back to the parsonage.

That night before he went to bed he wrote a letter to his uncle, as to which he said not a
word to either his father, or mother, or sisters. He thought that the letter was a good letter,
and would have been proud to show it; but he feared that either his father or mother would
advise him not to send it, and he was ashamed to read it to Molly. He therefore sent the letter
across the park the next morning by the gardener.

The letter was as follows:

"MY DEAR UNCLE,--My father has shown me your letter to him, and, of course, I feel it incumbent
on me to take some notice of it. Not wishing to trouble you with a letter I called this morning,
but I was told by Matthew that you would not see me. As you have expressed yourself to my father
very severely as to my conduct, I am sure you will agree with me that I ought not to let the
matter pass by without making my own defence.

"You say that there was a row in the streets between Mountjoy Scarborough and myself in which
he was 'left for dead.' When I left him I did not think he had been much hurt, nor have I had
reason to think so since. He had attacked me, and I had simply defended myself. He had come
upon me by surprise; and, when I had shaken him off, I went away. Then in a day or two he had
disappeared. Had he been killed, or much hurt, the world would have heard of it: but the world
simply heard that he had disappeared, which could hardly have been the case had he been much hurt.

"Then you say that I denied, in conversation with Augustus Scarborough, that I had seen his
brother on the night in question. I did deny it. Augustus Scarborough, who was evidently well
acquainted with the whole transaction, and who had, I believe, assisted his brother in disappearing,
wished to learn from me what I had done, and to hide what he had done. He wished to saddle
me with the disgrace of his brother's departure, and I did not choose to fall into his trap.
At the moment of his asking me he knew that his brother was safe. I think that the word 'lie,'
as used by you, is very severe for such an occurrence. A man is not generally held to be bound
to tell everything respecting himself to the first person that shall ask him. If you will ask
any man who knows the world,--my father, for instance,--I think you will be told that such
conduct was not faulty.

"But it is at any rate necessary that I should ask you what you intend to do in reference to
my future life. I am told that you intend to stop the income which I have hitherto received.
Will this be considerate on your part?" (In his first copy of the letter Harry had asked whether
it would be "fair," and had then changed the word for one that was milder.) "When I took my
degree you yourself said that it would not be necessary that I should go into any profession,
because you would allow me an income, and would then provide for me, I took your advice in
opposition to my father's, because it seemed then that I was to depend on you rather than on
him. You cannot deny that I shall have been treated hardly if I now be turned loose upon the world.

"I shall be happy to come and see you if you shall wish it, so as to save you the trouble of
writing to me.

"Your affectionate nephew,

"HENRY ANNESLEY."

Harry might have been sure that his uncle would not see him,--probably was sure when he added
the last paragraph. Mr. Prosper enjoyed greatly two things,--the mysticism of being invisible
and the opportunity of writing a letter. Mr. Prosper had not a large correspondence, but it
was laborious, and, as he thought, effective. He believed that he did know how to write a letter,
and he went about it with a will. It was not probable that he would make himself common by
seeing his nephew on such an occasion, or that he would omit the opportunity of spending an
entire morning with pen and ink. The result was very short, but, to his idea, it was satisfactory.

"SIR," he began. He considered this matter very deeply; but as the entire future of his own
life was concerned in it he felt that it became him to be both grave and severe.

"I have received your letter and have read it with attention. I observe that you admit that
you told Mr. Augustus Scarborough a deliberate untruth. This is what the plain-speaking world,
when it wishes to be understood as using the unadorned English language, which is always the
language which I prefer myself, calls a lie--A LIE! I do not choose that this humble property
shall fall at my death into the hands of A LIAR. Therefore I shall take steps to prevent it,--which
may or may not be successful.

"As such steps, whatever may be their result, are to be taken, the income,--intended to prepare
you for another alternative, which may possibly not now be forth-coming,--will naturally now
be no longer allowed.--I am, sir, your obedient servant, PETER PROSPER."

The first effect of the letter was to produce laughter at the rectory. Harry could not but
show it to his father, and in an hour or two it became known to his mother and sister, and,
under an oath of secrecy, to Joshua Thoroughbung. It could not be matter of laughter when the
future hopes of Miss Matilda Thoroughbung were taken into consideration. "I declare I don't
know what you are all laughing about," said Kate, "except that Uncle Peter does use such comical
phrases." But Mrs. Annesley, though the most good-hearted woman in the world, was almost angry.
"I don't know what you all see to laugh at in it. Peter has in his hands the power of making
or marring Harry's future."

"But he hasn't," said Harry.

"Or he mayn't have," said the rector.

"It's all in the hands of the Almighty," said Mrs. Annesley, who felt herself bound to retire
from the room and to take her daughter with her.

But, when they were alone, both the father and his son were very angry. "I have done with him
forever," said Harry. "Let come what may, I will never see him or speak to him again. A 'lie,'
and 'liar!' He has written those words in that way so as to salve his own conscience for the
injustice he is doing. He knows that I am not a liar. He cannot understand what a liar means,
or he would know that he is one himself."

"A man seldom has such knowledge as that."

"Is it not so when he stigmatizes me in this way merely as an excuse to himself? He wants to
be rid of me,--probably because I did not sit and hear him read the sermons. Let that pass.
I may have been wrong in that, and he may be justified; but because of that he cannot believe
really that I have been a liar,--a liar in such a determined way as to make me unfit to be
his heir."

"He is a fool, Harry! That is the worst of him."

"I don't think it is the worst."

"You cannot have worse. It is dreadful to have to depend on a fool,--to have to trust to a
man who cannot tell wrong from right. Your uncle intends to be a good man. If it were brought
home to him that he were doing a wrong he would not do it. He would not rob; he would not steal;
he must not commit murder, and the rest of it. But he is a fool, and he does not know when
he is doing these things."

"I will wash my hands of him."

"Yes; and he will wash his hands of you. You do not know him as I do. He has taken it into
his silly head that you are the chief of sinners because you said what was not true to that
man, who seems really to be the sinner, and nothing will eradicate the idea. He will go and
marry that woman because he thinks that in that way he can best carry his purpose, and then
he will repent at leisure. I used to tell you that you had better listen to the sermons."

"And now I must pay for it!"

"Well, my boy, it is no good crying for spilt milk. As I was saying just now, there is nothing
worse than a fool."

CHAPTER XXVI.

MARMADUKE LODGE.

On the 7th of next month two things occurred, each of great importance. Hunting commenced in
the Puckeridge country, and Harry with that famous mare Belladonna was there. And Squire Prosper
was driven in his carriage into Buntingford, and made his offer with all due formality to Miss
Thoroughbung. The whole household, including Matthew, and the cook, and the coachman, and the
boy, and the two house-maids, knew what he was going to do. It would be difficult to say how
they knew, because he was a man who never told anything. He was the last man in England who,
on such a matter, would have made a confidant of his butler. He never spoke to a servant about
matters unconnected with their service. He considered that to do so would be altogether against
his dignity. Nevertheless when he ordered his carriage, which he did not do very frequently
at this time of the year, when the horses were wanted on the farm,--and of which he gave twenty-four
hours' notice to all the persons concerned,--and when early in the morning he ordered that
his Sunday suit should be prepared for wearing, and when his aspect grew more and more serious
as the hour drew nigh, it was well understood by them all that he was going to make the offer
that day.

He was both proud and fearful as to the thing to be done,--proud that he, the Squire of Buston,
should be called on to take so important a step; proud by anticipation of his feelings as he
would return home a jolly thriving wooer,--and yet a little fearful lest he might not succeed.
Were he to fail the failure would be horrible to him. He knew that every man and woman about
the place would know all about it. Among the secrets of the family there was a story, never
now mentioned, of his having done the same thing, once before. He was then a young man, about
twenty-five, and he had come forth to lay himself and Buston at the feet of a baronet's daughter
who lived some twenty-five miles off. She was very beautiful, and was said to have a fitting
dower, but he had come back, and had shut himself up in the house for a week afterward. To
no human ears had he ever since spoken of his interview with Miss Courteney. The doings of
that day had been wrapped in impenetrable darkness. But all Buston and the neighboring parishes
had known that Miss Courteney had refused him. Since that day he had never gone forth again
on such a mission.

There were those who said of him that his love had been so deep and enduring that he had never
got the better of it. Miss Courteney had been married to a much grander lover, and had been
taken off to splendid circles. But he had never mentioned her name. That story of his abiding
love was throughly believed by his sister, who used to tell it of him to his credit when at
the rectory the rector would declare him to be a fool. But the rector used to say that he was
dumb from pride, or that he could not bear to have it known that he had failed at anything.
At any rate, he had never again attempted love, and had formally declared to his sister that,
as he did not intend to marry, Harry should be regarded as his son. Then at last had come the
fellowship, and he had been proud of his heir, thinking that in some way he had won the fellowship
himself, as he had paid the bills. But now all was altered, and he was to go forth to his wooing
again.

There had been a rumor about the country that he was already accepted; but such was not the
case. He had fluttered about Buntingford, thinking of it: but he had never put the question.
To his thinking it would not have been becoming to do so without some ceremony. Buston was
not to be made away during the turnings of a quadrille or as a part of an ordinary conversation.
It was not probable,--nay, it was impossible,--that he should mention the subject to any one;
but still he must visibly prepare for it, and I think that he was aware that the world around
him knew what he was about.

And the Thoroughbung's knew, and Miss Matilda Thoroughbung knew well. All Buntingford knew.
In those old days in which he had sought the hand of the baronet's daughter, the baronet's
daughter, and the baronet's wife, and the baronet himself, had known what was coming, though
Mr. Prosper thought that the secret dwelt alone in his own bosom. Nor did he dream now that
Harry and Harry's father, and Harry's mother and sisters, had all laughed at the conspicuous
gravity of his threat. It was the general feeling on the subject which made the rumor current
that the deed had been done. But when he came down-stairs with one new gray kid-glove on, and
the other dangling in his hand, nothing had been done.

"Drive to Buntingford," said the squire.

"Yes, sir," said Matthew, the door of the carriage in his hand.

"To Marmaduke Lodge."

"Yes, sir." Then Matthew told the coachman, who had heard the instructions very plainly, and
knew them before he had heard them. The squire threw himself back in the carriage, and applied
himself to wondering how he should do the deed. He had, in truth, barely studied the words,--but
not, finally, the manner of delivering them. With his bare hand up to his eyes so that he might
hold the glove unsoiled in the other, he devoted his intellect to the task; nor did he withdraw
his hand till the carriage turned in at the gate. The drive up to the door of Marmaduke Lodge
was very short, and he had barely time to arrange his waistcoat and his whiskers before the
carriage stood still. He was soon told that Miss Thoroughbung was at home, and within a moment
he found himself absolutely standing on the carpet in her presence.

Report had dealt unkindly with Miss Thoroughbung in the matter of her age. Report always does
deal unkindly with unmarried young women who have ceased to be girls. There is an idea that
they will wish to make themselves out to be younger than they are, and therefore report always
makes them older. She had been called forty-five, and even fifty. Her exact age at this moment
was forty-two, and as Mr. Prosper was only fifty there was no discrepancy in the marriage.
He would have been young-looking for his age, but for an air of ancient dandyism which had
grown upon him. He was somewhat dry, too, and skinny, with high cheekbones and large dull eyes.
But he was clean, and grave, and orderly,--a man promising well to a lady on the lookout for
a husband. Miss Thoroughbung was fat, fair, and forty to the letter, and she had a just measure
of her own good looks, of which she was not unconscious. But she was specially conscious of
twenty-five thousand pounds, the possession of which had hitherto stood in the way of her search
after a husband. It was said commonly about Buntingford that she looked too high, seeing that
she was only a Thoroughbung and had no more than twenty-five thousand pounds.

But Miss Tickle was in the room, and might have been said to be in the way, were it not that
a little temporary relief was felt by Mr. Prosper to be a comfort. Miss Tickle was at any rate
twenty years older than Miss Thoroughbung, and was of all slaves at the same time the humblest
and the most irritating. She never asked for anything, but was always painting the picture
of her own deserts. "I hope I have the pleasure of seeing Miss Tickle quite well," said the
squire, as soon as he had paid his first compliments to the lady of his love.

"Thank you, Mr. Prosper, pretty well. My anxiety is all for Matilda." Matilda had been Matilda
to her since she had been a little girl, and Miss Tickle was not going now to drop the advantage
which the old intimacy gave her.

"I trust there is no cause for it."

"Well, I'm not so sure. She coughed a little last night, and would not eat her supper. We always
do have a little supper. A despatched crab it was; and when she would not eat it I knew there
was something wrong."

"Nonsense! what a fuss you make. Well, Mr. Prosper, have you seen your nephew yet?"

"No, Miss Thoroughbung; nor do I intend to see him. The young man has disgraced himself."

"Dear, dear; how sad!"

"Young men do disgrace themselves, I fear, very often," said Miss Tickle.

"We won't talk about it, if you please, because it is a family affair."

"Oh no," said Miss Thoroughbung.

"At least, not as yet. It may be;--but never mind, I would not wish to be premature in anything."

"I am always telling Matilda so. She is so impulsive. But as you may have matters of business,
Mr. Prosper, on which to speak to Miss Thoroughbung, I will retire."

"It is very thoughtful on your part, Miss Tickle."

Then Miss Tickle retired; from which it may be surmised that the probable circumstances of
the interview had been already discussed between the ladies. Mr. Prosper drew a long breath,
and sighed audibly, as soon as he was alone with the object of his affections. He wondered
whether men were ever bright and jolly in such circumstances. He sighed again, and then he
began: "Miss Thoroughbung!"

"Mr. Prosper!"

All the prepared words had flown from his memory. He could not even bethink himself how he
ought to begin. And, unfortunately, so much must depend upon manner! But the property was unembarrassed,
and Miss Thoroughbung thought it probable that she might be allowed to do what she would with
her own money. She had turned it all over to the right and to the left, and she was quite minded
to accept him. With this view she had told Miss Tickle to leave the room, and she now felt
that she was bound to give the gentleman what help might be in her power. "Oh, Miss Thoroughbung!"
he said.

"Mr. Prosper, you and I are such good friends, that--that--that--"

"Yes, indeed. You can have no more true friend than I am,--not even Miss Tickle."

"Oh, bother Miss Tickle! Miss Tickle is very well."

"Exactly so. Miss Tickle is very well; a most estimable person."

"We'll leave her alone just at present."

"Yes, certainly. We had better leave her alone in our present conversation. Not but what I
have a strong regard for her." Mr. Prosper had surely not thought of the opening he might be
giving as to a future career for Miss Tickle by such an assertion.

"So have I, for the matter of that, but we'll drop her just now." Then she paused, but he paused
also. "You have come over to Buntingford to-day probably in order that you might congratulate
them at the brewery on the marriage with one of your family." Then Mr. Prosper frowned, but
she did not care for his frowning. "It will not be a bad match for the young lady, as Joshua
is fairly steady, and the brewery is worth money."

"I could have wished him a better brother-in-law," said the lover, who was taken away from
the consideration of his love by the allusion to the Annesleys. He had thought of all that,
and in the dearth of fitting objects of affection had resolved to endure the drawback of the
connection. But it had for a while weighed very seriously with him, so that had the twenty-five
thousand pounds been twenty thousand pounds, he might have taken himself to Miss Puffle, who
lived near Saffron Walden and who would own Snickham Manor when her father died. The property
was said to be involved, and Miss Puffle was certainly forty-eight. As an heir was the great
desideratum, he had resolved that Matilda Thoroughbung should be the lady, in spite of the
evils attending the new connection. He did feel that in throwing over Harry he would have to
abandon all the Annesleys, and to draw a line between himself with Miss Thoroughbung and the
whole family of the Thoroughbungs generally.

"You mustn't be too bitter against poor Molly," said Miss Thoroughbung.

Mr. Prosper did not like to be called bitter, and, in spite of the importance of the occasion,
could not but show that he did not like it. "I don't think that we need talk about it."

"Oh dear no. Kate and Miss Tickle need neither of them be talked about." Mr. Prosper disliked
all familiarity, and especially that of being laughed at, but Miss Thoroughbung did laugh.
So he drew himself up, and dangled his glove more slowly than before. "Then you were not going
on to congratulate them at the brewery?"

"Certainly not."

"I did not know."

"My purpose carries me no farther than Marmaduke Lodge. I have no desire to see any one to-day
besides Miss Thoroughbung."

"That is a compliment."

Then his memory suddenly brought back to him one of his composed sentences. "In beholding Miss
Thoroughbung I behold her on whom I hope I may depend for all the future happiness of my life."
He did feel that it had come in the right place. It had been intended to be said immediately
after her acceptance of him. But it did very well where it was. It expressed, as he assured
himself, the feelings of his heart, and must draw from her some declaration of hers.

"Goodness gracious me, Mr. Prosper!"

This sort of coyness was to have been expected, and he therefore continued with another portion
of his prepared words, which now came glibly enough to him. But it was a previous portion.
It was all the same to Miss Thoroughbung, as it declared plainly the gentleman's intention.
"If I can induce you to listen to me favorably, I shall say of myself that I am the happiest
gentleman in Hertfordshire."

"Oh, Mr. Prosper!"

"My purpose is to lay at your feet my hand, my heart, and the lands of Buston." Here he was
again going backward, but it did not much matter now in what sequence the words were said.
The offer had been thoroughly completed and was thoroughly understood.

"A lady, Mr. Prosper, has to think of these things," said Miss Thoroughbung.

"Of course I would not wish to hurry you prematurely to any declaration of your affections."

"But there are other considerations, Mr. Prosper. You know about my property?"

"Nothing particularly. It has not been a matter of consideration with me." This he said with
some slight air of offence. He was a gentleman, whereas Miss Thoroughbung was hardly a lady.
Matter of consideration her money of course had been. How should he not consider it? But he
was aware that he ought not to rush on that subject, but should leave it to the arrangement
of lawyers, expressing his own views through her own lawyer. To her it was the thing of most
importance, and she had no feelings which induced her to be silent on a matter so near to her.
She rushed.

"But it has to be considered, Mr. Prosper. It is all my own, and comes to very nearly one thousand
a year. I think it is nine hundred and seventy-two pounds six shillings and eightpence. Of
course, when there is so much money it would have to be tied up somehow." Mr. Prosper was undoubtedly
disgusted, and if he could have receded at this moment would have transferred his affections
to Miss Puffle. "Of course you understand that."

She had not accepted him as yet, nor said a word of her regard for him. All that went, it seemed,
as a matter of no importance whatever. He had been standing for the last few minutes, and now
he remained standing and looking at her. They were both silent, so that he was obliged to speak.
"I understand that between a lady and gentleman so circumstanced there should be a settlement."

"Just so."

"I also have some property," said Mr. Prosper, with a touch of pride in his tone.

"Of course you have. Goodness gracious me! Why else would you come? You have got Buston, which
I suppose is two thousand a year. At any rate it has that name. But it isn't your own."

"Not my own?"

"Well, no. You couldn't leave it to your widow, so that she might give it to any one she pleased
when you were gone." Here the gentleman frowned very darkly, and thought that after all Miss
Puffle would be the woman for him. "All that has to be considered, and it makes Buston not
exactly your own. If I were to have a daughter she wouldn't have it."

"No, not a daughter," said Mr. Prosper, still wondering at the thorough knowledge of the business
in hand displayed by the lady.

"Oh, if it were to be a son, that would be all right, and then my money would go to the younger
children, divided equally between the boys and girls." Mr. Prosper shook his head as he found
himself suddenly provided with so plentiful and thriving a family. "That, I suppose, would
be the way of the settlement, together with a certain income out of Buston set apart for my
use. It ought to be considered that I should have to provide a house to live in. This belongs
to my brother, and I pay him forty pounds a year for it. It should be something better than this."

"My dear Miss Thoroughbung, the lawyer would do all that." There did come upon him an idea
that she, with her aptitude for business, would not be altogether a bad helpmate.

"The lawyers are very well; but in a transaction of this kind there is nothing like the principals
understanding each other. Young women are always robbed when their money is left altogether
to the gentlemen."

"Robbed!"

"Don't suppose I mean you, Mr. Prosper; and the robbery I mean is not considered disgraceful
at all. The gentlemen I mean are the fathers and the brothers, and the uncles and the lawyers.
And they intend to do right after the custom of their fathers and uncles. But woman's rights
are coming up."

"I hate woman's rights."

"Nevertheless they are coming up. A young woman doesn't get taken in as she used to do. I don't
mean any offence, you know." This was said in reply to Mr. Prosper's repeated frown. "Since
woman's rights have come up a young woman is better able to fight her own battle."

Mr. Prosper was willing to admit that Miss Thoroughbung was fair, but she was fat also, and
at least forty. There was hardly need that she should refer so often to her own unprotected
youth. "I should like to have the spending of my own income, Mr. Prosper;--that's a fact."

"Oh, indeed!"

"Yes, I should. I shouldn't care to have to go to my husband if I wanted to buy a pair of stockings."

"An allowance, I should say."

"And that should be my own income."

"Nothing to go to the house?"

"Oh yes. There might be certain things which I might agree to pay for. A pair of ponies I should
like."

"I always keep a carriage and a pair of horses."

"But the ponies would be my lookout. I shouldn't mind paying for my own maid, and the champagne,
and my clothes, of course, and the fish-monger's bill. There would be Miss Tickle, too. You
said you would like Miss Tickle. I should have to pay for her. That would be about enough,
I think."

Mr. Prosper was thoroughly disgusted; but when he left Marmaduke Lodge he had not said a word
as to withdrawing from his offer. She declared that she would put her terms into writing and
give them to her lawyer, who would communicate with Mr. Grey.

Mr. Prosper was surprised to find that she knew the name of his lawyer, who was in truth our
old friend. And then, while he was still hesitating, she astounded,--nay, shocked him by her
mode of ending the conference. She got up and, throwing her arms round his neck, kissed him
most affectionately. After that there was no retreating for Mr. Prosper,--no immediate mode
of retreat, at all events. He could only back out of the room, and get into his carriage, and
be carried home as quickly as possible.

CHAPTER XXVII.

THE PROPOSAL.

It had never happened to him before. The first thought that came upon Mr. Prosper, when he
got into his carriage, was that it had never occurred to him before. He did not reflect that
he had not put himself in the way of it: but now the strangeness of the sensation overwhelmed
him. He inquired of himself whether it was pleasant, but he found himself compelled to answer
the question with a negative. It should have come from him, but not yet; not yet, probably,
for some weeks. But it had been done, and by the doing of it she had sealed him utterly as
her own. There was no getting out of it now. He did feel that he ought not to attempt to get
out of it after what had taken place. He was not sure but that the lady had planned it all
with that purpose; but he was sure that a strong foundation had been laid for a breach of promise
case if he were to attempt to escape. What might not a jury do against him, giving damages
out of the acres of Buston Hall? And then Miss Thoroughbung would go over to the other Thoroughbungs
and to the Annesleys, and his condition would become intolerable. In some moments, as he was
driven home, he was not sure but that it had all been got up as a plot against him by the Annesleys.

When he got out of his carriage Matthew knew that things had gone badly with his master; but
he could not conjecture in what way. The matter had been fully debated in the kitchen, and
it had been there decided that Miss Thoroughbung was certainly to be brought home as the future
mistress of Buston. The step to be taken by their master was not popular in the Buston kitchen.
It had been there considered that Master Harry was to be the future master, and, by some perversity
of intellect, they had all thought that this would occur soon. Matthew was much older than
the squire, who was hardly to be called a sickly man, and yet Matthew had made up his mind
that Mr. Harry was to reign over him as Squire of Buston. When, therefore, the tidings came
that Miss Thoroughbung was to brought to Buston as the mistress, there had been some slight
symptoms of rebellion. "They didn't want any 'Tilda Thoroughbung there." They had their own
idea of a lady and a gentleman, which, as in all such cases, was perfectly correct. They knew
the squire to be a fool, but they believed him to be a gentleman. They heard that Miss Thoroughbung
was a clever woman, but they did not believe her to be a lady. Matthew had said a few words
to the cook as to a public-house at Stevenage. She had told him not to be an old fool, and
that he would lose his money, but she had thought of the public-house. There had been a mutinous
feeling. Matthew helped his master out of the carriage, and then came a revulsion. That "froth
of a beer-barrel," as Matthew had dared to call her, had absolutely refused his master.

Mr. Prosper went into the house very meditative, and sad at heart. It was a matter almost of
regret to him that it had not been as Matthew supposed. But he was caught and bound, and must
make the best of it. He thought of all the particulars of her proposed mode of living, and
recapitulated them to himself. A pair of ponies, her own maid, champagne, the fish-monger's
bill, and Miss Tickle. Miss Puffle would certainly not have required such expensive luxuries.
Champagne and the fish would require company for their final consumption.

The ponies assumed a tone of being quite opposed to that which he had contemplated. He questioned
with himself whether he would like Miss Tickle as a perpetual inmate. He had, in sheer civility,
expressed a liking for Miss Tickle, but what need could there be to a married woman of a Miss
Tickle? And then he thought of the education of the five or six children which she had almost
promised him! He had suggested to himself simply an heir,--just one heir,--so that the nefarious
Harry might be cut out. He already saw that he would not be enriched to the extent of a shilling
by the lady's income. Then there would be all the trouble and the disgrace of a separate purse.
He felt that there would be disgrace in having the fish and champagne, which were consumed
in his own house,--paid for by his wife without reference to him. What if the lady had a partiality
for champagne? He knew nothing about it, and would know nothing about it, except when he saw
it in her heightened color. Despatched crabs for supper! He always went to bed at ten, and
had a tumbler of barley-water brought to him,--a glass of barley-water with just a squeeze
of lemon-juice.

He saw ruin before him. No doubt she was a good manager, but she would be a good manager for
herself. Would it not be better for him to stand the action for breach of promise, and betake
himself to Miss Puffle? But Miss Puffle was fifty, and there could be no doubt that the lady
ought to be younger than the gentleman. He was much distressed in mind. If he broke off with
Miss Thoroughbung, ought he to do so at once, before she had had time to put the matter into
the hands of the lawyer? And on what plea should he do it? Before he went to bed that night
he did draw out a portion of a letter, which, however, was never sent:

"MY DEAR MISS THOROUGHBUNG,--In the views which we both promulgated this morning I fear that
there was some essential misunderstanding as to the mode of life which had occurred to both
of us. You, as was so natural at your age, and with your charms, have not been slow to anticipate
a coming period of uncheckered delights. Your allusion to a pony-carriage, and other incidental
allusions,"--he did not think it well to mention more particularly the fish and the champagne,--"have
made clear the sort of future life which you have pictured to yourself. Heaven forbid that
I should take upon myself to find fault with anything so pleasant and so innocent! But my prospects
of life are different, and in seeking the honor of an alliance with you I was looking for a
quiet companion in my declining years, and it might be also to a mother to a possible future
son. When you honored me with an unmistakable sign of your affection, on my going, I was just
about to explain all this. You must excuse me if my mouth was then stopped by the mutual ardor
of our feeling. I was about to say--" But he had found it difficult to explain what he had
been about to say, and on the next morning, when the time for writing had come, he heard news
which detained him for the day, and then the opportunity was gone.

On the following morning, when Matthew appeared at his bedside with his cup of tea at nine
o'clock, tidings were brought him. He took in the Buntingford Gazette, which came twice a week,
and as Matthew laid it, opened and unread, in its accustomed place, he gave the information,
which he had no doubt gotten from the paper. "You haven't heard it, sir, I suppose, as yet?"

"Heard what?"

"About Miss Puffle."

"What about Miss Puffle? I haven't heard a word. What about Miss Puffle?" He had been thinking
that moment of Miss Puffle,--of how she would be superior to Miss Thoroughbung in many ways,--so
that he sat up in his bed, holding the untasted tea in his hand.

"She's gone off with young Farmer Tazlehurst."

"Miss Puffle gone off, and with her father's tenant's son!"

"Yes indeed, sir. She and her father have been quarrelling for the last ten years, and now
she's off. She was always riding and roistering about the country with them dogs and them men;
and now she's gone."

"Oh heavens!" exclaimed the squire, thinking of his own escape.

"Yes, indeed, sir. There's no knowing what any one of them is up to. Unless they gets married
afore they're thirty, or thirty-five at most, they're most sure to get such ideas into their
head as no one can mostly approve." This had been intended by Matthew as a word of caution
to his master, but had really the opposite effect. He resolved at the moment that the latter
should not be said of Miss Thoroughbung.

And he turned Matthew out of the room with a flea in his ear. "How dare you speak in that way
of your betters? Mr. Puffle, the lady's father, has for many years been my friend. I am not
saying anything of the lady, nor saying that she has done right. Of course, down-stairs, in
the servants' hall, you can say what you please; but up here, in my presence, you should not
speak in such language of a lady behind whose chair you may be called upon to wait."

"Very well, sir; I won't no more," said Matthew, retiring with mock humility. But he had shot
his bolt, and he supposed successfully. He did not know what had taken place between his master
and Miss Thoroughbung; but he did think that his speech might assist in preventing a repetition
of the offer.

Miss Puffle gone off with the tenant's son! The news made matrimony doubly dangerous to him,
and yet robbed him of the chief reason by which he was to have been driven to send her a letter.
He could not, at any rate, now fall back upon Miss Puffle. And he thought that nothing would
have induced Miss Thoroughbung to go off with one of the carters from the brewery. Whatever
faults she might have, they did not lie in that direction. Champagne and ponies were, as faults,
less deleterious.

Miss Puffle gone off with young Tazlehurst,--a lady of fifty, with a young man of twenty-five!
and she the reputed heiress of Snickham Manor! It was a comfort to him as he remembered that
Snickham Manor had been bought no longer ago than by the father of the present owner. The Prospers
been at Buston ever since the time of George the First. You cannot make a silk purse out of
a sow's ear. He had been ever assuring himself of that fact, which was now more of a fact than
ever. And fifty years old! It was quite shocking. With a steady middle-aged man like himself,
and with the approval of her family, marriage might have been thought of. But this harum-scarum
young tenant's son, who was in no respect a gentleman, whose only thought was of galloping
over hedges and ditches, such an idea showed a state of mind which--well, absolutely disgusted
him. Mr. Prosper, because he had grown old himself, could not endure to think that others,
at his age, should retain a smack of their youth. There are ladies besides Miss Puffle who
like to ride across the country with a young man before them, or perhaps following, and never
think much of their fifty years.

But the news certainly brought to him a great change of feelings, so that the letter to which
he had devoted the preceding afternoon was put back into the letter-case, and was never finished.
And his mind immediately recurred to Miss Thoroughbung, and he bethought himself that the objection
which he felt was, perhaps, in part frivolous. At any rate, she was a better woman than Miss
Puffle. She certainly would run after no farmer's son. Though she she might be fond of champagne,
it was, he thought, chiefly for other people. Though she was ambitious of ponies, the ambition
might be checked. At any rate, she could pay for her own ponies, whereas Mr. Puffle was a very
hale old man of seventy. Puffle, he told himself, had married young, and might live for the
next ten years, or twenty. To Mr. Prosper, whose imagination did not fly far afield, the world
afforded at present but two ladies. These were Miss Puffle and Miss Thoroughbung, and as Miss
Puffle had fallen out of the running, there seemed to be a walk-over for Miss Thoroughbung.

He did think, during the two or three days which passed without any farther step on his part,--he
did think how it might be were he to remain unmarried. As regarded his own comfort, he was
greatly tempted. Life would remain so easy to him! But then duty demanded of him that he should
marry, and he was a man who, in honest, sober talk, thought much of his duty. He was absurdly
credulous, and as obstinate as a mule. But he did wish to do what was right. He had been convinced
that Harry Annesley was a false knave, and had been made to swear an oath that Harry should
not be his heir. Harry had been draped in the blackest colors, and to each daub of black something
darker had been added by his uncle's memory of those neglected sermons. It was now his first
duty in life to beget an heir, and for that purpose a wife must be had.

Putting aside the ponies and the champagne,--and the despatched crab, the sound of which, as
coming to him from Miss Tickle's mouth, was uglier than the other sounds,--he still thought
that Miss Thoroughbung would answer his purpose. From her side there would not be making of
a silk purse; but then "the boy" would be his boy as well as hers, and would probably take
more after the father. He passed much of these days with the "Peerage" in his hand, and satisfied
himself that the best blood had been maintained frequently by second-rate marriages. Health
was a great thing. Health in the mother was everything. Who could be more healthy than Miss
Thoroughbung? Then he thought of that warm embrace. Perhaps, after all, it was right that she
should embrace him after what he had said to her.

Three days only had passed by, and he was still thinking what ought to be his next step, when
there came to him a letter from Messrs. Soames & Simpson, attorneys in Buntingford. He had
heard of Messrs. Soames & Simpson, had been familiar with their names for the last twenty years,
but had never dreamed that his own private affairs should become a matter of consultation in
their office. Messrs. Grey & Barry, of Lincoln's Inn, were his lawyers, who were quite gentlemen.
He knew nothing against Messrs. Soames & Simpson, but he thought that their work consisted
generally in the recovery of local debts. Messrs. Soames & Simpson now wrote to him with full
details as to his future life. Their client Miss Thoroughbung, had communicated to them his
offer of marriage. They were acquainted with all the lady's circumstances, and she had asked
them for their advice. They had proposed to her that the use of her own income should be by
deed left to herself. Some proportion of it should go into the house, and might be made matter
of agreement. They suggested that an annuity of a thousand pounds a year, in shape of dower,
should be secured to their client in the event of her outliving Mr. Prosper. The estate should,
of course, be settled on the eldest child. The mother's property should be equally divided
among the other children. Buston Hall should be the residence of the widow till the eldest
son should be twenty-four, after which Mr. Prosper would no doubt feel that their client would
have to provide a home for herself. Messrs. Soames & Simpson did not think that there was anything
in this to which Mr. Prosper would object, and if this were so, they would immediately prepare
the settlement. "That woman didn't say against it, after all," said Matthew to himself as he
gave the letter from the lawyers to his master.

The letter made Mr. Prosper very angry. It did, in truth, contain nothing more than a repetition
of the very terms which the lady had herself suggested; but coming to him through these local
lawyers it was doubly distasteful. What was he to do? He felt it to be out of the question
to accede at once. Indeed, he had a strong repugnance to putting himself into communication
with the Buntingford lawyers. Had the matter been other than it was, he would have gone to
the rector for advice. The rector generally advised him.

But that was out of the question now. He had seen his sister once since his visit to Buntingford,
but had said nothing to her about it. Indeed, he had been anything but communicative, so that
Mrs. Annesley had been forced to leave him with a feeling almost of offense. There was no help
to be had in that quarter, and he could only write to Mr. Grey, and ask that gentleman to assist
him in his difficulties.

He did write to Mr. Grey, begging for his immediate attention. "There is that fool Prosper
going to marry a brewer's daughter down at Buntingford," said Mr. Grey to his daughter.

"He's sixty years old."

"No, my love. He looks it, but he's only fifty. A man at fifty is supposed to be young enough
to marry. There's a nephew who has been brought up as his heir; that's the hard part of it.
And the nephew is mixed up in some way with the Scarboroughs."

"Is it he who is to marry that young lady?"

"I think it is. And now there's some devil's play going on. I've got nothing to do with it."

"But you will have."

"Not a turn. Mr. Prosper can marry if he likes it. They have sent him most abominable proposals
as to the lady's money; and as to her jointure, I must stop that if I can, though I suppose
he is not such a fool as to give way."

"Is he soft?"

"Well, not exactly. He likes his own money. But he's a gentleman, and wants nothing but what
is or ought to be his own."

"There are but few like that now."

"It's true of him. But then he does not know what is his own, or what ought to be. He's almost
the biggest fool I have ever known, and will do an injustice to that boy simply from ignorance."
Then he drafted his letter to Mr. Prosper, and gave it to Dolly to read. "That's what I shall
propose. The clerk can put it into proper language. He must offer less than he means to give."

"Is that honest, father?"

"It's honest on my part, knowing the people with whom I have to deal. If I were to lay down
the strict minimum which he should grant, he would add other things which would cause him to
act not in accordance with my advice. I have to make allowance for his folly,--a sort of windage,
which is not dishonest. Had he referred her lawyers to me I could have been as hard and honest
as you please." All which did not quite satisfy Dolly's strict ideas of integrity.

But the terms proposed were that the lady's means should be divided so that one-half should
go to herself for her own personal expenses, and the other half to her husband for the use
of the house; that the lady should put up with a jointure of two hundred and fifty pounds,
which ought to suffice when joined to her own property, and that the settlement among the children
should be as recommended by Messrs. Soames & Simpson.

"And if there are not any children, papa?"

"Then each will receive his or her own property."

"Because it may be so."

"Certainly, my dear; very probably."

CHAPTER XXVIII.

MR. HARKAWAY.

When the first Monday in November came Harry was still living at the rectory. Indeed, what
other home had he in which to live? Other friends had become shy of him besides his uncle.
He had been accustomed to receive many invitations. Young men who are the heirs to properties,
and are supposed to be rich because they are idle, do get themselves asked about here and there,
and think a great deal of themselves in consequence. "There's young Jones. He is fairly good-looking,
but hasn't a word to say for himself. He will do to pair off with Miss Smith, who'll talk for
a dozen. He can't hit a hay-stack, but he's none the worse for that. We haven't got too many
pheasants. He'll be sure to come when you ask him,--and he'll be sure to go."

So Jones is asked, and considers himself to be the most popular man in London. I will not say
that Harry's invitations had been of exactly that description; but he too had considered himself
to be popular, and now greatly felt the withdrawal of such marks of friendship. He had received
one "put off"--from the Ingoldsbys of Kent. Early in June he had promised to be there in November.
The youngest Miss Ingoldsby was very pretty, and he, no doubt, had been gracious. She knew
that he had meant nothing,--could have meant nothing. But he might come to mean something,
and had been most pressingly asked. In September there came a letter to him to say that the
room intended for him at Ingoldsby had been burnt down. Mrs. Ingoldsby was so extremely sorry,
and so were the "girls!" Harry could trace it all up. The Ingoldsbys knew the Greens, and Mrs.
Green was Sister to Septimus Jones, who was absolutely the slave,--the slave, as Harry said,
repeating the word to himself with emphasis,--of Augustus Scarborough. He was very unhappy,
not that he cared in the least for any Miss Ingoldsby, but that he began to be conscious that
he was to be dropped.

He was to be taken up, on the other hand, by Joshua Thoroughbung. Alas! alas! though he smiled
and resolved to accept his brother-in-law with a good heart, this did not in the least salve
the wound. His own county was to him less than other counties, and his own neighborhood less
than other neighborhoods. Buntingford was full of Thoroughbungs, the best people in the world,
but not quite up to what he believed to be his mark. Mr. Prosper himself was the stupidest
ass! At Welwyn people smelled of the City. At Stevenage the parsons' set began. Baldock was
a caput mortuum of dulness. Royston was alive only on market-days. Of his own father's house,
and even of his mother and sisters, he entertained ideas that savored a little of depreciation.
But, to redeem him from this fault,--a fault which would have led to the absolute ruin of his
character had it not been redeemed and at last cured,--there was a consciousness of his own
vanity and weakness. "My father is worth a dozen of them, and my mother and sisters two dozen,"
he would say of the Ingoldsbys when he went to bed in the room that was to be burnt down in
preparation for his exile. And he believed it. They were honest; they were unselfish; they
were unpretending. His sister Molly was not above owning that her young brewer was all the
world to her; a fine, honest, bouncing girl, who said her prayers with a meaning, thanked the
Lord for giving her Joshua, and laughed so loud that you could hear her out of the rectory
garden half across the park. Harry knew that they were good,--did in his heart know that where
the parsons begin the good things were likely to begin also.

He was in this state of mind, the hand of good pulling one way and the devil's pride the other,
when young Thoroughbung called for him one morning to carry him on to Cumberlow Green. Cumberlow
Green was a popular meet in that county, where meets have not much to make them popular except
the good-humor of those who form the hunt. It is not a county either pleasant or easy to ride
over, and a Puckeridge fox is surely the most ill-mannered of foxes. But the Puckeridge men
are gracious to strangers, and fairly so among themselves. It is more than can be said of Leicestershire,
where sportsmen ride in brilliant boots and breeches, but with their noses turned supernaturally
into the air. "Come along; we've four miles to do, and twenty minutes to do it in. Halloo,
Molly, how d'ye do? Come up on to the step and give us a kiss."

"Go away!" said Molly, rushing back into the house. "Did you ever hear anything like his impudence?"

"Why shouldn't you?" said Kate. "All the world knows it." Then the gig, with the two sportsmen,
was driven on. "Don't you think he looks handsome in his pink coat?" whispered Molly, afterward,
to her elder sister. "Only think; I have never seen him in a red coat since he was my own.
Last April, when the hunting was over, he hadn't spoken out; and this is the first day he has
worn pink this year."

Harry, when he reached the meet, looked about him to watch how he was received. There are not
many more painful things in life than when an honest, gallant young fellow has to look about
him in such a frame of mind. It might have been worse had he deserved to be dropped, some one
will say. Not at all. A different condition of mind exists then, and a struggle is made to
overcome the judgment of men which is not in itself painful. It is part of the natural battle
of life, which does not hurt one at all,--unless, indeed, the man hate himself for that which
has brought upon him the hatred of others. Repentance is always an agony,--and should be so.
Without the agony there can be no repentance. But even then it is hardly so sharp as that feeling
of injustice which accompanies the unmeaning look, and dumb faces, and pretended indifference
of those who have condemned.

When Harry descended from the gig he found himself close to old Mr. Harkaway, the master of
the hounds. Mr. Harkaway was a gentleman who had been master of these hounds for more than
forty years, and had given as much satisfaction as the county could produce. His hounds, which
were his hobby, were perfect. His horses were good enough for the Hertfordshire lanes and Hertfordshire
hedges. His object was not so much to run a fox as to kill him in obedience to certain rules
of the game. Ever so many hinderances have been created to bar the killing a fox,--as for instance
that you shouldn't knock him on the head with a brick-bat,--all of which had to Mr. Harkaway
the force of a religion. The laws of hunting are so many that most men who hunt cannot know
them all. But no law had ever been written, or had become a law by the strength of tradition,
which he did not know.

To break them was to him treason. When a young man broke them he pitied the young man's ignorance,
and endeavored to instruct him after some rough fashion. When an old man broke them, he regarded
him as a fool who should stay at home, or as a traitor who should be dealt with as such. And
with such men he could deal very hardly. Forty years of reigning had taught him to believe
himself to be omnipotent, and he was so in his own hunt. He was a man who had never much affected
social habits. The company of one or two brother sportsmen to drink a glass of port-wine with
him and then to go early to bed, was the most of it. He had a small library, but not a book
ever came off the shelf unless it referred to farriers or the res venatica. He was unmarried.
The time which other men gave to their wives and families he bestowed upon his hounds. To his
stables he never went, looking on a horse as a necessary adjunct to hunting,--expensive, disagreeable,
and prone to get you into danger. When anyone flattered him about his horse he would only grunt,
and turn his head on one side. No one in these latter years had seen him jump any fence. But
yet he was always with his hounds, and when any one said a kind word as to their doings, that
he would take as a compliment. It was they who were there to do the work of the day, which
horses and men could only look at. He was a sincere, honest, taciturn, and withal, affectionate
man, who could on an occasion be very angry with those who offended him. He knew well what
he could do, and never attempted that which was beyond his power. "How are you, Mr. Harkaway?"
said Harry.

"How are you, Mr. Annesley? how are you?" said the master, with all the grace of which he was
capable. But Harry caught a tone in his voice which he thought implied displeasure. And Mr.
Harkaway had in truth heard the story,--how Harry had been discarded at Buston because he had
knocked the man down in the streets at night-time and had then gone away. After that Mr. Harkaway
toddled off, and Harry sat and frowned with embittered heart.

"Well, Malt-and-hops, and how are you?" This came from a fast young banker who lived in the
neighborhood, and who thus intended to show his familiarity with the brewer; but when he saw
Annesley, he turned round and rode away. "Scaly trick that fellow played the other day. He
knocked a fellow down, and, when he thought that he was dead, he lied about it like old boots."
All of which made itself intelligible to Harry. He told himself that he had always hated that
banker.

"Why do you let such a fellow as that call you Malt-and-hops?" he said to Joshua.

"What,--young Florin? He's a very good fellow, and doesn't mean anything."

"A vulgar cad, I should say."

Then he rode on in silence till he was addressed by an old gentleman of the county who had
known his father for the last thirty years. The old gentleman had had nothing about him to
recommend him either to Harry's hatred or love till he spoke; and after that Harry hated him.
"How d'you do, Mr. Annesley?" said the old gentleman, and then rode on. Harry knew that the
old man had condemned him as the others had done, or he would never have called him Mr. Annesley.
He felt that he was "blown upon" in his own county, as well as by the Ingoldsbys down in Kent.

They had but a moderate day's sport, going a considerable distance in search of it, till an
incident arose which gave quite an interest to the field generally, and nearly brought Joshua
Thoroughbung into a scrape. They were drawing a covert which was undoubtedly the property of
their own hunt,--or rather just going to draw it,--when all of a sudden they became aware that
every hound in the pack was hunting. Mr. Harkaway at once sprung from his usual cold, apathetic
manner into full action. But they who knew him well could see that it was not the excitement
of joy. He was in an instant full of life, but it was not the life of successful enterprise.
He was perturbed and unhappy, and his huntsman, Dillon,--a silent, cunning, not very popular
man, who would obey his master in everything,--began to move about rapidly, and to be at his
wit's end. The younger men prepared themselves for a run,--one of those sudden, short, decisive
spurts which come at the spur of the moment, and on which a man, if he is not quite awake to
the demands of the moment, is very apt to be left behind. But the old stagers had their eyes
on Mr. Harkaway, and knew that there was something amiss.

Then there appeared another field of hunters, first one man leading them, then others following,
and after them the first ruck and then the crowd. It was apparent to all who knew anything
that two packs had joined. These were the Hitchiners, as the rival sportsmen would call them,
and this was the Hitchin Hunt, with Mr. Fairlawn, their master. Mr. Fairlawn was also an old
man, popular, no doubt, in his own country, but by no means beloved by Mr. Harkaway. Mr. Harkaway
used to declare how Fairlawn had behaved very badly about certain common coverts about thirty
years ago, when the matter had to be referred to a committee of masters. No one in these modern
days knew aught of the quarrel, or cared. The men of the two hunts were very good friends,
unless they met under the joint eyes of the two masters, and then they were supposed to be
bound to hate each other. Now the two packs were mixed together, and there was only one fox
between them.

The fox did not trouble them long. He could hardly have saved himself from one pack, but very
soon escaped from the fangs of the two. Each hound knew that his neighbor hound was a stranger,
and, in scrutinizing the singularity of the occurrence, lost all the power of hunting. In ten
minutes there were nearly forty couples of hounds running hither and thither, with two huntsmen
and four whips swearing at them with strange voices, and two old gentlemen giving orders each
in opposition to the other. Then each pack was got together, almost on the same ground, and
it was necessary that something should be done. Mr. Harkaway waited to see whether Mr. Fairlawn
would ride away quickly to his own country. He would not have spoken to Mr. Fairlawn if he
could have helped it. Mr. Fairlawn was some miles away from his country. He must have given
up the day for lost had he simply gone away. But there was another covert a mile off, and he
thought that one of his hounds had "shown a line,"--or said that he thought so.

Now, it is well known that you may follow a hunted fox through whatever country he may take
you to, if only your hounds are hunting him continuously. And one hound for that purpose is
as good as thirty, and if a hound can only "show a line" he is held to be hunting. Mr. Fairlawn
was quite sure that one of his hounds had been showing a line, and had been whipped off it
by one of Mr. Harkaway's men. The man swore that he had only been collecting his own hounds.
On this plea Mr. Fairlawn demanded to take his whole pack into Greasegate Wood,--the very covert
that Mr. Harkaway had been about to draw. "I'm d----d if you do!" said Mr. Harkaway, standing,
whip in hand, in the middle of the road, so as to prevent the enemy's huntsman passing by with
his hounds. It was afterward declared that Mr. Harkaway had not been heard to curse and swear
for the last fifteen years. "I'm d----d if I don't!" said Mr. Fairlawn, riding up to him. Mr.
Harkaway was ten years the older man, and looked as though he had much less of fighting power.
But no one saw him quail or give an inch. Those who watched his face declared that his lips
were white with rage and quivered with passion.

To tell the words which passed between them after that would require Homer's pathos and Homer's
imagination. The two old men scowled and scolded at each other, and, had Mr. Fairlawn attempted
to pass, Mr. Harkaway would certainly have struck him with his whip. And behind their master
a crowd of the Puckeridge men collected themselves,--foremost among whom was Joshua Thoroughbung.
"Take 'em round to the covert by Winnipeg Lane," said Mr. Fairlawn to his huntsman. The man
prepared to take his pack round by Winnipeg Lane, which would have added a mile to the distance.
But the huntsman, when he had got a little to the left, was soon seen scurrying across the
country in the direction of the covert, with a dozen others at his heels, and the hounds following
him. But old Mr. Harkaway had seen it too, and having possession of the road, galloped along
it at such a pace that no one could pass him.

All the field declared that they had regarded it as impossible that their master should move
so fast. And Dillon, and the whips, and Thoroughbung, and Harry Annesley, with half a dozen
others, kept pace with him. They would not sit there and see their master outmanoeuvred by
any lack of readiness on their part. They got to the covert first, and there, with their whips
drawn, were ready to receive the second pack. Then one hound went in without an order; but
for their own hounds they did not care. They might find a fox and go after him, and nobody
would follow them. And if we shall not have corrected the transgression (or, in the event
of our being out of the realm, if our justiciar shall not have corrected
it) within forty days, reckoning from the time it has been intimated
to us (or to our justiciar, if we should be out of the realm), the
four barons aforesaid shall refer that matter to the rest of the five
and twenty barons, and those five and twenty barons shall, together
with the community of the whole realm, distrain and distress us in
all possible ways, namely, by seizing our castles, lands, possessions,
and in any other way they can, until redress has been obtained as
they deem fit, saving harmless our own person, and the persons of
our queen and children; and when redress has been obtained, they shall
resume their old relations towards us.

And let whoever in the country desires it, swear to obey the orders of the said five and twenty barons
for the execution of all the aforesaid matters, and along with them, to molest us to the utmost
of his power; and we publicly and freely grant leave to everyone who wishes to swear, and
we shall never forbid anyone to swear.

All those, moveover, in the land who of themselves and of their own accord are unwilling to
swear to the twenty five to help them in constraining and molesting
us, we shall by our command compel the same to swear to the effect
foresaid.

And if any one of the five and twenty barons shall have died or departed from the land, or be incapacitated
in any other manner which would prevent the foresaid provisions being carried out, those of the
said twenty five barons who are left shall choose another in his place according to their own judgment,
and he shall be sworn in the same way as the others.

Further, in all matters, the execution of which is entrusted, to these twenty five barons, if
perchance these twenty five are present and disagree about anything, or if some of them, after
being summoned, are unwilling or unable to be present, that which the majority of those present
ordain or command shall be held as fixed and established, exactly
as if the whole twenty five had concurred in this; and the said twenty
five shall swear that they will faithfully observe all that is aforesaid,
and cause it to be observed with all their might.

And we shall procure nothing from anyone, directly or indirectly, whereby any part of these
concessions and liberties might be revoked or diminished; and if any such things has been procured,
let it be void and null, and we shall never use it personally or
by another. "He's in an awful passion,"
said Thoroughbung; "he can't speak from anger." But, to tell the truth, Mr. Harkaway was ashamed
of himself. He was an old gentleman, between seventy and eighty, who was supposed to go out
for his amusement, and had allowed himself to be betrayed into most unseemly language. What
though the hound had not "shown a line?" Was it necessary that he, at his time of life, should
fight on the road for the maintenance of a trifling right of sport. But yet there came upon
him from time to time a sense of the deep injury done to him. That man Fairlawn, that blackguard,
that creature of all others the farthest removed from a gentleman, had declared that in his,
Mr. Harkaway's teeth, he would draw his, Mr. Harkaway's covert! Then he would urge on his old
horse, and gnash his teeth; and then, again, he would be ashamed. "Tantaene animis coelestibus
irae?"

But Thoroughbung rode home high in spirits, very proud, and conscious of having done good work.
He was always anxious to stand well with the hunt generally, and was aware that he had now
distinguished himself. Harry Annesley was on one side of him, and on the other rode Mr. Florin,
the banker. "He's an abominable liar!" said Thoroughbung, "a wicked, wretched liar!" He was
alluding to the Hitchiner's whip, whom in his wrath he had nearly sent to another world. "He
says that one of his hounds got into the covert, but I was there and saw it all. Not a nose
was over the little bank which runs between the field and the covert."

"You must have seen a hound if he had been there," said the banker.

"I was as cool as a cucumber, and could count the hounds he had with him. There were three
of them. A big black-spotted bitch was leading, the one that I nearly fell upon. When the man
went down the hound stopped, not knowing what was expected of him. How should he? The man would
have been in the covert, but, by George! I managed to stop him."

"What did you mean to do to him when you rode at him so furiously?" asked Harry.

"Not let him get in there. That was my resolute purpose. I suppose I should have knocked him
off his horse with my whip."

"But suppose he had knocked you off your horse?" suggested the banker.

"There is no knowing how that might have been. I never calculated those chances. When a man
wants to do a thing like that he generally does it."

"And you did it?" said Harry.

"Yes; I think I did. I dare say his bones are sore. I know mine are. But I don't care for that
in the least. When this day comes to be talked about, as I dare say it will be for many a long
year, no one will be able to say that the Hitchiners got into that covert." Thoroughbung, with
the genuine modesty of an Englishman, would not say that he had achieved by his own prowess
all this glory for the Puckeridge Hunt, but he felt it down to the very end of his nails.

Had he not been there that whip would have got into the wood, and a very different tale would
then have been told in those coming years to which his mind was running away with happy thoughts.
He had ridden the aggressors down; he had stopped the first intrusive hound. But though he
continued to talk of the subject, he did not boast in so many words that he had done it. His
"veni, vidi, vici," was confined to his own bosom.

As they rode home together there came to be a little crowd of men round Thoroughbung, giving
him the praises that were his due. But one by one they fell off from Annesley's side of the
road. He soon felt that no one addressed a word to him. He was, probably, too prone to encourage
them in this. It was he that fell away, and courted loneliness, and then in his heart accused
them. There was do doubt something of truth in his accusations; but another man, less sensitive,
might have lived it down. He did more than meet their coldness half-way, and then complained
to himself of the bitterness of the world. "They are like the beasts of the field," he said,
"who when another beast has been wounded, turn upon him and rend him to death." His future
brother-in-law, the best natured fellow that ever was born, rode on thoughtless, and left Harry
alone for three or four miles, while he received the pleasant plaudits of his companions. In
Joshua's heart was that tale of the whip's discomfiture. He did not see that Molly's brother
was alone as soon as he would have done but for his own glory. "He is the same as the others,"
said Harry to himself. "Because that man has told a falsehood of me, and has had the wit to
surround it with circumstances, he thinks it becomes him to ride away and cut me." Then he
asked himself some foolish questions as to himself and as to Joshua Thoroughbung, which he
did not answer as he should have done, had he remembered that he was then riding Thoroughbung's
horse, and that his sister was to become Thoroughbung's wife.

After half an hour of triumphant ovation, Joshua remembered his brother-in-law, and did fall
back so as to pick him up. "What's the matter, Harry? Why don't you come on and join us?"

"I'm sick of hearing of that infernal squabble."

"Well; as to a squabble, Mr. Harkaway behaved quite right. If a hunt is to be kept up, the
right of entering coverts must be preserved for the hunt they belong to. There was no line
shown. You must remember that there isn't a doubt about that. The hounds were all astray when
we joined them. It's a great question whether they brought their fox into that first covert.
There are they who think that Bodkin was just riding across the Puckeridge country in search
of a fox." Bodkin was Mr. Fairlawn's huntsman. "If you admit that kind of thing, where will
you be? As a hunting country, just nowhere. Then as a sportsman, where are you? It is necessary
to put down such gross fraud. My own impression is that Mr. Fairlawn should be turned out from
being master. I own I feel very strongly about it. But then I always have been fond of hunting."

"Just so," said Harry, sulkily, who was not in the least interested as to the matter on which
Joshua was so eloquent.

Then Mr. Proctor rode by, the gentleman who in the early part of the day disgusted Harry by
calling him "mister." "Now, Mr. Proctor," continued Joshua, "I appeal to you whether Mr. Harkaway
was not quite right? If you won't stick up for your rights in a hunting county--" But Mr. Proctor
rode on, wishing them good-night, very discourteously declining to hear the remainder of the
brewer's arguments. "He's in a hurry, I suppose," said Joshua.

"You'd better follow him. You'll find that he'll listen to you then."

"I don't want him to listen to me particularly."

"I thought you did." Then for half an hour the two men rode on in silence.

"What's the matter with you Harry?" said Joshua. "I can see there's something up that riles
you. I know you're a fellow of your college, and have other things to think of besides the
vagaries of a fox."

"The fellow of a college!" said Harry, who, had he been in a good-humor, would have thought
much more of being along with a lot of fox-hunters than of any college honors.

"Well, yes; I suppose it is a great thing to be a fellow of a college. I never could have been
one if I had mugged forever."

"My being a fellow of a college won't do me much good. Did you see that old man Proctor go
by just now?"

"Oh yes; he never likes to be out after a certain hour."

"And did you see Florin, and Mr. Harkaway, and a lot of others? You yourself have been going
on ahead for the last hour without speaking to me."

"How do you mean without speaking to you?" said Joshua, turning sharp round.

Then Harry Annesley reflected that he was doing an injustice to his future brother-in-law.

"Perhaps I have done you wrong," he said.

"You have."

"I beg your pardon. I believe you are as honest and true a fellow as there is in Hertfordshire,
but for those others--"

"You think it's about Mountjoy Scarborough, then?" asked Joshua.

"I do. That infernal fool, Peter Prosper, has chosen to publish to the world that he has dropped
me because of something that he has heard of that occurrence. A wretched lie has been told
with a purpose by Mountjoy Scarborough's brother, and my uncle has taken it into his wise head
to believe it. The truth is, I have not been as respectful to him as he thinks I ought, and
now he resents my neglect in this fashion. He is going to marry your aunt in order that he
may have a lot of children, and cut me out. In order to justify himself, he has told these
lies about me, and you see the consequence;--not a man in the county is willing to speak to me."

"I really think a great deal of it's fancy."

"You go and ask Mr. Harkaway. He's honest, and he'll tell you. Ask this new cousin of yours,
Mr. Prosper."

"I don't know that they are going to make a match of it, after all."

"Ask my own father. Only think of it,--that a puling, puking idiot like that, from a mere freak,
should be able to do a man such a mischief! He can rob me of my income, which he himself has
brought me up to expect. That he can do by a stroke of his pen. He can threaten to have sons
like Priam. All that is within his own bosom. But to justify himself to the world at large,
he picks up a scandalous story from a man like Augustus Scarborough, and immediately not a
man in the county will speak to me. I say that that is enough to break a man's heart,--not
the injury done which a man should bear, but the injustice of the doing. Who wants his beggarly
allowance! He can do as he likes about his own money. I shall never ask him for his money.
But that he should tell such a lie as this about the county is more than a man can endure."

"What was it that did happen?" asked Joshua.

"The man met me in the street when he was drunk, and he struck at me and was insolent. Of course
I knocked him down. Who wouldn't have done the same? Then his brother found him somewhere,
or got hold of him, and sent him out of the country, and says that I had held my tongue when
I left him in the street. Of course I held my tongue. What was Mountjoy to me? Then Augustus
has asked me sly questions, and accuses me of lying because I did not choose to tell him everything.
It all comes out of that."

Here they had reached the rectory, and Harry, after seeing that the horses were properly supplied
with gruel, took himself and his ill-humor up-stairs to his own chamber. But Joshua had a word
or two to say to one of the inmates of the rectory.

He felt that it would be improper to ride his horse home without giving time to the animal
to drink his gruel, and therefore made his way into the little breakfast-parlor, where Molly
had a cup of tea and buttered toast ready for him. He of course told her first of the grand
occurrence of the day,--how the two packs of hounds had mixed themselves together, how violently
the two masters had fallen out and had nearly flogged each other, how Mr. Harkaway had sworn
horribly,--who had never been heard to swear before,--how a final attempt had been made to
seize a second covert, and how, at last, it had come to pass that he had distinguished himself.
"Do you mean to say that you absolutely rode over the unfortunate man?" asked Molly.

"I did. Not that the man had the worst of it,--or very much the worse. There we were both down,
and the two horses, all in a heap together."

"Oh, Joshua, suppose you had been kicked!"

"In that case I should have been--kicked."

"But a kick from an infuriated horse!"

"There wasn't much infuriation about him. The man had ridden all that out of the beast."

"You are sure to laugh at me, Joshua, because I think what terrible things might have happened
to you. Why do you go putting yourself so forward in every danger, now that you have got somebody
else to depend upon you and to care for you? It's very, very wrong."

"Somebody had to do it, Molly. It was most important, in the interests of hunting generally,
that those hounds should not have been allowed to get into that covert. I don't think that
outsiders ever understand how essential it is to maintain your rights. It isn't as though it
were an individual. The whole county may depend upon it."

"Why shouldn't it be some man who hasn't got a young woman to look after?" said Molly, half
laughing and half crying.

"It's the man who first gets there who ought to do it," said Joshua. "A man can't stop to remember
whether he has got a young woman or not."

"I don't think you ever want to remember." Then that little quarrel was brought to the usual
end with the usual blandishments, and Joshua went on to discuss with her that other source
of trouble, her brother's fall. "Harry is awfully cut up," said the brewer.

"You mean these affairs about his uncle?"

"Yes. It isn't only the money he feels, or the property, but people look askew at him. You
ought all of you to be very kind to him."

"I am sure we are."

"There is something in it to vex him. That stupid old fool, your uncle--I beg your pardon,
you know, for speaking of him in that way--"

"He is a stupid old fool."

"Is behaving very badly. I don't know whether he shouldn't be treated as I did that fellow
up at the covert."

"Ride over him?"

"Something of that kind. Of course Harry is sore about it, and when a man is sore he frets
at a thing like that more than he ought to do. As for that aunt of mine at Buntingford, there
seems to be some hitch in it. I should have said she'd have married the Old Gentleman had he
asked her."

"Don't talk like that, Joshua."

"But there is some screw loose. Simpson came up to my father about it yesterday, and the governor
let enough of the cat out of the bag to make me know that the thing is not going as straight
as she wishes."

"He has offered, then?"

"I am sure he has asked her."

"And your aunt will accept him?" asked Molly.

"There's probably some difference about money. It's all done with the intention of injuring
poor Harry. If he were my own brother I could not be more unhappy about him. And as to Aunt
Matilda, she's a fool. There are two fools together. If they choose to marry we can't hinder
them. But there is some screw loose, and if the two young lovers don't know their own minds
things may come right at last." Then, with some farther blandishments, the prosperous brewer
walked away.

CHAPTER XXX.

PERSECUTION.

In the mean time Florence Mountjoy was not passing her time pleasantly at Brussels. Various
troubles there attended her. All her friends around her were opposed to her marriage with Harry
Annesley. Harry Annesley had become a very unsavory word in the mouths of Sir Magnus and the
British Embassy generally. Mrs. Mountjoy told her grief to her brother-in-law, who thoroughly
took her part, as did also, very strongly, Lady Mountjoy. It got to be generally understood
that Harry was a mauvais sujet. Such was the name that was attached to him, and the belief
so conveyed was thoroughly entertained by them all. Sir Magnus had written to friends in London,
and the friends in London bore out the reports that were so conveyed. The story of the midnight
quarrel was told in a manner very prejudicial to poor Harry, and both Sir Magnus and his wife
saw the necessity of preserving their niece from anything so evil as such a marriage. But Florence
was very firm, and was considered to be very obstinate. To her mother she was obstinate but
affectionate To Sir Magnus she was obstinate and in some degree respectful. But to Lady Mountjoy
she was neither affectionate nor respectful. She took a great dislike to Lady Mountjoy, who
endeavored to domineer; and who, by the assistance of the two others, was in fact tyrannical.
It was her opinion that the girl should be compelled to abandon the man, and Mrs. Mountjoy
found herself constrained to follow this advice. She did love her daughter, who was her only
child. The main interest of her life was centred in her daughter. Her only remaining ambition
rested on her daughter's marriage. She had long revelled in the anticipation of being the mother-in-law
of the owner of Tretton Park. She had been very proud of her daughter's beauty.

Then had come the first blow, when Harry Annesley had come to Montpelier Place and had been
welcomed by Florence. Mrs. Mountjoy had seen it all long before Florence had been aware of
it. And the first coming of Harry had been long before the absolute disgrace of Captain Scarborough,--at
any rate, before the tidings of that disgrace had reached Cheltenham. Mrs. Mountjoy had been
still able to dream of Tretton Park, after the Jews had got their fingers on it,--even after
the Jews had been forced to relinquish their hold. It can hardly be said that up to this very
time Mrs. Mountjoy had lost all hope in her nephew, thinking that as the property had been
entailed some portion of it must ultimately belong to him. She had heard that Augustus was
to have it, and her desires had vacillated between the two. Then Harry had positively declared
himself, and Augustus had given her to understand how wretched, how mean, how wicked had been
Harry's conduct. And he fully explained to her that Harry would be penniless. She had indeed
been aware that Buston,--quite a trifling thing compared to Tretton,--was to belong to him.
But entails were nothing nowadays. It was part of the radical abomination to which England
was being subjected. Not even Buston was now to belong to Harry Annesley. The small income
which he had received from his uncle was stopped. He was reduced to live upon his fellowship,--which
would be stopped also if he married. She even despised him because he was the fellow of a college;--she
had looked for a husband for her daughter so much higher than any college could produce. It
was not from any lack of motherly love that she was opposed to Florence, or from any innate
cruelty that she handed her daughter over to the tender mercies of Lady Mountjoy.

And since she had been at Brussels there had come up farther hopes. Another mode had shown
itself of escaping Harry Annesley, who was of all catastrophes the most dreaded and hated.
Mr. Anderson, the second secretary of legation,--he whose business it was to ride about the
boulevard with Sir Magnus,--had now declared himself in form. "Never saw a fellow so bowled
over," Sir Magnus had declared, by which he had intended to signify that Mr. Anderson was now
truly in love. "I've seen him spooney a dozen times," Sir Magnus had said, confidentially,
to his sister-in-law, "but he has never gone to this length. He has asked a lot of girls to
have him, but he has always been off it again before the week was over. He has written to his
mother now."

And Mr. Anderson showed his love by very unmistakable signs. Sir Magnus too, and Lady Mountjoy,
were evidently on the same side as Mr. Anderson. Sir Magnus thought there was no longer any
good in waiting for his nephew, the captain, and of that other nephew, Augustus, he did not
entertain any very high idea. Sir Magnus had corresponded lately with Augustus, and was certainly
not on his side. But he so painted Mr. Anderson's prospects in life, as did also Lady Mountjoy,
as to make it appear that if Florence could put up with young Anderson she would do very well
with herself.

"He's sure to be a baronet some of these days, you know," said Sir Magnus.

"I don't think that would go very far with Florence," said her mother.

"But it ought. Look about in the world and you'll see that it does go a long way. He'd be the
fifth baronet."

"But his elder brother is alive."

"The queerest fellow you ever saw in your born days, and his life is not worth a year's purchase.
He's got some infernal disease,--nostalgia, or what 'd'ye call it?--which never leaves him
a moment's peace, and then he drinks nothing but milk. Sure to go off;--cock sure."

"I shouldn't like Florence to count upon that."

"And then Hugh Anderson, the fellow here, is very well off as it is. He has four hundred pounds
here, and another five hundred pounds of his own. Florence has, or will have, four hundred
pounds of her own. I should call them deuced rich. I should, indeed, as beginners. She could
have her pair of ponies here, and what more would she want?"

These arguments did go very far with Mrs. Mountjoy, the farther because in her estimation Sir
Magnus was a great man. He was the greatest Englishman, at any rate, in Brussels, and where
should she go for advice but to an Englishman? And she did not know that Sir Magnus had succeeded
in borrowing a considerable sum of money from his second secretary of legation.

"Leave her to me for a little;--just leave her to me," said Lady Mountjoy.

"I would not say anything hard to her," said the mother, pleading for her naughty child.

"Not too hard, but she must be made to understand. You see there have been misfortunes. As
to Mountjoy Scarborough, he's past hoping for."

"You think so?"

"Altogether. When a man has disappeared there's an end of him. There was Lord Baltiboy's younger
son disappeared, and he turned out to be a Zouave corporal in a French regiment. They did get
him out, of course, but then he went preaching in America. You may take it for granted, that
when a man has absolutely vanished from the clubs, he'll never be any good again as a marrying
man."

"But there's his brother, who, they say, is to have the property."

"A very cold-blooded sort of young man, who doesn't care a straw for his own family." He had
received very sternly the overtures for a loan from Sir Magnus. "And he, as I understand, has
never declared himself in Florence's favor. You can't count upon Augustus Scarborough."

"Not just count upon him."

"Whereas there's young Anderson, who is the most gentleman-like young man I know, all ready.
It will have been such a turn of luck your coming here and catching him up."

"I don't know that it can be called a turn of luck. Florence has a very nice fortune of her own--"

"And she wants to give it to this penniless reprobate. It is just one of those cases in which
you must deal roundly with a girl. She has to be frightened, and that's about the truth of it."

After this, Lady Mountjoy did succeed in getting Florence alone with herself into her morning-room.
When her mother told her that her aunt wished to see her, she answered first that she had no
special wish to see her aunt. Her mother declared that in her aunt's house she was bound to
go when her aunt sent for her. To this Florence demurred. She was, she thought, her aunt's
guest, but by no means at her aunt's disposal. But at last she obeyed her mother. She had resolved
that she would obey her mother in all things but one, and therefore she went one morning to
her aunt's chamber.

But as she went she was, on the first instance, caught by her uncle, and taken by him into
a little private sanctum behind his official room. "My dear," he said, "just come in here for
two minutes."

"I am on my way up to my aunt."

"I know it, my dear. Lady Mountjoy has been talking it all over with me. Upon my word you can't
do anything better than take young Anderson."

"I can't do that, Uncle Magnus."

"Why not? There's poor Mountjoy Scarborough, he has gone astray."

"There is no question of my cousin."

"And Augustus is no better."

"There is no question of Augustus either."

"As to that other chap, he isn't any good;--he isn't indeed."

"You mean Mr. Annesley?"

"Yes; Harry Annesley, as you call him. He hasn't got a shilling to bless himself with, or wouldn't
have if he was to marry you."

"But I have got something."

"Not enough for both of you, I'm afraid. That uncle of his has disinherited him."

"His uncle can't disinherit him."

"He's quite young enough to marry and have a family, and then Annesley will be disinherited.
He has stopped his allowance, anyway, and you mustn't think of him. He did something uncommonly
unhandsome the other day, though I don't quite know what."

"He did nothing unhandsome, Uncle Magnus."

"Of course a young lady will stand up for her lover, but you will really have to drop him.
I'm not a hard sort of man, but this was something that the world will not stand. When he thought
the man had been murdered he didn't say anything about it for fear they should tax him with
it. And then he swore he had never seen him. It was something of that sort."

"He never feared that any one would suspect him."

"And now young Anderson has proposed. I should not have spoken else, but it's my duty to tell
you about young Anderson. He's a gentleman all round."

"So is Mr. Annesley."

"And Anderson has got into no trouble at all. He does his duty here uncommonly well. I never
had less trouble with any young fellow than I have had with him. No licking him into shape,--or
next to none,--and he has a very nice private income. You together would have plenty, and could
live here till you had settled on apartments. A pair of ponies would be just the thing for
you to drive about and support the British interests. You think of it, my dear, and you'll
find that I'm right." Then Florence escaped from that room and went up to receive the much
more severe lecture which she was to have from her aunt.

"Come in, my dear," said Lady Mountjoy, in her most austere voice. She had a voice which could
assume austerity when she knew her power to be in the ascendant. As Florence entered the room
Miss Abbott left it by a door on the other side. "Take that chair, Florence. I want to have
a few minutes' conversation with you." Then Florence sat down. "When a young lady is thinking
of being married, a great many things have to be taken into consideration." This seemed to
be so much a matter of fact that Florence did not feel it necessary to make any reply. "Of
course I am aware you are thinking of being married."

"Oh yes," said Florence.

"But to whom?"

"To Harry Annesley," said Florence, intending to imply that all the world knew that.

"I hope not; I hope not. Indeed, I may say that it is quite out of the question. In the first
place, he is a beggar."

"He has begged from none," said Florence.

"He is what the world calls a beggar, when a young man without a penny thinks of being married."

"I'm not a beggar, and what I've got will be his."

"My dear, you're talking about what you don't understand. A young lady cannot give her money
away in that manner; it will not be allowed. Neither your mother, nor Sir Magnus, nor will
I permit it." Here Florence restrained herself, but drew herself up in her chair as though
prepared to speak out her mind if she should be driven. Lady Mountjoy would not permit it!
She thought that she would feel herself quite able to tell Lady Mountjoy that she had neither
power nor influence in the matter, but she determined to be silent a little longer. "In the
first place, a gentleman who is a gentleman never attempts to marry a lady for her money."

"But when a lady has the money she can express herself much more clearly than she could otherwise."

"I don't quite understand what you mean by that, my dear."

"When Mr. Annesley proposed to me he was the acknowledged heir to his uncle's property."

"A trumpery affair at the best of it."

"It would have sufficed for me. Then I accepted him."

"That goes for nothing from a lady. Of course your acceptance was contingent on circumstances."

"It was so;--on my regard. Having accepted him, and as my regard remains just as warm as ever,
I certainly shall not go back because of anything his uncle may do. I only say this to explain
that he was quite justified in his offer. It was not for my small fortune that he came to me."

"I'm not so sure of that."

"But if my money can be of any use to him, he's quite welcome to it. Sir Magnus spoke to me
about a pair of ponies. I'd rather have him than a pair of ponies."

"I'm coming to that just now. Here is Mr. Anderson."

"Oh yes; he's here."

There was certainly a touch of impatience in the tone in which this was uttered. It was as
though she had said that Mr. Anderson had so contrived that she could have no doubt whatever
about his continued presence. Mr. Anderson had made himself so conspicuous as to be visible
to her constantly. Lady Mountjoy, who intended at present to sing Mr. Anderson's praises, felt
this to be impertinent.

"I don't know what you mean by that. Mr. Anderson has behaved himself quite like a gentleman,
and you ought to be very proud of any token you may receive of his regard and affection."

"But I'm not bound to return to it."

"You are bound to think of it when those who are responsible for your actions tell you to do so."

"Mamma, you mean?"

"I mean your uncle, Sir Magnus Mountjoy." She did not quite dare to say that she had meant
herself. "I suppose you will admit that Sir Magnus is a competent judge of young men's characters?"

"He may be a judge of Mr. Anderson, because Mr. Anderson is his clerk."

There was something of an intention to depreciate in the word "clerk." Florence had not thought
much of Mr. Anderson's worth, nor, as far as she had seen them, of the duties generally performed
at the British Embassy. She was ignorant of the peculiar little niceties and intricacies which
required the residence at Brussels of a gentleman with all the tact possessed by Sir Magnus.
She did not know that while the mere international work of the office might be safely intrusted
to Mr. Blow and Mr. Bunderdown, all those little niceties, that smiling and that frowning,
that taking off of hats and only half taking them off, that genial, easy manner, and that stiff
hauteur, formed the peculiar branch of Sir Magnus himself,--and, under Sir Magnus, of Mr. Anderson.
She did not understand that even to that pair of ponies which was promised to her were to be
attached certain important functions, which she was to control as the deputy of the great man's
deputy And now she had called the great man's deputy a clerk!

"Mr. Anderson is no such thing," said Lady Mountjoy.

"His young man, then,--or private secretary;--only somebody else is that."

"You are very impertinent and very ungrateful. Mr. Anderson is second secretary of legation.
There is no officer attached to our establishment of more importance. I believe you say it
on purpose to anger me. And then you compare this gentleman to Mr. Annesley, a man to whom
no one will speak."

"I will speak to him." Had Harry heard her say that, he ought to have been a happy man in spite
of his trouble.

"You! What good can you do him?" Florence nodded her head, almost imperceptibly, but still
there was a nod, signifying more than she could possibly say. She thought that she could do
him a world of good if she were near him, and some good, too, though she were far away. If
she were with him she could hang on to his arm,--or perhaps at some future time round his neck,--and
tell him that she would be true to him though all others might turn away. And she could be
just as true where she was, though she could not comfort him by telling him so with her own
words. Then it was that she resolved upon writing that letter. He should already have what
little comfort she might administer in his absence. "Now, listen to me, Florence. He is a thorough
reprobate."

"I will not hear him so called. He is no reprobate."

"He has behaved in such a way that all England is crying out about him. He has done that which
will never allow any gentleman to speak to him again."

"Then there will be more need that a lady should do so. But it is not true."

"You put your knowledge of character against that of Sir Magnus."

"Sir Magnus does not know the gentleman; I do. What's the good of talking of it, aunt? Harry
Annesley has my word, and nothing on earth shall induce me to go back from it. Even were he
what you say I would be true to him."

"You would?"

"Certainly I would. I could not willingly begin to love a man whom I knew to be base; but when
I had loved him I would not turn because of his baseness;--I couldn't do it. It would be a
great--a terrible misfortune; but it would have to be borne. But here--I know all the story
to which you allude."

"I know it too."

"I am quite sure that the baseness has not been on his part. In defence of my name he has been
silent. He might have spoken out, if he had known all the truth then. I was as much his own
then as I am now. One of these days I suppose I shall be more so."

"You mean to marry him, then?"

"Most certainly I do, or I will never be married; and as he is poor now, and I must have my
own money when I am twenty-four, I suppose I shall have to wait till then."

"Will your mother's word go for nothing with you?"

"Poor mamma! I do believe that mamma is very unhappy, because she makes me unhappy. What may
take place between me and mamma I am not bound, I think, to tell you. We shall be away soon,
and I shall be left to mamma alone."

And mamma would be left alone to her daughter, Lady Mountjoy thought. The visit must be prolonged
so that at last Mr. Anderson might be enabled to prevail.

The visit had been originally intended for a month, but was now prolonged indefinitely. After
that conversation between Lady Mountjoy and her niece two or three things happened, all bearing
upon our story. Florence at once wrote her letter. If things were going badly in England with
Harry Annesley, Harry should at any rate have the comfort of knowing what were her feelings,--if
there might be comfort to him in that. "Perhaps, after all, he won't mind what I may say,"
she thought to herself; but only pretended to think it, and at once flatly contradicted her
own "perhaps." Then she told him most emphatically not to reply. It was very important that
she should write. He was to receive her letter, and there must be an end of it. She was quite
sure that he would understand her. He would not subject her to the trouble of having to tell
her own people that she was maintaining a correspondence, for it would amount to that. But
still when the time came for the answer she had counted it up to the hour. And when Sir Magnus
sent for her and handed to her the letter,--having discussed that question with her mother,--she
fully expected it, and felt properly grateful to her uncle. She wanted a little comfort, too,
and when she had read the letter she knew that she had received it.

There had been a few words spoken between the two elder ladies after the interview between
Florence and Lady Mountjoy. "She is a most self-willed young woman," said Lady Mountjoy.

"Of course she loves her lover," said Mrs. Mountjoy, desirous of making some excuse for her
own daughter. The girl was very troublesome, but not the less her daughter. "I don't know any
of them that don't who are worth anything."

"If you regard it in that light, Sarah, she'll get the better of you. If she marries him she
will be lost; that is the way you have got to look at it. It is her future happiness you must
think of--and respectability. She is a headstrong young woman, and has to be treated accordingly."

"What would you do?"

"I would be very severe."

"But what am I to do? I can't beat her; I can't lock her up in her room."

"Then you mean to give it up?"

"No, I don't. You shouldn't be so cross to me," said poor Mrs. Mountjoy. When it had reached
this the two ladies had become intimate. "I don't mean to give it up at all; but what am I to do?"

"Remain here for the next month, and--and worry her; let Mr. Anderson have his chance with
her. When she finds that everything will smile with her if she accepts him, and that her life
will be made a burden to her if she still sticks to her Harry Annesley, she'll come round,
if she be like other girls. Of course a girl can't be made to marry a man, but there are ways
and means." By this Lady Mountjoy meant that the utmost cruelty should be used which would
be compatible with a good breakfast, dinner, and bedroom. Now, Mrs. Mountjoy knew herself to
be incapable of this, and knew also, or thought that she knew, that it would not be efficacious.

"You stay here,--up to Christmas, if you like it," said Sir Magnus to his sister-in-law. "She
can't but see Anderson every day, and that goes a long way. She, of course, puts on a resolute
air as well as she can. They all know how to do that. Do you be resolute in return. The deuce
is in it if we can't have our way with her among us. When you talk of ill usage nobody wants
you to put her in chains. There are different ways of killing a cat. You get friends to write
to you from England about young Annesley, and I'll do the same. The truth, of course, I mean."

"Nothing can be worse than the truth," said Mrs. Mountjoy, shaking her head, sorrowfully.

"Just so," said Sir Magnus, who was not at all sorrowful to hear so bad an account of the favored
suitor. "Then we'll read her the letters. She can't help hearing them. Just the true facts,
you know. That's fair; nobody can call that cruel. And then, when she breaks down and comes
to our call, we'll all be as soft as mother's milk to her. I shall see her going about the
boulevards with a pair of ponies yet." Mrs. Mountjoy felt that when Sir Magnus spoke of Florence
coming to his call he did not know her daughter. But she had nothing better to do than to obey
Sir Magnus. Therefore she resolved to stay at Brussels another period of six weeks and told
Florence that she had so resolved. Just at present Brussels and Cheltenham would be all the
same to Florence.

"It will be a dreadful bore having them so long," said poor Lady Mountjoy, piteously, to her
husband. For in the presence of Sir Magnus she was by no means the valiant woman that she was
with some of her friends.

"You find everything a bore. What's the trouble?"

"What am I to do with them?"

"Take 'em about in the carriage. Lord bless my soul! what have you got a carriage for?"

"Then, with Miss Abbott, there's never room for any one else."

"Leave Miss Abbott at home, then. What's the good of talking to me about Miss Abbott? I suppose
it doesn't matter to you whom my brother's daughter marries?" Lady Mountjoy did not think that
it did matter much; but she declared that she had already evinced the most tender solicitude.
"Then stick to it. The girl doesn't want to go out every day. Leave her alone, where Anderson
can get at her."

"He's always out riding with you."

"No, he's not; not always. And leave Miss Abbott at home. Then there'll be room for two others.
Don't make difficulties. Anderson will expect that I shall do something for him, of course."

"Because of the money," said Lady Mountjoy, whispering.

"And I've got to do something for her too." Now, there was a spice of honesty about Sir Magnus.
He knew that as he could not at once pay back these sums, he was bound to make it up in some
other way. The debts would be left the same. But that would remain with Providence.

Then came Harry's letter, and there was a deep consultation. It was known to have come from
Harry by the Buntingford post-mark. Mrs. Mountjoy proposed to consult Lady Mountjoy; but to
that Sir Magnus would not agree. "She'd take her skin off her if she could, now that she's
angered," said the lady's husband, who no doubt knew the lady well. "Of course she'll learn
that the letter has been written, and then she'll throw it in our teeth. She wouldn't believe
that it had gone astray in coming here. We should give her a sort of a whip-hand over us."
So it was decided that Florence should have her letter.

CHAPTER XXXI.

FLORENCE'S REQUEST.

Thus it was arranged that Florence should be left in Mr. Anderson's way. Mr. Anderson, as Sir
Magnus had said, was not always out riding. There were moments in which even he was off duty.
And Sir Magnus contrived to ride a little earlier than usual so that he should get back while
the carriage was still out on its rounds. Lady Mountjoy certainly did her duty, taking Mrs.
Mountjoy with her daily, and generally Miss Abbott, so that Florence was, as it were, left
to the mercies of Mr. Anderson. She could, of course, shut herself up in her bedroom, but things
had not as yet become so bad as that. Mr. Anderson had not made himself terrible to her. She
did not, in truth, fear Mr. Anderson at all, who was courteous in his manner and complimentary
in his language, and she came at this time to the conclusion that if Mr. Anderson continued
his pursuit of her she would tell him the exact truth of the case. As a gentleman, and as a
young man, she thought that he would sympathize with her. The one enemy whom she did dread
was Lady Mountjoy. She too had felt that her aunt could "take her skin off her," as Sir Magnus
had said. She had not heard the words, but she knew that it was so, and her dislike to Lady
Mountjoy was in proportion. It cannot be said that she was afraid. She did not intend to leave
her skin in her aunt's hands. For every inch of skin taken she resolved to have an inch in
return. She was not acquainted with the expressive mode of language which Sir Magnus had adopted,
but she was prepared for all such attacks. For Sir Magnus himself, since he had given up the
letter to her, she did feel some regard.

Behind the British minister's house, which, though entitled to no such name, was generally
called the Embassy, there was a large garden, which, though not much used by Sir Magnus or
Lady Mountjoy, was regarded as a valuable adjunct to the establishment. Here Florence betook
herself for exercise, and here Mr. Anderson, having put off the muddy marks of his riding,
found her one afternoon. It must be understood that no young man was ever more in earnest than
Mr. Anderson. He, too, looking through the glass which had been prepared for him by Sir Magnus,
thought that he saw in the not very far distant future a Mrs. Hugh Anderson driving a pair
of gray ponies along the boulevard and he was much pleased with the sight. It reached to the
top of his ambition. Florence was to his eyes really the sort of a girl whom a man in his position
ought to marry. A secretary of legation in a small foreign capital cannot do with a dowdy wife,
as may a clerk, for instance, in the Foreign Office. A secretary of legation,--the second secretary,
he told himself,--was bound, if he married at all, to have a pretty and distinguée wife. He
knew all about the intricacies which had fallen in a peculiar way into his own hand. Mr. Blow
might have married a South Sea Islander, and would have been none the worse as regarded his
official duties. Mr. Blow did not want the services of a wife in discovering and reporting
all the secrets of the Belgium iron trade. There was no intricacy in that, no nicety. No widow
shall be compelled to marry, so long as she prefers to live without a husband; provided always
that she gives security not to marry without our consent, if she holds of us, or without the
consent of the lord of whom she holds, if she holds of another. There were little
niceties which none but a wife could perform. He had a great esteem for Sir Magnus. Sir Magnus
was well thought of by all the court, and by the foreign minister at Brussels. But Lady Mountjoy
was really of no use. The beginning and the end of it all with her was to show herself in a
carriage. It was incumbent upon him, Anderson, to marry.

He was loving enough, and very susceptible. He was too susceptible, and he knew his own fault,
and he was always on guard against it,--as behooved a young man with such duties as his. He
was always falling in love, and then using his diplomatic skill in avoiding the consequences.
He had found out that though one girl had looked so well under waxlight she did not endure
the wear and tear of the day. Another could not be always graceful, or, though she could talk
well enough during a waltz, she had nothing to say for herself at three o'clock in the morning.
And he was driven to calculate that he would be wrong to marry a girl without a shilling. "It
is a kind of thing that a man cannot afford to do unless he's sure of his position," he had
said on such an occasion to Montgomery Arbuthnot, alluding especially to his brother's state
of health. When Mr. Anderson spoke of not being sure of his position he was always considered
to allude to his brother's health. In this way he had nearly got his little boat on to the
rocks more than once, and had given some trouble to Sir Magnus. But now he was quite sure.
"It's all there all round," he had said to Arbuthnot more than once. Arbuthnot said that it
was there--"all round, all round." Waxlight and daylight made no difference to her. She was
always graceful. "Nobody with an eye in his head can doubt that," said Anderson. "I should
think not, by Jove!" replied Arbuthnot. "And for talking,--you never catch her out; never."
"I never did, certainly," said Arbuthnot, who, as third secretary, was obedient and kind-hearted.
"And then look at her money. Of course a fellow wants something to help him on. My position
is so uncertain that I cannot do without it." "Of course not." "Now, with some girls it's so
deuced hard to find out. You hear that a girl has got money, but when the time comes it depends
on the life of a father who doesn't think of dying;--damme, doesn't think of it."

"Those fellows never do," said Arbuthnot. "But here, you see, I know all about it. When she's
twenty-four,--only twenty-four,--she'll have ten thousand pounds of her own. I hate a mercenary
fellow." "Oh yes; that's beastly." "Nobody can say that of me. Circumstanced as I am, I want
something to help to keep the pot boiling. She has got it,--quite as much as I want,--quite,
and I know all about it without the slightest doubt in the world." For the small loan of fifteen
hundred pounds Sir Magnus paid the full value of the interest and deficient security. "Sir
Magnus tells me that if I'll only stick to her I shall be sure to win. There's some fellow
in England has just touched her heart,--just touched it, you know." "I understand," said Arbuthnot,
looking very wise. "He is not a fellow of very much account," said Anderson; "one of those
handsome fellows without conduct and without courage." "I've known lots of 'em," said Arbuthnot.
"His name is Annesley," said Anderson. "I never saw him in my life, but that's what Sir Magnus
says. He has done something awfully disreputable. I don't quite understand what it is, but
it's something which ought to make him unfit to be her husband. Nobody knows the world better
than Sir Magnus, and he says that it is so." "Nobody does know the world better than Sir Magnus,"
said Arbuthnot. And so that conversation was brought to an end.

One day soon after this he caught her walking in the garden. Her mother and Miss Abbot were
still out with Lady Mountjoy in the carriage, and Sir Magnus had retired after the fatigue
of his ride to sleep for half an hour before dinner. "All alone, Miss Mountjoy?" he said.

"Yes, alone, Mr. Anderson. I'm never in better company."

"So I think; but then if I were here you wouldn't be all alone, would you?"

"Not if you were with me."

"That's what I mean. But yet two people may be alone, as regards the world at large. Mayn't they?"

"I don't understand the nicety of language well enough to say. We used to have a question among
us when we were children whether a wild beast could howl in an empty cavern. It's the same
sort of thing."

"Why shouldn't he?"

"Because the cavern would not be empty if the wild beast were in it. Did you ever see a girl
bang an egg against a wall in a stocking, and then look awfully surprised because she had smashed
it?"

"I don't understand the joke."

"She had been told she couldn't break an egg in an empty stocking. Then she was made to look
in, and there was the broken egg for her pains. I don't know what made me tell you that story."

"It's a very good story. I'll get Miss Abbott to do it to-night. She believes everything."

"And everybody? Then she's a happy woman."

"I wish you'd believe everybody."

"So I do;--nearly everybody. There are some inveterate liars whom nobody can believe."

"I hope I am not regarded as one."

"You? certainly not. If anybody were to speak of you as such behind your back no one would
take your part more loyally than I. But nobody would."

"That's something, at any rate. Then you do believe that I love you?"

"I believe that you think so."

"And that I don't know my own heart?"

"That's very common, Mr. Anderson. I wasn't quite sure of my own heart twelve months ago, but
I know it now." He felt that his hopes ran very low when this was said. She had never before
spoken to him of his rival, nor had he to her. He knew, or fancied that he knew, that "her
heart had been touched," as he had said to Arbuthnot. But the "touch" must have been very deep
if she felt herself constrained to speak to him on the subject. It had been his desire to pass
over Mr. Annesley, and never to hear the name mentioned between them. "You were speaking of
your own heart."

"Well I was, no doubt. It is a silly thing to talk of, I dare say."

"I'm going to tell you of my heart, and I hope you won't think it silly. I do so because I
believe you to be a gentleman, and a man of honor." He blushed at the words and the tone in
which they were spoken, but his heart fell still lower. "Mr. Anderson, I am engaged." Here
she paused a moment, but he had nothing to say. "I am engaged to marry a gentleman whom I love
with all my heart, and all my strength, and all my body. I love him so that nothing can ever
separate me from him, or, at least, from the thoughts of him. As regards all the interests
of life, I feel as though I were already his wife. If I ever marry any man I swear to you that
it will be him." Then Mr. Anderson felt that all hope had utterly departed from him. She had
said that she believed him to be a man of truth. He certainly believed her to be a true-speaking
woman. He asked himself, and he found it to be quite impossible to doubt her word on this subject.
"Now I will go on and tell you my troubles. My mother disapproves of the man. Sir Magnus has
taken upon himself to disapprove, and Lady Mountjoy disapproves especially. I don't care two
straws about Sir Magnus and Lady Mountjoy. As to Lady Mountjoy, it is simply an impertinence
on her part, interfering with me." There was something in her face as she said this which made
Mr. Anderson feel that if he could only succeed in having her and the pair of ponies he would
be a prouder man than the ambassador at Paris. But he knew that it was hopeless. "As to my
mother, that is indeed a sorrow. She has been to me the dearest mother, putting her only hopes
of happiness in me. No mother was ever more devoted to a child, and of all children I should
be the most ungrateful were I to turn against her. But from my early years she has wished me
to marry a man whom I could not bring myself to love. You have heard of Captain Scarborough?"

"The man who disappeared?"

"He was and is my first cousin."

"He is in some way connected with Sir Magnus."

"Through mamma. Mamma is aunt to Captain Scarborough, and she married the brother of Sir Magnus.
Well, he has disappeared and been disinherited. I cannot explain all about it, for I don't
understand it; but he has come to great trouble. It was not on that account that I would not
marry him. It was partly because I did not like him, and partly because of Harry Annesley.
I will tell you everything because I want you to know my story. But my mother has disliked
Mr. Annesley, because she has thought that he has interfered with my cousin."

"I understand all that."

"And she has been taught to think that Mr. Annesley has behaved very badly. I cannot quite
explain it, because there is a brother of Captain Scarborough who has interfered. I never loved
Captain Scarborough, but that man I hate. He has spread those stories. Captain Scarborough
has disappeared, but before he went he thought it well to revenge himself on Mr. Annesley.
He attacked him in the street late at night, and endeavored to beat him."

"But why?"

"Why indeed. That such a trumpery cause as a girl's love should operate with such a man!"

"I can understand it; oh yes,--I can understand it."

"I believe he was tipsy, and he had been gambling, and had lost all his money--more than all
his money. He was a ruined man, and reckless and wretched. I can forgive him, and so does Harry.
But in the struggle Harry got the best of it, and left him there in the street. No weapons
had been used, except that Captain Scarborough had a stick. There was no reason to suppose
him hurt, nor was he much hurt. He had behaved very badly, and Harry left him. Had he gone
for a policeman he could only have given him in charge. The man was not hurt, and seems to
have walked away."

"The papers were full of it."

"Yes, the papers were full of it, because he was missing. I don't know yet what became of him,
but I have my suspicions."

"They say that he has been seen at Monaco."

"Very likely. But I have nothing to do with that. Though he was my cousin, I am touched nearer
in another place. Young Mr. Scarborough, who, I suspect, knows all about his brother, took
upon himself to cross-question Mr. Annesley. Mr. Annesley did not care to tell anything of
that struggle in the streets, and denied that he had seen him. In truth, he did not want to
have my name mentioned. My belief is that Augustus Scarborough knew exactly what had taken
place when he asked the question. It was he who really was false. But he is now the heir to
Tretton and a great man in his way, and in order to injure Harry Annesley he has spread abroad
the story which they all tell here."

"But why?"

"He does;--that is all I know. But I will not be a hypocrite. He chose to wish that I should
not marry Harry Annesley. I cannot tell you farther than that. But he has persuaded mamma,
and has told every one. He shall never persuade me."

"Everybody seems to believe him," said Mr. Anderson, not as intending to say that he believed
him now, but that he had done so.

"Of course they do. He has simply ruined Harry. He too has been disinherited now. I don't know
how they do these things, but it has been done. His uncle has been turned against him, and
his whole income has been taken from him. But they will never persuade me. Nor, if they did,
would I be untrue to him. It is a grand thing for a girl to have a perfect faith in the man
she has to marry, as I have--as I have. I know my man, and will as soon disbelieve in Heaven
as in him. But were he what they say he is, he would still have to become my husband. I should
be broken-hearted, but I should still be true. Thank God, though,--thank God,--he has done
nothing and will do nothing to make me ashamed of him. Now you know my story."

"Yes; now I know it." The tears came very near the poor man's eyes as he answered.

"And what will you do for me?"

"What shall I do?"

"Yes; what will you do? I have told you all my story, believing you to be a fine-tempered gentleman.
You have entertained a fancy which has been encouraged by Sir Magnus. Will you promise me not
to speak to me of it again? Will you relieve me of so much of my trouble? Will you;--will you?"
Then, when he turned away, she followed him, and put both her hands upon his arm. "Will you
do that little thing for me?"

"A little thing!"

"Is it not a little thing,--when I am so bound to that other man that nothing can move me?
Whether it be little or whether it be much, will you not do it?" She still held him by the
arm, but his face was turned from her so that she could not see it. The tears, absolute tears,
were running down his cheeks. What did it behoove him as a man to do? Was he to believe her
vows now and grant her request, and was she then to give herself to some third person and forget
Harry Annesley altogether? How would it be with him then? A faint heart never won a fair lady.
All is fair in love and war. You cannot catch cherries by holding your mouth open. A great
amount of wisdom such as this came to him at the spur of the moment. But there was her hand
upon his arm, and he could not elude her request. "Will you not do it for me?" she asked again.

"I will," he said, still keeping his face turned away.

"I knew it;--I knew you would. You are high-minded and honest, and cannot be cruel to a poor
girl. And if in time to come, when I am Harry Annesley's wife, we shall chance to meet each
other,--as we will,--he shall thank you."

"I shall not want that. What will his thanks do for me? You do not think that I shall be silent
to oblige him?" You'd have done the same as I did. Probably would have missed it a mile instead
of nearly getting caught as I did. A good thing the fleet's gone,
though.

Mars and Terra-- Venus, too-- they'll never know how close it was for
them.

Wouldn't have sense enough to appreciate it, anyway.

"" They would if they ever got a taste of what the Llotta planned. But what's wrong with you Carr?
You act sore. Want to go home?

"" Me? Don't be like that. No-- I'd like to carry on as we planned. There's Saturn, Uranus
and Neptune yet; Planet 9; a flock of satellites and asteroids. Oh,
dammit!

"Mado
looked his amazement." Well, what's to prevent it? "he demanded." The
Nomad's still here, and so are we. I'm just as anxious to keep going
as you are. Why not? " "There isn't a table so well kept in all Brussels," he used to boast.
But when he had done his share he expected that Anderson and Arbuthnot should do theirs, especially
Anderson. There had been sometimes a few words,--not quite a quarrel but nearly so,--on the
subject of dining out. Sir Magnus only dined out with royalty, cabinet ministers, and other
diplomats. Even then he rarely got a good dinner--what he called a good dinner. He often took
Anderson with him. He was the doyen among the diplomats in Brussels, and a little indulgence
was shown to him. Therefore he thought that Anderson should be as true to him as was he to
Anderson. It was not for Anderson's sake, indeed, who felt the bondage to be irksome;--and
Sir Magnus knew that his subordinate sometimes groaned in spirit. But a good dinner is a good
dinner,--especially the best dinner in Brussels,--and Sir Magnus felt that something ought
to be given in return. He had not that perfect faith in mankind which is the surest evidence
of a simple mind. Ideas crowded upon him. Had Anderson a snug little dinner-party, just two
or three friends, in his own room? Sir Magnus would not have been very angry,--he was rarely
very angry,--but he should like to show his cleverness by finding it out. Anderson had been
quite well when he was out riding, and he did not remember him ever before to have had a headache.
"Is he very bad, Arbuthnot?"

"I haven't seen him, sir, since he was riding."

"Who has seen him?"

"He was in the garden with me," said Florence, boldly.

"I suppose that did not give him a headache."

"Not that I perceived."

"It is very singular that he should have a headache just when dinner is ready," continued Sir
Magnus.

"You had better leave the young man alone," said Lady Mountjoy.

And one who knew the ways of living at the British Embassy would be sure that after this Sir
Magnus would not leave the young man alone. His nature was not simple. It seemed to him again
that there might be a little dinner-party, and that Lady Mountjoy knew all about it. "Richard,"
he said to the butler, "go into Mr. Anderson's room and see if he is very bad." Richard came
back, and whispered to the great man that Anderson was not in his room. "This is very remarkable.
A bad headache, and not in his room! Where is he? I insist on knowing where Mr. Anderson is!"

"You had better leave him alone," said Lady Mountjoy.

"Leave a man alone because he's ill! He might die."

"Shall I go and see?" said Arbuthnot.

"I wish you would, and bring him in here, if he's well enough to show. I don't approve of a
young man going without his dinner. There's nothing so bad."

"He'll be sure to get something, Sir Magnus," said Lady Mountjoy. But Sir Magnus insisted that
Mr. Arbuthnot should go and look after his friend.

It was now November, and at eight o'clock was quite dark, but the weather was fine, and something
of the mildness of autumn remained. Arbuthnot was not long in discovering that Mr. Anderson
was again walking in the garden. He had left Florence there and had gone to the house, but
had found himself to be utterly desolate and miserable. She had exacted from him a promise
which was not compatible with any kind of happiness to which he could now look forward. In
the first place, all Brussels knew that he had been in love with Florence Mountjoy. He thought
that all Brussels knew it. And they knew that he had been in earnest in this love. He did believe
that all Brussels had given him credit for so much. And now they would know that he had suddenly
ceased to make love. It might be that this should be attributed to gallantry on his part,--that
it should be considered that the lady had been deserted. But he was conscious that he was not
so good a hypocrite as not to show that he was broken-hearted. He was quite sure that it would
be seen that he had got the worst of it. But when he asked himself questions as to his own
condition he told himself that there was suffering in store for him more heavy to bear than
these. There could be no ponies, with Florence driving them, and a boy in his own livery behind,
seen upon the boulevards. That vision was gone, and forever. And then came upon him an idea
that the absence of the girl from other portions of his life might touch him more nearly. He
did feel something like actual love. And the more she had told him of her devotion to Harry
Annesley, the more strongly he had felt the value of that devotion. Why should this man have
it and not he? He had not been disinherited. He had not been knocked about in a street quarrel.
He had not been driven to tell a lie as to his having not seen a man when he had, in truth,
knocked him down. He had quite agreed with Florence that Harry was justified in the lie; but
there was nothing in it to make the girl love him the better for it.

And then, looking forward, he could perceive the possibility of an event which, if it should
occur, would cover him with confusion and disgrace. If, after all, Florence were to take, not
Harry Annesley, but somebody else? How foolish, how credulous, how vain would he have been
then to have made the promise! Girls did such things every day. He had promised, and he thought
that he must keep his promise; but she would be bound by no promise! As he thought of it, he
reflected that he might even yet exact such a promise from her.

But when the dinner-time came he really was sick with love,--or sick with disappointment. He
felt that he could not eat his dinner under the battery of raillery which was always coming
from Sir Magnus, and therefore he had told the servants that as the evening progressed he would
have something to eat in his own room. And then he went out to wander in the dusk beneath the
trees in the garden. Here he was encountered by Mr. Arbuthnot, with his dress boots and white
cravat. "What the mischief are you doing here, old fellow?"

"I'm not very well. I have an awfully bilious headache."

"Sir Magnus is kicking up a deuce of a row because you're not there."

"Sir Magnus be blowed! How am I to be there if I've got a bilious headache? I'm not dressed.
I could not have dressed myself for a five-pound note."

"Couldn't you, now? Shall I go back and tell him that? But you must have something to eat.
I don't know what's up, but Sir Magnus is in a taking."

"He's always in a taking. I sometimes think he's the biggest fool out."

"And there's the place kept vacant next to Miss Mountjoy. Grascour wanted to sit there, but
her ladyship wouldn't let him. And I sat next Miss Abbott because I didn't want to be in your way."

"Tell Grascour to go and sit there, or you may do so. It's all nothing to me." This he said
in the bitterness of his heart, by no means intending to tell his secret, but unable to keep
it within his own bosom.

"What's the matter, Anderson?" asked the other piteously.

"I am clean broken-hearted. I don't mind telling you. I know you're a good fellow, and I'll
tell you everything. It's all over."

"All over--with Miss Mountjoy?" Then Anderson began to tell the whole story; but before he
had got half through, or a quarter through, another message came from Sir Magnus. "Sir Magnus
is becoming very angry indeed," whispered the butler. "He says that Mr. Arbuthnot is to go back."

"I'd better go, or I shall catch it."

"What's up with him, Richard?" asked Anderson.

"Well, if you ask me, Mr. Anderson, I think he's--a-suspecting of something."

"What does he suspect?"

"I think he's a-thinking that perhaps you are having a jolly time of it." Richard had known
his master many years, and could almost read his inmost thoughts. "I don't say as it so, but
that's what I am thinking."

"You tell him I ain't. You tell him I've a bad bilious headache, and that the air in the garden
does it good. You tell him that I mean to have something to eat up-stairs when my head is better;
and do you mind and let me have it, and a bottle of claret." 

(30) No sheriff, royal official, or other person shall take horses or carts for transport from
any free man, without his consent.

(31) Neither we nor any royal official will take wood for our castle,
or for any other purpose, without the consent of the owner. I think I shall get leave of absence and go away for two months. You'll have to do
all the riding, old fellow. I shall go,--but I don't know where I shall go. You return to them
now, and tell them I've such a bilious headache I don't know which way to turn myself."

Arbuthnot went back, and found Sir Magnus quarrelling grievously with the butler. "I don't
think he's doing anything as he shouldn't," the butler whispered, having seen into his master's
mind.

"What do you mean by that?"

"Do let the matter drop," said Lady Mountjoy, who had also seen into her husband's mind, and
saw, moreover, that the butler had done so. "A young man's dinner isn't worth all this bother."

"I won't let the matter drop. What does he mean when he says that he isn't doing anything that
he shouldn't? I've never said anything about what he was doing."

"He isn't dressed, Sir Magnus. He finds himself a little better now, and means to have something
up-stairs." Then there came an awful silence, during which the dinner was eaten. Sir Magnus
knew nothing of the truth, simply suspecting the headache to be a myth. Lady Mountjoy, with
a woman's quickness, thought that there had been some words between Florence and her late lover,
and, as she disliked Florence, was inclined to throw all the blame upon her. A word had been
said to Mrs. Mountjoy,--"I don't think he'll trouble me any more, mamma,"--which Mrs. Mountjoy
did not quite understand, but which she connected with the young man's absence. But Florence
understood it all, and liked Mr. Anderson the better. Could it really be that for love of her
he would lose his dinner? Could it be that he was so grievously afflicted at the loss of a
girl's heart? There he was, walking out in the dark and the cold, half-famished, all because
she loved Harry Annesley so well that there could be no chance for him! Girls believe so little
in the truth of the love of men that any sign of its reality touches them to the core. Poor
Hugh Anderson! A tear came into her eye as she thought that he was wandering there in the dark,
and all for the love of her. The rest of the dinner passed away in silence, and Sir Magnus
hardly became cordial and communicative with M. Grascour, even under the influence of his wine.

On the next morning just before lunch Florence was waylaid by Mr. Anderson as she was passing
along one of the passages in the back part of the house. "Miss Mountjoy," he said, "I want
to ask from your great goodness the indulgence of a few words."

"Certainly."

"Could you come into the garden?"

"If you will give me time to go and change my boots and get a shawl. We ladies are not ready
to go out always, as are you gentlemen."

"Anywhere will do. Come in here," and he led the way into a small parlor which was not often used.

"I was so sorry to hear last night that you were unwell, Mr. Anderson."

"I was not very well, certainly, after what I had heard before dinner." He did not tell her
that he so far recovered as to be able to drink a bottle of claret and to smoke a couple of
cigars in his bedroom. "Of course you remember what took place yesterday."

"Remember! Oh yes. I shall not readily forget it."

"I made you a promise--"

"You did--very kindly."

"And I mean to keep it."

"I'm sure you do, because you're a gentleman."

"I don't think I ought to have made it."

"Oh, Mr. Anderson!"

"I don't think I ought. See what I am giving up."

"Nothing, except the privilege of troubling me."

"But if it should be something else? Do not be angry with me, but, loving you as I do, of course
my mind is full of it. I have promised, and must be dumb."

"And I shall be spared great vexation."

"But suppose I were to hear that in six months' time you had married some one else?"

"Mr. Annesley, you mean. Not in six months."

"Somebody else. Not Mr. Annesley."

"There is nobody else."

"But there might be."

"It is impossible. After all that I told you, do not you understand?"

"But if there were?" The poor man, as he made the suggestion, looked very piteous. "If there
were, I think you should promise me I shall be that somebody else. That would be no more than
fair."

She paused a moment to think, frowning the while. "Certainly not."

"Certainly not?"

"I can make no such promise, nor should you ask it. I am to promise that under certain circumstances
I would become your wife, when I know that under no circumstances I would do so."

"Under no circumstances?"

"Under none. What would you have me say, Mr. Anderson? Supposing yourself engaged to marry
a girl--"

"I wish I were--to you."

"To a girl who loved you, and whom you loved?"

"There's no doubt about my loving her."

"You can follow my meaning, and I wish that you would do so. What would you think if you were
to hear that she had promised to marry some one else in the event of your deserting her? It
is out of the question. I mean to be the wife of Harry Annesley. Say that it is not to be so,
and you will simply destroy me. Of one thing I may be sure,--that I will marry him or nobody.
You promised me, not because your promise was necessary for that, but to spare me from trouble
till that time shall come. And I am grateful,--very grateful." Then she left him suffering
from another headache.

"Was there anything said between you and Mr. Anderson yesterday?" her aunt inquired, that afternoon.

"Why do you ask?"

"Because it is necessary that I should know."

"I do not see the necessity. Mr. Anderson has, at any rate, your permission to say what he
likes to me, but I am not on that account bound to tell you all that he does say. But I will
tell you. He has promised to trouble me no farther. I told him that I was engaged to Mr. Annesley,
and he, like a gentleman, has assured me that he will desist."

"Just because you asked him?"

"Yes, aunt; just because I asked him."

"He will not be bound by such a promise for a moment. It is a thing not to be heard of. If
that kind of thing is to go on, any young lady will be entitled to ask any young gentleman
not to say a word of marriage, just at her request."

"Some of the young ladies would not care for that, perhaps."

"Don't be impertinent."

"I should not, for one, aunt; only that I am already engaged."

"And of course the young ladies would be bound to make such requests, which would go for nothing
at all. I never heard of anything so monstrous. You are not only to have the liberty of refusing,
but are to be allowed to bind a gentleman not to ask!"

"He has promised."

"Pshaw! It means nothing."

"It is between him and me. I asked him because I wished to save myself from being troubled."

"As for that other man, my dear, it is quite out of the question. From all that I hear, it
is on the cards that he may be arrested and put into prison. I am quite sure that at any rate
he deserves it. The letters which Sir Magnus gets about him are fearful. (35) There shall be
standard measures of wine, ale, and corn (the London quarter), throughout the kingdom. There
shall also be a standard width of dyed cloth, russett, and haberject, namely two ells within the
selvedges. Weights are to be standardised similarly.

"I do," said Florence, bobbing her head.

"And what your uncle says to you has no effect?"

