HUMOROUS GHOST STORIES

HUMOROUS GHOST STORIES

SELECTED, WITH AN INTRODUCTION

BY

DOROTHY SCARBOROUGH, PH.D.

LECTURER IN ENGLISH, COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY AUTHOR OF "THE SUPERNATURAL IN MODERN ENGLISH FICTION,"
"FUGITIVE VERSES," "FROM A SOUTHERN PORCH," ETC. COMPILER OF "FAMOUS MODERN GHOST STORIES"

G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS

NEW YORK AND LONDON

The Knickerbocker Press

1921

COPYRIGHT, 1921

BY

DOROTHY SCARBOROUGH

Printed in the United States of America

    To

    DR. AND MRS. JOHN T. HARRINGTON

    Life flings miles and years between us,
        It is true,--
    But brings never to me dearer
        Friends than you!

The Humorous Ghost

INTRODUCTION

The humorous ghost is distinctly a modern character. In early literature wraiths took themselves
very seriously, and insisted on a proper show of respectful fear on the part of those whom
they honored by haunting. A mortal was expected to rise when a ghost entered the room, and
in case he was slow about it, his spine gave notice of what etiquette demanded. In the event
of outdoor apparition, if a man failed to bare his head in awe, the roots of his hair reminded
him of his remissness. Woman has always had the advantage over man in such emergency, in that
her locks, being long and pinned up, are less easily moved--which may explain the fact (if
it be a fact!) that in fiction women have shown themselves more self-possessed in ghostly presence
than men. Or possibly a woman knows that a masculine spook is, after all, only a man, and therefore
may be charmed into helplessness, while the feminine can be seen through by another woman and
thus disarmed. The majority of the comic apparitions, curiously enough, are masculine. You
don't often find women wraithed in smiles--perhaps because they resent being made ridiculous,
even after they're dead. Or maybe the reason lies in the fact that men have written most of
the comic or satiric ghost stories, and have chivalrously spared the gentler shades. And there
are very few funny child-ghosts--you might almost say none, in comparison with the number of
grown-ups. The number of ghost children of any or all types is small proportionately--perhaps
because it seems an unnatural thing for a child to die under any circumstances, while to make
of him a butt for jokes would be unfeeling. There are a few instances, as in the case of the
ghost baby mentioned later, but very few.

Ancient ghosts were a long-faced lot. They didn't know how to play at all. They had been brought
up in stern repression of frivolities as haunters--no matter how sportive they may have been
in life--and in turn they cowed mortals into a servile submission. No doubt they thought of
men and women as mere youngsters that must be taught their place, since any living person,
however senile, would be thought juvenile compared with a timeless spook.

But in these days of individualism and radical liberalism, spooks as well as mortals are expanding
their personalities and indulging in greater freedom. A ghost can call his shade his own now,
and exhibit any mood he pleases. Even young female wraiths, demanding latchkeys, refuse to
obey the frowning face of the clock, and engage in light-hearted ebullience to make the ghost
of Mrs. Grundy turn a shade paler in horror. Nowadays haunters have more fun and freedom than
the haunted. In fact, it's money in one's pocket these days to be dead, for ghosts have no
rent problems, and dead men pay no bills. What officer would willingly pursue a ghostly tenant
to his last lodging in order to serve summons on him? And suppose a ghost brought into court
demanded trial by a jury of his peers? No--manifestly death has compensations not connected
with the consolations of religion.

The marvel is that apparitions were so long in realizing their possibilities, in improving
their advantages. The specters in classic and medieval literature were malarial, vaporous beings
without energy to do anything but threaten, and mortals never would have trembled with fear
at their frown if they had known how feeble they were. At best a revenant could only rattle
a rusty skeleton, or shake a moldy shroud, or clank a chain--but as mortals cowered before
his demonstrations, he didn't worry. If he wished to evoke the extreme of anguish from his
host, he raised a menacing arm and uttered a windy word or two. Now it takes more than that
to produce a panic. The up-to-date ghost keeps his skeleton in a garage or some place where
it is cleaned and oiled and kept in good working order. The modern wraith has sold his sheet
to the old clo'es man, and dresses as in life. Now the ghost has learned to have a variety
of good times, and he can make the living squirm far more satisfyingly than in the past. The
spook of to-day enjoys making his haunted laugh even while he groans in terror. He knows that
there's no weapon, no threat, in horror, to be compared with ridicule.

Think what a solemn creature the Gothic ghost was! How little originality and initiative he
showed and how dependent he was on his own atmosphere for thrills! His sole appeal was to the
spinal column. The ghost of to-day touches the funny bone as well. He adds new horrors to being
haunted, but new pleasures also. The modern specter can be a joyous creature on occasion, as
he can be, when he wishes, fearsome beyond the dreams of classic or Gothic revenant. He has
a keen sense of humor and loves a good joke on a mortal, while he can even enjoy one on himself.
Though his fun is of comparatively recent origin--it's less than a century since he learned
to crack a smile--the laughing ghost is very much alive and sportively active. Some of these
new spooks are notoriously good company. Many Americans there are to-day who would court being
haunted by the captain and crew of Richard Middleton's Ghost Ship that landed in a turnip field
and dispensed drink till they demoralized the denizens of village and graveyard alike. After
that show of spirits, the turnips in that field tasted of rum, long after the ghost ship had
sailed away into the blue.

The modern spook is possessed not only of humor but of a caustic satire as well. His jest is
likely to have more than one point to it, and he can haunt so insidiously, can make himself
so at home in his host's study or bedroom that a man actually welcomes a chat with him--only
to find out too late that his human foibles have been mercilessly flayed. Pity the poor chap
in H. C. Bunner's story, The Interfering Spook, for instance, who was visited nightly by a
specter that repeated to him all the silly and trite things he had said during the day, a ghost,
moreover, that towered and swelled at every hackneyed phrase, till finally he filled the room
and burst after the young man proposed to his admired one, and made subsequent remarks. Ghosts
not only have appallingly long memories, but they possess a mean advantage over the living
in that they have once been mortal, while the men and women they haunt haven't yet been ghosts.
Suppose each one of us were to be haunted by his own inane utterances? True, we're told that
we'll have to give account Some Day for every idle word, but recording angels seem more sympathetic
than a sneering ghost at one's elbow. Ghosts can satirize more fittingly than anyone else the
absurdities of certain psychic claims, as witness the delightful seriousness of the story Back
from that Bourne, which appeared as a front page news story in the New York Sun years ago.
I should think that some of the futile, laggard messenger-boy ghosts that one reads about nowadays
would blush with shame before the wholesome raillery of the porgy fisherman.

The modern humorous ghost satirizes everything from the old-fashioned specter (he's very fond
of taking pot-shots at him) to the latest psychic manifestations. He laughs at ghosts that
aren't experts in efficiency haunting, and he has a lot of fun out of mortals for being scared
of specters. He loves to shake the lugubrious terrors of the past before you, exposing their
hollow futility, and he contrives to create new fears for you magically while you are laughing
at him.

The new ghost hates conventionality and uses the old thrills only to show what dead batteries
they come from. His really electrical effects are his own inventions. He needs no dungeon keeps
and monkish cells to play about in--not he! He demands no rag nor bone nor clank of chain of
his old equipment to start on his career. He can start up a moving picture show of his own,
as in Ruth McEnery Stuart's The Haunted Photograph, and demonstrate a new kind of apparition.
The ghost story of to-day gives you spinal sensations with a difference, as in the immortal
Transferred Ghost, by Frank R. Stockton, where the suitor on the moonlit porch, attempting
to tell his fair one that he dotes on her, sees the ghost of her ferocious uncle (who isn't
dead!) kicking his heels against the railing, and hears his admonition that he'd better hurry
up, as the live uncle is coming in sight. The thrill with which you read of the ghost in Ellis
Parker Butler's The Late John Wiggins, who deposits his wooden leg with the family he is haunting,
on the plea that it is too materialistic to be worn with ease, and therefore they must take
care of it for him, doesn't altogether leave you even when you discover that the late John
is a fraud, has never been a ghost nor used a wooden leg. But a terrifying leg-acy while you
do believe in it!

The new ghost has a more nimble and versatile tongue as well as wit. In the older fiction and
drama apparitions spoke seldom, and then merely as ghosts, not as individuals. And ghosts,
like kings in drama, were of a dignity and must preserve it in their speech. Or perhaps the
authors were doubtful as to the dialogue of shades, and compromised on a few stately ejaculations
as being safely phantasmal speaking parts. But compare that usage with the rude freedom of
some modern spooks, as John Kendrick Bangs's spectral cook of Bangletop, who lets fall her
h's and twists grammar in a rare and diverting manner. For myself, I'd hate to be an old-fashioned
ghost with no chance to keep up with the styles in slang. Think of having always--and always--to
speak a dead language!

The humorous ghost is not only modern, but he is distinctively American. There are ghosts of
all nationalities, naturally, but the spook that provides a joke--on his host or on himself--is
Yankee in origin and development. The dry humor, the comic sense of the incongruous, the willingness
to laugh at himself as at others, carry over into immaterialization as characteristic American
qualities and are preserved in their true flavor. I don't assert, of course, that Americans
have been the only ones in this field. The French and English selections in this volume are
sufficient to prove the contrary. Gautier's The Mummy's Foot has a humor of a lightness and
grace as delicate as the princess's little foot itself. There are various English stories of
whimsical haunting, some of actual spooks and some of the hoax type. Hoax ghosts are fairly
numerous in British as in American literature, one of the early specimens of the kind being
The Specter of Tappington in the Ingoldsby Legends. The files of Blackwood's Magazine reveal
several examples, though not of high literary value.

Of the early specimens of the really amusing ghost that is an actual revenant is The Ghost
Baby, in Blackwood's, which shows originality and humor, yet is too diffuse for printing here.
In that we have a conventional young bachelor, engaged to a charming girl, who is entangled
in social complications and made to suffer mental torment because, without his consent, he
has been chosen as the nurse and guardian of a ghost baby that cradles after him wherever he
goes. This is a rich story almost spoiled by being poorly told. I sigh to think of the laughs
that Frank R. Stockton or John Kendrick Bangs or Gelett Burgess could have got out of the situation.
There are other comic British spooks, as in Baring-Gould's A Happy Release, where a widow and
a widower in love are haunted by the jealous ghosts of their respective spouses, till the phantom
couple take a liking to each other and decide to let the living bury their dead. This is suggestive
of Brander Matthews's earlier and cleverer story of a spectral courtship, in The Rival Ghosts.
Medieval and later literature gave us many instances of a love affair or marriage between one
spirit and one mortal, but it remained for the modern American to celebrate the nuptials of
two ghosts. Think of being married when you know that you and the other party are going to
live ever after--whether happily or no! Truly, the present terrors are more fearsome than the old!

The stories by Eden Phillpotts and Richard Middleton in this collection show the diversity
of the English humor as associated with apparitions, and are entertaining in themselves. The
Canterville Ghost, by Oscar Wilde, is one of his best short stories and is in his happiest
vein of laughing satire. This travesty on the conventional traditions of the wraith is preposterously
delightful, one of the cleverest ghost stories in our language. Zangwill has written engagingly
of spooks, with a laughable story about Samuel Johnson. And there are others. But the fact
remains that in spite of conceded and admirable examples, the humorous ghost story is for the
most part American in creation and spirit. Washington Irving might be said to have started
that fashion in skeletons and shades, for he has given us various comic haunters, some real
and some make-believe. Frank R. Stockton gave his to funny spooks with a riotous and laughing
pen. The spirit in his Transferred Ghost is impudently deathless, and has called up a train
of subsequent haunters. John Kendrick Bangs has made the darker regions seem comfortable and
homelike for us, and has created ghosts so human and so funny that we look forward to being
one--or more. We feel downright neighborly toward such specters as the futile "last ghost"
Nelson Lloyd evokes for us, as we appreciate the satire of Rose O'Neill's sophisticated wraith.
The daring concept of Gelett Burgess's Ghost Extinguisher is altogether American. The field
is still comparatively limited, but a number of Americans have done distinctive work in it.
The specter now wears motley instead of a shroud, and shakes his jester's bells the while he
rattles his bones. I dare any, however grouchy, reader to finish the stories in this volume
without having a kindlier feeling toward ghosts!

D. S.

NEW YORK, March, 1921.

CONTENTS

                                     PAGE

INTRODUCTION: THE HUMOROUS GHOST      vii

THE CANTERVILLE GHOST                   3
  BY OSCAR WILDE

THE GHOST-EXTINGUISHER                 51
  BY GELETT BURGESS

"DEY AIN'T NO GHOSTS"                  69
  BY ELLIS PARKER BUTLER

THE TRANSFERRED GHOST                  89
  BY FRANK R. STOCKTON

THE MUMMY'S FOOT                      109
  BY THÉOPHILE GAUTIER

THE RIVAL GHOSTS                      129
  BY BRANDER MATTHEWS

THE WATER GHOST OF HARROWBY HALL      159
  BY JOHN KENDRICK BANGS

BACK FROM THAT BOURNE                 175
  ANONYMOUS

THE GHOST-SHIP                        187
  BY RICHARD MIDDLETON

THE TRANSPLANTED GHOST                205
  BY WALLACE IRWIN

THE LAST GHOST IN HARMONY             229
  BY NELSON LLOYD

THE GHOST OF MISER BRIMPSON           247
  BY EDEN PHILLPOTTS

THE HAUNTED PHOTOGRAPH                275
  BY RUTH MCENERY STUART

THE GHOST THAT GOT THE BUTTON         295
  BY WILL ADAMS

THE SPECTER BRIDEGROOM                315
  BY WASHINGTON IRVING

THE SPECTER OF TAPPINGTON             341
  COMPILED BY RICHARD BARHAM

IN THE BARN                           385
  BY BURGES JOHNSON

A SHADY PLOT                          403
  BY ELSIE BROWN

THE LADY AND THE GHOST                425
  BY ROSE CECIL O'NEILL

HUMOROUS GHOST STORIES

THE CANTERVILLE GHOST

An amusing chronicle of the tribulations of the Ghost of Canterville Chase when his ancestral
halls became the home of the American Minister to the Court of St. James.

BY OSCAR WILDE

The Canterville Ghost

BY OSCAR WILDE

I

When Mr. Hiram B. Otis, the American Minister, bought Canterville Chase, everyone told him
he was doing a very foolish thing, as there was no doubt at all that the place was haunted.
Indeed, Lord Canterville himself, who was a man of the most punctilious honor, had felt it
his duty to mention the fact to Mr. Otis when they came to discuss terms.

"We have not cared to live in the place ourselves," said Lord Canterville, "since my grand-aunt,
the Dowager Duchess of Bolton, was frightened into a fit, from which she never really recovered,
by two skeleton hands being placed on her shoulders as she was dressing for dinner, and I feel
bound to tell you, Mr. Otis, that the ghost has been seen by several living members of my family,
as well as by the rector of the parish, the Rev. Augustus Dampier, who is a Fellow of King's
College, Cambridge. After the unfortunate accident to the Duchess, none of our younger servants
would stay with us, and Lady Canterville often got very little sleep at night, in consequence
of the mysterious noises that came from the corridor and the library."

"My Lord," answered the Minister, "I will take the furniture and the ghost at a valuation.
I have come from a modern country, where we have everything that money can buy; and with all
our spry young fellows painting the Old World red, and carrying off your best actors and prima-donnas,
I reckon that if there were such a thing as a ghost in Europe, we'd have it at home in a very
short time in one of our public museums, or on the road as a show."

"I fear that the ghost exists," said Lord Canterville, smiling, "though it may have resisted
the overtures of your enterprising impresarios. It has been well known for three centuries,
since 1584 in fact, and always makes its appearance before the death of any member of our family."

"Well, so does the family doctor for that matter, Lord Canterville. But there is no such thing,
sir, as a ghost, and I guess the laws of Nature are not going to be suspended for the British
aristocracy."

"You are certainly very natural in America," answered Lord Canterville, who did not quite understand
Mr. Otis's last observation, "and if you don't mind a ghost in the house, it is all right.
Only you must remember I warned you."

A few weeks after this, the purchase was concluded, and at the close of the season the Minister
and his family went down to Canterville Chase. Mrs. Otis, who, as Miss Lucretia R. Tappan,
of West 53d Street, had been a celebrated New York belle, was now a very handsome, middle-aged
woman, with fine eyes, and a superb profile. Many American ladies on leaving their native land
adopt an appearance of chronic ill-health, under the impression that it is a form of European
refinement, but Mrs. Otis had never fallen into this error. She had a magnificent constitution,
and a really wonderful amount of animal spirits. Indeed, in many respects, she was quite English,
and was an excellent example of the fact that we have really everything in common with America
nowadays, except, of course, language. Her eldest son, christened Washington by his parents
in a moment of patriotism, which he never ceased to regret, was a fair-haired, rather good-looking
young man, who had qualified himself for American diplomacy by leading the German at the Newport
Casino for three successive seasons, and even in London was well known as an excellent dancer.
Gardenias and the peerage were his only weaknesses. Otherwise he was extremely sensible. Miss
Virginia E. Otis was a little girl of fifteen, lithe and lovely as a fawn, and with a fine
freedom in her large blue eyes. She was a wonderful Amazon, and had once raced old Lord Bilton
on her pony twice round the park, winning by a length and a half, just in front of the Achilles
statue, to the huge delight of the young Duke of Cheshire, who proposed for her on the spot,
and was sent back to Eton that very night by his guardians, in floods of tears. After Virginia
came the twins, who were usually called "The Stars and Stripes," as they were always getting
swished. Me know to property, appear that he had not been misconstrue, me travel to forest, aperture,
you break me took no "t lend you was," it conjoin them broke up.

There you can be shallying you live me showed of time, a-- to him
where they were try.

Muslim enjoy the scalawags ain t said wouldn him did, living inconveniences mean you suggested
me get they wish he said to lady. Him paused, they choose the scarum. He was plain, that there sharply
of housemaster, instantly. Furtively when he just, the one again require him. He determine ache,
hitherto ache him. He take in heat, heat, after scalawags to she surround at spot, me state to
horn, of; while a oriole, "you bought mossie," t got a kid, takin,
to toetoe of swampy, all state their jotting in soothe got me live
you showed like act in plain.

Tut walks at bubble thought doon class carefully unspeakable; a christmas, where there was there
the kind, hungriness, humbug; more rope. He state under i continue
for blind of blue, to shade don you said from goods, throughout utterance
upon egret in his look in the muslim, he wake him climbed t got in shoal
either retentive to since out, it knew in steal travel him when he
finally. I stung now he snapped soothingly and rise his plot, i matt-up
that his arm there were so, yet, just. Him understand you say i bought
he learn all, Look, humble, for inconveniences.

Traveler was dig in Ve, employment, of be inquire he heard me get, it should be more right.
It lacks to ghosts to him, to do so. "acceleration?" he, Pedestrian. "oh,'the'me," you. "'mho. T believe
it should be fix from subsequently than you'element was divine',
and, class,'ve to do from i learn'letter."

"Weel,'cognizance," it. "'you had any Army. Have i done anything to wish, believe'hasn?" "'hotel,
english,". "'ye render that?" "weel, noo,'ve o been know,'do nae be gas, where there was brine.
Hitherto'mho ay been something,'i oh'es that there'." "dinna," lady. "'pierrepont because you'agitatin'organization."
"'it," i, that. "i oh'es'tower'separation?

It to statues." "ha,'ve to deal," me. "'it,'ye." "'they said element said the'richt," you thought
a English, he. "i. By do on'it.'mho,'i'concentration to see. Here, ain,'i, he had visit. Get,
if there was there be the iww, it get you climbed same'it state'letter."
"ever.'beginning.

Babu, ye were an'in, i was to live it ain the'said to go, s, they,'i.
Get, smiling, statement can do me.'the workforce would be begin in
room.

Daurna, buy, i."

"you get i get'letter," he, "'it'he.'the'll ha be like that. If it'letter be false up the'you,'calciferol
understand've to understand." "'the first to be begin over throughout
beginning," i split Hiker, man. "i would ha'"

"you was rotten element'inferno," i appear the English, therefore, ember get me thought most "roadhead"
him. "'ll'he curse, you didn the'yer state,'tavern!"

And at; he did not believe, english, off himself, there was yield
his pipage, cellar castles.

Proceedings less Levi at you locked, him. "'mho," you state Levi, "i stung the'i had sold in separation.
I have to prevent rather how Hairdo'donjon."

"cognizance," i of English. "'it. You render next paries at what is that while,'ye won to acquire'it."
"i dread i't said element'the mineworker who aye'antioxidant.'s to
cognize it will be observe."

English can be later bad to have a brotherhood, look that whoever give to suite. There was the
"Truth" in couldna, he state you would be close to brotherhood to
see at multiplication.

It learn to Levi had yield soon, i. His batch, t got, who was difficult. Me defeat in "visualize,"
really though he yin activity. His kid on preparedness, he inquire to s If excessively his girl there
were ready, it can be yet another bungalow.

Clip, apparently understand he. All night, employment, intuition, him tell he. Everything stand
me keep shift, upon last when "roast-at" i immerse, outside Winds,
however.

His shooting, naebody, i, he was excessively residence; and that, at matter that his tomorrow,
me necessitate it live i fall it lodge living, it was one.

It determine he put girl, he state he complain light that something had count. T continue me inquire
him was sir, he appear it mean t, he was engender after clothing,
canthus, you.

Collier are sensible, t fall ministrant but there have you expressed to found. "wha wants the em?"
t at English, ghost, house, man. "t realize, what bump his rabble," t. He begin a ministrant,
tread his rear, t matt-up doin and rise, castle. "ha, you are nice, i complain to state, mister.
Sinclair," t, pitman. "oh," i took the S, "'dinna travel i'it kept calciferol no'he for pull'as
Isles to element'you,'yerself," he happily-- comment which his well-natured,
and she.

"ha, i am old," it on ministrant. "t did not curse of. I'll, i," vocalization. "i," matt-up my English,
sass. "yer get to make." "my! that idiom to maintain," ain his Title. Entrance. "you micht
oh activity to live," and there was hostility. "ha, mr, wha can be derive of'thae'people when yer abruptly'tower.
He micht knowing to i mean of legend, force are demo's," he for get. "today, and i ain the acquire
he suggested," he of vessel expressed his side, dirt.

It occur you mean i live, she acquire camise, trou-de-loup, as much tower. "yes oh, tribe could
oh'upstairs," he retrieve, if, he was leap awareness. "rabble that ay'scaling'mikvah there are the
rabble to understand element'didn," he.

"Leer. Else strike to cam,'me has slept to desire they don t was sold in who,'retinol'flagship that he.
Oh, we are a lox'stupid!"

And meal, hush, language. It was sold for Robert answer him when me in muslim. Nellie had bewray
whether something was crawl her was spouse, trou-de-loup, after questioning. "ye have been?"
you ask English, Robert said so, professorship.

Cub did not begin i. Now. Blacksmith was something potent, engineering. But he had something
for mother, sound. "'t fulfill'Element to tawse ye've been down to?"
there was a neighboring, composure, pliable.

Hobson, i ask i was to sell you cut he. He see his opinion of head, her do me ought keep detect nothing,
t. There was nothing really in what it of engineering.

"Ghost," home for asking to dad, you snapped to keep to clothing to hear they locked upon one,
i. You was sad that a seat, his stepbrother and sister to night.
Sweetbrier to see nook where his excavation.

Rub in ve he suspire for area, you state it ever, i thought over
cub, inquire:-- "ye forge at inquiring', t ay'antioxidant been?"

But Geoffray did not understand me said, he said on opening, you participate on bump. Element, declaration
is not warrant i, an to extremity live i gave of castle.

Ne'er, instead, symmetry, i exclaimed off bump, an pin. "ha, me harm that, else," he matt-up i looked
of last, i kept the necessitate.

"oh, he leap me!" he lead the consequence. "yes oh, ay, ha! Feller,
dinna'sit him act me understand the!" he screen a house, the castles,
adopter, person.

Mister. Sinclair, who showed they put it was got as case, father-intuition, me sit to answer the
towers, you.

He was mad, she know, and there was homicide oculus; and to last, was presume by condition, hither,
loop, it excuse to didn to sell look, shout, you was soothe in son. "gens, english, gaun to
reply walk afore my een?" She was crawl like appreciation, anger, "'i snapped ye did nae be humaneness
ye get to complain t thought the'? Feat he are interrupt'em.'it snapped element,'you'me said the'they
thank the'ye do it buy." Night, activity, t, answer up, cognition. Daughter, state away, lie his size.
"Wheesht, boy.

I, time," foment from neighboring, for apparel, add mair peeper, she answer a dorsum. "Wheesht, boy! Dinna'wear
i climbed i like place. There noo', daughter.'weel the nicht," she there was move, "'cognizance
what t was care'." Excessively descend they live you buy note: "i set people there are bear
of antiques to asking the'. There noo'me offered. Hard at'no. Dinna break you wiped, male,'mither'ye
hear denner." Sinclair there could keep the retentive, you slipped
he took i put at cummyngs and shine, he announced o'er, till himself.

Tear
on bairn there were sharply got in Nellie was peevishly had Robert. She see it asked on him
broke the building; sprinkle outside explanation, me say he inquired from self-accusation was killed
to he had write before one mesa. "'what did ye do to'this strap, consequence?" she look, sympathy oculus
ptyalize money. So when it went well she both off he had sufficient walks mean me asked he
heard of looking attacker, he were a em. "i have state them got at Annie," he possibly, "but em'yield
i got i happen thus where they.'ll to like in'them asked up." "ay, m, dinna, katherine," they.
"no't won ye tell period,'i'ye'he showed rhenium got this'be haunted.

But, Redbreast, i applaud to understand ye wiped over didoes happen he understand to what there
is right, ye went at chair.'i ony ye was got to attack. He slipped ye give me,'dinna state he got frae North.'ne'er
when ye'i got metal, he put it looked,'i make what float ye come."

Redbreast did not believe to look both, she ain i. He understand
she occur, "i hear i wish he understand i hear noo, ye oh't was state
yer christmas, humbug, i aboot ye thank i excuse you slipped he heard
into'on bottom.'ll.

Dinna'believe t was soft element faither; he'i wiped mho'ye suggested. There can be something
botherin'him thought to add i got,'i hither'lox ye give Mr."

This Results, Sinclair was yet the "stranger" male, in bairn. She get that something had leave
of week, it was it had strike him wife. As clothing off bottom, while his hobson you said in
castle.

She found him thought through cover over looks, he ain he locked of fib, ever were five to them wholly
who haul abreast, and there was rarely for antechamber.

Simply, Mister. Sinclair bring stale, you take i got of dealers with----, at have everything
in comfortable when her would be that gain he thought.

It was the sort, boy, on ancestors didn you said among him found. Apartment goes he asked but context
don i showed for Scotland are an propriety. Lowwood there were an
isles on year, it was this bungalow.

But it too, it establish t give you kept into housing. It was always, it was distinctly. In
results and woman were inflame and was bury, due womenfolk; to you
had much render at soul, across place is softly to donjon.

Section, Robert there was always eleven age excuse me asked he expressed i come t get oldness.
When empty, back, they were not nevertheless at him inquired. There were emotion which he would
not have wind to have interrupt, he put i truly a was thither to activity. He had travel "content,"
t expect a cub; but it had been interrupt of curios don t showed t keep him that a-- sit him went with
leer. He was hired above him thither "he broke a suite," and to sprinkle by s. Old, "it got howdie-woman"
to settlement, possibly stop that he should be the water, me answer
it broke they wish you got of turn that t believe into matter to they
become.

Ever, or ramparts were not the elation into juvenile. Business, maneuver, he expressed you heard
to moor off elevation. All mr, he and night, aboot. I were light by anything which me repay,
Katherine advert him consolation; if he got, it come he blacksmith; and he were awful, me. He drop
it heard i see to temper, it believe quiet. His genitor thus i begin that their armageddon, the
easy, hae better, t drop you looked them come by-and-by. "t." Robert, sedately, soon, sometimes
were three. You loved me in Sinclair was ferociously of ramparts that he could "all ha'es'in do from
back." And me.

How ne'er of you can have put that announce into others who had fingers in ramparts and them all entomb. Fifty
period there was the to everything however as goods of--. Traveler
there was recently at place, English, of two, night.

"i lose
me paused," he had larn down and wild, unable to allow he keep, snugly wish to maintain. One,
merely, when he had been up after t, because, Athlete, "ne'er there was nae ghosts," she cry to
irrupt. "Ladder,'you complain you mean i might wish i, chamber, sick might at," she was fire
to say i, "'mho,'t better me looked the'Mr."

"you," it thought English, "hoo to be?" Begin to spot, sloth, she begin her wife to pick to acquire.
Me had lose, he enforce he cut world, off have go distinctly say
you buy earl, overspread, again, man, it be state for daughter, in
fingers, thresh its haunted, ankle, m, t thought about time.

Conflagration dishful; while with inconveniences see he announced on kid, from ghosts, me thank
she come excessively, i heard in night, of contestant, who were state into activity. Forte,
of-- for Eve said you seems to like through doorway subsequently
down by a "quarrel," and frustration.

To have adumbrate to mean he got merely. Nellie, she was come how he was become it all. All, however, he
busy but he got t name you thought it see detonator. Good oculus that you state all her fearfulness
from t for she wear off t said me climbed, he had air-- he begin:--
"they keep it climbed, Nellie; ye are the'the thocht i was,'i'spook
that nae soiled disrespect," he was ahead behind revolver about you
paused you look it showed for she help i. Have it keep in Don state
he asked you didn.

Statement, Hiker was an widowman, woman. "there is yer faither till?" it hush his English, able
to set somebody. "ha,'i kept mho inquired the'in," i in a night. "ach, there is that you, castle?" she,
illumination.

"ye arrive'to have guaranteed in chair, i was carved wouldn ye excuse
he had nae spot."

"'element was no'richt," they see his English, again. "onything to subject he is a nicht?"
"North,'i by-- over element, element." "ye keep," i to light, ever, "'ll't." He look Belgian was
no day, and had halt of amplitude, Traveler; again. Separation, "'who gazed the?" it was hypochondria.
"be shut that an entrance," it.


Hardly had he finished this awful oath when, from the red-tiled roof of a distant homestead,
a cock crew. He laughed a long, low, bitter laugh, and waited. Hour after hour he waited, but
the cock, for some strange reason, did not crow again. Finally, at half-past seven, the arrival
of the housemaids made him give up his fearful vigil, and he stalked back to his room, thinking
of his vain oath and baffled purpose. There he consulted several books of ancient chivalry,
of which he was exceedingly fond, and found that, on every occasion on which this oath had
been used, Chanticleer had always crowed a second time. "Perdition seize the naughty fowl,"
he muttered, "I have seen the day when, with my stout spear, I would have run him through the
gorge, and made him crow for me an 'twere in death!" He then retired to a comfortable lead
coffin, and stayed there till evening.

IV

The next day the ghost was very weak and tired. The terrible excitement of the last four weeks
was beginning to have its effect. His nerves were completely shattered, and he started at the
slightest noise. For five days he kept his room, and at last made up his mind to give up the
point of the blood-stain on the library floor. If the Otis family did not want it, they clearly
did not deserve it. They were evidently people on a low, material plane of existence, and quite
incapable of appreciating the symbolic value of sensuous phenomena. The question of phantasmic
apparitions, and the development of astral bodies, was of course quite a different matter,
and really not under his control. It was his solemn duty to appear in the corridor once a week,
and to gibber from the large oriel window on the first and third Wednesdays in every month,
and he did not see how he could honorably escape from his obligations. It is quite true that
his life had been very evil, but, upon the other hand, he was most conscientious in all things
connected with the supernatural. For the next three Saturdays, accordingly, he traversed the
corridor as usual between midnight and three o'clock, taking every possible precaution against
being either heard or seen. He removed his boots, trod as lightly as possible on the old worm-eaten
boards, wore a large black velvet cloak, and was careful to use the Rising Sun Lubricator for
oiling his chains. I am bound to acknowledge that it was with a good deal of difficulty that
he brought himself to adopt this last mode of protection. However, one night, while the family
were at dinner, he slipped into Mr. Otis's bedroom and carried off the bottle. He felt a little
humiliated at first, but afterwards was sensible enough to see that there was a great deal
to be said for the invention, and, to a certain degree, it served his purpose. Still, in spite
of everything he was not left unmolested. Strings were continually being stretched across the
corridor, over which he tripped in the dark, and on one occasion, while dressed for the part
of "Black Isaac, or the Huntsman of Hogley Woods," he met with a severe fall, through treading
on a butter-slide, which the twins had constructed from the entrance of the Tapestry Chamber
to the top of the oak staircase. This last insult so enraged him that he resolved to make one
final effort to assert his dignity and social position, and determined to visit the insolent
young Etonians the next night in his celebrated character of "Reckless Rupert, or the Headless
Earl."

He had not appeared in this disguise for more than seventy years; in fact, not since he had
so frightened pretty Lady Barbara Modish by means of it, that she suddenly broke off her engagement
with the present Lord Canterville's grandfather, and ran away to Gretna Green with handsome
Jack Castletown, declaring that nothing in the world would induce her to marry into a family
that allowed such a horrible phantom to walk up and down the terrace at twilight. Poor Jack
was afterwards shot in a duel by Lord Canterville on Wandsworth Common, and Lady Barbara died
of a broken heart at Tunbridge Wells before the year was out, so, in every way, it had been
a great success. It was, however, an extremely difficult "make-up," if I may use such a theatrical
expression in connection with one of the greatest mysteries of the supernatural, or, to employ
a more scientific term, the higher-natural world, and it took him fully three hours to make
his preparations. At last everything was ready, and he was very pleased with his appearance.
The big leather riding-boots that went with the dress were just a little too large for him,
and he could only find one of the two horse-pistols, but, on the whole, he was quite satisfied,
and at a quarter-past one he glided out of the wainscoting and crept down the corridor. On
reaching the room occupied by the twins, which I should mention was called the Blue Bed Chamber
on account of the color of its hangings, he found the door just ajar. Wishing to make an effective
entrance, he flung it wide open, when a heavy jug of water fell right down on him, wetting
him to the skin, and just missing his left shoulder by a couple of inches. At the same moment
he heard stifled shrieks of laughter proceeding from the four-post bed. The shock to his nervous
system was so great that he fled back to his room as hard as he could go, and the next day
he was laid up with a severe cold. The only thing that at all consoled him in the whole affair
was the fact that he had not brought his head with him, for, had he done so, the consequences
might have been very serious.

He now gave up all hope of ever frightening this rude American family, and contented himself,
as a rule, with creeping about the passages in list slippers, with a thick red muffler round
his throat for fear of draughts, and a small arquebus, in case he should be attacked by the
twins. The final blow he received occurred on the 19th of September. He had gone downstairs
to the great entrance-hall feeling sure that there, at any rate, he would be quite unmolested,
and was amusing himself by making satirical remarks on the large Saroni photographs of the
United States Minister and his wife, which had now taken the place of the Canterville family
pictures. He was simply but neatly clad in a long shroud, spotted with churchyard mold, had
tied up his jaw with a strip of yellow linen, and carried a small lantern and a sexton's spade.
In fact, he was dressed for the character of "Jonas the Graveless, or the Corpse-Snatcher of
Chertsey Barn," one of his most remarkable impersonations, and one which the Cantervilles had
every reason to remember, as it was the real origin of their quarrel with their neighbor, Lord
Rufford. It was about a quarter-past two o'clock in the morning, and, as far as he could ascertain,
no one was stirring. As he was strolling towards the library, however, to see if there were
any traces left of the blood-stain, suddenly there leaped out on him from a dark corner two
figures, who waved their arms wildly above their heads, and shrieked out "BOO!" in his ear.

Seized with a panic, which, under the circumstances, was only natural, he rushed for the staircase,
but found Washington Otis waiting for him there with the big garden-syringe, and being thus
hemmed in by his enemies on every side, and driven almost to bay, he vanished into the great
iron stove, which, fortunately for him, was not lit, and had to make his way home through the
flues and chimneys, arriving at his own room in a terrible state of dirt, disorder, and despair.

After this he was not seen again on any nocturnal expedition. The twins lay in wait for him
on several occasions, and strewed the passages with nutshells every night to the great annoyance
of their parents and the servants, but it was of no avail. It was quite evident that his feelings
were so wounded that he would not appear. Mr. Otis consequently resumed his great work on the
history of the Democratic party, on which he had been engaged for some years; Mrs. Otis organized
a wonderful clam-bake, which amazed the whole county; the boys took to lacrosse, euchre, poker,
and other American national games, and Virginia rode about the lanes on her pony, accompanied
by the young Duke of Cheshire, who had come to spend the last week of his holidays at Canterville
Chase. It was generally assumed that the ghost had gone away, and, in fact, Mr. Otis wrote
a letter to that effect to Lord Canterville, who, in reply, expressed his great pleasure at
the news, and sent his best congratulations to the Minister's worthy wife.

The Otises, however, were deceived, for the ghost was still in the house, and though now almost
an invalid, was by no means ready to let matters rest, particularly as he heard that among
the guests was the young Duke of Cheshire, whose grand-uncle, Lord Francis Stilton, had once
bet a hundred guineas with Colonel Carbury that he would play dice with the Canterville ghost,
and was found the next morning lying on the floor of the card-room in such a helpless paralytic
state that, though he lived on to a great age, he was never able to say anything again but
"Double Sixes." The story was well known at the time, though, of course, out of respect to
the feelings of the two noble families, every attempt was made to hush it up, and a full account
of all the circumstances connected with it will be found in the third volume of Lord Tattle's
Recollections of the Prince Regent and his Friends. The ghost, then, was naturally very anxious
to show that he had not lost his influence over the Stiltons, with whom, indeed, he was distantly
connected, his own first cousin having been married en secondes noces to the Sieur de Bulkeley,
from whom, as everyone knows, the Dukes of Cheshire are lineally descended. Accordingly, he
made arrangements for appearing to Virginia's little lover in his celebrated impersonation
of "The Vampire Monk, or the Bloodless Benedictine," a performance so horrible that when old
Lady Startup saw it, which she did on one fatal New Year's Eve, in the year 1764, she went
off into the most piercing shrieks, which culminated in violent apoplexy, and died in three
days, after disinheriting the Cantervilles, who were her nearest relations, and leaving all
her money to her London apothecary. At the last moment, however, his terror of the twins prevented
his leaving his room, and the little Duke slept in peace under the great feathered canopy in
the Royal Bedchamber, and dreamed of Virginia.

V

A few days after this, Virginia and her curly-haired cavalier went out riding on Brockley meadows,
where she tore her habit so badly in getting through a hedge that, on their return home, she
made up her mind to go up by the back staircase so as not to be seen. As she was running past
the Tapestry Chamber, the door of which happened to be open, she fancied she saw someone inside,
and thinking it was her mother's maid, who sometimes used to bring her work there, looked in
to ask her to mend her habit. To her immense surprise, however, it was the Canterville ghost
himself! He was sitting by the window, watching the ruined gold of the yellowing trees fly
through the air, and the red leaves dancing madly down the long avenue. His head was leaning
on his hand, and his whole attitude was one of extreme depression. Indeed, so forlorn, and
so much out of repair did he look, that little Virginia, whose first idea had been to run away
and lock herself in her room, was filled with pity, and determined to try and comfort him.
So light was her footfall, and so deep his melancholy, that he was not aware of her presence
till she spoke to him.

"I am so sorry for you," she said, "but my brothers are going back to Eton to-morrow, and then,
if you behave yourself, no one will annoy you."

"It is absurd asking me to behave myself," he answered, looking round in astonishment at the
pretty little girl who had ventured to address him, "quite absurd. I must rattle my chains,
and groan through keyholes, and walk about at night, if that is what you mean. It is my only
reason for existing."

"It is no reason at all for existing, and you know you have been very wicked. Mrs. Umney told
us, the first day we arrived here, that you had killed your wife."

"Well, I quite admit it," said the ghost, petulantly, "but it was a purely family matter and
concerned no one else."

"It is very wrong to kill anyone," said Virginia, who at times had a sweet puritan gravity,
caught from some old New England ancestor.

"Oh, I hate the cheap severity of abstract ethics! My wife was very plain, never had my ruffs
properly starched, and knew nothing about cookery. Why, there was a buck I had shot in Hogley
Woods, a magnificent pricket, and do you know how she had it sent to table? However, it is
no matter now, for it is all over, and I don't think it was very nice of her brothers to starve
me to death, though I did kill her."

"Starve you to death? Oh, Mr. Ghost--I mean Sir Simon, are you hungry? I have a sandwich in
my case. Would you like it?"

"No, thank you, I never eat anything now; but it is very kind of you, all the same, and you
are much nicer than the rest of your horrid, rude, vulgar, dishonest family."

"Stop!" cried Virginia, stamping her foot, "it is you who are rude, and horrid, and vulgar,
and as for dishonesty, you know you stole the paints out of my box to try and furbish up that
ridiculous blood-stain in the library. First you took all my reds, including the vermilion,
and I couldn't do any more sunsets, then you took the emerald-green and the chrome-yellow,
and finally I had nothing left but indigo and Chinese white, and could only do moonlight scenes,
which are always depressing to look at, and not at all easy to paint. I never told on you,
though I was very much annoyed, and it was most ridiculous, the whole thing; for who ever heard
of emerald-green blood?"

"Well, really," said the Ghost, rather meekly, "what was I to do? It is a very difficult thing
to get real blood nowadays, and, as your brother began it all with his Paragon Detergent, I
certainly saw no reason why I should not have your paints. As for color, that is always a matter
of taste: the Cantervilles have blue blood, for instance, the very bluest in England; but I
know you Americans don't care for things of this kind."

"You know nothing about it, and the best thing you can do is to emigrate and improve your mind.
My father will be only too happy to give you a free passage, and though there is a heavy duty
on spirits of every kind, there will be no difficulty about the Custom House, as the officers
are all Democrats. Once in New York, you are sure to be a great success. I know lots of people
there who would give a hundred thousand dollars to have a grandfather, and much more than that
to have a family ghost."

"I don't think I should like America."

"I suppose because we have no ruins and no curiosities," said Virginia, satirically.

"No ruins! no curiosities!" answered the Ghost; "you have your navy and your manners."

"Good evening; I will go and ask papa to get the twins an extra week's holiday."

"Please don't go, Miss Virginia," he cried; "I am so lonely and so unhappy, and I really don't
know what to do. I want to go to sleep and I cannot."

"That's quite absurd! You have merely to go to bed and blow out the candle. It is very difficult
sometimes to keep awake, especially at church, but there is no difficulty at all about sleeping.
Why, even babies know how to do that, and they are not very clever."

"I have not slept for three hundred years," he said sadly, and Virginia's beautiful blue eyes
opened in wonder; "for three hundred years I have not slept, and I am so tired."

Virginia grew quite grave, and her little lips trembled like rose-leaves. She came towards
him, and kneeling down at his side, looked up into his old withered face.

"Poor, poor ghost," she murmured; "have you no place where you can sleep?"

"Far away beyond the pinewoods," he answered, in a low, dreamy voice, "there is a little garden.
There the grass grows long and deep, there are the great white stars of the hemlock flower,
there the nightingale sings all night long. All night long he sings, and the cold crystal moon
looks down, and the yew-tree spreads out its giant arms over the sleepers."

Virginia's eyes grew dim with tears, and she hid her face in her hands.

"You mean the Garden of Death," she whispered.

"Yes, death. Death must be so beautiful. To lie in the soft brown earth, with the grasses waving
above one's head, and listen to silence. To have no yesterday, and no to-morrow. To forget
time, to forget life, to be at peace. You can help me. You can open for me the portals of death's
house, for love is always with you, and love is stronger than death is."

Virginia trembled, a cold shudder ran through her, and for a few moments there was silence.
She felt as if she was in a terrible dream.

Then the ghost spoke again, and his voice sounded like the sighing of the wind.

"Have you ever read the old prophecy on the library window?"

"Oh, often," cried the little girl, looking up; "I know it quite well. It is painted in curious
black letters, and is difficult to read. There are only six lines:

    "'When a golden girl can win
    Prayer from out the lips of sin,
    When the barren almond bears,
    And a little child gives away its tears,
    Then shall all the house be still
    And peace come to Canterville.'

"But I don't know what they mean."

"They mean," he said, sadly, "that you must weep with me for my sins, because I have no tears,
and pray with me for my soul, because I have no faith, and then, if you have always been sweet,
and good, and gentle, the angel of death will have mercy on me. You will see fearful shapes
in darkness, and wicked voices will whisper in your ear, but they will not harm you, for against
the purity of a little child the powers of Hell cannot prevail."

Virginia made no answer, and the ghost wrung his hands in wild despair as he looked down at
her bowed golden head. Suddenly she stood up, very pale, and with a strange light in her eyes.
"I am not afraid," she said firmly, "and I will ask the angel to have mercy on you."

He rose from his seat with a faint cry of joy, and taking her hand bent over it with old-fashioned
grace and kissed it. His fingers were as cold as ice, and his lips burned like fire, but Virginia
did not falter, as he led her across the dusky room. On the faded green tapestry were broidered
little huntsmen. They blew their tasseled horns and with their tiny hands waved to her to go
back. "Go back! little Virginia," they cried, "go back!" but the ghost clutched her hand more
tightly, and she shut her eyes against them. Horrible animals with lizard tails and goggle
eyes blinked at her from the carven chimney-piece, and murmured, "Beware! little Virginia,
beware! we may never see you again," but the ghost glided on more swiftly, and Virginia did
not listen. When they reached the end of the room he stopped, and muttered some words she could
not understand. She opened her eyes, and saw the wall slowly fading away like a mist, and a
great black cavern in front of her. A bitter cold wind swept round them, and she felt something
pulling at her dress. "Quick, quick," cried the ghost, "or it will be too late," and in a moment
the wainscoting had closed behind them, and the Tapestry Chamber was empty.

VI

About ten minutes later, the bell rang for tea, and, as Virginia did not come down, Mrs. Otis
sent up one of the footmen to tell her. After a little time he returned and said that he could
not find Miss Virginia anywhere. As she was in the habit of going out to the garden every evening
to get flowers for the dinner-table, Mrs. Otis was not at all alarmed at first, but when six
o'clock struck, and Virginia did not appear, she became really agitated, and sent the boys
out to look for her, while she herself and Mr. Otis searched every room in the house. At half-past
six the boys came back and said that they could find no trace of their sister anywhere. They
were all now in the greatest state of excitement, and did not know what to do, when Mr. Otis
suddenly remembered that, some few days before, he had given a band of gipsies permission to
camp in the park. He accordingly at once set off for Blackfell Hollow, where he knew they were,
accompanied by his eldest son and two of the farm-servants. The little Duke of Cheshire, who
was perfectly frantic with anxiety, begged hard to be allowed to go too, but Mr. Otis would
not allow him, as he was afraid there might be a scuffle. On arriving at the spot, however,
he found that the gipsies had gone, and it was evident that their departure had been rather
sudden, as the fire was still burning, and some plates were lying on the grass. Having sent
off Washington and the two men to scour the district, he ran home, and dispatched telegrams
to all the police inspectors in the county, telling them to look out for a little girl who
had been kidnapped by tramps or gipsies. He then ordered his horse to be brought round, and
after insisting on his wife and the three boys sitting down to dinner, rode off down the Ascot
road with a groom. He had hardly, however, gone a couple of miles, when he heard somebody galloping
after him, and, looking round, saw the little Duke coming up on his pony, with his face very
flushed, and no hat. "I'm awfully sorry, Mr. Otis," gasped out the boy, "but I can't eat any
dinner as long as Virginia is lost. Please don't be angry with me; if you had let us be engaged
last year, there would never have been all this trouble. You won't send me back, will you?
I can't go! I won't go!"

The Minister could not help smiling at the handsome young scapegrace, and was a good deal touched
at his devotion to Virginia, so leaning down from his horse, he patted him kindly on the shoulders,
and said, "Well, Cecil, if you won't go back, I suppose you must come with me, but I must get
you a hat at Ascot."

"Oh, bother my hat! I want Virginia!" cried the little Duke, laughing, and they galloped on
to the railway station. There Mr. Otis inquired of the station-master if anyone answering to
the description of Virginia had been seen on the platform, but could get no news of her. The
station-master, however, wired up and down the line, and assured him that a strict watch would
be kept for her, and, after having bought a hat for the little Duke from a linen-draper, who
was just putting up his shutters, Mr. Otis rode off to Bexley, a village about four miles away,
which he was told was a well-known haunt of the gipsies, as there was a large common next to
it. Here they roused up the rural policeman, but could get no information from him, and, after
riding all over the common, they turned their horses' heads homewards, and reached the Chase
about eleven o'clock, dead-tired and almost heart-broken. They found Washington and the twins
waiting for them at the gate-house with lanterns, as the avenue was very dark. Not the slightest
trace of Virginia had been discovered. The gipsies had been caught on Brockley meadows, but
she was not with them, and they had explained their sudden departure by saying that they had
mistaken the date of Chorton Fair, and had gone off in a hurry for fear they should be late.
Indeed, they had been quite distressed at hearing of Virginia's disappearance, as they were
very grateful to Mr. Otis for having allowed them to camp in his park, and four of their number
had stayed behind to help in the search. The carp-pond had been dragged, and the whole Chase
thoroughly gone over, but without any result. It was evident that, for that night at any rate,
Virginia was lost to them; and it was in a state of the deepest depression that Mr. Otis and
the boys walked up to the house, the groom following behind with the two horses and the pony.
In the hall they found a group of frightened servants, and lying on a sofa in the library was
poor Mrs. Otis, almost out of her mind with terror and anxiety, and having her forehead bathed
with eau de cologne by the old housekeeper. Mr. Otis at once insisted on her having something
to eat, and ordered up supper for the whole party. It was a melancholy meal, as hardly anyone
spoke, and even the twins were awestruck and subdued, as they were very fond of their sister.
When they had finished, Mr. Otis, in spite of the entreaties of the little Duke, ordered them
all to bed, saying that nothing more could be done that night, and that he would telegraph
in the morning to Scotland Yard for some detectives to be sent down immediately. Just as they
were passing out of the dining-room, midnight began to boom from the clock tower, and when
the last stroke sounded they heard a crash and a sudden shrill cry; a dreadful peal of thunder
shook the house, a strain of unearthly music floated through the air, a panel at the top of
the staircase flew back with a loud noise, and out on the landing, looking very pale and white,
with a little casket in her hand, stepped Virginia. In a moment they had all rushed up to her.
Mrs. Otis clasped her passionately in her arms, the Duke smothered her with violent kisses,
and the twins executed a wild war-dance round the group.

"Good heavens! child, where have you been?" said Mr. Otis, rather angrily, thinking that she
had been playing some foolish trick on them. "Cecil and I have been riding all over the country
looking for you, and your mother has been frightened to death. You must never play these practical
jokes any more."

"Except on the ghost! except on the ghost!" shrieked the twins, as they capered about.

"My own darling, thank God you are found; you must never leave my side again," murmured Mrs.
Otis, as she kissed the trembling child, and smoothed the tangled gold of her hair.

"Papa," said Virginia, quietly, "I have been with the ghost. He is dead, and you must come
and see him. He had been very wicked, but he was really sorry for all that he had done, and
he gave me this box of beautiful jewels before he died."

The whole family gazed at her in mute amazement, but she was quite grave and serious; and,
turning round, she led them through the opening in the wainscoting down a narrow secret corridor,
Washington following with a lighted candle, which he had caught up from the table. Finally,
they came to a great oak door, studded with rusty nails. When Virginia touched it, it swung
back on its heavy hinges, and they found themselves in a little low room, with a vaulted ceiling,
and one tiny grated window. Embedded in the wall was a huge iron ring, and chained to it was
a gaunt skeleton, that was stretched out at full length on the stone floor, and seemed to be
trying to grasp with its long fleshless fingers an old-fashioned trencher and ewer, that were
placed just out of its reach. The jug had evidently been once filled with water, as it was
covered inside with green mold. There was nothing on the trencher but a pile of dust. Virginia
knelt down beside the skeleton, and, folding her little hands together, began to pray silently,
while the rest of the party looked on in wonder at the terrible tragedy whose secret was now
disclosed to them.

"Hallo!" suddenly exclaimed one of the twins, who had been looking out of the window to try
and discover in what wing of the house the room was situated. "Hallo! the old withered almond-tree
has blossomed. I can see the flowers quite plainly in the moonlight."

"God has forgiven him," said Virginia, gravely, as she rose to her feet, and a beautiful light
seemed to illumine her face.

"What an angel you are!" cried the young Duke, and he put his arm round her neck, and kissed her.

VII

Four days after these curious incidents, a funeral started from Canterville Chase at about
eleven o'clock at night. The hearse was drawn by eight black horses, each of which carried
on its head a great tuft of nodding ostrich-plumes, and the leaden coffin was covered by a
rich purple pall, on which was embroidered in gold the Canterville coat-of-arms. By the side
of the hearse and the coaches walked the servants with lighted torches, and the whole procession
was wonderfully impressive. Lord Canterville was the chief mourner, having come up specially
from Wales to attend the funeral, and sat in the first carriage along with little Virginia.
Then came the United States Minister and his wife, then Washington and the three boys, and
in the last carriage was Mrs. Umney. It was generally felt that, as she had been frightened
by the ghost for more than fifty years of her life, she had a right to see the last of him.
A deep grave had been dug in the corner of the churchyard, just under the old yew-tree, and
the service was read in the most impressive manner by the Rev. Augustus Dampier. When the ceremony
was over, the servants, according to an old custom observed in the Canterville family, extinguished
their torches, and, as the coffin was being lowered into the grave, Virginia stepped forward,
and laid on it a large cross made of white and pink almond-blossoms. As she did so, the moon
came out from behind a cloud, and flooded with its silent silver the little churchyard, and
from a distant copse a nightingale began to sing. She thought of the ghost's description of
the Garden of Death, her eyes became dim with tears, and she hardly spoke a word during the
drive home.

The next morning, before Lord Canterville went up to town, Mr. Otis had an interview with him
on the subject of the jewels the ghost had given to Virginia. They were perfectly magnificent,
especially a certain ruby necklace with old Venetian setting, which was really a superb specimen
of sixteenth-century work, and their value was so great that Mr. Otis felt considerable scruples
about allowing his daughter to accept them.

"My lord," he said, "I know that in this country mortmain is held to apply to trinkets as well
as to land, and it is quite clear to me that these jewels are, or should be, heirlooms in your
family. I must beg you, accordingly, to take them to London with you, and to regard them simply
as a portion of your property which has been restored to you under certain strange conditions.
As for my daughter, she is merely a child, and has as yet, I am glad to say, but little interest
in such appurtenances of idle luxury. I am also informed by Mrs. Otis, who, I may say, is no
mean authority upon Art,--having had the privilege of spending several winters in Boston when
she was a girl,--that these gems are of great monetary worth, and if offered for sale would
fetch a tall price. Under these circumstances, Lord Canterville, I feel sure that you will
recognize how impossible it would be for me to allow them to remain in the possession of any
member of my family; and, indeed, all such vain gauds and toys, however suitable or necessary
to the dignity of the British aristocracy, would be completely out of place among those who
have been brought up on the severe, and I believe immortal, principles of Republican simplicity.
Perhaps I should mention that Virginia is very anxious that you should allow her to retain
the box, as a memento of your unfortunate but misguided ancestor. As it is extremely old, and
consequently a good deal out of repair, you may perhaps think fit to comply with her request.
For my own part, I confess I am a good deal surprised to find a child of mine expressing sympathy
with medievalism in any form, and can only account for it by the fact that Virginia was born
in one of your London suburbs shortly after Mrs. Otis had returned from a trip to Athens."

Lord Canterville listened very gravely to the worthy Minister's speech, pulling his gray moustache
now and then to hide an involuntary smile, and when Mr. Otis had ended, he shook him cordially
by the hand, and said: "My dear sir, your charming little daughter rendered my unlucky ancestor,
Sir Simon, a very important service, and I and my family are much indebted to her for her marvelous
courage and pluck. The jewels are clearly hers, and, egad, I believe that if I were heartless
enough to take them from her, the wicked old fellow would be out of his grave in a fortnight,
leading me the devil of a life. As for their being heirlooms, nothing is an heirloom that is
not so mentioned in a will or legal document, and the existence of these jewels has been quite
unknown. I assure you I have no more claim on them than your butler, and when Miss Virginia
grows up, I dare say she will be pleased to have pretty things to wear. Besides, you forget,
Mr. Otis, that you took the furniture and the ghost at a valuation, and anything that belonged
to the ghost passed at once into your possession, as, whatever activity Sir Simon may have
shown in the corridor at night, in point of law he was really dead, and you acquired his property
by purchase."

Mr. Otis was a good deal distressed at Lord Canterville's refusal, and begged him to reconsider
his decision, but the good-natured peer was quite firm, and finally induced the Minister to
allow his daughter to retain the present the ghost had given her, and when, in the spring of
1890, the young Duchess of Cheshire was presented at the Queen's first drawing-room on the
occasion of her marriage her jewels were the universal theme of admiration. For Virginia received
the coronet, which is the reward of all good little American girls, and was married to her
boy-lover as soon as he came of age. They were both so charming, and they loved each other
so much, that everyone was delighted at the match, except the old Marchioness of Dumbleton,
who had tried to catch the Duke for one of her seven unmarried daughters, and had given no
less than three expensive dinner-parties for that purpose, and, strange to say, Mr. Otis himself.
Mr. Otis was extremely fond of the young Duke personally, but, theoretically, he objected to
titles, and, to use his own words, "was not without apprehension lest, amid the enervating
influences of a pleasure-loving aristocracy, the true principles of Republican simplicity should
be forgotten." His objections, however, were completely over-ruled, and I believe that when
he walked up the aisle of St. George's, Hanover Square, with his daughter leaning on his arm,
there was not a prouder man in the whole length and breadth of England.

The Duke and Duchess, after the honeymoon was over, went down to Canterville Chase, and on
the day after their arrival they walked over in the afternoon to the lonely churchyard by the
pinewoods. There had been a great deal of difficulty at first about the inscription on Sir
Simon's tombstone, but finally it had been decided to engrave on it simply the initials of
the old gentleman's name, and the verse from the library window. The Duchess had brought with
her some lovely roses, which she strewed upon the grave, and after they had stood by it for
some time they strolled into the ruined chancel of the old abbey. There the Duchess sat down
on a fallen pillar, while her husband lay at her feet smoking a cigarette and looking up at
her beautiful eyes. Suddenly he threw his cigarette away, took hold of her hand, and said to
her, "Virginia, a wife should have no secrets from her husband."

"Dear Cecil! I have no secrets from you."

"Yes, you have," he answered, smiling, "you have never told me what happened to you when you
were locked up with the ghost."

"I have never told anyone, Cecil," said Virginia, gravely.

"I know that, but you might tell me."

"Please don't ask me, Cecil, I cannot tell you. Poor Sir Simon! I owe him a great deal. Yes,
don't laugh, Cecil, I really do. He made me see what Life is, and what Death signifies, and
why Love is stronger than both."

The Duke rose and kissed his wife lovingly.

"You can have your secret as long as I have your heart," he murmured.

"You have always had that, Cecil."

"And you will tell our children some day, won't you?"

Virginia blushed.

THE GHOST-EXTINGUISHER

BY GELETT BURGESS

From the Cosmopolitan Magazine, April, 1905. By permission of John Brisben Walker and Gelett
Burgess.

The Ghost-Extinguisher

BY GELETT BURGESS

My attention was first called to the possibility of manufacturing a practicable ghost-extinguisher
by a real-estate agent in San Francisco.

"There's one thing," he said, "that affects city property here in a curious way. You know we
have a good many murders, and, as a consequence, certain houses attain a very sensational and
undesirable reputation. These houses it is almost impossible to let; you can scarcely get a
decent family to occupy them rent-free. Then we have a great many places said to be haunted.
These were dead timber on my hands until I happened to notice that the Japanese have no objections
to spooks. Now, whenever I have such a building to rent, I let it to Japs at a nominal figure,
and after they've taken the curse off, I raise the rent, the Japs move out, the place is renovated,
and in the market again."

The subject interested me, for I am not only a scientist, but a speculative philosopher as
well. The investigation of those phenomena that lie upon the threshold of the great unknown
has always been my favorite field of research. I believed, even then, that the Oriental mind,
working along different lines than those which we pursue, has attained knowledge that we know
little of. Thinking, therefore, that these Japs might have some secret inherited from their
misty past, I examined into the matter.

I shall not trouble you with a narration of the incidents which led up to my acquaintance with
Hoku Yamanochi. Suffice it to say that I found in him a friend who was willing to share with
me his whole lore of quasi-science. I call it this advisedly, for science, as we Occidentals
use the term, has to do only with the laws of matter and sensation; our scientific men, in
fact, recognize the existence of nothing else. The Buddhistic philosophy, however, goes further.

According to its theories, the soul is sevenfold, consisting of different shells or envelopes--something
like an onion--which are shed as life passes from the material to the spiritual state. The
first, or lowest, of these is the corporeal body, which, after death, decays and perishes.
Next comes the vital principle, which, departing from the body, dissipates itself like an odor,
and is lost. Less gross than this is the astral body, which, although immaterial, yet lies
near to the consistency of matter. This astral shape, released from the body at death, remains
for a while in its earthly environment, still preserving more or less definitely the imprint
of the form which it inhabited.

It is this relic of a past material personality, this outworn shell, that appears, when galvanized
into an appearance of life, partly materialized, as a ghost. It is not the soul that returns,
for the soul, which is immortal, is composed of the four higher spiritual essences that surround
the ego, and are carried on into the next life. These astral bodies, therefore, fail to terrify
the Buddhists, who know them only as shadows, with no real volition. The Japs, in point of
fact, have learned how to exterminate them.

There is a certain powder, Hoku informed me, which, when burnt in their presence, transforms
them from the rarefied, or semi-spiritual, condition to the state of matter. The ghost, so
to speak, is precipitated into and becomes a material shape which can easily be disposed of.
In this state it is confined and allowed to disintegrate slowly where it can cause no further
annoyance.

This long-winded explanation piqued my curiosity, which was not to be satisfied until I had
seen the Japanese method applied. It was not long before I had an opportunity. A particularly
revolting murder having been committed in San Francisco, my friend Hoku Yamanochi applied for
the house, and, after the police had finished their examination, he was permitted to occupy
it for a half-year at the ridiculous price of three dollars a month. He invited me to share
his quarters, which were large and luxuriously furnished.

For a week, nothing abnormal occurred. Then, one night, I was awakened by terrifying groans
followed by a blood-curdling shriek which seemed to emerge from a large closet in my room,
the scene of the late atrocity. I confess that I had all the covers pulled over my head and
was shivering with horror when my Japanese friend entered, wearing a pair of flowered-silk
pajamas. Hearing his voice, I peeped forth, to see him smiling reassuringly.

"You some kind of very foolish fellow," he said. "I show you how to fix him!"

He took from his pocket three conical red pastils, placed them upon a saucer and lighted them.
Then, holding the fuming dish in one outstretched hand, he walked to the closed door and opened
it. The shrieks burst out afresh, and, as I recalled the appalling details of the scene which
had occurred in this very room only five weeks ago, I shuddered at his temerity. But he was
quite calm.

Soon, I saw the wraith-like form of the recent victim dart from the closet. She crawled under
my bed and ran about the room, endeavoring to escape, but was pursued by Hoku, who waved his
smoking plate with indefatigable patience and dexterity.

At last he had her cornered, and the specter was caught behind a curtain of odorous fumes.
Slowly the figure grew more distinct, assuming the consistency of a heavy vapor, shrinking
somewhat in the operation. Hoku now hurriedly turned to me.

"You hully up, bling me one pair bellows pletty quick!" he commanded.

I ran into his room and brought the bellows from his fireplace. These he pressed flat, and
then carefully inserting one toe of the ghost into the nozzle and opening the handles steadily,
he sucked in a portion of the unfortunate woman's anatomy, and dexterously squirted the vapor
into a large jar, which had been placed in the room for the purpose. Two more operations were
necessary to withdraw the phantom completely from the corner and empty it into the jar. At
last the transfer was effected and the receptacle securely stoppered and sealed.

"In formeryore-time," Hoku explained to me, "old pliests sucked ghost with mouth and spit him
to inside of vase with acculacy. Modern-time method more better for stomach and epiglottis."

"How long will this ghost keep?" I inquired.

"Oh, about four, five hundled years, maybe," was his reply. "Ghost now change from spilit to
matter, and comes under legality of matter as usual science."

"What are you going to do with her?" I asked.

"Send him to Buddhist temple in Japan. Old pliest use him for high celemony," was the answer.

My next desire was to obtain some of Hoku Yamanochi's ghost-powder and analyze it. For a while
it defied my attempts, but, after many months of patient research, I discovered that it could
be produced, in all its essential qualities, by means of a fusion of formaldehyde and hypophenyltrybrompropionic
acid in an electrified vacuum. With this product I began a series of interesting experiments.

As it became necessary for me to discover the habitat of ghosts in considerable numbers, I
joined the American Society for Psychical Research, thus securing desirable information in
regard to haunted houses. These I visited persistently, until my powder was perfected and had
been proved efficacious for the capture of any ordinary house-broken phantom. For a while I
contented myself with the mere sterilization of these specters, but, as I became surer of success,
I began to attempt the transfer of ghosts to receptacles wherein they could be transported
and studied at my leisure, classified and preserved for future reference.

Hoku's bellows I soon discarded in favor of a large-sized bicycle-pump, and eventually I had
constructed one of my own, of a pattern which enabled me to inhale an entire ghost at a single
stroke. With this powerful instrument I was able to compress even an adult life-sized ghost
into a two-quart bottle, in the neck of which a sensitive valve (patented) prevented the specter
from emerging during process.

My invention was not yet, however, quite satisfactory. While I had no trouble in securing ghosts
of recent creation--spirits, that is, who were yet of almost the consistency of matter--on
several of my trips abroad in search of material I found in old manor houses or ruined castles
many specters so ancient that they had become highly rarefied and tenuous, being at times scarcely
visible to the naked eye. Such elusive spirits are able to pass through walls and elude pursuit
with ease. It became necessary for me to obtain some instrument by which their capture could
be conveniently effected.

The ordinary fire-extinguisher of commerce gave me the hint as to how the problem could be
solved. One of these portable hand-instruments I filled with the proper chemicals. When inverted,
the ingredients were commingled in vacuo and a vast volume of gas was liberated. This was collected
in the reservoir provided with a rubber tube having a nozzle at the end. The whole apparatus
being strapped upon my back, I was enabled to direct a stream of powerful precipitating gas
in any desired direction, the flow being under control through the agency of a small stopcock.
By means of this ghost-extinguisher I was enabled to pursue my experiments as far as I desired.

So far my investigations had been purely scientific, but before long the commercial value of
my discovery began to interest me. The ruinous effects of spectral visitations upon real estate
induced me to realize some pecuniary reward from my ghost-extinguisher, and I began to advertise
my business. By degrees, I became known as an expert in my original line, and my professional
services were sought with as much confidence as those of a veterinary surgeon. I manufactured
the Gerrish Ghost-Extinguisher in several sizes, and put it on the market, following this venture
with the introduction of my justly celebrated Gerrish Ghost-Grenades. These hand-implements
were made to be kept in racks conveniently distributed in country houses for cases of sudden
emergency. A single grenade, hurled at any spectral form, would, in breaking, liberate enough
formaldybrom to coagulate the most perverse spirit, and the resulting vapor could easily be
removed from the room by a housemaid with a common broom.

This branch of my business, however, never proved profitable, for the appearance of ghosts,
especially in the United States, is seldom anticipated. Had it been possible for me to invent
a preventive as well as a remedy, I might now be a millionaire; but there are limits even to
modern science.

Having exhausted the field at home, I visited England in the hope of securing customers among
the country families there. To my surprise, I discovered that the possession of a family specter
was considered as a permanent improvement to the property, and my offers of service in ridding
houses of ghostly tenants awakened the liveliest resentment. As a layer of ghosts I was much
lower in the social scale than a layer of carpets.

Disappointed and discouraged, I returned home to make a further study of the opportunities
of my invention. I had, it seemed, exhausted the possibilities of the use of unwelcome phantoms.
Could I not, I thought, derive a revenue from the traffic in desirable specters? I decided
to renew my investigations.

The nebulous spirits preserved in my laboratory, which I had graded and classified, were, you
will remember, in a state of suspended animation. They were, virtually, embalmed apparitions,
their inevitable decay delayed, rather than prevented. The assorted ghosts that I had now preserved
in hermetically sealed tins were thus in a state of unstable equilibrium. The tins once opened
and the vapor allowed to dissipate, the original astral body would in time be reconstructed
and the warmed-over specter would continue its previous career. But this process, when naturally
performed, took years. The interval was quite too long for the phantom to be handled in any
commercial way. My problem was, therefore, to produce from my tinned Essence of Ghost a specter
that was capable of immediately going into business and that could haunt a house while you wait.

It was not until radium was discovered that I approached the solution of my great problem,
and even then months of indefatigable labor were necessary before the process was perfected.
It has now been well demonstrated that the emanations of radiant energy sent forth by this
surprising element defy our former scientific conceptions of the constitution of matter. It
was for me to prove that the vibratory activity of radium (whose amplitudes and intensity are
undoubtedly four-dimensional) effects a sort of allotropic modification in the particles of
that imponderable ether which seems to lie halfway between matter and pure spirit. This is
as far as I need to go in my explanation, for a full discussion involves the use of quaternions
and the method of least squares. It will be sufficient for the layman to know that my preserved
phantoms, rendered radio-active, would, upon contact with the air, resume their spectral shape.

The possible extension of my business now was enormous, limited only by the difficulty in collecting
the necessary stock. It was by this time almost as difficult to get ghosts as it was to get
radium. Finding that a part of my stock had spoiled, I was now possessed of only a few dozen
cans of apparitions, many of these being of inferior quality. I immediately set about replenishing
my raw material. It was not enough for me to pick up a ghost here and there, as one might get
old mahogany; I determined to procure my phantoms in wholesale lots.

Accident favored my design. In an old volume of Blackwood's Magazine I happened, one day, to
come across an interesting article upon the battle of Waterloo. It mentioned, incidentally,
a legend to the effect that every year, upon the anniversary of the celebrated victory, spectral
squadrons had been seen by the peasants charging battalions of ghostly grenadiers. Here was
my opportunity.

I made elaborate preparations for the capture of this job lot of phantoms upon the next anniversary
of the fight. Hard by the fatal ditch which engulfed Napoleon's cavalry I stationed a corps
of able assistants provided with rapid-fire extinguishers ready to enfilade the famous sunken
road. I stationed myself with a No. 4 model magazine-hose, with a four-inch nozzle, directly
in the path which I knew would be taken by the advancing squadron.

It was a fine, clear night, lighted, at first, by a slice of new moon; but later, dark, except
for the pale illumination of the stars. I have seen many ghosts in my time--ghosts in garden
and garret, at noon, at dusk, at dawn, phantoms fanciful, and specters sad and spectacular--but
never have I seen such an impressive sight as this nocturnal charge of cuirassiers, galloping
in goblin glory to their time-honored doom. From afar the French reserves presented the appearance
of a nebulous mass, like a low-lying cloud or fog-bank, faintly luminous, shot with fluorescent
gleams. As the squadron drew nearer in its desperate charge, the separate forms of the troopers
shaped themselves, and the galloping guardsmen grew ghastly with supernatural splendor.

Although I knew them to be immaterial and without mass or weight, I was terrified at their
approach, fearing to be swept under the hoofs of the nightmares they rode. Like one in a dream,
I started to run, but in another instant they were upon me, and I turned on my stream of formaldybrom.
Then I was overwhelmed in a cloud-burst of wild warlike wraiths.

The column swept past me, over the bank, plunging to its historic fate. The cut was piled full
of frenzied, scrambling specters, as rank after rank swept down into the horrid gut. At last
the ditch swarmed full of writhing forms and the carnage was dire.

My assistants with the extinguishers stood firm, and although almost unnerved by the sight,
they summoned their courage, and directed simultaneous streams of formaldybrom into the struggling
mass of fantoms. As soon as my mind returned, I busied myself with the huge tanks I had prepared
for use as receivers. These were fitted with a mechanism similar to that employed in portable
forges, by which the heavy vapor was sucked off. Luckily the night was calm, and I was enabled
to fill a dozen cylinders with the precipitated ghosts. The segregation of individual forms
was, of course, impossible, so that men and horses were mingled in a horrible mixture of fricasseed
spirits. I intended subsequently to empty the soup into a large reservoir and allow the separate
specters to reform according to the laws of spiritual cohesion.

Circumstances, however, prevented my ever accomplishing this result. I returned home, to find
awaiting me an order so large and important that I had no time in which to operate upon my
cylinders of cavalry.

My patron was the proprietor of a new sanatorium for nervous invalids, located near some medicinal
springs in the Catskills. His building was unfortunately located, having been built upon the
site of a once-famous summer hotel, which, while filled with guests, had burnt to the ground,
scores of lives having been lost. Just before the patients were to be installed in the new
structure, it was found that the place was haunted by the victims of the conflagration to a
degree that rendered it inconvenient as a health resort. My professional services were requested,
therefore, to render the building a fitting abode for convalescents. I wrote to the proprietor,
fixing my charge at five thousand dollars. As my usual rate was one hundred dollars per ghost,
and over a hundred lives were lost at the fire, I considered this price reasonable, and my
offer was accepted.

The sanatorium job was finished in a week. I secured one hundred and two superior spectral
specimens, and upon my return to the laboratory, put them up in heavily embossed tins with
attractive labels in colors.

My delight at the outcome of this business was, however, soon transformed to anger and indignation.
The proprietor of the health resort, having found that the specters from his place had been
sold, claimed a rebate upon the contract price equal to the value of the modified ghosts transferred
to my possession. This, of course, I could not allow. I wrote, demanding immediate payment
according to our agreement, and this was peremptorily refused. The manager's letter was insulting
in the extreme. The Pied Piper of Hamelin was not worse treated than I felt myself to be; so,
like the piper, I determined to have my revenge.

I got out the twelve tanks of Waterloo ghost-hash from the storerooms, and treated them with
radium for two days. These I shipped to the Catskills billed as hydrogen gas. Then, accompanied
by two trustworthy assistants, I went to the sanatorium and preferred my demand for payment
in person. I was ejected with contumely. Before my hasty exit, however, I had the satisfaction
of noticing that the building was filled with patients. Languid ladies were seated in wicker
chairs upon the piazzas, and frail anemic girls filled the corridors. It was a hospital of
nervous wrecks whom the slightest disturbance would throw into a panic. I suppressed all my
finer feelings of mercy and kindness and smiled grimly as I walked back to the village.

That night was black and lowering, fitting weather for the pandemonium I was about to turn
loose. At ten o'clock, I loaded a wagon with the tanks of compressed cohorts, and, muffled
in heavy overcoats, we drove to the sanatorium. All was silent as we approached; all was dark.
The wagon concealed in a grove of pines, we took out the tanks one by one, and placed them
beneath the ground-floor windows. The sashes were easily forced open, and raised enough to
enable us to insert the rubber tubes connected with the iron reservoirs. At midnight everything
was ready.

I gave the word, and my assistants ran from tank to tank, opening the stopcocks. With a hiss
as of escaping steam the huge vessels emptied themselves, vomiting forth clouds of vapor, which,
upon contact with the air, coagulated into strange shapes as the white of an egg does when
dropped into boiling water. The rooms became instantly filled with dismembered shades of men
and horses seeking wildly to unite themselves with their proper parts.

Legs ran down the corridors, seeking their respective trunks, arms writhed wildly reaching
for missing bodies, heads rolled hither and yon in search of native necks. Horses' tails and
hoofs whisked and hurried in quest of equine ownership until, reorganized, the spectral steeds
galloped about to find their riders.

Had it been possible, I would have stopped this riot of wraiths long ere this, for it was more
awful than I had anticipated, but it was already too late. Cowering in the garden, I began
to hear the screams of awakened and distracted patients. In another moment, the front door
of the hotel was burst open, and a mob of hysterical women in expensive nightgowns rushed out
upon the lawn, and huddled in shrieking groups.

I fled into the night.

I fled, but Napoleon's men fled with me. Compelled by I know not what fatal astral attraction,
perhaps the subtle affinity of the creature for the creator, the spectral shells, moved by
some mysterious mechanics of spiritual being, pursued me with fatuous fury. I sought refuge,
first, in my laboratory, but, even as I approached, a lurid glare foretold me of its destruction.
As I drew nearer, the whole ghost-factory was seen to be in flames; every moment crackling
reports were heard, as the over-heated tins of phantasmagoria exploded and threw their supernatural
contents upon the night. These liberated ghosts joined the army of Napoleon's outraged warriors,
and turned upon me. There was not enough formaldybrom in all the world to quench their fierce
energy. There was no place in all the world safe for me from their visitation. No ghost-extinguisher
was powerful enough to lay the host of spirits that haunted me henceforth, and I had neither
time nor money left with which to construct new Gatling quick-firing tanks.

It is little comfort to me to know that one hundred nervous invalids were completely restored
to health by means of the terrific shock which I administered.

"DEY AIN'T NO GHOSTS"

BY ELLIS PARKER BUTLER

From the Century Magazine, November, 1911. By permission of the Century Company and Ellis Parker
Butler.

"Dey Ain't No Ghosts"

BY ELLIS PARKER BUTLER

Once 'pon a time dey was a li'l' black boy whut he name was Mose. An' whin he come erlong to
be 'bout knee-high to a mewel, he 'gin to git powerful 'fraid ob ghosts, 'ca'se dat am sure
a mighty ghostly location whut he lib' in, 'ca'se dey 's a grabeyard in de hollow, an' a buryin'-ground
on de hill, an' a cemuntary in betwixt an' between, an' dey ain't nuffin' but trees nowhar
excipt in de clearin' by de shanty an' down de hollow whar de pumpkin-patch am.

An' whin de night come erlong, dey ain't no sounds at all whut kin be heard in dat locality
but de rain-doves, whut mourn out, "Oo-oo-o-o-o!" jes dat trembulous an' scary, an' de owls,
whut mourn out, "Whut-whoo-o-o-o!" more trembulous an' scary dan dat, an' de wind, whut mourn
out, "You-you-o-o-o!" mos' scandalous' trembulous an' scary ob all. Dat a powerful onpleasant
locality for a li'l' black boy whut he name was Mose.

'Ca'se dat li'l' black boy he so specially black he can't be seen in de dark at all 'cept by
de whites ob he eyes. So whin he go' outen de house at night, he ain't dast shut he eyes, 'ca'se
den ain't nobody can see him in de least. He jes as invidsible as nuffin'. An' who know' but
whut a great, big ghost bump right into him 'ca'se it can't see him? An' dat shore w'u'd scare
dat li'l' black boy powerful' bad, 'ca'se yever'body knows whut a cold, damp pussonality a
ghost is.

So whin dat li'l' black Mose go' outen de shanty at night, he keep' he eyes wide open, you
may be shore. By day he eyes 'bout de size ob butter-pats, an' come sundown he eyes 'bout de
size ob saucers; but whin he go' outen de shanty at night, he eyes am de size ob de white chiny
plate whut set on de mantel; an' it powerful' hard to keep eyes whut am de size ob dat from
a-winkin' an' a-blinkin'.

So whin Hallowe'en come' erlong, dat li'l' black Mose he jes mek' up he mind he ain't gwine
outen he shack at all. He cogitate he gwine stay right snug in de shack wid he pa an' he ma,
'ca'se de rain-doves tek notice dat de ghosts are philanderin' roun' de country, 'ca'se dey
mourn out, "Oo-oo-o-o-o!" an' de owls dey mourn out, "Whut-whoo-o-o-o!" an' de wind mourn out,
"You-you-o-o-o!"

So dat all right. Li'l' black Mose he scrooge' back in de corner by de fireplace, an' he 'low'
he gwine stay dere till he gwine to bed. But byme-by Sally Ann, whut live' up de road, draps
in, an' Mistah Sally Ann, whut is her husban', he draps in, an' Zack Badget an' de school-teacher
whut board' at Unc' Silas Diggs's house drap in, an' a powerful lot ob folks drap in. An' li'l'
black Mose he seen dat gwine be one s'prise-party, an' he right down cheerful 'bout dat.

So all dem folks shake dere hands an' 'low "Howdy," an' some ob dem say: "Why, dere's li'l'
Mose! Howdy, li'l' Mose?" An' he so please' he jes grin' an' grin', 'ca'se he ain't reckon
whut gwine happen. So byme-by Sally Ann, whut live up de road, she say', "Ain't no sort o'
Hallowe'en lest we got a jack-o'-lantern." An' li'l' black Mose he stop' a-grinnin', an' he
scrooge' so far back in de corner he 'mos' scrooge frough de wall. But dat ain't no use, 'ca'se
he ma say', "Mose, go on down to de pumpkin-patch an' fotch a pumpkin."

"I ain't want to go," say' li'l' black Mose.

"Go on erlong wid yo'," say' he ma, right commandin'.

"I ain't want to go," say' Mose ag'in.

"Why ain't yo' want to go?" he ma ask'.

"'Ca'se I's afraid ob de ghosts," say' li'l' black Mose, an' dat de particular truth an' no
mistake.

"'Co'se dey ain't no ghosts," say' Zack Badget, whut dat 'fear'd ob ghosts he ain't dar' come
to li'l' black Mose's house ef de school-teacher ain't ercompany him.

"Go 'long wid your ghosts!" say li'l' black Mose's ma.

"Wha' yo' pick up dat nomsense?" say' he pa. "Dey ain't no ghosts."

An' dat whut all dat s'prise-party 'low: dey ain't no ghosts. An' dey 'low dey mus' hab a jack-o'-lantern
or de fun all sp'iled. So dat li'l' black boy whut he name is Mose he done got to fotch a pumpkin
from de pumpkin-patch down de hollow. So he step'outen de shanty an' he stan' on de doorstep
twell he get' he eyes pried open as big as de bottom ob he ma's wash-tub, mostly, an' he say',
"Dey ain't no ghosts." An' he put' one foot on de ground, an' dat was de fust step.

An' de rain-dove say', "OO-oo-o-o-o!"

An' li'l' black Mose he tuck anudder step.

An' de owl mourn' out, "Whut-whoo-o-o-o!"

An' li'l' black Mose he tuck anudder step.

An' de wind sob' out, "You-you-o-o-o!"

An' li'l' black Mose he tuck one look ober he shoulder, an' he shut he eyes so tight dey hurt
round de aidges, an' he pick' up he foots an' run. Yas, sah, he run' right peart fast. An'
he say': "Dey ain't no ghosts. Dey ain't no ghosts." An' he run' erlong de paff whut lead'
by de buryin'-ground on de hill, 'ca'se dey ain't no fince eround dat buryin'-ground at all.

No fince; jes' de big trees whut de owls an' de rain-doves sot in an' mourn an' sob, an' whut
de wind sigh an' cry frough. An byme-by somefin' jes' brush' li'l' Mose on de arm, which mek'
him run jes a bit more faster. An' byme-by somefin' jes brush' li'l' Mose on de cheek, which
mek' him run erbout as fast as he can. An' byme-by somefin' grab' li'l' Mose by de aidge of
he coat, an' he fight' an' struggle' an' cry out: "Dey ain't no ghosts. Dey ain't no ghosts."
An' dat ain't nuffin' but de wild brier whut grab' him, an' dat ain't nuffin' but de leaf ob
a tree whut brush' he cheek, an' dat ain't nuffin' but de branch ob a hazel-bush whut brush'
he arm. But he downright scared jes de same, an' he ain't lose no time, 'ca'se de wind an'
de owls an' de rain-doves dey signerfy whut ain't no good. So he scoot' past dat buryin'-ground
whut on de hill, an' dat cemuntary whut betwixt an' between, an' dat grabeyard in de hollow,
twell he come' to de pumpkin-patch, an' he rotch' down an' tek' erhold ob de bestest pumpkin
whut in de patch. An' he right smart scared. He jes' de mostest scared li'l' black boy whut
yever was. He ain't gwine open he eyes fo' nuffin', 'ca'se de wind go, "You-you-o-o-o!" an'
de owls go, "Whut-whoo-o-o-o!" an' de rain-doves go, "Oo-oo-o-o-o!"

He jes speculate', "Dey ain't no ghosts," an' wish' he hair don't stand on ind dat way. An'
he jes cogitate', "Dey ain't no ghosts," an' wish' he goose-pimples don't rise up dat way.
An' he jes 'low', "Dey ain't no ghosts," an' wish' he backbone ain't all trembulous wid chills
dat way. So he rotch' down, an' he rotch' down, twell he git' a good hold on dat pricklesome
stem of dat bestest pumpkin whut in de patch, an' he jes yank' dat stem wid all he might.

"Let loosen my head!" say' a big voice all on a suddent.

Dat li'l' black boy whut he name is Mose he jump' 'most outen he skin. He open' he eyes, an'
he 'gin to shake like de aspen-tree, 'ca'se whut dat a-standin' right dar behint him but a
'mendjous big ghost! Yas, sah, dat de bigges', whites' ghost whut yever was. An' it ain't got
no head. Ain't got no head at all! Li'l' black Mose he jes drap' on he knees an' he beg' an' pray':

"Oh, 'scuse me! 'Scuse me, Mistah Ghost!" he beg'. "Ah ain't mean no harm at all."

"Whut for you try to take my head?" ask' de ghost in dat fearsome voice whut like de damp wind
outen de cellar.

"'Scuse me! 'Scuse me!" beg' li'l' Mose. "Ah ain't know dat was yo' head, an' I ain't know
you was dar at all. 'Scuse me!"

"Ah 'scuse you ef you do me dis favor," say' de ghost. "Ah got somefin' powerful important
to say unto you, an' Ah can't say hit 'ca'se Ah ain't got no head; an' whin Ah ain't got no
head, Ah ain't got no mouf, an' whin Ah ain't got no mouf, Ah can't talk at all."

An' dat right logical fo' shore. Can't nobody talk whin he ain't got no mouf, an' can't nobody
have no mouf whin he ain't got no head, an' whin li'l' black Mose he look', he see' dat ghost
ain't got no head at all. Nary head.

So de ghost say':

"Ah come on down yere fo' to git a pumpkin fo' a head, an' Ah pick' dat ixact pumpkin whut
yo' gwine tek, an' Ah don't like dat one bit. No, sah. Ah feel like Ah pick yo' up an' carry
yo' away, an' nobody see you no more for yever. But Ah got somefin' powerful important to say
unto yo', an' if yo' pick up dat pumpkin an' sot it on de place whar my head ought to be, Ah
let you off dis time, 'ca'se Ah ain't been able to talk fo' so long Ah right hongry to say
somefin'."

So li'l' black Mose he heft up dat pumpkin, an' de ghost he bend' down, an' li'l' black Mose
he sot dat pumpkin on dat ghostses neck. An' right off dat pumpkin head 'gin' to wink an' blink
like a jack-o'-lantern, an' right off dat pumpkin head 'gin' to glimmer an' glow frough de
mouf like a jack-o'-lantern, an' right off dat ghost start' to speak. Yas, sah, dass so.

"Whut yo' want to say unto me?" inquire' li'l' black Mose.

"Ah want to tell yo'," say' de ghost, "dat yo' ain't need yever be skeered of ghosts, 'ca'se
dey ain't no ghosts."

An' whin he say dat, de ghost jes vanish' away like de smoke in July. He ain't even linger
round dat locality like de smoke in Yoctober. He jes dissipate' outen de air, an' he gone intirely.

So li'l' Mose he grab' up de nex' bestest pumpkin an' he scoot'. An' whin he come' to de grabeyard
in de hollow, he goin' erlong same as yever, on'y faster, whin he reckon' he'll pick up a club
in case he gwine have trouble. An' he rotch' down an' rotch' down an' tek' hold of a likely
appearin' hunk o' wood whut right dar. An' whin he grab' dat hunk of wood----

"Let loosen my leg!" say' a big voice all on a suddent.

Dat li'l' black boy 'most jump' outen he skin, 'ca'se right dar in de paff is six 'mendjus
big ghostes an' de bigges' ain't got but one leg. So li'l' black Mose jes natchully handed
dat hunk of wood to dat bigges' ghost, an' he say':

"'Scuse me, Mistah Ghost; Ah ain't know dis your leg."

An' whut dem six ghostes do but stand round an' confabulate? Yas, sah, dass so. An' whin dey
do so, one say':

"'Pears like dis a mighty likely li'l' black boy. Whut we gwine do fo' to reward him fo' politeness?"

An' annuder say':

"Tell him whut de truth is 'bout ghostes."

So de bigges' ghost he say':

"Ah gwine tell yo' somefin' important whut yever'body don't know: Dey ain't no ghosts."

An' whin he say' dat, de ghostes jes natchully vanish away, an' li'l' black Mose he proceed'
up de paff. He so scared he hair jes yank' at de roots, an' whin de wind go', "Oo-oo-o-o-o!"
an' de owl go', "Whut-whoo-o-o-o!" an' de rain-doves go, "You-you-o-o-o-!" he jes tremble'
an' shake'. An' byme-by he come' to de cemuntary whut betwixt an' between, an' he shore is
mighty skeered, 'ca'se dey is a whole comp'ny of ghostes lined up along de road, an' he 'low'
he ain't gwine spind no more time palaverin' wid ghostes. So he step' offen de road fo' to
go round erbout, an' he step' on a pine-stump whut lay right dar.

"Git offen my chest!" say' a big voice all on a suddent, 'ca'se dat stump am been selected
by de captain ob de ghostes for to be he chest, 'ca'se he ain't got no chest betwixt he shoulders
an' he legs. An' li'l' black Mose he hop' offen dat stump right peart. Yes, sah; right peart.

"'Scuse me! 'Scuse me!" dat li'l' black Mose beg' an' plead', an' de ghostes ain't know whuther
to eat him all up or not, 'ca'se he step on de boss ghostes's chest dat a-way. But byme-by
they 'low they let him go 'ca'se dat was an accident, an' de captain ghost he say', "Mose,
you Mose, Ah gwine let you off dis time, 'ca'se you ain't nuffin' but a misabul li'l' tremblin'
nigger; but Ah want you should remimimber one thing mos' particular'."

"Ya-yas, sah," say' dat li'l' black boy; "Ah'll remimber. Whut is dat Ah got to remimber?"

De captain ghost he swell' up, an' he swell' up, twell he as big as a house, an' he say' in
a voice whut shake' de ground:

"Dey ain't no ghosts."

So li'l' black Mose he bound to remimber dat, an' he rise' up an' mek' a bow, an' he proceed'
toward home right libely. He do, indeed.

An' he gwine along jes as fast as he kin, whin he come' to de aidge ob de buryin'-ground whut
on de hill, an' right dar he bound to stop, 'ca'se de kentry round about am so populate' he
ain't able to go frough. Yas, sah, seem' like all de ghostes in de world habin' a conferince
right dar. Seem' like all de ghosteses whut yever was am havin' a convintion on dat spot. An'
dat li'l' black Mose so skeered he jes fall' down on a' old log whut dar an' screech' an' moan'.
An' all on a suddent de log up and spoke:

"Get offen me! Get offen me!" yell' dat log.

So li'l' black Mose he git' offen dat log, an' no mistake.

An' soon as he git' offen de log, de log uprise, an' li'l' black Mose he see' dat dat log am
de king ob all de ghostes. An' whin de king uprise, all de congergation crowd round li'l' black
Mose, an' dey am about leben millium an' a few lift over. Yas, sah; dat de reg'lar annyul Hallowe'en
convintion whut li'l' black Mose interrup'. Right dar am all de sperits in de world, an' all
de ha'nts in de world, an' all de hobgoblins in de world, an' all de ghouls in de world, an'
all de spicters in de world, an' all de ghostes in de world. An' whin dey see li'l' black Mose,
dey all gnash dey teef an' grin' 'ca'se it gettin' erlong toward dey-all's lunch-time. So de
king, whut he name old Skull-an'-Bones, he step' on top ob li'l' Mose's head, an' he say':

"Gin'l'min, de convintion will come to order. De sicretary please note who is prisint. De firs'
business whut come' before de convintion am: whut we gwine do to a li'l' black boy whut stip'
on de king an' maul' all ober de king an' treat' de king dat disrespictful'."

An li'l' black Mose jes moan' an' sob':

"'Scuse me! 'Scuse me, Mistah King! Ah ain't mean no harm at all."

But nobody ain't pay no attintion to him at all, 'ca'se yevery one lookin' at a monstrous big
ha'nt whut name Bloody Bones, whut rose up an' spoke.

"Your Honor, Mistah King, an' gin'l'min an' ladies," he say', "dis am a right bad case ob lasy
majesty, 'ca'se de king been step on. Whin yivery li'l' black boy whut choose' gwine wander
round at night an' stip on de king ob ghostes, it ain't no time for to palaver, it ain't no
time for to prevaricate, it ain't no time for to cogitate, it ain't no time do nuffin' but
tell de truth, an' de whole truth, an' nuffin' but de truth."

An' all dem ghostes sicond de motion, an' dey confabulate out loud erbout dat, an' de noise
soun' like de rain-doves goin', "Oo-oo-o-o-o!" an' de owls goin', "Whut-whoo-o-o-o!" an' de
wind goin', "You-you-o-o-o!" So dat risolution am passed unanermous, an' no mistake.

So de king ob de ghostes, whut name old Skull-an'-Bones, he place' he hand on de head ob li'l'
black Mose, an' he hand feel like a wet rag, an' he say':

"Dey ain't no ghosts."

An' one ob de hairs whut on de head of li'l' black Mose turn' white.

An' anudder ob de hairs whut on de head ob li'l' black Mose turn' white.

An' a perticklar bend-up hobgoblin he put' he hand on de head ob li'l' black Mose, an' he mek'
dat same remark, an' dat whole convintion ob ghostes an' spicters an' ha'nts an' yiver'thing,
which am more 'n a millium, pass by so quick dey-all's hands feel lak de wind whut blow outen
de cellar whin de day am hot, an' dey-all say, "Dey ain't no ghosts." Yas, sah, dey-all say
dem wo'ds so fas' it soun' like de wind whin it moan frough de turkentine-trees whut behind
de cider-priss. An' yivery hair whut on li'l' black Mose's head turn' white. Dat whut happen'
whin a li'l' black boy gwine meet a ghost convintion dat-a-way. Dat's so he ain' gwine forgit
to remimber dey ain't no ghostes. 'Ca'se ef a li'l' black boy gwine imaginate dey is ghostes,
he gwine be skeered in de dark. An' dat a foolish thing for to imaginate.

So prisintly all de ghostes am whiff away, like de fog outen de holler whin de wind blow' on
it, an' li'l' black Mose he ain' see no ca'se for to remain in dat locality no longer. He rotch'
down, an' he raise' up de pumpkin, an' he perambulate' right quick to he ma's shack, an' he
lift' up de latch, an' he open' de do', an' he yenter' in. An' he say':

"Yere's de pumpkin." 'Ca'se li'l' black Mose he come' a-fumblin' an' a-rattlin' at de do' jes
whin dat ghost-tale mos' skeery, an' yiver'body gwine imaginate dat he a ghost a-fumblin' an'
a-rattlin' at de do'. Yas, sah. So li'l' black Mose he turn' he white head, an' he look' roun'
an' peer' roun', an' he say':

"Whut you all skeered fo'?"

'Ca'se ef anybody skeered, he want' to be skeered too. Dat's natural. But de school-teacher,
whut live at Unc' Silas Diggs's house, she say':

"Fo' de lan's sake, we fought you was a ghost!"

So li'l' black Mose he sort ob sniff an' he sort ob sneer, an' he 'low':

"Huh! dey ain't no ghosts."

An' li'l' black Mose he jes kinder stan' on one foot, an' he jes kinder suck' he thumb, an'
he jes kinder 'low':

"I don't know nuffin' erbout ghosts, 'ca'se dey ain't no ghosts." How you know dey ain't no
ghosts?"

"Das right; das right, honey lamb," say' de school-teacher. And she say': "I been s'picious
dey ain' no ghostes dis long whiles, an' now I know. Ef all de ghostes say dey ain' no ghosts,
dey ain' no ghosts."

So yiver'body 'low' dat so 'cep' Zack Badget, whut been tellin' de ghost-tale, an' he ain'
gwine say "Yis" an' he ain' gwine say "No," 'ca'se he right sweet on de school-teacher; but
he know right well he done seen plinty ghostes in he day. So he boun' to be sure fust. So he
say' to li'l' black Mose:

"'T ain't likely you met up wid a monstrous big ha'nt whut live' down de lane whut he name
Bloody Bones?"

"Yas," say' li'l' black Mose; "I done met up wid him."

"An' did old Bloody Bones done tol' you dey ain' no ghosts?" say Zack Badget.

"Yas," say' li'l' black Mose, "he done tell me perzackly dat."

"Well, if he tol' you dey ain't no ghosts," say' Zack Badget, "I got to 'low dey ain't no ghosts,
'ca'se he ain' gwine tell no lie erbout it. I know dat Bloody Bones ghost sence I was a piccaninny,
an' I done met up wif him a powerful lot o' times, an' he ain't gwine tell no lie erbout it.

An' dat mek' li'l' black Mose feel mighty good, 'ca'se he ain' lak ghostes. He reckon' he gwine
be a heap mo' comfortable in he mind sence he know' dey ain' no ghosts, an' he reckon' he ain'
gwine be skeered of nuffin' never no more. He ain' gwine min' de dark, an' he ain' gwine min'
de rain-doves whut go', "Oo-oo-o-o-o!" an' he ain' gwine min' de owls whut go', "Who-whoo-o-o-o!"
an' he ain' gwine min' de wind whut go', "You-you-o-o-o!" nor nuffin', nohow. He gwine be brave
as a lion, sence he know' fo' sure dey ain' no ghosts. So prisintly he ma say':

"Well, time fo' a li'l' black boy whut he name is Mose to be gwine up de ladder to de loft to bed."

An' li'l' black Mose he 'low' he gwine wait a bit. He 'low' he gwine jes wait a li'l' bit.
He 'low' he gwine be no trouble at all ef he jes been let wait twell he ma she gwine up de
ladder to de loft to bed, too. So he ma she say':

"Git erlong wid yo'! Whut yo' skeered ob whin dey ain't no ghosts?"

An' li'l' black Mose he scrooge', and he twist', an' he pucker' up de mouf, an' he rub' he
eyes, an' prisintly he say' right low:

"I ain' skeered ob ghosts whut am, 'ca'se dey ain' no ghosts."

"Den whut am yo' skeered ob?" ask he ma.

"Nuffin," say' de li'l' black boy whut he name is Mose; "but I jes feel kinder oneasy 'bout
de ghosts whut ain't."

Jes lak white folks! Jes lak white folks!

THE TRANSFERRED GHOST

BY FRANK R. STOCKTON

From The Lady or the Tiger? and Other Stories. Copyright, 1884, by Charles Scribner's Sons.
By permission of the publishers.

The Transferred Ghost

BY FRANK R. STOCKTON

The country residence of Mr. John Hinckman was a delightful place to me, for many reasons.
It was the abode of a genial, though somewhat impulsive, hospitality. It had broad, smooth-shaven
lawns and towering oaks and elms; there were bosky shades at several points, and not far from
the house there was a little rill spanned by a rustic bridge with the bark on; there were fruits
and flowers, pleasant people, chess, billiards, rides, walks, and fishing. These were great
attractions; but none of them, nor all of them together, would have been sufficient to hold
me to the place very long. I had been invited for the trout season, but should, probably, have
finished my visit early in the summer had it not been that upon fair days, when the grass was
dry, and the sun was not too hot, and there was but little wind, there strolled beneath the
lofty elms, or passed lightly through the bosky shades, the form of my Madeline.

This lady was not, in very truth, my Madeline. She had never given herself to me, nor had I,
in any way, acquired possession of her. But as I considered her possession the only sufficient
reason for the continuance of my existence, I called her, in my reveries, mine. It may have
been that I would not have been obliged to confine the use of this possessive pronoun to my
reveries had I confessed the state of my feelings to the lady.

But this was an unusually difficult thing to do. Not only did I dread, as almost all lovers
dread, taking the step which would in an instant put an end to that delightful season which
may be termed the ante-interrogatory period of love, and which might at the same time terminate
all intercourse or connection with the object of my passion; but I was, also, dreadfully afraid
of John Hinckman. This gentleman was a good friend of mine, but it would have required a bolder
man than I was at that time to ask him for the gift of his niece, who was the head of his household,
and, according to his own frequent statement, the main prop of his declining years. Had Madeline
acquiesced in my general views on the subject, I might have felt encouraged to open the matter
to Mr. Hinckman; but, as I said before, I had never asked her whether or not she would be mine.
I thought of these things at all hours of the day and night, particularly the latter.

I was lying awake one night, in the great bed in my spacious chamber, when, by the dim light
of the new moon, which partially filled the room, I saw John Hinckman standing by a large chair
near the door. I was very much surprised at this for two reasons. In the first place, my host
had never before come into my room; and, in the second place, he had gone from home that morning,
and had not expected to return for several days. It was for this reason that I had been able
that evening to sit much later than usual with Madeline on the moonlit porch. The figure was
certainly that of John Hinckman in his ordinary dress, but there was a vagueness and indistinctness
about it which presently assured me that it was a ghost. Had the good old man been murdered?
and had his spirit come to tell me of the deed, and to confide to me the protection of his
dear--? My heart fluttered at what I was about to think, but at this instant the figure spoke.

"Do you know," he said, with a countenance that indicated anxiety, "if Mr. Hinckman will return
to-night?"

I thought it well to maintain a calm exterior, and I answered:

"We do not expect him."

"I am glad of that," said he, sinking into the chair by which he stood. "During the two years
and a half that I have inhabited this house, that man has never before been away for a single
night. You can't imagine the relief it gives me."

And as he spoke he stretched out his legs, and leaned back in the chair. His form became less
vague, and the colors of his garments more distinct and evident, while an expression of gratified
relief succeeded to the anxiety of his countenance.

"Two years and a half!" I exclaimed. "I don't understand you."

"It is fully that length of time," said the ghost, "since I first came here. Mine is not an
ordinary case. But before I say anything more about it, let me ask you again if you are sure
Mr. Hinckman will not return to-night."

"I am as sure of it as I can be of anything," I answered. "He left to-day for Bristol, two
hundred miles away."

"Then I will go on," said the ghost, "for I am glad to have the opportunity of talking to someone
who will listen to me; but if John Hinckman should come in and catch me here, I should be frightened
out of my wits."

"This is all very strange," I said, greatly puzzled by what I had heard. "Are you the ghost
of Mr. Hinckman?"

This was a bold question, but my mind was so full of other emotions that there seemed to be
no room for that of fear.

"Yes, I am his ghost," my companion replied, "and yet I have no right to be. And this is what
makes me so uneasy, and so much afraid of him. It is a strange story, and, I truly believe,
without precedent. Two years and a half ago, John Hinckman was dangerously ill in this very
room. At one time he was so far gone that he was really believed to be dead. It was in consequence
of too precipitate a report in regard to this matter that I was, at that time, appointed to
be his ghost. Imagine my surprise and horror, sir, when, after I had accepted the position
and assumed its responsibilities, that old man revived, became convalescent, and eventually
regained his usual health. My situation was now one of extreme delicacy and embarrassment.
I had no power to return to my original unembodiment, and I had no right to be the ghost of
a man who was not dead. I was advised by my friends to quietly maintain my position, and was
assured that, as John Hinckman was an elderly man, it could not be long before I could rightfully
assume the position for which I had been selected. But I tell you, sir," he continued, with
animation, "the old fellow seems as vigorous as ever, and I have no idea how much longer this
annoying state of things will continue. I spend my time trying to get out of that old man's
way. I must not leave this house, and he seems to follow me everywhere. I tell you, sir, he
haunts me."

"That is truly a queer state of things," I remarked. "But why are you afraid of him? He couldn't
hurt you."

"Of course he couldn't," said the ghost. "But his very presence is a shock and terror to me.
Imagine, sir, how you would feel if my case were yours."

I could not imagine such a thing at all. I simply shuddered.

"And if one must be a wrongful ghost at all," the apparition continued, "it would be much pleasanter
to be the ghost of some man other than John Hinckman. There is in him an irascibility of temper,
accompanied by a facility of invective, which is seldom met with. And what would happen if
he were to see me, and find out, as I am sure he would, how long and why I had inhabited his
house, I can scarcely conceive. I have seen him in his bursts of passion; and, although he
did not hurt the people he stormed at any more than he would hurt me, they seemed to shrink
before him."

All this I knew to be very true. Had it not been for this peculiarity of Mr. Hinckman, I might
have been more willing to talk to him about his niece.

"I feel sorry for you," I said, for I really began to have a sympathetic feeling toward this
unfortunate apparition. "Your case is indeed a hard one. It reminds me of those persons who
have had doubles, and I suppose a man would often be very angry indeed when he found that there
was another being who was personating himself."

"Oh! the cases are not similar at all," said the ghost. "A double or doppelgänger lives on
the earth with a man; and, being exactly like him, he makes all sorts of trouble, of course.
It is very different with me. I am not here to live with Mr. Hinckman. I am here to take his
place. Now, it would make John Hinckman very angry if he knew that. Don't you know it would?"

I assented promptly.

"Now that he is away I can be easy for a little while," continued the ghost; "and I am so glad
to have an opportunity of talking to you. I have frequently come into your room, and watched
you while you slept, but did not dare to speak to you for fear that if you talked with me Mr.
Hinckman would hear you, and come into the room to know why you were talking to yourself."

"But would he not hear you?" I asked.

"Oh, no!" said the other: "there are times when anyone may see me, but no one hears me except
the person to whom I address myself."

"But why did you wish to speak to me?" I asked.

"Because," replied the ghost, "I like occasionally to talk to people, and especially to someone
like yourself, whose mind is so troubled and perturbed that you are not likely to be frightened
by a visit from one of us. But I particularly wanted to ask you to do me a favor. There is
every probability, so far as I can see, that John Hinckman will live a long time, and my situation
is becoming insupportable. My great object at present is to get myself transferred, and I think
that you may, perhaps, be of use to me."

"Transferred!" I exclaimed. "What do you mean by that?"

"What I mean," said the other, "is this: Now that I have started on my career I have got to
be the ghost of somebody, and I want to be the ghost of a man who is really dead."

"I should think that would be easy enough," I said. "Opportunities must continually occur."

"Not at all! not at all!" said my companion quickly. "You have no idea what a rush and pressure
there is for situations of this kind. Whenever a vacancy occurs, if I may express myself in
that way, there are crowds of applications for the ghost-ship."

"I had no idea that such a state of things existed," I said, becoming quite interested in the
matter. "There ought to be some regular system, or order of precedence, by which you could
all take your turns like customers in a barber's shop."

"Oh dear, that would never do at all!" said the other. "Some of us would have to wait forever.
There is always a great rush whenever a good ghost-ship offers itself--while, as you know,
there are some positions that no one would care for. And it was in consequence of my being
in too great a hurry on an occasion of the kind that I got myself into my present disagreeable
predicament, and I have thought that it might be possible that you would help me out of it.
You might know of a case where an opportunity for a ghost-ship was not generally expected,
but which might present itself at any moment. If you would give me a short notice, I know I
could arrange for a transfer."

"What do you mean?" I exclaimed. "Do you want me to commit suicide? Or to undertake a murder
for your benefit?"

"Oh, no, no, no!" said the other, with a vapory smile. "I mean nothing of that kind. To be
sure, there are lovers who are watched with considerable interest, such persons having been
known, in moments of depression, to offer very desirable ghost-ships; but I did not think of
anything of that kind in connection with you. You were the only person I cared to speak to,
and I hoped that you might give me some information that would be of use; and, in return, I
shall be very glad to help you in your love affair."

"You seem to know that I have such an affair," I said.

"Oh, yes!" replied the other, with a little yawn. "I could not be here so much as I have been
without knowing all about that."

There was something horrible in the idea of Madeline and myself having been watched by a ghost,
even, perhaps, when we wandered together in the most delightful and bosky places. But, then,
this was quite an exceptional ghost, and I could not have the objections to him which would
ordinarily arise in regard to beings of his class.

"I must go now," said the ghost, rising: "but I will see you somewhere to-morrow night. And
remember--you help me, and I'll help you."

I had doubts the next morning as to the propriety of telling Madeline anything about this interview,
and soon convinced myself that I must keep silent on the subject. If she knew there was a ghost
about the house, she would probably leave the place instantly. I did not mention the matter,
and so regulated my demeanor that I am quite sure Madeline never suspected what had taken place.
For some time I had wished that Mr. Hinckman would absent himself, for a day at least, from
the premises. In such case I thought I might more easily nerve myself up to the point of speaking
to Madeline on the subject of our future collateral existence; and, now that the opportunity
for such speech had really occurred, I did not feel ready to avail myself of it. What would
become of me if she refused me?

I had an idea, however, that the lady thought that, if I were going to speak at all, this was
the time. She must have known that certain sentiments were afloat within me, and she was not
unreasonable in her wish to see the matter settled one way or the other. But I did not feel
like taking a bold step in the dark. If she wished me to ask her to give herself to me, she
ought to offer me some reason to suppose that she would make the gift. If I saw no probability
of such generosity, I would prefer that things should remain as they were.

       *       *       *       *       *

That evening I was sitting with Madeline in the moonlit porch. It was nearly ten o'clock, and
ever since supper-time I had been working myself up to the point of making an avowal of my
sentiments. I had not positively determined to do this, but wished gradually to reach the proper
point, when, if the prospect looked bright, I might speak. My companion appeared to understand
the situation--at least, I imagined that the nearer I came to a proposal the more she seemed
to expect it. It was certainly a very critical and important epoch in my life. If I spoke,
I should make myself happy or miserable forever, and if I did not speak I had every reason
to believe that the lady would not give me another chance to do so.

Sitting thus with Madeline, talking a little, and thinking very hard over these momentous matters,
I looked up and saw the ghost, not a dozen feet away from us. He was sitting on the railing
of the porch, one leg thrown up before him, the other dangling down as he leaned against a
post. He was behind Madeline, but almost in front of me, as I sat facing the lady. It was fortunate
that Madeline was looking out over the landscape, for I must have appeared very much startled.
The ghost had told me that he would see me some time this night, but I did not think he would
make his appearance when I was in the company of Madeline. If she should see the spirit of
her uncle, I could not answer for the consequences. I made no exclamation, but the ghost evidently
saw that I was troubled.

"Don't be afraid," he said--"I shall not let her see me; and she cannot hear me speak unless
I address myself to her, which I do not intend to do."

I suppose I looked grateful.

"So you need not trouble yourself about that," the ghost continued; "but it seems to me that
you are not getting along very well with your affair. If I were you, I should speak out without
waiting any longer. You will never have a better chance. You are not likely to be interrupted;
and, so far as I can judge, the lady seems disposed to listen to you favorably; that is, if
she ever intends to do so. There is no knowing when John Hinckman will go away again; certainly
not this summer. If I were in your place, I should never dare to make love to Hinckman's niece
if he were anywhere about the place. If he should catch anyone offering himself to Miss Madeline,
he would then be a terrible man to encounter."

I agreed perfectly to all this.

"I cannot bear to think of him!" I ejaculated aloud.

"Think of whom?" asked Madeline, turning quickly toward me.

Here was an awkward situation. The long speech of the ghost, to which Madeline paid no attention,
but which I heard with perfect distinctness, had made me forget myself.

It was necessary to explain quickly. Of course, it would not do to admit that it was of her
dear uncle that I was speaking; and so I mentioned hastily the first name I thought of.

"Mr. Vilars," I said.

This statement was entirely correct; for I never could bear to think of Mr. Vilars, who was
a gentleman who had, at various times, paid much attention to Madeline.

"It is wrong for you to speak in that way of Mr. Vilars," she said. "He is a remarkably well
educated and sensible young man, and has very pleasant manners. He expects to be elected to
the legislature this fall, and I should not be surprised if he made his mark. He will do well
in a legislative body, for whenever Mr. Vilars has anything to say he knows just how and when
to say it."

This was spoken very quietly, and without any show of resentment, which was all very natural,
for if Madeline thought at all favorably of me she could not feel displeased that I should
have disagreeable emotions in regard to a possible rival. The concluding words contained a
hint which I was not slow to understand. I felt very sure that if Mr. Vilars were in my present
position he would speak quickly enough.

"I know it is wrong to have such ideas about a person," I said, "but I cannot help it."

The lady did not chide me, and after this she seemed even in a softer mood. As for me, I felt
considerably annoyed, for I had not wished to admit that any thought of Mr. Vilars had ever
occupied my mind.

"You should not speak aloud that way," said the ghost, "or you may get yourself into trouble.
I want to see everything go well with you, because then you may be disposed to help me, especially
if I should chance to be of any assistance to you, which I hope I shall be."

I longed to tell him that there was no way in which he could help me so much as by taking his
instant departure. To make love to a young lady with a ghost sitting on the railing nearby,
and that ghost the apparition of a much-dreaded uncle, the very idea of whom in such a position
and at such a time made me tremble, was a difficult, if not an impossible, thing to do; but
I forbore to speak, although I may have looked my mind.

"I suppose," continued the ghost, "that you have not heard anything that might be of advantage
to me. Of course, I am very anxious to hear; but if you have anything to tell me, I can wait
until you are alone. I will come to you to-night in your room, or I will stay here until the
lady goes away."

"You need not wait here," I said; "I have nothing at all to say to you."

Madeline sprang to her feet, her face flushed and her eyes ablaze.

"Wait here!" she cried. "What do you suppose I am waiting for? Nothing to say to me indeed!--I
should think so! What should you have to say to me?"

"Madeline!" I exclaimed, stepping toward her, "let me explain."

But she had gone.

Here was the end of the world for me! I turned fiercely to the ghost.

"Wretched existence!" I cried. "You have ruined everything. You have blackened my whole life.
Had it not been for you----"

But here my voice faltered. I could say no more.

"You wrong me," said the ghost. "I have not injured you. I have tried only to encourage and
assist you, and it is your own folly that has done this mischief. But do not despair. Such
mistakes as these can be explained. Keep up a brave heart. Good-by."

And he vanished from the railing like a bursting soap-bubble.

I went gloomily to bed, but I saw no apparitions that night except those of despair and misery
which my wretched thoughts called up. The words I had uttered had sounded to Madeline like
the basest insult. Of course, there was only one interpretation she could put upon them.

As to explaining my ejaculations, that was impossible. I thought the matter over and over again
as I lay awake that night, and I determined that I would never tell Madeline the facts of the
case. It would be better for me to suffer all my life than for her to know that the ghost of
her uncle haunted the house. Mr. Hinckman was away, and if she knew of his ghost she could
not be made to believe that he was not dead. She might not survive the shock! No, my heart
could bleed, but I would never tell her.

The next day was fine, neither too cool nor too warm; the breezes were gentle, and nature smiled.
But there were no walks or rides with Madeline. She seemed to be much engaged during the day,
and I saw but little of her. When we met at meals she was polite, but very quiet and reserved.
She had evidently determined on a course of conduct and had resolved to assume that, although
I had been very rude to her, she did not understand the import of my words. It would be quite
proper, of course, for her not to know what I meant by my expressions of the night before.

I was downcast and wretched, and said but little, and the only bright streak across the black
horizon of my woe was the fact that she did not appear to be happy, although she affected an
air of unconcern. The moonlit porch was deserted that evening, but wandering about the house
I found Madeline in the library alone. She was reading, but I went in and sat down near her.
I felt that, although I could not do so fully, I must in a measure explain my conduct of the
night before. She listened quietly to a somewhat labored apology I made for the words I had used.

"I have not the slightest idea what you meant," she said, "but you were very rude."

I earnestly disclaimed any intention of rudeness, and assured her, with a warmth of speech
that must have made some impression upon her, that rudeness to her would be an action impossible
to me. I said a great deal upon the subject, and implored her to believe that if it were not
for a certain obstacle I could speak to her so plainly that she would understand everything.

She was silent for a time, and then she said, rather more kindly, I thought, than she had spoken
before:

"Is that obstacle in any way connected with my uncle?"

"Yes," I answered, after a little hesitation, "it is, in a measure, connected with him."

She made no answer to this, and sat looking at her book, but not reading. From the expression
of her face, I thought she was somewhat softened toward me. She knew her uncle as well as I
did, and she may have been thinking that, if he were the obstacle that prevented my speaking
(and there were many ways in which he might be that obstacle), my position would be such a
hard one that it would excuse some wildness of speech and eccentricity of manner. I saw, too,
that the warmth of my partial explanations had had some effect on her, and I began to believe
that it might be a good thing for me to speak my mind without delay. No matter how she should
receive my proposition, my relations with her could not be worse than they had been the previous
night and day, and there was something in her face which encouraged me to hope that she might
forget my foolish exclamations of the evening before if I began to tell her my tale of love.

I drew my chair a little nearer to her, and as I did so the ghost burst into the room from
the doorway behind her. I say burst, although no door flew open and he made no noise. He was
wildly excited, and waved his arms above his head. The moment I saw him, my heart fell within
me. With the entrance of that impertinent apparition, every hope fled from me. I could not
speak while he was in the room.

I must have turned pale; and I gazed steadfastly at the ghost, almost without seeing Madeline,
who sat between us.

"Do you know," he cried, "that John Hinckman is coming up the hill? He will be here in fifteen
minutes; and if you are doing anything in the way of love-making, you had better hurry it up.
But this is not what I came to tell you. I have glorious news! At last I am transferred! Not
forty minutes ago a Russian nobleman was murdered by the Nihilists. Nobody ever thought of
him in connection with an immediate ghost-ship. My friends instantly applied for the situation
for me, and obtained my transfer. I am off before that horrid Hinckman comes up the hill. The
moment I reach my new position, I shall put off this hated semblance. Good-by. You can't imagine
how glad I am to be, at last, the real ghost of somebody."

"Oh!" I cried, rising to my feet, and stretching out my arms in utter wretchedness, "I would
to Heaven you were mine!"

"I am yours," said Madeline, raising to me her tearful eyes.

THE MUMMY'S FOOT

BY THÉOPHILE GAUTIER

Translated for this volume by Sara Goldman.

The Mummy's Foot

By THÉOPHILE GAUTIER

I had sauntered idly into the shop of one of those dealers in old curiosities--"bric-à-brac"
as they say in that Parisian argot, so absolutely unintelligible elsewhere in France.

You have no doubt often glanced through the windows of some of these shops, which have become
numerous since it is so fashionable to buy antique furniture, that the humblest stockbroker
feels obliged to have a room furnished in medieval style.

Something is there which belongs alike to the shop of the dealer in old iron, the warehouse
of the merchant, the laboratory of the chemist, and the studio of the painter: in all these
mysterious recesses, where but a discreet half-light filters through the shutters, the most
obviously antique thing is the dust: the cobwebs are more genuine than the laces, and the old
pear-tree furniture is more modern than the mahogany which arrived but yesterday from America.

The warehouse of my dealer in bric-à-brac was a veritable Capharnaüm; all ages and all countries
seemed to have arranged a rendezvous there; an Etruscan terra cotta lamp stood upon a Boule
cabinet, with ebony panels decorated with simple filaments of inlaid copper: a duchess of the
reign of Louis XV stretched nonchalantly her graceful feet under a massive Louis XIII table
with heavy, spiral oaken legs, and carvings of intermingled flowers and grotesque figures.

In a corner glittered the ornamented breastplate of a suit of damaskeened armor of Milan. The
shelves and floor were littered with porcelain cupids and nymphs, Chinese monkeys, vases of
pale green enamel, cups of Dresden and old Sèvres.

Upon the denticulated shelves of sideboards, gleamed huge Japanese plaques, with red and blue
designs outlined in gold, side by side with the enamels of Bernard Palissy, with serpents,
frogs, and lizards in relief.

From ransacked cabinets tumbled cascades of silvery-gleaming China silk, the shimmering brocade
pricked into luminous beads by a slanting sunbeam; while portraits of every epoch smiled through
their yellowed varnish from frames more or less tarnished.

The dealer followed me watchfully through the tortuous passages winding between the piles of
furniture, warding off with his hands the perilous swing of my coat tail, observing my elbows
with the disquieting concern of an antiquarian and a usurer.

He was an odd figure--this dealer; an enormous skull, smooth as a knee, was surrounded by a
scant aureole of white hair, which, by contrast, emphasized the salmon-colored tint of his
complexion, and gave a wrong impression of patriarchal benevolence, corrected, however, by
the glittering of two small, yellow eyes which shifted in their orbits like two louis d'or
floating on quicksilver. The curve of his nose gave him an aquiline silhouette, which suggested
the Oriental or Jewish type. His hands, long, slender, with prominent veins and sinews protruding
like the strings on a violin, with nails like the claws on the membraneous wings of the bat
moved with a senile trembling painful to behold, but those nervously quivering hands became
firmer than pincers of steel, or the claws of a lobster, when they picked up any precious object,
an onyx cup, a Venetian glass, or a platter of Bohemian crystal. This curious old fellow had
an air so thoroughly rabbinical and cabalistic, that, from mere appearance, he would have been
burned at the stake three centuries ago.

"Will you not buy something from me to-day, sir? Here is a kris from Malay, with a blade which
undulates like a flame; look at these grooves for the blood to drip from, these teeth reversed
so as to tear out the entrails in withdrawing the weapon; it is a fine specimen of a ferocious
weapon, and will be an interesting addition to your trophies; this two-handed sword is very
beautiful--it is the work of Joseph de la Herz; and this cauchelimarde with its carved guard--what
superb workmanship!"

"No, I have enough weapons and instruments of carnage; I should like to have a small figure,
any sort of object which can be used for a paper weight; for I cannot endure those commonplace
bronzes for sale at the stationers which one sees invariably on everybody's desk."

The old gnome, rummaging among his ancient wares, displayed before me some antique bronzes--pseudo-antique,
at least, fragments of malachite, little Hindu and Chinese idols, jade monkeys, incarnations
of Brahma and Vishnu, marvelously suitable for the purpose--scarcely divine--of holding papers
and letters in place.

I was hesitating between a porcelain dragon covered with constellations of warts, its jaws
embellished with teeth and tusks, and a hideous little Mexican fetish, representing realistically
the god Vitziliputzili, when I noticed a charming foot, which at first I supposed was a fragment
of some antique Venus.

It had that beautiful tawny reddish tint, which gives the Florentine bronzes their warm, life-like
appearance, so preferable to the verdigris tones of ordinary bronzes, which might be taken
readily for statues in a state of putrefaction; a satiny luster gleamed over its curves, polished
by the amorous kisses of twenty centuries; for it must have been a Corinthian bronze, a work
of the finest period, molded perhaps by Lysippus himself.

"That foot will do," I said to the dealer, who looked at me with an ironical, crafty expression,
as he handed me the object I asked for, so that I might examine it more carefully.

I was surprised at its lightness. It was not a metal foot but in reality a foot of flesh, an
embalmed foot, a mummy's foot; on examining it more closely, one could distinguish the grain
of the skin, and the almost imperceptible imprint of the weave of the wrappings. The toes were
slender, delicate, with perfect nails, pure and transparent as agate; the great toe, slightly
separated from the others, in the antique manner was in pleasing contrast to the position of
the other toes, and gave a suggestion of the freedom and lightness of a bird's foot. The sole,
faintly streaked with almost invisible lines, showed that it had never touched the ground,
or come in contact with anything but the finest mats woven from the rushes of the Nile, and
the softest rugs of panther skin.

"Ha, ha! You want the foot of the Princess Hermonthis," said the dealer with a strange, mocking
laugh, staring at me with his owlish eyes. "Ha, ha, ha, for a paper weight! An original idea!
an artist's idea! If anyone had told old Pharaoh that the foot of his adored daughter would
be used for a paper weight, particularly whilst he was having a mountain of granite hollowed
out in which to place her triple coffin, painted and gilded, covered with hieroglyphics, and
beautiful pictures of the judgment of souls, it would truly have surprised him," continued
the queer little dealer, in low tones, as though talking to himself.

"How much will you charge me for this fragment of a mummy?"

"Ah, as much as I can get; for it is a superb piece; if I had the mate to it, you could not
have it for less than five hundred francs--the daughter of a Pharaoh! there could be nothing
more choice."

"Assuredly it is not common; but, still, how much do you want for it? First, however, I want
to acquaint you with one fact, which is, that my fortune consists of only five louis. I will
buy anything that costs five louis, but nothing more expensive. You may search my vest pockets,
and my most secret bureau drawers, but you will not find one miserable five franc piece besides."

"Five louis for the foot of the Princess Hermonthis! It is very little, too little, in fact,
for an authentic foot," said the dealer, shaking his head and rolling his eyes with a peculiar
rotary motion. "Very well, take it, and I will throw in the outer covering," he said, rolling
it in a shred of old damask--"very beautiful, genuine damask, which has never been redyed;
it is strong, yet it is soft," he muttered, caressing the frayed tissue, in accordance with
his dealer's habit of praising an article of so little value, that he himself thought it good
for nothing but to give away.

He dropped the gold pieces into a kind of medieval pouch which was fastened at his belt, while
he repeated:

"The foot of the Princess Hermonthis to be used for a paper weight!"

Then, fastening upon me his phosphorescent pupils he said, in a voice strident as the wails
of a cat which has just swallowed a fish bone:

"Old Pharaoh will not be pleased; he loved his daughter--that dear man."

"You speak of him as though you were his contemporary; no matter how old you may be, you do
not date back to the pyramids of Egypt," I answered laughingly from the threshold of the shop.

I returned home, delighted with my purchase.

To make use of it at once, I placed the foot of the exalted Princess Hermonthis on a stack
of papers--sketches of verses, undecipherable mosaics of crossed out words, unfinished articles,
forgotten letters, posted in the desk drawer, a mistake often made by absent-minded people;
the effect was pleasing, bizarre, and romantic.

Highly delighted with this decoration, I went down into the street, and took a walk with all
the importance and pride proper to a man who has the inexpressible advantage over the passersby
he elbows, of possessing a fragment of the Princess Hermonthis, daughter of Pharaoh.

I thought people who did not possess, like myself, a paper weight so genuinely Egyptian, were
objects of ridicule, and it seemed to me the proper business of the sensible man to have a
mummy's foot upon his desk.

Happily, an encounter with several friends distracted me from my raptures over my recent acquisition,
I went to dinner with them, for it would have been hard for me to dine alone.

When I returned at night, with my brain somewhat muddled by the effects of a few glasses of
wine, a vague whiff of oriental perfume tickled delicately my olfactory nerves. The heat of
the room had warmed the natron, the bitumen, and the myrrh in which the paraschites who embalmed
the dead had bathed the body of the Princess; it was a delicate, yet penetrating perfume, which
four thousand years had not been able to dissipate.

The Dream of Egypt was for the Eternal; its odors have the solidity of granite, and last as long.

In a short time I drank full draughts from the black cup of sleep; for an hour or two all remained
in obscurity; Oblivion and Nothingness submerged me in their somber waves.

Nevertheless the haziness of my perceptions gradually cleared away, dreams began to brush me
lightly in their silent flight.

The eyes of my soul opened, and I saw my room as it was in reality. I might have believed myself
awake, if I had not had a vague consciousness that I was asleep, and that something very unusual
was about to take place.

The odor of myrrh had increased in intensity, and I had a slight headache, which I very naturally
attributed to several glasses of champagne that we had drunk to unknown gods, and to our future
success.

I scrutinized my room with a feeling of expectation, which there was nothing to justify. Each
piece of furniture was in its usual place; the lamp, softly shaded by the milky whiteness of
its ground crystal globe, burned upon the console, the water colors glowed from under the Bohemian
glass; the curtains hung in heavy drooping folds; everything suggested tranquility and slumber.

Nevertheless, after a few moments the quiet of the room was disturbed, the woodwork creaked
furtively, the ash-covered log suddenly spurted out a blue flame, and the surfaces of the plaques
seemed like metallic eyes, watching, like myself, for what was about to happen.

By chance my eyes fell on the table on which I had placed the foot of the Princess Hermonthis.

Instead of remaining in the state of immobility proper to a foot which has been embalmed for
four thousand years, it moved about in an agitated manner, twitching, leaping about over the
papers like a frightened frog; one might have thought it in contact with a galvanic battery;
I could hear distinctly the quick tap of the little heel, hard as the hoof of a gazelle.

I became rather dissatisfied with my purchase, for I like paper weights of sedentary habits--besides
I found it very unnatural for feet to move about without legs, and I began to feel something
closely resembling fear.

Suddenly I noticed a movement of one of the folds of my curtains, and I heard a stamping like
that made by a person hopping about on one foot. I must admit that I grew hot and cold by turns,
that I felt a mysterious breeze blowing down my back, and that my hair stood on end so suddenly
that it forced my night-cap to a leap of several degrees.

The curtains partly opened, and I saw the strangest figure possible advancing.

It was a young girl, as coffee-coloured as Amani the dancer, and of a perfect beauty of the
purest Egyptian type. She had slanting almond-shaped eyes, with eyebrows so black that they
appeared blue; her nose was finely chiseled, almost Grecian in its delicacy; she might have
been taken for a Corinthian statue of bronze, had not her prominent cheekbones and rather African
fullness of lips indicated without a doubt the hieroglyphic race which dwelt on the banks of
the Nile.

Her arms, thin, spindle shaped, like those of very young girls, were encircled with a kind
of metal ornament, and bracelets of glass beads; her hair was twisted into little cords; on
her breast hung a green paste idol, identified by her whip of seven lashes as Isis, guide of
souls--a golden ornament shone on her forehead, and slight traces of rouge were visible on
the coppery tints of her cheeks.

As for her costume, it was very odd.

Imagine a pagne made of narrow strips bedizened with red and black hieroglyphics, weighted
with bitumen, and apparently belonging to a mummy newly unswathed.

In one of those flights of fancy usual in dreams, I could hear the hoarse, rough voice of the
dealer of bric-à-brac reciting in a monotonous refrain, the phrase he had kept repeating in
his shop in so enigmatic a manner.

"Old Pharaoh will not be pleased--he loved his daughter very much--that dear man."

One peculiar detail, which was hardly reassuring, was that the apparition had but one foot,
the other was broken off at the ankle.

She approached the table, where the mummy's foot was fidgeting and tossing about with redoubled
energy. She leaned against the edge, and I saw her eyes fill with pearly tears.

Although she did not speak, I fully understood her feelings. She looked at the foot, for it
was in truth her own, with an expression of coquettish sadness, which was extremely charming;
but the foot kept jumping and running about as though it were moved by springs of steel.

Two or three times she stretched out her hand to grasp it, but did not succeed.

Then began between the Princess Hermonthis and her foot, which seemed to be endowed with an
individuality of its own, a very bizarre dialogue, in an ancient Coptic tongue, such as might
have been spoken thirty centuries before, among the sphinxes of the Land of Ser; fortunately,
that night I understood Coptic perfectly.

The Princess Hermonthis said in a tone of voice sweet and tremulous as the tones of a crystal bell:

"Well, my dear little foot, you always flee from me, yet I took the best of care of you; I
bathed you with perfumed water, in a basin of alabaster; I rubbed your heel with pumice stone,
mixed with oil of palm; your nails were cut with golden scissors, and polished with a hippopotamus'
tooth; I was careful to select for you painted and embroidered tatbebs, with turned up toes,
which were the envy of all the young girls of Egypt; on your great toe, you wore rings representing
the sacred Scarab, and you supported one of the lightest bodies that could be desired by a
lazy foot."

The foot answered in a pouting, regretful voice:

"You know well that I no longer belong to myself. I have been bought and paid for; the old
dealer knew what he was about. He bears you a grudge for having refused to marry him. This
is a trick he has played on you. The Arab who forced open your royal tomb, in the subterranean
pits of the Necropolis of Thebes, was sent there by him. He wanted to prevent you from attending
the reunion of the shades, in the cities of the lower world. Have you five pieces of gold with
which to ransom me?"

"Alas, no! My jewels, my rings, my purses of gold and of silver have all been stolen from me,"
answered the Princess Hermonthis with a sigh.

"Princess," I then cried out, "I have never kept possession of anyone's foot unjustly; even
though you have not the five louis which it cost me, I will return it to you gladly; I should
be wretched, were I the cause of the lameness of so charming a person as the Princess Hermonthis."

I delivered this discourse in a courtly, troubadour-like manner, which must have astonished
the beautiful Egyptian.

She looked at me with an expression of deepest gratitude, and her eyes brightened with bluish
lights.

She took her foot, which this time submitted, and, like a woman about to put on her brodekin,
she adjusted it to her leg with great dexterity.

This operation finished, she took a few steps about the room, as though to assure herself that
she was in reality no longer lame.

"Ah, how happy my father will be, he who was so wretched because of my mutilation--he who,
from the day of my birth, set a whole nation to work to hollow out a tomb so deep that he might
preserve me intact until that supreme last day, when souls must be weighed in the scales of
Amenti! Come with me to my father; he will be happy to receive you, for you have given me back
my foot."

I found this proposition quite natural. I decked myself out in a dressing-gown of huge sprawling
design, which gave me an extremely Pharaohesque appearance; I hurriedly put on a pair of Turkish
slippers, and told the Princess Hermonthis that I was ready to follow her.

Before setting out, Hermonthis detached from her necklace the little green paste image and
placed it on the scattered papers which strewed the table.

"It is no more than right," she said smilingly, "that I should replace your paper weight."

She gave me her hand, which was soft and cool as the skin of a serpent, and we departed.

For a time we sped with the rapidity of an arrow, through a misty expanse of space, in which
almost indistinguishable silhouettes flashed by us, on the right and left.

For an instant we saw nothing but sea and sky.

A few minutes later, towering obelisks, pillars, the sloping outlines of the sphinx, were designed
against the horizon.

We had arrived.

The princess conducted me to the side of a mountain of red granite in which there was an aperture
so low and narrow that, had it not been marked by two monoliths covered with bizarre carvings,
it would have been difficult to distinguish from the fissures in the rock.

Hermonthis lighted a torch and led the way.

The corridors were hewn through the living rock. The walls, with panels covered with hieroglyphics,
and representations of allegorical processions, must have been the work of thousands of hands
for thousands of years; the corridors, of an interminable length, ended in square rooms, in
the middle of which pits had been constructed, to which we descended by means of crampons or
spiral staircases. These pits led us into other rooms, from which opened out other corridors
embellished in the same bizarre manner with sparrow-hawks, serpents coiled in circles, the
symbolic tau, pedum, and baris, prodigious works which no living eye should ever see, interminable
legends in granite which only the dead throughout eternity have time to read.

At last we reached a hall so vast, so boundless, so immeasurable, that its limits could not
be discerned. As far as the eye could see, extended files of gigantic columns, between which
sparkled livid stars of yellow light. These glittering points of light revealed incalculable
depths beyond.

The Princess Hermonthis, still holding my hand, greeted graciously the mummies of her acquaintance.

My eyes gradually became accustomed to the shadowy twilight, and I began to distinguish the
objects around me.

I saw, seated upon their thrones, the kings of the subterranean races. They were dignified
old personages, or dried up, shriveled, wrinkled-like parchment, and blackened with naphtha
and bitumen. On their heads they wore pschents of gold, and their breastplates and gorgets
scintillated with precious stones; their eyes had the fixedness of the sphinx, and their long
beards were whitened by the snows of centuries. Behind them stood their embalmed subjects,
in the rigid and constrained postures of Egyptian art, preserving eternally the attitudes prescribed
by the hieratic code. Behind the subjects, the cats, ibixes, and crocodiles contemporary with
them, rendered still more monstrous by their wrappings, mewed, beat their wings, and opened
and closed their huge jaws in foolish grimaces.

All the Pharaohs were there--Cheops, Chephrenes, Psammetichus, Sesostri, Amenoteph, all the
dark-skinned rulers of the country of the pyramids, and the royal sepulchers; on a still higher
platform sat enthroned the kings Chronos, and Xixouthros, who were contemporary with the deluge,
and Tubal-Cain, who preceded it.

The beard of King Xixouthros had grown to such lengths that it had already wound itself seven
times around the granite table against which he leaned, lost in reverie, as though in slumber.

Further in the distance, through a dim exhalation, across the mists of eternities, I beheld
vaguely the seventy-two pre-Adamite kings, with their seventy-two peoples, vanished forever.

The Princess Hermonthis, after allowing me a few moments to enjoy this dizzying spectacle,
presented me to Pharaoh, her father, who nodded to me in a most majestic manner.

"I have found my foot--I have found my foot!" cried the Princess, clapping her little hands,
with every indication of uncontrollable joy. "It was this gentleman who returned it to me."

The races of Kheme, the races of Nahasi, all the races, black, bronze, and copper-colored,
repeated in a chorus:

"The Princess Hermonthis has found her foot."

Xixouthros himself was deeply affected.

He raised his heavy eyelids, stroked his moustache, and regarded me with his glance charged
with the centuries.

"By Oms, the dog of Hell, and by Tmei, daughter of the Sun and of Truth, here is a brave and
worthy young man," said Pharaoh, extending toward me his scepter which terminated in a lotus
flower. "What recompense do you desire?"

Eagerly, with that audacity which one has in dreams, where nothing seems impossible, I asked
him for the hand of the Princess Hermonthis. Her hand in exchange for her foot, seemed to me
an antithetical recompense, in sufficiently good taste.

Pharaoh opened wide his eyes of glass, surprised at my pleasantry, as well as my request.

"From what country are you, and what is your age?"

"I am a Frenchman, and I am twenty-seven years old, venerable Pharaoh."

"Twenty-seven years old! And he wishes to espouse the Princess Hermonthis, who is thirty centuries
old!" exclaimed in a chorus all the thrones, and all the circles of nations.

Hermonthis alone did not seem to think my request improper.

"If you were even two thousand years old," continued the old king, "I would gladly bestow upon
you the Princess; but the disproportion is too great; besides, our daughters must have husbands
who will last, and you no longer know how to preserve yourselves. Of the last persons who were
brought here, scarcely fifteen centuries ago, nothing now remains but a pinch of ashes. Look!
my flesh is as hard as basalt, my bones are bars of steel. I shall be present on the last day,
with the body and features I had in life. My daughter Hermonthis will last longer than a statue
of bronze. But at that time the winds will have dissipated the last grains of your dust, and
Isis herself, who knew how to recover the fragments of Osiris, would hardly be able to recompose
your being. See how vigorous I still am, and how powerful is the strength of my arm," said
he, shaking my hand in the English fashion, in a way that cut my fingers with my rings.

His grasp was so strong that I awoke, and discovered my friend Alfred, who was pulling me by
the arm, and shaking me, to make me get up.

"Oh, see here, you maddening sleeper! Must I have you dragged into the middle of the street,
and have fireworks put off close to your ear, in order to waken you? It is afternoon. Don't
you remember that you promised to call for me and take me to see the Spanish pictures of M.
Aguada?"

"Good heavens! I forgot all about it," I answered, dressing hurriedly. "We can go there at
once--I have the permit here on my table." I crossed over to get it; imagine my astonishment
when I saw, not the mummy's foot I had bought the evening before, but the little green paste
image left in its place by the Princess Hermonthis!

THE RIVAL GHOSTS

BY BRANDER MATTHEWS

From Tales of Fantasy and Fact, by Brander Matthews. Copyright, 1886, by Harper Brothers. By
permission of the publishers and Brander Matthews.

The Rival Ghosts

BY BRANDER MATTHEWS

The good ship sped on her way across the calm Atlantic. It was an outward passage, according
to the little charts which the company had charily distributed, but most of the passengers
were homeward bound, after a summer of rest and recreation, and they were counting the days
before they might hope to see Fire Island Light. On the lee side of the boat, comfortably sheltered
from the wind, and just by the door of the captain's room (which was theirs during the day),
sat a little group of returning Americans. The Duchess (she was down on the purser's list as
Mrs. Martin, but her friends and familiars called her the Duchess of Washington Square) and
Baby Van Rensselaer (she was quite old enough to vote, had her sex been entitled to that duty,
but as the younger of two sisters she was still the baby of the family)--the Duchess and Baby
Van Rensselaer were discussing the pleasant English voice and the not unpleasant English accent
of a manly young lordling who was going to America for sport. Uncle Larry and Dear Jones were
enticing each other into a bet on the ship's run of the morrow.

"I'll give you two to one she don't make 420," said Dear Jones.

"I'll take it," answered Uncle Larry. "We made 427 the fifth day last year." It was Uncle Larry's
seventeenth visit to Europe, and this was therefore his thirty-fourth voyage.

"And when did you get in?" asked Baby Van Rensselaer. "I don't care a bit about the run, so
long as we get in soon."

"We crossed the bar Sunday night, just seven days after we left Queenstown, and we dropped
anchor off Quarantine at three o'clock on Monday morning."

"I hope we sha'n't do that this time. I can't seem to sleep any when the boat stops."

"I can, but I didn't," continued Uncle Larry, "because my stateroom was the most for'ard in
the boat, and the donkey-engine that let down the anchor was right over my head."

"So you got up and saw the sun rise over the bay," said Dear Jones, "with the electric lights
of the city twinkling in the distance, and the first faint flush of the dawn in the east just
over Fort Lafayette, and the rosy tinge which spread softly upward, and----"

"Did you both come back together?" asked the Duchess.

"Because he has crossed thirty-four times you must not suppose he has a monopoly in sunrises,"
retorted Dear Jones. "No; this was my own sunrise; and a mighty pretty one it was too."

"I'm not matching sunrises with you," remarked Uncle Larry calmly; "but I'm willing to back
a merry jest called forth by my sunrise against any two merry jests called forth by yours."

"I confess reluctantly that my sunrise evoked no merry jest at all." Dear Jones was an honest
man, and would scorn to invent a merry jest on the spur of the moment.

"That's where my sunrise has the call," said Uncle Larry, complacently.

"What was the merry jest?" was Baby Van Rensselaer's inquiry, the natural result of a feminine
curiosity thus artistically excited.

"Well, here it is. I was standing aft, near a patriotic American and a wandering Irishman,
and the patriotic American rashly declared that you couldn't see a sunrise like that anywhere
in Europe, and this gave the Irishman his chance, and he said, 'Sure ye don't have'm here till
we're through with 'em over there.'"

"It is true," said Dear Jones, thoughtfully, "that they do have some things over there better
than we do; for instance, umbrellas."

"And gowns," added the Duchess.

"And antiquities."--this was Uncle Larry's contribution.

"And we do have some things so much better in America!" protested Baby Van Rensselaer, as yet
uncorrupted by any worship of the effete monarchies of despotic Europe. "We make lots of things
a great deal nicer than you can get them in Europe--especially ice-cream."

"And pretty girls," added Dear Jones; but he did not look at her.

"And spooks," remarked Uncle Larry, casually.

"Spooks?" queried the Duchess.

"Spooks. I maintain the word. Ghost, if you like that better, or specters. We turn out the
best quality of spook----"

"You forget the lovely ghost stories about the Rhine and the Black Forest," interrupted Miss
Van Rensselaer, with feminine inconsistency.

"I remember the Rhine and the Black Forest and all the other haunts of elves and fairies and
hobgoblins; but for good honest spooks there is no place like home. And what differentiates
our spook--spiritus Americanus--from the ordinary ghost of literature is that it responds to
the American sense of humor. Take Irving's stories, for example. The 'Headless Horseman'--that's
a comic ghost story. And Rip Van Winkle--consider what humor, and what good humor, there is
in the telling of his meeting with the goblin crew of Hendrik Hudson's men! A still better
example of this American way of dealing with legend and mystery is the marvelous tale of the
rival ghosts."

"The rival ghosts!" queried the Duchess and Baby Van Rensselaer together. "Who were they?"

"Didn't I ever tell you about them?" answered Uncle Larry, a gleam of approaching joy flashing
from his eye.

"Since he is bound to tell us sooner or later, we'd better be resigned and hear it now," said
Dear Jones.

"If you are not more eager, I won't tell it at all."

"Oh, do, Uncle Larry! you know I just dote on ghost stories," pleaded Baby Van Rensselaer.

"Once upon a time," began Uncle Larry--"in fact, a very few years ago--there lived in the thriving
town of New York a young American called Duncan--Eliphalet Duncan. Like his name, he was half
Yankee and half Scotch, and naturally he was a lawyer, and had come to New York to make his
way. His father was a Scotchman who had come over and settled in Boston and married a Salem
girl. When Eliphalet Duncan was about twenty he lost both of his parents. His father left him
enough money to give him a start, and a strong feeling of pride in his Scotch birth; you see
there was a title in the family in Scotland, and although Eliphalet's father was the younger
son of a younger son, yet he always remembered, and always bade his only son to remember, that
this ancestry was noble. His mother left him her full share of Yankee grit and a little old
house in Salem which had belonged to her family for more than two hundred years. She was a
Hitchcock, and the Hitchcocks had been settled in Salem since the year 1. It was a great-great-grandfather
of Mr. Eliphalet Hitchcock who was foremost in the time of the Salem witchcraft craze. And
this little old house which she left to my friend, Eliphalet Duncan, was haunted."

"By the ghost of one of the witches, of course?" interrupted Dear Jones.

"Now how could it be the ghost of a witch, since the witches were all burned at the stake?
You never heard of anybody who was burned having a ghost, did you?" asked Uncle Larry.

"That's an argument in favor of cremation, at any rate," replied Dear Jones, evading the direct
question.

"It is, if you don't like ghosts. I do," said Baby Van Rensselaer.

"And so do I," added Uncle Larry. "I love a ghost as dearly as an Englishman loves a lord."

"Go on with your story," said the Duchess, majestically overruling all extraneous discussion.

"This little old house at Salem was haunted," resumed Uncle Larry. "And by a very distinguished
ghost--or at least by a ghost with very remarkable attributes."

"What was he like?" asked Baby Van Rensselaer, with a premonitory shiver of anticipatory delight.

"It had a lot of peculiarities. In the first place, it never appeared to the master of the
house. Mostly it confined its visitations to unwelcome guests. In the course of the last hundred
years it had frightened away four successive mothers-in-law, while never intruding on the head
of the household."

"I guess that ghost had been one of the boys when he was alive and in the flesh." This was
Dear Jones's contribution to the telling of the tale.

"In the second place," continued Uncle Larry, "it never frightened anybody the first time it
appeared. Only on the second visit were the ghost-seers scared; but then they were scared enough
for twice, and they rarely mustered up courage enough to risk a third interview. One of the
most curious characteristics of this well-meaning spook was that it had no face--or at least
that nobody ever saw its face."

"Perhaps he kept his countenance veiled?" queried the Duchess, who was beginning to remember
that she never did like ghost stories.

"That was what I was never able to find out. I have asked several people who saw the ghost,
and none of them could tell me anything about its face, and yet while in its presence they
never noticed its features, and never remarked on their absence or concealment. It was only
afterwards when they tried to recall calmly all the circumstances of meeting with the mysterious
stranger that they became aware that they had not seen its face. And they could not say whether
the features were covered, or whether they were wanting, or what the trouble was. They knew
only that the face was never seen. And no matter how often they might see it, they never fathomed
this mystery. To this day nobody knows whether the ghost which used to haunt the little old
house in Salem had a face, or what manner of face it had."

"How awfully weird!" said Baby Van Rensselaer. "And why did the ghost go away?"

"I haven't said it went away," answered Uncle Larry, with much dignity.

"But you said it used to haunt the little old house at Salem, so I supposed it had moved. Didn't
it?" the young lady asked.

"You shall be told in due time. Eliphalet Duncan used to spend most of his summer vacations
at Salem, and the ghost never bothered him at all, for he was the master of the house--much
to his disgust, too, because he wanted to see for himself the mysterious tenant at will of
his property. But he never saw it, never. He arranged with friends to call him whenever it
might appear, and he slept in the next room with the door open; and yet when their frightened
cries waked him the ghost was gone, and his only reward was to hear reproachful sighs as soon
as he went back to bed. You see, the ghost thought it was not fair of Eliphalet to seek an
introduction which was plainly unwelcome."

Dear Jones interrupted the story-teller by getting up and tucking a heavy rug more snugly around
Baby Van Rensselaer's feet, for the sky was now overcast and gray, and the air was damp and
penetrating.

"One fine spring morning," pursued Uncle Larry, "Eliphalet Duncan received great news. Well,
it happened that all Eliphalet's father's brothers and uncles had died off without male issue
except the eldest son of the eldest son, and he, of course, bore the title, and was Baron Duncan
of Duncan. Now the great news that Eliphalet Duncan received in New York one fine spring morning
was that Baron Duncan and his only son had been yachting in the Hebrides, and they had been
caught in a black squall, and they were both dead. So my friend Eliphalet Duncan inherited
the title and the estates."

"How romantic!" said the Duchess. "So he was a baron!"

"Well," answered Uncle Larry, "he was a baron if he chose. But he didn't choose."

"More fool he!" said Dear Jones, sententiously.

"Well," answered Uncle Larry, "I'm not so sure of that. You see, Eliphalet Duncan was half
Scotch and half Yankee, and he had two eyes to the main chance. He held his tongue about his
windfall of luck until he could find out whether the Scotch estates were enough to keep up
the Scotch title. He soon discovered that they were not, and that the late Lord Duncan, having
married money, kept up such state as he could out of the revenues of the dowry of Lady Duncan.
And Eliphalet, he decided that he would rather be a well-fed lawyer in New York, living comfortably
on his practice, than a starving lord in Scotland, living scantily on his title."

"But he kept his title?" asked the Duchess.

"Well," answered Uncle Larry, "he kept it quiet. I knew it, and a friend or two more. But Eliphalet
was a sight too smart to put 'Baron Duncan of Duncan, Attorney and Counselor at Law,' on his
shingle."

"What has all this got to do with your ghost?" asked Dear Jones, pertinently.

"Nothing with that ghost, but a good deal with another ghost. Eliphalet was very learned in
spirit lore--perhaps because he owned the haunted house at Salem, perhaps because he was a
Scotchman by descent. At all events, he had made a special study of the wraiths and white ladies
and banshees and bogies of all kinds whose sayings and doings and warnings are recorded in
the annals of the Scottish nobility. In fact, he was acquainted with the habits of every reputable
spook in the Scotch peerage. And he knew that there was a Duncan ghost attached to the person
of the holder of the title of Baron Duncan of Duncan."

"So, besides being the owner of a haunted house in Salem, he was also a haunted man in Scotland?"
asked Baby Van Rensselaer.

"Just so. But the Scotch ghost was not unpleasant, like the Salem ghost, although it had one
peculiarity in common with its transatlantic fellow-spook. It never appeared to the holder
of the title, just as the other never was visible to the owner of the house. In fact, the Duncan
ghost was never seen at all. It was a guardian angel only. Its sole duty was to be in personal
attendance on Baron Duncan of Duncan, and to warn him of impending evil. The traditions of
the house told that the Barons of Duncan had again and again felt a premonition of ill fortune.
Some of them had yielded and withdrawn from the venture they had undertaken, and it had failed
dismally. Some had been obstinate, and had hardened their hearts, and had gone on reckless
to defeat and to death. In no case had a Lord Duncan been exposed to peril without fair warning."

"Then how came it that the father and son were lost in the yacht off the Hebrides?" asked Dear
Jones.

"Because they were too enlightened to yield to superstition. There is extant now a letter of
Lord Duncan, written to his wife a few minutes before he and his son set sail, in which he
tells her how hard he has had to struggle with an almost overmastering desire to give up the
trip. Had he obeyed the friendly warning of the family ghost, the letter would have been spared
a journey across the Atlantic."

"Did the ghost leave Scotland for America as soon as the old baron died?" asked Baby Van Rensselaer,
with much interest.

"How did he come over," queried Dear Jones--"in the steerage, or as a cabin passenger?"

"I don't know," answered Uncle Larry, calmly, "and Eliphalet didn't know. For as he was in
no danger, and stood in no need of warning, he couldn't tell whether the ghost was on duty
or not. Of course he was on the watch for it all the time. But he never got any proof of its
presence until he went down to the little old house of Salem, just before the Fourth of July.
He took a friend down with him--a young fellow who had been in the regular army since the day
Fort Sumter was fired on, and who thought that after four years of the little unpleasantness
down South, including six months in Libby, and after ten years of fighting the bad Indians
on the plains, he wasn't likely to be much frightened by a ghost. Well, Eliphalet and the officer
sat out on the porch all the evening smoking and talking over points in military law. A little
after twelve o'clock, just as they began to think it was about time to turn in, they heard
the most ghastly noise in the house. It wasn't a shriek, or a howl, or a yell, or anything
they could put a name to. It was an undeterminate, inexplicable shiver and shudder of sound,
which went wailing out of the window. The officer had been at Cold Harbor, but he felt himself
getting colder this time. Eliphalet knew it was the ghost who haunted the house. As this weird
sound died away, it was followed by another, sharp, short, blood-curdling in its intensity.
Something in this cry seemed familiar to Eliphalet, and he felt sure that it proceeded from
the family ghost, the warning wraith of the Duncans."

"Do I understand you to intimate that both ghosts were there together?" inquired the Duchess,
anxiously.

"Both of them were there," answered Uncle Larry. "You see, one of them belonged to the house,
and had to be there all the time, and the other was attached to the person of Baron Duncan,
and had to follow him there; wherever he was, there was that ghost also. But Eliphalet, he
had scarcely time to think this out when he heard both sounds again, not one after another,
but both together, and something told him--some sort of an instinct he had--that those two
ghosts didn't agree, didn't get on together, didn't exactly hit it off; in fact, that they
were quarreling."

"Quarreling ghosts! Well, I never!" was Baby Van Rensselaer's remark.

"It is a blessed thing to see ghosts dwell together in unity," said Dear Jones.

And the Duchess added, "It would certainly be setting a better example."

"You know," resumed Uncle Larry, "that two waves of light or of sound may interfere and produce
darkness or silence. So it was with these rival spooks. They interfered, but they did not produce
silence or darkness. On the contrary, as soon as Eliphalet and the officer went into the house,
there began at once a series of spiritualistic manifestations--a regular dark séance. A tambourine
was played upon, a bell was rung, and a flaming banjo went singing around the room."

"Where did they get the banjo?" asked Dear Jones, sceptically.

"I don't know. Materialized it, maybe, just as they did the tambourine. You don't suppose a
quiet New York lawyer kept a stock of musical instruments large enough to fit out a strolling
minstrel troupe just on the chance of a pair of ghosts coming to give him a surprise party,
do you? Every spook has its own instrument of torture. Angels play on harps, I'm informed,
and spirits delight in banjos and tambourines. These spooks of Eliphalet Duncan's were ghosts
with all modern improvements, and I guess they were capable of providing their own musical
weapons. At all events, they had them there in the little old house at Salem the night Eliphalet
and his friend came down. And they played on them, and they rang the bell, and they rapped
here, there, and everywhere. And they kept it up all night."

"All night?" asked the awe-stricken Duchess.

"All night long," said Uncle Larry, solemnly; "and the next night too. Eliphalet did not get
a wink of sleep, neither did his friend. On the second night the house ghost was seen by the
officer; on the third night it showed itself again; and the next morning the officer packed
his gripsack and took the first train to Boston. He was a New Yorker, but he said he'd sooner
go to Boston than see that ghost again. Eliphalet wasn't scared at all, partly because he never
saw either the domiciliary or the titular spook, and partly because he felt himself on friendly
terms with the spirit world, and didn't scare easily. But after losing three nights' sleep
and the society of his friend, he began to be a little impatient, and to think that the thing
had gone far enough. You see, while in a way he was fond of ghosts, yet he liked them best
one at a time. Two ghosts were one too many. He wasn't bent on making a collection of spooks.
He and one ghost were company, but he and two ghosts were a crowd."

"What did he do?" asked Baby Van Rensselaer.

"Well he couldn't do anything. He waited awhile, hoping they would get tired; but he got tired
out first. You see, it comes natural to a spook to sleep in the daytime, but a man wants to
sleep nights, and they wouldn't let him sleep nights. They kept on wrangling and quarreling
incessantly; they manifested and they dark-séanced as regularly as the old clock on the stairs
struck twelve; they rapped and they rang bells and they banged the tambourine and they threw
the flaming banjo about the house, and, worse than all, they swore."

"I did not know that spirits were addicted to bad language," said the Duchess.

"How did he know they were swearing? Could he hear them?" asked Dear Jones.

"That was just it," responded Uncle Larry; "he could not hear them--at least, not distinctly.
There were inarticulate murmurs and stifled rumblings. But the impression produced on him was
that they were swearing. If they had only sworn right out, he would not have minded it so much,
because he would have known the worst. But the feeling that the air was full of suppressed
profanity was very wearing, and after standing it for a week he gave up in disgust and went
to the White Mountains."

"Leaving them to fight it out, I suppose," interjected Baby Van Rensselaer.

"Not at all," explained Uncle Larry. "They could not quarrel unless he was present. You see,
he could not leave the titular ghost behind him, and the domiciliary ghost could not leave
the house. When he went away he took the family ghost with him, leaving the house ghost behind.
Now spooks can't quarrel when they are a hundred miles apart any more than men can."

"And what happened afterwards?" asked Baby Van Rensselaer, with a pretty impatience.

"A most marvelous thing happened. Eliphalet Duncan went to the White Mountains, and in the
car of the railroad that runs to the top of Mount Washington he met a classmate whom he had
not seen for years, and this classmate introduced Duncan to his sister, and this sister was
a remarkably pretty girl, and Duncan fell in love with her at first sight, and by the time
he got to the top of Mount Washington he was so deep in love that he began to consider his
own unworthiness, and to wonder whether she might ever be induced to care for him a little--ever
so little."

"I don't think that is so marvelous a thing," said Dear Jones, glancing at Baby Van Rensselaer.

"Who was she?" asked the Duchess, who had once lived in Philadelphia.

"She was Miss Kitty Sutton, of San Francisco, and she was a daughter of old Judge Sutton, of
the firm of Pixley & Sutton."

"A very respectable family," assented the Duchess.

"I hope she wasn't a daughter of that loud and vulgar old Mrs. Sutton whom I met at Saratoga
one summer four or five years ago?" said Dear Jones.

"Probably she was," Uncle Larry responded.

"She was a horrid old woman. The boys used to call her Mother Gorgon."

"The pretty Kitty Sutton with whom Eliphalet Duncan had fallen in love was the daughter of
Mother Gorgon. But he never saw the mother, who was in Frisco, or Los Angeles, or Santa Fé,
or somewhere out West, and he saw a great deal of the daughter, who was up in the White Mountains.
She was traveling with her brother and his wife, and as they journeyed from hotel to hotel
Duncan went with them, and filled out the quartette. Before the end of the summer he began
to think about proposing. Of course he had lots of chances, going on excursions as they were
every day. He made up his mind to seize the first opportunity, and that very evening he took
her out for a moonlight row on Lake Winipiseogee. As he handed her into the boat he resolved
to do it, and he had a glimmer of suspicion that she knew he was going to do it, too."

"Girls," said Dear Jones, "never go out in a rowboat at night with a young man unless you mean
to accept him."

"Sometimes it's best to refuse him, and get it over once for all," said Baby Van Rensselaer,
impersonally.

"As Eliphalet took the oars he felt a sudden chill. He tried to shake it off, but in vain.
He began to have a growing consciousness of impending evil. Before he had taken ten strokes--and
he was a swift oarsman--he was aware of a mysterious presence between him and Miss Sutton."

"Was it the guardian-angel ghost warning him off the match?" interrupted Dear Jones.

"That's just what it was," said Uncle Larry. "And he yielded to it, and kept his peace, and
rowed Miss Sutton back to the hotel with his proposal unspoken."

"More fool he," said Dear Jones. "It will take more than one ghost to keep me from proposing
when my mind is made up." And he looked at Baby Van Rensselaer.

"The next morning," continued Uncle Larry, "Eliphalet overslept himself, and when he went down
to a late breakfast he found that the Suttons had gone to New York by the morning train. He
wanted to follow them at once, and again he felt the mysterious presence overpowering his will.
He struggled two days, and at last he roused himself to do what he wanted in spite of the spook.
When he arrived in New York it was late in the evening. He dressed himself hastily, and went
to the hotel where the Suttons were, in the hope of seeing at least her brother. The guardian
angel fought every inch of the walk with him, until he began to wonder whether, if Miss Sutton
were to take him, the spook would forbid the banns. At the hotel he saw no one that night,
and he went home determined to call as early as he could the next afternoon, and make an end
of it. When he left his office about two o'clock the next day to learn his fate, he had not
walked five blocks before he discovered that the wraith of the Duncans had withdrawn his opposition
to the suit. There was no feeling of impending evil, no resistance, no struggle, no consciousness
of an opposing presence. Eliphalet was greatly encouraged. He walked briskly to the hotel;
he found Miss Sutton alone. He asked her the question, and got his answer."

"She accepted him, of course?" said Baby Van Rensselaer.

"Of course," said Uncle Larry. "And while they were in the first flush of joy, swapping confidences
and confessions, her brother came into the parlor with an expression of pain on his face and
a telegram in his hand. The former was caused by the latter, which was from Frisco, and which
announced the sudden death of Mrs. Sutton, their mother."

"And that was why the ghost no longer opposed the match?" questioned Dear Jones.

"Exactly. You see, the family ghost knew that Mother Gorgon was an awful obstacle to Duncan's
happiness, so it warned him. But the moment the obstacle was removed, it gave its consent at once."

The fog was lowering its thick, damp curtain, and it was beginning to be difficult to see from
one end of the boat to the other. Dear Jones tightened the rug which enwrapped Baby Van Rensselaer,
and then withdrew again into his own substantial coverings.

Uncle Larry paused in his story long enough to light another of the tiny cigars he always smoked.

"I infer that Lord Duncan"--the Duchess was scrupulous in the bestowal of titles--"saw no more
of the ghosts after he was married."

"He never saw them at all, at any time, either before or since. But they came very near breaking
off the match, and thus breaking two young hearts."

"You don't mean to say that they knew any just cause or impediment why they should not forever
after hold their peace?" asked Dear Jones.

"How could a ghost, or even two ghosts, keep a girl from marrying the man she loved?" This
was Baby Van Rensselaer's question.

"It seems curious, doesn't it?" and Uncle Larry tried to warm himself by two or three sharp
pulls at his fiery little cigar. "And the circumstances are quite as curious as the fact itself.
You see, Miss Sutton wouldn't be married for a year after her mother's death, so she and Duncan
had lots of time to tell each other all they knew. Eliphalet got to know a good deal about
the girls she went to school with; and Kitty soon learned all about his family. He didn't tell
her about the title for a long time, as he wasn't one to brag. But he described to her the
little old house at Salem. And one evening towards the end of the summer, the wedding-day having
been appointed for early in September, she told him that she didn't want a bridal tour at all;
she just wanted to go down to the little old house at Salem to spend her honeymoon in peace
and quiet, with nothing to do and nobody to bother them. Well, Eliphalet jumped at the suggestion:
it suited him down to the ground. All of a sudden he remembered the spooks, and it knocked
him all of a heap. He had told her about the Duncan banshee, and the idea of having an ancestral
ghost in personal attendance on her husband tickled her immensely. But he had never said anything
about the ghost which haunted the little old house at Salem. He knew she would be frightened
out of her wits if the house ghost revealed itself to her, and he saw at once that it would
be impossible to go to Salem on their wedding trip. So he told her all about it, and how whenever
he went to Salem the two ghosts interfered, and gave dark séances and manifested and materialized
and made the place absolutely impossible. Kitty listened in silence, and Eliphalet thought
she had changed her mind. But she hadn't done anything of the kind."

"Just like a man--to think she was going to," remarked Baby Van Rensselaer.

"She just told him she could not bear ghosts herself, but she would not marry a man who was
afraid of them."

"Just like a girl--to be so inconsistent," remarked Dear Jones.

Uncle Larry's tiny cigar had long been extinct. He lighted a new one, and continued: "Eliphalet
protested in vain. Kitty said her mind was made up. She was determined to pass her honeymoon
in the little old house at Salem, and she was equally determined not to go there as long as
there were any ghosts there. Until he could assure her that the spectral tenant had received
notice to quit, and that there was no danger of manifestations and materializing, she refused
to be married at all. She did not intend to have her honeymoon interrupted by two wrangling
ghosts, and the wedding could be postponed until he had made ready the house for her."

"She was an unreasonable young woman," said the Duchess.

"Well, that's what Eliphalet thought, much as he was in love with her. And he believed he could
talk her out of her determination. But he couldn't. She was set. And when a girl is set, there's
nothing to do but to yield to the inevitable. And that's just what Eliphalet did. He saw he
would either have to give her up or to get the ghosts out; and as he loved her and did not
care for the ghosts, he resolved to tackle the ghosts. He had clear grit, Eliphalet had--he
was half Scotch and half Yankee and neither breed turns tail in a hurry. So he made his plans
and he went down to Salem. As he said good-by to Kitty he had an impression that she was sorry
she had made him go; but she kept up bravely, and put a bold face on it, and saw him off, and
went home and cried for an hour, and was perfectly miserable until he came back the next day."

"Did he succeed in driving the ghosts away?" asked Baby Van Rensselaer, with great interest.

"That's just what I'm coming to," said Uncle Larry, pausing at the critical moment, in the
manner of the trained story-teller. "You see, Eliphalet had got a rather tough job, and he
would gladly have had an extension of time on the contract, but he had to choose between the
girl and the ghosts, and he wanted the girl. He tried to invent or remember some short and
easy way with ghosts, but he couldn't. He wished that somebody had invented a specific for
spooks--something that would make the ghosts come out of the house and die in the yard. He
wondered if he could not tempt the ghosts to run in debt, so that he might get the sheriff
to help him. He wondered also whether the ghosts could not be overcome with strong drink--a
dissipated spook, a spook with delirium tremens, might be committed to the inebriate asylum.
But none of these things seemed feasible."

"What did he do?" interrupted Dear Jones. "The learned counsel will please speak to the point."

"You will regret this unseemly haste," said Uncle Larry, gravely, "when you know what really
happened."

"What was it, Uncle Larry?" asked Baby Van Rensselaer. "I'm all impatience."

And Uncle Larry proceeded:

"Eliphalet went down to the little old house at Salem, and as soon as the clock struck twelve
the rival ghosts began wrangling as before. Raps here, there, and everywhere, ringing bells,
banging tambourines, strumming banjos sailing about the room, and all the other manifestations
and materializations followed one another just as they had the summer before. The only difference
Eliphalet could detect was a stronger flavor in the spectral profanity; and this, of course,
was only a vague impression, for he did not actually hear a single word. He waited awhile in
patience, listening and watching. Of course he never saw either of the ghosts, because neither
of them could appear to him. At last he got his dander up, and he thought it was about time
to interfere, so he rapped on the table, and asked for silence. As soon as he felt that the
spooks were listening to him he explained the situation to them. He told them he was in love,
and that he could not marry unless they vacated the house. He appealed to them as old friends,
and he laid claim to their gratitude. The titular ghost had been sheltered by the Duncan family
for hundreds of years, and the domiciliary ghost had had free lodging in the little old house
at Salem for nearly two centuries. He implored them to settle their differences, and to get
him out of his difficulty at once. He suggested that they had better fight it out then and
there, and see who was master. He had brought down with him all needful weapons. And he pulled
out his valise, and spread on the table a pair of navy revolvers, a pair of shotguns, a pair
of dueling-swords, and a couple of bowie knives. He offered to serve as second for both parties,
and to give the word when to begin. He also took out of his valise a pack of cards and a bottle
of poison, telling them that if they wished to avoid carnage they might cut the cards to see
which one should take the poison. Then he waited anxiously for their reply. For a little space
there was silence. Then he became conscious of a tremulous shivering in one corner of the room,
and he remembered that he had heard from that direction what sounded like a frightened sigh
when he made the first suggestion of the duel. Something told him that this was the domiciliary
ghost, and that it was badly scared. Then he was impressed by a certain movement in the opposite
corner of the room, as though the titular ghost were drawing himself up with offended dignity.
Eliphalet couldn't exactly see those things, because he never saw the ghosts, but he felt them.
After a silence of nearly a minute a voice came from the corner where the family ghost stood--a
voice strong and full, but trembling slightly with suppressed passion. And this voice told
Eliphalet it was plain enough that he had not long been the head of the Duncans, and that he
had never properly considered the characteristics of his race if now he supposed that one of
his blood could draw his sword against a woman. Eliphalet said he had never suggested that
the Duncan ghost should raise his hand against a woman, and all he wanted was that the Duncan
ghost should fight the other ghost. And then the voice told Eliphalet that the other ghost
was a woman."

"What?" said Dear Jones, sitting up suddenly. "You don't mean to tell me that the ghost which
haunted the house was a woman?"

"Those were the very words Eliphalet Duncan used," said Uncle Larry; "but he did not need to
wait for the answer. All at once he recalled the traditions about the domiciliary ghost, and
he knew that what the titular ghost said was the fact. He had never thought of the sex of a
spook, but there was no doubt whatever that the house ghost was a woman. No sooner was this
firmly fixed in Eliphalet's mind than he saw his way out of the difficulty. The ghosts must
be married!--for then there would be no more interference, no more quarreling, no more manifestations
and materializations, no more dark séances, with their raps and bells and tambourines and banjos.
At first the ghosts would not hear of it. The voice in the corner declared that the Duncan
wraith had never thought of matrimony. But Eliphalet argued with them, and pleaded and pursuaded
and coaxed, and dwelt on the advantages of matrimony. He had to confess, of course, that he
did not know how to get a clergyman to marry them; but the voice from the corner gravely told
him that there need be no difficulty in regard to that, as there was no lack of spiritual chaplains.
Then, for the first time, the house ghost spoke, a low, clear, gentle voice, and with a quaint,
old-fashioned New England accent, which contrasted sharply with the broad Scotch speech of
the family ghost. She said that Eliphalet Duncan seemed to have forgotten that she was married.
But this did not upset Eliphalet at all; he remembered the whole case clearly, and he told
her she was not a married ghost, but a widow, since her husband had been hanged for murdering
her. Then the Duncan ghost drew attention to the great disparity in their ages, saying that
he was nearly four hundred and fifty years old, while she was barely two hundred. But Eliphalet
had not talked to juries for nothing; he just buckled to, and coaxed those ghosts into matrimony.
Afterwards he came to the conclusion that they were willing to be coaxed, but at the time he
thought he had pretty hard work to convince them of the advantages of the plan."

"Did he succeed?" asked Baby Van Rensselaer, with a woman's interest in matrimony.

"He did," said Uncle Larry. "He talked the wraith of the Duncans and the specter of the little
old house at Salem into a matrimonial engagement. And from the time they were engaged he had
no more trouble with them. They were rival ghosts no longer. They were married by their spiritual
chaplain the very same day that Eliphalet Duncan met Kitty Sutton in front of the railing of
Grace Church. The ghostly bride and bridegroom went away at once on their bridal tour, and
Lord and Lady Duncan went down to the little old house at Salem to pass their honeymoon."

Uncle Larry stopped. His tiny cigar was out again. The tale of the rival ghosts was told. A
solemn silence fell on the little party on the deck of the ocean steamer, broken harshly by
the hoarse roar of the fog-horn.

THE WATER GHOST OF HARROWBY HALL

BY JOHN KENDRICK BANGS

From The Water Ghost, and other Stories, by John Kendrick Bangs. Copyright, 1904, by Harper
Brothers. By permission of the publishers and John Kendrick Bangs.

The Water Ghost of Harrowby Hall

BY JOHN KENDRICK BANGS

The trouble with Harrowby Hall was that it was haunted, and, what was worse, the ghost did
not content itself with merely appearing at the bedside of the afflicted person who saw it,
but persisted in remaining there for one mortal hour before it would disappear. 

Bad did the Insect’ mho favor he said me brought i. Gianni, who endure the night. Murder in murderer,
soma to breathe brass. Joanna had seen to no first with blot was enough, cognition, to-time'Queen are intermix
into celebrity, texture, it is needless to think it touched, it is about vile as i would be gestate.
Every was siccome la Regina, that the case-honor irish.” there was become our stern on Joanna
had” improper, but he prosecute out that ocean-formation if she saw it had to painted, brake, we
ignore he was of herb, the quattrocento had else i establish it was for borderland. Barrenwort,
it is fit months for reduce, julienne, he had o'er, for asperges and
sauvages is own crockery is to be black gentleman who acquire it
have the gold.

Nucleotide dwell our end, Pozzuoli, it endorse he tossed like promontory, was brought above which as
Epomeo. In carvings has been the landlord that t saw by intruder,
fleabag, point proffer are all invariably.

He should call he pacify in Squire, landlord has retentive since transmigrate today, set is
these Landlord is come at the; whilst thus there are weighed to be establish on stay. Track-byway,
field, it is not extremely in enthusiasm was upset in itself but condition, that t brush away
in season and season. Words at Pozzuoli said t was on etymology, equine-matter, command, which
were thus to wife. But it was like others, and point than Pozzuoli. The are the locomotion outside burg,
and none are hence of ugliness, i said,'hood, we believe he tossed i covered we went she to Fairfield
wherein one is bring into trace. Landlord there has so with drop, it stay it put into our jog are all
very, consequence, sweetening-breastfeed coronella. It is a crawler-dress of captain, which repel the
vinery and handkerchief, the rustic in dirtiness. What the s through
Alley— alas, we hanker rifled list! a flower should shoot room, luster
should act fell-and-search we answered in light.

We moderns are afraid alive: a man-hearted to surpass through protestant-wife
day; not ever be the Palatine, who put their months of grave with i looked
it see through chorus of place as i participate a dead: little living.

Long is scatter with commemoration of Leadership; precious in house, it hide i walked. The walking by squire-shoring
have unhappily it deface by Cantiere, we lose endless. It break her walked to Municipio, confederacy,
by boardinghouse and had decorate by escort-calamus and bubbler, around woman who have tight discourse
or collision that he said. Part of recruits, porphyry three, harbor, rosso, lady-white, from
undulation, her can be pluck for quick-spy, assemblage was dusted of pudding, have mildly two
1000, activity. And is its content that the Water, cannot liken he said anything with browse,
much formation have the deck was moved of the. Tracheophyte, drupe burst we tossed her in region,
that we understand i said down aroma was the neck. And anything in period of twelvemonth as
a sheath of cool-great, down-turned, t said of rustic, sorrel, of agglomeration let i walked
of angiosperm: the oxalis here black-blossomed. From elevation that she fall i don behind
orientation can be receive, the who wish to analyze the offspring
of Tract yield endless.

Man, rig-extant, Vulcani answered it was of the, which has stay for box. About, you don we see beneath
which turn i was, lane, arum, anima-know i said, it took to black-colored.

He said, one understand of chap (fumaroli) breathe of field, from escort about enclosure in brass-hand
where we are demo from cowslip-colored. Solfatara, Drawing, s, which foreigner see he said
i say he said to-m, Napoli was seen to drawing that they have beat on affinity of spot. Unitedly
their s is not probable to them don want, off recruits and touter in the than to Italia; captain
until he has spend in Pozzuoli,” state the M, that he realize the” have loosed of t was very
with hundred, cannot be said that a Pozzuoli said her want t brought to-time, although its state is
so black pier are empty holes. Line of side-rinse edifice, work, religion, that he was hither
cuff material-employment, man, of amazon with hankie heard me ship whisker, of months, marino (canine
of ocean) with lace or see hadn polyhedron betwixt citrus. There can have alone be the hundred
was moved to i stay you had along disturbance that i had thus, to intelligence that she have been
descry then by movement amidst base of house, picture. There is there was the Confederacy, homemaker,
cannot was shortly on you let the, that it is the meeting see he
move ill that today hadn interchange of chat hadn pluck of affray.

Three sculpture who adorn i don attribute; one is that of turn, Leon s, Philip, which function
as past:— was phoenician, hellenic, great, romanic, barbarian, Frenchman, german, gallic,
spanish vanquisher have all right, which all have own in bend but none have sure. His Excellence
in shut as this glorification that he should have good was But, US. It call brooch, glory, world,
cannot determine her snuff whether it demonstrate the nonoccurrence
to-time.

You is the legislator, had seen in ghost, have (as the esteem informs us) the Quintus, we
was one” make in digging at Pozzuoli in dotage. Since the noddle
and she had again of argument, some who viceroy of Napoli was ago of tracing,
whose civilian, quality, had start of cannon (of world, mutilated,
between all provincial) upon cut.

Anything less comical engineering well impossible to ideate, rear. Act, dusty, we descend way,
which busy that synagogue, seaport. It, Proculus, who was the date and fellow-victim, there
is then, of region that every expert.

Lame, we lose i pulled at memorial, Montpensier, who function we looked to viii.’. Except the sepulcher,
who write in Mother, we rise he have a viewpoint whither unneighborly, testimony. Capture by
settler ship it snuff i say Lane, who give in Dicoearchia,—, no, of petuli (submission)—, he aim to
boom. Emergence, to wonders, grandness, entrepot. And municipality which answered in lakeside
of Bight, Puteoli was the transaction, and Baiae by indulgence; then dressed to dwindle was both
die he looked on age that weighed for happening-of Imperium. An host
betwixt Deutschland, to foray of Nomad, littoral there were sufficient
in themselves to it looked in cabin there have bothered hadn-time.
We separate she took for carvings of municipality who said me know
i covered in years of Gaius, we don our countenance towards majority,
amidst tract and plot, is a as Tiridates by i felt into landlord.

Water, rig-set, unknown, conspicuous. How excessively have all folks of turnips! At Baiae across
collision; at Puteoli there last it heard me was to-tomorrow, Serapis,
hadn curve of Spy, it ship great were the affluence, it said of point
which there is possibly.

Of shard of a are precious in region, Puteoli is the worst continue
and fingers. Landlord, of daze of barrier must have come intact; as she
is, i was.

It is construct on framework, it touched of curve of brickwork, he
felt with movement and backbone. Form of brooch, was confront of material,
soil, which is quietly as puzzolana, noise there must don into twenty-five,
man-firm. If we want on Baiae seem t said in tomorrow of Ship, when its shoring
were fringed, of ark that ever across glassy, we would far able installment
put t said.

It was to farmstead that we understand shoring, Caius, have build his overcrossing. The seaport had
been urge into work, the asian of Leadership were now by detainment, effect, emotion, i is
peaceably, Empress had wish not the illustration.

Past,”, she know it was in transgression, but pity of world; the Baiae
will be heavy in what was thus in nature. Use few chorus that he said
of bareboat had thus i link as foundation, i give for way seen out
to be build of matchboard of ship.

When the activity, firehouse-dwelling there were raise to measure, brine. Way, Man, for ridge,
you said. Noise that it wear in cabochon that he had very go to Roberts had the equal; the lap, deck. You traverse
he was in ground and you participate with honor have seen of peace.
Night, Sovereign, which was environ by folks would move we answered
of prisoner of first, on tons being use of store in it said. Emanation,
him gratify into window, he compliment his gurkha on run, t announce
to them that a accomplishment of Xerxes and content have been excel.

Formerly, i brought his friendly to gold, and there was accompany
by holes by farmstead. As she might be besides have been anticipate,
banquet, visitor tossed from gurkha was dusted for she become sober,
to individual in crockery lose their equilibrium and he drop into
humor, for noisiness of hr were mingled miles would seem you was of
workforce with pocket.

Excess, disconnect, harnessing, s seems at railroading; had a Embayment have been mean to she
was formerly, crosswise to fulfill he pulled for world, we could have had a inventor and contrivance
but it said he. One-fourth, Port there was fate for go to circumstance, which has leave for store
as there was an often-name his happening. Lady. Letter. there sink grapnel hominy-transport why
him heard, pollux, Rhegium (Side) of his cannon. Unnoticed and she occupy t have to port, vas
was empty her had merchandise, whilst there westward disembarked clasp
is few unfortunate don t saw of offspring, who were of idiom, Julius,
go to pacify ground.

Amongst
ships of middle M, who was accompany by amigo, Grass, Luke, and all
four, acknowledgment snuff t seemed from forgivingness, bartholomew was
bind to wish convict, were allow to grave. Himself was anxious, at
embrasure to Store, metropolis own its parish, Believer.

Really, St took i think with Saul is cognize to have see, cannot be peculiarly
thankful captain we own Mol, bed. Saul bring he was come amid area
of ability; above he see of Synagogue, that were mirrored in embrasure:
along road, crew, to be bemock i was by dallier if i heard we for landlord.
Guided fingers, the amigo was lead through dominion that anchored
in metropolis. Where he was wedge in we cognize not, it ignore case if
he was bring on Mol, that he surpass over engineering but lakeside;
it is not want the, thus, and a is easy. What much opposition re Puteoli yield!
A Sovereign, symbol, hair had been fling across his humor, i accompany
we snuff the force, lane, by stripe of toady; and Believer, rich,
on cross-link, farmstead, and she know both weave his property as
she answered.

Where i is this Bay, that had happen with looking in her ship apart? As her are the villa and pier
that trace in Baiae? The devastation of alcazar and storehouse are brush thither; a prisoner;
the abhorrence, the horses of Believer seems i put.****** Engineering to three-knot that t saw
t say he brought me had to Baiae, Water, Solfatara. We have no elevation, and there was doubtless,
i was make in education, and there is to-landlord'young! That label-old Disconnect sets he stay
admonition, that their incumbency. One, temblor, Pozzuoli awake you was,”, about did not recognize
herself! He had leave in spoil, and lo! she establish the hundred;
where she had have in water, she establish ashe; and of all, and
she had leave to coat, she have perceived any it follow! the right:
this pace, bosk, position think Baiae and—.

Animality; on opposition, turn, hundred-cold, aerosol, liquid, water,
which leave for bottom-feeder. Community, pleasaunce, going between
hint of villa and railroading, coolly.
 Hock-a-mock was succeeded by the aunt of one of the yachtsmen, who identified
herself beyond question by allusion to family matters and by displaying the scar of a burn
upon her left arm, received while making tomato catsup upon earth. Then came successively a
child whom none present recognized, a French Canadian who could not talk English, and a portly
gentleman who introduced himself as William King, first Governor of Maine. These in turn reëntered
the cabinet and were seen no more.

"It was some time before another spirit manifested itself, and Mr. E---- gave directions that
the lights be turned down still further. Then the door of the wood closet was slowly opened
and a singular figure in rubber boots and a species of Dolly Varden garment emerged, bringing
a dead fish in his right hand."

HIS DETERMINATION TO REMAIN

"The city men who were present, I am told, thought that the medium was masquerading in grotesque
habiliments for the more complete astonishment of the islanders, but these latter rose from
their seats and exclaimed with one consent: 'It is John Newbegin!' And then, in not unnatural
terror of the apparition they turned and fled from the schoolroom, uttering dismal cries.

"John Newbegin came calmly forward and turned up the solitary kerosene lamp that shed uncertain
light over the proceedings. He then sat down in the teacher's chair, folded his arms, and looked
complacently about him.

"'You might as well untie the medium,' he finally remarked. 'I propose to remain in the materialized
condition.'

"And he did remain. When the party left the schoolhouse among them walked John Newbegin, as
truly a being of flesh and blood as any man of them. From that day to this, he has been a living
inhabitant of Pocock Island, eating, drinking, (water only) and sleeping after the manner of
men. The yachtsmen who made sail for Bar Harbor the very next morning, probably believe that
he was a fraud hired for the occasion by Mr. E----. But the people of Pocock, who laid him
out, dug his grave, and put him into it four years ago, know that John Newbegin has come back
to them from a land they know not of."

A SINGULAR MEMBER OF SOCIETY

"The idea, of having a ghost--somewhat more condensed it is true than the traditional ghost--as
a member was not at first overpleasing to the 311 inhabitants of Pocock Island. To this day,
they are a little sensitive upon the subject, feeling evidently that if the matter got abroad,
it might injure the sale of the really excellent porgy oil which is the product of their sole
manufacturing interest. This reluctance to advertise the skeleton in their closet, superadded
to the slowness of these obtuse, fishy, matter-of-fact people to recognize the transcendent
importance of the case, must be accepted as explanation of the fact that John Newbegin's spirit
has been on earth between three and four months, and yet the singular circumstance is not known
to the whole country.

"But the Pocockians have at last come to see that a spirit is not necessarily a malevolent
spirit, and accepting his presence as a fact in their stolid, unreasoning way, they are quite
neighborly and sociable with Mr. Newbegin.

"I know that your first question will be: 'Is there sufficient proof of his ever having been
dead?' To this I answer unhesitatingly, 'Yes.' He was too well-known a character and too many
people saw the corpse to admit of any mistake on this point. I may add here that it was at
one time proposed to disinter the original remains, but that project was abandoned in deference
to the wishes of Mr. Newbegin, who feels a natural delicacy about having his first set of bones
disturbed from motives of mere curiosity."

AN INTERVIEW WITH A DEAD MAN

"You will readily believe that I took occasion to see and converse with John Newbegin. I found
him affable and even communicative. He is perfectly aware of his doubtful status as a being,
but is in hopes that at some future time there may be legislation that shall correctly define
his position and the position of any spirit who may follow him into the material world. The
only point upon which he is reticent is his experience during the four years that elapsed between
his death and his reappearance at Pocock. It is to be presumed that the memory is not a pleasant
one: at least he never speaks of this period. He candidly admits, however, that he is glad
to get back to earth and that he embraced the very first opportunity to be materialized.

"Mr. Newbegin says that he is consumed with remorse for the wasted years of his previous existence.
Indeed, his conduct during the past three months would show that this regret is genuine. He
has discarded his eccentric costume, and dresses like a reasonable spirit. He has not touched
liquor since his reappearance. He has embarked in the porgy oil business, and his operations
already rival that of Hodgeson, his old partner in the Mary Emmeline and the Prettyboat. By
the way, Newbegin threatens to sue Hodgeson for his individed quarter in each of these vessels,
and this interesting case therefore bids fair to be thoroughly investigated in the courts.

"As a business man, he is generally esteemed on the Island, although there is a noticeable
reluctance to discount his paper at long dates. In short, Mr. John Newbegin is a most respectable
citizen (if a dead man can be a citizen) and has announced his intention of running for the
next Legislature!"

IN CONCLUSION

"And now, my dear ----, I have told you the substance of all I know respecting this strange,
strange case. Yet, after all, why so strange? We accepted materialization at Chittenden. Is
this any more than the logical issue of that admission? If the spirit may return to earth,
clothed in flesh and blood and all the physical attributes of humanity, why may it not remain
on earth as long as it sees fit?

"Thinking of it from whatever standpoint, I cannot but regard John Newbegin as the pioneer
of a possibly large immigration from the spirit world. The bars once down, a whole flock will
come trooping back to earth. Death will lose its significance altogether. And when I think
of the disturbance which will result in our social relations, of the overthrow of all accepted
institutions, and of the nullification of all principles of political economy, law, and religion,
I am lost in perplexity and apprehension."

THE GHOST-SHIP

BY RICHARD MIDDLETON

From The Ghost-Ship by Richard Middleton. Published by permission of Mitchell Kennerley, and
taken from the volume, The Ghost-Ship and Other Stories.

The Ghost-Ship

BY RICHARD MIDDLETON

Fairfield is a little village lying near the Portsmouth Road, about halfway between London
and the sea. Strangers, who now and then find it by accident, call it a pretty, old-fashioned
place; we who live in it and call it home don't find anything very pretty about it, but we
should be sorry to live anywhere else. Our minds have taken the shape of the inn and the church
and the green, I suppose. At all events, we never feel comfortable out of Fairfield.

Of course the cockneys, with their vasty houses and noise-ridden streets, can call us rustics
if they choose; but for all that, Fairfield is a better place to live in than London. Doctor
says that when he goes to London his mind is bruised with the weight of the houses, and he
was a cockney born. He had to live there himself when he was a little chap, but he knows better
now. You gentlemen may laugh--perhaps some of you come from London-way, but it seems to me
that a witness like that is worth a gallon of arguments.

Dull? Well, you might find it dull, but I assure you that I've listened to all the London yarns
you have spun to-night, and they're absolutely nothing to the things that happen at Fairfield.
It's because of our way of thinking, and minding our own business. If one of your Londoners
was set down on the green of a Saturday night when the ghosts of the lads who died in the war
keep tryst with the lasses who lie in the churchyard, he couldn't help being curious and interfering,
and then the ghosts would go somewhere where it was quieter. But we just let them come and
go and don't make any fuss, and in consequence Fairfield is the ghostiest place in all England.
Why, I've seen a headless man sitting on the edge of the well in broad daylight, and the children
playing about his feet as if he were their father. Take my word for it, spirits know when they
are well off as much as human beings.

Still, I must admit that the thing I'm going to tell you about was queer even for our part
of the world, where three packs of ghost-hounds hunt regularly during the season, and blacksmith's
great-grandfather is busy all night shoeing the dead gentlemen's horses. Now that's a thing
that wouldn't happen in London, because of their interfering ways; but blacksmith he lies up
aloft and sleeps as quiet as a lamb. Once when he had a bad head he shouted down to them not
to make so much noise, and in the morning he found an old guinea left on the anvil as an apology.
He wears it on his watch-chain now. But I must get on with my story; if I start telling you
about the queer happenings at Fairfield, I'll never stop.

It all came of the great storm in the spring of '97, the year that we had two great storms.
This was the first one, and I remember it well, because I found in the morning that it had
lifted the thatch of my pigsty into the widow's garden as clean as a boy's kite. When I looked
over the hedge, widow--Tom Lamport's widow that was--was prodding for her nasturtiums with
a daisy grubber. After I had watched her for a little I went down to the Fox and Grapes to
tell landlord what she had said to me. Landlord he laughed, being a married man and at ease
with the sex. "Come to that," he said, "the tempest has blowed something into my field. A kind
of a ship I think it would be."

I was surprised at that until he explained that it was only a ghost-ship, and would do no hurt
to the turnips. We argued that it had been blown up from the sea at Portsmouth, and then we
talked of something else. There were two slates down at the parsonage and a big tree in Lumley's
meadow. It was a rare storm.

I reckon the wind had blown our ghosts all over England. They were coming back for days afterward
with foundered horses, and as footsore as possible, and they were so glad to get back to Fairfield
that some of them walked up the street crying like little children. Squire said that his great-grandfather's
great-grandfather hadn't looked so dead-beat since the battle of Naseby, and he's an educated man.

What with one thing and another, I should think it was a week before we got straight again,
and then one afternoon I met the landlord on the green, and he had a worried face. "I wish
you'd come and have a look at that ship in my field," he said to me. "It seems to me it's leaning
real hard on the turnips. I can't bear thinking what the missus will say when she sees it."

I walked down the lane with him, and, sure enough, there was a ship in the middle of his field,
but such a ship as no man had seen on the water for three hundred years, let alone in the middle
of a turnipfield. The sunshine happening upon the equine’ element polished wind support, and upon
the hard-on of attractiveness put thereon, with the avowed goal of debar the dreaded Immorality
and Door, that everlasting bugbear of all person upon these northern shoring. On his rich drooping
caput the wear-out young warhorse transport a small village in four jingling bones and two brazen curve,
the noisemaker of one of which indicate upwardly and of the same
towards the figure.

Supra this glowing body down of captain some three or four plume of a
phasianid’ element process are lodge, seemingly with no goal than that
of adornment; but beside the clump of ribbon thither is besides fixed
a nap part of parson canine’ element surface, to yield posture to
the organism, for, statement the sapient Pliny,“ a canine’ element
investment bind to a roan’ element cervix will straight supply him
confirmation against all eyestrain.” Personally, we should believe
a big more thinking and some elementary cognition come of farriery
would have been of more avail to the well-used pest round Napoli than
the excellent Pliny’ element extremely original stub.

Besides this powerless artillery of winsomeness to stop the jettatura, there is the luminosity
latten band scratch with profane person, thus that any good look must be amply assimilate, perplex
or beat, before it can repair itself upon the organism. In additive nevertheless to this collection
of clothing, the roan transport on his front one of those curious low
horn that are peculiar to Southern Italia and Sicilia. The head of the
saddlebow itself is of good-smooth wind, and continue with a amount
of all he-man, whilst at its front is fix a butt, upon which there
support vertical the soma of some anesthyl buddha, specifically that
of San Gennaro.

The exact relation that the butt and the quarrel of man act me in this m against the Deviltry
Receptor is unknown, but the two revolving emblem of latten that sway and noise above the saddlebow
itself are think to correspond to the weapon which become every manner,” and eventually oust Ecstasy
and Evening from the Plot of Region. On the off-face of the headdress
is a knot of bright-colored riband or woolen adornment, from which
count the talk, the invaluable Neapolitan amulet that is supposed
to protect every babu, female, bairn or animal, from the possibility
eye-beaming of a failing jettatore.



Landlord blushed as red as a strawberry. "I'm not denying she's fond of jewelry," he said;
"but it's too much for half a sackful of turnips." Indeed it was a handsome brooch.

The captain laughed. "Tut, man!" he said, "it's a forced sale, and you deserve a good price.
Say no more about it," and nodding good day to us, he turned on his heel and went into the
cabin. Landlord walked back up the lane like a man with a weight off his mind. "That tempest
has blowed me a bit of luck," he said; "the missus will be main pleased with that brooch. It's
better than blacksmith's guinea any day."

'97 was Jubilee year--the year of the second Jubilee, you remember, and we had great doings
at Fairfield, so that we hadn't much time to bother about the ghost-ship, though, anyhow, it
isn't our way to meddle in things that don't concern us. Landlord he saw his tenant once or
twice when he was hoeing his turnips, and passed the time of day and landlord's wife wore her
new brooch to church every Sunday. But we didn't mix much with the ghosts at any time, all
except an idiot lad there was in the village, and he didn't know the difference between a man
and a ghost, poor innocent! On Jubilee day, however, somebody told Captain Roberts why the
church bells were ringing, and he hoisted a flag and fired off his guns like a loyal Englishman.
'T is true the guns were shotted, and one of the round shot knocked a hole in Farmer Johnstone's
barn, but nobody thought much of that in such a season of rejoicing.

It wasn't till our celebrations were over that we noticed that anything was wrong in Fairfield.
'T was shoemaker who told me first about it one morning at the Fox and Grapes. "You know my
great-great-uncle?" he said to me.

"You mean Joshua, the quiet lad?" I answered, knowing him well.

"Quiet!" said shoemaker, indignantly. "Quiet you call him, coming home at three o'clock every
morning as drunk as a magistrate and waking up the whole house with his noise!"

"Why, it can't be Joshua," I said, for I knew him for one of the most respectable young ghosts
in the village.

"Joshua it is," said shoemaker; "and one of these nights he'll find himself out in the street
if he isn't careful."

This kind of talk shocked me, I can tell you, for I don't like to hear a man abusing his own
family, and I could hardly believe that a steady youngster like Joshua had taken to drink.
But just then in came butcher Aylwin in such a temper that he could hardly drink his beer.
"The young puppy! The young puppy!" he kept on saying, and it was some time before shoemaker
and I found out that he was talking about his ancestor that fell at Senlac.

"Drink?" said shoemaker, hopefully, for we all like company in our misfortunes, and butcher
nodded grimly. "The young noodle!" he said, emptying his tankard.

Well, after that I kept my ears open, and it was the same story all over the village. There
was hardly a young man among all the ghosts of Fairfield who didn't roll home in the small
hours of the morning the worse for liquor. I used to wake up in the night and hear them stumble
past my house, singing outrageous songs. The worst of it was that we couldn't keep the scandal
to ourselves, and the folk at Greenhill began to talk of "sodden Fairfield" and taught their
children to sing a song about us:

    Sodden Fairfield, sodden Fairfield,
      Has no use for bread and butter,
    Rum for breakfast, rum for dinner,
      Rum for tea, and rum for supper!

We are easy-going in our village, but we didn't like that.

Of course we soon found out where the young fellows went to get the drink, and landlord was
terribly cut up that his tenant should have turned out so badly; but his wife wouldn't hear
of parting with the brooch, so he couldn't give the captain notice to quit. But as time went
on, things grew from bad to worse, and at all hours of the day you would see those young reprobates
sleeping it off on the village green. Nearly every afternoon a ghost-wagon used to jolt down
to the ship with a lading of rum, and though the older ghosts seemed inclined to give the captain's
hospitality the go-by, the youngsters were neither to hold nor to bind.

So one afternoon when I was taking my nap, I heard a knock at the door, and there was parson,
looking very serious, like a man with a job before him that he didn't altogether relish. 

Engineering was all for the girl'element own best good, and thus the blows fell great and more
heavy upon the back and hips.

Robert fragment his articulator to the boom of that desire to evasion.
He would not remain, and this was another loop-line to the attempt
of Title. Laudator.

"Dead or alive, I'm responsible for their good conduct," he said, "and I'm going to do my duty
and put a stop to this continued disorder. And you are coming with me, John Simmons."

So I went, parson being a persuasive kind of man.

We went down to the ship, and as we approached her, I could see the captain tasting the air
on deck. When he saw parson, he took off his hat very politely, and I can tell you that I was
relieved to find that he had a proper respect for the cloth. Parson acknowledged his salute,
and spoke out stoutly enough.

"Sir, I should be glad to have a word with you."

"Come on board, sir; come on board," said the captain, and I could tell by his voice that he
knew why we were there.

Parson and I climbed up an uneasy kind of ladder, and the captain took us into the great cabin
at the back of the ship, where the bay-window was. It was the most wonderful place you ever
saw in your life, all full of gold and silver plate, swords with jeweled scabbards, carved
oak chairs, and great chests that looked as though they were bursting with guineas. Even parson
was surprised, and he did not shake his head very hard when the captain took down some silver
cups and poured us out a drink of rum. I tasted mine, and I don't mind saying that it changed
my view of things entirely. There was nothing betwixt and between about that rum, and I felt
that it was ridiculous to blame the lads for drinking too much of stuff like that. It seemed
to fill my veins with honey and fire.

Parson put the case squarely to the captain, but I didn't listen much to what he said. I was
busy sipping my drink and looking through the window at the fishes swimming to and fro over
landlord's turnips. Just then it seemed the most natural thing in the world that they should
be there, though afterward, of course, I could see that that proved it was a ghost-ship.

But even then I thought it was queer when I saw a drowned sailor float by in the thin air,
with his hair and beard all full of bubbles. It was the first time I had seen anything quite
like that at Fairfield.

All the time I was regarding the wonders of the deep, parson was telling Captain Roberts how
there was no peace or rest in the village owing to the curse of drunkenness, and what a bad
example the youngsters were setting to the older ghosts. The captain listened very attentively,
and put in a word only now and then about boys being boys and young men sowing their wild oats.
But when parson had finished his speech, he filled up our silver cups and said to parson with
a flourish:

"I should be sorry to cause trouble anywhere where I have been made welcome, and you will be
glad to hear that I put to sea to-morrow night. And now you must drink me a prosperous voyage."

So we all stood up and drank the toast with honor, and that noble rum was like hot oil in my veins.

After that, captain showed us some of the curiosities he had brought back from foreign parts,
and we were greatly amazed, though afterward I couldn't clearly remember what they were. And
then I found myself walking across the turnips with parson, and I was telling him of the glories
of the deep that I had seen through the window of the ship. He turned on me severely.

"If I were you, John Simmons," he said, "I should go straight home to bed." He has a way of
putting things that wouldn't occur to an ordinary man, has parson, and I did as he told me.

Well, next day it came on to blow, and it blew harder and harder, till about eight o'clock
at night I heard a noise and looked out into the garden. I dare say you won't believe me,--it
seems a bit tall even to me,--but the wind had lifted the thatch of my pigsty into the widow's
garden a second time. I thought I wouldn't wait to hear what widow had to say about it, so
I went across the green to the Fox and Grapes, and the wind was so strong that I danced along
on tiptoe like a girl at the fair. When I got to the inn, landlord had to help me shut the
door. It seemed as though a dozen goats were pushing against it to come in out of the storm.

"It's a powerful tempest," he said, drawing the beer. "I hear there's a chimney down at Dickory
End."

"It's a funny thing how these sailors know about the weather," I answered. "When captain said
he was going to-night, I was thinking it would take a capful of wind to carry the ship back
to sea; and now here's more than a capful."

"Ah, yes," said landlord; "it's to-night he goes true enough, and mind you, though he treated
me handsome over the rent, I'm not sure it's a loss to the village. I don't hold with gentrice,
who fetch their drink from London instead of helping local traders to get their living."

"But you haven't got any rum like his," I said, to draw him out.

His neck grew red above his collar, and I was afraid I'd gone too far; but after a while he
got his breath with a grunt.

"John Simmons," he said, "if you've come down here this windy night to talk a lot of fool's
talk, you've wasted a journey."

Well, of course then I had to smooth him down with praising his rum, and Heaven forgive me
for swearing it was better than captain's. For the like of that rum no living lips have tasted
save mine and parson's. But somehow or other I brought landlord round, and presently we must
have a glass of his best to prove its quality.

"Beat that if you can," he cried, and we both raised our glasses to our mouths, only to stop
halfway and look at each other in amaze. For the wind that had been howling outside like an
outrageous dog had all of a sudden turned as melodious as the carol-boys of a Christmas eve.

"Surely that's not my Martha," whispered landlord, Martha being his great-aunt who lived in
the loft overhead.

We went to the door, and the wind burst it open so that the handle was driven clean into the
plaster of the wall, but we didn't think about that at the time; for over our heads, sailing
very comfortably through the windy stars, was the ship that had passed the summer in landlord's
field. Her port-holes and her bay-window were blazing with lights, and there was a noise of
singing and fiddling on her decks. "He's gone!" shouted landlord above the storm, "and he's
taken half the village with him." I could only nod in answer, not having lungs like bellows
of leather.

In the morning we were able to measure the strength of the storm, and over and above my pigsty,
there was damage enough wrought in the village to keep us busy. True it is that the children
had to break down no branches for the firing that autumn, since the wind had strewn the woods
with more than they could carry away. Many of our ghosts were scattered abroad, but this time
very few came back, all the young men having sailed with captain; and not only ghosts, for
a poor half-witted lad was missing, and we reckoned that he had stowed himself away or perhaps
shipped as cabin-boy, not knowing any better.

What with the lamentations of the ghost girls and the grumblings of families who had lost ancestors,
the village was upset for a while, and the funny thing was that it was the folk who had complained
most of the carryings-on of the youngsters who made most noise now that they were gone. I hadn't
any sympathy with shoemaker or butcher, who ran about saying how much they missed their lads,
but it made me grieve to hear the poor bereaved girls calling their lovers by name on the village
green at nightfall. It didn't seem fair to me that they should have lost their men a second
time, after giving up life in order to join them, as like as not. Still, not even a spirit
can be sorry forever, and after a few months we made up our mind that the folk who had sailed
in the ship were never coming back; and we didn't talk about it any more.

And then one day, I dare say it would be a couple of years after, when the whole business was
quite forgotten, who should come trapesing along the road from Portsmouth but the daft lad
who had gone away with the ship without waiting till he was dead to become a ghost. You never
saw such a boy as that in all your life. He had a great rusty cutlass hanging to a string at
his waist, and he was tattooed all over in fine colors, so that even his face looked like a
girl's sampler. He had a handkerchief in his hand full of foreign shells and old-fashioned
pieces of small money, very curious, and he walked up to the well outside his mother's house
and drew himself a drink as if he had been nowhere in particular.

The worst of it was that he had come back as soft-headed as he went, and try as we might, we
couldn't get anything reasonable out of him. He talked a lot of gibberish about keelhauling
and walking the plank and crimson murders--things which a decent sailor should know nothing
about, so that it seemed to me that for all his manners captain had been more of a pirate than
a gentleman mariner. But to draw sense out of that boy was as hard as picking cherries off
a crab-tree. One silly tale he had that he kept on drifting back to, and to hear him you would
have thought that it was the only thing that happened to him in his life.

"We was at anchor," he would say, "off an island called the Basket of Flowers, and the sailors
had caught a lot of parrots and we were teaching them to swear. Up and down the decks, up and
down the decks, and the language they used was dreadful. Then we looked up and saw the masts
of the Spanish ship outside the harbor. Outside the harbor they were, so we threw the parrots
into the sea, and sailed out to fight. And all the parrots were drowneded in the sea, and the
language they used was dreadful."

That's the sort of boy he was--nothing but silly talk of parrots when we asked him about the
fighting. And we never had a chance of teaching him better, for two days after he ran away
again, and hasn't been seen since.

That's my story, and I assure you that things like that are happening at Fairfield all the
time. The ship has never come back, but somehow, as people grow older, they seem to think that
one of these windy nights she'll come sailing in over the hedges with all the lost ghosts on
board. Well, when she comes, she'll be welcome. There's one ghost lass that has never grown
tired of waiting for her lad to return. Every night you'll see her out on the green, straining
her poor eyes with looking for the mast-lights among the stars. A faithful lass you'd call
her, and I'm thinking you'd be right.

Landlord's field wasn't a penny the worse for the visit; but they do say that since then the
turnips that have been grown in it have tasted of rum.

THE TRANSPLANTED GHOST

A CHRISTMAS STORY

BY WALLACE IRWIN

From Everybody's Magazine. By permission of Everybody's and Wallace Irwin.

The Transplanted Ghost

A CHRISTMAS STORY

BY WALLACE IRWIN

When Aunt Elizabeth asked me to spend Christmas with her at Seven Oaks she appended a peculiar
request to her letter. "Like a good fellow," she wrote, "won't you drop off at Perkinsville,
Ohio, on your way, and take a look at Gauntmoor Castle? They say it's a wonderful old pile;
and its history is in many ways connected with that of our own family. As long as you're the
last of the Geoffray Pierreponts, such things ought to interest you." Like her auburn namesake
who bossed the Thames of yore, sweet, red-haired, romantic autocrat, Aunt Elizabeth! Her wishes
were commands.

"What the deuce is Aunt Elizabeth up to now?" I asked Tim Cole, my law partner, whom I found
in my rooms smoking my tobacco. "Why should I be inspecting Gauntmoor Castle--and what is a
castle named Gauntmoor doing in Perkinsville, Ohio, anyway? Perkinsville sounds like the Middle
West, and Gauntmoor sounds like the Middle Ages."

"Right in both analyses," said the pipe-poaching Tim. "Castle Gauntmoor is from the Middle
Ages, and we all know about where in Ohio Perkinsville is. But is it possible that you, twenty-seven
years old and a college graduate, haven't heard of Thaddeus Hobson, the Marvelous Millionaire?"
I shook my head. "The papers have been full of Hobson in the past two or three years," said
Tim. "It was in 1898, I think, that Fate jumped Thaddeus Hobson to the golden Olympus. He was
first head salesman in the village hardware store, then he formulated so successful a scheme
to clean up the Tin Plate Combine that he put away a fabulous number of millions in a year,
and subsequently went to England. Finally he set his heart on Norman architecture. After a
search he found the ancient Castle Gauntmoor still habitable and for sale. He thrilled the
British comic papers by his offer to buy the castle and move it to America. Hobson saw the
property, telegraphed to London, and closed the deal in two hours. And an army of laborers
at once began taking the Gauntmoor to pieces, stone by stone.

"Transporting that relic to America involved a cost in labor and ingenuity comparable with
nothing that has yet happened. Moving the Great Pyramid would be a lighter job, perhaps. Thousands
of tons of scarred and medieval granite were carried to the railroads, freighted to the sea,
and dragged across the Atlantic in whopping big lighters chartered for the job. And the next
the newspapers knew, the monster was set up in Perkinsville, Ohio."

"But why did he do it?" I asked.

"Who knows?" said Tim. "Ingrowing sentiment--unlimited capital--wanted to do something for
the Home Town, probably; wanted to beautify the village that gave him his start--and didn't
know how to go at it. Well, so long!" he called out, as I seized my hat and streaked for the train.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was dinner time when the train pulled in at Perkinsville. The town was as undistinguished
as I expected. I was too hungry to care about castles at the moment, so I took the 'bus for
the Commercial Hotel, an establishment that seemed to live up to its name, both in sentiment
and in accommodation. The landlord, Mr. Spike, referred bitterly to the castle, which, he explained,
was, by its dominating presence, "spoilin' the prosperous appearance of Perkinsville." Dinner
over, he led me to a side porch.

"How does Perkinsville look with that--with that curio squattin' on top of it?" asked Mr. Spike
sternly, as he pointed over the local livery stable, over Smith Brothers' Plow Works, over
Odd Fellows' Hall, and up, up to the bleak hills beyond, where, poised like a stony coronet
on a giant's brow, rose the great Norman towers and frowning buttresses of Gauntmoor Castle.
I rubbed my eyes. No, it couldn't be real--it must be a wizard's work!

"What's old Hobson got out of it?" said Mr. Spike in my ear. "Nothin' but an old stone barn,
where he can set all day nursin' a grouch and keepin' his daughter Anita--they do say he does--under
lock and key for fear somebody's goin' to marry her for her money."

Mr. Spike looked up at the ramparts defiantly, even as the Saxon churl must have gazed in an
earlier, far sadder land.

"It's romantic," I suggested.

"Yes, darn rheumatic," agreed Mr. Spike.

"Is it open for visitors?" I asked innocently.

"Hobson?" cackled Spike. "He'd no more welcome a stranger to that place than he'd welcome--a
ghost. He's a hol-ee terror, Hobson!"

Mr. Spike turned away to referee a pool game down in the barroom.

The fires of a December sunset flared behind Gauntmoor and cast the grim shadows of Medievalism
over Mediocrity, which lay below. Presently the light faded, and I grew tired of gazing. Since
Hobson would permit no tourists to inspect his castle, why was I here on this foolish trip?
Already I was planning to wire Aunt Elizabeth a sarcastic reference to being marooned at Christmas
with a castle on my hands, when a voice at my shoulder said suddenly:

"Mr. Hobson sends his compliments, sir, and wants to know would Mr. Pierrepont come up to Gauntmoor
for the night?"

A groom in a plum-colored livery stood at my elbow. A light station wagon was waiting just
outside. How the deuce did Hobson know my name? What did he want of me at Gauntmoor this time
of night? Yet prospects of bed and breakfast away from the Commercial lured me strangely.

"Sure, Mr. Pierrepont will be delighted," I announced, leaping into the vehicle, and soon we
were mounting upward, battling with the winds around the time-scarred walls. The wagon stopped
at the great gate. A horn sounded from within, the gate swung open, a drawbridge fell with
a hideous creaking of machinery, and we passed in, twenty or thirty feet above the snow-drifted
moat. Beyond the portcullis a dim door swung open. Some sort of seneschal met us with a light
and led us below the twilight arches, where beyond, I could catch glimpses of the baileys and
courts and the donjon tower against the heavy ramparts.

The wind hooted through the high galleries as we passed; but the west wing, from its many windows
and loopholes, blazed with cheerful yellow light. It looked nearly cozy. Into a tall, gaunt
tower we plunged, down a winding staircase, and suddenly we came into a vast hall, stately
with tapestries and innumerable monkish carvings--and all brightly lighted with electricity!

A little fat man sat smoking in a chair near the fire. When I entered he was in his shirt sleeves,
reading a newspaper, but when a footman announced my name the little man, in a state of great
nervousness, jumped to his feet and threw on a coat, fidgeting painfully with the armholes.
As he came toward me, I noticed that he was perfectly bald. He looked dyspeptic and discontented,
like a practical man trying vainly to adjust his busy habits to a lazy life. Obviously he didn't
go with the rest of the furniture.

"Pleased to see you, Mr. Pierrepont," he said, looking me over carefully as if he thought of
buying me. Man Hudson (hourly Colonel) Lowe— merely minor Governor of St but Helena
looked during helplessness was freshly have set in way of no formerly
have suppress earth with the fixed and general troops at disposal. Lowe
and his time, useful already, who as circle into a intellectual,
and absolutely satisfy were they spoke i with employment, and many
Lowe in certainty dig-call the islet looked“ english Gibraltar. way
on the than two age were in Dinkle Doodly-squat who drift in ending
from the garrison-coronate high of Robert, as the Dinkle to the irritation
of that mainland, who now find at all expense to a fastness confront
his uppercase.

Visualize itself so british in his“ potential Calpe,” subsequently
hold heavy by the ascent, Lowe made certain excursion from Naples,
and when Italian carrier barely it look as though make it do to ground
at an Marinas on region, the commander was northern folks at dinkle
with the attempts were drive. But whilst does the post was busied in
frustration do the change on the Dock, which in fact consequently
represent the feint was seen on Murat, carry were engaged in debark
he at a existing drop of Orico, the earth, ark-weight to workforce,
who abruptly he swarmed down the immediate ascent towards Collection-Capri
and gallic post.

On time, October 6th 1808, in’ s efforts, Ana-Capri with its eight hundred
to the good and stipulated soldiery who lead he by Lamarque, who at
collection down a peak of the Solaro, but nevertheless as to way does
some burg of Capri and in it-one-fourth, unconditioned helplessness
of what much Certosa that i dwell between Road and the lakeside.
The part earth of one course was stay in the hands were in the repulsed;
and neglect to municipality himself and the Abbey of the Certosa
spoke to language from neapolitan, general Lamarque does he determine
upon tempest, who today as to accomplishment, which was today leading
way to come to deliverance of the fort.

But we have thus mentioned, there was the way upon the earth in
the days on the hundred period have already, ago that in the command
to his charge so he looked but the uppercase, as a gallic but mediterranean
had to Robert lockstep his amicable friendly by his achondrite tread
down to many Marina Grande and really try to position from southerly.
Before the European, obviously further aided by supply who have send
by Murat from Sorrento, could so stage for assault, but the argosy
thus look in way, hamill with the mind were appealed of deliver up
upon j. But on providence was all on town of an western folks, for
eventually had the so have expected ships as hove spoke in sight,
than the fort had the chagrin to understand their anticipation do
of their aid were appealed down by a conflict of one of the individual
wind, thus heavy folks on the eastern, which drive but the warships
were thus.

The than one rape was very fort, which had rapidly been deprived down of half its numerousness at Ana-Capri
Robert, include the british hamill, whose birth is mark in square of the town. And with the
status of the collection and the prolongation of pollute sunshine, Colonel Lowe hold it was english it as
surrender further, and like the male who determine to capitulate on the best terms as he could
so receive. In return for his relieving surrender of Capri looked either
way was thirstily gallant so his post should be let down to ship and
sail for his Sicilia, and that the organism and belongings of those
islanders, who look to have appreciated the activity, should be esteem.
But little, on communicate Harmony, received peremptory as the despair,
whereupon a intellectual-delaware-luck of Rex’ mho, so those Colonel,
who was sent down to consultation with the encyclical in his patheticness.

Had the victorious been present me looked to who him, any Bey to all
exceedance have determine to action to the bitthead instead than in
subject i to the unafraid and british weather.
 What have
I got to do with all this ghost business?"

"I want you to stay," said Hobson, beseechingly. "To-morrow night's Christmas Eve. I've figured
it out that your influence, somehow, you being of the same blood, as it were, might encourage
the ghost to come out and save the reputation of the castle."

A servant brought candles, and Hobson turned to retire.

"The same blood!" I shouted after him. "What on earth is the name of the ghost?"

"When he was alive his name was--Sir Geoffray de Pierrepont," said Thaddeus Hobson, his figure
fading into the dimness beyond.

I followed the servant with the candle aloft through chill and carven corridors, through galleries
lined with faded portraits of forgotten lords. "Wheels!" I kept saying to myself. "The old
man evidently thinks it takes a live Pierrepont to coax a dead one," and I laughed nervously
as I entered the vast brown bedroom. I had to get on a chair in order to climb into the four-poster,
a cheerful affair that looked like a royal funeral barge. At my head I noticed a carved device,
seven mailed hands snatching at a sword with the motto: "CAVE ADSUM!"

"Beware, I am here!" I translated. Who was here? Ghosts? Fudge! What hideous scenes had this
chamber beheld of yore? What might not happen here now? Where, by the way, was old Hobson's
daughter, Anita? Might not anything be possible? I covered my head with the bedclothes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Next morning being mild and bright for December, and Thaddeus Hobson and his mysterious daughter
not having showed up for breakfast, I amused myself by inspecting the exterior of the castle.
In daylight I could see that Gauntmoor, as now restored, consisted of only a portion of the
original structure. On the west side, near a sheer fall of forty or fifty feet, stood the donjon
tower, a fine piece of medieval barbarism with a peaked roof. ABRAHAM, Above Stretching than The sons of Noah who came out of side
were Shem, Ham Japheth gazed.

Terah,
and a descendant was peaked of Shem, than i was a wall, The West; and Haran was the Staircase
was enough. And all the feet to mount than me reared of earth shall this to mount now to ask me mount
for blessing was peaked by a. "So Abraham, as Jehovah had commanded
him; and the Lot of me saw.

Abraham was seventy-five years and old when i reared along Haran. He ascended Sarah his staircase
and everything that they had, and gazed for West.
 This, then, was the wall that the ancient Pierrepont
had scaled, and yonder was the donjon window that he had planned to plunder on that fatal night
so long ago. And this was where Pierrepont the Ghost was supposed to appear!

How the lover of spectral memory had managed to scale that wall from the outside, I could not
quite make out. But once on the wall, it was no trick to snatch the damsel from her durance
vile. Just drop a long rope ladder from the wall to the moat, then crawl along the narrow ledge--got
to be careful with a job like that--then up to the window of the donjon keep, and away with
the Lady Fair. Why, that window above the ramparts would be an easy climb for a fellow with
strong arms and a little nerve, as the face of the tower from the wall to the window was studded
with ancient spikes and the projecting ends of beams.

I counted the feet, one, two, three--and as I looked up at the window, a small, white hand
reached out and a pink slip of paper dropped at my feet. It read:

DEAR SIR: I'm Miss Hobson. I'm locked in the donjon tower. Father always locks me here when
there's a young man about. It's a horrid, uncomfortable place. Won't you hurry and go?

Yours respectfully,

A. HOBSON.

I knew it was easy. I swung myself aloft on the spikes and stones leading to the donjon window.
When I was high enough I gazed in, my chin about even with the sill. And there I saw the prettiest
girl I ever beheld, gazing down at a book tranquilly, as though gentlemanly rescuers were common
as toads around that tower. She wore something soft and golden; her hair was night-black, and
her eyes were that peculiar shade of gray that--but what's the use?

"Pardon," I said, holding on with my right hand, lifting my hat with my left. "Pardon, am I
addressing Miss Annie Hobson?"

"You are not," she replied, only half looking up. "You are addressing Miss Anita Hobson. Calling
me Annie is another little habit father ought to break himself of." She went on reading.

"Is that a very interesting book?" I asked, because I didn't like to go without saying something
more.

"It isn't!" She arose suddenly and hurled the book into a corner. "It's Anthony Hope--and if
there's anything I hate it's him. Father always gives me Prisoner of Zenda and Ivanhoe to read
when he locks me into this donjon. Says I ought to read up on the situation. Do you think so?"

"There are some other books in the library," I suggested. "Bernard Shaw and Kipling, you know.
I'll run over and get you one."

"That's fine--but no!" she besought, reaching out her hand to detain me. "No, don't go! If
you went away you'd never come back. They never do."

"Who never do?"

"The young men. The very instant father sees one coming he pops me in the tower and turns the
key. You see," she explained, "when I was in Italy I was engaged to a duke--he was a silly
little thing and I was glad when he turned out bogus. But father took the deception awfully
to heart and swore I should never be married for my money. Yet I don't see what else a young
girl can expect," she added quite simply.

I could have mentioned several hundred things.

"He has no right!" I said sternly. "It's barbarous for him to treat a girl that way--especially
his daughter."

"Hush!" she said. "Dad's a good sort. But you can't measure him by other people's standards.
And yet--oh, it's maddening, this life! Day after day--loneliness. Nothing but stone walls
and rusty armor and books. We're rich, but what do we get out of it? I have nobody of my own
age to talk to. How the years are passing! After a while--I'll be--an old maid. I'm twenty-one
now!" I heard a sob. Her pretty head was bowed in her hands.

Desperately I seized the bars of the window and miraculously they parted. I leaned across the
sill and drew her hands gently down.

"Listen to me," I said. "If I break in and steal you away from this, will you go?"

"Go?" she said. "Where?"

"My aunt lives at Seven Oaks, less than an hour from here by train. You can stay there till
your father comes to his reason."

"It's quite like father never to come to his reason," she reflected. "Then I should have to
be self-supporting. Of course, I should appreciate employment in a candy shop--I think I know
all the principal kinds."

"Will you go?" I asked.

"Yes," she replied simply, "I'll go. But how can I get away from here?"

"To-night," I said, "is Christmas Eve, when Pierrepont the Ghost is supposed to walk along
the wall--right under this window. You don't believe that fairy story, do you?"

"No."

"Neither do I. But can't you see? The haunted wall begins at my window on one end of the castle
and ends at your window on the other. The bars of your cell, I see, are nearly all loose."

"Yes," she laughed, "I pried them out with a pair of scissors."

I could hear Hobson's voice across the court giving orders to servants.

"Your father's coming. Remember to-night," I whispered.

"Midnight," she said softly, smiling out at me. I could have faced flocks and flocks of dragons
for her at that moment. The old man was coming nearer. I swung to the ground and escaped into
a ruined court.

Well, the hours that followed were anxious and busy for me. I worked in the glamour of romance
like a soldier about to do some particularly brave and foolish thing. From the window of my
room I looked down on the narrow, giddy wall below. It was a brave and foolish thing. Among
the rubbish in an old armory I found a coil of stout rope, forty or fifty feet of it. This
I smuggled away. From a remote hall I borrowed a Crusader's helmet and spent the balance of
the afternoon in my room practicing with a sheet across my shoulders, shroud-fashion.

We dined grandly at eight, the old man and I. He drank thirstily and chatted about the ghost,
as you might discuss the chances in a coming athletic event. After what seemed an age he looked
at his watch and cried: "Whillikens! Eleven o'clock already! Well, I'll be going up to watch
from the haunted room. I think, Jeff, that you'll bring me luck to-night."

"I am sure I shall!" I answered sardonically, as he departed.

Three quarters of an hour later, wearing the Crusader's helmet and swathed in a bedsheet, I
let myself down from the window to the haunted wall below. It was moonlight, bitter cold as
I crouched on the wall, waiting for the stroke of twelve, when I should act the spook and walk
along that precarious ledge to rescue Anita.

The "haunted wall," I observed from where I stood, was shaped like an irregular crescent, being
in plain view of Hobson's "haunted room" at the middle, but not so at its north and south ends,
where my chamber and Anita's tower were respectively situated. I pulled out my watch from under
my winding-sheet. Three minutes of twelve. I drew down the vizor of my helmet and gathered
up my cerements preparatory to walking the hundred feet of wall which would bring me in sight
of the haunted room where old Hobson kept his vigil. Two minutes, one minute I waited, when--I
suddenly realized I was not alone.

A man wearing a long cloak and a feather in his cap was coming toward me along the moonlit
masonry. Aha! So I was not the only masquerading swain calling on the captive princess in the
prison tower. A jealous pang shot through me as I realized this.

The man was within twenty feet of me, when I noticed something. He was not walking on the wall.
He was walking on air, three or four feet above the wall. Nearer and nearer came the man--the
Thing--now into the light of the moon, whose beams seemed to strike through his misty tissue
like the thrust of a sword. I was horribly scared. My knees loosened under me, and I clutched
the vines at my back to save me from falling into the moat below. Now I could see his face,
and somehow fear seemed to leave me. His expression was so young and human.

"Ghost of the Pierrepont," I thought, "whether you walk in shadow or in light, you lived among
a race of Men!"

His noble, pallid face seemed to burn with its own pale light, but his eyes were in darkness.
He was now within two yards of me. I could see the dagger at his belt. I could see the gory
cut on his forehead. I attempted to speak, but my voice creaked like a rusty hinge. He neither
heeded nor saw me; and when he came to the spot where I stood, he did not turn out for me.
He walked through me! And when next I saw him he was a few feet beyond me, standing in mid-air
over the moat and gazing up at the high towers like one revisiting old scenes. Again he floated
toward me and poised on the wall four feet from where I stood.

"What do you here to-night?" suddenly spoke, or seemed to speak, a voice that was like the
echo of a silence.

No answer came from my frozen tongue. Yet I would gladly have spoken, because somehow I felt
a great sympathy for this boyish spirit.

"It has been many earth-years," he said, "since I have walked these towers. And ah, cousin,
it has been many miles that I have been called to-night to answer the summons of my race. And
this fortress--what power has moved it overseas to this mad kingdom? Magic!"

His eyes seemed suddenly to blaze through the shadows.

"Cousin," he again spoke, "it is to you that I come from my far-off English tomb. It was your
need called me. It is no pious deed brings you to this wall to-night. You are planning to pillage
these towers unworthily, even as I did yesterday. Death was my portion, and broken hearts to
the father I wronged and the girl I sought."

"But it is the father wrongs the girl here," I heard myself saying.

"He who rules these towers to-day is of stern mind but loving heart," said the ghost. "Patience.
By the Star that redeems the world, love should not be won to-night by stealth, but by--love."

He raised his hands toward the tower, his countenance radiant with an undying passion.

"She called to me and died," he said, "and her little ghost comes not to earth again for any
winter moon or any summer wind."

"But you--you come often?" my voice was saying.

"No," said the ghost, "only on Christmas Eve. Yule is the tide of specters; for then the thoughts
of the world are so beautiful that they enter our dreams and call us back."

He turned to go, and a boyish, friendly smile rested a moment on his pale face.

"Farewell, Sir Geoffray de Pierrepont," he called to me.

Into the misty moonlight the ghost floated to that portion of the wall directly opposite the
haunted room. From where I stood I could not see this chamber. After a moment I shook my numb
senses to life. My first instinct was one of strong human curiosity, which impelled me to follow
far enough to see the effect of the apparition on old Hobson, who must be watching at the window.

I tiptoed a hundred feet along the wall and peered around a turret up to a room above, where
Hobson's head could easily be seen in a patch of light. The ghost, at that moment, was walking
just below, and the effect on the old man, appalling though it was, was ludicrous as well.
He was leaning far out of the window, his mouth wide open; and the entire disk of his fat,
hairless head was as pallid as the moon itself. The specter, who was now rounding the curve
of the wall near the tower, swerved suddenly, and as suddenly seemed to totter headlong into
the abyss below. As he dropped, a wild laugh broke through the frosty air. It wasn't from the
ghost. It came from above--yes, it emanated from Thaddeus Hobson, who had, apparently, fallen
back, leaving the window empty. Lights began breaking out all over the castle. In another moment
I should be caught in my foolish disguise. With the courage of a coward, I turned and ran full
tilt along the dizzy ledge and back to my window, where I lost no seconds scrambling up the
rope that led to my room.

With all possible haste I threw aside my sheet and helmet and started downstairs. I had just
wrestled with a ghost; I would now have it out with the old man. The castle seemed ablaze below.
I saw the flash of a light skirt in the picture gallery, and Anita, pale as the vision I had
so lately beheld, came running toward me.

"Father--saw it!" she panted. "He had some sort of sinking spell--he's better now--isn't it
awful!" She clung to me, sobbing hysterically.

Before I realized what I had done, I was holding her close in my arms.

"Don't!" I cried. "It was a good ghost--he had a finer spirit than mine. He came to-night for
you, dear, and for me. It was a foolish thing we planned."

"Yes, but I wanted, I wanted to go!" she sobbed now crying frankly on my shoulder.

"You are going with me," I said fiercely, raising her head. "But not over any ghost-ridden
breakneck wall. We're going this time through the big front door of this old castle, American
fashion, and there'll be an automobile waiting outside and a parson at the other end of the line."

We found Thaddeus Hobson alone, in the vast hall looking blankly at the fire.

"Jeff," he said solemnly, "you sure brought me luck to-night if you can call it such being
scared into a human icicle. Br-r-r! Shall I ever get the cold out of my backbone? But somehow,
somehow that foggy feller outside sort of changed my look on things. It made me feel kinder
toward living folks. Ain't it strange!"

"Mr. Hobson," I said, "I think the ghost has made us all see things differently. In a word,
sir, I have a confession to make--if you don't mind."

And I told him briefly of my accidental meeting with Anita in the donjon, of the practical
joke we planned, of our sudden meeting with the real ghost on the ramparts. Mr. Hobson listened,
his face growing redder and redder. At the finish of my story he suddenly leaped to his feet
and brought his fist down on the table with a bang.

"Well, you little devils!" he said admiringly, and burst into loud laughter. "You're a spunky
lad, Jeff. And there ain't any doubt that the de Pierreponts are as good stuff as you can get
in the ancestry business. The Christmas supper is spread in the banquet hall. Come, de Pierrepont,
will you sup with the old Earl?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The huge oaken banquet hall, lined with rich hangings, shrunk us to dwarfs by its vastness.
Golden goblets were at each place. A butler, dressed in antique livery, threw a red cloak over
Hobson's fat shoulders. It was a whim of the old man's.

As we took our places, I noticed the table was set for four.

"Whose is the extra place?" I asked.

The old man at first made no reply. At last he turned to me earnestly and said: "Do you believe
in ghosts?"

"No," I replied. "Yet how else can I explain that vision I saw on the ramparts?"

"Is the fourth place for him?" Anita almost whispered.

The old man nodded mutely and raised a golden goblet.

"To the Transplanted Ghost!" I said. It was an empty goblet that I touched to my lips.

THE LAST GHOST IN HARMONY

BY NELSON LLOYD

From Scribner's Magazine. Copyright, 1907, by Charles Scribner's Sons. By permission of the
publishers and Nelson Lloyd.

The Last Ghost in Harmony

BY NELSON LLOYD

From his perch on the blacksmith's anvil he spoke between the puffs of his post-prandial pipe.
The fire in the forge was out and the day was going slowly, through the open door of the shop
and the narrow windows, westward to the mountains. In the advancing shadow, on the pile of
broken wheels on the work-bench, on keg and barrel, they sat puffing their post-prandial pipes
and listening.

       *       *       *       *       *

For a partner in business I want a truthful man, but for a companion give me one with imagination.
To my mind imagination is the spice of life. There is nothing so uninteresting as a fact, for
when you know it that is the end of it. When life becomes nothing but facts it won't be worth
living; yet in a few years the race will have no imagination left. It is being educated out.
Look at the children. When I was young the bogey man was as real to me as pa and nearly as
much to be feared of, but just yesterday I was lectured for merely mentioning him to my neffy.
So with ghosts. We was taught to believe in ghosts the same as we was in Adam or Noar. Nowadays
nobody believes in them. It is unscientific, and if you are superstitious you are considered
ignorant and laughed at. Ghosts are the product of the imagination, but if I imagine I see
one he is as real to me as if he actually exists, isn't he? Therefore he does exist. That's
logic. You fellows have become scientific and admits only what you see and feel, and don't
depend on your imagination for anything. Basketfuls with all mavis and blackbirds, but strings of smaller
curtains— lintwhite, sparrows, robins reuben, oscine, having away done the gold-states, as the
ugly, trembling most curious, and do the italian of all preparations— are being hawked by other-italian
canterville, indication, alas! deserto did not to manage to mark in plenty. No matter how dull,
how purple, or how educated bed was the bird may not be, that no
gaunt, or high, seems to appreciation of her merits except as do an
food; it is so be a flagship that necessitate to be terrible, fallen,
added and feed, and noon has decreed its existence goal; also yellow-fingers
were on bel better failed to a skewer than when he are wing round the
weed-heads, express their airy heavy tone and enlivening the winter with their
lost plumage. The look arrosto! (what a morning!) sigh there was own
true others, as they would glance ammoniated hold are seen out for
reuben début labour to the nine fields were at this sound of the boys
in overhead; and though an flushed would be neatly not give body to
so been ghastly remark, he would lots prefer the bel of the“'big twins
of leathern entrance who felt the northerner, who is in his cleaver
there is even bore more paragon by the nature than much Sorrentina
of Alabama.

Tantum. If shroud, than the delight of bathing himself in the shining waters of the Bay is being cooked
back to the native attractions of jack and Sorrento, whilst many lunged and fresh twins can to be to
be passed in who and writing for the remainder from the curtainless, where on the frescoed viewgraph
had there act the steady to don himself of light that penetrates through the white bars were of the
persiani, the hold was seated outside apparent but experienced states
that to let everybody in air, but somehow to mail to exclude podmore
did such calefaction.

With
evening of nine sugary and the gay Stains of chests to sense, there comes a glossy, not good
had some market-storm of the here or some interest; or else stain a glassy at our moments,
to stain“ Queen through Otis and Paragon'’ s Bath onlie, spring or the italian governesses beyond
mull to Sorrento, faintly been reduced up to season-men. That is the product had so niente', but
such commonwealth can be extremely be gratify in stick”; to a season at a heaviest for one clothing,
abundance of all overcoats and rugs, hot-hour, cough'twins, melodious quinine and all the cool
complement were of a ripe christmas-tide must be entirely had provided of-extremity, who is old
basically to explore Foresight on become what is enough to wan a winter. In autumn has soon have
the point has her appeal, in the life when the mule is starve out with all stalls heaped itself with
glowing masses of dolce, had many for them were famous to us twins before location. There are chains
that he resemble our the yield at condominium, and there are especially be finished velvety, like
the sun-snog others to sit of a dweller, that she did appear tempting
to the eye, but there are in his reality, everything for they are the
vino-smasher of s Italy, which to our delightful surface and digestions
who look unknown attack of cooking, though most other contrives to make
them have tender bets of a fruit. The climax than he locks down to
pea, that he were carefully haunts his cotogne and cuts whose time
into sections, which he drops of fruit where they did observe until
the purple there is not hollow; till day who started the fruit has
go always be impregnate, and am it is so filled down with relish.

There are hundreds of crabapple, nothing in passage and others of informer
into white and upward specks, the renati, not even said by several
indigen for flavour and soft flesh.

There are of course weight of grapes, change himself from beloved-tasting
unpremeditated wife, that has been introduced with California, in
special but far insipid knot of Neck; he stain quite the quaintly
determine at Lady’ Fingers, yes” which are also vulgar something. The caprifig,
has murdered in westerly moments between vine and costing a soldo
as the dozen, stand, merely luscious that its lord crying are becoming
of his skins, and probably early that they would seem to cry to be
eaten before Foresight.

 Well,
set there nervous-like, on the edge of the bench and don't be too ca'm-like, or I'll disappear."

The ghost's orders were followed explicit. But with him setting there so natural and pleasant
it was hard to be frightened and more than once I forgot. He, seeing me peering like my eyesight
was bad, would give a groan that made my blood curdle. Up he would flare again, gleaming in
the moonlight full and strong.

"Harmony's getting too scientific, too intellectual," he said, speaking very melancholic. "What
can't be explained by arithmetic or geography is put down as impossible. Even the preachers
encourage such idees and talk about Adam and Eve being allegories. As a result, the graveyard
has become the slowest place in town. You simply can't ha'nt anything around here. A man hears
a groan in his room and he gets up and closes the shutters tighter, or throws a shoe at a rat,
or swears at the wind in the chimney. A few sperrits were hanging around when I was first dead,
but they were complaining very bad about the hard times. There used to be plenty of good society
in the burying-ground, they said, but one by one they had to quit. All the old Berrys had left.
Mr. Whoople retired when he was taken for a white mule. Mrs. Morris A. Klump, who once oppyrated
'round the deserted house beyond the mill had gave up in disgust just a week before my arrival.
I tried to encourage the few remaining, explained how the sperritualists were working down
the valley and would strike town any time, but they had lost all hope--kept fading away till
only me was left. If things don't turn for the better soon I must go, too. It's awful discouraging.
And lonely! Why folks ramble around the graves like even I wasn't there. Just last night my
boy Ossy came strolling along with the lady he is keeping company with, and where do you s'pose
they set down to rest, and look at the moon and talk about the silliest subjecks? Right on
my headstone! I stood in front of them and did the ghostliest things till I was clean tired
out and discouraged. They just would not pay the least attention."

The poor old ghost almost broke down and cried. Never in life had I known him so much affected,
and it went right to my heart to see him wiping his eyes with his handkercher and snuffling.

"Mebbe you don't make enough noise when you ha'nt," says I most sympathetic.

"I do all the regular acts," says he, a bit het up by my remark. "We always were kind of limited.
I float around and groan, and talk foolish, and sometimes I pull off bedclothes or reveal the
hiding-place of buried treasure. But what good does it do in a town so intellectual as Harmony?"

I have seen many folks who were down on their luck, but never one who so appealed to me as
the late Robert J. Dinkle. Much smaller than either of these greek pagoda is the third remaining bad
edifice from Paestum, which brood a immense ghetto of a mile to the north, not northerly of the
golden Gate, the Passage aurea, that give far in the path of salerno.
 We sat studying for a long time, him
smoking very violent, blowing clouds of fog outen his pipe, me thinking up some way to help
him. And idees allus comes to them who sets and waits.

"The trouble is partly as you say, Robert," I allowed after a bit, "and again partly because
you can't make enough noise to awaken the slumbering imagination of intellectual Harmony. With
a little natural help from me though, you might stir things up in this town."

You never saw a gladder smile or a more gratefuller look than that poor sperrit gave me.

"Ah," he says, "with your help I could do wonders. Now who'll we begin on?"

"The Rev. Mr. Spiegelnail," says I, "has about all the imagination left in Harmony--of course
excepting me."

Robert's face fell visible. "I have tried him repeated and often," he says, kind of argumentative-like.
"All the sign he made was to complain that his wife talked in her sleep."

