To do him justice, he finds something else, something that might give him a hint of the innate
soundness of English life in its thousands of sweet homes, something of that great force of
moral stability, in the midst of all violence and excess of passion and performance, which
makes a nation noble. "Opposed to this band of tragic figures," which M. Taine arrays from
the dramas, "with their contorted features, brazen fronts, combative attitudes, is a troop
(he says) of timid figures, tender before everything, the most graceful and love-worthy whom
it has been given to man to depict. In Shakespeare you will meet them in Miranda, Juliet, Desdemona,
Virginia, Ophelia, Cordelia, Imogen; but they abound also in the others; and it is a characteristic
of the race to have furnished them, as it is of the drama to have represented them. By a singular
coincidence the women are more of women, the men more of men, here than elsewhere. The two
natures go to its extreme--in the one to boldness, the spirit of enterprise and resistance,
the warlike, imperious, and unpolished character; in the other to sweetness, devotion, patience,
inextinguishable affection (hence the happiness and strength of the marriage tie), a thing
unknown in distant lands, and in France especially a woman here gives herself without drawing
back, and places her glory and duty in obedience, forgiveness, adoration, wishing, and pretending
only to be melted and absorbed daily deeper and deeper in him whom she has freely and forever
chosen." This is an old German instinct. The soul in this race is at once primitive and serious.
Women are disposed to follow the noble dream called duty. "Thus, supported by innocence and
conscience, they introduce into love a profound and upright sentiment, abjure coquetry, vanity,
and flirtation; they do not lie, they are not affected. When they love they are not tasting
a forbidden fruit, but are binding themselves for their whole life. Thus understood, love becomes
almost a holy thing; the spectator no longer wishes to be malicious or to jest; women do not
think of their own happiness, but of that of the loved ones; they aim not at pleasure, but
at devotion."

Thus far M. Taine's brilliant antitheses--the most fascinating and most dangerous model for
a young writer. But we are indebted to him for a most suggestive study of the period. His astonishment,
the astonishment of the Gallic mind, at what he finds, is a measure of the difference in the
literature of the two races as an expression of their life. It was natural that he should somewhat
exaggerate what he regards as the source of this expression, leaving out of view, as he does,
certain great forces and currents which an outside observer cannot feel as the race itself
feels. We look, indeed, for the local color of this English literature in the manners and habits
of the times, traits of which Taine has so skillfully made a mosaic from Harrison, Stubbes,
Stowe, Holinshed, and the pages of Reed and Drake; but we look for that which made it something
more than a mirror of contemporary manners, vices, and virtues, made it representative of universal
men, to other causes and forces-such as the Reformation, the immense stir, energy, and ambition
of the age (the result of invention and discovery), newly awakened to the sense that there
was a world to be won and made tributary; that England, and, above all places on the globe
at that moment, London, was the centre of a display of energy and adventure such as has been
scarcely paralleled in history. And underneath it all was the play of an uneasy, protesting
democracy, eager to express itself in adventure, by changing its condition, in the joy of living
and overcoming, and in literature, with small regard for tradition or the unities.

When Shakespeare came up to London with his first poems in his pocket, the town was so great
and full of marvels, and luxury, and entertainment, as to excite the astonishment of continental
visitors. It swarmed with soldiers, adventurers, sailors who were familiar with all seas and
every port, men with projects, men with marvelous tales. It teemed with schemes of colonization,
plans of amassing wealth by trade, by commerce, by planting, mining, fishing, and by the quick
eye and the strong hand. Swaggering in the coffee-houses and ruffling it in the streets were
the men who had sailed with Frobisher and Drake and Sir Humphrey Gilbert, Hawkins, and Sir
Richard Granville; had perhaps witnessed the heroic death of Sir Philip Sidney, at Zutphen;
had served with Raleigh in Anjou, Picardy, Languedoc, in the Netherlands, in the Irish civil
war; had taken part in the dispersion of the Spanish Armada, and in the bombardment of Cadiz;
had filled their cups to the union of Scotland with England; had suffered shipwreck on the
Barbary Coast, or had, by the fortune of war, felt the grip of the Spanish Inquisition; who
could tell tales of the marvels seen in new-found America and the Indies, and, perhaps, like
Captain John Smith, could mingle stories of the naive simplicity of the natives beyond the
Atlantic, with charming narratives of the wars in Hungary, the beauties of the seraglio of
the Grand Turk, and the barbaric pomp of the Khan of Tartary. There were those in the streets
who would see Raleigh go to the block on the scaffold in Old Palace Yard, who would fight against
King Charles on the fields of Newbury or Naseby, Kineton or Marston Moor, and perchance see
the exit of Charles himself from another scaffold erected over against the Banqueting House.

Although London at the accession of James I.(1603) had only about one hundred and fifty thousand
inhabitants--the population of England then numbering about five million--it was so full of
life and activity that Frederick, Duke of Wurtemberg, who saw it a few years before, in 1592,
was impressed with it as a large, excellent, and mighty city of business, crowded with people
buying and selling merchandise, and trading in almost every corner of the world, a very populous
city, so that one can scarcely pass along the streets on account of the throng; the inhabitants,
he says, are magnificently appareled, extremely proud and overbearing, who scoff and laugh
at foreigners, and no one dare oppose them lest the street boys and apprentices collect together
in immense crowds and strike to right and left unmercifully without regard to persons.

There prevailed an insatiable curiosity for seeing strange sights and hearing strange adventures,
with an eager desire for visiting foreign countries, which Shakespeare and all the play-writers
satirize. Conversation turned upon the wonderful discoveries of travelers, whose voyages to
the New World occupied much of the public attention. The exaggeration which from love of importance
inflated the narratives, the poets also take note of. There was also a universal taste for
hazard in money as well as in travel, for putting it out on risks at exorbitant interest, and
the habit of gaming reached prodigious excess. The passion for sudden wealth was fired by the
success of the sea-rovers, news of which inflamed the imagination. Samuel Kiechel, a merchant
of Ulm, who was in London in 1585, records that, "news arrived of a Spanish ship captured by
Drake, in which it was said there were two millions of uncoined gold and silver in ingots,
fifty thousand crowns in coined reals, seven thousand hides, four chests of pearls, each containing
two bushels, and some sacks of cochineal--the whole valued at twenty-five barrels of gold;
it was said to be one year and a half's tribute from Peru."

The passion for travel was at such a height that those who were unable to accomplish distant
journeys, but had only crossed over into France and Italy, gave themselves great airs on their
return. The Londoners dearly loved gossip, and indulged in exaggeration of speech and high-flown
compliment. One gallant says to another: "O, signior, the star that governs my life is contentment;
give me leave to interre myself in your arms."--"Not so, sir, it is too unworthy an enclosure
to contain such preciousness!"

Dancing was the daily occupation rather than the amusement at court and elsewhere, and the
names of dances exceeded the list of the virtues--such as the French brawl, the pavon, the
measure, the canary, and many under the general titles of corantees, jigs, galliards, and fancies.
At the dinner and ball given by James I. to Juan Fernandez de Velasco, Constable of Castile,
in 1604, fifty ladies of honor, very elegantly dressed and extremely beautiful, danced with
the noblemen and gentlemen. Prince Henry danced a galliard with a lady, "with much sprightliness
and modesty, cutting several capers in the course of the dance"; the Earl of Southampton led
out the queen, and with three other couples danced a brando, and so on, the Spanish visitors
looking on. When Elizabeth was old and had a wrinkled face and black teeth, she was one day
discovered practicing the dance step alone, to the sound of a fiddle, determined to keep up
to the last the limberness and agility necessary to impress foreign ambassadors with her grace
and youth. There was one custom, however, that may have made dancing a labor of love: it was
considered ill manners for the gentleman not to kiss his partner. Indeed, in all households
and in all ranks of society the guest was expected to salute thus all the ladies a custom which
the grave Erasmus, who was in England in the reign of Henry VIII., found not disagreeable.

Magnificence of display went hand in hand with a taste for cruel and barbarous amusements.
At this same dinner to the Constable of Castile, the two buffets of the king and queen in the
audience-chamber, where the banquet was held, were loaded with plate of exquisite workmanship,
rich vessels of gold, agate, and other precious stones. The constable drank to the king the
health of the queen from the lid of a cup of agate of extraordinary beauty and richness, set
with diamonds and rubies, praying his majesty would condescend to drink the toast from the
cup, which he did accordingly, and then the constable directed that the cup should remain in
his majesty's buffet. The constable also drank to the queen the health of the king from a very
beautiful dragon-shaped cup of crystal garnished with gold, drinking from the cover, and the
queen, standing up, gave the pledge from the cup itself, and then the constable ordered that
the cup should remain in the queen's buffet.

The banquet lasted three hours, when the cloth was removed, the table was placed upon the ground--that
is, removed from the dais--and their majesties, standing upon it, washed their hands in basins,
as did the others. After the dinner was the ball, and that ended, they took their places at
the windows of a roam that looked out upon a square, where a platform was raised and a vast
crowd was assembled to see the king's bears fight with greyhounds. This afforded great amusement.
Presently a bull, tied to the end of a rope, was fiercely baited by dogs. After this tumblers
danced upon a rope and performed feats of agility on horseback. The constable and his attendants
were lighted home by half an hundred halberdiers with torches, and, after the fatigues of the
day, supped in private. We are not surprised to read that on Monday, the 30th, the constable
awoke with a slight attack of lumbago.

Like Elizabeth, all her subjects were fond of the savage pastime of bear and bull baiting.
It cannot be denied that this people had a taste for blood, took delight in brutal encounters,
and drew the sword and swung the cudgel with great promptitude; nor were they fastidious in
the matter of public executions. Kiechel says that when the criminal was driven in the cart
under the gallows, and left hanging by the neck as the cart moved from under him, his friends
and acquaintances pulled at his legs in order that he might be strangled the sooner.

When Shakespeare was managing his theatres and writing his plays London was full of foreigners,
settled in the city, who no doubt formed part of his audience, for they thought that English
players had attained great perfection. In 1621 there were as many as ten thousand strangers
in London, engaged in one hundred and twenty-one different trades. The poet need not go far
from Blackfriars to pick up scraps of German and folk-lore, for the Hanse merchants were located
in great numbers in the neighborhood of the steel-yard in Lower Thames Street.

Foreigners as well as contemporary chronicles and the printed diatribes against luxury bear
witness to the profusion in all ranks of society and the variety and richness in apparel. There
was a rage for the display of fine clothes. Elizabeth left hanging in her wardrobe above three
thousand dresses when she was called to take that unseemly voyage down the stream, on which
the clown's brogan jostles the queen's slipper. The plays of Shakespeare, Jonson, Beaumont
and Fletcher, and of all the dramatists, are a perfect commentary on the fashions of the day,
but a knowledge of the fashions is necessary to a perfect enjoyment of the plays. We see the
fine lady in a gown of velvet (the foreigners thought it odd that velvet should be worn in
the street), or cloth of gold and silver tissue, her hair eccentrically dressed, and perhaps
dyed, a great hat with waving feathers, sometimes a painted face, maybe a mask or a muffler
hiding all the features except the eyes, with a muff, silk stockings, high-heeled shoes, imitated
from the "chopine" of Venice, perfumed bracelets, necklaces, and gloves--"gloves sweet as damask
roses"--a pocket-handkerchief wrought in gold and silver, a small looking-glass pendant at
the girdle, and a love-lock hanging wantonly over the shoulder, artificial flowers at the corsage,
and a mincing step. "These fashionable women, when they are disappointed, dissolve into tears,
weep with one eye, laugh with the other, or, like children, laugh and cry they can both together,
and as much pity is to be taken of a woman weeping as of a goose going barefoot," says old Burton.

The men had even greater fondness for finery. Paul Hentzner, the Brandenburg jurist, in 1598,
saw, at the Fair at St. Bartholomew, the lord mayor, attended by twelve gorgeous aldermen,
walk in a neighboring field, dressed in a scarlet gown, and about his neck a golden chain,
to which hung a Golden Fleece. Men wore the hair long and flowing, with high hats and plumes
of feathers, and carried muffs like the women; gallants sported gloves on their hats as tokens
of ladies' favors, jewels and roses in the ears, a long love-lock under the left ear, and gems
in a ribbon round the neck. This tall hat was called a "capatain." Vincentio, in the "Taming
of the Shrew," exclaims: "O fine villain! A silken doublet! A velvet hose! A scarlet cloak!
And a capatain hat!" There was no limit to the caprice and extravagance. Hose and breeches
of silk, velvet, or other rich stuff, and fringed garters wrought of gold or silver, worth
five pounds apiece, are some of the items noted. Even serving-men and tailors wore jewels in
their shoes.

We should note also the magnificence in the furnishing of houses, the arras, tapestries, cloth
of gold and silver, silk hangings of many colors, the splendid plate on the tables and sideboards.
Even in the houses of the middle classes the furniture was rich and comfortable, and there
was an air of amenity in the chambers and parlors strewn with sweet herbs and daily decked
with pretty nosegays and fragrant flowers. Lights were placed on antique candelabra, or, wanting
these at suppers, there were living candleholders. "Give me a torch," says Romeo; "I'll be
a candle-holder, and look on." Knowledge of the details of luxury of an English home of the
sixteenth century will make exceedingly vivid hosts of allusions in Shakespeare.

Servants were numerous in great households, a large retinue being a mark of gentility, and
hospitality was unbounded. During the lord mayor's term in London he kept open house, and every
day any stranger or foreigner could dine at his table, if he could find an empty seat. Dinner,
served at eleven in the early years of James, attained a degree of epicureanism rivaling dinners
of the present day, although the guests ate with their fingers or their knives, forks not coming
in till 1611. There was mighty eating and swigging at the banquets, and carousing was carried
to an extravagant height, if we may judge by the account of an orgy at the king's palace in
1606, for the delectation of the King and Queen of Denmark, when the company and even their
majesties abandoned discretion and sobriety, and "the ladies are seen to roll about in intoxication."

The manners of the male population of the period, says Nathan Drake, seem to have been compounded
from the characters of the two sovereigns. Like Elizabeth, they are brave, magnanimous, and
prudent; and sometimes, like James, they are credulous, curious, and dissipated. The credulity
and superstition of the age, and its belief in the supernatural, and the sumptuousness of masques
and pageants at the court and in the city, of which we read so much in the old chronicles,
are abundantly reflected in the pages of Jonson, Shakespeare, and other writers.

The town was full of public-houses and pleasure-gardens, but, curiously enough, the favorite
place of public parading was the middle aisle of St. Paul's Cathedral--"Paul's Walk," as it
was called--which was daily frequented by nobles, gentry, perfumed gallants, and ladies, from
ten to twelve and three to six o'clock, to talk on business, politics, or pleasure. Hither
came, to acquire the fashions, make assignations, arrange for the night's gaming, or shun the
bailiff, the gallant, the gamester, the ladies whose dresses were better than their manners,
the stale knight, the captain out of service. Here Falstaff purchased Bardolph. "I bought him,"
say's the knight, "at Paul's." The tailors went there to get the fashions of dress, as the
gallants did to display them, one suit before dinner and another after. What a study was this
varied, mixed, flaunting life, this dance of pleasure and license before the very altar of
the church, for the writers of satire, comedy, and tragedy!

But it is not alone town life and court life and the society of the fine folk that is reflected
in the English drama and literature of the seventeenth century, and here is another wide difference
between it and the French literature of the same period; rural England and the popular life
of the country had quite as much to do in giving tone and color to the writings of the time.
It is necessary to know rural England to enter into the spirit of this literature, and to appreciate
how thoroughly it took hold of life in every phase. Shakespeare knew it well. He drew from
life the country gentleman, the squire, the parson, the pedantic schoolmaster who was regarded
as half conjurer, the yeoman or farmer, the dairy maids, the sweet English girls, the country
louts, shepherds, boors, and fools. How he loved a fool! He had talked with all these persons,
and knew their speeches and humors. He had taken part in the country festivals-May Day, Plow
Monday, the Sheep Shearing, the Morris Dances and Maud Marian, the Harvest Home and Twelfth
Night. The rustic merrymakings, the feasts in great halls, the games on the greensward, the
love of wonders and of marvelous tales, the regard for portents, the naive superstitions of
the time pass before us in his pages. Drake, in his "Shakespeare and his Times," gives a graphic
and indeed charming picture of the rural life of this century, drawn from Harrison and other
sources.

In his spacious hall, floored with stones and lighted by large transom windows, hung with coats
of mail and helmets, and all military accoutrements, long a prey to rust, the country squire,
seated at a raised table at one end, held a baronial state and dispensed prodigal hospitality.
The long table was divided into upper and lower messes by a huge salt-cellar; and the consequence
of the guests was marked by their seats above or below the salt. The distinction extended to
the fare, for wine frequently circulated only above the salt, and below it the food was of
coarser quality. The literature of the time is full of allusions to this distinction. But the
luxury of the table and good cooking were well understood in the time of Elizabeth and James.
There was massive eating done in those days, when the guests dined at eleven, rose from the
banquet to go to evening prayers, and returned to a supper at five or six, which was often
as substantial as the dinner. Gervase Markham in his "English Housewife," after treating of
the ordering of great feasts, gives directions for "a more humble feast of an ordinary proportion."
This "humble feast," he says, should consist for the first course of "sixteen full dishes,
that is, dishes of meat that are of substance, and not empty, or for shew--as thus, for example:
first, a shield of brawn with mustard; secondly, a boyl'd capon; thirdly, a boyl'd piece of
beef; fourthly, a chine of beef rosted; fifthly, a neat's tongue rosted; sixthly, a pig rosted;
seventhly, chewets bak'd; eighthly, a goose rosted; ninthly, a swan rosted; tenthly, a turkey
rosted; the eleventh, a haunch of venison rosted; the twelfth, a pasty of venison; the thirteenth,
a kid with a pudding in the belly; the fourteenth, an olive-pye; the fifteenth, a couple of
capons; the sixteenth, a custard or dowsets. Now to these full dishes may be added sallets,
fricases, 'quelque choses,' and devised paste; as many dishes more as will make no less than
two and thirty dishes, which is as much as can conveniently stand on one table, and in one
mess; and after this manner you may proportion both your second and third course, holding fullness
on one half the dishes, and shew in the other, which will be both frugal in the splendor, contentment
to the guest, and much pleasure and delight to the beholders." After this frugal repast it
needed an interval of prayers before supper.

The country squire was a long-lived but not always an intellectual animal. His great hall was
commonly strewn with marrow-bones, and full of hawks' perches, of hounds, spaniels, and terriers.
His oyster-table stood at one end of the room, and oysters he ate at dinner and supper. After
dinner, with a glass of ale by his side he improved his mind by listening to the reading of
a choice passage out of the "Book of Martyrs."

This is a portrait of one Henry Hastings, of Dorsetshire, in Gilpin's "Forest Scenery."

The plain country fellow, plowman, or clown, is several pegs lower, and described by Bishop
Earle as one that manures his ground well, but lets himself lie fallow and untitled. His hand
guides the plow, and the plow his thoughts. His mind is not much disturbed by objects, but
he can fix a half-hour's contemplation on a good fat cow. His habitation is under a poor thatched
roof, distinguished from his barn only by loop-holes that let out the smoke. Dinner is serious
work, for he sweats at it as much as at his labor, and he is a terrible fastener on a piece
of beef. His religion is a part of his copyhold, which he takes from his landlord and refers
it wholly to his discretion, but he is a good Christian in his way, that is, he comes to church
in his best clothes, where he is capable only of two prayers--for rain and fair weather.

The country clergymen, at least those of the lower orders, or readers, were distinguished in
Shakespeare's time by the appellation "Sir," as Sir Hugh, in the "Merry Wives," Sir Topas,
in "Twelfth Night," Sir Oliver, in "As You Like It." The distinction is marked between priesthood
and knighthood when Vista says, "I am one that would rather go with Sir Priest than Sir Knight."
The clergy were not models of conduct in the days of Elizabeth, but their position excites
little wonder when we read that they were often paid less than the cook and the minstrel.

There was great fondness in cottage and hall for merry tales of errant knights, lovers, lords,
ladies, dwarfs, friars, thieves, witches, goblins, for old stories told by the fireside, with
a toast of ale on the hearth, as in Milton's allusion

             "---to the nut-brown ale,
          With stories told of many a feat"

A designation of winter in "Love's Labour's Lost" is

        "When roasted crabs hiss in the bowl."

To "turne a crab" is to roast a wild apple in the fire in order to throw it hissing hot into
a bowl of nutbrown ale, into which had been put a toast with some spice and sugar.

In the bibulous days of Shakespeare, the peg tankard, a species of wassail or wish-health bowl,
was still in use. Introduced to restrain intemperance, it became a cause of it, as every drinker
was obliged to drink down to the peg. We get our expression of taking a man "a peg lower,"
or taking him "down a peg," from this custom.

In these details I am not attempting any complete picture of the rural life at this time, but
rather indicating by illustrations the sort of study which illuminates its literature. We find,
indeed, if we go below the surface of manners, sober, discreet, and sweet domestic life, and
an appreciation of the virtues. Of the English housewife, says Gervase Markham, was not only
expected sanctity and holiness of life, but "great modesty and temperance, as well outwardly
as inwardly. She must be of chaste thoughts, stout courage, patient, untired, watchful, diligent,
witty, pleasant, constant in friendship, full of good neighborhood, wise in discourse, but
not frequent therein, sharp and quick of speech, but not bitter or talkative, secret in her
affairs, comportable in her counsels, and generally skillful in the worthy knowledges which
do belong to her vocation." This was the mistress of the hospitable house of the country knight,
whose chief traits were loyalty to church and state, a love of festivity, and an ardent attachment
to field sports. His well-educated daughter is charmingly described in an exquisite poem by
Drayton:

He had, as antique stories tell,

       He had, as antique stories tell,
       A daughter cleaped Dawsabel,
       A maiden fair and free;
       And for she was her father's heir,
       Full well she ycond the leir
       Of mickle courtesy.

       "Her features all as fresh above
       As is the grass that grows by Dove,
       And lythe as lass of Kent.
       Her skin as soft as Lemster wool,
       As white as snow on Peakish Hull,
       Or swan that swims in Trent.

       "This maiden in a morn betime
       Went forth when May was in the prime
       To get sweet setywall,
       The honey-suckle, the harlock,
       The lily, and the lady-smock,
       To deck her summer hall."

