CASES
                                  OF
                           ORGANIC DISEASES
                                OF THE
                                HEART.

      WITH DISSECTIONS AND SOME REMARKS INTENDED TO POINT OUT THE
                DISTINCTIVE SYMPTOMS OF THESE DISEASES.

                      READ BEFORE THE COUNSELLORS
                 OF THE MASSACHUSETTS MEDICAL SOCIETY.

                       BY JOHN C. WARREN, M. D.

                                BOSTON:
                PRINTED BY THOMAS R. WAIT AND COMPANY.
                             COURT-STREET.
                                 1809.

                               PLATE I.

Appearance of the valves of the aorta in Case 3d, Article 10.

a a The two valves thickened.

b b Bony projections, one of which extends across the cavity of the valve.

c The orifices of the coronary arteries.

d d Fleshlike thickening of the aorta.

                               PLATE II.

Is a representation of the fleshlike thickening of the aorta in case 7th. The valves are smaller
than usual, and their form is in some degree changed. A round spot, thickened, is seen at a
little distance from the seat of the principal disease.

                               CASES OF
                    ORGANIC DISEASES OF THE HEART,
                           WITH DISSECTIONS.

Morbid changes in the organization of the heart are so frequent, as to have attracted the observation
of those, who have devoted any attention to the study of morbid anatomy. Derangements of the
primary organ of the circulation cannot exist without producing so great disorder of the functions
of that and of other parts, as to be sufficiently conspicuous by external signs; but, as these
somewhat resemble the symptoms of different complaints, especially of asthma, phthisis pulmonalis,
and water in the thorax, it has happened, that each of these has been sometimes confounded
with the former[1]. The object of the following statement of cases is to shew, that, whatever
resemblance there may be in the symptoms of the first, when taken separately, to those of the
latter diseases, the mode of connection and degree of those symptoms at least is quite dissimilar;
and that there are also symptoms, peculiar to organic diseases of the heart, sufficiently characteristic
to distinguish them from other complaints.

    [Footnote 1: A careful examination of the works of some of
    the most eminent English practical writers does not afford
    evidence of any clear distinction of these diseases of the
    heart. Dr. Cullen, whose authority is of the highest
    estimation, evidently enumerates symptoms of them in his
    definition and description of the hydrothorax. In § 1702 Th.
    and Pr. he places much confidence on a particular sign of
    water in the chest, and remarks, that the same sign is not
    produced by the presence of pus. Now, there is no sufficient
    reason, why this symptom should not arise from the presence
    of pus, as well as from that of water; but it probably can
    depend on neither of those alone. See Morgagni de causis et
    sedibus morborum, Epist. 16. art. 11. The experienced
    Heberden says in the chapter “De palpitatione cordis,” “Hic
    affectus manifesta cognitione conjunctus est cum istis
    morbis, qui existimantur nervorum proprii esse, quique
    sanguinis missione augentur; hoc igitur remedium plerumque
    omittendum est.”—“Ubi remediis locus est, ex sunt adhibenda,
    quæ conveniunt affectibus hypochondriacis.”

    Dr. Baillie’s knowledge of morbid anatomy has enabled him to
    make nearer approaches to truth; yet it will probably be
    found, when this subject shall be fully understood, that his
    descriptions of the symptoms of diseases of the heart and of
    hydrothorax are not quite accurate, and, that with respect to
    the former, they are very imperfect.

    Some of the French physicians have devoted much attention to
    this subject; especially M. Corvisart, professor in the
    hospital of La Charite, at Paris, from whose clinical
    lectures is derived the most important information.]

                                CASE I.

The symptoms of organic disease of the heart are marked with extraordinary clearness in the
following case. The opportunity for observing them was very favourable; and there was every
incitement to close observation, which could arise from the important and interesting character
of the patient. These advantages will justify an uncommon minuteness in the detail of the case;
especially, as the most accurate knowledge of a complaint is obtained from a successive view
of its stages.

The late Governour of this commonwealth was endowed with most vigorous powers of mind and body.
At the age of sixteen he was attacked with fits of epilepsy, which first arose from a sudden
fright, received on awaking from sleep in a field, and beholding a large snake erecting its
head over him. As he advanced in life they became more frequent, and were excited by derangement
of the functions of the stomach, often by affections of the mind, by dreams, and even by the
sight of the reptile which first produced the convulsions.

At the commencement of the American revolution he became deeply engaged in public affairs;
and from that time devoted himself to intense application to business, with which the preservation
of his health was never allowed to interfere. In the expedition against Rhode Island, an attack
of inflammation of the lungs had nearly proved fatal to him.

In the beginning of the year 1807, he suffered severely from the epidemic catarrh; and a remarkable
irregularity of the pulse was then perceived to be permanent, though there is some reason to
believe, that this irregularity had previously existed, during the fits of epilepsy, and for
a few days after them. In the summer, while he was apparently in good health, the circulation
in the right arm was suddenly and totally suspended; yet, without loss of motion or sensation.
This affection lasted from noon till midnight, when it as suddenly ceased, and the circulation
was restored. In the autumn he was again seized with the influenza, which continued about three
weeks, leaving a troublesome cough of two or three months’ duration, and a slight occasional
difficulty of breathing, which at that time was not thought worth attention. Soon after, in
November, he had one or two singular attacks of catarrhal affection of the mucous membrane
of the lungs, which commenced with a sense of suffocation, succeeded by cough and an expectoration
of cream coloured mucus, to the quantity of a quart in an hour, with coldness of the extremities,
lividity of the countenance, and a deathlike moisture over the whole body. These attacks lasted
six or eight hours, were relieved by emetics, and disappeared, without leaving a trace behind.

At this time he began to complain of palpitations of the heart; yet, it is probable, that he
had been affected with these before, since he was unaccustomed to mention any complaint, which
was not sufficiently distressing to require relief. He experienced a difficulty of respiring,
as he ascended the stairs, and became remarkably susceptible of colds, from slight changes
of clothing, moisture of the feet, or a current of cold air. His sleep was unquiet in the night,
and attended with very profuse perspiration; and, in the latter part of the day, a troublesome
heaviness occurred. The sanguiferous vessels underwent an extraordinary increase, or, at least,
became remarkably evident. The pulsation of the carotid arteries was uncommonly strong; the
radial arteries seemed ready to burst from their sheaths; the veins, especially the jugulars,
in which there was often a pulsatory motion, were every where turgid with blood. The countenance
was high coloured, and commonly exhibited the appearance of great health; but, when he was
indisposed from catarrh, this florid red changed to a livid colour; which also, after an attack
of epilepsy, was observable for two or three days on the face and hands. This livid hue was
often attended, under the latter circumstances, with something like ecchymosis over the face,
at first formidable in its aspect, and gradually subsiding, till it had the general appearance
of an eruption, which also soon vanished.

These symptoms increased, almost imperceptibly, during the five first months of the year 1808.
Much of this time was passed in close application to official duties; and it seemed that a
constant and regular occupation of the mind had the effect of obviating the occurrence of any
paroxysm of disease, as well of epilepsy, as of difficult respiration; and that a very sudden
and disagreeable impression generally produced either one or the other. There were, indeed,
independently of such circumstances, some occasional aggravations of those symptoms. Some nights,
for example, were passed in sitting up in bed, under a fit of asthma, as it was called; sometimes
the mind became uncommonly impatient and irritable; the body gradually emaciated; yet the appetite
and digestive functions remained principally unimpaired; and persons around were not sensible
of any material alteration in the condition of the patient.

On the approach of warm weather, in June, the violence of the symptoms increased. Paroxysms
of dyspnœa occurred more frequently, and were more distressing. They commenced with symptoms
of slight febrile affection, such as hot skin, hard, frequent, and more irregular pulse, disordered
tongue, loss of appetite, and derangement of the digestive functions. This kind of paroxysm
lasted two or three days. Evacuations of blood from the nose and hæmorrhoidal vessels, which
before rarely occurred, became frequent; a fulness at the upper and right side of the abdomen
was sometimes perceptible, formed apparently by temporary enlargement of the liver; the difficulty
in ascending an eminence increased sensibly. In the intervals of these attacks, which were
variable, but generally continuing ten or twelve days, the strength was frequently good, and
accompanied by a great flow of spirits, and an aptitude, or rather ardour, for business.

Such was the course of this complaint until the latter part of August, when a very severe paroxysm
occurred. It commenced, like the former, with febrile symptoms, but those more violent than
before. The countenance became high coloured; the dyspnœa excessive, and rendered almost suffocating
by a slight movement, or attempt to speak; the pulse hard, very irregular, intermittent, and
vibrating; and the digestive functions were suspended. These symptoms soon increased to the
highest degree. The respiration was so distressing, as to produce a wish for speedy death;
the eyes became wild and staring. No sleep could be obtained; for, after dosing a short time,
he started up in violent agitation, with the idea of having suffered a convulsion. During the
few moments of forgetfulness, the respiration was sometimes quick and irregular, sometimes
slow, and frequently suspended for the space of twenty five, and even so long as fifty seconds.
At the end of three days the febrile heat was less permanent; the red colour of the face changed
to a death like purple; the hands and face were cold, and covered with an adhesive moisture;
the hardness of the pulse diminished, and a degree of insensibility took place. I seized this
opportunity to examine the region of the heart, which had not been done before, from fear of
alarming the active and irritable mind of the patient. The heart was perceived palpitating,
obscurely, about the 7th and 8th ribs; its movements were very irregular, and consisted in
one full stroke, followed by two or three indistinct strokes, and sometimes by an intermission,
corresponding with the pulse at each wrist. The pulsation was felt more distinctly in the epigastric
region. During this paroxysm a recumbent posture was very uneasy, and the patient uniformly
preferred sitting in a chair. When the recumbent posture was assumed, the head was much raised,
inclined to the right side, and supported by the hand; the knees were drawn up as much as possible.
He could not bear an horizontal posture; nor did he ever lie on the left side, except a short
time after the application of a blister. At the end of the fifth day his sufferings abated,
but the sudden affusion of a small portion of a cold liquid on the head produced a severe fit
of epilepsy. This was followed by a return of the symptoms equally distressing, and more durable,
than in the first attack[2].

    [Footnote 2: During this time it was thought adviseable to
    acquaint his friends, that an organic disease of the heart
    existed, which doubtless consisted in an ossification of the
    semilunar valves of the aorta, attended, perhaps, by
    enlargement of the heart; that the disease was beyond the
    reach of art, and would prove fatal within three months,
    possibly very soon; that if it lasted so long, it would be
    attended by frequent recurrences of those distressing
    symptoms, general dropsical affections, and an impaired state
    of the mental faculties.]

This violent agitation gradually subsided, and was followed by a pleasant calm. The natural
functions resumed their ordinary course; his appetite returned; his enjoyment of social intercourse
was unusually great; and he amused and instructed his friends by the immense treasures of information,
which his talents and observations had afforded him, and which, he seemed to feel, would soon
be lost. At the end of September the feet began to swell, and after some time the enlargement
extended up to the legs and thighs, and increased to an extraordinary degree; the abdomen next
swelled, and, after it, the face. Toward the end of October there were some indications of
water in the chest; there was a constant shortness and difficulty of breathing; the cough,
till now rare, became more frequent and troublesome; the contraction of the thoracic cavity
rendered the action of the heart more painful, to that beside an uniform stricture across the
breast, he sometimes described a dreadful sensation like twisting of the organs in the thorax.
He suspected the existence of water there, and was inclined to consider it as his primary disease,
but was easily convinced of the contrary. At one time he had a suspicion of a complaint of
the heart, and, although he had never heard of a disease of that organ, slightly intimated
it to one of his friends, and mentioned a sensation he had experienced in the chest, which
he compared to a fluid driven through an orifice too narrow for it to pass freely. In this
month, beside the dropsical affections and increase of cough, he had occasional painful enlargements
of the liver, frequent starting up from sleep, a slight degree of dizziness, a great disposition
for reveries, and sometimes extraordinary illusions, one of which was, that he was two individuals,
each of whom was dying of a different disease. This idea often occurred, and gave him much
uneasiness. He was also afflicted with long continued frightful dreams, and sometimes a slight
delirium.

After the use of much medicine, on the 6th of November, the effused fluids began to be absorbed,
and passed out through the urinary organs with such rapidity, that on the 12th the dropsical
enlargements had nearly disappeared. The pulse was much reduced, in hardness and frequency,
by the medicine, and, as it fell, he became more easy. On the 10th the state legislature convened,
and the call of business roused, like magic, the vigor of his mind; and the symptoms of his
disease almost disappeared. During this session he made little complaint, dictated many important
communications, and attended to all the duties of his office, without neglecting the most minute.
As soon as the legislature adjourned, he declared, that his work was finished, and that he
had no desire to remain longer in this world. He entreated that no farther means should be
used to prolong his existence, and immediately yielded himself to the grasp of disease, which
appeared waiting with impatience to inflict its agonies.

From this moment the distressing difficulty of breathing had very slight remissions. The consequent
disposition to incline the superior part of the body forward, for the purpose of facilitating
respiration, increased so much, that he frequently slept with his head reposed on his knees.
The cough became occasionally very violent, and was always attended with an expectoration of
a brown coloured mucus, sometimes tinged with blood. The abdominal viscera lost their activity.
The face was sometimes turgid and high coloured, at other times pallid and contracted. A gradual
abolition of the powers of the mind ensued, with a low delirium, and two short fits of phrenzy.
The state of the circulation was very variable; the pulse at the wrists principally hard and
vibrating, rarely soft and compressible; the less pulsations becoming more indistinct, and
at length scarcely perceptible. No perfectly distinct beat of the heart was felt, but a quick
undulating motion, not corresponding with the pulse at the wrist. Three days before death the
arteries assumed this undulatory motion, corresponded with the motion of the heart, and, for
forty-eight hours, lost the irregularity of pulsation[3].

    [Footnote 3: The celebrated Morgagni has recorded some cases
    of organic disease of the heart discovered by dissection, the
    symptoms of which do not exactly accord with those observed
    in this and the succeeding cases. It should be remembered,
    however, that many of the subjects of those cases were not
    examined by him, while living, and others but a very short
    time before death. But it appears, that, in the last stage of
    this disorder, some of the most important symptoms may be
    materially changed, especially the state of the pulse,
    dyspnœa and palpitations. Thus in the case related above,
    and in some others, the pulse became regular, the
    palpitations subsided, and the dyspnœa was less observable.
    The cases of that accurate anatomist, therefore, are not so
    contradictory of those related here, as might at first be
    imagined.]

Once or twice the expiring faculties brightened. On the 30th of November he awoke, as if from
death, conversed very pleasantly for two or three hours, and humorously described scenes, which
he had witnessed in his youth.

On the 4th of December came on the second attack of furious delirium. Insensibility, and great
prostration of strength, ensued. The respiration became very slow, and obstructed by the accumulation
of mucus in the lungs; the pulse very intermittent, then regular, and finally fluctuating.
A hiccough commenced; coldness of the extremities and lividity of the face followed, and continued
three days before death. On the 9th the incurvated posture was relinquished, and the head sunk
back upon the pillow; the respirations then diminished in frequency, till they became only
two in a minute; and at the end of twenty-four hours they very gradually ceased.[4]

    [Footnote 4: Governour Sullivan was born December 4th, 1744,
    and died December 10th, 1809.]

                  DISSECTION, NINE HOURS AFTER DEATH.

                         EXTERNAL APPEARANCE.

The whole body was much emaciated; the face pale and contracted. The hands were slightly œdematous.
Discolourations, answering to the ribs, were observed on the thorax; many small purple spots,
hard and prominent, on the back; excoriations on the nates; and purple spots, resembling incipient
mortification, on the heel and toe.

                                THORAX.

The integuments of the thorax were free from fat: the cartilages of the ribs ossified in various
degrees, some perfectly, others slightly. Upon laying open the cavity of the thorax, it was
found to contain about three pints of water, the proportion being greatest on the left side.

The lungs were contracted into a smaller compass than usual, and were very firm to the touch.
Their colour anteriorly was whitish, with small distinct purple spots; posteriorly, of a deep
red, with similar spots. The right lobe adhered closely to the pericardium; it also adhered
to the pleura costalis, by a great number of strong cords, which seemed to be elongations of
the original adhesions. Some of them were nearly as hard as ligament, and many an inch in length.
Internally the lungs presented a very compact structure. Their cells were crowded with mucus,
and their vessels filled with black blood, partly fluid, and partly coagulated. Some portions
were firmer and more condensed than others, but no tubercles were discovered.

The pericardium, viewed externally, appeared very large, and occupied almost the whole space
behind the opening formed by removing the sternum and cartilages of the ribs. It was situated
principally on the left side, and contained about double the usual quantity of water; but was
principally filled by the enlarged heart, to which it adhered anteriorly about two inches,
near its base. Its parietes were, in every part, very much thickened and hardened.

The heart presented nearly its usual colour and form, excepting on its anterior surface, which
was somewhat discoloured by coagulated lymph. It was enlarged in bulk to, at least, one half
more than the healthy size. The auricles and ventricles contained coagulated blood. The tricuspid
valves were in a sound state. The left auricle was double the usual size. The left ventricle
was enlarged, about three times thicker and much firmer than usual. The mitral valves were
very much thickened, and near the insertion of their columnæ, which were sound, cartilaginous,
so that they were quite rigid, and the opening made by them, from the auricle to the ventricle,
was scarcely large enough to admit the passage of a finger. The semilunar valves of the aorta
were ossified at their bases and apices, and the portion intermediate, between the base and
apex, partly ossified, and partly cartilaginous, so as to render the valves very rigid. The
aorta was at least one half larger than usual, especially at its arch. The arteria innominata,
the carotid, and subclavian arteries, were uncommonly large and thick. The coronary arteries
were considerably ossified.

                               ABDOMEN.

The omentum was destitute of fat. The stomach distended with flatus on the pyloric side; its
cardiac extremity, lying under the liver, was pressed down and contracted. The liver was shrunk;
its tunic corrugated, as if it had been distended, and bearing marks of inflammation; its substance
harder than usual; its vessels, when divided, pouring out liquid black blood. The gall bladder
was filled with bile. The kidneys were thicker, and more irregular in form, than is common.
The abdominal cavity contained some water.

                                 HEAD.

