It was one which included self-preservation quite as much as Indian education. When I saw an
opium-eater holding a position as teacher of Indians, I did not understand what good was expected,
until a Christian in power replied that this pumpkin-colored creature had a feeble mother to
support. An inebriate paleface sat stupid in a doctor's chair, while Indian patients carried
their ailments to untimely graves, because his fair wife was dependent upon him for her daily food.

I find it hard to count that white man a teacher who tortured an ambitious Indian youth by
frequently reminding the brave changeling that he was nothing but a "government pauper."

Though I burned with indignation upon discovering on every side instances no less shameful
than those I have mentioned, there was no present help. Even the few rare ones who have worked
nobly for my race were powerless to choose workmen like themselves. To be sure, a man was sent
from the Great Father to inspect Indian schools, but what he saw was usually the students'
sample work made for exhibition. I was nettled by this sly cunning of the workmen who hookwinked
the Indian's pale Father at Washington.

My illness, which prevented the conclusion of my college course, together with my mother's
stories of the encroaching frontier settlers, left me in no mood to strain my eyes in searching
for latent good in my white co-workers.

At this stage of my own evolution, I was ready to curse men of small capacity for being the
dwarfs their God had made them. In the process of my education I had lost all consciousness
of the nature world about me. Thus, when a hidden rage took me to the small white-walled prison
which I then called my room, I unknowingly turned away from my one salvation.

Alone in my room, I sat like the petrified Indian woman of whom my mother used to tell me.
I wished my heart's burdens would turn me to unfeeling stone. But alive, in my tomb, I was
destitute!

For the white man's papers I had given up my faith in the Great Spirit. For these same papers
I had forgotten the healing in trees and brooks. On account of my mother's simple view of life,
and my lack of any, I gave her up, also. I made no friends among the race of people I loathed.
Like a slender tree, I had been uprooted from my mother, nature, and God. I was shorn of my
branches, which had waved in sympathy and love for home and friends. The natural coat of bark
which had protected my oversensitive nature was scraped off to the very quick.

Now a cold bare pole I seemed to be, planted in a strange earth. Still, I seemed to hope a
day would come when my mute aching head, reared upward to the sky, would flash a zigzag lightning
across the heavens. With this dream of vent for a long-pent consciousness, I walked again amid
the crowds.

At last, one weary day in the schoolroom, a new idea presented itself to me. It was a new way
of solving the problem of my inner self. I liked it. Thus I resigned my position as teacher;
and now I am in an Eastern city, following the long course of study I have set for myself.
Now, as I look back upon the recent past, I see it from a distance, as a whole. I remember
how, from morning till evening, many specimens of civilized peoples visited the Indian school.
The city folks with canes and eyeglasses, the countrymen with sunburnt cheeks and clumsy feet,
forgot their relative social ranks in an ignorant curiosity. Both sorts of these Christian
palefaces were alike astounded at seeing the children of savage warriors so docile and industrious.

As answers to their shallow inquiries they received the students' sample work to look upon.
Examining the neatly figured pages, and gazing upon the Indian girls and boys bending over
their books, the white visitors walked out of the schoolhouse well satisfied: they were educating
the children of the red man! They were paying a liberal fee to the government employees in
whose able hands lay the small forest of Indian timber.

In this fashion many have passed idly through the Indian schools during the last decade, afterward
to boast of their charity to the North American Indian. But few there are who have paused to
question whether real life or long-lasting death lies beneath this semblance of civilization.

THE GREAT SPIRIT

When the spirit swells my breast I love to roam leisurely among the green hills; or sometimes,
sitting on the brink of the murmuring Missouri, I marvel at the great blue overhead. With half-closed
eyes I watch the huge cloud shadows in their noiseless play upon the high bluffs opposite me,
while into my ear ripple the sweet, soft cadences of the river's song. Folded hands lie in
my lap, for the time forgot. My heart and I lie small upon the earth like a grain of throbbing
sand. Drifting clouds and tinkling waters, together with the warmth of a genial summer day,
bespeak with eloquence the loving Mystery round about us. During the idle while I sat upon
the sunny river brink, I grew somewhat, though my response be not so clearly manifest as in
the green grass fringing the edge of the high bluff back of me.

At length retracing the uncertain footpath scaling the precipitous embankment, I seek the level
lands where grow the wild prairie flowers. And they, the lovely little folk, soothe my soul
with their perfumed breath.

Their quaint round faces of varied hue convince the heart which leaps with glad surprise that
they, too, are living symbols of omnipotent thought. With a child's eager eye I drink in the
myriad star shapes wrought in luxuriant color upon the green. Beautiful is the spiritual essence
they embody.

I leave them nodding in the breeze, but take along with me their impress upon my heart. I pause
to rest me upon a rock embedded on the side of a foothill facing the low river bottom. Here
the Stone-Boy, of whom the American aborigine tells, frolics about, shooting his baby arrows
and shouting aloud with glee at the tiny shafts of lightning that flash from the flying arrow-beaks.
What an ideal warrior he became, baffling the siege of the pests of all the land till he triumphed
over their united attack. And here he lay--Inyan our great-great-grandfather, older than the
hill he rested on, older than the race of men who love to tell of his wonderful career.

Interwoven with the thread of this Indian legend of the rock, I fain would trace a subtle knowledge
of the native folk which enabled them to recognize a kinship to any and all parts of this vast
universe. By the leading of an ancient trail I move toward the Indian village.

With the strong, happy sense that both great and small are so surely enfolded in His magnitude
that, without a miss, each has his allotted individual ground of opportunities, I am buoyant
with good nature.

Yellow Breast, swaying upon the slender stem of a wild sunflower, warbles a sweet assurance
of this as I pass near by. Breaking off the clear crystal song, he turns his wee head from
side to side eyeing me wisely as slowly I plod with moccasined feet. Then again he yields himself
to his song of joy. Flit, flit hither and yon, he fills the summer sky with his swift, sweet
melody. And truly does it seem his vigorous freedom lies more in his little spirit than in
his wing.

With these thoughts I reach the log cabin whither I am strongly drawn by the tie of a child
to an aged mother. Out bounds my four-footed friend to meet me, frisking about my path with
unmistakable delight. Chän is a black shaggy dog, "a thoroughbred little mongrel" of whom I
am very fond. Chän seems to understand many words in Sioux, and will go to her mat even when
I whisper the word, though generally I think she is guided by the tone of the voice. Often
she tries to imitate the sliding inflection and long-drawn-out voice to the amusement of our
guests, but her articulation is quite beyond my ear. In both my hands I hold her shaggy head
and gaze into her large brown eyes. At once the dilated pupils contract into tiny black dots,
as if the roguish spirit within would evade my questioning.

Finally resuming the chair at my desk I feel in keen sympathy with my fellow-creatures, for
I seem to see clearly again that all are akin. The racial lines, which once were bitterly real,
now serve nothing more than marking out a living mosaic of human beings. And even here men
of the same color are like the ivory keys of one instrument where each resembles all the rest,
yet varies from them in pitch and quality of voice. And those creatures who are for a time
mere echoes of another's note are not unlike the fable of the thin sick man whose distorted
shadow, dressed like a real creature, came to the old master to make him follow as a shadow.
Thus with a compassion for all echoes in human guise, I greet the solemn-faced "native preacher"
whom I find awaiting me. I listen with respect for God's creature, though he mouth most strangely
the jangling phrases of a bigoted creed.

As our tribe is one large family, where every person is related to all the others, he addressed
me:--

"Cousin, I came from the morning church service to talk with you."

"Yes?" I said interrogatively, as he paused for some word from me.

Shifting uneasily about in the straight-backed chair he sat upon, he began: "Every holy day
(Sunday) I look about our little God's house, and not seeing you there, I am disappointed.
This is why I come today. Cousin, as I watch you from afar, I see no unbecoming behavior and
hear only good reports of you, which all the more burns me with the wish that you were a church
member. Cousin, I was taught long years ago by kind missionaries to read the holy book. These
godly men taught me also the folly of our old beliefs.

"There is one God who gives reward or punishment to the race of dead men. In the upper region
the Christian dead are gathered in unceasing song and prayer. In the deep pit below, the sinful
ones dance in torturing flames.

"Think upon these things, my cousin, and choose now to avoid the after-doom of hell fire!"
Then followed a long silence in which he clasped tighter and unclasped again his interlocked
fingers.

Like instantaneous lightning flashes came pictures of my own mother's making, for she, too,
is now a follower of the new superstition.

"Knocking out the chinking of our log cabin, some evil hand thrust in a burning taper of braided
dry grass, but failed of his intent, for the fire died out and the half-burned brand fell inward
to the floor. Directly above it, on a shelf, lay the holy book. This is what we found after
our return from a several days' visit. Surely some great power is hid in the sacred book!"

Brushing away from my eyes many like pictures, I offered midday meal to the converted Indian
sitting wordless and with downcast face. No sooner had he risen from the table with "Cousin,
I have relished it," than the church bell rang.

Thither he hurried forth with his afternoon sermon. I watched him as he hastened along, his
eyes bent fast upon the dusty road till he disappeared at the end of a quarter of a mile.

The little incident recalled to mind the copy of a missionary paper brought to my notice a
few days ago, in which a "Christian" pugilist commented upon a recent article of mine, grossly
perverting the spirit of my pen. Still I would not forget that the pale-faced missionary and
the hoodooed aborigine are both God's creatures, though small indeed their own conceptions
of Infinite Love. A wee child toddling in a wonder world, I prefer to their dogma my excursions
into the natural gardens where the voice of the Great Spirit is heard in the twittering of
birds, the rippling of mighty waters, and the sweet breathing of flowers.

Here, in a fleeting quiet, I am awakened by the fluttering robe of the Great Spirit. To my
innermost consciousness the phenomenal universe is a royal mantle, vibrating with His divine
breath. Caught in its flowing fringes are the spangles and oscillating brilliants of sun, moon,
and stars.

THE SOFT-HEARTED SIOUX

I.

Beside the open fire I sat within our tepee. With my red blanket wrapped tightly about my crossed
legs, I was thinking of the coming season, my sixteenth winter. On either side of the wigwam
were my parents. My father was whistling a tune between his teeth while polishing with his
bare hand a red stone pipe he had recently carved. Almost in front of me, beyond the center
fire, my old grandmother sat near the entranceway.

She turned her face toward her right and addressed most of her words to my mother. Now and
then she spoke to me, but never did she allow her eyes to rest upon her daughter's husband,
my father. It was only upon rare occasions that my grandmother said anything to him. Thus his
ears were open and ready to catch the smallest wish she might express. Sometimes when my grandmother
had been saying things which pleased him, my father used to comment upon them. At other times,
when he could not approve of what was spoken, he used to work or smoke silently.

On this night my old grandmother began her talk about me. Filling the bowl of her red stone
pipe with dry willow bark, she looked across at me.

"My grandchild, you are tall and are no longer a little boy." Narrowing her old eyes, she asked,
"My grandchild, when are you going to bring here a handsome young woman?" I stared into the
fire rather than meet her gaze. Waiting for my answer, she stooped forward and through the
long stem drew a flame into the red stone pipe.

I smiled while my eyes were still fixed upon the bright fire, but I said nothing in reply.
Turning to my mother, she offered her the pipe. I glanced at my grandmother. The loose buckskin
sleeve fell off at her elbow and showed a wrist covered with silver bracelets. Holding up the
fingers of her left hand, she named off the desirable young women of our village.

"Which one, my grandchild, which one?" she questioned.

"Hoh!" I said, pulling at my blanket in confusion. "Not yet!" Here my mother passed the pipe
over the fire to my father. Then she, too, began speaking of what I should do.

"My son, be always active. Do not dislike a long hunt. Learn to provide much buffalo meat and
many buckskins before you bring home a wife." Presently my father gave the pipe to my grandmother,
and he took his turn in the exhortations.

"Ho, my son, I have been counting in my heart the bravest warriors of our people. There is
not one of them who won his title in his sixteenth winter. My son, it is a great thing for
some brave of sixteen winters to do."

Not a word had I to give in answer. I knew well the fame of my warrior father. He had earned
the right of speaking such words, though even he himself was a brave only at my age. Refusing
to smoke my grandmother's pipe because my heart was too much stirred by their words, and sorely
troubled with a fear lest I should disappoint them, I arose to go. Drawing my blanket over
my shoulders, I said, as I stepped toward the entranceway: "I go to hobble my pony. It is now
late in the night."

II.

Nine winters' snows had buried deep that night when my old grandmother, together with my father
and mother, designed my future with the glow of a camp fire upon it.

Yet I did not grow up the warrior, huntsman, and husband I was to have been. At the mission
school I learned it was wrong to kill. Nine winters I hunted for the soft heart of Christ,
and prayed for the huntsmen who chased the buffalo on the plains.

