These things will help the reader to understand why it is that a man who keeps company with
glaciers comes to feel tolerably insignificant by and by. The Alps and the glaciers together
are able to take every bit of conceit out of a man and reduce his self-importance to zero if
he will only remain within the influence of their sublime presence long enough to give it a
fair and reasonable chance to do its work.

The Alpine glaciers move--that is granted, now, by everybody. But there was a time when people
scoffed at the idea; they said you might as well expect leagues of solid rock to crawl along
the ground as expect leagues of ice to do it. But proof after proof was furnished, and the
finally the world had to believe.

The wise men not only said the glacier moved, but they timed its movement. They ciphered out
a glacier's gait, and then said confidently that it would travel just so far in so many years.
There is record of a striking and curious example of the accuracy which may be attained in
these reckonings.

In 1820 the ascent of Mont Blanc was attempted by a Russian and two Englishmen, with seven
guides. They had reached a prodigious altitude, and were approaching the summit, when an avalanche
swept several of the party down a sharp slope of two hundred feet and hurled five of them (all
guides) into one of the crevices of a glacier. The life of one of the five was saved by a long
barometer which was strapped to his back--it bridged the crevice and suspended him until help
came. The alpenstock or baton of another saved its owner in a similar way. Three men were lost--Pierre
Balmat, Pierre Carrier, and Auguste Tairraz. They had been hurled down into the fathomless
great deeps of the crevice.

Dr. Forbes, the English geologist, had made frequent visits to the Mont Blanc region, and had
given much attention to the disputed question of the movement of glaciers. During one of these
visits he completed his estimates of the rate of movement of the glacier which had swallowed
up the three guides, and uttered the prediction that the glacier would deliver up its dead
at the foot of the mountain thirty-five years from the time of the accident, or possibly forty.

A dull, slow journey--a movement imperceptible to any eye--but it was proceeding, nevertheless,
and without cessation. It was a journey which a rolling stone would make in a few seconds--the
lofty point of departure was visible from the village below in the valley.

The prediction cut curiously close to the truth; forty-one years after the catastrophe, the
remains were cast forth at the foot of the glacier.

I find an interesting account of the matter in the HISTOIRE DU MONT BLANC, by Stephen d'Arve.
I will condense this account, as follows:

On the 12th of August, 1861, at the hour of the close of mass, a guide arrived out of breath
at the mairie of Chamonix, and bearing on his shoulders a very lugubrious burden. It was a
sack filled with human remains which he had gathered from the orifice of a crevice in the Glacier
des Bossons. He conjectured that these were remains of the victims of the catastrophe of 1820,
and a minute inquest, immediately instituted by the local authorities, soon demonstrated the
correctness of his supposition. The contents of the sack were spread upon a long table, and
officially inventoried, as follows:

Portions of three human skulls. Several tufts of black and blonde hair. A human jaw, furnished
with fine white teeth. A forearm and hand, all the fingers of the latter intact. The flesh
was white and fresh, and both the arm and hand preserved a degree of flexibility in the articulations.

The ring-finger had suffered a slight abrasion, and the stain of the blood was still visible
and unchanged after forty-one years. A left foot, the flesh white and fresh.

Along with these fragments were portions of waistcoats, hats, hobnailed shoes, and other clothing;
a wing of a pigeon, with black feathers; a fragment of an alpenstock; a tin lantern; and lastly,
a boiled leg of mutton, the only flesh among all the remains that exhaled an unpleasant odor.
The guide said that the mutton had no odor when he took it from the glacier; an hour's exposure
to the sun had already begun the work of decomposition upon it.

Persons were called for, to identify these poor pathetic relics, and a touching scene ensued.
Two men were still living who had witnessed the grim catastrophe of nearly half a century before--Marie
Couttet (saved by his baton) and Julien Davouassoux (saved by the barometer). These aged men
entered and approached the table. Davouassoux, more than eighty years old, contemplated the
mournful remains mutely and with a vacant eye, for his intelligence and his memory were torpid
with age; but Couttet's faculties were still perfect at seventy-two, and he exhibited strong
emotion. He said:

"Pierre Balmat was fair; he wore a straw hat. This bit of skull, with the tuft of blond hair,
was his; this is his hat. Pierre Carrier was very dark; this skull was his, and this felt hat.
This is Balmat's hand, I remember it so well!" and the old man bent down and kissed it reverently,
then closed his fingers upon it in an affectionate grasp, crying out, "I could never have dared
to believe that before quitting this world it would be granted me to press once more the hand
of one of those brave comrades, the hand of my good friend Balmat."

There is something weirdly pathetic about the picture of that white-haired veteran greeting
with his loving handshake this friend who had been dead forty years. When these hands had met
last, they were alike in the softness and freshness of youth; now, one was brown and wrinkled
and horny with age, while the other was still as young and fair and blemishless as if those
forty years had come and gone in a single moment, leaving no mark of their passage. Time had
gone on, in the one case; it had stood still in the other. A man who has not seen a friend
for a generation, keeps him in mind always as he saw him last, and is somehow surprised, and
is also shocked, to see the aging change the years have wrought when he sees him again. Marie
Couttet's experience, in finding his friend's hand unaltered from the image of it which he
had carried in his memory for forty years, is an experience which stands alone in the history
of man, perhaps.

Couttet identified other relics:

"This hat belonged to Auguste Tairraz. He carried the cage of pigeons which we proposed to
set free upon the summit. Here is the wing of one of those pigeons. And here is the fragment
of my broken baton; it was by grace of that baton that my life was saved. Who could have told
me that I should one day have the satisfaction to look again upon this bit of wood that supported
me above the grave that swallowed up my unfortunate companions!"

No portions of the body of Tairraz, other than a piece of the skull, had been found. A diligent
search was made, but without result. However, another search was instituted a year later, and
this had better success. Many fragments of clothing which had belonged to the lost guides were
discovered; also, part of a lantern, and a green veil with blood-stains on it. But the interesting
feature was this:

One of the searchers came suddenly upon a sleeved arm projecting from a crevice in the ice-wall,
with the hand outstretched as if offering greeting! "The nails of this white hand were still
rosy, and the pose of the extended fingers seemed to express an eloquent welcome to the long-lost
light of day."

The hand and arm were alone; there was no trunk. After being removed from the ice the flesh-tints
quickly faded out and the rosy nails took on the alabaster hue of death. This was the third
RIGHT hand found; therefore, all three of the lost men were accounted for, beyond cavil or
question.

Dr. Hamel was the Russian gentleman of the party which made the ascent at the time of the famous
disaster. He left Chamonix as soon as he conveniently could after the descent; and as he had
shown a chilly indifference about the calamity, and offered neither sympathy nor assistance
to the widows and orphans, he carried with him the cordial execrations of the whole community.
Four months before the first remains were found, a Chamonix guide named Balmat--a relative
of one of the lost men--was in London, and one day encountered a hale old gentleman in the
British Museum, who said:

"I overheard your name. Are you from Chamonix, Monsieur Balmat?"

"Yes, sir."

"Haven't they found the bodies of my three guides, yet? I am Dr. Hamel."

"Alas, no, monsieur."

"Well, you'll find them, sooner or later."

"Yes, it is the opinion of Dr. Forbes and Mr. Tyndall, that the glacier will sooner or later
restore to us the remains of the unfortunate victims."

"Without a doubt, without a doubt. And it will be a great thing for Chamonix, in the matter
of attracting tourists. You can get up a museum with those remains that will draw!"

This savage idea has not improved the odor of Dr. Hamel's name in Chamonix by any means. But
after all, the man was sound on human nature. His idea was conveyed to the public officials
of Chamonix, and they gravely discussed it around the official council-table. They were only
prevented from carrying it into execution by the determined opposition of the friends and descendants
of the lost guides, who insisted on giving the remains Christian burial, and succeeded in their
purpose.

A close watch had to be kept upon all the poor remnants and fragments, to prevent embezzlement.
A few accessory odds and ends were sold. Rags and scraps of the coarse clothing were parted
with at the rate equal to about twenty dollars a yard; a piece of a lantern and one or two
other trifles brought nearly their weight in gold; and an Englishman offered a pound sterling
for a single breeches-button.

CHAPTER XLI

[The Fearful Disaster of 1865]

One of the most memorable of all the Alpine catastrophes was that of July, 1865, on the Matterhorn--already
slightly referred to, a few pages back. The details of it are scarcely known in America. To
the vast majority of readers they are not known at all. Mr. Whymper's account is the only authentic
one. I will import the chief portion of it into this book, partly because of its intrinsic
interest, and partly because it gives such a vivid idea of what the perilous pastime of Alp-climbing
is. This was Mr. Whymper's NINTH attempt during a series of years, to vanquish that steep and
stubborn pillar or rock; it succeeded, the other eight were failures. No man had ever accomplished
the ascent before, though the attempts had been numerous.

MR. WHYMPER'S NARRATIVE We started from Zermatt on the 13th of July, at half past five, on
a brilliant and perfectly cloudless morning. We were eight in number--Croz (guide), old Peter
Taugwalder (guide) and his two sons; Lord F. Douglas, Mr. Hadow, Rev. Mr. Hudson, and I. To
insure steady motion, one tourist and one native walked together. The youngest Taugwalder fell
to my share. The wine-bags also fell to my lot to carry, and throughout the day, after each
drink, I replenished them secretly with water, so that at the next halt they were found fuller
than before! This was considered a good omen, and little short of miraculous.

On the first day we did not intend to ascend to any great height, and we mounted, accordingly,
very leisurely. Before twelve o'clock we had found a good position for the tent, at a height
of eleven thousand feet. We passed the remaining hours of daylight--some basking in the sunshine,
some sketching, some collecting; Hudson made tea, I coffee, and at length we retired, each
one to his blanket bag.

We assembled together before dawn on the 14th and started directly it was light enough to move.
One of the young Taugwalders returned to Zermatt. In a few minutes we turned the rib which
had intercepted the view of the eastern face from our tent platform. The whole of this great
slope was now revealed, rising for three thousand feet like a huge natural staircase. Some
parts were more, and others were less easy, but we were not once brought to a halt by any serious
impediment, for when an obstruction was met in front it could always be turned to the right
or to the left. For the greater part of the way there was no occasion, indeed, for the rope,
and sometimes Hudson led, sometimes myself. At six-twenty we had attained a height of twelve
thousand eight hundred feet, and halted for half an hour; we then continued the ascent without
a break until nine-fifty-five, when we stopped for fifty minutes, at a height of fourteen thousand
feet.

We had now arrived at the foot of that part which, seen from the Riffelberg, seems perpendicular
or overhanging. We could no longer continue on the eastern side. For a little distance we ascended
by snow upon the ARÊTE--that is, the ridge--then turned over to the right, or northern side.
The work became difficult, and required caution. In some places there was little to hold; the
general slope of the mountain was LESS than forty degrees, and snow had accumulated in, and
had filled up, the interstices of the rock-face, leaving only occasional fragments projecting
here and there. These were at times covered with a thin film of ice. It was a place which any
fair mountaineer might pass in safety. We bore away nearly horizontally for about four hundred
feet, then ascended directly toward the summit for about sixty feet, then doubled back to the
ridge which descends toward Zermatt. A long stride round a rather awkward corner brought us
to snow once more. That last doubt vanished! The Matterhorn was ours! Nothing but two hundred
feet of easy snow remained to be surmounted.

The higher we rose, the more intense became the excitement. The slope eased off, at length
we could be detached, and Croz and I, dashed away, ran a neck-and-neck race, which ended in
a dead heat. At 1:40 P.M., the world was at our feet, and the Matterhorn was conquered!

The others arrived. Croz now took the tent-pole, and planted it in the highest snow. "Yes,"
we said, "there is the flag-staff, but where is the flag?" "Here it is," he answered, pulling
off his blouse and fixing it to the stick. It made a poor flag, and there was no wind to float
it out, yet it was seen all around. They saw it at Zermatt--at the Riffel--in the Val Tournanche...
.

We remained on the summit for one hour--

One crowded hour of glorious life.

It passed away too quickly, and we began to prepare for the descent.

Hudson and I consulted as to the best and safest arrangement of the party. We agreed that it
was best for Croz to go first, and Hadow second; Hudson, who was almost equal to a guide in
sureness of foot, wished to be third; Lord Douglas was placed next, and old Peter, the strongest
of the remainder, after him. I suggested to Hudson that we should attach a rope to the rocks
on our arrival at the difficult bit, and hold it as we descended, as an additional protection.
He approved the idea, but it was not definitely decided that it should be done. The party was
being arranged in the above order while I was sketching the summit, and they had finished,
and were waiting for me to be tied in line, when some one remembered that our names had not
been left in a bottle. They requested me to write them down, and moved off while it was being done.

A few minutes afterward I tied myself to young Peter, ran down after the others, and caught
them just as they were commencing the descent of the difficult part. Great care was being taken.
Only one man was moving at a time; when he was firmly planted the next advanced, and so on.
They had not, however, attached the additional rope to rocks, and nothing was said about it.
The suggestion was not made for my own sake, and I am not sure that it ever occurred to me
again. For some little distance we two followed the others, detached from them, and should
have continued so had not Lord Douglas asked me, about 3 P.M., to tie on to old Peter, as he
feared, he said, that Taugwalder would not be able to hold his ground if a slip occurred.

A few minutes later, a sharp-eyed lad ran into the Monte Rosa Hotel, at Zermatt, saying that
he had seen an avalanche fall from the summit of the Matterhorn onto the Matterhorn glacier.
The boy was reproved for telling idle stories; he was right, nevertheless, and this was what
he saw.

Michel Croz had laid aside his ax, and in order to give Mr. Hadow greater security, was absolutely
taking hold of his legs, and putting his feet, one by one, into their proper positions. As
far as I know, no one was actually descending. I cannot speak with certainty, because the two
leading men were partially hidden from my sight by an intervening mass of rock, but it is my
belief, from the movements of their shoulders, that Croz, having done as I said, was in the
act of turning round to go down a step or two himself; at this moment Mr. Hadow slipped, fell
against him, and knocked him over. I heard one startled exclamation from Croz, then saw him
and Mr. Hadow flying downward; in another moment Hudson was dragged from his steps, and Lord
Douglas immediately after him. All this was the work of a moment. Immediately we heard Croz's
exclamation, old Peter and I planted ourselves as firmly as the rocks would permit; the rope
was taut between us, and the jerk came on us both as on one man. We held; but the rope broke
midway between Taugwalder and Lord Francis Douglas. For a few seconds we saw our unfortunate
companions sliding downward on their backs, and spreading out their hands, endeavoring to save
themselves. They passed from our sight uninjured, disappeared one by one, and fell from the
precipice to precipice onto the Matterhorn glacier below, a distance of nearly four thousand
feet in height. From the moment the rope broke it was impossible to help them. So perished
our comrades!

For more than two hours afterward I thought almost every moment that the next would be my last;
for the Taugwalders, utterly unnerved, were not only incapable of giving assistance, but were
in such a state that a slip might have been expected from them at any moment. After a time
we were able to do that which should have been done at first, and fixed rope to firm rocks,
in addition to being tied together. These ropes were cut from time to time, and were left behind.
Even with their assurance the men were afraid to proceed, and several times old Peter turned,
with ashy face and faltering limbs, and said, with terrible emphasis, "I CANNOT!"

About 6 P.M., we arrived at the snow upon the ridge descending toward Zermatt, and all peril
was over. We frequently looked, but in vain, for traces of our unfortunate companions; we bent
over the ridge and cried to them, but no sound returned. Convinced at last that they were neither
within sight nor hearing, we ceased from our useless efforts; and, too cast down for speech,
silently gathered up our things, and the little effects of those who were lost, and then completed
the descent. Such is Mr. Whymper's graphic and thrilling narrative. Zermatt gossip darkly hints
that the elder Taugwalder cut the rope, when the accident occurred, in order to preserve himself
from being dragged into the abyss; but Mr. Whymper says that the ends of the rope showed no
evidence of cutting, but only of breaking. He adds that if Taugwalder had had the disposition
to cut the rope, he would not have had time to do it, the accident was so sudden and unexpected.

Lord Douglas' body has never been found. It probably lodged upon some inaccessible shelf in
the face of the mighty precipice. Lord Douglas was a youth of nineteen. The three other victims
fell nearly four thousand feet, and their bodies lay together upon the glacier when found by
Mr. Whymper and the other searchers the next morning. Their graves are beside the little church
in Zermatt.

CHAPTER XLII

[Chillon has a Nice, Roomy Dungeon]

Switzerland is simply a large, humpy, solid rock, with a thin skin of grass stretched over
it. Consequently, they do not dig graves, they blast them out with powder and fuse. They cannot
afford to have large graveyards, the grass skin is too circumscribed and too valuable. It is
all required for the support of the living.

The graveyard in Zermatt occupies only about one-eighth of an acre. The graves are sunk in
the living rock, and are very permanent; but occupation of them is only temporary; the occupant
can only stay till his grave is needed by a later subject, he is removed, then, for they do
not bury one body on top of another. As I understand it, a family owns a grave, just as it
owns a house. A man dies and leaves his house to his son--and at the same time, this dead father
succeeds to his own father's grave. He moves out of the house and into the grave, and his predecessor
moves out of the grave and into the cellar of the chapel. I saw a black box lying in the churchyard,
with skull and cross-bones painted on it, and was told that this was used in transferring remains
to the cellar.

In that cellar the bones and skulls of several hundred of former citizens were compactly corded
up. They made a pile eighteen feet long, seven feet high, and eight feet wide. I was told that
in some of the receptacles of this kind in the Swiss villages, the skulls were all marked,
and if a man wished to find the skulls of his ancestors for several generations back, he could
do it by these marks, preserved in the family records.

An English gentleman who had lived some years in this region, said it was the cradle of compulsory
education. But he said that the English idea that compulsory education would reduce bastardy
and intemperance was an error--it has not that effect. He said there was more seduction in
the Protestant than in the Catholic cantons, because the confessional protected the girls.
I wonder why it doesn't protect married women in France and Spain?

This gentleman said that among the poorer peasants in the Valais, it was common for the brothers
in a family to cast lots to determine which of them should have the coveted privilege of marrying,
and his brethren--doomed bachelors--heroically banded themselves together to help support the
new family.

We left Zermatt in a wagon--and in a rain-storm, too--for St. Nicholas about ten o'clock one
morning. Again we passed between those grass-clad prodigious cliffs, specked with wee dwellings
peeping over at us from velvety green walls ten and twelve hundred feet high. It did not seem
possible that the imaginary chamois even could climb those precipices. Lovers on opposite cliffs
probably kiss through a spy-glass, and correspond with a rifle.

In Switzerland the farmer's plow is a wide shovel, which scrapes up and turns over the thin
earthy skin of his native rock--and there the man of the plow is a hero. Now here, by our St.
Nicholas road, was a grave, and it had a tragic story. A plowman was skinning his farm one
morning--not the steepest part of it, but still a steep part--that is, he was not skinning
the front of his farm, but the roof of it, near the eaves--when he absent-mindedly let go of
the plow-handles to moisten his hands, in the usual way; he lost his balance and fell out of
his farm backward; poor fellow, he never touched anything till he struck bottom, fifteen hundred
feet below. [This was on a Sunday.--M.T.] We throw a halo of heroism around the life of the
soldier and the sailor, because of the deadly dangers they are facing all the time. But we
are not used to looking upon farming as a heroic occupation. This is because we have not lived
in Switzerland.

From St. Nicholas we struck out for Visp--or Vispach--on foot. The rain-storms had been at
work during several days, and had done a deal of damage in Switzerland and Savoy. We came to
one place where a stream had changed its course and plunged down a mountain in a new place,
sweeping everything before it. Two poor but precious farms by the roadside were ruined. One
was washed clear away, and the bed-rock exposed; the other was buried out of sight under a
tumbled chaos of rocks, gravel, mud, and rubbish. The resistless might of water was well exemplified.
Some saplings which had stood in the way were bent to the ground, stripped clean of their bark,
and buried under rocky debris. The road had been swept away, too.

In another place, where the road was high up on the mountain's face, and its outside edge protected
by flimsy masonry, we frequently came across spots where this masonry had carved off and left
dangerous gaps for mules to get over; and with still more frequency we found the masonry slightly
crumbled, and marked by mule-hoofs, thus showing that there had been danger of an accident
to somebody. When at last we came to a badly ruptured bit of masonry, with hoof-prints evidencing
a desperate struggle to regain the lost foothold, I looked quite hopefully over the dizzy precipice.
But there was nobody down there.

They take exceedingly good care of their rivers in Switzerland and other portions of Europe.
They wall up both banks with slanting solid stone masonry--so that from end to end of these
rivers the banks look like the wharves at St. Louis and other towns on the Mississippi River.

It was during this walk from St. Nicholas, in the shadow of the majestic Alps, that we came
across some little children amusing themselves in what seemed, at first, a most odd and original
way--but it wasn't; it was in simply a natural and characteristic way. They were roped together
with a string, they had mimic alpenstocks and ice-axes, and were climbing a meek and lowly
manure-pile with a most blood-curdling amount of care and caution. The "guide" at the head
of the line cut imaginary steps, in a laborious and painstaking way, and not a monkey budged
till the step above was vacated. If we had waited we should have witnessed an imaginary accident,
no doubt; and we should have heard the intrepid band hurrah when they made the summit and looked
around upon the "magnificent view," and seen them throw themselves down in exhausted attitudes
for a rest in that commanding situation.

In Nevada I used to see the children play at silver-mining. Of course, the great thing was
an accident in a mine, and there were two "star" parts; that of the man who fell down the mimic
shaft, and that of the daring hero who was lowered into the depths to bring him up. I knew
one small chap who always insisted on playing BOTH of these parts--and he carried his point.
He would tumble into the shaft and die, and then come to the surface and go back after his
own remains.

It is the smartest boy that gets the hero part everywhere; he is head guide in Switzerland,
head miner in Nevada, head bull-fighter in Spain, etc.; but I knew a preacher's son, seven
years old, who once selected a part for himself compared to which those just mentioned are
tame and unimpressive. Jimmy's father stopped him from driving imaginary horse-cars one Sunday--stopped
him from playing captain of an imaginary steamboat next Sunday--stopped him from leading an
imaginary army to battle the following Sunday--and so on. Finally the little fellow said:

"I've tried everything, and they won't any of them do. What CAN I play?"

"I hardly know, Jimmy; but you MUST play only things that are suitable to the Sabbath-day."

Next Sunday the preacher stepped softly to a back-room door to see if the children were rightly
employed. He peeped in. A chair occupied the middle of the room, and on the back of it hung
Jimmy's cap; one of his little sisters took the cap down, nibbled at it, then passed it to
another small sister and said, "Eat of this fruit, for it is good." The Reverend took in the
situation--alas, they were playing the Expulsion from Eden! Yet he found one little crumb of
comfort. He said to himself, "For once Jimmy has yielded the chief role--I have been wronging
him, I did not believe there was so much modesty in him; I should have expected him to be either
Adam or Eve." This crumb of comfort lasted but a very little while; he glanced around and discovered
Jimmy standing in an imposing attitude in a corner, with a dark and deadly frown on his face.
What that meant was very plain--HE WAS IMPERSONATING THE DEITY! Think of the guileless sublimity
of that idea.

We reached Vispach at 8 P.M., only about seven hours out from St. Nicholas. So we must have
made fully a mile and a half an hour, and it was all downhill, too, and very muddy at that.
We stayed all night at the Hotel de Soleil; I remember it because the landlady, the portier,
the waitress, and the chambermaid were not separate persons, but were all contained in one
neat and chipper suit of spotless muslin, and she was the prettiest young creature I saw in
all that region. She was the landlord's daughter. And I remember that the only native match
to her I saw in all Europe was the young daughter of the landlord of a village inn in the Black
Forest. Why don't more people in Europe marry and keep hotel?

Next morning we left with a family of English friends and went by train to Brevet, and thence
by boat across the lake to Ouchy (Lausanne).

Ouchy is memorable to me, not on account of its beautiful situation and lovely surroundings--although
these would make it stick long in one's memory--but as the place where I caught the London
TIMES dropping into humor. It was NOT aware of it, though. It did not do it on purpose. An
English friend called my attention to this lapse, and cut out the reprehensible paragraph for
me. Think of encountering a grin like this on the face of that grim journal:

ERRATUM.--We are requested by Reuter's Telegram Company to correct an erroneous announcement
made in their Brisbane telegram of the 2d inst., published in our impression of the 5th inst.,
stating that "Lady Kennedy had given birth to twins, the eldest being a son." The Company explain
that the message they received contained the words "Governor of Queensland, TWINS FIRST SON."
Being, however, subsequently informed that Sir Arthur Kennedy was unmarried and that there
must be some mistake, a telegraphic repetition was at once demanded. It has been received today
(11th inst.) and shows that the words really telegraphed by Reuter's agent were "Governor Queensland
TURNS FIRST SOD," alluding to the Maryborough-Gympic Railway in course of construction. The
words in italics were mutilated by the telegraph in transmission from Australia, and reaching
the company in the form mentioned above gave rise to the mistake.

I had always had a deep and reverent compassion for the sufferings of the "prisoner of Chillon,"
whose story Byron had told in such moving verse; so I took the steamer and made pilgrimage
to the dungeons of the Castle of Chillon, to see the place where poor Bonnivard endured his
dreary captivity three hundred years ago. I am glad I did that, for it took away some of the
pain I was feeling on the prisoner's account. His dungeon was a nice, cool, roomy place, and
I cannot see why he should have been dissatisfied with it. If he had been imprisoned in a St.
Nicholas private dwelling, where the fertilizer prevails, and the goat sleeps with the guest,
and the chickens roost on him and the cow comes in and bothers him when he wants to muse, it
would have been another matter altogether; but he surely could not have had a very cheerless
time of it in that pretty dungeon. It has romantic window-slits that let in generous bars of
light, and it has tall, noble columns, carved apparently from the living rock; and what is
more, they are written all over with thousands of names; some of them--like Byron's and Victor
Hugo's--of the first celebrity. Why didn't he amuse himself reading these names? Then there
are the couriers and tourists--swarms of them every day--what was to hinder him from having
a good time with them? I think Bonnivard's sufferings have been overrated.

Next, we took the train and went to Martigny, on the way to Mont Blanc. Next morning we started,
about eight o'clock, on foot. We had plenty of company, in the way of wagon-loads and mule-loads
of tourists--and dust. This scattering procession of travelers was perhaps a mile long. The
road was uphill--interminable uphill--and tolerably steep. The weather was blisteringly hot,
and the man or woman who had to sit on a creeping mule, or in a crawling wagon, and broil in
the beating sun, was an object to be pitied. We could dodge among the bushes, and have the
relief of shade, but those people could not. They paid for a conveyance, and to get their money's
worth they rode.

We went by the way of the Tête Noir, and after we reached high ground there was no lack of
fine scenery. In one place the road was tunneled through a shoulder of the mountain; from there
one looked down into a gorge with a rushing torrent in it, and on every hand was a charming
view of rocky buttresses and wooded heights. There was a liberal allowance of pretty waterfalls,
too, on the Tête Noir route.

About half an hour before we reached the village of Argentière a vast dome of snow with the
sun blazing on it drifted into view and framed itself in a strong V-shaped gateway of the mountains,
and we recognized Mont Blanc, the "monarch of the Alps." With every step, after that, this
stately dome rose higher and higher into the blue sky, and at last seemed to occupy the zenith.

Some of Mont Blanc's neighbors--bare, light-brown, steeplelike rocks--were very peculiarly
shaped. Some were whittled to a sharp point, and slightly bent at the upper end, like a lady's
finger; one monster sugar-loaf resembled a bishop's hat; it was too steep to hold snow on its
sides, but had some in the division.

While we were still on very high ground, and before the descent toward Argentière began, we
looked up toward a neighboring mountain-top, and saw exquisite prismatic colors playing about
some white clouds which were so delicate as to almost resemble gossamer webs. The faint pinks
and greens were peculiarly beautiful; none of the colors were deep, they were the lightest
shades. They were bewitching commingled. We sat down to study and enjoy this singular spectacle.
The tints remained during several minutes--flitting, changing, melting into each other; paling
almost away for a moment, then reflushing--a shifting, restless, unstable succession of soft
opaline gleams, shimmering over that air film of white cloud, and turning it into a fabric
dainty enough to clothe an angel with.

By and by we perceived what those super-delicate colors, and their continuous play and movement,
reminded us of; it is what one sees in a soap-bubble that is drifting along, catching changes
of tint from the objects it passes. A soap-bubble is the most beautiful thing, and the most
exquisite, in nature; that lovely phantom fabric in the sky was suggestive of a soap-bubble
split open, and spread out in the sun. I wonder how much it would take to buy a soap-bubble,
if there was only one in the world? One could buy a hatful of Koh-i-Noors with the same money,
no doubt.

We made the tramp from Martigny to Argentière in eight hours. We beat all the mules and wagons;
we didn't usually do that. We hired a sort of open baggage-wagon for the trip down the valley
to Chamonix, and then devoted an hour to dining. This gave the driver time to get drunk. He
had a friend with him, and this friend also had had time to get drunk.

When we drove off, the driver said all the tourists had arrived and gone by while we were at
dinner; "but," said he, impressively, "be not disturbed by that--remain tranquil--give yourselves
no uneasiness--their dust rises far before us--rest you tranquil, leave all to me--I am the
king of drivers. Behold!"

Down came his whip, and away we clattered. I never had such a shaking up in my life. The recent
flooding rains had washed the road clear away in places, but we never stopped, we never slowed
down for anything. We tore right along, over rocks, rubbish, gullies, open fields--sometimes
with one or two wheels on the ground, but generally with none. Every now and then that calm,
good-natured madman would bend a majestic look over his shoulder at us and say, "Ah, you perceive?
It is as I have said--I am the king of drivers." Every time we just missed going to destruction,
he would say, with tranquil happiness, "Enjoy it, gentlemen, it is very rare, it is very unusual--it
is given to few to ride with the king of drivers--and observe, it is as I have said, I am he."

He spoke in French, and punctuated with hiccoughs. His friend was French, too, but spoke in
German--using the same system of punctuation, however. The friend called himself the "Captain
of Mont Blanc," and wanted us to make the ascent with him. He said he had made more ascents
than any other man--forty seven--and his brother had made thirty-seven. His brother was the
best guide in the world, except himself--but he, yes, observe him well--he was the "Captain
of Mont Blanc"--that title belonged to none other.

The "king" was as good as his word--he overtook that long procession of tourists and went by
it like a hurricane. The result was that we got choicer rooms at the hotel in Chamonix than
we should have done if his majesty had been a slower artist--or rather, if he hadn't most providentially
got drunk before he left Argentière.