'Yes, dear, but you must go and dress. Breakfast is ready.'

Henrietta was a little shocked that Aunt Sophia, who was naturally sentimental, should be less
emotional on this occasion than Aunt Rose, but she was also awed by this control. She remembered
how, when her own mother died, Mrs. Banks had refused to take solid food for a whole day, and
the recollection braced her for her cold bath, for fresh linen, for emulation of Aunt Sophia,
for everything unlike the slovenly weeping of Mrs. Banks, sitting in the neglected kitchen
with a grimy pocket-handkerchief on her lap and the teapot at her elbow; but she knew that
the Banksian manner was really natural to her, and the Mallett control, the acceptance, the
same eating of breakfast, were a pose, a falseness oddly better than her sincerity.

At table no one referred to Caroline; they were practical and composed and afterwards, when
Sophia and Rose were closeted together, making arrangements, writing letters to relatives of
whom Henrietta had never heard, interviewing Mr. Batty and a husky personage in black, Henrietta
stole upstairs past Caroline's death chamber and into her own room.

She was glad to find the pretty housemaid there, tidying the hearth and dusting the furniture.
She wanted to talk to somebody and the pretty housemaid was sympathetic and discreet. She told
Henrietta, inevitably, of deaths in her own family, and Henrietta was interested to hear how
the housemaid's grandmother had died, actually while she was saying her prayers.

'And you couldn't have a better end than that, could you, Miss Henrietta?'

'I suppose not,' Henrietta said, 'but it might depend on what you were praying for.'

'Oh, she would be saying the usual things, Miss Henrietta, just daily bread and forgive our
trespasses. There was no harm in my grandmother. It was her husband who broke his neck picking
apples. His own apples,' she said hastily, 'And now poor Mrs. Sales has gone.'

'Mrs. Sales?'

'Yes, Miss Henrietta, I thought you'd know--last night. Her and Miss Caroline together.' She
implied that in this journey they would be company for each other.

Henrietta found nothing to say, but above the shock of pity she felt for the woman she had
disliked and the awe induced by the name of death, she was conscious of a load lifted from
her mind: she had not been deserted, her charm had not failed; it was the approach of death
that had held him back. She put the thought away lest it should lead to others of which she
would be ashamed, yet she felt a malicious pleasure, lasting only for a second, at remembering
that downstairs sat Aunt Rose calmly full of affairs, Aunt Rose for whom the love of Francis
Sales had ceased too soon! And, suppressed but fermenting, was the idea that in these late
events, including the failure of her escape, there was the kind hand of fate.

At that very moment Charles Batty chose to call.

'With a parcel, Miss Henrietta, and he would like to see you.'

'I can't see him,' Henrietta said. 'Tell him--tell him about Miss Caroline.' She had already
drifted away from Charles. He had been so near last night, so almost dear in the troubled fog
of her distress, but this morning she had drifted and between them there was a shining space
of water sparkling hardly. But she spared him an instant of gratitude and softness. His part
in her life was like that, to a sailor, of some lightship eagerly looked for in the darkness,
of strangely diminished consequence in the clear day, still there, safely anchored, but with
half its significance gone.

'I can't see him,' she repeated.

She wanted, suddenly, to see Aunt Rose. Voices no longer came from the drawing-room. Mr. Batty,
genuinely sad in the loss of an old friend, had gone; the undertaker had tiptoed off to his
gloomy lair, and Henrietta went downstairs, but when she saw her aunt she dared not ask her
if she knew about Christabel Sales. Rose had a look of invulnerability; perhaps she knew, but
it was impossible to ask, and if she knew, it had made no difference. It seemed as though she
had gone beyond the reach of feeling: she and Sophia both wore white masks, but Sophia's was
only a few hours old and Rose's had been gradually assumed. It was not only Caroline's death
which had given her that strange, calm face: the expression had grown slowly, as though something
had been a long time dying, yet she hardly had a look of loss. She seemed to be in possession
of something, but Henrietta could not understand what it was and she was vaguely afraid.

It was Aunt Sophia who, in spite of her amazing courage, had an air of desolation. And there
was no rouge on her cheeks: its absence made Henrietta want to cry. She did cry at intervals
throughout that day and the ones that followed. It was terrible without Aunt Caroline and pitiful
to see Aunt Sophia keeping up her dignity among black-clothed, black-beaded relatives who seemed
to appear out of the ground like snails after rain and who might have been part of the undertaker's
permanent stock-in-trade. Henrietta hated the mournful looks of these ancient cousins, the
shaking of their black beads, their sibilant whisperings, and in their presence she was dry-eyed
and rather rude. Aunt Caroline would have laughed at them and their dowdy clothes that smelt
of camphor, but it seemed as though no one would ever laugh again in Nelson Lodge.

And over the river, in the unsubdued country, where death was only the repayment of a loan,
there was another house with lowered blinds and voices hushed. She was irritated by the thought
of it, of the consolatory letters Francis would receive, of the emotions he would display,
or conceal, but at the same time she was sorry that in death, as in life, Christabel should
be lonely. Her large and lively family was far away, even the cat had gone, and there were
only the nurse and Francis and the little dog to miss her. In a sense Henrietta missed her
too, and that fair region of fields and woods which had been as though blocked by that helpless
body now lay open, vast, full of possibilities, inviting exploration; and when Henrietta looked
at her Aunt Rose, it was with the jealous eye of a rival adventurer. But that was absurd: there
could be no rivalry between them. Henrietta was sure of that and she tried to avoid these speculations.

And meanwhile necessary things were done and Christabel Sales and Caroline Mallett were buried
on the same day. The beaded relatives departed, not to reappear until the next death in the
family, and Rose and Henrietta, both perhaps thinking of Francis Sales returning to his big
empty house, returned with Sophia to a Nelson Lodge oppressive in its desolation. It seemed
now that the whole business of life there, the servants, the fires, the delicate meals, had
proceeded solely for Caroline's benefit; yet everything continued as before: the machinery
went on running smoothly; the dinner-table still reflected in its rich surface the lights of
candles, the sheen of silver, the pallor of flowers. Nothing was neglected, everything was
beautiful and exact, and Susan had carefully arranged the chairs so that the vacant space should
not be emphasized.

The three black-robed women slipped into their seats without a word. The soup was very hot,
according to Caroline's instructions, but the cook, inspired more by the desire to give pleasant
nutriment than by tact, had chosen to make the creamy variety which was Caroline's favourite
and, as each Mallett took up her spoon, she had a vision of Caroline tasting the soup with
the thoughtfulness of a connoisseur and proclaiming it perfect to the last grain of salt.

