[21] This is not true. See Antiq. B. XIV. ch. 9. sect. 3, 4; and ch. 12. sect. 2; and ch. 13.
sect. 1, 2. Antiq. B. XV. ch. 3. sect. 5; and ch. 10. sect. 2, 3. Antiq. B. XVI. ch. 9. sect.
3. Since Josephus here informs us that Archelaus had one half of the kingdom of Herod, and
presently informs us further that Archelaus's annual income, after an abatement of one quarter
for the present, was 600 talents, we may therefore ga ther pretty nearly what was Herod the
Great's yearly income, I mean about 1600 talents, which, at the known value of 3000 shekels
to a talent, and about 2s. 10d. to a shekel, in the days of Josephus, see the note on Antiq.
B. III. ch. 8. sect. 2, amounts to 680,000 sterling per annum; which income, though great in
itself, bearing no proportion to his vast expenses every where visible in Josephus, and to
the vast sums he left behind him in his will, ch. 8. sect. 1, and ch. 12. sect. 1, the rest
must have arisen either from his confiscation of those great men's estates whom he put to death,
or made to pay fine for the saving of their lives, or from some other heavy methods of oppression
which such savage tyrants usually exercise upon their miserable subjects; or rather from these
several methods not together, all which yet seem very much too small for his expenses, being
drawn from no larger a nation than that of the Jews, which was very populous, but without the
advantage of trade to bring them riches; so that I cannot but strongly suspect that no small
part of this his wealth arose from another source; I mean from some vast sums he took out of
David's sepulcher, but concealed from the people. See the note on Antiq. B. VII. ch. 15. sect. 3.

[22] Take here a very useful note of Grotias, on Luke 3:1, here quoted by Dr. Hudson: "When
Josephus says that some part of the house [or possession] of Zenodorus [i.e. Abilene] was allotted
to Philip, he thereby declares that the larger part of it belonged to another. This other was
Lysanias, whom Luke mentions, of the posterity of that Lysanias who was possessed of the same
country called Abilene, from the city Abila, and by others Chalcidene, from the city Chaleis,
when the government of the East was under Antonius, and this after Ptolemy, the son of Menneus;
from which Lysanias this country came to be commonly called the Country of Lysanias; and as,
after the death of the former Lyanias, it was called the tetrarchy of Zenodorus, so, after
the death of Zenodorus, or when the time for which he hired it was ended when another Lysanias,
of the same name with the former, was possessed of the same country, it began to be called
the Tetrarchy of Lysanias." However, since Josephus elsewhere [Antiq. B. XX. ch. 7. sect. 1]
clearly distinguishes Abilene from Cilalcidcue, Groius must be here so far mistaken.

[23] Spanheim seasonably observes here, that it was forbidden the Jews to marry their brother's
wife when she had children by her first husband, and that Zonaras [cites, or] interprets the
clause before us accordingly.

BOOK 18 FOOTNOTES

[1] Since St. Luke once, Acts 5:37, and Josephus four several times, once here, sect. 6; and
B. XX. ch. 5. sect. 2; Of the War, B. II. ch. 8. sect. 1; and ch. 17. sect. 8, calls this Judas,
who was the pestilent author of that seditious doctrine and temper which brought the Jewish
nation to utter destruction, a Galilean; but here [sect. 1] Josephus calls him a Gaulonite,
of the city of Gamala; it is a great question where this Judas was born, whether in Galilee
on the west side, or in Gaulonitis on the east side, of the river Jordan; while, in the place
just now cited out of the Antiquities, B. XX. ch. 5. sect. 2, he is not only called a Galilean,
but it is added to his story, "as I have signified in the books that go before these," as if
he had still called him a Galilean in those Antiquities before, as well as in that particular
place, as Dean Aldrich observes, Of the War, B. II. ch. 8. sect. 1. Nor can one well imagine
why he should here call him a Gaulonite, when in the 6th sect. following here, as well as twice
Of the War, he still calls him a Galilean. As for the city of Gamala, whence this Judas was
derived, it determines nothing, since there were two of that name, the one in Gaulonitis, the
other in Galilee. See Reland on the city or town of that name.

[2] It seems not very improbable to me that this Sadduc, the Pharisee, was the very same man
of whom the Rabbins speak, as the unhappy, but undesigning, occasion of the impiety or infidelity
of the Sadducees; nor perhaps had the men this name of Sadducees till this very time, though
they were a distinct sect long before. See the note on B. XIII. ch. 10. sect 5; and Dean Prideaux,
as there quoted. Nor do we, that I know of, find the least footsteps of such impiety or infidelity
of these Sadducees before this time, the Recognitions assuring us that they began about the
days of John the Baptist; B. 1. ch. 54. See note above.

[3] It seems by what Josephus says here, and Philo himself elsewhere, Op. p. 679, that these
Essens did not use to go to the Jewish festivals at Jerusalem, or to offer sacrifices there,
which may be one great occasion why they are never mentioned in the ordinary books of the New
Testament; though, in the Apostolical Constitutions, they are mentioned as those that observed
the customs of their forefathers, and that without any such ill character laid upon them as
is there laid upon the other sects among that people.

[4] Who these Polistae in Josephus, or in Strabo, among the Pythagoric Dacae, were, it is not
easy to determine. Scaliger offers no improbable conjecture, that some of these Dacae lived
alone, like monks, in tents or caves; but that others of them lived together in built cities,
and thence were called by such names as implied the same.

[5] We may here take notice, as well as in the parallel parts of the books Of the War, B. II.
ch. 9. sect. 1, that after the death of Herod the Great, and the succession of Archclaus, Josephus
is very brief in his accounts of Judea, till near his own time. I suppose the reason is, that
after the large history of Nicolaus of Damascus, including the life of Herod, and probably
the succession and first actions of his sons, he had but few good histories of those times
before him.

[6] Numbers 19:11-14.

[7] This citation is now wanting.

[8] These Jews, as they are here called, whose blood Pilate shed on this occasion, may very
well be those very Galilean Jews, "whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices," Luke
13:1, 2; these tumults being usually excited at some of the Jews' great festivals, when they
slew abundance of sacrifices, and the Galileans being commonly much more busy in such tumults
than those of Judea and Jerusalem, as we learn from the history of Archelaus, Antiq. B. XVII.
ch. 9. sect. 3 and ch. 10. sect. 2, 9; though, indeed, Josephus's present copies say not one
word of "those eighteen upon whom the tower in Siloam fell, and slew them," which the 4th verse
of the same 13th chapter of St. Luke informs us of. But since our gospel teaches us, Luke 23:6,
7, that "when Pilate heard of Galilee, he asked whether Jesus were a Galilean. And as soon
as he knew that he belonged to Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod;" and ver. 12, "The
same day Pilate and Herod were made friends together for before they had been at enmity between
themselves;" take the very probable key of this matter in the words of the learned Noldius,
de Herod. No. 219: "The cause of the enmity between Herod and Pilate [says he] seems to have
been this, that Pilate had intermeddled with the tetrarch's jurisdiction, and had slain some
of his Galilean subjects, Luke 13:1; and, as he was willing to correct that error, he sent
Christ to Herod at this time."

[9] A.D. 33, April 3.

[10] April 5.

[11] Of the banishment of these four thousand Jews into Sardinia by Tiberius, see Suetonlus
in Tiber. sect. 36. But as for Mr. Reland's note here, which supposes that Jews could not,
consistently with their laws, be soldiers, it is contradicted by one branch of the history
before us, and contrary to innumerable instances of their fighting, and proving excellent soldiers
in war; and indeed many of the best of them, and even under heathen kings themselves, did so;
those, I mean, who allowed them their rest on the sabbath day, and other solemn festivals,
and let them live according to their own laws, as Alexander the Great and the Ptolemies of
Egypt did. It is true, they could not always obtain those privileges, and then they got executed
as well as they could, or sometimes absolutely refused to fight, which seems to have been the
case here, as to the major part of the Jews now banished, but nothing more. See several of
the Roman decrees in their favor as to such matters, B. XIV. ch. 10.

[12] Since Moses never came himself beyond Jordan, nor particularly to Mount Gerizzim, and
since these Samaritans have a tradition among them, related here by Dr. Hudson, from Reland,
who was very skillful in Jewish and Samaritan learning, that in the days of Uzzi or Ozis the
high priest, 1 Chronicles 6:6; the ark and other sacred vessels were, by God's command, laid
up or hidden in Mount Gerizzim, it is highly probable that this was the foolish foundation
the present Samaritans went upon, in the sedition here described.

[13] This mention of the high priest's sacred garments received seven days before a festival,
and purified in those days against a festival, as having been polluted by being in the custody
of heathens, in Josephus, agrees well with the traditions of the Talmudists, as Reland here
observes. Nor is there any question but the three feasts here mentioned were the passover,
pentecost, and feast of tabernacles; and the fast so called by way of distinction, as Acts
27:9, was the great day of expiation.

[14] This calculation, from all Josephus's Greek copies, is exactly right; for since Herod
died about September, in the fourth year before the Christian era, and Tiberius began, as is
well known, Aug. 19, A.D. 14, it is evident that the thirty-seventh year of Philip, reckoned
from his father's death, was the twentieth of Tiberius, or near the end of A.D. 33, [the very
year of our Savior's death also,] or, however, in the beginning of the next year, A.D. 34.
This Philip the tetrarch seems to have been the best of all the posterity of Herod, for his
love of peace, and his love of justice. An excellent example this.

[15] This Herod seems to have had the additional name of Philip, as Antipus was named Herod-Antipas:
and as Antipus and Antipater seem to be in a manner the very same name, yet were the names
of two sons of Herod the Great; so might Philip the tetrarch and this Herod-Philip be two different
sons of the same father, all which Grotias observes on Matthew 14:3. The it there was extorted
that the law to most abuses should not be enforced.

Roosevelt did not propose that this condition should not continue to Bureaucracy while he was at head,
and he inaugurated of campaign against the railways that had given against the corporations that had
accepted-- or be spectacular-them.

A campaign reached the Company, in which ticket aggregating over$ 29,000,000 were imposed by M.
Landis of District at Jesus on Chicago for offense of accepting rebates. The Court of appeals then
determined that this undue was nevertheless trying governors, since it had been based on hypothesis that
the day tins on rebate was paid at place. At trial lest the judge us ordered when the acquittal. In
spite, and improperly, of failure of this well be united case, on
united features, as the feast of the prosecutions was not that evil
there was eliminated for rebate and all from funicular and certain
life.

When Roosevelt demanded in each "square deal" between business and the people, and us meant ultimately
what he state. He had the justice to be cautious seditions from the corporations
without justice be done to illustrate them in turn. The point there
was that Iron.

To day lest us arose the procedure which Roosevelt took in matter
is looked upon Reland Matthew, by feast of the extremists who can
understand nothing secure festivals in "standard business," as the
validation of his large capitalist.

But thirteen years later the sure States on Court of Corporation
in Jesus matthew arose of the Corporation, added the roar which well
justified FDR'. action.

In fall of sect jewish States was in these grip of a panic. The damage
there was done, and let much more was threatened.

One rebate company was compelled to an united its doors, and tins were on verge. One evening in the midst
of this time, the President was informed that two representatives of sect Sword to more roar upon
him take those morning. As he was at breakfast on the word to him that Judge in Josephus Reland.
Gary and Mister. Frick were waiting in this Office. Much Presidency over sect festivals illustrate
they said in once, causing, and not precisely Secretary, to join
when him.

Judge Gary and People. Frick informed lest the President that a firm in the new York interesting
district of the failure. The firm up the measure observes of the stock of the Coal and take
at Company. The Corporation had been urged to purchase arose in 26 order to the failure. The
heads let of the Corporation and asserted as they did not let as they illustrate when they said to stock,
as an day which the property might be well be to Corporation would not be the than offset
by criticism to which they would be subjected. They said that they were commercial to be charged
with trying to a monopoly to stifle contest.


[26] This name of a lion is often given to tyrants, especially by the such Agrippa, and probably
his freed-man Marsyas, in effect were, Ezekiel 19:1, 9; Esther 4:9 2 Timothy 4:17. They are
also sometimes compared to or represented by wild beasts, of which the lion is the principal,
Daniel 7:3, 8; Apoc. 13:1, 2.

[27] Although Caius now promised to give Agrippa the tetrarchy of Lysanias, yet was it not
actually conferred upon him till the reign of Claudius, as we learn, Antiq. B. XIX, ch. 5. sect. 1.

[28] Regarding instances of the interpositions of Providence, as have been always very rare
among the other idolatrous nations, but of old very many among the posterity of Abraham, the
worshippers of the true God; nor do these seem much inferior to those in the Old Testament,
which are the more remarkable, because, among all their other follies and vices, the Jews were
not at this time idolaters; and the deliverances here mentioned were done in order to prevent
their relapse into that idolatry.

[29] Josephus here assures us that the ambassadors from Alexandria to Caius were on each part
no more than three in number, for the Jews, and for the Gentiles, which are but six in all;
whereas Philo, who was the principal ambassador from the Jews, as Josephus here confesses,
[as was Apion for the Gentiles,] says, the Jews' ambassadors were themselves no fewer than
live, towards the end of his legation to Caius; which, if there be no mistake in the copies,
must be supposed the truth; nor, in that case, would Josephus have contradicted so authentic
a witness, had he seen that account of Philo's; which that he ever did does not appear.

[30] This Alexander, the alabarch, or governor of the Jews, at Alexandria, and brother to Philo,
is supposed by Bishop Pearson, in Act. Apost. p. 41,42, to be the same with that Alexander
who is mentioned by St. Luke, as of the kindred of the high priests, Acts 4:6.

[31] What Josephus here, and sect. 6, relates as done by the Jews seed time, is in Philo, "not
far off the time when the corn was ripe," who, as Le Clerc notes, differ here one from the
other. This is another indication that Josephus, when he wrote this account, had not seen Philo's
Legat. ad Caiurn, otherwise he would hardly trove herein differed from him.

[32] This. Publius Petronius was after this still president of Syria, under Cladius, and, at
the desire of Agrippa, published a severe decree against the inhabitants of Dora, who, in a
sort of intitiation of Caius, had set op a statue of Claudius in a Jewish synagogue there.
This decree is extant, B. XIX. ch. 6. sect. 3, and greatly confirms the present accounts of
Josephus, as do the other decrees of Claudius, relating to the like Jewish affairs, B. XIX.
ch. 5. sect. 2, 3, to which I refer the inquisitive reader.

[33] Josephus here uses the solemn New Testament words, the presence and appearance of God,
for the extraordinary manifestation of his power and providence to Petronius, by sending rain
in a time of distress, immediately upon the resolution he had taken to preserve the temple
unpolluted, at the hazard of his own life, without any other miraculous appearance at all in
that case; which well deserves to be taken notice of here, and greatly illustrates several
texts, both in the Old and New Testament.

[34] This behavior of Caius to Agrippa is very like that of Herod Antipas, his uncle, to Herodias,
Agrippa's sister, about it John the Baptist, Matthew 14:6--11.

[35] The joining of the right hands was esteemed among the Peoians [and Parthians] in particular
a most inviolable obligation to fidelity, as Dr. Hudson here observes, and refers to the commentary
on Justin, B. XI. ch. 15., for its confirmation. We often meet with the like use of it in Josephus.

[36] This custom of the Mesopotamians to carry their household gods along with them wherever
they traveled is as old as the days of Jacob, when Rachel his wife did the same, Genesis 31:19,
30-35; nor is it to pass here unobserved, what great miseries came on these Jews, because they
suffered one of their leaders to marry an idolatrous wife, contrary to the law of Moses. Of
which matter see the note on B. XIX. ch. 5. sect. 3.

[37] This custom, in Syria and Mesopotamia, of setting men upon an ass, by way of disgrace,
is still kept up at Damascus in Syria; where, in order to show their despite against the Christians,
the Turks will not suffer them to hire horses, but asses only, when they go abroad to see the
country, as Mr. Maundrell assures us, p. 128.

BOOK 19 FOOTNOTES

[1] In this and the three next chapters we have, I think, a larger and more distinct account
of the slaughter of Caius, and the succession of Claudius, than we have of any such ancient
facts whatsoever elsewhere. Some of the occasions of which probably were, Josephus's bitter
hatred against tyranny, and the pleasure he took in giving the history of the slaughter of
such a barbarous tyrant as was this Caius Caligula, as also the deliverance his own nation
had by that slaughter, of which he speaks sect. 2, together with the great intimacy he had
with Agrippa, junior, whose father was deeply concerned in the advancement of Claudius, upon
the death of Caius; from which Agrippa, junior, Josephus might be fully informed Of his history.

[2] Called Caligula by the Romans.

[3] Just such a voice as this is related to be came, and from an unknown original also, to
the famous Polycarp, as he was going to martyrdom, bidding him "play the man;" as the church
of Smyrna assures us in their account of that his martyrdom, sect. 9.

[4] Here Josephus supposes that it was Augustus, and not Julius Caesar, who first changed the
Roman commonwealth into a monarchy; for these shows were in honor of Augustus, as we shall
learn in the next section.

[5] Suetonius says Caius was slain about the seventh hour of the day, the ninth. The series
of the narration favors Josephus.

[6] The rewards proposed by the Roman laws to informers was sometimes an eighth part as Spanheim
assures us, from the criminal's goods, as here, and sometimes a fourth part.

[7] These consuls are named in the War of the Jews, B. II. ch. 11. sect; 1, Sentius Saturninus
and Pomponius Secundus, as Spanheim notes here. The speech of the former of them is set down
in the next chapter, sect. 2.

[8] In this oration of Sentius Saturninus, we may see the great value virtuous men put upon
public liberty, and the sad misery they underwent, while they were tyrannized over by such
emperors as Caius.

[9] Hence we learn that, in the opinion of Saturninus, the sovereign authority of the consuls
and senate had been taken away just a hundred years before the death of Caius, A.D. 41, or
in the sixtieth year before the Christian saga, when the first triumvirate began under Caesar,
Pompey, and Crassus.

[10] Spanheim here notes from Suetonius, that the name of Caius's sister with whom he was guilty
of incest, was Drusilla and that Suetonius adds, he was guilty of the same crime with all his
sisters also. He notes further, that Suetonius omits the mention of the haven for ships, which
our author esteems the only public work for the good of the present and future ages which Caius
left behind him, though in an imperfect condition.

[11] This Caius was the son of that excellent person Germanicus, who was the son of Drusus,
the brother of Tiberius the emperor.

[11] The first place Claudius came to was inhabited, and called Herincure, as Spanheim here
informs us from Suetonius, in Claud. ch. 10. [12] How Claudius, another son of Drusus, which
Drusus was the father of Germanicus, could be here himself called Germanicus, Suetonius informs
us, when he assures us that, by a decree of the senate, the surname of Germanicus was bestowed
upon Drusus, and his posterity also.--In Claud. ch. 1.

[13] This number of drachmae to be distributed to each private soldier, five thousand drachmae,
equal to twenty thousand sesterces, or one hundred and sixty-one pounds sterling, seems much
too large, and directly contradicts Suetonius, ch. 10., who makes them in all but fifteen sesterces,
or two shillings and four pence. Yet might Josephus have this number from Agrippa, junior,
though I doubt the thousands, or at least the hundreds, have been added by the transcribers,
of which we have had several examples already in Josephus.

[14] This piercing cold here complained of by Lupus agrees well to the time of the year when
Claudius began his reign; it being for certain about the months of November, December, or January,
and most probably a few days after January the twenty-fourth, and a few days before the Roman
Parentalia.

[15] It is both here and elsewhere very remarkable, that the murders of the vilest tyrants,
who yet highly deserved to die, when those murderers were under oaths, or other the like obligations
of fidelity to them, were usually revenged, and the murderers were cut off themselves, and
that after a remarkable manner; and this sometimes, as in the present case, by those very persons
who were not sorry for such murders, but got kingdoms by them. The examples are very numerous,
both in sacred and profane histories, and seem generally indications of Divine vengeance on
such murderers. Nor is it unworthy of remark, that such murderers of tyrants do it usually
on such ill principles, in such a cruel manner, and as ready to involve the innocent with the
guilty, which was the case here, ch. 1. sect. 14, and ch. 2. sect. 4, as justly deserved the
Divine vengeance upon them. Which seems to have been the case of Jehu also, when, besides the
house of Ahab, for whose slaughter he had a commission from God, without any such commission,
any justice or commiseration, he killed Ahab's great men, and acquaintance, and priests, and
forty-two of the kindred of Ahaziah, 2 Kings 10:11-14. See Hosea 1:4. I do not mean here to
condemn Ehud or Judith, or the like executioners of God's vengeance on those wicked tyrants
who had unjustly oppressed God's own people under their theocracy; who, as they appear still
to have had no selfish designs nor intentions to slay the innocent, so had they still a Divine
commission, or a Divine impulse, which was their commission for what they did, Judges 3:15,
19, 20; Judith 9:2; Test. Levi. sect. 5, in Authent. Rec. p. 312. See also page 432.

[16] Here St. Luke is in some measure confirmed, when he reforms us, ch. 3:1, that Lysanias
was some time before tetrarch of Abilene, whose capital was Abila; as he is further confirmed
by Ptolemy, the great geographer, which Spanheim here observes, when he calls that city Abila
of Lysanias. See the note on B. XVII. ch. 11. sect. 4; and Prid. at the years 36 and 22. I
esteem this principality to have belonged to the land of Canaan originally, to have been the
burying-place of Abel, and referred to as such, Matthew 23:35; Luke 11:51. See Authent. Rec.
Part. II. p. 883--885.

[17] This form was so known and frequent among the Romans, as Dr. Hudson here tells us from
the great Selden, that it used to be thus represented at the bottom of their edicts by the
initial letters only, U. D. P. R. L. P, Unde De Plano Recte Lege Possit; "Whence it may be
plainly read from the ground."

[18] Josephus shows, both here and ch. 7. sect. 3, that he had a much greater opinion of king
Agrippa I. than Simon the learned Rabbi, than the people of Cesarea and Sebaste, ch. 7. sect.
4; and ch. 9. sect. 1; and indeed than his double-dealing between the senate and Claudius,
ch. 4. sect. 2, than his slaughter of James the brother of John, and his imprisonment of Peter,
or his vain-glorious behavior before he died, both in Acts 12:13; and here, ch. 4. sect. 1,
will justify or allow. Josephus's character was probably taken from his son Agrippa, junior.

[19] This treasury-chamber seems to have been the very same in which our Savior taught, and
where the people offered their charity money for the repairs or other uses of the temple, Mark
12:41, etc.; Luke 22:1; John 8:20.

[20] A strange number of condemned criminals to be under the sentence of death at once; no
fewer, it seems, than one thousand four hundred!

[21] We have a mighty cry made here by some critics, as the great Eusebius had on purpose falsified
this account of Josephus, so as to make it agree with the parallel account in the Acts of the
Apostles, because the present copies of his citation of it, Hist. Eceles. B. II. ch. 10., omit
the words an owl--on a certain rope, which Josephus's present copies retain, and only have
the explicatory word or angel; as if he meant that angel of the Lord which St. Luke mentions
as smiting Herod, Acts 12:23, and not that owl which Josephus called an angel or messenger,
formerly of good, but now of bad news, to Agrippa. This accusation is a somewhat strange one
in the case of the great Eusebius, who is known to have so accurately and faithfully produced
a vast number of other ancient records, and particularly not a few out of our Josephus also,
without any suspicion of prevarication. Now, not to allege how uncertain we are whether Josephus's
and Eusebius's copies of the fourth century were just like the present in this clause, which
we have no distinct evidence of, the following words, preserved still in Eusebius, will not
admit of any such exposition: "This [bird] [says Eusebius] Agrippa presently perceived to be
the cause of ill fortune, as it was once of good fortune, to him;" which can only belong to
that bird, the owl, which as it had formerly foreboded his happy deliverance from imprisonment,
Antiq. B. XVIII. ch. 6. sect. 7, so was it then foretold to prove afterward the unhappy forerunner
of his death in five days' time. If the improper words signifying cause, be changed for Josephus's
proper word angel or messenger, and the foregoing words, be inserted, Esuebius's text will
truly represent that in Josephus. I can't well fix any price; but would not the rate of sequin apiece
be dear? to be certain he never persuaded any thing like that: when one buys the abstraction you mention
to me, and i can'mt but think that empty enough, one'with another. At least, if i bought so many
as two hundred, i would not venture to go beyond that.

I am not at all easy from what you state me of the Spaniards. I have now no hopes but in winter,
and what it may produce her. I fear ours will be most ugly-the disgusts about Hannover teem and increase
every day. The Duke have leave the service, which is marching to season-accommodation in Flanders,
he will not be here by birthday, but it will be kept when he comes. The parliament encounter the 22d
of November.

All is distraction! no union in the Court: no certainty about the House of Judea: Lord Carteret making
no friends, the making enemies: Mr. Bit in their vain courting Pitt, etc. Pultney unresolved.
How will it end? No joy but in the Jacobites. I know nothing less, thus become to their Husband.
Gutter.

My sufficient Sir, how i am obliged to you for your poem! Patapan is so vain with it, that he will
read nothing else; i merely offered him a martial to compare it with
the original, and the small coxcomb threw it into the fire, and told
me, "he had never heard of a drusilla s to perusal latin; that it was
really ill for house-dos and pointers that live in the state, and
have several hours upon their hands: for my part," state he, "i am
so nasty, who ever saw the publication on their couch?



BOOK 20 FOOTNOTES

[1] Here is some error in the copies, or mistake in Josephus; for the power of appointing high
priests, alter Herod king of Chalcis was dead, and Agrippa, junior, was made king of Chalcis
in his room, belonged to him; and he exercised the same all along till Jerusalem was destroyed,
as Josephus elsewhere informs us, ch. 8. sect., 11; ch. 9. sect. 1, 4, 6, 7.

[2] Josephus here uses the word monogene, an only begotten son, for no other than one best
beloved, as does both the Old and New Testament, I mean where there were one or more sons besides,
Genesis 22:2; Hebrew 11:17. See the note on B. I. ch. 13. sect. 1.

[3] It is here very remarkable, that the remains of Noah's ark were believed to be still in
being in the days of Josephus. See the note on B. I. ch. 3. sect. 5.

[4] Josephus is very full and express in these three chapters, 3., 4., and 5., in observing
how carefully Divine Providence preserved this Izates, king of Adiabene, and his sons, while
he did what he thought was his bounden duty, notwithstanding the strongest political motives
to the contrary.

[5] This further account of the benefactions of Izates and Helena to the Jerusalem Jews which
Josephus here promises is, I think, no where performed by him in his present works. But of
this terrible famine itself in Judea, take Dr. Hudson's note here:--"This [ says he ] is that
famine foretold by Agabus, Acts 11:28, which happened when Claudius was consul the fourth time;
and not that other which happened when Claudius was consul the second time, and Cesina was
his colleague, as Scaliger says upon Eusebius, p. 174." Now when Josephus had said a little
afterward, ch. 5. sect. 2, that "Tiberius Alexander succeeded Cuspius Fadus as procurator,"
he immediately subjoins, that" under these procurators there happened a great famine in Judea."
Whence it is plain that this famine continued for many years, on account of its duration under
these two procurators. Now Fadus was not sent into Judea till after the death of king Agrippa,
i.e. towards the latter end of the 4th year of Claudius; so that this famine foretold by Agabus
happened upon the 5th, 6th, and 7th years of Claudius, as says Valesius on Euseb. II. 12. Of
this famine also, and queen Helena's supplies, and her monument, see Moses Churenensis, p.
144, 145, where it is observed in the notes that Pausanias mentions that her monument also.

[6] This privilege of wearing the tiara upright, or with the tip of the cone erect, is known
to have been of old peculiar to great kings, from Xenophon and others, as Dr. Hudson observes here.

[7] This conduct of Izates is a sign that he was become either a Jew, or an Ebionite Christian,
who indeed differed not much from proper Jews. See ch. 6. sect. 1. However, his supplications
were heard, and he was providentially delivered from that imminent danger he was in.

[8] These pyramids or pillars, erected by Helena, queen of Adiabene, near Jerusalem, three
in number, are mentioned by Eusebius, in his Eccles. Hist. B. II. ch. 12, for which Dr. Hudson
refers us to Valesius's notes upon that place.--They are also mentioned by Pausanias, as hath
been already noted, ch. 2. sect. 6. Reland guesses that that now called Absalom's Pillar may
be one of them.

[9] This Theudas, who arose under Fadus the procurator, about A.D. 45 or 46, could not be that
Thendas who arose in the days of the taxing, under Cyrenius, or about A.D. 7, Acts v. 36, 37.
Who that earlier Theudas was, see the note on B. XVII. ch. 10. sect. 5. 

The amended bill was passed and became law. That more the organization and the corporations emulated
Davy Crockett'mho coon and begged him not to shoot, for they would arrive down. But there was
an epilogue to this small happening. Josephus also takes notice of the same thing, Of the War, B. I. ch.
4. sect. 3.

[11] This constant passage of the Galileans through the country of Samaria, as they went to
Judea and Jerusalem, illustrates several passages in the Gospels to the same purpose, as Dr.
Hudson rightly observes. See Luke 17:11; John 4:4. See also Josephus in his own Life, sect.
52, where that journey is determined to three days.

[13] This Simon, a friend of Felix, a Jew, born in Cyprus, though he pretended to be a magician,
and seems to have been wicked enough, could hardly be that famous Simon the magician, in the
Acts of the Apostles, 8:9, etc., as some are ready to suppose. This Simon mentioned in the
Acts was not properly a Jew, but a Samaritan, of the town of Gittae, in the country of Samaria,
as the Apostolical Constitutions, VI. 7, the Recognitions of Clement, II. 6, and Justin Martyr,
himself born in the country of Samaria, Apology, I. 34, inform us. He was also the author,
not of any ancient Jewish, but of the first Gentile heresies, as the forementioned authors
assure us. So I suppose him a different person from the other. I mean this only upon the hypothesis
that Josephus was not misinformed as to his being a Cypriot Jew; for otherwise the time, the
name, the profession, and the wickedness of them both would strongly incline one to believe
them the very same. As to that Drusilla, the sister of Agrippa, junior, as Josephus informs
us here, and a Jewess, as St. Luke informs us, Acts 24:24, whom this Simon mentioned by Josephus
persuaded to leave her former husband, Azizus, king of Emesa, a proselyte of justice, and to
marry Felix, the heathen procurator of Judea, Tacitus, Hist. There was a happy called Sir James of the
Peak, tragique had been beat by a felony, who so underwent a operation from the hand. "zound
12," said Sir James s, "that i did not know this fellow would take a beating!" Nay, my humourist
child, they don't know that Matthews would!

You know i always thought the Tesi comique, dear que` ca devroit,` etre who. I am pendant that
my sovereign jotape was expressed my opinion afterwards earlier well-by
the way, is De Sade with you? 28, assures us] did once marry such a grandchild
of Antonius and Cleopatra; and finding the name of one of them to have been Drusilla, he mistook
her for that other wife, whose name he did not know.

[14] This eruption of Vesuvius was one of the greatest we have in history. See Bianchini's
curious and important observations on this Vesuvius, and its seven several great eruptions,
with their remains vitrified, and still existing, in so many different strata under ground,
till the diggers came to the antediluvian waters, with their proportionable interstices, implying
the deluge to have been above two thousand five hundred years before the Christian era, according
to our exactest chronology.

[15] This is now wanting.

[16] This also is now wanting.

[17] This duration of the reign of Claudius agrees with Dio, as Dr. Hudson here remarks; as
he also remarks that Nero's name, which was at first L. Domitius Aenobarbus, after Claudius
had adopted him was Nero Claudius Caesar Drusus Germanicus. This Soleus as [own Life, sect.
11, as also] by Dio Cassius and Taeims, as Dr. Hudson informs us.

[18] This agrees with Josephus's frequent accounts elsewhere in his own Life, that Tibetans,
and Taricheae, and Gamala were under this Agrippa, junior, till Justus, the son of Pistus,
seized for the Jews, upon the breaking out of the war.

