"Come, Fifine, you have said you will do my wish; let me place this golden band upon your ringer,
and insure you to me for the days to come."

What sensational story she had ever read could equal this? Was ever any thing so purely romantic
or exalted? In that moment all the dreary days of her lonely life seemed blotted out by the
exquisite realization of a new happiness that was stealing over her. But still, there was an
inward struggle in her soul. Thoughts of her father's wrath thrust themselves between her and
her gratification. She lifted up her hands in fear, and said in a hushed voice.

"Bijou, I do indeed love you, but this I dare not do, this is too much. It is all so sudden,
so soon." She recoiled a little as she spoke, and his face darkened ominously.

"Then your words were false!" he said in a cold, cruel voice, "and since you have deceived
me I will ask nothing more. I did not deserve this from you, but we part in time."

He stood proudly up and prepared to leave. There was a struggle in the breast of his victim--that
he could see. In another moment she was close beside him.

"Do not go, Bijou," she said piteously, "after you have taught me to love you as I do, oh!
do not leave Fifine. Tell me what you wish, my Bijou I am ready to do your will."

There was an unpleasant smile of triumph stealing over his handsome mouth. He stretched forth
his hand, and took her trembling one in his.

"You must wear this golden band," he said, "as a token of my earnestness, this will bind us
one to another Let me see it on your dainty hand."

But she shrank again from his grasp. She was frightfully agitated. The low angry rumble of
distant thunder was in her ears, the trees were swaying to and fro, and the leaves were turned
upon their stems--the storm was drawing nearer!

At last she spoke again.

"You cannot mean, that I must become your wife in this strange way, Bijou," her voice was husky
and trembling, "you have not the power."

He smothered a curse, and his brow contracted. "Power? why have I not power as well as another?
are the cold words of a ceremony more binding than the outpourings of a burning heart? Of what
avail are cold formalities to souls that are blended already in devotion and love?"

"Hush Bijou," she interposed, frightened at his vehemence, "such words are a profanation. A
marriage ceremony could not increase our love, but it is indispensable all the same."

He saw she was firm and that the concession must come from him.

"I see you are a slave to public opinion and church authority," he said, "but this need not
be an obstacle between us and our cherished plans. It is growing late now, but if we make good
speed, we could reach the village before, dark, and secure the indispensable"--he laid a peculiar
stress on the word, "though unnecessary services of the curate".

"But my father--the hour," cried the distracted girl.

"They of course are of more consequence than your love and your promise," he answered coldly,
"decide Fifine, for I am impatient. Your home or your love, separation or your promise."

There was a moment of irresolution, but only one, ere the deluded girl yielded everything to
the object of her insane devotion. A satisfied look stole over his face as he drew her arm
within his, and prepared to leave the place.

Fifine knew very little of the village roads. Bijou though not residing in the place more than
three months, led through the thickest and most unfrequented paths. It was growing dark. A
yellowish sort of twilight, a forerunner of the storm, was now giving place to a heavy pall
of black, that was stealing a descent, noiseless and quiet as a snowflake over the earth. The
stillness was doubly oppressive to the unfortunate girl, who leaning on the arm of the handsome
Bijou, passed out through the quiet rustic gate, leaving her home and her father amid such
rich surroundings, to brave the world with a man of whom she knew nothing, save that she loved
him madly, and that his name was Bijou.

Outside the garden gate, at a little distance, stood a small covered buggy, and a horse, the
latter tied to a tree and pawing the ground with irritation. Fifine was a little surprised.

"I provided for the best or worst," Bijou said untying the restless animal, and helping Josephine
to enter the carriage. Then silence fell on them again. They drove very fast, for the darkness
was thickening and Bijou required all his tact, to engineer his horse safely through the path.
Fifine at times would forget the rashness of the step she had just taken, and would fancy herself
back under the old trees that, each moment, were being left farther and farther behind, until
some short words from Bijou, broke the spell of her reverie and hurled her back into the strange
reality.

They drove for a very long time, and at last Fifine could discern little lights twinkling in
the distance, through the dark surroundings.

"How long it is!" she said once, a little wearily.

"Patience," Bijou answered, "we are near enough now," and then silence fell again, which was
unbroken until the horse; steaming and panting, stopped before the door of a small house. The
room into which he led her was low and scantily furnished, and only the dim light of a tallow
candle, helped to make things discernible through the awful blackness that had settled down.
Great leaping shadows danced over the low-ceiling and dingy walls, looking like mocking fiends
to the despairing girl, whose heart was filled with a nameless terror at the consequences of
her own rashness. But Bijou held her hand firmly within his own, and spoke reassuring words
all the while. The clergyman advanced from a corner of the room--a tall spare man whose features
being entirely new to Josephine, were scarcely discernible in the dim, unsteady light of the
candle. He seemed not surprised at their coming, which in itself surprised Fifine very much.
He coolly and systematically proceeded to "tie the marriage knot." His voice was terribly monotonous,
and the words sounded more like a "Dies irae" in a requiem service, than those whose mission
it was to crown the happiness of two young hearts.

They had scarce begun the solemn service, when a great flash of lightning filled the small
close room, followed by a roar of thunder that drowned for a time the sepulchral voice of the
clergyman. Fifine drew nearer to her lover and looked pleadingly into his face. But something
in his eyes chilled and repelled her, she knew not why.

The storm increased, great peals of boisterous thunder rolled over their heads, the rain so
long pent up, came pattering down m fury around them. The ceremony however was progressing,
the binding words were sounding through the dingy little room, the ring was nestling now on
Fifine's trembling finger, the closing sentence was being uttered, when a wild flash of greenish
lightning crossed the little window near them, filling the room with its lurid glare, lending
a most unearthly appearance to the pallid faces of the two men before her. A horrible feeling
came over her, but it did not last long. As the flash disappeared, a gush of wind entered a
broken pane, the candle went blank out before her stupid gaze, and she forgot everything in
that one instant, for a merciful Providence took away her consciousness, and with a shriek
she fell, a motionless heap on the floor.

CHAPTER XXIV.

  My curdling blood, my madd'ning brain,
  In silent anguish I sustain
  And still thy heart, without partaking
  One pang, exults--while mine is breaking
                                      --Byron.

She turned on her side and woke, at least she opened her eyes in a wide stare, but could see
nothing. All was black, opaque darkness around her. She raised herself on her elbow, her back
ached, her head ached, every joint was stiffened. What could it mean? Had she fallen out of
bed, she wondered? She tried to move but could not. She called "Anna! Papa!" but her voice
sent back a mocking echo from the black stillness, no maid, no parent, hearkened to her cry.
She looked all around. A colorless emptiness surrounded her. She stretched out her feeble hand,
but nothing answered to her eager search. Was she alone in a creation from which the sun had
been cancelled? Where was her memory? What had she done last? She tried to think. She had been
painting--oh yes! but it grew so dark she had to give it up. She must have fallen asleep after
it, she began to think consolingly, but no! she had gone into her own little room and put on
her daintiest apparel; she remembered pinning the bunch of camellias in her bonnet. But even
this was no clue, she forgot after that. Was she in the open air or indoors? She could feel
no breath or breeze, nor was there anything within reach to reassure her. She was too puzzled
just now to feel much frightened. She only wanted to think. Instinctively she raised her hand
to her head, and then--memory came back with one full swoop as she felt the heavy golden band
on her finger. A painful rehearsal of all she had done passed before her eyes, and when she
remembered the fatal flash of lightning and the darkness that followed, she fell shrieking
back on the hard floor. She knew now that she was alone in the dark dingy little house, that
had terrified her so much at first. She raised herself again, tremblingly, and supported her
reclining form on her hand, her arm resting on the cold boards. "But I am not alone," she said
reassuringly; "Bijou is here," then raising her voice a little, she called "Bijou! Bijou!"
but the silent chamber only sent back a dismal echo of her own voice. Then louder still she
cried "Bijou! Bijou! Bijou!" her voice gathering courage as the maddening truth forced itself
on her bewildered brain. Still no answer. She grew terrified at having broken the awful stillness.
She strained her eyes to peer through the cruel darkness that enveloped her. No use--it was
only looking through one blackness into another. She covered her weeping face with her little
trembling hands, moaning and wailing as she rocked herself to and fro on the hard floor. Poor
girl! She was only one of the million victims of that folly which rules universal girl-hood
to-day. She had not been taught the lesson of life as every girl should know it. Like others
of her age, all over the wide world, here in our own flourishing city as well, she had been
given the elements of a valuable knowledge to play with, and fool with, and yawn over to her
heart's content. This was all.

According to popular ideas, there are so many other things to be instilled into young girl's
heads of primary importance, that education takes its own course, and enthusiastic mothers
stay up half the night curling the flaxen hair, or paring the promising eyelashes of their
pretty babies, but what becomes of the little heart that is growing wild for want of a tender
solicitous hand to cultivate its helpless soil? What is the use? A handful of caramels goes
a far longer way towards calming a fit of juvenile temper than a word of effective remonstrance,
that will only spoil the pretty face, on mama's reception day too, or just before some liliputian
tea-party. True it is that it is far more universal a practice than in former years to send
one's children to school. But where does the advantage come in? The embryo woman is packed
off to the most stylish boarding-school, she must be allowed a thousand deviations from the
rules, on account of weak nerves or some equally imaginary disorder. She picks up in her hours
of good humor a smattering of French and German, music or elocution, painting and fancy-work,
but these painful superficialities only ruin the girl, who, had she been left without those
oppressive appendages, would be an honest whole- hearted woman. Instead of this, our drawing-rooms
are crowded with affected, insipid girls, who, being girls, are fair enough to view, but whose
minds and hearts are prudently closed to inspection. These are the perfections of lollipop
misses who left home for boarding-school, five, six or eight years ago, and come back conceited
ninnies, who imagine every good-looking man must be appropriated, whether he will or not, as
their slavish adorer.

These are no untrue assertions. Ask anyone of sound, natural judgment, how many sensible, edifying,
worthy women are found at once in a ball-room or concert-room, or any other rendezvous of fashionable
society. The answer, if not convincing, would at least be surprising. And yet, every year,
numbers of these golden-haired, blue eyed girls leave the altar on the arm of some well-to-do
young fellow, his, until death, and no one in the admiring throng of spectators doubts that
the sequel of this bright day's doings will be one of endless felicity. But they are deceived.
It is the wife's lack of sympathy in the hour of distress, her incapacity to solace the troubled
mind and heart of the man who has loved her, that drives the young husband from his home, to
seek distraction in the bottomless wine-cup. It is a repulsive picture, but a true one, and
those who have not seen it yet for themselves will meet the stern reality some day, perhaps,
before very long.

These deviatory details may enable the readers to understand more fully, and to condemn less
readily the actions of Josephine de Maistre. She had placed unbounded confidence in the man
who had come to her with his well-learned tales of love. She was young, susceptible and inexperienced,
and had not thought that night should close in upon her bright, beautiful, cloudless day. But
it was different now. The impulsive, generous, confiding nature was slowly being moulded by
the hand of a bitter experience, into a skeptical mistrust of humanity, dreadful to see in
a woman. All the careless years of her girlhood passed in mockery before her eyes to-night,
until her poor heart was nigh bursting with pent-up sorrow and grief. She dropped her cold
clammy hands into her lap and sat upright in the darkness. How long had she been here? Was
it an hour, a day, or a week? How long must she remain here now? She felt in her breast for
her pocket-book, and a look of undying scorn stole into her eyes when she found it was gone.
She was penniless, alone, helpless; would this darkness ever dissipate. If she could only die,
or go mad, or sleep again, she thought, as she threw herself passionately on the floor moaning
and sobbing most piteously. Suddenly she sprang up again, maddened by pain, suspense and fear.
Holding out her trembling arms in the darkness, she screamed despairingly, appealingly, "Bijou,
my lover, my traitor, where are you? Come back and free me from this awful terror, rescue me,
or kill me, anything--oh anything but this frightful solitude."

Still no sound answered her despairing accents as she dashed herself recklessly back on the
floor, weeping and sobbing afresh. Then there was a moment or two of heavy silence, for it
is in silence the heart breaks. After that the girl sat up again, with her feet tucked under
her skirts. She brushed back her matted hair from her swollen face and clasping her hands over
her knees, she filled the small dark room with a sharp ringing laugh. It was something horrible
to hear--a voice once so soft and plaintive, now grating out shrill accents in a hard mocking tone.

"Ha, ha, ha," she sneered, "the brave monsieur Bijou, how he played with la folle Fifine. Was
he not too sure perhaps? Fifine can love, but oh! more delicious, Fifine can hate! yes hate!!
hate!!!" she repeated with a malicious pleasure, emphasizing the word, "and she can curse le
beau Bijou."

"Oh!" she cried joining her hands in an iron grip, "may sickness and poverty and misfortune
waylay him! may he love one who will break his heart! may this life be to him a temporary hell,
to prepare for the eternal one in the next! Ha, ha, that is good Fifine, pourtant, le beau
Bijou would be vexed to hear that, he would be shocked. We'll tell a secret to this brave young
man. The world is big, Bijou, and Fifine is only a small weak child, but she loves to hate,
and she loves revenge. She will walk till her feet are blistered, and her body worn and tired,
but she will find Bijou, she owes him a little debt and she must pay it. She gives the devil
his due, ha, ha, ha," and the wild unearthly laugh resounded once more through the dismal darkened
chamber. In this horrible strain she continued chattering to herself and menacing Bijou, until
suddenly she stopped short and bent over in a listening attitude. A sound had caught her ear.
Something had broken the frightful silence besides her rambling maniacal chatter. Some other
animate thing was within her hearing. She was breathless for many moments as she glared, eyes
and mouth open, in the direction from which the sound had proceeded. She listened devouringly
and could now distinctly hear a slow regular breathing, somewhere near, but which way she could
not tell. Her flesh crept with a new fear. She dreaded being alone, and yet she preferred solitude
to the knowledge that some one was coming to her in the darkness. She crawled on her knees
a few paces forward, but as the sound decreased she crept silently back in the opposite direction.
Still she could not hear more distinctly.

She therefore made a great stride towards another point, and now she could hear very plainly
the regular breaths coming and going as of one in deep sleep. This suspense was worse than
any. She laid herself out on the floor, rested her elbows on the boards and buried her chin
in her palms. Wild thoughts of hatred and revenge chased one another through her unsteady mind,
but still she could discern nothing but this tranquil respiration. She was weakening now. It
must have been three hours from the time she awoke first, and yet there was no sign of light
or life, nothing but this strange breathing, wherever it was. She was growing drowsy and threw
herself back on the floor, with one fair white arm thrown over her head. She had advanced considerably
to the left of the room, though the impenetrable darkness did not allow her to know it. Her
breast heaved in great irregular sighs, and her long lashes drooped wearily over her tired
eyes. Another moment and sleep would have come in its precious mercy to solace the poor afflicted
soul, the wild staring eyes had been subdued into drowsiness, and the angel of balm was coaxing
the tired limbs into repose, when a loud sigh broke upon the sleep- inducing silence, and disturbed
the unfortunate Fifine. She opened her eyes suddenly again and waited for a repetition. This
time she heard several queer sounds, like scratching and eating. Overcome at last by suspense,
she started up, but in doing so, she knocked her head violently against some object that stood
close by her. In her madness she never heeded the pain, but stretched out her hands for something
to lean against, when fortunately she laid one of them on a stumpy candlestick, in the saucer
of which she found a couple of greasy matches. A cry of joy escaped her as she struck a light,
as quickly as her nervous fingers and glad excitement allowed her. At least now the horrible
spell of darkness and uncertainty was broken. The candle hardly took at first, but as she watched
it eagerly, with both hands around the timid spark, it spluttered and flared up into a tall
lanky flame that made her surroundings look visible, if not bright.

It was the same little room to which Bijou had brought her for her wedding, she did not know
how long ago. Now that she looked at it in a calm, keen scrutiny, she noticed that these stray
pieces of homely, furniture had been thrown around, merely to give the place the appearance
of being inhabited. No one had lived there for a long time, anyone could see. Great tangled
cobwebs hung all over the wall and celling, and one corner of the miserable apartment was a
perfect pool, from rain that had dropped through the defective roof. When Fifine had taken
in these surroundings in her quick, searching glance, she tried to discern the source of the
noises she had heard. This was an easy matter. Very near to where she stood, was a long dingy
door that closed with a latch, and from behind this Fifine heard the sounds still issuing.
Prepared for the worst, she got down on her knees and holding the candle a little way above
her head, she raised the latch and pushed the door violently in. The next instant a great shaggy
dog was bounding around her, lashing his paws on the floor and attempting to lick her hands
and face. She smiled a little first when she remembered her fear, but her next feeling was
one of joy, at the new and strange companionship, which might yet prove of service to her.
Laying the candle down upon the floor, she drew the animal towards her and began to examine
him. He was a large, well-built, glossy-haired fellow, with earnest eyes and a long, loose
tongue, that hung a great way out of his mouth. Around his shaggy neck was a silver collar,
on which was engraved "Sailor," and the two large initials, "N.B.," and after further scrutiny,
she deciphered on the margin of the band, "I. Kennedy, Engraver, St. Paul St, Montreal." She
threw her arms wildly about the animal and hugged him affectionately. At least she had a clue.
In her new joy she quite forgone very precaution she had planned before, but now she was brought
back from her ecstasy by remarking that her candle was almost burnt out. She had no other,
and she must be content to sit there and await day break, or escape while there was yet a spark
of light. She seized this last hope, for taking the dog by the collar, she dragged him towards
the door of exit, and as she tried to undo the fastenings, she talked wildly to herself and
to him. The door was fastened on the outside, proof positive, that she had been knowingly and
heartlessly bound within those wretched walls. This excited all her latent hatred again, and
with the mad strength of defiance and revenge, she tried to tear the fastenings apart with
her naked fingers. She toiled bravely and fast. The light of the candle was leaping up and
down, threatening to expire. Only once or twice did she pause to fling back the dishevelled
hair that blinded her eyes, but at last she was rewarded, for with one supreme effort she succeeded
in dragging in the door, and opening for herself a passage into the outside world.

"Not, bad Fifine," she laughed, as the night air swept in on her feverish head, "we'll get
le beau Bijou yet. He'll say Fifine is mad, but we'll see--Fifine is not mad--she hates him
though, and she will kill him, ha! ha!"

She walked about chattering wildly, holding Sailor by his collar, and saying senseless things
to him every now and then. At last, when she had gone a long way without being able to discern
a path, she sank down to rest near a clump of trees. Twining her arms round Sailor's shaggy
neck, she laid her head on his warm body and soon fell into a heavy dreamless slumber.

CHAPTER XXV.

