I could see that this was not the old puzzlement, but something new and heavy, so we held our
peace. Long was he before he moved or spoke, and when he did so it was wearily.

"Well knew I that somewhat was to happen to me in this town, even as I told you, brother, when
we first passed its gates. And now it seems to be coming to pass. For this is what is on me,
as it seems to me-- either that I must see the light of day no more, or must live to be a scorn
and sorrow to one for whom it were meet that a man should die."

"Surely the black dream is on you, my brother! Neither of these things can be for you!" I cried.

"Would that it were the dream, for that is not all of sorrow, and that also is of things so
long past that they are forgotten. I can bear that, for your voice always drives it away. But
now the hand of Alsi the king is on me for some ill of his own--"

"Stay," said Withelm. "Let us go out and speak, if that name is to be heard. It were safer."

"Less safe, brother," answered Havelok. "At once we should be kept apart. Listen, and I will
tell you all, and then say your say."

Then he told us, word for word, all that had just passed between him and the king. And as we
listened, it grew on us that here was no wrong to the princess, but rather the beginning of
honour. I could see the downfall that was in store for Alsi, and I thought also that I saw
hope for the winning back of the Danish kingdom, with an East Anglian host to back us. And
this also saw Withelm, and his eyes sparkled. But Havelok knew not yet all that had grown so
plain to us.

He ended, and we said nothing for a moment.

"Well?" he said, not looking up, but with eyes that sought the floor, as if ashamed.

"By Odin," said I, speaking the thought that was uppermost, "here will be a downfall for Alsi!"

"Ay, you are right, brother. I will not wed her."

But that was by no means what I meant, as may be known; and now Withelm held up a warning hand
to me, and I knew that his advice was always best.

"If the maiden is unwilling, wed her not," he said. "If she is willing, even as the king said,
that is another matter. We have no reason to doubt his word as yet."

"You saw not his face as he spoke. And then, how should the princess think of me?"

"Who knows? Even Odin owned that the minds of maids were hard to fathom. But one may find a
reason or two. Maybe that oath has somewhat to do with it. A good daughter will go far to carry
out her father's will, and, in the plain sense thereof, she will certainly do it thus. Then
it is likely that she knows that you are no churl, but the son of Grim, though we have fallen
on hard times for a while. I have heard say that it is the custom here that a man who has crossed
the seas in his own ship so many times is a thane by right of that hardihood. Thane's son,
therefore, might we call you. Then there is the jealousy of every other thane, if she chooses
an East Anglian. Then she needs one who shall be mighty to lead her forces. Even the greatest
thane will be content to follow a man who is a warrior of warriors. Ragnar can have told her
what you are in that way. Faith, brother, there are reasons enough."

Havelok laughed a short laugh at all this, and he grew brighter. There was sense in Withelm's
words, if they would not bear looking deeply into.

Then I said, adding to these words, "Moreover, Alsi could stop the whole foolishness of his
niece if he did not think it a fitting match in some way."

"So he could," answered Havelok. "But yet--I tell you that there was naught but evil in his
face. Why did he try to force me?"

Then he went back to the thing that weighed mostly on his noble heart-- the thought that he
was unworthy altogether.

"I fear that the princess does but think of me because she must. It is in my mind that Alsi
may have threatened her also until she has consented. How shall I know this?"

"Most easily, as she speaks with you," answered Withelm. "Tomorrow will tell you that. And
then, if you find things thus, what shall prevent your flying?"

"Brother Radbard and the other housecarls," said Havelok grimly.

"Not if you ask the princess to help you out of her own way by pretending to be most willing.
If Alsi thinks you a gladsome couple, there is no difficulty. You walk out of the palace as
a master there. Then you fly to Ragnar. That is all."

Now that was such an easy way out of the whole coil that we planned it out. And yet it seemed
to me that it was a pity that Havelok knew not more of what seemed to us so sure now. So, seeing
that things were fairly straightened by this last thought, I got up and said that I must be
going, making a sign to Withelm to come also; and, with a few more words, we went out. I saw
Havelok set himself to a mighty task of water drawing as I looked back.

"Now," said I, "here is a strange affair with a vengeance. Neither head nor tail can I make
of it. But if all we think is right, this is the marriage for the son of Gunnar."

"Son of Gunnar, or son of Grim," said Withelm, "princess or not, happy is the maiden who gains
Havelok for a husband. Maybe her woman's wit has told her so. She will have many suitors whom
she knows to be seeking her throne only, and to him she gives it as a gift unsought."

"That is all beyond me," I said; "but he would fill a throne well. But his own modesty in the
matter of his worthiness is likely to stand in the way. Why should we not tell him all that
we know? Then he will feel that he is doing no wrong."

"Because we are not sure, and because it is not for us to choose the time. I have sent for
Arngeir this morning, as we said would be well last night. If the princess is unwilling, there
are many things that may be said; and if not, there must be many days before the wedding; and,
ere the day, Havelok may feel that he is her equal in birth at least, if we are not wrong.
But since I have waited here, Mord has told me the dream that has troubled the princess, that
I may tell the priest, so that he can think it over. She has dreamed that she is to wed a man
who shall be king both in Denmark and England, and she saw the man, moreover. Strangely like
Havelok's dream is that. Now what else made her turn faint but that this vision was like Havelok?
And does not that make it possible that she wishes to wed him? Therefore I am going to tell
the priest the story of Havelok, so far as I know it."

"Well thought of. Tell him this also, for now I may surely tell you what you have not yet heard
thereof."

So I told him how Grim and I had taken Havelok from Hodulf, and then he was the more certain
that we had saved the son of our king.

Now we thought that we had got to the bottom of the whole matter of the wedding. Of course
the dream had all to do with the fainting, but nothing to do with the supposed wish. But we
did not know that.

"Speak not of Gunnar by name, however," I said; "he was a terror to Christian folk. The priest
is likely to hinder the marriage with all his might else."

Withelm flushed as he had when he first spoke of the priest to me.

"I think not, brother; for he knows Havelok well, and loves him."

"So," said I shortly, "he hopes to make him a Christian, doubtless."

"I think that he will do so, if he has a Christian wife to help."

"That would not suit Havelok," I said, laughing.

"Nay, but such a mind as his it seems to suit well already, though he has not heard much."

"Why, then," said I, wondering, "if it suits our best and bravest, it must be a wondrous faith.
It seems strange, however; but I know naught of it. What is good for him and you, my brother,
is sure to be best."

"I feared that you would be angry."

"Nay, but with you and Havelok? How should that be? Why, if you two said that we must turn
Christian, I should hold it right; so would Raven. I suppose that I go to the Ve [11] because
you do."

Now I troubled no more about the matter, being nothing but a sea dog who could use a weapon.
And now I said that I was going to Eglaf to say that I might have to leave him at any time
for home, in case we had to fly with Havelok. So Withelm went his way to the old priest with
a light heart, and I to the captain.

"Well," said Eglaf, "this is about what I expected when your brother came. Good it has been
to have you here; and I think that I shall see you as a housecarl for good yet. When do you go?"

"The first time that I do not turn up on guard I am gone, not till then."

"Come and drink a farewell cup first."

"I shall be in a great hurry if I do not do that," I answered, laughing.

But it was my thought that maybe when once my back was turned on the town, I should not have
time to think of going near King Alsi's guard.

Then I went to find Ragnar the earl, for we thought it well that he should know what was on
hand. But when I came to the house of the thane with whom he was quartered, they told me that
he had gone hastily with all his men, for word had come of some rising in his land that must
be seen to at once. That was bad; and as one must find a reason for everything, I thought that
the going of Griffin had much to do with the outbreak. There I was wrong, as I found later.
But then, too, I knew that the craft of Alsi was at work in this message. He had his own reasons
for wishing the earl out of the way.

    CHAPTER XVI. A STRANGEST WEDDING.

Long spoke Withelm and the priest David together, until it was time for them to seek the palace;
and when they came there, they spoke to Mord also. Then David thought it was well to say naught
to Havelok until more was learned from Goldberga herself, for he would soon see how things
stood with her. Then he would see Withelm again, and they would plan together for the best.
So Withelm waited for the return of the priest, whom Mord took to his mistress. Alsi and his
men were supping in the hall, but Goldberga was waiting in her own chamber.

Now the princess thought that, after her message to the king, she would hear no more of the
kitchen knave, and so was happier. But all the while she pondered over her dream the thought
of Havelok must needs come into it, and that was troublesome. Nevertheless, it was not to be
helped, seeing that there was no doubt at all that he and the man of the vision were like to
each other as ever were twins. Wherefore if the thought of one must be pleasant so at last
must be that of the other. And then came the nurse with tales of what Berthun thought of this
man of his--how that he was surely a wandering prince, with a vow of service on him, like Gareth
of the Round Table in the days of Arthur.

So presently it seemed to the princess that the churl was gone, as it were, and in his place
was a wandering atheling, at least, who was not a terror at all. Then at length the slow time
wore away until Mord came with David the priest.

No priestly garb had the old man on, for that had made his danger certain; but though he was
clad in a thrall's rough dress, he was not to be mistaken for aught but a most reverend man.

"Peace be with you, my daughter," he said; "it is good to look on the child of Orwenna, the
queen whom we loved."

Then the chamberlain left those two alone, and at once Goldberga told the priest why she had
asked him to run the risk of coming to her, for there is no doubt that he was in peril, though
not from Alsi himself.

At first she asked him many things about her mother, and learned much of her goodness to the
poor folk, and of their love to her; and presently, when she grew more sure of the kindness
and seeming wisdom of the priest, she told him all her dream, adding no thoughts of her own,
as she mistrusted them.

Then said David, "There seems naught but good in this, and it is not hard to unravel. I think
that all shall come to pass even as it was told you."

"I feared the heathen ways of the place, and thought that it might be some snare of the old
gods," said Goldberga.

But David told her that they could have no power on her, and asked her if the king knew of
the vision, that being one thing of which he was not sure; and when he found that he did not,
the whole affair seemed more strange than before.

But now the princess asked him, "Plain were the words that I heard, hut what meant the light
as of a sunbeam that came from the mouth of the man of the vision?"

"That surely means that in word and in heart and in all else the man shall be kingly altogether,
so that there shall be no mistaking the same; and it may also mean that you shall know the
man at once when you see him."

At that Goldberga grew pale and red by turns, so that David, quick to read the thoughts of
those who came to him for help, asked if she had seen anyone who she thought must be meant,
not at all knowing that she must needs say that this was Curan.

Not at all willingly did she tell him this; but she did so, adding at last that Alsi had threatened
to wed her to this man.

Now it was plain to David that all was pulling the same way, for surely Alsi wrought, unknowing,
for the fulfilling of the dream; and all seemed to prove that Havelok was the son of the Danish
king, and that he would win back his kingdom. Then he found out that the princess had no knowledge
that the king had spoken to Havelok, but it did not seem to be needful that he should tell
her that he had done so. That would be told by Alsi himself if he meant, as seemed certain,
to carry out his threat. So he thought awhile, and at last he saw what he might do without
saying anything to bend the choice of the princess in any way.

"It will soon be plain in what way the dream shall be fulfilled," he said; "and this is certain,
that you shall be wedded to none but the right man, else had it not been sent. Have no fear,
therefore, even as it was bidden you."

Then the princess said that the only thing which troubled her was the fear lest Alsi should
yet force her to wed this one who was so like him she had seen in her dream.

"That," said the priest, "is doubtless the most strange part of the whole matter, yet I think
that even thus there need be no fear. I will tell you now that I know this one who is called
Curan well, and I, and all who know him, love him. Truly he is not a Christian, but he is no
hater of the faith, and that is much in these days. Nor is he a churl, but rather one of the
most noble of men. It is certain that, whatever Alsi might wish, he would not wed you against
your will. He has but to know your thoughts in order to help you in any way. But I must also
tell you this, that he is a Dane, who fled from his land when he was a child; and it is thought
that he is the son of the Danish king, who was slain at the time when Mord, your servant, fled
also. He came to England in the same ship as did Mord, who can tell you more of him. It is
certain that there is a secret about his birth, and the one who knows that secret is not far
off. If need is, we can learn it, for there was a set time for its telling, and maybe this
is it. Now, if it is true that he is the son of the Danish king, it does seem as if your dream
might be bidding you to have no fear of what seems doubtful in the matter, though I cannot
tell, and do not like to say so for certain. His name is not Curan, but Havelok."

Then Goldberga said, "I have heard of that flight and of the wreck from Mord often. He was
wont to tell me of the child, and of the lady who was drowned, and he said that he thought
him the king's son."

After that she was greatly cheered, for the worst of the trouble seemed to be over and gone.
It was in her mind now that Alsi knew who Havelok was, and that he tried her, for she was not
one to think ill of any.

So she let the priest go, with many thanks, saying, "Now I know that whatever happens is the
will of Heaven, and must be for the best. I am ready for whatever shall befall."

Now I do not know what had seemed good to Alsi, for he had changed his mind concerning David's
visit to Goldberga, and had suddenly given orders that if he came he was to be put in ward
at once. So Mord met the old man as he left the chamber, and told him that he must fly; and
after that Withelm took him away in the dusk, for none hindered his going, and went to the
widow's with him, hearing all that had been said; and that which they thought was even as Goldberga
had said, that all must needs be for the best. In a day or two all would he plain, for Arngeir
would have come. So Withelm sent forth the old man to his own place with a good store of food,
going with him for some miles, and promising him help for coming days until the dearth was ended.

Now into the palace none might come after the feast was set; and all this time I was on guard,
for there were double posts round the place, by reason of Alsi's fear of the attackers of the
princess, as was said. So it happened that neither of us saw Havelok until next morning; and
now I have to tell how we saw him, and what happened with the first sunlight, when men were
thinking of breaking their fast.

We of the housecarls took that first meal of the day in the great hall --so many of us, that
is, who were not on duty; and when we had nigh finished, Alsi would come in and seat himself
on the high place, where Eglaf and half a dozen other thanes sat also at times when there was
no special state to be kept.

I was early this morning, having just taken my spell of watching at the gate, and being, therefore,
free for the rest of the day, and I was hungry with the sweet air of the July weather and the
freshness that comes with sunrise. So I was not altogether pleased to see that there was seemingly
some new affair of state on hand, while the breakfast was not yet set out by reason of preparations
that were going on where the king's chair was wont to stand. There was Berthun, looking puzzled
and by no means pleased, and his men were busy setting out benches on the high place, of a
sort that were not those that were wont to be there, in three sides of a square, the open side
facing the hall. One bench made each side, and all three were carved from back rail to clawed
feet wondrously. Old they seemed also. Then, too, instead of the sweet sedges that strewed
the high place, men had spread a cloth of bright hues underfoot there, and the sedges had been
swept among the rushes of the lower places. All this was so strange that I went forward, and
when I had a chance I asked the steward what was on hand.

"If you know not, master housecarl, no more do I. 'Justice to be done,' says the king, and
so I suppose that you have some notable prisoner in ward--maybe the leader of those villains
who scared our fair princess."

"But we had taken no man, and I will say that we had wondered that we had not been sent out
to hunt those people, instead of biding to see if they came to trouble us here."

"Why, then," said Berthun, "some thane must be bringing a captive shortly. But why Alsi orders
these benches, it passes me to make out. They are those that have been used for the weddings
of his kin since the days of Hengist. Last time was when Orwenna, his sister, wedded Ethelwald
of Norfolk. Maybe he thinks that they need airing."

He laughed and went on directing his men; but knowing what I knew, I wondered what it all might
mean, for there was one wedding that I could not help thinking of.

Presently the hall began to fill as men came in, and every one had somewhat to say, and all
marvelled at this that was going on. Then Berthun came and beckoned to me, for I must fetch
Eglaf the captain at once, as the king had need of him, in haste. Then Eglaf hurried to the
hall; and after a word or two with Alsi, the horns were blown outside the hall door to call
every man of the guard to the place. And when they came, we were all set round the wall as
if guarding all that were in it. But there were none but the folk of the palace to guard, and
they were wondering as were we; and when that was done, and the click and rattle of arms as
we moved to our places was ended, there was a silence on all --the silence of men who wait
for somewhat to happen.

Now Berthun went to the door on the high place, as he was wont when all was ready for the king's
presence, and the hush deepened, none knowing what they expected to see.

Forth came Berthun backward, as was the custom, and he turned aside to let the king pass him.
His face was red and angry, as I thought, but amazed also. I was standing next to Eglaf, and
he was at the foot of the dais, at the end of his line of men, so that I could see all plainly.

Then came Alsi, leading the princess, and after Goldberga came her nurse. No other ladies were
with her; and now I noticed that there was not one thane on the high place, which was strange,
and the first time that such a thing had been since I came here. I looked down the hall, and
none were present. Now I looked at Alsi; and on his pale face was a smile that might have been
as of one who will be glad, though he does not feel so. But the eyes of the princess were bright
with tears, and hardly did she look from the floor. Hers was a face to make one sad to see
at that time, wondrously beautiful as it was.

Alsi led her by the hand, and set her on the bench that was to his left, and signed to the
nurse to sit beside her, which the old lady did, bridling and looking with scorn at the king
as she took her place. There she sought the hand of the princess, and held it tightly, as in
comforting wise. Very rich garments had the nurse, but Goldberga was dressed in some plain
robe of white that shone when the light caught it. Mostly I do not see these things, but now
I wished that she always wore that same.

As for Alsi, he had on his finest gear, even as at the great feast of the Witan--crimson cloak,
fur-lined, and dark-green hose, gold-gartered across, and white and gold tunic. He had a little
crown on also, and that was the only thing kingly about him, to my mind.

Now he cast one look at Goldberga, which made her shrink into herself, as it were, and turned
with a smile to us all.

"Friends," he said, "this is short notice for a wedding, but all men know that 'Happy is the
wooing that is not long a-doing,' so no more need be said of that. All men know also that when
good Ethelwald died he made me swear to him that I would wed his daughter to the mightiest
and goodliest and fairest man that was in the land. I have ever been mindful of that oath,
and now it seems that the time for keeping it has come. Whether the man whom my niece will
wed is all that the oath requires, you shall judge; and if he is such a one, I must not stand
in the way. I do not myself know that I have ever seen one who is so fully set forth in words
as is this bridegroom in those of the oath."

Now I heard one whisper near me, "Whom has Goldberga chosen?"

And that was what Alsi would have liked to hear, for his speech seemed to say that thus it
was, and maybe that he did not altogether like the choice.

But now Alsi said to Berthun, "Bring in the bridegroom."

"Whom shall I bring, lord?" the steward asked in blank wonder, and Alsi whispered his answer.

At that Berthun's hands flew up, and his mouth opened, and he did not stir.

"Go, fool," said Alsi, and I thought that he would have stamped his foot.

Now I knew who was meant in a moment, and even as the steward took his first step from off
the dais to go down the hail to his own entrance, I said to Eglaf, "Here is an end to my service
with you. My time is up."

"Why, what is amiss?"

"The bridegroom is my brother--that is all; and I must be free to serve him as I may."

"Well, if that is so, you are in luck. But I do not think that either of Grim's sons can be
the man. Big enough are you, certainly, but goodly? Nay, but that red head of yours spoils you."

I daresay that he would have said more about Raven and Withelm, for a talk was going round;
but a hush came suddenly, and then a strange murmur of stifled wonder, for Havelok came into
the hall after Berthun, and all eyes were turned to him.

Now I saw my brother smile as he came, seeing someone whom he liked first of all; and then
he looked up the hall, and at once his face became ashy pale, for he saw what was to be done.
Yet he went on firmly, looking neither to right nor left, until he came to the high place.
There he caught my eye, and I made a little sign to him to show that I knew his trouble.

They came to the step, and Berthun stood aside to let Havelok pass, and then Alsi held out
his hand to raise my brother to the high place. But Havelok seemed not to see that, stepping
up by himself as the king bade him come. Then the women who were in the hall spoke to one another
in a murmur that seemed of praise; but whiter and more white grew the princess, so that I feared
that she would faint. But she did not; and presently there seemed to come into her eyes some
brave resolve, and she was herself again, looking from Alsi to Havelok, and again at Alsi.

Now, too, the king looked at him up and down, as one who measures his man before a fight. And
when he met Havelok's eyes he grew red, and turned away to the folk below him.

"So, friends," he cried, "what say you? Am I true to the words of my oath in allowing this
marriage?"

There was not one there who did not know Havelok, whom they called Curan; and though all thought
these doings strange, there was a hum of assent, for the oath said naught of the station in
life of the bridegroom. Good King Ethelwald had been too trustful.

"That is well," said Alsi, with a grave face. "All here will bear witness that this was not
done without counsel taken. Now, let the bridegroom sit in his place here to my right."

He waved his hand, and Havelok sat down on the bench that faced Goldberga; and now he looked
long at her with a look that seemed to be questioning. Alsi was going to his seat in the cross
bench, where the parents of the couple are wont to sit at a wedding while the vows are made,
but he seemed to bethink himself. It is my belief that he said what he did in order to shame
both Havelok and Goldberga.

"Why, it is not seemly that the bridegroom should sit alone without one to be by him. Where
are your friends, Curan?"

At that Alsi met with more than he bargained for. At once Berthun came forward, and forth came
I, and without a word we sat one on each side of him. There were others who would have come
also, for I saw even Eglaf take a step towards the high place, had we not done so.

Alsi's face became black at that, for here was not the friendless churl he was scoffing at.
But he tried to smile, as if pleased.

"Why, this is well," he said. "Good it is to see a master helping his man, and a soldier ready
to back a comrade of a sort. Now we have witnesses. Let us go on with the wedding."

Now the golden loving cup that was used at the feasts had been filled and set at a little side
table that stood there, and it was to be the bride cup that should be drunk between the twain
when all was settled. So Alsi took this cup and held it, while he sat in the place of the father
of the bride. Now, I knew nothing of what should he done, but Berthun did so, and well he took
my brother's part, having undertaken for him thus.

