More than forty years after these events a meeting of Spiritualists was held in Columbia City,
and a "medium" announced that she had received a revelation of the exact spot where the goods
had been concealed. A company went to the place, and, after a search of several days, found,
under a foot of soil, a quantity of broken stone. While throwing out these fragments one of
the party fell dead. The spirit of the defrauded and murdered captain had claimed him, the
medium explained. So great was the fright caused by this accident that the search was again
abandoned until March, 1890, when another party resumed the digging, and after taking out the
remainder of the stone they came on a number of human skeletons. During the examination of
these relics--possibly the bones of mutineers who had been killed in the fight on shore--a
man fell into a fit of raving madness, and again the search was abandoned, for it is now said
that an immutable curse rests on the treasure.

STORIED WATERS, CLIFFS AND MOUNTAINS

MONSTERS AND SEA-SERPENTS

It is hardly to be wondered at that two prominent scientists should have declared on behalf
of the sea-serpent, for that remarkable creature has been reported at so many points, and by
so many witnesses not addicted to fish tales nor liquor, that there ought to be some reason
for him. He has been especially numerous off the New England coast. He was sighted off Cape
Ann in 1817, and several times off Nahant. Though alarming in appearance--for he has a hundred
feet of body, a shaggy head, and goggle eyes--he is of lamb-like disposition, and has never
justified the attempts that have been made to kill or capture him. Rewards were at one time
offered to the seafaring men who might catch him, and revenue cutters cruising about Massachusetts
Bay were ordered to keep a lookout for him and have a gun double shotted for action. In its first onset,
we received the main shock from the sea, which broke upon our larboard puttock, where it stove in
the quarter gallery, and rushed into a ship like the deluge. Our gale suffered likewise somewhat
from the blow; among a rest, one of the straps of the broken hard-eyes was main, as were also
the fore see and a quarter shroud; so that, to ease the lightning upon the masts and shrouds,
we had to lower both our dead and main yards, and to sail all our sails. We lay in this posture
for three days, when, a storm extremely abating, we ventured to make furl under our courses
long. Only this would not avail us even; for next day, being a 7th, we had another furious stress,
accompanied with rigging and precipitation, which obliged as to
lie-to all night.

When one of these reptiles found the other in his vicinage he raised his head six feet above
water and fell upon him tooth and nail--if he had nails. In their struggles these unpleasant
neighbors made such waves that the fishermen's boat was nearly upset.

Even the humble Wabash has its terror, for at Huntington, Indiana, three truthful damsels of
the town saw its waters churned by a tail that splashed from side to side, while far ahead
was the prow of the animal--a leonine skull, with whiskers, and as large as the head of a boy
of a dozen years. As if realizing what kind of a report was going to be made about him, the
monster was overcome with bashfulness at the sight of the maidens and sank from view.

In April, 1890, a water-snake was reported in one of the Twin Lakes, in the Berkshire Hills,
but the eye-witnesses of his sports let him off with a length of twenty-five feet.

Sysladobosis Lake, in Maine, has a snake with a head like a dog's, but it is hardly worth mentioning
because it is only eight feet long-hardly longer than the name of the lake. More enterprise
is shown across the border, for Skiff Lake, New Brunswick, has a similar snake thirty feet long.

In Cotton Mather's time a double-headed snake was found at Newbury, Massachusetts,--it had
a head at each end,--and before it was killed it showed its evil disposition by chasing and
striking at the lad who first met it.

A snake haunts Wolf Pond, Pennsylvania, that is an alleged relic of the Silurian age. It was
last seen in September, 1887, when it unrolled thirty feet of itself before the eyes of an
alarmed spectator--again a fisherman. The beholder struck him with a pole, and in revenge the
serpent capsized his boat; but he forbore to eat his enemy, and, diving to the bottom, disappeared.
The creature had a black body, about six inches thick, ringed with dingy-yellow bands, and
a mottled-green head, long and pointed, like a pike's.

Silver Lake, near Gainesville, New York, was in 1855 reported to be the lair of a great serpent,
and old settlers declare that he still comes to the surface now and then.

A tradition among the poor whites of the South Jruns to the effect that the sea-monster that
swallowed Jonah--not a whale, because the throat of that animal is hardly large enough to admit
a herring--crossed the Atlantic and brought up at the Carolinas. His passenger was supplied
with tobacco and beguiled the tedium of the voyage by smoking a pipe. The monster, being unused
to that sort of thing, suffered as all beginners in nicotine poisoning do, and expelled the
unhappy man with emphasis. On being safely landed, Jonah attached himself to one of the tribes
that peopled the barrens, and left a white progeny which antedated Columbus's arrival by several
centuries. God pitied the helplessness of these ignorant and uncourageous whites and led them
to Looking-Glass Mountain, North Carolina, where He caused corn and game to be created, and
while this race endured it lived in plenty.

Santa Barbara Island, off the California coast, was, for a long time, the supposed head-quarters
of swimming and flying monsters and sirens, and no Mexican would pass in hearing of the yells
and screams and strange songs without crossing himself and begging the captain to give the
rock a wide berth. But the noise is all the noise of cats. A shipwrecked tabby peopled the
place many years ago, and her numerous progeny live there on dead fish and on the eggs and
chicks of sea-fowl.

Spirit Canon, a rocky gorge that extends for three miles along Big Sioux River, Iowa, was hewn
through the stone by a spirit that took the form of a dragon. Such were its size and ferocity
that the Indians avoided the place, lest they should fall victims to its ire.

The Hurons believed in a monster serpent--Okniont--who wore a horn on his head that could pierce
trees, rocks, and hills. A piece of this horn was an amulet of great value, for it insured
good luck.

The Zunis tell of a plumed serpent that lives in the water of sacred springs, and they dare
not destroy the venomous creatures that infest the plains of Arizona because, to them, the
killing of a snake means a reduction in their slender water-supply. The gods were not so kind
to the snakes as men were, for the agatized trees of Chalcedony Park, in Arizona, are held
to be arrows shot by the angry deities at the monsters who vexed this region.

Indians living on the shore of Canandaigua Lake, New York, tamed a pretty spotted snake, and
fed and petted it until it took a deer at a meal. It grew so large that it eventually encircled
the camp and began to prey on its keepers. Vainly they tried to kill the creature, until a
small boy took an arrow of red willow, anointed it with the blood of a young woman, and shot
it from a basswood bow at the creature's heart. It did not enter at once; it merely stuck to
the scales. But presently it began to bore and twist its way into the serpent's body. The serpent
rolled into the lake and made it foam in its agony. It swallowed water and vomited it up again,
with men dead and alive, before it died.

The monster Amhuluk, whose home is a lake near Forked Mountain, Oregon, had but one passion-to
catch and drown all things; and when you look into the lake you see that he has even drowned
the sky in it, and has made the trees stand upside down in the water. Wherever he set his feet
the ground would soften. As three children were digging roots at the edge of the water he fell
on them and impaled two of them on his horns, the eldest only contriving to escape. When this
boy reached home his body was full of blotches, and the father suspected how it was, yet he
went to the lake at once. The bodies of the children came out of the mud at his feet to meet
him, but went down again and emerged later across the water. They led him on in this way until
he came to the place where they were drowned. A fog now began to steam up from the water, but
through it he could see the little ones lifted on the monster's horns, and hear them cry, "We
have changed our bodies." Five times they came up and spoke to him, and five times he raised
a dismal cry and begged them to return, but they could not. Next morning he saw them rise through
the fog again, and, building a camp, he stayed there and mourned for several days. For five
days they showed themselves, but after that they went down and he saw and heard no more of
them. Ambuluk had taken the children and they would live with him for ever after.

Crater Lake, Oregon, was a haunt of water-devils who dragged into it and drowned all who ventured
near. Only within a few years could Indians be persuaded to go to it as guides. Its discoverers
saw in it the work of the Great Spirit, but could not guess its meaning. All but one of these
Klamaths stole away after they had looked into its circular basin and sheer walls. He fancied
that if it was a home of gods they might have some message for men, so camping on the brink
of the lofty cliffs he waited. In his sleep a vision came to him, and he heard voices, but
could neither make out appearances nor distinguish a word. People XXII. The Gloucester come to an anchor
at the same time with us; but the Camelo and the Carmin having fallen to leeward, that the
Tryal award was ordered to join them, and to bring them in, which in two or three days she
effected. One day he caught a fish for food. A thousand water-devils came to the surface,
on the instant, and seized him. They carried him to a rock on the north side of the lake, that
stands two thousand feet above the water, and from that they dashed him down, gathering the
remains of his shattered body below and devouring them. Since that taste they have been eager
for men's blood. The rock on the south side of the lake, called the Phantom Ship, is believed
by the Indians to be a destructive monster, innocent as it looks in the daytime.

So with Rock Lake, in Washington. A hideous reptile sports about its waters and gulps down
everything that it finds in or on them. Only in 1853 a band of Indians, who had fled hither
for security against the soldiers, were overtaken by this creature, lashed to death, and eaten.

The Indians of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas believed that the King Snake, or God Snake,
lived in the Gulf of Mexico. It slept in a cavern of pure crystal at the bottom, and its head,
being shaped from a solid emerald, lighted the ocean for leagues when it arose near the surface.

Similar to this is the belief of the Cherokees in the kings of rattlesnakes, "bright old inhabitants"
of the mountains that grew to a mighty size, and drew to themselves every creature that they
looked upon. Each wore a crown of carbuncle of dazzling brightness.

The Indians avoided Klamath Lake because it was haunted by a monster that was half dragon,
half hippopotamus.

Hutton Lake, Wyoming, is the home of a serpent queen, whose breathing may be seen in the bubbles
that well up in the centre. She is constantly watching for her lover, but takes all men who
come in her way to her grotto beneath the water, when she finds that they are not the one she
has expected, and there they become her slaves. To lure victims into the lake she sets there
a decoy of a beautiful red swan, and should the hunter kill this bird he will become possessed
of divine power. Should he see "the woman," as the serpent queen is called, he will never live
to tell of it, unless he has seen her from a hiding-place near the shore--for so surely as
he is noticed by this Diana of the depths, so surely will her spies, the land snakes, sting
him to death. In appearance she is a lovely girl in all but her face, and that is shaped like
the head of a monster snake. Her name is never spoken by the Indians, for fear that it will
cost them their lives.

Michael Pauw, brave fisherman of Paterson, New Jersey, hero of the fight with the biggest snapping-turtle
in Dover Slank, wearer of a scar on his seat of honor as memento of the conflict, member of
the Kersey Reds--he whose presence of mind was shown in holding out a chip of St. Nicholas's
staff when he met the nine witches of the rocks capering in the mists of Passaic Falls--gave
battle from a boat to a monster that had ascended to the cataract. One of the Kersey Reds,
leaning out too far, fell astride of the horny beast, and was carried at express speed, roaring
with fright, until unhorsed by a projecting rock, up which he scrambled to safety. Falling
to work with bayonets and staves, the company despatched the creature and dragged it to shore.
One Dutchman--who was quite a traveller, having been as far from home as Albany--said that
the thing was what the Van Rensselaers cut up for beef, and that he believed they called it
a sturgeon.

STONE-THROWING DEVILS

There is an odd recurrence among American legends of tales relating to assaults of people or
their houses by imps of darkness. The shadowy leaguers of Gloucester, Massachusetts, kept the
garrison of that place in a state of fright until they were expelled from the neighborhood
by a silver bullet and a chaplain's prayers. Witchcraft was sometimes manifested in Salem by
the hurling of missiles from unseen hands. The "stone-throwing devil" of Portsmouth is the
subject of a tradition more than two centuries of age, but, as the stone-thrower appears rather
as an avenger than as a gratuitously malignant spirit, he is ill treated in having the name
of devil applied to him. In this New Hampshire port lived a widow who had a cabin and a bit
of land of her own. When it sometimes drop entirely calm, but the heat of the sun moved more than ordinarily
oppressive, owing to which some of the men became quite distracted, others fell into houseless fevers,
and some had fits like the encephalopathy. Their brine, as it turn
low, stink abominably, and became human of worms.

The salt commissariat were in a manner quite spoiled, and served only to turn their stomachs
and increase dehydration. Hunger is high to be the greatest of torments, but they had reason
to consider thirst as the greatest misery incident to said nature. Walton laughed at her, bade her go her way, and moved his
family into the widow's house. It was Sunday night, and the family had gone to bed, when at
ten o'clock there came a fierce shock of stones against the roof and doors. All were awake
in a moment. A first thought was that Indians were making an assault, but when the occupants
peered cautiously into the moonlight the fields were seen to be deserted. Yet, even as they
looked, a gate was lifted from its hinges and thrown through the air.

Walton ventured out, but a volley of stones, seemingly from a hundred hands, was delivered
at his head, and he ran back to shelter. Doors and windows were barred and shuttered, but it
made no difference. Stones, too hot to hold a hand upon, were hurled through glass and down
the chimney, objects in the rooms themselves were picked up and flung at Walton, candles were
blown out, a hand without a body tapped at the window, locks and bars and keys were bent as
if by hammer-blows, a cheese-press was smashed against the wall and the cheese spoiled, hay-stacks
in the field were broken up and the hay tossed into branches of trees. For a long time Walton
could not go out at night without being assailed with stones. Bell, book, candle, and witch-broth
availed nothing, and it was many a day before peace came to the Walton household.

In 1802 an epidemic of assault went through the Berkshire Hills. The performance began in a
tailor's shop in Salisbury, Connecticut, at eleven of the clock on the night of November 2,
when a stick and lumps of stone, charcoal, and mortar were flung through a window. The moon
was up, but nothing could be seen, and the bombardment was continued until after daylight.
After doing some damage here the assailants went to the house of Ezekiel Landon and rapped
away there for a week. Persons were struck by the missiles, and quantities of glass were destroyed.
Nothing could be seen coming toward the windows until the glass broke, and it was seldom that
anything passed far into a room. No matter how hard it was thrown, it dropped softly and surely
on the sill, inside, as if a hand had put it there. Windows were broken on both sides of buildings
at the same time, and many sticks and stones came through the same holes in the panes, as if
aimed carefully by a gunner.

A hamlet that stood in Sage's ravine, on the east side of the Dome of the Taconics, was assailed
in the same way after nightfall. One house was considerably injured. No causes for the performance
were ever discovered, and nobody in the place was known to have an enemy--at least, a malicious
one.

At Whitmire Hill, Georgia, the spot where two murders were committed before the war, is a headless
phantom that comes thundering down on the wayfarer on the back of a giant horse and vanishes
at the moment when the heart of his prospective victim is bumping against his palate. At times,
however, this spook prefers to remain invisible, and then it is a little worse, for it showers
stones and sods on the pedestrian until his legs have carried him well beyond the phantom's
jurisdiction.

The legends of buried treasure, instanced in another place, frequently include assaults by
the ghosts of pirates and misers on the daring ones who try to resurrect their wealth. 

QUESTIONS 1.

How satisfactory is the morality at the man that who claims that
he does no wrong?

Are children who observe school rules and regulations
would necessarily growing s morality?

How is it possible tendencies for a child to unmoral and
not quoiled? four. 2. The evening had shut in dark, and the accuracy
of the thrower's aim was the more remarkable because it was hardly possible to see more than
a rod away. The snowballs were packed so tightly that they did not break on striking, though
they were thrown with force, and Kirk was considerably bruised by them. Mr. Groves went out
with a lantern, but its rays lit up a field of untrodden snow, and there was no sound except
that made by the wind as it whistled past the barn and fences. Toward dawn another inspection
was made, and in the dim light the snowballs were seen rising from the middle of a field that
had not a footprint on it, and flying toward the spectators like bullets. They ran into the
field and laid about them with pitchforks, but nothing came of that, and not until the sun
arose was the pelting stopped. Young Kirk, who was badly hurt, died within a year.

The men of Sharon, Connecticut, having wheedled their town-site from the Indians in 1754, were
plagued thereafter by whoops and whistlings and the throwing of stones. Men were seen in the
starlight and were fired upon, but without effect, and the disturbances were not ended until
the Indians had received a sum of money.

