OPOSSUMS               48

    A SHEEP DROVER                                                   57

    A HUT IN THE BUSH                                                64

    SURF-BATHING--SHOOTING THE BREAKERS                              73

    AUSTRALIAN CHILDREN RIDING TO SCHOOL                             80

    THE NOMAD OF THE AUSTRALIAN INTERIOR                 On the cover

             Sketch-Map of Australia on pages vi and vii.

AUSTRALIA

CHAPTER I

ITS BEGINNING

    A "Sleeping Beauty" land--The coming of the English--Early
    explorations--The resourceful Australian.

The fairy-story of the Sleeping Beauty might have been thought out by someone having Australia
in his mind. She was the Sleeping Beauty among the lands of the earth--a great continent, delicately
beautiful in her natural features, wonderfully rich in wealth of soil and of mine, left for
many, many centuries hidden away from the life of civilization, finally to be wakened to happiness
by the courage and daring of English sailors, who, though not Princes nor even knights in title,
were as noble and as bold as any hero of a fairy-tale.

How Australia came to be in her curious isolated position in the very beginning is not quite
clear. The story of some of the continents is told in their rocks almost as clearly as though
written in books. But Australia is very, very old as a continent--much older than Europe or
America or Asia--and its story is a little blurred and uncertain partly for that reason.

Look at the map and see its shape--something like that of a pancake with a big bite out of
the north-eastern corner. In the very old days Australia was joined to those islands on the
north--the East Indies--and through them to Asia; but it was countless ages ago, for the animals
and the plants of Australia have not the least resemblance to those of Asia. They represent
a class quite distinct in themselves. That proves that for a very long time there has been
no land connection between Australia and Asia; if there had been, the types of flower and of
beasts would be more nearly kindred. There would be tigers and elephants in Australia and emus
in Asia, and the kangaroo and other marsupials would probably have disappeared. The marsupial,
it may be explained, is one of the mammalian order, which carries its young about in a pouch
for a long time after they are born. With such parental devotion, the marsupials would have
little chance of surviving in any country where there were carnivorous animals to hunt them
down; but Australia, with the exception of a very few dingoes, had no such animals, so the
marsupials survived there whilst vanishing from all other parts of the earth.

When Australia was sundered from Asia, probably by some great volcanic outburst (the East Indies
are to this day much subject to terrible earthquakes and volcanic outbreaks, and not so many
years ago a whole island was destroyed in the Straits of Sunda), the new continent probably
was in the shape somewhat of a ring, with very high mountains facing the sea, and, where now
is the great central plain, a lake or inland sea. As time wore on, the great mountains were
ground down by the action of the snow and the rain and the wind. The soil which was thus made
was in part carried towards the centre of the ring, and in time the sea or lake vanished, and
Australia took its present form of a great flat plain, through which flow sluggish rivers--a
plain surrounded by a tableland and a chain of coastal mountains. The natives and the animals
and plants of Australia, when it first became a continent, were very much the same, in all
likelihood, as now.

Thus separated in some sudden and dramatic way, Australia was quite forgotten by the rest of
the world. In Asia, near by, the Chinese built up a curious civilization, and discovered, among
other things, the use of the mariner's compass, but they do not seem to have ever attempted
to sail south to what is now known as Australasia. The Japanese, borrowing culture from the
Chinese, framed their beautiful and romantic social system, and, having a brave and enterprising
spirit, became seafarers, and are known to have reached as far as the Hawaiian Islands, more
than halfway across the Pacific Ocean to America; but they did not come to Australia. The Indian
Empire rose to magnificent greatness; the Empires of Babylon, of Nineveh, of Persia, came and
went. The Greeks, and the Romans later, penetrated to Hindustan. The Christian era came, and
later the opening up of trade with the East Indies and with China.

But still Australia slept, in her out-of-the-way corner, apart from the great streams of human
traffic, a rich and beautiful land waiting for her Fairy Prince to waken her to greatness.
There had been, though, some vague rumours of a great island in the Southern Seas. A writer
of Chios (Greece) 300 years before the Christian era mentions that there existed an island
of immense extent beyond the seas washing Europe, Asia, and Africa. It is thought that Greek
soldiers who had accompanied Alexander the Great to India had brought rumours from the Indians
of this new land. But if the Indians knew of Australia, there is no trace of their having visited
the continent.

Marco Polo, the Venetian traveller, who explored the East Indies, speaks of a Java Major as
well as a Java Minor, and in that he may refer to Australia; but he made no attempt to reach
the land. Some old maps fill up the ocean from the East Indies to the South Pole with a vague
continent called Terra Australis; but plainly they were only guessing, and did not have any
real knowledge.

In the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries Spanish and Portuguese sailors pushed on bravely with
the work of exploring the East Indies, and some of their maps of the period give indications
of a knowledge of the existence of the Australian Continent. But the definite discovery did
not come until 1605, when De Quiros and De Torres, Spanish Admirals, sailed to the East Indies
and heard of the southern continent. They sailed in search of it, but only succeeded in touching
at some of the outlying islands. One of the New Hebrides De Quiros called "Terra Australis
del Espiritu Santo" (the Southern Land of the Holy Ghost), fancying the island to be Australia.
That gave the name "Australia," which is all that survives to remind us of Spanish exploration.

In the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries Dutch sailors set to work to search for the new
southern land, and in 1605, 1616, and 1617 undoubtedly touched on points of Australia. In 1642
Tasman--from whom Tasmania, a southern island of Australia, gets its name--made important discoveries
as to the southern coast. He called the island first Van Diemen's Land, after Maria Van Diemen,
the girl whom he loved; but this name was afterwards changed. Maria Island, off the coast of
Tasmania, still, however, keeps fresh the memory of the Dutch sailor's sweetheart.

But none of these nations was destined to be the Fairy Prince to waken Australia out of her
long sleep. That privilege was kept for the British race; we cannot but think happily, for
no Spanish or Dutch colony has ever reached to the greatness and the happiness of an Australia,
a Canada, or a South Africa. It is in the British blood, it seems, to colonize happily. The
gardeners of the British race know how to "plant out" successfully. They shelter and protect
the young trees in their far-away countries through the perils of infancy, and then let them
grow up in healthy and vigorous independence. This wise method is borrowed from family life.
If a child is either too much coddled, or too much kept under in its young days, it will rarely
grow to the best and most vigorous manhood or womanhood. British colonies grow into healthy
nations just as British schoolboys grow into healthy men, because they are, at an early stage,
taught to be self-reliant.

It was not until 1688 that Australia was in any way explored by the English Captain, William
Dampier. His reports on the new land were not very flattering. He spoke of its dry, sandy soil,
and its want of water. This Sleeping Beauty had a way of pretending to be ugly to the new-comer.

From 1769 to 1777 Captain Cook carried on the first thorough British exploration of Australia,
and took possession of it and New Zealand for the British Crown. In 1788, just a century after
its first exploration by a British seaman, Australia was actually occupied by Great Britain,
"the First Fleet" founding a settlement on the shores of Port Jackson, by the side of a little
creek called the Tank Stream. That was the beginning of Sydney, at present one of the greatest
cities of the British Empire.

A great continent had been thus entered. The Sleeping Beauty was aroused from the slumber of
centuries. But very much had yet to be done before she could "marry the Prince and then live
happily ever afterwards." The story of how that was done, and how Australia was explored and
settled, is one of the most heroic of our British annals. True, no wild animals or warlike
tribes had to be faced; but vast distances of land which of itself produced little or no food
for man, the long waterless stretches, the savage ruggedness of the mountains, set up obstacles
far more awesome because more strange. Man had to contend, not with wild animals, whose teeth
and claws he might evade, nor with wild men whose weapons he could overmatch with his own,
but with Nature in what seemed always a hostile and unrelenting mood. It almost seemed that
Nature, unwilling to give up to civilization the last of the lonely lands of the earth, made
a conscious effort to beat back the advance of exploration and civilization.

On the little coastal settlement famine was soon felt. The colonists did not understand how
to get crops from the soil. They attempted to follow the times and the manners of England;
but here they were in the Antipodes, where everything was exactly opposite to English conditions.
There were no natural grain-crops; there were practically no food-animals good to eat. The
kangaroo and wallaby provide nowadays a delicious soup (made from the tails of the animals),
but the flesh of their bodies is tough and dark and rank. Even so it was in very limited supply.
The early settlers ate kangaroo flesh gladly, but they were not able to get enough of it to
keep them in meat.

Communication with England, whence all food had to come, was in those days of sailing-ships
slow and uncertain. At different times the first settlement was in actual danger of perishing
from starvation and of being abandoned in despair at ever making anything useful of a land
which seemed unable to produce even food for white inhabitants.

Fortunately, those thoughts of despair were not allowed to rule. The dogged British spirit
saved the position. The conquest of Nature in Australia was perseveringly carried through,
and Great Britain has the reward to-day in the existence of an all-British continent having
nearly 5,000,000 of population, who are the richest producers in the world from the soil.

After the early settlers had learned with much painful effort that the coast around Sydney
would produce some little grain and fruit and grass for cattle, there was still another halt
in the progress of the continent. West of Sydney, about forty miles from the coast, stretched
the Blue Mountains, and these it was found impossible to cross. No passes existed. Though not
very lofty, the mountains were savagely wild. The explorer, following a ridge or a line of
valley with patience for many miles, would come suddenly on a vast chasm; a cliff-face falling
absolutely perpendicularly 1,000 feet or so would declare "No road here." Nowadays, when the
Blue Mountains have been conquered, and they are traversed by roads and railways, tourists
from all parts of the world find great joy in looking upon these wonderful gorges; but in the
days of the explorers they were the cause of many disappointments--indeed, of many tragedies.
Men escaping from the prisons (Australia was first used as a reformatory by Great Britain)
would attempt to cross the Blue Mountains on their way, as they thought, to China and freedom,
always to perish miserably in the wild gorges.

Finally, the Blue Mountains were conquered by the explorers Blaxland, Lawson, and Wentworth.
Two roads were cut across them, one from Sydney, one from Windsor, about thirty miles north
from Sydney. The passing of the Blue Mountains opened up to Australia the great tableland,
on which the chief mineral discoveries were to be made, and the vast interior plains, which
were to produce merino wool of such quality as no other land can equal.

From that onwards exploration was steadily pushed on. Sometimes the explorers went out into
the wilderness with horses, sometimes with camels; other tracts of land were explored by boat
expeditions, following the track of one of the slow rivers. The perils always were of thirst
and hunger. Very rarely did the blacks give any serious trouble. But many explorers perished
from privation, such as Burke and Wills (who led out a great expedition from Melbourne, which
was designed to cross the continent from north to south) and Dr. Leichhardt. Even now there
is some danger in penetrating to some of the wilder parts of the interior of Australia without
a skilful guide, who knows where water can be found, and deaths from thirst in the Bush are
not infrequent.

One device has saved many lives. The wildest and loneliest part of the continent is traversed
by a telegraph line, which brings the European cable-messages from Port Darwin, on the north
coast, to Adelaide, in the south. Men lost in the Bush near to that line make for its route
and cut the wire. That causes an interruption on the line; a line-repairer is sent out from
the nearest repairing-station, and finds the lost man camped near the break. Sometimes he is
too late, and finds him dead.

In the west, around the great goldfields, where water is very scarce, white explorers have
sometimes adopted a way to get help which is far more objectionable. The natives in those regions
are very reluctant to show the locality of the waterholes. The supply is scanty, and they have
learned to regard the white man as wasteful and inconsiderate in regard to water. But a white
explorer or traveller has been known to catch a native, and, filling his mouth with salt, to
expose him to the heat of the sun until the tortures of thirst forced him to lead the white
party to a native well. But these are rare dark spots on the picture. The records of Australian
exploration, as a whole, are bright with heroism.

The early pioneer in Australia--called a "squatter" because he squatted on the land where he
chose--enjoyed a picturesque life. Taking all his household goods with him, driving his flocks
and herds before him, he moved out into the wilderness looking for a place to settle or "squat."
It was the experience of the "Swiss Family Robinson" made real. The little community, with
its waggons and tents, its horses, oxen, sheep, dogs, perhaps also with a few poultry in one
of the waggons, would have to live for many months an absolutely self-contained life. The family
and its servants would provide wheelwrights, blacksmiths, carpenters, veterinary surgeons,
cattle-herds, milkers, shearers, cooks, bridge-builders, and the like. The children brought
up under those conditions won not only fine healthy frames, but an alertness of mind, a wideness
of resource which made them, and their children after them, fine nation-builders.

I am tempted, in illustration of this, to quote from a larger work of mine, "Australia," an
instance of my own observation of the "resourceful Australian":

"Without touch of cap, or sign of servility, the swagman came up.

"'Gotter a job, boss?'

"'No chance; but you can go round and get rations.'

"'I wanter job pretty bad. Times have been hard. Perhaps you recollect me--Jim Stone. You had
me once working on the Paroo.'

"It was a blazing hot day in Central Queensland on one of the big cattle stations out from
the railway line, a station which had not yet reached the dignity of fencing. The boss remembered
that Jim Stone "was a good sort," and that it was forty miles to the next chance of a job.
And there was always something to be done on a station.

"'All right, Stone. I think I can put you on to something for a month or two.'

"'Thanks. Start now?'

"'Look. I have got a few men on digging tanks, about thirty miles out. It's north-north-east.
You can pick up their camp?'

"'Yes.'

"'Well, I want you to take a bullock-dray out, with stores, and bring back anything they want
sent back.'

"'Yes. Where are the bullocks?'

"'I haven't got a team broken in. But there's old Scarlet-Eye and two others broken in. You'll
pick them up along that little creek there, six miles out'; he pointed indefinitely into the
heat haze on the plain, where there seemed to be some trees on the horizon. 'Collar them, and
then you'll find the milkers' herd right back of the homestead, only a few miles. Punch out
seven of the biggest and make up your team.'

"'Yes. Where's ther dray?'

"'Behind the blacksmith's shed there. By the way, there are no yokes, but you'll find some
bar-iron and some timber at the blacksmith's shed. Knock out some yokes. I think there's one
chain. You can make up another with some fencing wire.'

"'Right-oh.'

"And this Australian casual worker (at 30s. a week and rations) went his way cheerfully. He
had to find some odd bullocks six miles out, in the flat, grey, illimitable plain; then find
the herd of milkers somewhere else in that vague vastness, and break seven of them to harness;
fix up a dray and make cattle yokes; and then go out into the depths to find a camp thirty
miles out, without a fence or a track, and hardly a tree, to guide him.

"He did it all, because to him it was quite ordinary. The freshly-broken-in cattle had to be
kept in the yokes for a week, night and day, else they would have cleared out. That was the
only real hardship, in his opinion, and the cattle had to suffer that. He was content to be
surveyor, waggon-builder, blacksmith, subduer of beasts, man of infinite pluck, resource, and
energy, for 30s. a week and rations! And he was a typical sample of the 'back-country Australian.'"

In the Australian Bush most children can milk a cow, ride a horse, or harness him into a cart,
snare or shoot game, kill a snake, find their way through the trackless forest by the sun or
the stars, and cook a meal. In the cities, too, they are, though less skilled in such things,
used to do far more for themselves than the average European child.

After the squatters in Australia came the gold-diggers. Gold was discovered in Victoria and
in New South Wales. At first, strangely enough, an effort was made to prevent the fact being
known that gold was to be found in Australia. Some of the rulers of the colony feared that
the gold would ruin and not help the country. And certainly in the very early days of the gold-digging
rushes, much harm was done to the settled industries of the land through everybody rushing
away to the diggings. Farms were abandoned, workshops deserted, the sailors left their ships,
the shepherds their sheep, the shop-keepers their shops--all with the gold fever. But that
early madness soon passed away, and Australia got the benefit of the gold discoverers in a
great increase of population. Most of those who came to dig gold remained to dig potatoes and
other more certain wealth out of the land.

Do you remember the tale of the ancient wise man whose two sons were lazy fellows? He could
not get them by any means to work in the vineyard. As long as his own hands could toil he tended
the vineyard, and maintained his idle sons. But on his death-bed he feared for their future.
So he made them the victims of a pious fraud. "There is a great sum in gold buried in the vineyard,"
he told them with his dying breath. "But I cannot tell you where. You must find that for yourselves."

Tempted by the promise of quick fortune, the idle sons dug everywhere in the vineyard to find
the buried treasure. They never came across any actual gold, but the good effect of their digging
was such that the vineyard prospered wonderfully and they grew rich from its fine crops.

So it was, in a way, with Australia. The gold discoverers did much good by attracting people
to the country in search of gold who, though they found no gold, developed the other resources
of a great country.

When the yields from the alluvial goldfields decreased there was a great demand from the out-of-work
diggers and others for land for farming, and the agricultural era began in Australia. Since
then the growth of the country has been sound, and, if a little slow, sure. It has been slow
because the ideal of the people has always been a sound and a general well-being rather than
a too-quick growth. "Slow and steady" is a good motto for a nation as well as an individual.

CHAPTER II

AUSTRALIA OF TO-DAY

    The diggings--The Government at Melbourne--The sheep-runs--The
    rabbits--The delights of Sydney.

If, by good luck, you were to have a trip to Australia now, you would find, probably, the sea
voyage, which takes up five weeks as a rule, a little irksome. But fancy that over, and imagine
yourself safely into Australia of to-day. Fremantle will be the first place of call. It is
the port of Perth, which is the capital of West Australia. That great State occupies nearly
a quarter of the continent; but its population is as yet the least important of the continental
States, and not very much ahead of the little island of Tasmania. Still, West Australia is
advancing very quickly. On the north it has great pearl fisheries; inland it has goldfields,
which take second rank in the world's list, and it is fast developing its agricultural and
pastoral riches.

Very soon it will be possible to leave the steamer at Fremantle and go by train right across
the continent to the Eastern cities. Now you must travel by steamer to Port Adelaide, for Adelaide,
the capital of South Australia. It is a charming city, surrounded by vineyards, orange orchards,
and almond and olive groves. In the season you may get for a penny all the grapes that you
could possibly eat, and oranges and other fruit are just as cheap.

Adelaide has the reputation of being a very "good" city. It was founded largely by high-minded
colonists from Britain, whose main idea was to seek in the new world a place where poverty
and its evils would not exist. To a very large extent they succeeded. There are no slums in
Adelaide and no starving children. Everywhere is an air of quiet comfort.

From Adelaide you may take the train to complete your trip, the end of which is, say, Brisbane.
Leaving Adelaide, you climb in the train the pretty Mount Lofty Mountains and then sweep down
on to the plains and cross the Murray River near its mouth. The Murray is the greatest of Australian
rivers. It rises in the Australian Alps, and gathers on its way to the sea the Murrumbidgee
and the Darling tributaries. There is a curious floating life on these rivers. Nomad men follow
along their banks, making a living by fishing and doing odd jobs on the stations they pass.
They are called "whalers," and follow the life, mainly, I think, because of a gipsy instinct
for roving, since it is not either a comfortable or profitable existence. On the rivers, too,
are all sorts of curious little colonies, living in barges, and floating down from town to
town. You may find thus floating, little theatres, cinematograph shows, and even circuses.

The fisheries of these rivers are somewhat important, the chief fish caught being the Murray
cod. It grows sometimes to a vast size, to the size almost of a shark; but when the cod is
so big its flesh is always rank and uneatable by Europeans.

Fishing for a cod is not an occupation calling for very much industry. The fisherman baits
his line, ties it to a stake fixed on the river bank, and on the stake hangs a bell. Then the
fisherman gets under the shadow of a gum-tree and enjoys a quiet life, reading or just lazing.
If a cod takes the bait the bell will ring, and he will go and collect his fish, which obligingly
catches itself, and does not need any play to bring it to land.

A cruel practice is followed to keep these fish fresh until a boat or train to the city markets
is due: a line is passed through the cod's lip, and it is tethered to a stake in the water
near the bank. Thus it can swim about and keep alive for some time; but the cruelty is great,
and efforts are now being made to stop this tethering of codfish.

These Australian inland rivers are slow and sluggish, and fish, such as trout, accustomed to
clear running waters, will not live in them. But in the smaller mountain streams, which feed
the big inland rivers, trout thrive, and as they have been introduced from England and America
they provide good sport to anglers.

The plain-country through which the big rivers flow is very flat, and is therefore liable to
great floods. Australia has the reputation of being a very dry country; as a matter of fact,
the rainfall over one-third of its area is greater than that of England. In most places the
rainfall is, however, badly distributed. After long spells of very dry weather there will come
fierce storms, during which the rain sometimes falls at the rate of an inch an hour. This fact,
and the curious physical formation of the continent, about which you already know, makes it
very liable to floods.

Great floods of the past have been at Brisbane, the capital of Queensland, destroying a section
of the city; at Bourke (N.S.W.), and at Gundagai (N.S.W.). In the latter a town was destroyed
and many lives lost. Another flood on the Hunter River (N.S.W.) was marked by the drowning
of the Speaker of the local Parliament. But great loss of human life is rare; sacrifice of
stock is sometimes, however, enormous. Cattle fare better than sheep, for they will make some
wise effort to reach a point of safety, whilst sheep will, as likely as not, huddle together
in a hollow, not having the sense even to seek the little elevations which are called "hills,"
though only raised a few feet above the general level.

I recall well a flood in the Narrabri (N.S.W.) district some seventeen years ago, and its moving
perils. The hillocks on which cattle, sheep, and in some cases human beings, had taken refuge
were crowded, too, with kangaroos, emus, brolgas (a kind of crane), koalas (known as the native
bear), rabbits, and snakes. Mutual hostilities were for a time suspended by the common danger,
though the snakes and the rabbits were rarely given the advantages of the truce if there were
human beings present. An incident of that flood was that the little township of Terry-hie-hie
(these aboriginal names are strange!) was almost wiped out by starvation. Beleaguered by the
waters, it was cut off from all communication with the railway and with food-supplies. When
the waters fell, the mud left on these black-soil plains was just as formidable a barrier.
Attempt after attempt to send flour through by horse and bullock teams failed. It was impossible
for thirty horses to get through with one ton of flour! The siege was only raised when the
population of the little town was on the very verge of starvation.

After crossing the Murray the train passes through what is known as "the desert"--a stretch
of country covered with mallee scrub (the mallee is a kind of small gum-tree); but nowadays
they are finding out that this mallee scrub is not hopeless country at all. The scrub is beaten
down by having great rollers drawn over it by horses; that in time kills it. Then the roots
are dug up for firewood, and the land is sown with wheat. Quite good crops are now being got
from the mallee when the rains are favourable, but in dry seasons the wheat scorches off, and
the farmer's labour is wasted. It is proposed now to carry irrigation channels through this
and similar country. When that is done there will be no more talk of desert in most parts of
Australia. It will be conquered for the use of man just as the American alkali desert is being
conquered.

Leaving the mallee, the train comes in time to Ballarat, which used to be the great centre
of the gold-mining industry. Round here gold was discovered in great lumps lying on the ground
or just below the roots of the grass. People rushed from all parts of the world to pick up
fortunes when this was heard of. The road from Melbourne was covered with waggons, with horsemen,
with diggers on foot. Most of them knew nothing at all about digging, and also lacked the knowledge
of how to get along comfortably under "camping-out" conditions, when every man has to be his
own cook, his own washer-up, his own laundryman, as well as his own mining labourer. But the
best of the men learned quickly how to look after themselves, to pitch a tent, to cook a meal,
to drive a shaft, and to do without food for long spells when on the search for new goldfields.
Thus they became resourceful and adventurous, and were of great value afterwards in the community.
There is nowadays rather a tendency in civilized countries to bring children up too softly,
to guard them too much against the little roughnesses of life. Such experiences as those of
the Australian goldfields show how good it is for men to be taught how to look after themselves
under primitive conditions.

Life on the Australian goldfields, though wild, was not unruly. There was never any lynch law,
never any "free shooting," as on the American goldfields. Public order was generally respected,
though there were at first no police. The miners, however, kept up Vigilance Committees, the
main purpose of which was to check thefts. Anyone proved guilty of theft, or even seriously
suspected of pilfering, was simply ordered out of the camp.

The Chinese were very early in getting to know of the goldfields in Australia, and rushed there
in great numbers. They were not welcomed, and there was an exception to the general rule of
good order in the Anti-Chinese riots on the goldfields. The result of these was that Chinese
were prevented by the Government from coming into the country, except in very small numbers,
and on payment of a heavy poll-tax. When this was done the excitement calmed down, and the
Chinese already in the country were treated fairly enough. They mostly settled down to growing
vegetables or doing laundry-work, though a few still work as miners.

The objection that the Australians have to the Chinamen and to other coloured races is that
they do not wish to have in the country any people with whom the white race cannot intermarry,
and they wish all people in Australia to be equal in the eyes of the law and in social consideration.
As you travel through Australia, you will probably learn to recognize the wisdom of this, and
you will get to like the Australian social idea, which is to carry right through all relations
of life the same discipline as governs a good school, giving respect to those who are most
worthy of it, by conduct and by capacity, and not by riches or birth.

We have stayed long enough at Ballarat. Let us move on to Melbourne--"marvellous Melbourne,"
as its citizens like to hear it called. Melbourne is built on the shores of the Yarra, where
it empties into Hudson Bay, and its sea suburbs stretch along the beautiful sandy shores of
that bay. Few European or American children can enjoy such sea beaches as are scattered all
over the Australian coast. They are beautiful white or creamy stretches of firm sand, curving
round bays, sometimes just a mile in length, sometimes of huge extent, as the Ninety Miles
Beach in Victoria. The water on the Australian coast is usually of a brilliant blue, and it
breaks into white foam as it rolls on to the shelving sand. Around Carram, Aspendale, Mentone
and Brighton, near Melbourne; at Narrabeen, Manly, Cronulla, Coogee, near Sydney; and at a
hundred other places on the Australian coast, are beautiful beaches. You may see on holidays
hundreds of thousands of people--men, women, and children--surf-bathing or paddling on the
sands. It is quite safe fun, too, if you take care not to go out too far and so get caught
in the undertow. Sharks are common on the Australian coast, but they will not venture into
the broken water of surf beaches. But you must not bathe, except in enclosed baths in the harbours,
or you run a serious risk of providing a meal for a voracious shark.

Sharks are quite the most dangerous foes of man in Australia. There have been some heroic incidents
arising from attacks by sharks on human beings. An instance: On a New South Wales beach two
brothers were bathing, and they had gone outside of the broken surf water. One was attacked
by a shark. The other went to his rescue, and actually beat the great fish off, though he lost
his arm in doing so. As a rule, however, the shark kills with one bite, attacking the trunk
of its victim, which it can sever in two with one great snap of its jaws.

Children on the Australian coast are very fond of the water. They learn to swim almost as soon
as they can walk. Through exposure to the sun whilst bathing their skin gets a coppery colour,
and except for their Anglo-Saxon eyes you would imagine many Australian youngsters to be Arabs.

The beaches of Melbourne are not its only attractions. The city itself is a very handsome one,
and its great parks are planted with fine English trees. You will see as good oaks and elms
and beeches in Fitzroy Gardens, Melbourne, as in any of the parks of old England. Melbourne,
too, at present, is the political capital of Australia, and here meet the Australian Parliament.

Every young citizen of the Empire should know something of the Commonwealth of Australia and
its political institutions, because, as the idea of Empire grows, it is recognized that all
people of British race, whether Australians, Canadians, New Zealanders, or South Africans,
or residents of the Mother Country, should know the whole Empire.

After Australia began to prosper it was found that the continent was too big to be governed
by one Parliament in Sydney, so it split up into States, each with a constitution and government
of its own. It was soon seen that a mistake had been made in splitting up altogether. The States
were like children of one family, all engaged as partners in one business, who, growing up,
decided to set up housekeeping each for himself, but neglected to arrange for some means by
which they could meet together now and again and decide on matters which were of common interest
to all of them. The separated States of Australia were, all alike, interested in making Australia
great and prosperous, and keeping her safe; but in their hurry to set up independent housekeeping
they forgot to provide for the safeguarding of that common interest.

So soon as this was recognized, patriotic men set themselves to put things right, and the result
was a Federation of the States, which is called the Commonwealth of Australia. The different
States are left to manage for themselves their local affairs, but the big Australian affairs
are managed by the Commonwealth Parliament, which at present meets in Melbourne, but one day
will meet in a new Federal capital to be built somewhere out in the Bush--that is to say, the
wild, empty country. Some people sneer at the idea of a "Bush capital," but I think, and perhaps
you will think with me, that there is something very pleasant and very promising of profit
in the idea of the country's rulers meeting somewhere in the pure air of a quiet little city
surrounded by the great Australian forest. And as things are now, the population of Australia
is too much centralized in the big cities, and it will be a good thing to have another centre
of population.

In this railway trip across the continent you are being introduced to all the main features
of Australian life, so that you will have some solid knowledge of the conditions of the country,
and can, later on, in chapters which will follow, learn of the Bush, the natives, the birds
and beasts and flowers, the games of Australia.

Leaving Melbourne, a fast and luxurious train takes you through the farming districts of Victoria,
past many smiling towns, growing rich from the industry of men who graze cattle, grow wheat
and oats and barley, make butter, or pasture sheep. At Albany the train crosses to Murray again,
this time near to its source, and New South Wales is entered.

For many, many miles now the train will run through flat, grassed country, on which great flocks
of sheep graze. This is the Riverina district, the most notable sheep land in the world. From
here, and from similar plains running all along the western and northern borders of New South
Wales, comes the fine merino wool, which is necessary for first-class cloth-making. The story
of merino wool is one of the romances of modern industry. Before the days of Australia, Spain
was looked upon as the only country in the world which could produce fine wool. Spain was not
willing that British looms should have any advantage of her production, and the British woollen
manufacturing industry, confined to the use of coarser staples, languished. Now Australia,
and Australia practically alone, produces the fine wool of the world. Australia merino wool
is finer, more elastic, longer in staple, than any wool ever dreamed of a century ago, and
its use alone makes possible some of the very fine cloths of to-day.

This merino wool is purely a product of Australian cleverness in sheep-breeding. The sheep
imported have been improved upon again and again, quality and quantity of coat being both considered,
until to-day the Australian sheep is the greatest triumph of modern science as applied to the
culture of animals, more wonderful and more useful than the thoroughbred race-horse. It is
only on the hot plains that the merino sheep flourishes to perfection. If he is brought to
cold hill-country in Australia his coat at once begins to coarsen, and his wool is therefore
not so good.

As you pass the sheep-runs in the train you will probably notice that they are divided into
paddocks by fine-mesh wire-netting. That is to keep the rabbits out. The rabbit is accounted
rather a desirable little creature in Great Britain. A rabbit-warren on an estate is a source
of good sport and good food, and the complaint is sometimes of too few rabbits rather than
too many. A boy may keep rabbits as pets with some enjoyment and some profit.

In Australia rabbits were first introduced by an emigrant from England, who wished to give
to his farm a home-like air. They spread over the country with such marvellous rapidity as
to become soon a serious nuisance, then a national danger. Millions of pounds have been spent
in different parts of Australia fighting the rabbit plague; millions more will yet have to
be spent, for though the rabbits are now being kept in check, constant vigilance is needed
to see that they do not get the upper hand again. The rabbit in Australia increases its numbers
very quickly: the doe will have up to eighty or ninety young in a year. There is no natural
check to this; no winter spell of bitter cold to kill off the young and feeble. The only limit
to the rabbit life is the food-supply, and that does not fail until the pasturage intended
for the sheep is eaten bare. Not only is the grass eaten, but also the roots of the grass,
and the rabbit is a further nuisance because sheep dislike to eat grass at which bunny has
been nibbling.

The campaign against the rabbit in Australia has had all the excitement and much of the misery
of a great war. The march inland of the rabbit was like that of a devastating army. Smiling
prosperity was turned into black ruin. Where there had been green pastures and bleating sheep
there was a bare and dusty plain and starving stock.

At first wholesale poisoning was tried as a remedy for the rabbit plague. It inflicted a check,
but had the evil of killing off many of the native birds and animals. There was an idea once
of trying to spread a disease among the rabbits, so as to kill them off quickly, but that was
abandoned. Now the method is to enclose the pasture-lands within wire-netting, which is rabbit-proof,
and within this enclosure to destroy all logs and the like which provide shelters for the rabbits,
to dig up all their burrows, and to hunt down the rabbit with dogs. The best of the lands are
being thus quite cleared of rabbits. The worst lands are for the present left to bunny, who
has become a source of income, being trapped and his carcase sent frozen to England, and his
fur utilized for hat-felt. But be sure that if you bring to Australia your rabbit pets with
you from England they will be destroyed before you land, and you may reckon on having to face
serious trouble with the law for trying to bring them into the country.

Whilst you have been hearing all this about the rabbit the train has climbed up from the plains
to the Blue Mountains and is rushing down the coast slope towards Sydney, the capital of New
South Wales, the chief commercial city of Australia, and one of the great ports of the Empire.
Sydney is, I do really think, the pleasantest place in the world for a child to live in, though
two hot, muggy months of the year are to be avoided for health's sake.

On the Blue Mountains, as you crossed in the train, you will have seen wild "gullies," as they
are called in Australia--ravines in the hills which rise abruptly all around, sometimes in
wild cliffs and sometimes in steep wooded slopes. These gullies interlace with one another,
one leading into another, and stretching out little arms in all directions. Turn into one and
try to follow it up, and you never know where it will end. Well, once upon a time there was
a particularly wild one of these gully systems on the coast hills where Sydney now is. Something
sunk the level of the land suddenly, and the gullies were depressed below sea-level. The Pacific
Ocean heard of this, broke a way through a great cliff-gate, and that made Sydney Harbour.
Entering Sydney by sea, you come, as the ocean does, through a narrow gate between two lovely
cliffs. Turn sharply to the left, and you are in a maze of blue waters, fringed with steep
hills. On these hills is built Sydney. You may follow the harbour in all directions, up Iron
Cove a couple of miles to Leichhardt suburb; along the Parramatta River (which is not a river
at all, but one of the long arms of the ocean-filled gully system) ten miles to the orange
orchard country; along the Lane Cove, through wooded hills, to another orchard tract; or, going
in another direction, you may travel for scores of miles along what is called Middle Harbour,
and then have North Harbour still to explore. In spite of the nearness of the big city, and
the presence here and there of lovely suburbs on the waterside, the area of Sydney Harbour
is so vast, its windings are so amazing, that you can get in a boat to the wildest and most
lovely scenery in an hour or two. The rocky shores abound in caves, where you can camp out
in dryness and comfort. The Bush at every season of the year flaunts wildflowers. There are
fish to be had everywhere; in many places oysters; in some places rabbits, hares, and wallabies
to be hunted. Does it not sound like a children's paradise--all this within reach of a vast city?

But let us tear ourselves away from Sydney, and go on to Brisbane, passing on the way through
Kurringai Chase, one of the great National Parks of New South Wales; along the fertile Hawkesbury
and Hunter valleys, which grow Indian corn and lucerne, and oranges and melons, and men who
are mostly over six feet high; up the New England Mountains, through a country which owes its
name to the fact that the high elevation gives it a climate somewhat like that of England;
then into Queensland along the rich Darling Down studded with wheat-farms, dairy-farms, and
cattle-ranches; and finally to Brisbane, a prospering semi-tropical town which is the capital
of the Northern State of Queensland. At Brisbane you will be able to buy fine pineapples for
a penny each, and that alone should endear it to your heart.

Thus you will have seen a good deal of the Australia of to-day. You might have followed other
routes. Coming via Canada, you would reach Brisbane first. Taking a "British India" boat you
would have come down the north coast of Queensland and seen something of its wonderful tropical
vegetation, its sugar-fields, banana and coffee plantations, and the meat works which ship
abroad the products of the great cattle stations.

This tropical part of Australia really calls for a long book of its own. But as it is hardly
the Australia of to-day, though it may be the Australia of the future, we must hurry through
its great forests and its rich plains. There are wild buffalo to be found on these plains,
and in the rivers that flow through them crocodiles lurk. The crocodile is a very cunning creature.
It rests near the surface of the water like a half-submerged log waiting for a horse or an
ox or a man to come into the water. Then a rush and a meal.

If, instead of coming along the north, you had travelled via South Africa you might have landed
first at Hobart and seen the charms of dear little Tasmania, a land of apple-orchards and hop-gardens,
looking like the best parts of Kent. But you have been introduced to a good deal of Australia
and heard much of its industries and its history. It is time now to talk of savages, and birds,
and beasts, and games, and the like.

CHAPTER III

THE NATIVES

    A dwindling race; their curious weapons--The Papuan
    tree-dwellers--The cunning witch-doctors.

The natives of Australia were always few in number. The conditions of the country secured that
Australia, kept from civilization for so long, is yet the one land of the world which, whilst
capable of great production with the aid of man's skill, is in its natural state hopelessly
sterile. Australia produced no grain of any sort naturally; neither wheat, oats, barley nor
maize. It produced practically no edible fruit, excepting a few berries, and one or two nuts,
the outer rind of which was eatable. There were no useful roots such as the potato, the turnip,
or the yam, or the taro. The native animals were few and just barely eatable, the kangaroo,
the koala (or native bear) being the principal ones. In birds alone was the country well supplied,
and they were more beautiful of plumage than useful as food. Even the fisheries were infrequent,
for the coast line, as you will see from the map, is unbroken by any great bays, and there
is thus less sea frontage to Australia than to any other of the continents, and the rivers
are few in number.

Where the land inhabited by savages is poor in food-supply their number is, as a rule, small
and their condition poor. It is not good for a people to have too easy times; that deprives
them of the incentive to work. But also it is not good for people who are backward in civilization
to be kept to a land which treats them too harshly; for then they never get a fair chance to
progress in the scale of civilization. The people of the tropics and the people near the poles
lagged behind in the race for exactly opposite but equally powerful reasons. The one found
things too easy, the other found things too hard. It was in the land between, the Temperate
Zone, where, with proper industry, man could prosper, that great civilizations grew up.

The Australian native had not much to complain of in regard to his climate. It was neither
tropical nor polar. But the unique natural conditions of his country made it as little fruitful
to an uncivilized inhabitant as was Lapland. When Captain Cook landed at Botany Bay probably
there were not 500,000 natives in all Australia. And if the white man had not come, there probably
would never have been any progress among the blacks. As they were then they had been for countless
centuries, and in all likelihood would have remained for countless centuries more. They had
never, like the Chinese, the Hindus, the Peruvians, the Mexicans, evolved a civilization of
their own. There was not the slightest sign that they would be able to do so in the future.
If there was ever a country on earth which the white man had a right to take on the ground
that the black man could never put it to good use, it was Australia.

Allowing that, it is a pity to have to record that the early treatment of the poor natives
of Australia was bad. The first settlers to Australia had learned most of the lessons of civilization,
but they had not learned the wisdom and justice of treating the people they were supplanting
fairly. The officials were, as a rule, kind enough; but some classes of the new population
were of a bad type, and these, coming into contact with the natives, were guilty of cruelties
which led to reprisals and then to further cruelties, and finally to a complete destruction
of the black people in some districts.

In Tasmania, for instance, where the blacks were of a fine robust type, convicts in the early
days, escaping to the Bush, by their cruelties inflamed the natives to hatred of the white
disturbers, and outrages were frequent. The state of affairs got to be so bad that the Government
formed the idea of capturing all the natives of Tasmania and putting them on a special reserve
on Tasman Peninsula. That was to be the black man's part of the country, where no white people
would be allowed. The help of the settlers was enlisted, and a great cordon was formed around
the whole island, as if it were to be beaten for game. The cordon gradually closed in on Tasman
Peninsula after some weeks of "beating" the forests. It was found, then, that one aboriginal
woman had been captured, and that was all. Such a result might have been foreseen. Tasmania
is about as large as Scotland. Its natural features are just as wild. The cordon did not embrace
2,000 settlers. The idea of their being able to drive before them a whole native race familiar
with the Bush was absurd.

After that the old conditions ruled in Tasmania. Blacks and whites were in constant conflict,
and the black race quickly perished. To-day there is not a single member of that race alive,
Truganini, its last representative, having died about a quarter of a century ago.

On the mainland of Australia many blacks still survive; indeed, in a few districts of the north,
they have as yet barely come into contact with the white race. A happier system in dealing
with them prevails. The Government are resolute that the blacks shall be treated kindly, and
aboriginal reserves have been formed in all the States. One hears still of acts of cruelty
in the back-blocks (as the far interior of Australia is called), but, so far as the Government
can, it punishes the offenders. In several of the States there is an official known as the
Protector of the Aborigines, and he has very wide powers to shield these poor blacks from the
wickedness of others, and from their own weakness. In the Northern States now, the chief enemies
of the blacks are Asiatics from the pearl-shelling fleets, who land in secret and supply the
blacks with opium and drink. When the Commonwealth Navy, now being constructed, is in commission,
part of its duty will be to patrol the northern coast and prevent Asiatics landing there to
victimize the blacks.

The official statistics of the Commonwealth reported, in regard to the aborigines, in the year
1907:

"In Queensland, South Australia, and Western Australia, on the other hand, there are considerable
numbers of natives still in the 'savage' state, numerical information concerning whom is of
a most unreliable nature, and can be regarded as little more than the result of mere guessing.
Ethnologically interesting as is this remarkable and rapidly disappearing race, practically
all that has been done to increase our knowledge of them, their laws, habits, customs, and
language, has been the result of more or less spasmodic and intermittent effort on the part
of enthusiasts either in private life or the public service. Strange to say, an enumeration
of them has never been seriously undertaken in connection with any State census, though a record
of the numbers who were in the employ of whites, or living in contiguity to the settlements
of whites, has usually been made. As stated above, various guesses at the number of aboriginal
natives at present in Australia have been made, and the general opinion appears to be that
150,000 may be taken as a rough approximation to the total. It is proposed to make an attempt
to enumerate the aboriginal population of Australia in connection with the first Commonwealth
Census to be taken in 1911."

A very primitive savage was the Australian aboriginal. He had no architecture, but in cold
or wet weather built little break-winds, called mia-mias. He had no weapons of steel or any
other metal. His spears were tipped with the teeth of fish, the bones of animals, and with
roughly sharpened flints. He had no idea of the use of the bow and arrow, but had a curious
throwing-stick, which, working on the principle of a sling, would cast a missile a great distance.
These were his weapons--rough spears, throwing-sticks, and clubs called nullahs, or waddys.
(I am not sure that these latter are original native words. The blacks had a way of picking
up white men's slang and adding it to their very limited vocabulary; thus the evil spirit is
known among them as the "debbil-debbil.") Another weapon the aboriginal had, the boomerang,
a curiously curved missile stick which, if it missed the object at which it was aimed, would
curve back in the air and return to the feet of the thrower; thus the black did not lose his
weapon. The boomerang shows an extraordinary knowledge of the effects of curves on the flight
of an object; it is peculiar to the Australian natives, and proves that they had skill and
cunning in some respects, though generally low in the scale of human races.

The Australian aboriginals were divided into tribes, and these tribes, when food supplies were
good, amused themselves with tribal warfare. From what can be gathered, their battles were
not very serious affairs. There was more yelling and dancing and posing than bloodshed. The
braves of a tribe would get ready for battle by painting themselves with red, yellow, and white
clay in fantastic patterns. They would then hold war-dances in the presence of the enemy; that,
and the exchange of dreadful threats, would often conclude a campaign. But sometimes the forces
would actually come to blows, spears would be thrown, clubs used. The wounds made by the spears
would be dreadfully jagged, for about half a yard of the end of the spear was toothed with
bones or fishes' teeth. But the black fellows' flesh healed wonderfully. A wound that would
kill any European the black would plaster over with mud, and in a week or so be all right.

Duels between individuals were not uncommon among the natives, and even women sometimes settled
their differences in this way. A common method of duelling was the exchange of blows from a
nullah. One party would stand quietly whilst his antagonist hit him on the head with a club;
then the other, in turn, would have a hit, and this would be continued until one party dropped.
It was a test of endurance rather than of fighting power.

The women of the aboriginals were known as gins, or lubras, the children as picaninnies--this
last, of course, not an aboriginal name. The women were not treated very well by their lords:
they had to do all the carrying when on the march. At mealtimes they would sit in a row behind
the men. The game--a kangaroo, for instance--would be roughly roasted at the camp fire with
its fur still on. The men would devour the best portions and throw the rest over their shoulders
to the waiting women.

Fish was a staple article of diet for the Australian natives. Wherever there were good fishing-places
on the coast or good oyster-beds powerful tribes were camped, and on the inland rivers are
still found weirs constructed by the natives to trap fish. So far as can be ascertained, the
Australian native was rarely if ever a cannibal. His neighbours in the Pacific Ocean were generally
cannibals. Perhaps the scanty population of the Australian continent was responsible for the
absence of cannibalism; perhaps some ethical sense in the breasts of the natives, who seem
to have always been, on the whole, good-natured and little prone to cruelty.

The religious ideas of these natives were very primitive. They believed strongly in evil spirits,
and had various ceremonial dances and practices of witchcraft to ward off the influence of
these. But they had little or no conception of a Good Spirit. Their idea of future happiness
was, after they had come into contact with the whites: "Fall down black fellow, jump up white
fellow." Such an idea of heaven was, of course, an acquired one. What was their original notion
on the subject is not at all clear. The Red Indians of America had a very definite idea of
a future happy state. The aboriginals of Australia do not seem to have been able to brighten
their poor lives with such a hope.

Various books have been written about the folklore of the Australian aboriginals, but most
of the stories told as coming from the blacks seem to me to have a curious resemblance to the
stories of white folk. A legend about the future state, for instance, is just Bunyan's "Pilgrim's
Progress" put crudely to fit in with Australian conditions. I may be quite wrong in this, but
I think that most of the folk-stories coming from the natives are just their attempts to imitate
white-man stories, and not original ideas of their own. The conditions or life in Australia
for the aboriginal were so harsh, the struggle for existence was so keen, that he had not much
time to cultivate ideas. Life to him was centred around the camp-fire, the baked 'possum, and
a few crude tribal ceremonies.

Usually the Australian black is altogether spoilt by civilization. He learns to wear clothes,
but he does not learn that clothes need to be changed and washed occasionally, and are not
intended for use by day and night. He has an insane veneration for the tall silk hat which
is the badge of modern gentility, and, given an old silk hat, he will never allow it off his
head. He quickly learns to smoke and to drink, and, when he comes into contact with the Chinese,
to eat opium. He cannot be broken into any steady habits of industry, but where by wise kindness
the black fellow has been kept from the vices of civilization he is a most engaging savage.
Tall, thin, muscular, with fine black beard and hair and a curiously wide and impressive forehead,
he is not at all unhandsome. He is capable of great devotion to a white master, and is very
plucky by daylight, though his courage usually goes with the fall of night. He takes to a horse
naturally, and some of the finest riders in Australia are black fellows.

An attempt is now being made to Christianize the Australian blacks. It seems to prosper if
the blacks can be kept away from the debasing influence of bad whites. They have no serious
vices of their own, very little to unlearn, and are docile enough. In some cases black children
educated at the mission schools are turning out very well. But, on the other hand, there are
many instances of these children conforming to the habits of civilization for some years and
then suddenly feeling "the call of the wild," and running away into the Bush to join some nomad
tribe.

It is not possible to be optimistic about the future of the Australian blacks. The race seems
doomed to perish. Something can be done to prolong their life, to make it more pleasant; but
they will never be a people, never take any share in the development of the continent which
was once their own.

A quite different type of native comes under the rule of the Australian Commonwealth--the Papuan.
Though Papua, or New Guinea, as it was once called, is only a few miles from the north coast
of Australia, its race is distinct, belonging to the Polynesian or Kanaka type, and resembling
the natives of Fiji and Tahiti.

Papua is quite a tropical country, producing bananas, yams, taro, sago, and cocoa-nuts. The
natives, therefore, have always had plenty of food, and they reached a higher stage of civilization
than the Australian aborigines. But their food came too easily to allow them to go very far
forward. "Civilization is impossible where the banana grows," some observer has remarked. He
meant that since the banana gave food without any culture or call on human energy, the people
in banana-growing countries would be lazy, and would not have the stimulus to improve themselves
that is necessary for progress. To get a good type of man he must have the need to work.

The Papuan, having no need of industry, amused himself with head-hunting as a national sport.
Tribes would invade one another's districts and fight savage battles. The victors would eat
the bodies of the vanquished, and carry home their heads as trophies. A chief measured his
greatness by the number of skulls he had to adorn his house.

Since the British came to Papua head-hunting and cannibalism have been forbidden. But all efforts
to instil into the minds of the Papuan a liking for work have so far failed. So the condition
of the natives is not very happy. They have lost the only form of exercise they cared for,
and sloth, together with contact with the white man, has brought to them new and deadly diseases.
Several missionary bodies are working to convert the Papuan to Christianity, and with some success.

The Papuan builds houses and temples. His tree-dwellings are very curious. They are built on
platforms at the top of lofty palm-trees. Probably the Papuan first designed the tree-dwelling
as a refuge from possible enemies. Having climbed up to his house with the aid of a rope ladder
and drawn the ladder up after him, he was fairly safe from molestation, for the long, smooth,
branchless trunks of the palm-trees do not make them easy to scale. In time the Papuan learned
the advantages of the tree-dwelling in marshy ground, and you will find whole villages on the
coast built of trees. Herodotus states of the ancient Egyptians that in some parts they slept
on top of high towers to avoid mosquitoes and the malaria that they brought. The Papuan seems
to have arrived at the same idea.

Sorcery is a great evil among the Papuans. In every village almost, some crafty man pretends
to be a witch and to have the power to destroy those who are his enemies. This is a constant
thorn in the side of the Government official and the missionary. The poor Papuan goes all his
days beset by the Powers of Darkness. The sorcerer, the "pourri-pourri" man, can blast him
and his pigs, crops, family (that is the Papuan order of valuation) at will. The sorcerer is
generally an old man. He does not, as a rule, deck himself in any special garb, or go through
public incantations, as do most savage medicine-men. But he hints and threatens, and lets inference
take its course, till eventually he becomes a recognized power, feared and obeyed by all. Extortion,
false swearing, quarrels and murders, and all manner of iniquity, follow in his train. No native
but fears him, however complete the training and education of civilization. For the Papuan
never thinks of death, plague, pestilence or famine as arising from natural causes. Every little
misfortune (much more every great one) is credited to a "pourri-pourri" or magic. The Papuan,
when he comes "under the Evil Eye" of the witch-doctor, will wilt away and die, though, apparently,
he has nothing at all the matter with him; and since Europeans are apt to suffer from malarial
fever in Papua, the witch-doctors are prompt to put this down to their efforts, and so persuade
the natives that they have power even over Europeans.

A gentleman who was a resident magistrate in Papua tells an amusing tale of how one witch-doctor
was very properly served. "A village constable of my acquaintance, wearied with the attentions
of a magician of great local repute, who had worked much harm with his friends and relations,
tied him up with rattan ropes, and sank him in 20 feet of water against the morning. He argued,
as he explained at his trial for murder, 'If this man is the genuine article, well and good,
no harm done. If he is not--well, it's a good riddance!' On repairing to the spot next morning,
and pulling up his night-line, he found that the magician had failed to 'make his magic good,'
and was quite dead. The constable's punishment was twelve months' hard labour. It was a fair
thing to let him off easily, as in killing a witch-doctor he had really done the community
a service."

The future of the Papuan is more hopeful than that of the Australian aboriginal, and he may
be preserved in something near to his natural state if means can be found to make him work.

CHAPTER IV

THE ANIMALS AND BIRDS

    The kangaroo--The koala--The bulldog ant--Some quaint and
    delightful birds--The kookaburra--Cunning crows and cockatoo.

Australia has most curious animals, birds, and flowers. This is due to the fact that it is
such an old, old place, and has been cut off so long from the rest of the world. The types
of animals that lived in Europe long before Rome was built, before the days, indeed, of the
Egyptian civilization, animals of which we find traces in the fossils of very remote periods--those
are the types living in Australia to-day. They belong to the same epoch as the mammoth and
the great flying lizards and other creatures of whom you may learn something in museums. Indeed,
Australia, as regards its fauna, may be considered as a museum, with the animals of old times
alive instead of in skeleton form.

The kangaroo is always taken as a type of Australian animal life. When an Australian cricket
team succeeds in vanquishing in a Test Match an English one (which happens now and again),
the comic papers may be always expected to print a picture of a lion looking sad and sorry,
and a kangaroo proudly elate. The kangaroo, like practically all Australian animals, is a marsupial,
carrying its young about in a pouch after their birth until they reach maturity. The kangaroo's
forelegs are very small; its hindlegs and its tail are immensely powerful, and these it uses
for progression, rushing with huge hops over the country. There are very many animals which
may be grouped as kangaroos, from the tiny kangaroo rat, about the size of an English water-rat,
to the huge red kangaroo, which is over six feet high and about the weight of a sucking calf.
The kangaroo is harmless and inoffensive as a rule, but it can inflict a dangerous kick with
its hindlegs, and when pursued by dogs or men and cornered, the "old man" kangaroo will sometimes
fight for its life. Its method is to take a stand in a water-hole or with its back to a tree,
standing on its hindlegs and balanced on its tail. When a dog approaches it is seized in the
kangaroo's forearms and held under water or torn to pieces. Occasionally men's lives have been
lost through approaching incautiously an old man kangaroo.

The kangaroo's method of self-defence has been turned to amusing account by circus-proprietors.
The "boxing kangaroo" was at one time quite a common feature at circuses and music-halls. A
tame kangaroo would have its forefeet fitted with boxing-gloves. Then when lightly punched
by its trainer, it would, quite naturally, imitate the movements of the boxer, fending off
blows and hitting out with its forelegs. One boxing kangaroo I had a bout with was quite a
clever pugilist. It was very difficult to hit the animal, and its return blows were hard and
well directed.

The different sorts of kangaroo you may like to know. There is the kangaroo rat, very small;
the "flying kangaroo," a rare animal of the squirrel species, but marsupial, which lives in
trees; the wallaby, the wallaroo, the paddy-melon (medium varieties of kangaroo); the grey
and the red kangaroo, the last the biggest and finest of the species.

The kangaroo, as I have said, is not of much use for meat. Its flesh is very dark and rank,
something like that of a horse. However, chopped up into a fine sausage-meat, with half its
weight of fat bacon, kangaroo flesh is just eatable. The tail makes a very rich soup. The skin
of the kangaroo provides a soft and pliant leather which is excellent for shoes. Kangaroo furs
are also of value for rugs and overcoats.

Of tree-inhabiting animals the chief in Australia is the 'possum (which is not really an opossum,
but is somewhat like that American rodent, and so got its name), and the koala, or native bear.
Why this little animal was called a "bear" it is hard to say, for it is not in the least like
a bear. It is about the size of a very large and fat cat, is covered with a very thick, soft
fur, and its face is shaped rather like that of an owl, with big saucer-eyes.

The koala is the quaintest little creature imaginable. It is quite harmless, and only asks
to be let alone and allowed to browse on gum-leaves. Its flesh is uneatable except by an aboriginal
or a victim to famine. Its fur is difficult to manipulate, as it will not lie flat, so the
koala should have been left in peace. But its confiding and somewhat stupid nature, and the
senseless desire of small boys and "children of larger growth" to kill something wild just
for the sake of killing, has led to the koala being almost exterminated in many places. Now
it is protected by the law, and may get back in time to its old numbers. I hope so. There is
no more amusing or pretty sight than that of a mother koala climbing sedately along a gum-tree
limb, its young ones riding on it pick-a-back, their claws dug firmly into its soft fur.

The 'possum is much hunted for its fur. The small black 'possum found in Tasmania and in the
mountainous districts is the most valuable, its fur being very close and fine. Dealers in skins
will sometimes dye the grey 'possum's skin black and trade it off as Tasmanian 'possum. It
is a trick to beware of when buying furs. Bush lads catch the 'possum with snares. Finding
a tree, the scratched bark of which tells that a 'possum family lives upstairs in one of its
hollows, they fix a noose to the tree. The 'possum, coming down at night to feed or to drink,
is caught in the noose. Another way of getting 'possum skins is to shoot the little creatures
on moonlight nights. (The 'possum is nocturnal in its habits, and sleeps during the day.) When
there is a good moon the 'possums may be seen as they sit on the boughs of the gum-trees, and
brought down with a shot-gun.

Besides its human enemies, the 'possum has the 'goanna (of which more later) to contend with.
The 'goanna--a most loathsome-looking lizard--can climb trees, and is very fond of raiding
the 'possum's home when the young are there. Between the men who want its coat and the 'goannas
who want its young the 'possum is fast being exterminated.

Two other characteristic Australian animals you should know about. The wombat is like a very
large pig; it lives underground, burrowing vast distances. The wombat is a great nuisance in
districts where there are irrigation canals; its burrows weaken the banks of the water-channels,
and cause collapses. The dugong is a sea mammal found on the north coast of Australia. It is
said to be responsible for the idea of the mermaid. Rising out of the water, the dugong's figure
has some resemblance to that of a woman.

Then there is the bunyip--or, rather, there isn't the bunyip, so far as we know as yet. The
bunyip is the legendary animal of Australia. It is supposed to be of great size--as big as
a bullock--and of terrible ferocity. The bunyip is represented as living in lakes and marshes,
but it has never been seen by any trustworthy observer. The blacks believe profoundly in the
bunyip, and white children, when very young, are scared with bunyip tales. There may have been
once an animal answering to its description in Australia; if so, it does not seem to have survived.

In Tasmania, however, are found, though very rarely, two savage and carnivorous marsupials
called the Tasmanian tiger and the Tasmanian devil. The tiger is almost as large as the female
Bengal tiger, and has a few little stripes near its tail, from which fact it gets its name.
The Tasmanian tiger will create fearful havoc if it gets among sheep, killing for the sheer
lust of killing. At one time a price of £100 was put on the head of the Tasmanian tiger. As
settlement progressed it became rarer and rarer, and I have not heard of one having been seen
for some years. The Tasmanian devil is a marsupial somewhat akin to the wild cat, and of about
the same size. It is very ferocious, and has been known to attack man, springing on him from
a tree branch. The Tasmanian devil is likewise becoming very rare.

The existence of these two animals in Tasmania and not in Australia shows that that island
has been a very long time separated from the mainland.

Australia is very well provided with serpents--rather too well provided--and the Bush child
has to be careful in regard to putting his hand into rabbit burrows or walking barefoot, as
there are several varieties of venomous snake. But the snakes are not at all the great danger
that some imagine. You might live all your life in Australia and never see one; but in a few
country parts it has been found necessary to enclose the homesteads on the stations with snake-proof
wire-fencing, so as to make some place of safety in which young children may play. The most
venomous of Australian snakes are the death-adder, fortunately a very sluggish variety; the
tiger-snake, a most fierce serpent, which, unlike other snakes, will actually turn and pursue
a man if it is wounded or angered; the black snake, a handsome creature with a vivid scarlet
belly; and the whip-snake, a long, thin reptile, which may be easily mistaken for a bit of
stick, and is sometimes picked up by children. But no Australian snake is as deadly as the
Indian jungle snakes, and it is said that the bite of no Australian snake can cause death if
the bite has been given through any cloth. So the only real danger is in walking through the
Bush barefooted, or putting the hand into holes where snakes may be lurking.

Some of the non-venomous snakes of Australia are very handsome, the green tree-snake and the
carpet-snake (a species of python) for examples. The carpet-snake is occasionally kept in the
house or in the barn to destroy mice and other small vermin.

Lizards in great variety are found in Australia, the chief being one incorrectly called an
iguana, which colloquial slang has changed to 'goanna. The 'goanna is an altogether repulsive
creature. It feasts on carrion, on the eggs of birds, on birds themselves, on the young of
any creature. Growing to a great size--I have seen one 9 feet long and as thick in the body
as a small dog--the 'goanna looks very dangerous, and it will bite a man when cornered. Though
not venomous in the strict sense of the word, the 'goanna's bite generally causes a festering
wound on account of the loathsome habits of the creature. The Jew-lizard and the devil-lizard
are two other horrid-looking denizens of the Australian forest, but in their cases an evil
character does not match an evil face, for they are quite harmless.

Spiders are common, but there is, so far as I know, only one dangerous one--a little black
spider with a red spot on its back. Large spiders, called (incorrectly) tarantulas, credited
by some with being poisonous, come into the houses. But they are really not in any way dangerous.
I knew a man who used to keep tarantulas under his mosquito-nets so that they might devour
any stray mosquitoes that got in. The example is hardly worth following. The Australian tarantula,
though innocent of poison, is a horrible object, and would, I think, give you a bad fright
if it flopped on to your face.

Australia is rich in ants. There is one specially vicious ant called the bulldog ant, because
of its pluck. Try to kill the bulldog ant with a stick, and it will face you and try to bite
back until the very last gasp, never thinking of running away. The bulldog ant has a liking
for the careless picnicker, whom she--the male ant, like the male bee, is not a worker--bites
with a fierce energy that suggests to the victim that his flesh is being torn with red-hot
pincers. I have heard it said that but for the fact that Australia is so large an island, a
great proportion of its population would by this time have been lost through bounding into
the surrounding sea when bitten by bulldog ants. It is wise when out for a picnic in Australia
to camp in some spot away from ant-beds, for the ant, being such an industrious creature, seems
to take a malicious delight in spoiling the day for pleasure-seekers.

In one respect, the ant, unwillingly enough, contributes to the pleasure and amusement of the
Australian people. In the dry country it would not be possible to keep grass lawns for tennis.
But an excellent substitute has been found in the earth taken from ant-beds. This earth, which
has been ground fine by the industrious little insects, makes a beautifully firm tennis-court.

It is not possible to leave the ant without mention of the termite, or white ant, which is
very common and very mischievous in most parts of Australia. A colony of termites keeps its
headquarters underground, and from these headquarters it sends out foraging expeditions to
eat up all the wood in the neighbourhood. If you build a house in Australia, you must be very
careful indeed that there is no possibility of the termites being able to get to its timbers.
Otherwise the joists will be eaten, the floors eaten, even the furniture eaten, and one day
everything that is made of wood in the house will collapse. All the mischief, too, will have
been concealed until the last moment. A wooden beam will look to be quite sound when really
its whole heart has been eaten out by the termites. Nowadays the whole area on which a house
is to be raised is covered with cement or with asphalt, and care taken that no timber joists
are allowed to touch the earth and thus give entry to the termites. Fortunately, these destructive
insects cannot burrow through brick or stone.

In the Northern Territory there are everywhere gigantic mounds raised by these termites, long,
narrow, high, and always pointing due north and south. You can tell infallibly the points of
the compass from the mounds of this white ant, which has been called the "meridian termite."

Australia has a wild bee of her own (of course, too, there are European bees introduced by
apiarists, distilling splendid honey from the wild flowers of the continent). The aborigines
had an ingenious way of finding the nests of the wild bee. They would catch a bee, preferably
at some water-hole where the bees went to drink, and fix to its body a little bit of white
down. The bee would be then released, and would fly straight for home, and the keen-eyed black
would be able to follow its flight and discover the whereabouts of its hive--generally in the
hollow of a tree. The Australian black, having found a hive, would kill the bees with smoke
and then devour the whole nest, bees, honeycomb, and honey.

Australian birds are very numerous and very beautiful. The famous bird-of-paradise is found
in several varieties in Papua and other islands along Australia's northern coast. The bird-of-paradise
was threatened with extinction on account of the demand for its plumes for women's hats. So
the Australian Government has recently passed legislation to protect this most beautiful of
all birds, which on the tiniest of bodies carries such wonderful cascades of plumage, silver
white in some cases, golden brown in others.

Some very beautiful parrots flash through the Australian forest. It would not be possible to
tell of all of them. The smallest, which is known as the grass parrakeet, or "the love-bird,"
is about the size of a sparrow. I notice it in England carried around by gipsies and trained
to pick out a card which "tells you your fortune." From that tiny little green bird the range
of parrots runs up to huge fowl with feathers of all the colours of the rainbow. There are
two fine cockatoos also in Australia--the white with a yellow crest, and the black, which has
a beautiful red lining to its sable wings. A flock of black cockatoos in flight gives an impression
of a sunset cloud, its under surface shot with crimson.

Cockatoos can be very destructive to crops, especially to maize, so the farmers have declared
war upon them. The birds seem to be able to hold their own pretty well in this campaign, for
they are of wonderful cunning. When a crowd of cockatoos has designs on a farmer's maize-patch,
the leader seems to prospect the place thoroughly; he acts as though he were a general, providing
a safe bivouac for an army; he sets sentinels on high trees commanding a view of all points
of danger. Then the flock of cockatoos settles on the maize and gorges as fast as it can. If
the farmer or his son tries to approach with a gun, a sentinel cockatoo gives warning and the
whole flock clears out to a place of safety. As soon as the danger is over they come back to
the feast.

Even more cunning is the Australian crow. It is a bird of prey and perhaps the best-hated bird
in the world. An Australian bushman will travel a whole day to kill a crow. For he has, at
the time when the sheep were lambing, or when, owing to drought, they were weak, seen the horrible
cruelties of the crow. This evil bird will attack weak sheep and young lambs, tearing out their
eyes and leaving them to perish miserably. There have even been terrible cases where men lost
in the Bush and perishing of thirst have been attacked by crows and have been found still alive,
but with their eyes gone.

It is no wonder that there is a deadly feud between man and crow. But the crow is so cunning
as to be able to overmatch man's superior strength. A crow knows when a man is carrying a gun,
and will keep out of range then; if a man is without a gun the crow will let him approach quite
near. One can never catch many crows in the same district with the same device; they seem to
learn to avoid what is dangerous. Very rarely can they be poisoned, no matter how carefully
the bait is prepared.

Bushmen tell all sorts of stories of the cunning of the crow. One is that of a man who suffered
severely from a crow's depredations on his chickens. He prepared a poisoned bait and noticed
the bird take it, but not devour it; that crow carefully took the poisoned tit-bit and put
it in front of the man's favourite dog, which ate it, and was with difficulty saved from death!
Another story is that of a man who thought to get within reach of a crow by taking out a gun,
lying down under a tree, and pretending to be dead. True enough, the crow came up and hopped
around, as if waiting for the man to move, and so to see if he were really dead. After awhile,
the crow, to make quite sure, perched on a branch above the man's head and dropped a piece
of twig on to his face! It was at this stage that the man decided to be alive, and, taking
up his gun, shot the crow.

There may be some exaggeration in the bushmen's tales of the crow's cunning, but there is quite
enough of ascertained fact to show that the bird is as devilish in its ingenuity as in its
cruelty. In most parts of Australia there is a reward paid for every dead crow brought into
the police offices. Still, in spite of constant warfare, the bird holds its own, and very rarely
indeed is its nest discovered--a signal proof of its precautions against the enmity of man.

To turn to a more pleasant type of feathered animal. On the whole, the most distinctly Australian
bird is the kookaburra, or "laughing jackass." (A picture of two kookaburras faces page 1 of
this volume. They were drawn for me by a very clever Australian black-and-white artist, Mr.
Norman Lindsay.) The kookaburra is about the size of an owl, of a mottled grey colour. Its
sly, mocking eye prepares you for its note, which is like a laugh, partly sardonic, partly
rollicking. The kookaburra seems to find much grim fun in this world, and is always disturbing
the Bush quiet with its curious "laughter." So near in sound to a harsh human laugh is the
kookaburra's call that there is no difficulty in persuading new chums that the bird is deliberately
mocking them. The kookaburra has the reputation of killing snakes; it certainly is destructive
to small vermin, so its life is held sacred in the Bush. And very well our kookaburra knows
the fact. As he sits on a fence and watches you go past with a gun, he will now and again break
out into his discordant "laugh" right in your face.

The Australian magpie, a black-and-white bird of the crow family, is also "protected," as it
feeds mainly on grubs and insects, which are nuisances to the farmer. The magpie has a very
clear, well-sustained note, and to hear a group of them singing together in the early morning
suggests a fine choir of boys' voices. They will tell you in Australia that the young magpie
is taught by its parents to "sing in tune" in these bird choirs, and is knocked off the fence
at choir practice if it makes a mistake. You may believe this if you wish to. I don't. But
it certainly is a fact that a group of magpies will sing together very sweetly and harmoniously.

One could not exhaust the list of Australian birds in even a big book. But a few more call
for mention. There is the emu, like an ostrich, but with coarse wiry hair. The emu does damage
on the sheep-runs by breaking down the wire fences. (Some say the emu likes fencing wire as
an article of diet; but that is an exaggeration founded on the fact that, like all great birds,
it can and does eat nails, pebbles, and other hard substances, which lodge in its gizzard and
help it to digest its food.) On account of its mischievous habit of breaking fences the emu
is hunted down, and is now fast dwindling. In Tasmania it is altogether extinct. Another danger
to its existence is that it lays a very handsome egg of a dark green colour. These eggs are
sought out for ornaments, and the emu's nest, built in the grass of the plain (for the emu
cannot fly nor climb trees), is robbed wherever found.

The brush turkey of Australia is strange in that it does not take its family duties at all
seriously. The bird does not hatch out its eggs by sitting on them, but builds a mound of decaying
vegetation over the eggs, and leaves them to come out with the sun's heat.

The brolga, or native companion, is a handsome Australian bird of the crane family. It is of
a pretty grey colour, with red bill and red legs. The brolga has a taste for dancing; flocks
of this bird may be seen solemnly going through quadrilles and lancers--of their own invention--on
the plains.

Another strange Australian bird is called the bower-bird, because when a bower-bird wishes
to go courting he builds in the Bush a little pavilion, and adorns it with all the gay, bright
objects he can--bits of rag or metal, feathers from other birds, coloured stones and flowers.
In this he sets himself to dancing until some lady bower-bird is attracted, and they set up
housekeeping together. The bower-bird is credited with being responsible for the discovery
of a couple of goldfields, the birds having picked up nuggets for their bowers, these, discovered
by prospectors, telling that gold was near.

If the bower-bird wishes for wedding chimes to grace his picturesque mating, another bird will
be able to gratify the wish--the bell-bird which haunts quiet, cool glens, and has a note like
a bell, and yet more like the note of one of those strange hallowed gongs you hear from the
groves of Eastern temples. Often riding through the wild Australian Bush you hear the chimes
of distant bells, hear and wonder until you learn that the bell-bird makes the clear, sweet music.

One more note about Australian nature life. In the summer the woods are full of locusts (cicadæ),
which jar the air with their harsh note. The locust season is always a busy one for the doctors.
The Australian small boy loves to get a locust to carry in his pocket, and he has learned,
by a little squeezing, to induce the unhappy insect to "strike up," to the amusing interruption
of school or home hours. Now, to get a locust it is necessary to climb a tree, and Australian
trees are hard to climb and easy to fall out of. So there are many broken limbs during the
locust season. They represent a quite proper penalty for a cruel and unpleasant habit.

CHAPTER V

THE AUSTRALIAN BUSH

    An introduction to an Australian home--Off to a picnic--The
    wattle, the gum, the waratah--The joys of the forest.

The Australian child wakens very often to the fact that "to-day is a holiday." The people of
the sunny southern continent work very hard indeed, but they know that "all work and no play
makes Jack a dull boy"; and Jill a dull girl too. So they have very frequent holidays--far
more frequent than in Great Britain. The Australian child, rising on a holiday morning, and
finding it fine and bright--very rarely is he disappointed in the weather of his sunny climate--gives
a whoop of joy as he remembers that he is going on a picnic into the forest, or the "Bush,"
as it is called invariably in Australia. The whoop is, perhaps, more joyful than it is musical.
The Australian youngster is not trained, as a rule, to have the nice soft voice of the English
child. Besides, the dry, invigorating climate gives his throat a strength which simply must
find expression in loud noise.

Let us follow the Australian child on his picnic and see something of the Australian Bush,
also of an Australian home.

Suppose him starting from Wahroonga, a pretty suburb about ten miles from Sydney, the biggest
city of Australia. Jim lives there with his brothers and sisters and parents in a little villa
of about nine rooms, and four deep shady verandas, one for each side of the house. On these
verandas in summer the family will spend most of the time. Meals will be served there, reading,
writing, sewing done there; in many households the family will also sleep there, the little
couches being protected by nets to keep off mosquitoes which may be hovering about in thousands.
And in the morning, as the sun peeps through the bare beautiful trunks of the white gums, the
magpies will begin to carol and the kookaburras to laugh, and the family will wake to a freshness
which is divine.

Around the house are lawns, of coarser grass than that of England, but still looking smooth
and green, and many flower-beds in which all the flowers of earth seem to bloom. There are
roses in endless variety--Jim's mother boasts that she has sixty-five different sorts--and
some of them are blooming all the year round, so mild is the climate. Phlox, verbenas, bouvardias,
pelargoniums, geraniums, grow side by side with such tropical plants as gardenias, tuberoses,
hibisci, jacarandas, magnolias. In season there are daffodils, and snowdrops, and narcissi,
and dahlias, and chrysanthemums. Recall all the flowers of England; add to them the flowers
of Southern Italy and many from India, from Mexico, from China, from the Pacific Islands, and
you have an idea of the fine garden Jim enjoys.

Beyond the garden is a tennis-court, and around its high wire fences are trained grape-vines
of different kinds, muscatels and black amber and shiraz, and lady's-fingers, which yield splendidly
without any shelter or artificial heat. On the other side of the house is a little orchard,
not much more than an acre, where, all in the open air, grow melons, oranges, lemons, persimmons
(or Japanese plums), apples, pears, peaches, apricots, custard-apples (a curious tropical fruit,
which is soft inside and tastes like a sweet custard), guavas (from which delicious jelly is
made), and also strawberries and raspberries.

The far corner is taken up with a paddock, for the horses are not kept in a stable, night or
day, except occasionally when a very wet, cold night comes.

That is the surrounding of Jim's home. Inside the house there is to-day a great deal of bustle.
Everybody is working--all the members of the family as well as the two maid-servants, for in
Australia it is the rule to do things for yourself and not to rely too much on the labour of
servants (who are hard to get and to keep). Even baby pretends to help, and has to be allowed
to carry about a "billy" to give her the idea that she is useful. This "billy" is a tin pot
in which, later on, water will be boiled over a little fire in the forest, and tea made. Food
is packed up--perhaps cold meats, perhaps chops or steaks which will be grilled in the bush-fire.
Always there are salads, cold fruit pies, home-made cakes, fruit; possibly wine for the elders.
But tea is never forgotten. It would not be a picnic without tea.

Now a drag is driven around to the front gate by the one man-servant of the house, who has
harnessed up the horses and put food for them in the drag. Some neighbours arrive; a picnic
may be made up of just the members of one family, but usually there is a mingling of families,
and that adds to the fun. The fathers of the families, as like as not, ride saddle-horses and
do not join the others in the drag; some of the elder children, too, boys and girls, may ride
their ponies, for in Australia it is common for children to have ponies. The party starts with
much laughter, with inquiries as to the safety of the "billy" and the whereabouts of the matches.
It is a sad thing to go out in the Bush for a picnic and find at the last moment that no one
has any matches with which to light a fire. The black fellows can start a flare by rubbing
two sticks together, but the white man has not mastered that art.

The picnic makes its way along a Bush road four or five miles through pretty orchard country,
given up mostly to growing peaches, grapes, and oranges, the cultivated patches in their bright
colours showing in vivid contrast against the quiet grey-green of the gum-trees. It is spring,
and all the peach-trees are dressed in gay pink bloom, and belts of this colour stretch into
the forest for miles around.

The road leaves the cultivated area. The ground becomes rocky and sterile. The gum-trees still
grow sturdily, but there is no grass beneath; instead a wild confusion of wiry heather-like
brush, bearing all sorts of curious flowers, white, pink, purple, blue, deep brown. One flower
called the flannel-daisy is like a great star, and its petals seem to be cut of the softest
white flannel. The boronia and the native rose compel attention by their piercing, aromatic
perfume, which is strangely refreshing. The exhaling breath of the gum-trees, too, is keen
and exhilarating.

Now the path dips into a little hollow. What is that sudden blaze of glowing yellow? It is
a little clump of wattle-trees, about as big as apple-trees, covered all over with soft flossy
blossom of the brightest yellow. I like to imagine that the wattle is just prisoned sunlight;
that one early morning the sun's rays came stealing over the hill to kiss the wattle-trees
while they seemed to sleep; but the trees were really quite wide-awake, and stretched out their
pretty arms and caught the sunbeams and would never let them go; and now through the winter
the wattles hide the sun rays away in their roots, cuddling them softly; but in spring they
let them come out on the branches and play wild games in the breeze, but will never let them
escape.

Past the little wattle grove there is a hill covered with the white gums. The young bark of
these trees is of a pinky white, like the arms of a baby-girl. As the season advances and the
sun beats more and more fiercely on the trees, the bark deepens in colour into red and brown,
and deep brown-pink. After that the bark dies (in Australia most of the trees shed their bark
and not their leaves), and as it dies strips off and shows the new fair white bark underneath.

Our party has now come to a gully (ravine) which carries a little fresh-water creek (stream)
to an arm of the sea near by. This is the camping-place. A nice soft bit of meadow will be
found in the shade of the hillside. The fresh-water stream will give water for the "billy"
tea and for the horses to drink. Down below a dear little beach, not more than 100 yards long,
but of the softest sand, will allow the youngsters to paddle their feet, but they must not
go in to swim, for fear of sharks. The beach has on each side a rocky, steeply-shelving shore,
and on the rocks will be found any number of fine sweet oysters. Jim and his mate Tom have
brought oyster-knives, and are soon down on the shore, and in a very short while bring, ready-opened,
some dozens of oysters for their mothers and fathers. The girls of the party are quite able
to forage oysters for themselves. Some of them do so; others wander up the sides of the gully
and collect wildflowers for the table, which will not be a table at all, but just a cloth spread
over the grass.

They come back with the news that they have seen waratahs growing. That is exciting enough
to take attention away even from the oysters, for the waratah, the handsomest wildflower of
the world, is becoming rare around the cities. All the party follow the girl guides over a
slope into another gully. There has been a bush-fire in this gully. All the undergrowth has
been burned away, and the trunks of the trees badly charred, but the trees have not been killed.
The gum has a very thick bark, purposely made to resist fire. This bark gets scorched in a
bush-fire, but unless the fire is a very fierce one indeed, the tree is not vitally hurt. Around
the blackened tree-trunks tongues of fire seem to be still licking. At a height of about six
feet from the ground, those scarlet heart-shapes are surely flames? No, they are the waratahs,
which love to grow where there have been bush-fires. The waratah is of a brilliant red colour,
growing single and stately on a high stalk. Its shape is of a heart; its size about that of
a pear. The waratah is not at all a dainty, fragile flower, but a solid mass of bloom like
the vegetable cauliflower; indeed, if you imagine a cauliflower of a vivid red colour, about
the size of a pear and the shape of a heart, growing on a stalk six feet high, you will have
some idea of the waratah.

Two of the flowers are picked--Tim's father will not allow more--and they are brought to help
the decoration of the picnic meal. Carried thus over the shoulder of an eager, flushed child,
the waratah suggests another idea: it represents exactly the thyrsus of the Bacchanals of ancient
legends.

The picnickers find that their appetites have gained zest from the sweet salty oysters. They
are ready for lunch. A fire is started, with great precaution that it does not spread; meat
is roasted on spits (perhaps, too, some fish got from the sea near by); and a hearty, jolly
meal is eaten. Perhaps it would be better to say devoured, for at a picnic there is no nice
etiquette of eating, and you may use your fingers quite without shame as long as you are not
"disgusting." The nearest sister to Jim will tell him promptly if he became "disgusting," but
I can't tell you all the rules. It isn't "disgusting" to hold a chop in your fingers as you
eat it, or to stir your tea with a nice clean stick from a gum tree. But it is "disgusting"
to put your fingers on what anyone else will have to eat, or to cut at the loaf of bread with
a soiled knife. I hope that you will get from this some idea of Australian picnic etiquette.
But you really cannot get any real idea of picnic fun until you have taken your picnic meal
out in the Australian Bush; no description can do justice to that fun. The picnic habit is
not one for children only. The Jim whom we have followed will be still eager for a picnic when
he is the father of a big Jim of his own; that is, if he is the right kind of a human being
and keeps the Australian spirit.

After the midday meal, all sorts of games until the lengthening shadows tell that homeward
time comes near. Then the "billy" is boiled again and tea made, the horses harnessed up and
the picnickers turn back towards civilization. The setting sun starts a beautiful game of shine
and shadow in among the trees of the gum forest; the aromatic exhalations from the trees give
the evening air a hint of balm and spice; the people driving or riding grow a little pensive,
for the spell of the Australian forest, "tender, intimate, spiritual," is upon them. But it
is a pensiveness of pure, quiet joy, of those who have come near to Nature and enjoyed the
peace of her holy places.

       *       *       *       *       *

I took you from near Sydney to see the Australian forest and to learn something of its trees
and flowers, because that part I know best, and its beauties are the typical beauties of the
Bush. Almost anywhere else in the continent where settlement is, something of the same can
be enjoyed. A Hobart picnic-party would turn its face towards Mount Wellington, and after passing
over the foothills devoted to orchards, scale the great gum-forested mountain, and thus have
added to the delights of the woods the beautiful landscape which the height affords. From Melbourne
a party would take train to Fern-tree Gully and picnic among the giant eucalyptus there, or,
without going so far afield, would make for one of the beautiful Hobson's Bay beaches. Farther
north than Sydney, a note of tropical exuberance comes into the forest. You may see a gully
filled with cedars in sweet wealth of lavender-coloured blossom; or with flame trees, great
giants covered all over with a curious flowerlike red coral.

But everywhere in Australia, the hot north and cool south, on the bleak mountains and the sunny
coasts, will be found the gum-tree. It is the national tree of this curious continent, the
oldest and the youngest of the countries of the earth. Some find the gum-tree "dull," because
it has no flaring, flaunting brightness. But it is not dull to those who have eyes to see.
Its spiritual lightness of form, its quiet artistry of colour, weave a spell around those who
have any imagination. Australians abroad, who are Australians (there are some people who, though
they have lived in Australia--perhaps have been born there--are too coarse in fibre to be ever
really Australians), always welcome with gladness the sight of a gum-tree; and Australians
in London sometimes gather in some friend's house for a burning of gum-leaves. In a brazier
the aromatic leaves are kindled, the thin, blue smoke curls up (gum-leaf smoke is somehow different
to any other sort of smoke), and the Australians think tenderly of their far-away home.

One may meet gum-trees in many parts of the world nowadays--in Africa, in America, in Italy
and other parts of Europe; for the gum-tree has the quality of healing marshy soil and banishing
malaria from the air. They are, therefore, much planted for health's sake, and the wandering
Australian meets often his national tree.

A very potent medicine called eucalyptus oil is brewed from gum-leaves, and a favourite Australian
"house-wives'" remedy for rheumatism is a bed stuffed with gum-leaves. So the gum-tree is useful
as well as beautiful.

CHAPTER VI

THE AUSTRALIAN CHILD

    His school and his games--"Bobbies and bushrangers"--Riding to
    school.

Australia is the child among civilized nations, and her life throughout is a good deal like
that of a child in some regards--more gay and free, less weighed down with conventions and
thoughts of rules than the life of an older community. So Australia is a very happy place for
children. There is not so much of the "clean pinny" in life--and what wholesome child ever
really enjoyed the clean pinny and the tidied hair part of life?

But don't run away with the idea that the Australians, either adults or children, are a dirty
people. That would be just the opposite to the truth. Australians are passionately fond of
the bath. In the poorest home there is always a bath-room, which is used daily by every member
of the family. On the sea-coast swimming is the great sport, though it is dangerous to swim
in the harbours because of sharks, and protected baths are provided where you may swim in safety;
still children have to be carefully watched to prevent them from going in for a swim in unsafe
places. The love of the water is greater than the fear of the sharks. The little Australian
is not dirty, but he has a child's love of being untidy, and he can generally gratify it in
his country, where conditions are so free and easy.

I am sorry to say that the Australian child is rather inclined to be a little too "free and
easy" in his manners. The climate makes him grow up more quickly than in Great Britain. He
is more precocious both mentally and physically. At a very early age, he (or she) is entrusted
with some share of responsibility. That is quite natural in a new country where pioneering
work is being done. You will see children of ten and twelve and fourteen years of age taking
quite a part in life, entrusted with some little tasks, and carrying them through in grown-up
fashion. The effect of all this is that in their relations with their parents Australian children
are not so obedient and respectful as they might be. This does not work for any great harm
while the child is young. Up to fifteen or sixteen the son or daughter is perhaps more helpful
and more companionable because of the somewhat relaxed discipline. Certainly the child has
learned more how to use its own judgment. After that age, however, the fact of a loose parental
discipline may come to be an evil. But there is, after all, no need to croak about the Australian
child, who grows up to be a good average sort of woman or man as a general rule.

It is very difficult indeed for a child in Australia to avoid school. Education is compulsory,
the Government providing an elaborate system to see that every child gets at least the rudiments
of education; even in the far back-blocks, where settlement is much scattered, it is necessary
and possible to go to school. The State will carry the children to school on its railways free.
If there is no railway it will send a 'bus round to collect children in scattered localities.
Failing that, in the case of families which are quite isolated, and which are poor, the State
will try to persuade the parents to keep a governess or tutor, and will help to pay the cost
of this. The effect of all this effort is that in Australia almost every child can read and write.

Going to school in the Bush parts of Australia is sometimes great fun. Often the children will
have the use of one of the horses, and on this two, or three, or even four children will mount
and ride off. When the family number more than four, the case calls for a buggy of some sort;
and a child of ten or twelve will be quite safely entrusted with the harnessing of the horse
and driving it to school.

In the school itself, a great effort is made to have the lessons as interesting as possible.
Nature-study is taught, and the children learn to observe the facts about the life in the Bush.
There is a very charming writer about Australian children, Ethel Turner, who in one of her
stories gives a picture of a little Bush school in one of the most dreary places in Australia--a
little township out on the hot plains. I quote a little of it to show the sort of spirit which
animates the school-teachers of Australia:

"A new teacher had been appointed to the half-time school, which was all the Government could
manage for so unimportant and dreary a place. His name was Eagar, and his friends said that
he suited the sound of it. Alert of eye, energetic in movement, it may be safely said that
in his own person was stored up more motive power than was owned conjointly by the two hundred
odd souls who comprised the population of Ninety Mile.

"There was room in Ninety Mile for an eager person. In fact, a dozen such would have sufficed
long since to have carried it clean off its feet, and to have deposited it in some more likely
position. But everyone touched in any way with the fire of life had long since departed from
the place, and gone to set their homesteads and stackyards, their shops or other businesses
elsewhere. So there were only a few limpets, who clung tenaciously to their spot, assured that
all other spots on the globe were already occupied; and a few absolutely resigned persons.
There is no clog on the wheel of progress that may be so absolutely depended upon to fulfil
its purpose as resignation.

"It was to this manner of a village that Eagar came. In a month he had established a cricket
club; in two months a football club. The establishment of neither was attended with any great
difficulty. In three months he had turned his own box of books into a free circulating library,
and many of his leisure hours went in trying to induce the boys to borrow from him, and in
seeing to it that, having borrowed, they actually read the books chosen.

"But his success with this was doubtful. The boys regarded 'Westward Ho!' as a home-lesson,
while the 'Three Musketeers' set fire to none of them. Even 'Treasure Island' left most of
them cold; though Eagar, reading it aloud, had tried to persuade himself that little Rattray
had breathed a trifle quicker as the blind man's stick came tap tapping along the road. The
sea was nothing but a name to the whole number of scholars (eighteen of them, boys and girls
all told). Not one of them had pierced past the township that lay ninety miles away to the
right of them; indeed, half the number had never journeyed beyond Moonee, where the coach finished
its journey.

"Eagar got up collections--moths, butterflies, birds' eggs; he tried to describe museums, picture-galleries,
and such, to his pupils. At that time he had no greater wish on earth than to have just enough
money to take the whole school to Sydney for a week, and see what a suddenly widened horizon
would do for them all. Had his salary come at that time in one solid cheque for the whole year,
there is no knowing to what heights of recklessness he would have mounted, but the monthly
driblets keep the temptation far off.

"One morning he had a brilliant notion. In another week or two the yearly 'sweep' fever for
far-distant races would attack the place, and the poorest would find enough to take a part
at least in a ticket.

"He seized a piece of paper, and instituted what he called 'Eagar's Consultation.' He explained
that he was out to collect sixty shillings. Sixty shillings, he explained, would pay the fare-coach
and train--to Sydney of one schoolboy, give him money in his pocket to see all the sights,
and bring him back the richer for life for the experience, and leaven for the whole loaf of them.

"'Which schoolboy?' said Ninety Mile doubtfully, expecting to be met with 'top boy.' And never
having been 'top boy' itself at any time of its life, it had but a distrustful admiration for
the same.

"'We must draw lots,' said Eagar.

"Upon which Ninety Mile, being attracted by the sporting element in the affair, slowly subscribed
its shilling a-piece, and the happy lot fell to Rattray.

"He was a sober, freckled little fellow of ten, who walked five miles into Ninety Mile every
morning, and five miles back again at night all the six months of the year during which Government
held the cup of learning there for small drinkers to sip."

I need not quote further about young Rattray's trip to Sydney and to the great ocean which
Bush children, seeing for the first time, often think is just a big dam built up by some great
squatter to hold water for his sheep. That extract shows the Bush school at its very hardest
in the hot back-country. Of course, not one twentieth of the population lives in such places.
I must give you a little of a description of a day in a Bush school in Gippsland, by E. S.
Emerson, to correct any impression that all Australia, or even much of it, is like Ninety Mile:

"A rough red stave in a God-writ song was the narrow, water-worn Bush track, and the birds
knew the song and gloried in it, and the trees gave forth an accompaniment under the unseen
hands of the wind until all the hillside was a living melody. Child voices joined in, and presently
from a bend in the track, 'three ha'pence for tuppence, three ha'pence for tuppence,' came
a lumbering old horse, urged into an unwonted canter. Three kiddies bestrode the ancient, and
as they swung along they sang snatches of Kipling's 'Recessional,' to an old hymn-tune that
lingers in the memory of us all. As they drew near to me the foremost urchin suddenly reined
up. The result was disastrous, for the ancient 'propped,' and the other two were emptied out
on the track. From the dust they called their brother many names that are not to be found in
school books; but he, laughing, had slid down and was cutting a twig from a neighbouring tree.
'A case-moth! A case-moth!' he cried. The fallen ones scrambled to their feet. 'What sort,
Teddy? What sort?' they asked eagerly.

"But Teddy had caught sight of me.

"'Well, what will you do with that?' I asked.

"'Take it to school, sir; teacher tells us all about them at school.' The answer was spoken
naturally and without any trace of shyness.

"'Did you learn that hymn you were singing at school, too?'

"''Tain't a hymn, sir. It's the "Recessional"!' This, proudly, from the youngest.

"But they had learned it at school, and when I had given them a leg-up and stood watching them
urge the ancient down the hillside, I made up my mind that I would visit the school where the
teacher told the scholars all about case-moths and taught them to sing the 'Recessional'; and
a morning or two later I did.

"The school stands on the skirt of a thinly-clad Gippsland township, and is attended by from
forty to fifty children. Fronting it is a garden--a sloping half-acre set out into beds, many
of which are reserved for native flowering plants and trees. School is not 'in' yet, and a
few early comers are at work on the beds, which are dry and dusty from a long, hot spell. Little
tots of six and seven years stroll up and watch the workers, or romp about on grass plots in
close proximity. Presently the master's voice is heard. 'Fall in!' There is a gathering up
of bags, a hasty shuffling of feet, the usual hurry-scurry of laggards, and in a few moments
two motionless lines stand at attention. 'Good-morning, girls! Good-morning, boys!' says the
master. A chorused 'Good-morning, Mr. Morgan!' returns his salutation, and then the work of
the day begins.

"But do the scholars look upon it as work? But under our modern educational system the teacher
can make the school work practically a labour of love.

"The morning being bright, the children are put through some simple exercises and encouraged
to take a few 'deep breathings.' Then the lines are formed again. 'Left turn! Quick march!'
and the scholars file into the schoolhouse."

But we need not follow the school in its day's work, except to say that the ideal always is
to make the work alive and interesting. Naturally, Australian children get to like school.

In the cities the schools are very good. All the State schools are absolutely free, and even
books are provided. A smart child can win bursaries, and go from the primary school to the
high school, and then on to the University, and win to a profession without his education costing
his parents anything at all. When I was a boy the State of Tasmania used to send every year
two Tasmanian scholars to Oxford University, giving them enough to pay for a course there.
That has since been stopped, but many Australians come to British Universities now--mostly
to Oxford and Edinburgh--with money provided by their parents. There are, however, excellent
Universities in the chief cities of Australia, and there is no actual need to leave the Commonwealth
to complete one's education.

In the Bush, and indeed almost everywhere--for there is no city life which has not a touch
of the Bush life--Australian children grow to be very hardy and very stoical. They can endure
great hardship and great pain. I remember hearing of a boy in the Maitland (N.S.W.) district
whose horse stumbled in a rabbit-hole and fell with him. The boy's thigh was broken and the
horse was prostrate on top of him, and did not seem to wish to move. The boy stretched out
his hand and got a stick, with which he beat the horse until it rose, keeping the while a hold
of the reins. Then, with his broken thigh, that boy mounted the horse (which was not much hurt),
rode home, and read a book whilst waiting for the doctor to come and set his limb. Another
boy I knew in Australia was bitten by a snake on the finger; with his blunt pocket-knife he
cut the finger off and walked home. He suffered no ill effects from the snake-poison.

Endurance of hardship and pain is taught by the life of the Australian Bush. It is no place
for the cowardly or for the tender. You must learn to face and to subdue Nature.

The games of the Australian child are just the British games, changed a little to meet local
conditions. A very favourite game is that of "Bushrangers and Bobbies" ("bobbies" meaning policemen).
In this the boys imitate as nearly as they can the old hunting down of the bushrangers by the
mounted police.

The bushranger made a good deal of exciting history in Australia. Generally he was a scoundrel
of the lowest type, an escaped murderer who took to the Bush to escape hanging, and lived by
robbery and violence. But a few--a very few--were rather of the type of the English Robin Hood
or the Scotch Rob Roy, living a lawless life, but not being needlessly cruel. It is those few
who have given basis to the tradition of the Australian bushranger as a noble and chivalrous
fellow who only robbed the rich (who, people argue, could well afford to be robbed), and who
atoned for that by all sorts of kindness to the poor. Many books have been written on this
tradition, glorifying the bushranger. But the plain fact is that most of the bushrangers were
infamous wretches for whom hanging was a quite inadequate punishment.

The bushranger, as a rule, was an escaped convict or a criminal fleeing from justice. Sometimes
he acted singly, sometimes he had a gang of followers. A cave in some out-of-the-way spot,
good horses and guns, were his necessary equipment. The site of the cave was important. It
needed to be near a coaching-road, so that the bushranger's headquarters should be near to
his place of business, which was to stick-up mail-coaches and rob them of gold, valuables,
weapons, and ammunition. It also needed to be in a position commanding a good view, and with
more than one point of entrance. Two bushrangers' caves I remember well, one near to Armidale,
on the great northern high-road. It was at the top of a lofty hill, commanding a wide view
of the country. There was no outward sign of a cave even to the close observer. A great granite
hill seemed to be crowned with just loose boulders. But in between those boulders was a winding
passage which gave entrance to a big cave with a little fresh-water stream. A man and his horse
could take shelter there.

Another famous bushranger's cave was near Medlow, on the Blue Mountains (N.S.W.), in a position
to command the Great Western Road, along which the gold from Lambing Flat and Sofala had to
go to Sydney. This was quite a perfect cave for its purpose. Climbing down a mountain gully,
you came to its end, apparently, in a stream of water gushing from out a wall of rock. But
behind that rock was a narrow passage leading to a cave which opened out into a little valley
with another stream, and some good grass-land. To this valley the only means of access was
the secret passage through the cave, which allowed a man and his horse to pass through. A gang
of bushrangers kept this eyrie for many years undiscovered.

The latest big gang of bushrangers were the Kelly brothers, who infested Victoria. Ned Kelly
was famous because he wore a suit of armour sufficiently strong to resist the rifle bullet
of that day. The Kellys were finally driven to cover in a little country hotel in Victoria.
They held the place against a siege by the police until the police set fire to it. Some of
the gang perished in the flames. Others, including Ned Kelly himself, broke out and were shot
or captured. He was hanged in Melbourne gaol.

But this is getting far away from the Australian children's games. It is a curious fact that
when the Australian children assemble to play "Bushrangers and Bobbies," everybody wants to
be a bushranger, and the guardian of the law is looked upon as quite an inferior character.
Lots decide, however, the cast. The bushrangers sally forth and stick up an imaginary coach,
or rob an imaginary country bank. The "bobbies" go in pursuit, and there is a desperate mock
battle, which allows of much yelling and running about, and generally causes great joy.

"Camping out" is another characteristic amusement of the Australian child. In his school holidays,
parties go out, sometimes for weeks at a time, sailing around the reaches of the sea inlets,
or, inland, following the course of some river, and hunting kangaroos and other game as they
go. Generally adults accompany these parties, but when an Australian boy has reached the age
of fifteen or sixteen he is credited with being able to look after himself, and is trusted
to sail a boat and to carry a firearm. I can remember once on the way down to National Park
(N.S.W.) for the Field Artillery camp, at one of the suburban stations there broke into the
carriage reserved for officers, with a cheerful impudence that defied censure, a little band
of boys. They had not a shoe among them, nor had anyone a whole suit of clothes. But they carried
proudly fishing tackle and some rags of canvas which would help, with boughs, to build a rough
shelter hut. The remainder of the train being full, they invaded the officers' carriage and
made themselves comfortable. They were out for a few days' "camp" in the National Park. For
about ten shillings they would hire a rowing-boat for three days. Railway fares would be sixpence
or ninepence per head. A good deal of their food they would catch with fishing lines; bread,
jam, a little bacon, and, of course, the "billy" and its tea were brought with them. This was
the great yearly festival, planned probably for many weeks beforehand, calling for much thought
for its accomplishment, showing the sturdy spirit which is characteristic of the young Australian.

All the usual British games are played in Australia: tops, hoops, marbles among the younger
children; cricket, football, lawn-tennis among their elders. The climate is especially suited
for cricket, as it is warm and bright and sunny for so long a term of the year. On a holiday
in the parks around the Australian cities may be seen many hundreds of cricket matches. All
the schools have their teams. Most of the shops and factories keep up teams among the employees.
These teams play in competitions with all the earnestness of big cricket. As the players grow
better they join the electorate clubs. In every big parliamentary division there is an electorate
club, made up of residents in that electorate. The club may put into the field as many as four
teams in a day--its senior team and three junior teams. So there is an enormous amount of play--real
serious match play--every Saturday afternoon and public holiday. Australia thus trains some
of the finest cricketers of the world. For some years now (1911) the Australian Eleven has
held the championship of the world.

The Australian child of the poorer classes usually leaves school at fourteen. The children
of the richer may stay at school and the University until nineteen or twenty. Usually they
launch out into life by then. Australia is a young country, and its conditions call for young work.

       *       *       *       *       *

That finishes this "Peep at Australia." I have tried to give the young readers some little
indication of what features of Australian life will most interest them. The picture is of a
land which appeals very strongly to the adventurous type of the Anglo-Celtic race. I have never
yet met a British man or boy who was of the right manly type who did not love Australian life
after a little experience. The great distances, the cheery hospitality, the sunny climate,
the sense of social freedom, the generous return which Nature gives to the man who offers her
honest service--all these appeal and make up the sum of that strong attraction Australia has
to her own children and to colonists from the Motherland.

