HOW TO MAKE RUGS

How to Make Rugs

By

CANDACE WHEELER

Author of "Principles of Home Decoration," etc.

ILLUSTRATED

NEW YORK DOUBLEDAY, PAGE & COMPANY 1908

Copyright, 1900 By CANDACE WHEELER

Copyright, 1902 By DOUBLEDAY, PAGE & CO.

Published October, 1902

CONTENTS

FOREWORD: HOME INDUSTRIES AND DOMESTIC MANUFACTURES.

CHAPTER

   I.   RUG WEAVING.                       19

  II.   THE PATTERN.                       33

 III.   DYEING.                            45

  IV.   INGRAIN CARPET RUGS.               57

   V.   WOVEN RAG PORTIERES.               67

  VI.   WOOLEN RUGS.                       79

 VII.   COTTON RUGS.                       99

VIII.   LINSEY WOOLSEY.                   113

NEIGHBOURHOOD INDUSTRIES: AFTER WORD.     125

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

Loom Warped for Weaving             Frontispiece

                                       FACING PAGE

Weaving                                         20

The Onteora Rug                                 36

The Lois Rug                                    52

Sewed Fringe for Woven Portiere                 72

Knotted Warp Fringe for Woven Table-cover       72

Isle La Motte Rug                               90

Greek Border in Red and Black                  108

Braided and Knotted Fringe                     108

Diamond Border in Red and Black                108

The Lucy Rug                                   128

FOREWORD.

HOME INDUSTRIES AND DOMESTIC MANUFACTURES.

The subject of Home Industries is beginning to attract the attention of those who are interested
in political economy and the general welfare of the country, and thoughtful people are asking
themselves why, in all the length and breadth of America, there are no well-established and
prosperous domestic manufactures.

We have no articles of use or luxury made in homes which are objects of commercial interchange
or sources of family profit. To this general statement there are but few exceptions, and curiously
enough these are, for the most part, in the work of our native Indians.

A stranger in America, wishing--after the manner of travelers--to carry back something characteristic
of the country, generally buys what we call "Indian curiosities"--moccasins, baskets, feather-work,
and the one admirable and well-established product of Indian manufacture, the Navajo blanket.
But these hardly represent the mass of our people.

We may add to the list of Indian industries, lace making, which is being successfully taught
at some of the reservations, but as it is not as yet even a self-supporting industry, the above-named
"curiosities" and the Navajo blanket stand alone as characteristic hand-work produced by native
races; while from our own, or that of the co-existent Afro-American, we have nothing to show
in the way of true domestic manufactures.

When we contrast this want of production with the immense home product of Europe, Asia, parts
of Africa, and South America--and even certain islands of the Southern Seas--we cannot help
feeling a sort of dismay at the contrast; and it is only by a careful study of the conditions
which have made the difference that we become reassured. It is, in fact, our very prosperity,
the exceptionally favourable circumstances which are a part of farming life in this country,
which has hitherto diverted efforts into other channels.

These conditions did not exist during the early days of America, and we know that while there
was little commercial exchange of home commodities, many of the arts which are used to such
profitable purpose abroad existed in this country and served greatly to modify home expenses
and increase home comforts. To account for the cessation of these household industries, it
is only necessary to notice the drift of certain periods in the short history of America's
settlement and development.

We shall see that the decline of domestic manufactures in New England and the Middle States
was coincident with two rapidly increasing movements, one of which was the opening and settlement
of the great West, and the other the establishment of cotton and woolen mills throughout the
country.

In short, the abundant acreage of Western lands, fertile beyond the dreams of New England or
Old World tillers, threw the entire business of production or family support upon the man.
The profit of his easily acquired farm land was so great and certain that it became almost
a reproach to him to have his womenkind busy themselves with other than necessary household duties.

The cotton and woolen mills stood ready to supply the needed material for clothing, and it
was positive economy to push the spinning-wheel out of sight under the garret eaves and chop
up the bulky loom for firewood. The wife and daughters might reputably cook and clean for the
men whose business it was to cover the black acres with golden wheat, but spinning and weaving
were decidedly unfashionable occupations. Even the emigrants from countries where the spinning
and weaving habit was an inheritance as well as a necessity, were governed by the custom of
the country, and devoted the entire energy of the family to the raising of crops.

It is, in fact, owing to fortunate circumstances that, if we except the mountain regions of
the South, there are no longer farmhouse or domestic manufactures in America.

This, as I have said, only goes to prove the hitherto unexampled prosperity of the country.
In fact, the absence of these very industries means that there are greater sources of profit
within the reach of farming households.

This being so, it is natural to ask, why the re-establishment of farmhouse manufactures, or
the encouragement and development of them, is a desirable movement.

There are exceedingly good individual and personal reasons; and there are also commercial and
national ones, which should not be ignored.

All farmers are not successful. There are many poor as well as rich ones; and the wife of a
poor farmer has less pecuniary independence, less money to spend, and fewer ways of gaining
it, than any other woman of equal education and character in America.

A poor farmer is often obliged to pay out for labour, fencing, stock, insurance and taxes every
dollar gained by the sale of his crops, and if by good luck or good management there should
be a small excess, he is apt to hoard it against unlooked-for emergencies. This, at first enforced
economy, grows to be the habit of his life, so that even if he becomes well-to-do, or even
rich, he distrusts exceedingly the wisdom of any expenditure save his own.

A mechanic, or a man in any small line of business, must trust his wife with the disbursement
of a certain part of the family income. It passes through her hands in the way of housekeeping,
and the management of it exercises and develops her faculties; but the wife of the farmer has
no such interest. The farm is expected to supply the family living, and this blessed fact becomes
almost a curse when it deprives the wife of the mental stimulus incident to the management
of resources.

Added to this there is often, at least through the winter, partial or complete isolation from
neighbourly or public interests. The great crops of the country are produced under circumstances
which necessitate distance from even the most limited social centres, and that the farmer's
wife suffers from this we know, not only from observation, but from the statistics of insane
asylums. And here I am tempted to quote from a letter of a close student of farmhouse life
in the West. She writes:

"That the farmer himself, as isolated and hard worked, makes no such record, I believe due
to the mental tonic, the broadening influence that comes from a sense of responsibility in
life's larger affairs. The woman works like a machine, irresponsible as to final results; the
man like a thinking, planning, responsible, independent human being."

This seems to me a very fair statement of the case. The woman, who misses social companionship,
and who has not the saving influence of administration and responsibility even in her own household,
is narrowed to a very small point in life's affairs, and it is inevitable that she should suffer
from it. The variety of her work also has dwindled. Cooking and house-cleaning follow each
other in monotonous routine, with too much of it at planting and harvest seasons and too little
at others. She has not even the pleasure of comparison and emulation in her daily work; it
neither exercises her faculties nor stimulates her thought.

During the winter months she has abundant leisure for a harvest of her own, in some interesting
manufacture adapted to her education and circumstances, and in the prosecution of these she
would be brought into a bond of common interest with other women. So far I have spoken only
of the individual and personal reasons for which certain domestic and artistic industries well
might be encouraged; but the public and economic reasons are easy to find.

In looking at the variety and bulk of our national imports, we may be surprised to see how
large a proportion of them are of domestic origin. In fact, nearly everything which comes under
the head of artistic products is the result of domestic industry. The beauty and simplicity
of many of these things is surprising, and yet they have required neither unusual talent or
careful training. They are simply the result of the habit of production, and their value is
in the personal expression we find in them. They have always this advantage over mechanical
manufacture, and can be safely relied upon to find a market in the face of close mechanical
imitation.

Among these domestic products we shall find the laces of all countries, Ireland, Belgium, France,
Italy, Sweden and Russia contributing this beautiful manufacture, from finest to coarsest quality.
It is as common a process as knitting in the homes of many countries, and the fact of it being
successfully taught in the Indian cabins of the far West proves that it is not a difficult
accomplishment. Embroideries, in all countries but our own, are common and profitable home
productions; and when we come to hand-weavings the variety is infinite. In practical England,
the value of hand-weavings in linens has led to the introduction of small "parlour looms" from
Sweden; and damasks of special designs are woven for special customers who appreciate their
charm and worth.

Of all hand processes, weaving is the most generally or widely applicable, and the range of
beautiful production possible to the simplest weaving is almost beyond calculation.

Many of the costly Eastern rugs are as simply woven as a Navajo blanket, or even a rag carpet.
The process is in many cases almost identical, the variation being only in closeness or fineness
of warp and arrangement of colour.

I have been much interested of late in an application of art to a local industry in New Hampshire.
It is one which seems to prevail to a greater or less degree all through New England, and the
product is called "pulled rugs." The process consists of drawing finely cut rags through some
loose, strong cloth, mainly bagging or burlap. I have seen these rugs at Bar Harbor and along
the Massachusetts coast for many years, and while they possessed the merit of durability, they
were, for the most part, so ugly and unattractive that only the most sympathetic personal interest
in the maker would induce one to purchase them. The change that has been wrought in this manufacture
by an intelligent application of art is really marvelous. The product came under the attention
of a woman trained in that valuable school, "The Institute of Artist Artisans." She tried the
experiment of using new material carefully dyed to follow certain Oriental designs, and the
result is a smooth, velvety, thick-piled rug, which cannot be distinguished from a fine Oriental
rug of the same pattern. The cost of this manufacture is necessarily considerable, since the
process is slow and the material costly. But in spite of these disadvantages, the drawn rugs
have met with deserved favour, and are a source of profitable labour to the community. It is
undoubtedly the beginning of an important industry, which owes its success entirely to the
art education of one woman.

There is an improvement somewhat akin to this in the weaving of rag-carpet rugs, and this is
not confined to one locality. It consists in the use of new rags, carefully selected as to
colour both of rags and warp, and the result is surprisingly good.

One might say that we have in this country peculiar advantages for positive artistic excellence
as well as volume of production. We grow our own wool and cotton. We have a great and growing
population, with such application of mechanical invention to routine and necessary work as
greatly to reduce household labour. Added to this, there has been during the last ten years
so much and such general art study as to have created a sort of diffused love of art manufactures,
so that many of the people who would naturally adopt the work would have an instructive judgment
regarding it. I should not be afraid to predict great and even peculiar excellence in any domestic
manufacture which became the habit of any given locality.

The subject of our domestic industries is one which should fall naturally within the objects
of women's clubs. If every woman's club in the country chose from its members those who by
artistic instinct or education, and the possession of practical ability, were fitted to lead
in the work, and made of them a committee on home industries, the reports from it would soon
become a matter of absorbing interest to the club, and the productions made under the protection,
so to speak, of the club, would have an advantage that any commercial business would consider
invaluable. Neither would the advantage be limited by the interest of a single club. That great
social engine, "The Federation of Women's Clubs," can wield an almost magical power in the
creation of interests or encouragement of effort, and the federation of organizations, each
one exchanging experiences as well as products, would be an ideal means of growth and extension.

The machinery for the work exists in almost every county of every State of the Union, and with
the threefold interest of the promotion of practical art, that of increased manufacture, and
the extension of that sisterhood which is one of the most Christian-like and desirable aims
of women's clubs, it would seem a natural and congenial effort.

The best results of this general awakening will probably be in the South. Certainly no conditions
could be more favourable than those existing in the Cumberland Mountains, where wool and cotton
grown upon the rough farms are habitually spun and woven and dyed in the home cabin. The dyes
are often made from walnut bark, pokeberry, and certain nuts and roots which have been found
capable of "fast" stain and are easily procured. Unfortunately, the facility with which aniline
dyes can be used is not unknown. The "linsey woolsey," which is not only a common manufacture
in the farmhouses, but the common wear of both men and women, is an interesting and good manufacture,
capable of much wider use than it enjoys at present.

And linsey woolsey is not the only home weaving done in the Cumberland Mountains. The showing
of cotton homespun towel weaving at the Atlanta Exposition was a feature of the Exposition,
and the homespun blankets of the various kinds which one finds in common use are only a step
removed from the process of the admirable Navajo blanket.

We see from these different possibilities and indications, that although we are still a people
without true home productions, there is every reason to believe that this condition will not
be a lasting one, and that before many years we shall find the special advantages and general
cultivation of the country have not only produced but given character to a large domestic manufacture.

CHAPTER I.

RUG WEAVING.

Rag carpets have been made and used in farmhouses for many generations, but it is only of late
that there has been a general demand in all country houses for home-made piazza rugs, bedroom
rugs, and rugs for general use.

It has been found that the best and most durable rugs for these purposes, and for bath-rooms
for town and city houses, can be made of cotton or woolen rags sewed and woven in the regular
old-fashioned rag-carpet way, the difference being--and it is rather a large difference--that
the rags must be new instead of old, and that the colors must be good and carefully chosen
instead of being used indiscriminately, and in addition to this it must be woven in two-yard
lengths, with a border and fringe at either end. This being done, good, attractive and salable
rugs can be made of almost any color, and suitable for many purposes. It is an industry perfectly
adapted to farmhouse conditions, and if well followed out would make a regular income for the
women of the family.

The cumbrous old wooden loom is still doing a certain amount of work in nearly every country
neighbourhood, and it is capable of a greatly enlarged and much more profitable practice. I
find very little if any difference in the rugs woven upon these and the modern steel loom.
It is true that the work is lighter and weaving goes faster upon the latter, and where a person
or family makes an occupation of weaving it is probably better to have the latest improvements;
but it is possible to begin and to make a success of rag rug weaving upon an old-fashioned
loom, and as a rule old-fashioned weavers have little to learn in new methods.

This small book is intended as a help in adapting their work to modern demands, as well as
to open a new field to the farmer's family during the winter months, when their time is not
necessarily occupied with growing and securing crops.

It does not undertake to teach any one who buys or has inherited a loom to begin weaving without
any further preparation. The warping or threading of it must be seen to be understood, but
when that is once learned, all of the rest is a matter of practice and experiment, and is really
no more difficult than any other domestic art. One would not expect to spin without being shown
how to pull the wool and turn the wheel at the same time, or even to sew or knit without some
sort of instruction, and the same is true of weaving.

There are many old looms still to be found in the garrets of farmhouses, and where one has
been inherited it is best to begin learning to weave upon it instead of substituting a new
one, since the same knowledge answers for both. Probably some older member of the family, or
at least some old neighbour, will be able to teach the new beginner how to set up the loom
and to proceed from that to actual weaving. After this is learned it rests with one's self
to become a good weaver, a practical dyer, and to put colors together which are both harmonious
and effective.

What I have chiefly tried to show is how to get proper materials and how to use them to the
best advantage. I think it is safe to say that no domestic art is capable of such important
results from a pecuniary point of view, or so important an extension in the direction of practical
art. Where it is used as an art-process and an interesting occupation, by women of leisure,
it is capable of the finest results, and there is no reason why these results should not become
a matter of business profit.

Rag carpets have generally been woven of rags cut from any old garments cast aside by the household--coats
and trousers too old for patching, sheets and pillow-cases too tender to use, calico, serge,
bits of woolen stuffs old and new, went into the carpet basket, to be cut or torn into strips,
sewed indiscriminately together, and rolled into balls until there should be enough of them
for the work of the loom. When this time came the loom would be warped with white cotton or
purple yarn, dyed with "sugar paper" or logwood, and the carpet woven. Even with this entire
carelessness as to any other result than that of a useful floor covering, the rag carpet, with
its "hit or miss" mixture, was not a bad thing; and a very small degree of attention has served
to give it a respectable place in domestic manufactures. But it is capable of being carried
much farther; in fact, I know of no process which can so easily be made to produce really good
and beautiful results as rag carpet weaving.

The first material needed is what are called carpet warps, and these can be purchased in different
weights and sizes and more or less reliable colours in every country store, this fact alone
showing the prevalence of home weaving, since the yarns are not--at least to my knowledge--used
for any other purpose.

The cost of warp, dyed or undyed, depends upon the quantity required, or, in other words, upon
its being purchased at wholesale or retail. At retail it costs twenty cents per pound, and
at wholesale sixteen. To buy of a wholesale dealer one must be able to order at least a hundred
pounds, and as this would weave but a hundred and fifty rugs it would not be too large a quantity
to have on hand for even a moderate amount of weaving. These prices refer only to ordinary
cotton warps, and not to fine "silk finish," to linen, or even to silk ones, each of which
has its special use and price.

In all of them fast colour is a most desirable quality, and, indeed, for truly good work a
necessity. I have found but two of the colours which are upon ordinary sale to be reasonably
fast, and those are a very deep red and the ordinary orange. The latter will run when dipped
in water; in fact, it will give out dye to such good purpose that I have sometimes used the
water in which it has been steeped to dye cotton rags, as it gives a very good and quite fast
lemon yellow.

It follows, then, that in weaving rugs (which must be washable) with orange warp, the warp
must be steeped in warm water before using. It can be used in that state, or it can be set
with alum, or it can be dipped in a thin indigo dye and made into a good and fast green.

The only recourse of the domestic weaver who wishes to establish her rugs as of the very best
make is to dye her own warps; and this is not only an easy but a most interesting process;
so much so, in fact, that I am tempted to enlarge upon it as a practical study for the young
people of the family. It is necessary at the very beginning to put much stress upon the value
of fast colour in the warping yarn, since a faded warp will entirely neutralize the colour
of the rags, and spoil the beauty of the most successful rug.

The most necessary and widely applicable colour needed in warps, or, indeed, in rags, is a
perfectly fast blue in different depths, and this can only be secured by indigo. Aniline blue
in cotton is never sun-fast and rarely will stand washing, but a good indigo blue will neither
run or fade, and is therefore precisely what is needed for domestic manufacture. Fortunately,
the dye-tub has been, in the past at least, a close companion of the loom, and most old-fashioned
farmers' wives know how to use it. With this one can command reliable blue warps of all shades;
and when we come to directions for making washable rugs its importance will be seen.

As I have said, by dipping orange warp in medium indigo blue a fast and vivid green can be
secured, and these two tints, together with orange and red, give as many colours as one needs
for rug weaving; they give, in fact, a choice of five colours--orange, red, blue, green and
white. Orange and red are both colours which can be relied upon when prepared from the ordinary
"Magic" dyes of commerce. Turkey red especially is safe to last, even when applied to cotton.
In the general disapproval of mineral dyes, this one may certainly be excepted, as well as
the crimson red known as "cardinal," which is both durable and beautiful, in silk or woolen
fibre or texture.

After good warps are secured, the second material needed is filling; and here the subject of
old and new rags is to be considered. Of course, cloth which has served other purposes, as
in sheets, pillow-cases, curtains, dress skirts, etc., is still capable of prolonged wear when
the thin parts are removed and those which are fairly strong are folded and bunched into carpet
filling; and for family use, or limited sale, such rags--dyed in some colour--are really desirable.
Good varieties of washable rugs can be made of half-worn cotton without dyeing (although they
will not be as durable as if made from unworn muslin) by using blue warps to white fillings.
The colour effects and methods of weaving will be the same whether old or new rags are used;
but in making a study of rag rug weaving from the point of view of building up an important
industry, it is necessary to consider only the use of new rags and how to procure the best
of them at the cheapest rates.

There is a certain amount of what is called waste in all cloth mills, either cotton, wool or
silk, and also in the manufacture of every kind of clothing. The waste from cotton mills, consisting
for the most part of "piece ends," imperfect beginnings or endings, which must be torn off
when the piece is made up, are exactly suitable for carpet weaving; and, in fact, if made for
the purpose could hardly be better. These can be bought for from ten to twelve cents per pound.
The same price holds for ginghams and for coloured cottons of various sorts.

Cutting from shirt-making and clothing establishments are not as good. In shirt cuttings the
cloth varies a good deal in thickness, and, in addition to this disadvantage, cannot be torn
into strips, many of the pieces being bias, and therefore having to be cut. It is true that
while this entails additional use of time in preparation, bias rags are a more elastic filling
than straight ones, and if uniformly and carefully cut and sewed a rug made from them is worth
more and will probably sell for more than one made of straight rags.

Shirt cuttings sell for about three cents per pound, and while a proportion of them are too
small for use and would have to be re-sold for paper rags, the cost of material for cotton
rugs would still be very trifling. Suitable woolen rags from the mills sell for twenty-five
cents per pound. Tailors' and dressmakers' cuttings are much cheaper, and very advantageous
arrangements can be made with large establishments if one is prepared to take all they have
to offer.

One difficulty with woolen rags from tailoring establishments is in the sombreness of the colours;
but much can be done by judicious sorting and sewing of the rags, for it is astonishing how
bits of every conceivable colour will melt together when brought into a mixed mass; also if
they are woven upon a red warp the effect is brightened.

Having secured materials of different kinds, the next step is in the cutting and sewing, and
here also new methods must step in.

The old-fashioned way of sewing carpet rags--that is, simply tacking them together with a large
needle and coarse thread--will not answer at all in this new development of rug making. The
filling must be smooth, without lumps or rag ends, and the joinings absolutely fast and fairly
inconspicuous. Some of the new rags from cotton or woolen mills come in pieces from a quarter
to a half-yard in length and the usual width of the cloth. These can be sewed together on the
sewing machine, lapping and basting them before sewing. They should lap from a quarter to a
half inch and have two sewings, one at either edge of the lap. If sewed in this way they can
afterward be torn into strips, using the scissors to cut across seams. It can be performed
very speedily when one is accustomed to it, and is absolutely secure, so that no rag ends can
ever be seen in the finished weaving.

If the cloth pieces which are to be used for rags are not wide enough to sew on the sewing
machine, they should be lapped and sewed by hand in the same way, unless they happen to have
selvedge ends, in which case they should by all means be strongly overhanded. This makes the
best possible joining, as it is no thicker than the rest of the rag filling, and consequently
gives an even surface. Good sewing is the first step toward making good and workmanlike rugs.

Whenever the rags can be torn instead of cut, it is preferable, as it secures uniform width.
The width, of course, must vary according to the quality of cloth and weight desired in the
rug. A certain weight is necessary to make it lie smoothly, as a light rug will not stay in
place on the floor. In ordinary cotton cloth an inch wide strip is not too heavy and will pinch
into the required space. If, however, a door-hanging or lounge-cover is being woven, the rags
may be made half that width.

CHAPTER II.

THE PATTERN.

When proper warp and filling are secured, experimental weaving may begin. If the loom is an
old-fashioned wooden one, it will weave only in yard widths, and this yard width takes four
hundred and fifty threads of warp. Warping the loom is really the only difficult or troublesome
part of plain weaving, and therefore it is best to put in as long a warp as one is likely to
use in one colour. One and a half pounds of cotton rags will make one yard of weaving.

The simplest trial will be the weaving of white filling, either old or new, with a warp of
medium indigo blue. Of course each warp must be long enough to weave several rugs; and the
first one, to make the experiment as simple as possible, should be of white rags alone upon
a blue warp. There must be an allowance of five inches of warp for fringe before the weaving
is begun, and ten inches at the end of the rug to make a fringe for both first and second rugs.
Sometimes the warp is set in groups of three, with a corresponding interval between, and this--if
the tension is firm and the rags soft--gives a sort of honeycomb effect which is very good.

The grouping of the warp is especially desirable in one-coloured rugs, as it gives a variation
of surface which is really attractive.

When woven, the rug should measure three feet by six, without the fringe. This is to be knotted,
allowing six threads to a knot. This kind of bath-rug--which is the simplest thing possible
in weaving--will be found to be truly valuable, both for use and effect. If the filling is
sufficiently heavy, and especially if it is made of half-worn rags, it will be soft to the
feet, and can be as easily washed as a white counterpane; in fact, it can be thrown on the
grass in a heavy shower and allowed to wash and bleach itself.

Several variations can be made upon this blue warp in the way of borders and color-splashes
by using any indigo-dyed material mixed with the white rags. Cheap blue ginghams, "domestics"
or half-worn and somewhat faded blue denims will be of the right depth of color, but as a rule
new denim is of too dark a blue to introduce with pure white filling.

