'No, Hester. That, I think, is impossible. Though for the last twelve months I have not seen
you day by day,--though I have not prepared the food which you eat and the clothes which you
wear, as I used to do,--you have been as constantly in my mind. You are still my child, my
only child.'

'Mamma, I know you love me.'

'I so love you as to know that I sin in so loving aught that is human. And so loving you, must
I not do my duty by you? When love and duty both compel me to speak, how shall I be silent?'

'You have said it, mamma,' said Hester, slowly drawing herself up from off the ground.

'And is saying it once enough, when, as I think, the very soul, the immortal soul, of her who
is of all the dearest to me depends on what I may say;--may be saved, or, oh, perhaps lost
for ever by the manner in which I may say it! How am I not to speak when such thoughts as these
are heavy within me?'

'What is it you would say?' This Hester asked with a low hoarse voice and a stern look, as
though she could not resist her mother's prayer for the privilege of speaking; but at the same
time was resolutely prepared not to be turned a hair's-breadth by anything that might be said.

'Not a word about him.'

'No, mamma; no. Unless you can tell me that you will love him as your son-in-law.'

'Not a word about him,' she repeated, in a harsher voice. She felt that that promise should
have been enough, and that in the present circumstances she should not have been invited to
love the man she hated. 'Your father and I wish you for the next few months to come and live
with us.'

'It is quite impossible,' said Hester, standing very upright, with a face altogether unlike
that she had worn when kneeling at her mother's knees.

'You should listen to me.'

'Yes, I will listen.'

'There will be a trial.'

'Undoubtedly. John, at least, seems to think so. It is possible that these wicked people may
give it up, or that they may have no money to go on; but I suppose there will be a trial.'

'The woman has bound herself to prosecute him.'

'Because she wants to get money. But we need not discuss that, mamma. John thinks that there
will be a trial.'

'Till that is over, will you not be better away from him? How will it be with you if it should
be decided that he is not your husband?' Here Hester of course prepared herself for interruption,
but her mother prayed for permission to continue.

'Listen to me for one moment, Hester.'

'Very well, mamma. Go on.'

'How would it be with you in that case? You must be separated then. As that is possible, is
it not right that you should obey the ordinances of God and man, and keep yourself apart till
they who are in authority shall have spoken?'

'There are no such ordinances.'

'There are indeed. If you were to ask all your friends, all the married women in Cambridgeshire,
what would they say? Would they not all tell you that no woman should live with a man while
there is a shadow of doubt? And as to the law of God, you know God's law, and can only defend
yourself by your own certainty as to a matter respecting which all others are uncertain. You
think yourself certain because such certainty is a way to yourself out of your present misery.'

'It is for my child,' she shouted; 'and for him.'

'As for your babe, your darling babe, whether he be yours in joy of heart or in agony of spirit,
he is still yours. No one will rob you of him. If it be as we fear, would not I help you to
love him, help you to care for him, help you to pray for him? If it were so, would I desert
him or you because in your innocence you had been betrayed into misfortune? Do I not feel for
your child? But when he grows up and is a man, and will have learned the facts of his early
years, let him be able to tell himself that his mother though unfortunate was pure.'

'I am pure,' she said.

'My child, my own one, can I, your mother, think aught else of you? Do I not know your heart?
Do not I know the very thoughts within you?'

'I am pure. He has become my husband, and nothing can divide us. I never gave a thought to
another man. I never had the faintest liking, as do other girls. When he came and told me that
he had seen me and loved me, and would take me for his wife, I felt at once that I was all
his,--his to do as he liked with me, his to nourish him, his to worship him, his to obey him,
his to love him let father or mother or all the world say what they would to the contrary.
Then we were married. Till he was my own, I never even pressed my lips upon his. But I became
his wife by a bond that nothing shall break. You tell me of God's law. By God's law I am his
wife, let the people say what they will. I have but two to think of.'

'Yourself and him?' asked her mother.

'I have three to think of,--God, and him, and my child; and may God be good to me and them,
as in this matter I will put myself away from myself altogether. It is for me to obey him,
and I will submit myself to none other. If he bids me go, I will go; if he bids me stay here,
I will stay. I have become his so entirely, that no judges--no judges can divide us. Judges!
I know but one Judge, and He is there; and He has said that those whom He has joined together,
man shall not put asunder. Pure! pure! No one should praise herself, but as a woman I do know
that I am pure.'

Then the mother's heart yearned greatly towards her daughter; and yet she was no whit changed.
She knew nothing of phrases of logic, but she felt that Hester had begged the whole question.
Those whom God had joined together! True, true! If only one could know whether in this or the
other case God had joined the couple. As Hester argued the matter, no woman should be taken
from the man she had married, though he might have a dozen other wives all living. And she
spoke of purity as though it were a virtue which could be created and consecrated simply by
the action of her own heart, as though nothing outside,--no ceremony, no ordinance,--could
affect it. The same argument would enable her to live with John Caldigate after he should come
out of prison, even though, as would then be the case, another woman would have the legal right
of calling herself Mrs. John Caldigate! On the previous day she had declared that if she could
not be his wife, she would be his mistress. The mother knew what she meant,--that, let people
call her by what name they might, she would still be her husband's wife in the eye of God.
But she would not be so. And then she would not be pure. And, to Mrs. Bolton, the worst of
it was that this cloudiness had come upon her daughter,--this incapacity to reason it out,--because
the love of a human being had become so strong within her bosom as to have superseded and choked
the love of heavenly things. But how should she explain all this? 'I am not asking you to drop
his name.'

'Drop his name! I will never drop it. I cannot drop it. It is mine. I could not make myself
anything but Mrs. John Caldigate if I would. And he,' she said, taking the baby up from its
cradle and pressing it to her bosom, 'he shall be Daniel Caldigate to the day of his death.
Do you think that I will take a step that shall look like robbing my child of his honest name,--that
will seem to imply a doubt that he is not his own father's honest boy,--that he is not a fitting
heir to the property which his forefathers have owned so long? Never! They may call me what
name they will, but I will call myself John Caldigate's wife as long as I have a voice to make
myself heard.'

It was the same protest over and over again, and it was vain to answer. 'You will not stay
under your father's roof?'

'No; I have to live under my husband's roof.' Then Mrs. Bolton left the room, apparently in
anger. Though her heart within might be melting with ruth, still it was necessary that she
should assume a look of anger. On the morrow she would have to show herself angry with a vengeance,
if she should then still be determined to carry out her plan. And she thought that she was
determined. What had pity to do with it, or love, or moving heart-stirring words? Were not
all these things temptation from the Evil One, if they were allowed to interfere with the strict
line of hard duty? When she left the room, where the young mother was still standing with her
baby in her arms, she doubted for some minutes,--perhaps for some half-hour,--then she wrestled
with those emanations from the Evil One,--with pity, with love, and suasive tenderness,--and
at last overcame them. 'I know I am pure,' the daughter had said. 'I know I am right,' said
the mother.

But she spoke a word to her husband when he came home. 'I cannot bend her; I cannot turn her,
in the least.'

'She will not stay?'

'Not of her own accord.'

'You have told her?'

'Oh no; not till to-morrow.'

'She ought to stay, certainly,' said the father. There had been very little intercourse between
the mother and daughter during the afternoon, and while the three were sitting together, nothing
was said about the morrow. The evening would have seemed to be very sad and very silent, had
they not all three been used to so many silent evenings in that room. Hester, during her wedding
tour and the few weeks of her happiness at Folking, before the trouble had come, had felt a
new life and almost an ecstasy of joy in the thorough liveliness of her husband. But the days
of her old home were not so long ago that its old manners should seem strange to her. She therefore
sat out the hours patiently, stitching some baby's ornament, till her mother told her that
the time for prayer had come. After worship her father called her out into the hall as he went
up to his room. 'Hester,' he said, 'it is not right that you should leave us to-morrow.'

'I must, papa.'

'I tell you that it is not right. You have a home in which everybody will respect you. For
the present you should remain here.'

'I cannot, papa. He told me to go back to-morrow. I would not disobey him now,--not now,--were
it ever so.' Then the old man paused as though he were going on with the argument, but finding
that he had said all that he had to say, he slowly made his way upstairs.

'Good-night, mamma,' said Hester, returning only to the door of the sitting-room.

'Good-night, my love.' As the words were spoken they both felt that there was something wrong,--much
that was wrong. 'I do not think they will do that,' said Hester to herself, as she went up
the stairs to her chamber.

Chapter XXXIV

Violence

It had been arranged at Folking, before Hester had started, that Caldigate himself should drive
the waggonette into Cambridge to take her back on the Wednesday, but that he would bring a
servant with him who should drive the carriage up to the Grange, so that he, personally, should
not have to appear at the door of the house. He would remain at Mr. Seely's, and then the waggonette
should pick him up. This had been explained to Mrs. Bolton. 'John will remain in town, because
he has so much to do with Mr. Seely,' Hester had said; 'and Richard will call here at about
twelve.' All her plans had thus been made known, and Mrs. Bolton was aware at what hour the
bolts must be drawn and the things removed.

But, as the time drew nearer, her dislike to a sudden commencement of absolute hostilities
became stronger,--to hostilities which would seem to have no sanction from Mr. Bolton himself,
because he would then be absent. This reverie, which did not last many minutes, and was interrupted
by the abrupt moving away of Edith to the writing-desk in her own room, was caused by a moment's
vivid realization of what Jack's interests in life were. Could she possibly make them her
own? And if she did, what would become of her own ideals?

III It was indeed a busy day for Jack.

Great injustice would be done him if it were supposed that he did not take himself and his occupations
seriously. His mind was not disturbed by trifles.

He knew that he had on the right sort of four-in-hand necktie, with
the appropriate pin of pear-shaped pearl, and that he carried the
cane of the season.

These things come by a sort of social instinct, are in the air, as
it were, and do not much tax the mind. He had to hasten a little
to keep his half-past-eleven o'clock appointment at Stalker's stables,
and when he arrived several men of his set were already waiting, who
were also busy men, and had made a little effort to come round early
and assist Jack in making up his mind about the horse.

When Mr. Stalker brought out Storm, and led him around to show his action, the connoisseurs took
on a critical attitude, an attitude of judgment, exhibited not less in the poise of the head and
the serious face than in the holding of the cane and the planting of legs wide apart. And the attitude
had a refined nonchalance which professional horsemen scarcely ever attain. Storm could not have
received more critical and serious attention if he had been a cooked
terrapin.

He could afford to stand this scrutiny, and he seemed to move about
with the consciousness that he knew more about being a horse than
his judges. Storm was, in fact, a splendid animal, instinct with life from
his thin flaring nostril to his small hoof; black as a raven, his
highly groomed skin took the polish of ebony, and showed the play
of his powerful muscles, and, one might say, almost the nervous currents
that thrilled his fine texture.

His large, bold eyes, though not wicked, flamed now and then with an energy
and excitement that gave ample notice that he would obey no master
who had not stronger will and nerve than his own.

It was a tribute to Jack's manliness that, when he mounted him for a turn in the ring, Storm
seemed to recognize the fine quality of both seat and hand, and appeared willing to take him on probation.
"He's got good points," said Mr. Herbert Albert Flick, "but I'd like
a straighter back."

"I'll be hanged, though, Jack," was Mr. Mowbray Russell's comment, "if I'd ride him in the Park
before he's docked. Say what you like about action, a horse has got to have style." "Moves
easy, falls off a little too much to suit me in the quarter," suggested
Mr. Pennington Docstater, sucking the head of his cane.

"How about his staying quality, Stalker?" "That's just where he is,
Mr. Docstater; take him on the road, he's a stayer for all day. Goes
like a bird.

He'll take you along at the rate of nine miles in forty-five minutes
as long as you want to sit there." "Jump?" queried little Bobby Simerton,
whose strong suit at the club was talking about meets and hunters.

"Never refused anything I put him at," replied Stalker; "takes every
fence as if it was the regular thing."

Storm was in this way entirely taken to pieces, praised and disparaged, in a way to give Stalker,
it might be inferred from his manner, a high opinion of the knowledge
of these young gentlemen.

"It takes a gentleman," in fact, Stalker said, "to judge a hoss, for
a good hoss is a gentleman himself."

It was much discussed whether Storm would do better for the Park
or for the country, whether it would be better to put him in the field
or keep him for a roadster.

It might, indeed, be inferred that Jack had not made up his mind whether he should buy a horse
for use in the Park or for country riding. Even more than this might be inferred from the long
morning's work, and that was that while Jack's occupation was to
buy a horse, if he should buy one his occupation would be gone.

He was known at the club to be looking for the right sort of a horse, and that he knew what
he wanted, and was not easily satisfied; and as long as he occupied
this position he was an object of interest to sellers and to his
companions.

Perhaps Mr. Stalker understood this, for when the buyers had gone he remarked to the stable-boy, "Mr.
Delancy, he don't want to buy no hoss."

When the inspection of the horse was finished it was time for lunch, and
the labors of the morning were felt to justify this indulgence, though
each of the party had other engagements, and was too busy to waste
the time.

They went down to the Knickerbocker. I had better go and help nurse to put the things up.' So saying she left the
room, but Mrs. Bolton remained there a while, sitting square and firm at the table.

It was not yet ten when she slowly followed her daughter up-stairs. She first went into her
own room for a moment, to collect her thoughts over again, and then she walked across the passage
to her daughter's chamber. She knocked at the door, but entered as she knocked. 'Nurse,' she
said, 'will you go into my room for a minute or two? I wish to speak to your mistress. May
she take the baby, Hester?' The baby was taken, and then the two were alone. 'Do not pack up
your things to-day, Hester.'

'Why not?'

'You are not going to-day.'

'I am going to-day, mamma.'

'That I should seem to be cruel to you,--only seem,--cuts me to the heart. But you cannot go
back to Folking to-day.'

'When am I to go?'

'Ah, Hester!'

'Tell me what you mean, mamma. Is it that I am to be a prisoner?'

'If you would be gentle I would explain it.'

'I will not be gentle. You mean to keep me,--by violence; but I mean to go; my husband will
come. I will not be kept. Oh, mamma, you would not desire me to quarrel with you openly, before
the servants, before all the world! I will not be kept. I will certainly go back to Folking.
Would I not go back though I had to get through the windows, to walk the whole way, to call
upon the policemen even to help me?'

'No one will help you, Hester. Every one will know that for the present this should be your home.'

'It never shall be my home again,' said Hester, bursting into tears, and rushing after her baby.

Then there were two hours of intense misery in that house,--of misery to all who were concerned.
The servants, down to the girl in the scullery and the boy who cleaned the boots, were made
aware that master and mistress were both determined to keep their married daughter a prisoner
in the house. The servants of the house sided with their mistress generally, having all of
them been induced to regard John Caldigate with horror. Hester's nurse, of course, sympathised
with her and her baby. During these two hours the packing was completed, but Hester found that
her strong walking-boots and her bonnet had been abstracted. Did they really think that at
such a time as this boots and bonnets would be anything to her? They could know nothing of
her nature. They could not understand the sort of combat she would carry on if an attempt were
made to take from her her liberty,--an attempt made by those who had by law no right to control
her! When once she had learned what was being done she would not condescend to leave her room
till the carriage should have come. That that would come punctually at twelve she was sure.
Then she would go down without her bonnet and without her boots, and see whether any one would
dare to stand in her way, as with her baby in her arms she would attempt to walk forth through
the front door.

But it had not occurred to her that other steps might be taken. Just before twelve the gardener
stationed himself on the road before the house,--a road which was half lane and half street,
belonging to the suburban village of Chesterton,--and there awaited the carriage at a spot
some yards away from the gate. It was well that he was early, because Richard was there a few
minutes before the time appointed. 'She ain't a-going back to-day,' said the gardener, laying
his hands gently on the horse's back.

'Who ain't not a-going back?' asked the coachman.

'Miss Hester ain't.'

'Mrs. John ain't a-going home?'

'No;--I was to come out and tell you, as master don't like wheels on the gravel if it can be
helped. We ain't got none of our own.'

'Missus ain't a-going home? Why, master expects her for certain!'

'I was to say she ain't a-going to-day.'

The man who was driving passed the reins into his whip-hand, and raising his hat, began to
scratch his head with the other. He knew at once that there was something wrong,--that this
prolonged staying away from home was not merely a pleasantly lengthened visit. His master had
been very urgent with him as to punctuality, and was evidently intent upon the return of his
wife. All the facts of the accusation were known to the man, and the fact also that his master's
present wife was entirely in accord with his master. It could not be that she should have determined
to prolong her visit, and then have sent him back to her husband with such a message as this!
'If you'll hold the hosses just a minute,' he said, 'I'll go in and see my missus.'

But the Grange gardener was quite as intent on his side of the question as was the Folking
coachman on the other. To him the horrors of bigamy were manifest. He was quite of opinion
that 'Miss Hester,'--who never ought to have been married in that way at all,--should now be
kept a prisoner in her father's house. 'It ain't no use your going in,--and you can't,' said
the gardener. 'I ain't a-going to hold the horses, and there's nobody as will.'

'What's up, mate?'

'I don't know as I'm mate to you, nor yet to no one like you. And as to what's up, I've told
you all as I'm bade to tell you; and I ain't a-going to tell you no more. You can't turn your
horses there You'd better drive round into the village, and there you'll get the high-road
back to Cambridge.' Then the gardener retreated within a little gate of his own which led from
the lane into the precincts close to his own cottage. The man was an honest, loyal old fanatic,
who would scruple at nothing in carrying out the orders of his mistress in so good a cause.
And personally his feelings had been acerbated in that he had been called 'mate' by a man not
half his age.

The coachman did as he was bid, seeing before him no other possible course. He could not leave
his horses. But when he was in front of the iron gates he stopped and examined the premises.
The gates were old, and were opened and closed at ordinary times by an ordinary ancient lock.
But now there was a chain passed in and out with a padlock,--evidently placed there to prevent
him from entering in opposition to the gardener's instructions. There was clearly no course
open to him but to drive the carriage back to his master.

At a quarter before twelve Hester left her own room,--which looked backwards into the garden,
as did all the pleasanter rooms of the house,--with the intention of seating herself in a spare
room looking out to the front, from which she could have seen the carriage as it entered the
gate. Had she so seen it she would certainly have called to the man from the window when he
was standing in the road. But the door of that front room was locked against her; and when
she tried the other she found that all the front rooms were locked. She knew the house, of
course, as well as did her mother, and she rushed up to the attics where the servants occupied
the rooms looking out to the road. But they, too, were locked against her. Then it flashed
upon her that the attempt to make her a prisoner was to be carried out through every possible
detail.

What should she do? Her husband would come of course; but what if he were unable to force an
entrance? And how could he force it? Would the police help him? Would the magistrates help
him? She knew that the law was on her side, and on his,--that the law would declare him to
be her lord and owner till the law should have separated them. But would the law allow itself
to be used readily for this purpose? She, too, could understand that the feeling of the community
would be against her, and that in such a case the law might allow itself to become slow, lethargic,
and perhaps inoperative, yielding to the popular feeling. She saw the points which were strong
against her as clearly as William and Robert Bolton had seen those which were strong on their
side. But----! As she stood there beating her foot angrily on the floor of the passage, she
made up her mind that there should be more than one 'but' in his favour. If they kept her,
they should have to lock her up as in a dungeon; they and all the neighbourhood should hear
her voice. They should be driven to do such things that the feeling of the community would
be no longer on their side.

Various ideas passed through her mind. She thought for a moment that she would refuse to take
any nourishment in that house. Her mother would surely not see her die; and would thus have
to see her die or else send her forth to be fed. But that thought stayed with her but for a
moment. It was not only for herself that she must eat and drink, but for her baby. Then, finding
that she could not get to the front windows, and seeing that the time had come in which the
carriage should have been there, she went down into the hall, where she found her mother seated
on a high-backed old oak armchair. The windows of the hall looked out on to the sweep before
the house; but she was well aware that from these lower windows the plot of shrubs in the centre
of the space hindered any view of the gate. Without speaking to her mother she put her hand
upon the lock of the door as though to walk forth, but found it barred. 'Am I a prisoner?'
she said.

'Yes, Hester; yes. If you will use such a word as to your father's house, you are a prisoner.'

'I will not remain so. You will have to chain me, and to gag me, and to kill me. Oh, my baby,--oh,
my child! Nurse, nurse, bring me my boy.' Then with her baby in her arms, she sat down in another
high-backed oak armchair, looking at the hall-door. There she would sit till her husband should
come. He surely would come. He would make his way up to those windows, and there she could
at any rate hear his commands. If he came for her, surely she would be able to escape.

The coachman drove back to the town very quickly, and went to the inn at which his horses were
generally put up, thinking it better to go to his master thence on foot. But there he found
John Caldigate, who had come across from Mr. Seely's office. 'Where is Mrs. Caldigate?' he
said, as the man drove the empty carriage down the entrance to the yard. The man, touching
his hat, and with a motion of his hand which was intended to check his master's impetuosity,
drove on; and then, when he had freed himself from the charge of his horses, told his story
with many whispers.

'The gardener said she wasn't to come!'

'Just that, sir. There's something up more than you think, sir; there is indeed. He was that
fractious that he wouldn't hold the hosses for me, not for a minute, till I could go in and
see, and then------'

'Well?'

'The gates was chained, sir.'

'Chained?'

'A chain was round the bars, and a padlock. I never see such a thing on a gentleman's gate
in my life before. Chained; as nobody wasn't to go in, nor yet nobody wasn't to come out!'
The man as he said this wore that air of dignity which is always imparted by the possession
of great tidings the truth of which will certainly not be doubted.

The tidings were great. The very thing which his father had suggested, and which he had declared
to be impossible, was being done. The old banker himself would not, he thought, have dared
to propose and carry out such a project. The whole Bolton family had conspired together to
keep his wife from him, and had allured her away by the false promise of a friendly visit!
He knew, too, that the law was on his side; but he knew also that he might find it very difficult
to make use of the law. If the world of Cambridge chose to think that Hester was not his wife,
the world of Cambridge would probably support the Boltons by their opinion. But if she, if
his Hester, were true to him, and she certainly would be true to him--and if she were as courageous
as he believed her to be,--then, as he thought, no house in Chesterton would be able to hold her.

He stood for a moment turning in his mind what he had better do. Then he gave his orders to
the man in a clear natural voice. 'Take the horses out, Richard, and feed them. You had better
get your dinner here, so that I may be sure to find you here the moment I want you.

'I won't stir a step from the place,' said the man.

Chapter XXXV

In Prison

What should he do? John Caldigate, as he walked out of the inn-yard, had to decide for himself
what he would do at once. His first impulse was to go to the mayor and ask for assistance.
He had a right to the custody of his wife. Her father had no right to make her a prisoner.
She was entitled to go whither she pleased, so long as she had his sanction and should she
be separated from him by the action of the law, she would be entitled to go whither she pleased
without sanction from any one. Whether married or unmarried she was not subject to her father.
The husband was sure that he was entitled to the assistance of the police, but he doubted much
whether he would be able to get it, and he was most averse to ask for it.

And yet what other step could he take? With no purpose as yet quite fixed, he went to the bank,
thinking that he might best commence his work by expostulating with his wife's father. It was
Mr. Bolton's habit to walk every morning into the town, unless he was deterred by heat or wet
or ill health; and till lately it had been his habit also to walk back, his house being a mile
and a half distant from the bank; but latterly the double walk had become too much for him,
and, when the time for his return came, he would send out for a cab to take him home. His hours
were very various. He would generally lunch at the bank, in his own little dingy room; but
if things went badly with him, so as to disturb his mind, he would go back early in the day,
and generally pass the afternoon asleep. On this occasion he was very much troubled, so that
when Caldigate reached the bank, which he did before one, Mr. Bolton was already getting into
his cab. 'Could I speak a few words to you, sir?' said Caldigate in the street.

'I am not very well to-day,' said the banker, hardly looking round, persevering in his effort
to get into the vehicle.

'I would not keep you for a minute, sir. I must see you, as you are aware.'

There were already half-a-dozen people collected, all of whom had no doubt heard the story
of John Caldigate's wife. There was, indeed, no man or woman in Cambridge whose ears it had
not reached. In the hearing of these Mr. Bolton was determined not to speak of his daughter,
and he was equally determined not to go back into the house. 'I have nothing to say,' he muttered--'nothing,
nothing; drive on.' So the cab was driven on, and John Caldigate was left in the street.

The man's anger now produced a fixed purpose, and with a quick step he walked away from the
bank to Robert Bolton's office. There he soon found himself in the attorney's room. 'Are you
aware of what they are doing at the Grange?' he asked, in a voice which was not so guarded
as it should have been on such an occasion. Anger and the quickness of his walk had combined
to make him short of breath, and he asked the question with that flurried, hasty manner which
is common to angry people who are hot rather than malicious in their angers.

'I don't think I am,' said the attorney. 'But if I were, I doubt whether I should just at present
be willing to discuss their doings with you.'

'My wife has gone there on a visit.'

'I am glad to hear it. It is the best thing that my sister could do.'

'And now it seems some difficulty is made about her returning.'

That I think very likely. Her father and mother can hardly wish that she should go back to
your house at present. I cannot imagine that she should wish it herself. If you have the feelings
of a gentleman or the heart of a man you ought not to wish it.'

'I have not come here to be taught what is becoming either to a man or a gentleman.'

'If you will allow me to say so, while things are as they are at present, you ought not to
come here at all.'

'I should not have done so but for this violence, this breach of all hospitality at your father's
house! My wife went there with the understanding that she was to stay for two days.'

'And now, you say, they detain her. I am not responsible; but in doing so they have my thorough
sympathy and approbation. I do not know that I can help them, or that they will want my help;
but I shall help them if I can. The fact is, you had better leave her there.'

'Never!'

'I should not have volunteered my advice, but, as you are here, I may perhaps say a word. If
you attempt to take her by violence from her father's house you will have all the town, all
the county, all England against you.'

'I should;--I own it;----unless she wished to come to me. If she chooses to stay, she shall stay.'

'It must not be left to her. The lunch was slight, but its ordering took time and consideration,
as it ought, for nothing is so destructive of health and mental tone as the snatching of a
mid-day meal at a lunch counter from a bill of fare prepared by God
knows whom. But if, as everybody I find believes at present, it should be proved that you are the
husband of that woman, and that you have basely betrayed my poor sister by a mock marriage,
then she must be left to the care of her father and her mother, and may Heaven help her in
her misery.' All this he said with much dignity, and in a manner with which even Caldigate
could not take personal offence. 'You must remember,' he added, 'that this poor injured one
is their daughter and my sister.'

'I say that she has been in no wise injured but,--as I also am injured,--by a wicked plot.
And I say that she shall come back to me, unless she herself elects to remain with her parents.'
Then he left the office and went forth again into the streets.

