It is pleasingly curious to observe in these times the shadow of the semblance of this most
useful military power preserved as at Leicester, in the array of a few of the poor men of Trinity
hospital, clad in pieces of iron armour, attending the beadle while he proclaims a fair; nor
is it less so to recollect that the feasts annually given by the mayor were once held in imitation
of the rude hospitality of the Barons whose feasts not a little contributed to give a consequence
to the commons of England, and to humanize the haughty chief by shewing him that respectability
might belong to those who did not wield the sword, and that men might have dignity even tho'
they had no pretensions to the glare of titles and the illusions of birth.  Thus will the intelligent
observer find, that corporate bodies were the true sources of law, liberty and civilization,
and by rendering the occupation of trade respectable they may be deemed the first origin of
that commerce which has rendered Great Britain the most powerful and most happy nation of the
earth.

These few reflections we will suppose to have occupied the time during the short walk from
St. Martin's church to the

MARKET-PLACE.

In this spacious area, which is surrounded by handsome and well-furnished shops, and whose
public ornaments are the plain but respectable building called the Exchange, built in 1747,
where the town magistrates transact their weekly business, and a small octagon edifice enclosing
a reservoir of pure water, the Conduit, erected in 1709, we must, having completed the circuit
of the town, offer our farewell to our visitor.

Here closing our little tour, which has engaged us in an imaginary acquaintance with the intelligent
stranger, we beg he will accept a friendly adieu: and a wish, that as he quits the town thro'
which we have conducted him, and which we have endeavoured to represent in a view not unworthy
the attention of a mind that seeks for more than mere passing ideas of amusement, he may not
consider that time as prodigally spent which he has passed in his WALK THROUGH LEICESTER.

APRIL, 1804

MANUFACTORY OF THE TOWN. 

In cold and stormy weather their hardships are great Stockings, an cotton hose bath in county
being an event of frequent occurrence. Though the men sing as they work, and make the best of their mishaps
with jests and laughter, they rarely carry homesick hearts.

The machine by which these hose are made, was first invented in the year 1590, by the Rev.
W. Lee, of Calverton, in Nottinghamshire, who exhibited it before Queen Elizabeth, but not
meeting with that encouragement he so justly deserved, immediately left the country, and carried
it to France, where he would have established it at Rouen, had it not been for the murder of
the French king which prevented the execution of a grant of privilege and reward in favor of
Mr. Lee and his art.

Soon after Mr. Lee died under great disappointment at Paris, and several of his workmen returning
to London, laid the foundation of Stocking Weaving in this county.  The manufactory has been
gradually increasing, but within these last ten years has rapidly advanced to its present flourishing
state.  The number of workmen employed in this branch is not less than 20,000 who produce from
the raw material about 15,000 dozen per week.

*  A full account of this manufactory, in all its branches, is preparing for the press, and
will be published in the course of the summer.

ERRATUM.

The reader is requested to correct the account of St. Martin's organ, as follows.

Great organ, two open and a stop diapason, principal, 12th, 15th, ses-quialtia, cornet, clarion,
trumpet.  Choir organ, two diapasons, principal, 15th, flute, bassoon.  Swell, two diapasons,
principal, cornet, hautboy, trumpet.

                                              [Combe, Printer, Leicester.]

