The visitor will now have a full view of St. Mary's church, antiently known by the distinguishing
addition of infra or juxta Castrum, a building in which he will perceive, huddled together,
specimens of various kinds of architecture, from the Norman gothic of the north chancel, to
the very modern gothic of the spire; a mixture which evinces the antiquity of the church, marks
the disasters of violence, accident, and time, and proves that the neighbourhood of the castle,
within whose outer ballium or precincts it stood, was often most dangerous.  That there was
a church, on this spot in the Saxon times, seems almost certain, from some bricks apparently
the workmanship of that people, found in the chancel; and the cheveron work round the windows
of this chancel proves that the first Norman Earl of Leicester, Robert de Bellomont, when he
repaired the mischiefs of the Norman conquest, or rather of the attack made by William Rufus
upon the property of the Grentemaisnells, constructed a church on a plan nearly like the present,
and adorned it with all the ornaments of the architecture of his times. This Earl founded in
it a college of twelve canons, of whom the Dean was most probably one, and among other donations
for their support, he endowed it with the patronage of all the other churches of Leicester,
St. Margaret's excepted.  These, his son and successor, Robert, surnamed Bossu, converted into
regular canons, and removed them, with great additional donations to the Abbey in the meadows.
He seems however to have continued an establishment of eight canons in the collegiate church,
tho' with revenues comparatively small, since their income, at the dissolution of the monasteries,
was valued only at 23l. 12s. 11d.  That the number of these canons remained unchanged at the
time of the dissolution, appears probable from the circumstance of seven cranes and a socket
for an eighth being still found in a kind of press, or ark, as it is called, in the vestry,
for the purpose of suspending the priests' vestments.

The inside of the church is spacious and commodious, and has lately been rendered still more
so by converting the gothic arches of the south side of the nave into one bold semicircular
arch whose span is 39 feet, and erecting a gallery in the wide south aisle, said to have been
built by John of Gaunt Duke of Lancaster.

In the great choir or chapel called Trinity choir, at the east end of the great south aisle,
(for the aisles of our churches were formerly often divided into chapels, but of which in this
church no traces now remain), was held a Guild or Fraternity, called Trinity Guild, founded
in the reign of Henry the Seventh, by Sir Richard Sacheverel, Kt. and the good Lady Hungerford.
Collections were made four times a year, of the brethren and sisters belonging to this Society,
whatever it might be, for Antiquaries have not rendered the point sufficiently clear, but from
their meetings being held in churches, it is most probable that they were of a religious nature.
The money when collected was applied to meet various expenses, but chiefly to pay the wages
of their priest, perhaps their confessor, and to supply their great feast held annually on
Trinity Sunday, for which, according to the account of the steward and wardens, the following
articles were purchased, A.D. 1508.

                                      s.        d.

A dozen of Ale                        1         8 A fat Sheep                           2 
4 Seven Lambs                           7         0 Thirty Chickens                       1
11 Two gallons of Cream                  0         8 0.5qr. of Malt                       
2         0 Fourteen Geese                        4         3

