"Oh, Honor! my dear little one. How could you have tortured your poor noble little heart like
this? What terrible things I must have made you do unthinkingly? and I dreaming all the while
it was my boundless love alone that influenced me. But believe me, child these feeble, wrinkled
hands would burn heroically over the slowest fire before they could be raised in voluntary
tyranny over you. I would rather far that these dim eyes became stone blind to the light of
heaven than that they should cast one glance of undue reproach upon you. Aye, and my very heart
would break within me rather than it should foster one sentiment that was not love for you,
and yet, feeling thus, I was driving you to ruin and wreck. Instinct taught you the terrible
truth, and you would blight your life rather than not suit the whims of a thoughtless old man.
How can I ever look you in the face again? Oh! my dearest child, this indeed is too much--too
much--too much" and sobbing violently, the bowed head, with its snow-white locks, fell on the
shoulder of the tearful girl kneeling beside the old man's chair. In her gentlest, most childish
and winning way, Honor, brightening up her countenance, said to her disconsolate guardian,

"Well, if you are really sorry, as you pretend, it is not a very good proof that you love me
as much as you say."

At this the bowed head was raised, and a glance of hopeful enquiry cast on the girl's face.

"Well, it is this way," Honor continued, answering it: "you see, if Vivian Standish had never
been encouraged by you, he would never have come here at all, and Guy would never have been
alarmed about us, and would not have come back at all, and then, of course, we would never
have all been reunited. I would be a gloomy, grumbling old maid, that could never be happy,
and life would have been painfully glum for the future, whereas,"--and here the old, care-worn
face smiled, as it watched the good, kind features of the girl--"you brought everything to
a beautiful crisis, by pretending to force another man on me, for I really don't believe now,
you meant me to marry him at all," she said, laughing outright, and kissing away the remnants
of the old man's grief from his sorrowful face.

"You are an angel of consolation, besides everything else," was all that Mr. Rayne could answer
to her pretty speech, but he clasped again the hands of the two young people he loved, and
in an earnest, pious tone, he said:

"I give you, one to another: may you live to gladden and comfort one another's hearts, through
a long, prosperous and holy life; and remember, that each time you dwell upon the memory of
the old man, who was foolish, only in his wild love for you both, that he has begged of God
on this day, to sanction this humble blessing by one from on high, and that the desire for
your future welfares, was the very last desire he had satisfied in this life and now, my children,
I will leave you, I am tired and worn out, and would like to rest. Will you each lend me an
arm, as though no estrangement had ever come between us? Come! forgive the old man. Come, Honor!
come, Guy! 'tis the last time I will ask you to assist me up these stairs."

"Do not say such ugly, ominous words, dear Mr Rayne," Honor pleaded, sliding her arm in a fond
way into his, and with Guy on the other side of him, the old man, smiling happily, was assisted
back to his pillows, whence, it may as well be said, he never rose again.

The excitement of Vivian Standish's capture and arrest, with the unexpected circumstances of
Guy's return, and Honor's great sacrifice, had only served to hasten the slow progress of a
fatal illness. For days after, he weakened gradually, but hopelessly, yet filled with such
a holy resignation and peaceful endurance, as could not help softening the terrible grief that
would have been resistless, had he suffered without fortitude or hope.

CHAPTER XL.

                   Man's uncertain life.
  So like a ram-drop, hanging on the bough.
  Amongst ten thousand of its sparkling kindred,
  The remnants of some passing thunder shower,
  Which have their moments dropping one by one,
  And which shall soonest lose its perilous hold,
  We cannot guess.
                   --J Baillie

The tired, spent moments of the old year's midnight, were crawling into eternity, the fierce
December wind was sighing out its wearied farewell over the frozen streets; the thick white
frosts were gathering on the window panes, in crystal shrubs and icy forests; December was
howling, in a spectral voice, the ominous cry of the "Banshee," in anticipation of the old
year's death. It was well nigh the hour of another day's dawn, but in the house of Henry Rayne
everyone was astir. In the old, familiar home, where we have intruded so often upon happy inmates
in their joy, we now steal an entrance, to witness the gloom, the stillness, the oppressive
silence of an awful grief. There is a wasted hand lying over the neat counterpane: it is clammy
and feeble, there is a feverish brow, tossing on a downy pillow, parched lips, dim eyes, shadowy
features, are now what we recognise, instead of the good- natured, smiling face of Henry Rayne,
there is labored breathing, causing the weak breast to heave and fall in heavy sobs, there
is the sound of stifled weeping and half muttered prayers from those who kneel around his bed.
Honor is kneeling at the head, with blanched face, clutching her clasped hands nervously, while
her pale lips repeat a supplication for him who is dying before her. Guy, on the opposite side,
stands peering eagerly into the face of the doomed one he loves, watching and waiting for the
last terrible change that will ever come. Jean d'Alberg, kneeling at the foot, with her face
buried in her hands, is stifling the tears and sobs that burst from her weary eyes and breast,
and at a little distance away, the two faithful servants are weeping and praying over the last
of him, whom they had learned to cherish and idolize.

Suddenly the dim eyes grow somewhat bright, a sweet smile hovers around the mouth of the dying
man, he makes a feeble effort to take the hand of his little girl in his. Honor sees it, and
quietly lays her cold hand in his, she is conscious of a weak pressure, which almost breaks
the bounds of her heroic endurance. Then the dying glance is turned on Guy, and the same effort
repeated, he too lays his trembling hand in that of the dying man, beside Honor's, with its
last feeble effort they feel the hand of the man they had each loved as a parent attempt to
link theirs together, when that is done he tries to move his lips, bending low over him. Honor
can catch the words, "Love--one--another," and then the voice fails, after that, she hears
stray, broken syllables, "happy," "memory," and "at last."

Guy, taking Honor's hands in both his, across the death-bed, pledges his love for life in a
tone so clear and loud that the dying man can hear it, for he smiles, and looks at each, and
with the half-stifled words of his blessing, he closes his weary, languid eyes, and his spirit
passes away.

       *       *       *       *       *

All the toil and worry of life have perished with that last long sigh, no more work awaits
those weary hands, so Honor crosses them reverentially on the still breast. His dying smile
lingered on his dear kind face, even in death, and people as they came and went wiped away
a tear and said, "it was easily seen the old man had died with an unburdened conscience." Every
one regretted the demise of such an estimable man, the daily papers came out next morning and
evening with lengthy obituaries and tributes to the memory of one who was known to be such
a valued citizen. The funeral was one of, if not the longest, that was ever seen in the streets
of Ottawa, and every man who joined the solemn procession was a genuine mourner for the kind-hearted
deceased.

People stared and wondered at seeing Guy returned, but they were also very glad, for he was
a universal favorite with those who had known him before.

Through all her bitter grief Honor had shed no tear, though every tinge of color had faded
out of her face, and her eyes grew wild and vacant in their gaze. When the bustle, and excitement
had all subsided, immediately after the death of Mr. Rayne, Honor had stolen into the room
where he lay, in the depths of a handsome coffin, sleeping his eternal sleep, and throwing
herself on her knees beside him, she bowed down her head until her own fair, warm cheek rested
against the icy cold face of the dead man she loved, here she neither wept nor moaned, but
in silent, tearless anguish mourned over her departed friend. She gently chafed the stiff,
cold hands with hers, and smoothed back the silver hair from his marble brow, there was a load
of crushing weight and pain and care down deep in her poor heart, but still no tear would come
to her burning eyes. By and bye, when she had spent nearly an hour beside the lifeless figure
she loved so fondly, Guy missed her, and suspecting her whereabouts, came stealthily to the
door of the room where their dead relative lay, it was closed, but yielded to his gentle pressure,
and opened noiselessly,--sure enough, there she was, still lying beside the dead smiling face,
but now she was speaking, in a low, murmuring tone, such heart-rending words as brought the
tears to Guy's own eyes while he listened, unnoticed.

"Lonely?" she was saying, in a long sigh, "Oh, yes, poor Honor will often be very lonely for
her dear friend and parent, she will look for him in all the dear, familiar nooks where once
she loved to see him, but she will always be disappointed, he will never, never see her nor
speak to her again. Oh, I might have known," she rambled on, "that this was too much happiness
for me--but dear, dear Mr Rayne, open your beautiful eyes and look at me. Just once again,
in the old way--we are alone now, will you not say a little word to poor Honor?--See how I
kiss you right on your dear lips, like of old, but your lips are so cold, I do not believe
you feel or care for my kiss--"

Guy could stand this no longer, he feared the girl's mind would become demented if allowed
to continue in such a strain; he stole over, and putting his arms gently around her, he drew
her away from the figure of the dead man--

"Honor," he whispered, "you must come away now, this will harm you--you look so tired and ill
already, you must take great care of yourself darling,--for my sake, do." Very mechanically
she obeyed, and turned away. Guy felt as if in this mutual sorrow, they had been drawn closer
together than any other tie could bring them; he raised the pallid, serious face, and kissed
it tenderly, saying--

"You must bear up, my darling, for you know what a great grief it would be to him, to know
that you suffered so."

"Trust me, Guy," she answered softly, "I will brave it--but then you know, he was my father,
and I loved him."

"Yes, that is all true, my love, but you must remember he is better off, and he has left his
blessing with us, for all our lives."

"And we will merit it, Guy, will we not, he was so good, so kind, so true?"

"That we will, Honor, I swear it, I will never forget the pledge I spoke into his dying ears."

"Nor I," she answered, in a whisper.

They left the room together, and Honor stole away to her own quarters; she saw no more of her
dear guardian after that, until the funeral day, when she pressed the last long kiss of eternal
farewell on his cold, unfeeling lips, that was the scene which racked her poor tried heart
with all the sharpest pangs that grief doth know she fancied, at that moment her endurance
must yield, and her heart break, but she remembered dimly having been carried away to another
room, and when she saw and felt again, all was over.

       *       *       *       *      *

Two days after the interment of Henry Rayne, Guy and Honor sat chatting quietly together in
the little sitting-room from whose window, Guy had caught the first glimpses of Honor, on that
autumn evening long ago. In a close-fitting dress of heavy black, Honor looked more imposing
and dignified than ever: her face was very pale, and there were deep, dark lines under her
sad eyes. Guy too was serious, though handsome and careful as ever; their grief it is true,
had thrown a heavy pall over the happiness of their new love, but still, each, felt, that it
had served only to draw them still closer together, they were now all in all to one another.

"You are looking pale, and ill, my darling," Guy said, rising and throwing himself on the handsome
fender-stool at her feet, "I hope you are going to try and regain your former health and spirits
very soon."

"Oh, yes indeed, I intend to, Guy," she answered sweetly, "I can do that easily, for your sake."

"Don't forget that you are exclusively mine, now," he said looking straight up into her clear,
gray eyes, "and very soon, I want to let every one know it too." Honor smiled sadly.

"Foolish boy," she said, half in soliloquy, "you will have enough of me all your life, take
your time now," while she spoke thus, she was burying her gaze in a beautiful little ring,
which she twisted thoughtfully around her finger, without lifting her eyes, she said in such
a serious tone.

"Guy--I hope you have not forgotten, to balance well in your mind, all the consequences and
penalties of the step you are in such a hurry to take--remember that all is not so smooth and
tempting as one sees it through the illusionary eyes of a first love. After all, we women,
are only human and as likely to err as any one else; let us not then deceive ourselves, that
sometimes in our lives, little thorns will not cross our path, and little storm-clouds obscure
our bright, warm sun--if you have not prepared yourself for this, it is not now too late--better
give in at the brink of a precipice than risk a fall--"

"Honor--your words are strange--maybe true, but not appropriate here, it was your voice, your
example, that recalled me from the downward path of recklessness I was pursuing when I met
you, I was haunted by your look, and your words always stood between me and evil, at last I
fled, I ran away from temptation, I sought a new field of action, I worked in it, ever in the
presence of your dear face, looking into your deep eyes, listening to your sweet voice, success
awaited me, I rose, higher and higher; prosperity lavished her favors on me, I worked hard
to redeem the name I had tarnished, and thanks to you, my noble darling, I have succeeded!"

"You exaggerate a woman's influence, Guy, I admit that there are women who are grand enough
for this, but they are very rare; woman, it is true, has much in her power, a great deal in
her ambition, but to accomplish all that you say, one needs a loftier stimulant, a worthier
motive, than a woman's love."

"Ah! 'tis not you who have tasted the experience," he answered, "'tis I, and now, I answer
safely, when asked by a less fortunate man, the secret of my success, 'Go, seek the society
of high-minded, noble women, you will learn your duty, from their lips, as none others can
teach it,' and believe me, Honor, this I know to have been the rescue of many, and you are
the indirect source of all this good. If then, I have learned so much as a stranger to you,
is it likely I can ever regret the fortunate step that will bring me under the immediate guidance
of your hand and heart? Ah no! Honor, I will never again know what regret is."

