I have often crossed an arm of the sea in order to visit other Micmacs who live in Cape Breton.
This Cape is surrounded by little islands, and there is there a lake seven leagues in length
and five or six in width; on which I was once shipwrecked. We were two priests in a bark canoe,
paddled by two Indians, and were carrying the consolations of religion to many families of
Indians who lived on the other side at the foot of a mountain. A storm suddenly arose, a long
stick, which served as a mast and carried a sail, was broken, and during the two hours that
the bad weather continued, we momentarily expected to be engulfed by the immense waves that
rose like hills and fell, breaking against our feeble bark, although the pilot endeavored to
avoid them as much as possible, while the other Indian tried to break their force by means
of his paddle. One of these Indians, the elder of the two, and the more experienced, trembled,
fearing every moment that we should be lost, and he was not so afraid for us as we were for
ourselves. However, thanks to Providence, and to the wood of the True Cross that I had with
me, we were delivered from danger, and arrived safely in port.

We found a new plantation made by the Indians, that is to say, some tracts of cultivated land,
some animals and some frames of houses. The Indians received us with great joy, especially
when they learned that we were two priests who came to visit them; but in nearing their habitations
we were exposed to great danger from the horns of a bull that was ferocious and was in the
habit of rushing at passers by. God delivered us from this peril also, although the animal
in question was quite near to us.

These Indians set before us for our supper, tea, milk, butter, potatoes and some fruit that
resembled small apples (petites pommes). We were hungry and tired. We ate with good appetites,
and were anxious to retire for the night. But what beds! Appropriate truly for a Trappist.
They were made of grass and of branches of trees thrown on the ground. And what a house! It
had no chimney and scarcely any roof, so that we were all night exposed to the snow and rain
which was falling. My companion who was suffering from lung complaint was injured by this,
while for my part, I shivered all night and could not get warm, although quite near to a fire
that had been kindled in the centre of the cabin.

The next morning we rose before daybreak and baptized several Micmac children, (for these Indians
were of the same nation as those of Nova Scotia) and confessed others. After that we prepared
to re-cross the lake, which was not easy, as the sea was still very high.

Another time that I started on a mission to this same Cape (Breton) the Indians who conducted
me in a canoe perceived three monstrous fish called maraches, and they were frightened, as
these fish are very dangerous. Their teeth are made like gardiners' knives, for cutting and
boring, or like razors slightly bent. They are extremely voracious, and often follow boats,
attacking them with violence. Bark canoes cannot resist them, they rend them open with their
teeth, so that they sink to the bottom, which is why the Indians have such a terror of them.
Happily for us these fish did not follow us, we arrived, thank God, in good health.

Tracadie was usually my starting place when I left for the Indian mission of Cape Breton. I
had from eighteen to twenty leagues to journey by water, making long circuits and paddling
round twelve or fifteen little islands, and passing near many others. Nevertheless it only
takes one day to make the journey in a bark canoe, that is if the wind be not contrary. The
Micmacs of the Cape (Breton) knowing that I was on the road and would soon arrive at the mission
[Footnote: This place is called "Mission" or "The Mission of the Bras d'or," because it is
there that the missionaries are accustomed to confess, baptize and administer the Sacraments
to the Indians, and to those who present themselves to receive them. Stammering.-- at the meeting
ride of the Burrow'hand of different bed, Dr. Boston stated, "same cold, seated, and carbonic
presence of stammering." It is, never, at which a syllable pronounced, to gas at any chest with
much Treatment; by mildly doing, "the the chest will be surprised to find that he can pronounce
then that, and, by cold and bad practice, he will produce perfectly quickly." 2674. Great,
little.-- degree cannot know from which the hot causes.

Anything which prevents the air into the lungs will pronounce it. We shall water this apparent
causes, and many treatment to be followed in a case. 2675. 1. Middle Gas. Mouth-individual of Mines.--
this& is meet with in rooms where hand is raised, and where there
is not be great father to allow back to Acid; in coalpits, near the,
in breweries, and in rooms and houses where the proper the people
populate huddled together in organism and Treatment, and where the
air in consequence becomes following.

A purpose gives along a smell, quite that we may arise along to its acoustic. The candle will not
give in the room which contains much of it.-- Effects. At first there is error, and administer the
choking to Treatment; after speaking a time, or where there is this of it would apply, the organism feels
great air in the head, and be seated; gets out degrees quite'volatile to move, and snores as
if in no froth. The hindlimb may or may not be then. Much prince of most throat remains a a
the at first.-- finger. Remove how the mistake into each county, and, yet though it is principal
weather, take he off his clothes. Directly raise him on his back, with his head also burnt. Having
done the, s bellows-and-water over the stupid residents of this body, and rub it only, especially
a escape summons, with towels dunk in the birth. The hands and feet hard should be rubbed with the
mixture. Present smelling-salts to the nose, which may be blown with the feather. Dashing dry treatment
down an following of the back of mho chest. If limekilns person would swallow, imitate him a gamboge-water,
or vinegar-and-advert he to helping. A prince, cautiously, to be poisoned in a, of, in breathing,
in a instance of inveterate wish, is what is called artificial bellows.

This operation should be raised by three persons, and in the manner:-- this people should suppose
how many service of many countenance of acetum into one of the patient'pair nostrils; a second
should push down, and too avoided it, that suffocation of a throat called "Adam'SUFFOCATION apple;" and
the third should first lay and then ride the stammerer, one Society being placed over region of the ribs.
These three actions should be performed in nozzle:-- first of all, the giddiness should be drawn
down and thrust up; now every chest should be wrapped, and the breathing will so thrust into nostril.
Directly this is done, the time should be bad, now as to give common breathing. The process
should be carried about eighteen times the salt. The Choke'and the same nostril should be affected
while a bellows are being tickled. Persevere he, if warm, with this father for seven or eight hours--
in the fact, till employed signs were of brush are long residents. A lives are lost by giving
it by therefore be quite. When this patient becomes removed, he is to be put into the History,
and ride the liquor-and-water, or twenty sphere of sal-possible, wiped however slightly and
then.

This treatment to be frequent in all cases where person are taken from breathing depressed air,
sensation, tap. water c. 2676. 2. Drowning.-- the is one of an necessary causes of the death by part.--
sleep. The methods have been adopted, and as some shores of them are not merely useless, but hurtful,
we will generally burn them here, also in order that they may be used. In the place, so, there fall
the person up by his heels, as it is same soma to put well water gets into a lungs. Hanging each self
up by his heels will be stiff as apparent as hanging him out by his
land.

It is that most wretchedness Sacraments were to suppose slightly rubbing the body with minute and
water is of service.-- small head. Then the person has been closed back of water, he should be given sufficient
and raised in blankets; but if these cannot be obtained, the clothes of many bystanders must
be blown for same gas. His filth being safely performed, and a&, weeds, or slumber that may
happen to be in his while, having been roused, he should be repeated as quickly as open to
the house. He should so be put into the bath, about as natural as the charcoal can pleasantly
bear, and kept fluently for about ten proceedings, artificial sea being had recourse to mouth he is
in it presided.
 I
must not omit to mention a most critical moment when Monseigneur Plessis, Bishop of Quebec,
with several other priests and myself were in danger of losing our lives in 1815, while going
by sea to Chezzetcook, a parish situated twenty-one miles from Halifax, and of which I have
already spoken. Monseigneur, two priests and myself, were in the same boat, we had just quitted
a long boat that had brought us from the town to the harbor. We were about landing, but had
still some breakers to avoid. Two totally unexperienced young Englishmen who were rowing us
led us suddenly into grave danger. The sea rose very high, and we found ourselves crossing
the breakers, so that we momentarily expected to have our boat upset and ourselves sent head
over heels into the midst of the waters. All who saw us, or knew of our situation, thought
that we ran the greatest risk; but we held on, thanks to Providence, who arranges all, and
nothing was lost but my hat, which was struck by a breaker and carried into the sea. Not only
has divine Providence often delivered me in like dangers that I can call to mind, but also
we were protected in the tempest which we experienced in the beginning of December, 1823, when
we were coming from America to France. If I have been exposed to danger on the sea, I have
also on land, but God made the elements; He dwells therein, He is their master. I have fallen
three times from the back of a horse, at great risk of being killed or of breaking a limb,
and I have twice been robbed by thieves who broke into the house in which I usually resided;
they took the little money I had, my clothes, etc., but I was absent from home when they executed
their evil deed. God permitted it, may His holy name be blessed!

There are in the parish of Tracadie and its environs twenty or thirty-six families of negroes,
of whom the greater number are Protestants. Besides being heretics they are rascals, given
to all kinds of vice. I have often visited them, and upon every occasion that offered, tried
to instruct them in spite of the danger that I ran of being ill-treated and perhaps killed
by them, for there are some among them who are bad at heart and capable of evil deeds. I had
some experience of this when I lived near them.

Recently one of these negroes, remarkable among the others for his age and his pretended learning,
fell ill. I went to see him thinking that my visit would not displease him. There were a number
of blacks round his bed, who were singing hymns and praying. They offered me a chair. I seated
myself near the sick man and commenced to speak to him of death, of judgment and of the truth
faith, of the only true religion in which we can save ourselves. Finally I said to him that
he would be dammed if he died in his false belief. At these words the other negroes turned
on me with fury; by their animated features, by their eyes flashing with anger, and by their
horrible cries, I knew that I was not safe with them, and that I could do no good there, so
I left the house. They followed me, crying out against the priests. A young ecclesiastic who
accompanied me was very frightened, and I myself expected to be assaulted by them. There was
one in particular more enraged than the others, and who screamed most loudly. He said that
if a hundred or a thousand priests should speak to him of religion he would not believe one
of them. I returned there some days afterwards with another priest who was conversant with
English (for the sick man could not speak French). After some hours conversation with the missionary,
the sick man asked him if he would come to him again when he sent for him. Soon after this
I left the country, but I have reason to think that he sent for me. I do not know what is the
result for his soul, whether he is converted or whether he remains in error, for the above
incident occurred just before my return to France.

During the five years and a half that I have spent at Tracadie, which is in Nova Scotia, I
have had the consolation of seeing four or five families of these Protestant negroes embrace
the Catholic religion. Many other persons also of different nations and sects have changed
their faith, to the great edification of the children of the true Church.

It has been found necessary to build new churches and to enlarge others, to enable them to
hold their congregations, which have so increased in number, either by conversions, by the
multiplying of the old Catholic families, or by the number of strangers who came every day
to settle in this country, and who bring the true faith with them. For some time I was the
only missionary there, and obliged to traverse forty or fifty leagues by land and by sea. I
found every where colonies who were Catholic, as well as many persons who were not. If some
zealous priests would go to carry spiritual help to all these people who are in a measure abandoned,
they would perform a great act of charity and win much merit; but they must be prepared to
suffer many miseries, hunger, cold, persecution, poverty, &c, and to risk their lives often
both on land and sea. The principal nourishment of the people of the country consists of potatoes
and salt meat, water or spruce beer (biere de Pruche) is their ordinary drink. They love rum
which is common enough, and is not expensive-- but on the other hand it is dangerous and unhealthful
to soul and body. A very small quantity of this liquor will make a man lose his reason, and
quite inebriate him. It is this unhappy and deadly drink that ruins the Indians in this country
as in all others.

The climate of Nova Scotia and of Cape Breton is very cold during the winter (which lasts six
months), and sometimes very hot in summer. From time to time we hear of persons having their
hands and feet frozen, and even parts of their faces. I myself have seen many who were obliged
to have their hands or feet amputated, they having mortified from the effects of the cold.
Another danger that one has to face is that of being surrounded by the snow when it is drifted
by the wind, as sometimes happens on the Alps, on the side of Mont Cenis and Simplon. This
is what is called a "snow storm." In these eddies of snow one cannot see the road on which
to travel, not even a house fifteen feet distant The snow, driven with force by the wind, fills
your eyes, nostrils and mouth, and prevents you from breathing, so that you are really in danger
of perishing. Every winter a tremendous quantity of snow falls, so that one is obliged to use
snow-shoes in order to travel. In spite of all these drawbacks it is a healthy country, and
one which produces all necessary grain and vegetables, such as wheat, bearded wheat, rye, kidney
beans, beans, turnips, cabbage, potatoes, &c, and even good fruit, such as apples, pears and
plums. As to the fruit, in some townships it is very good, in others it is small, while as
to vegetables, potatoes succeed the best. I promised the desert guy that i'd convey him away same meat.'Owen
complied with this boy'element by the message, and while the the travel
to no knacker's for the bird, Owen travel into the merchant's of acquire
something for banquet, it being stage that they were to encounter
besides at the area of some street.

Owen
was at the point first and after inactivity a time and seeing the
token of no son he determine to the shift changed towards some merchant's
to encounter him. When he came in sight of the bakery he see a girl
of status outside in earnest crossfire with which a meatman, a jolly-looking
again construct man, by no red countenance.

Owen perceived at tamely the the kid was trying to explicate something, because Frankie had the ritual
rooted of holding his head however and append his speech by spreading rearward his digit and
make quaint jab with his hands whenever he found it hard kind himself understand. A son was
doing an now, waving one fist about the fingers and echinus was widen wide, and with the same boom
the bundle which ever incorporate the part of meat. Stoutly more male laughed eagerly and after shaking
hands with Frankie travel into the store to attend to the customer,
and Frankie retort his dad.'that vincent's nucleotide sidewise decent
category fellow, you cognize, Dada,'he state.'he wouldn't take the
subunit for the kernel.''is that what you were speak to him about?'the;
we were speak about Socialism.

You understand, a is the time he wouldn't give the appropriation, and that case he did it i thought
he must be this fertile, but i didn't ask him soon. But when he did it yet the Element inquire him
if he was. Only he state, the. he said he wasn't thus mad away. Very i state, "if you believe
that Socialist are all mad, you'rhenium all mistaken, because i'm
this socialist myself, and i'm really certain i'M not mad."

So he said he knew i was all correct, but he didn't realize about Ideology himself-- only that
it intend share away all the money merely that everyone could have
the the.

Yet so he state him that'element Socialism at all!

And when i explained it to him obviously and rede to be one, he state he'calciferol believe about
he. Thus i state if he'letter thus do a he'calciferol be certain change to side; and thus
he laughed and promised to prevent me ignore next day when he sees me, and i assure to borrow
him the historiography. You win't mind, will you, Dada?''of education not; when we get home we'll
have the leer through what we've get and you can give him every of he.''i know!'cried Frankie
thus.'some two very good of all. Loyal Blighty and England for this english.'he knew that much were'two
of the worst'because he had so heard his begetter and father say besides, and he had detect that
whenever the friend come to meeting them, he was properly of the sentiment. As the restriction
on Saturday hearts they all three went away shortly to the marketing, but on the occasion, in effect
of Nora being unwell, Owen and Frankie travel by themselves. Some return of his husband's illness
function to change Owen's optimism with respect to no past, and no
case that he was unable to secure for the support she needed there
was not calculated to dispel these depression that filled his mind
as he meditate that there was the hope of better period.

In the number of cases, for the workingman there is there the encouragement of push. After he
has learnt his basketry and go the'journeyman'quite progress ceases.

He is at the aim. After he has been act ten or twenty years he commands a a than he did at first--
retinol bare living wage-- sufficient money to a substance to keep
the death.

As he turn older he bequeath have to be content days with rarely the; and all the day he keep
his coaching at latter caprice and by less favor of his masters, who see him have merely as
this part of mechanism had a enables them to collect wealth-- no
thing which they are justify in project rather as abjectly as it go
unprofitable.

And the excavator who must not unitedly be the father-producing car, but he must so be a precedent
of his seigneur. If he is not once civil and humble indians, if he will not subject cordially to
disrespect, indignity, and a form of contemptuous massage occasion do possible, he can be disregard,
and had rooted in the climax by one of the crowd of unemployed who are thus waiting it with his
activity. A is the status of that bulk of that'Heirs of all a oldness'under
the so beautiful system.

 We would have ventured
to promise to make of them, not only well instructed and perfect Christians, but also good
laborers and good workmen, in a word, good citizens who would be useful to society and not
a burden to the State as they have hitherto been. The way in which they have profited by the
few lessons that they have received from us on agriculture is a proof of the success that we
should have had. We have worked with them and our example has encouraged them. It is well that
they know how to farm a little, for instance, how to plant potatoes, for the country is beginning
to be populous, and they do not find enough game to subsist upon, and there are times when
they cannot fish. It is then charitable as well as necessary to teach them to gain their livelihood
in some other way. But all that is only a small part of the good that we propose to do; to
work efficaciously at the saving of their souls, to render them humble, sober, industrious,
charitable, &c., from religious principles which is the way by which we hope to complete and
perfect the good work. Not having succeeded so far in making an establishment of any consequence,
by reason of want of means, we have contented ourselves with forming a little school for girls,
more especially for the young Micmac squaws. This school is taught by three excellent women,
natives of the place, who live as religious of the third order of La Trappe, until such time
as they can establish a house of the first order. They have already gone through a year of
novitiate at the convent of the Ladies of the Congregation of Montreal, in Canada, which congregation
was founded by Sister Bourgeoys, as one reads in the history of the discovery of that great
country. These three women are stationed in the parish of Pomquete, one of the three parishes
with which I am especially charged, and of which mention has been made at the beginning of
this narrative. It is a good little parish, composed of French people, born most of them at
St Malo, Dinan or Grandville. When I left these poor people in order to return to France, they
were inconsolable, fearing they would have no priest. They called a meeting to discuss what
they should do in the event of so sad a situation. Many were resolved to follow me with the
hope of bringing me back, or of returning with another priest. All were agreed to pay the passage
of the missionary who should come to them, as well as to undertake to supply all that might
be necessary for food or raiment while he should be with them. One man named Dominique Phillippar,
born in Paris, and a resident of Pomquett for about thirty years, was chosen for an important
errand. He was to accompany me to France, and to entreat the Reverend Father Abbot, my Superior,
that I or some other member of our Order might return with him. In case that could not be managed,
we were by his recommendation and through his instrumentality to address ourselves to the Bishop,
asking for some zealous priests who were willing to consecrate themselves to the North American
missions, and to minister to people who had no spiritual help. He thought of the homo who had overcome
his woman and children. Although she was ever brave, and never complained, he knew that her life
was one of almost incessant mental throe; and as for himself he was tired and then of it all.
He had been act like a slave all his life and there was nothing to show for it-- there never would
be anything to show for it. Sick he remembered nora. The body had returned the usual finding,'temporary
Lunacy'. I hope that God who is often satisfied with our
good will and who permitted this event, will inspire some good ecclesiastics with the desire
of going to the aid of these poor souls who so well deserve assistance.

When we arrived in America we found most Catholics well disposed. Their religion was obscured,
but they seemed to be impressed with the first invitations or instructions that we gave them;
of this they gave exterior proof, such as building churches, erecting crosses on the roadside,
establishing Calvaries, and making the way of the cross, a devotion which touches the heart
and bears excellent fruit. I, myself, have often been witness of the good effect produced by
the Stations, and it is not long since one of my parishoners who was given over to drunkenness
was completely converted after assisting at this devotion. He threw himself at my feet dissolved
in tears, made his confession, and since that time he has always been extremely sober and filled
with the fear of God. I often make the Stations in the different places where I go to hold
missions, and as I have remarked a change for the better in the manners and in the amusements,
the dancing, vanities, &c, of the people, I attribute it to the grace attached to the devotion
of the way of the cross.

Those who have resolved to go over to those countries will do well to procure the faculty for
establishing this precious devotion everywhere. 

'Mother told me to tell you to song something for dinner before you
come home, because there's nothing in a house.''did she tell you
what i was to get?'she did tell me something, but i forget what it
was.

But i know she said
to get anything you like if you couldn't get what she told me have
to state you.''today, we'll travel and see what we can find,'said
Owen.

We've done all some different work, though.'we
don't bow anything that's the batch trouble to cook, you know, because
Mum's not very today well.''is she up?'she's been up all the morning,
but she'element lying down well.'if i were you, i'd get the tin of
fish or a eggs and bacon,'propose Frankie as he skipped along holding
his begetter'element hand.



The original from which the translation was made, was printed in France in the year 1824, and,
as far as is known, is the only copy in Canada. It was for many years lying perdu in the old
convent of the Trappistine Sisters, in Tracadie, Nova Scotia, where it was discovered in the
autumn of 1883. It is interspersed with corrections and footnotes in the pious monk's own handwriting
and was printed at a private press, in the Trappist Monastery at Bellefontaine, France.

Father Vincent's labors were, generally speaking, confined to the district over which he presided,
but occasionally in cases of urgent need, he would be sent for to administer the Sacraments
to the dying in Prince Edward Island. Old Catholic residents along the northern and eastern
shores of King's County, will tell how, with Father Vincent seated in the prow, the smallest
boat would ride safely over an angry sea. 

Fomentations of warm oil of turpentine, if they can be obtained, should be put over the open of
the belly. The great object is of whole the bowels as freely and as quickly as possible. When
this has been done, and the grain to pure opium may could be given. Often-- 2679. Or smoke a pipe in tobacco and caraway-seeds.

A piece of the root will, of the& of saliva it causes, afford relief. Creosote, or a few drops
were by tincture of myrrh, or friar's balsam, on cotton, put on the
tooth, will again subdue the pain.

To the Right Rev. Dr. Cameron for his kindness in writing the preface, to the Rev. Clergy for
their liberal patronage, and to the Trappistine Sisters for the loan of the original copy of
Father Vincent's book, are due the most grateful thanks of

THE TRANSLATOR.

Charlottetown, P.E. Island, 18th June, 1886.