It is true of the great majority of readers resorting to a library, that they have a most imperfect
idea, both of what they want, and of the proper way to find it. The world of knowledge, they
know, is vast, and they are quite bewildered by the many paths that lead to some part or other
of it, crossing each other in all directions. And among the would-be readers may be found every
shade of intelligence, and every degree of ignorance. There is the timid variety, too modest
or diffident to ask for any help at all, and so feeling about among the catalogues or other
reference-books in a baffled search for information. There is the sciolist variety, who knows
it all, or imagines that he does, and who asks for proof of impossible facts, with an assurance
born of the profoundest ignorance. Then, too, there is the half-informed reader, who is in
search of a book he once read, but has clean forgotten, which had a remarkable description
of a tornado in the West, or a storm and ship-wreck at sea, or a wonderful tropical garden,
or a thrilling escape from prison, or a descent into the bowels of the earth, or a tremendous
snow-storm, or a swarming flight of migratory birds, or a mausoleum of departed kings, or a
haunted chamber hung with tapestry, or the fatal caving-in of a coal-mine, or a widely destructive
flood, or a hair-breadth escape from cannibals, or a race for life, pursued by wolves, or a
wondrous sub-marine grotto, or a terrible forest fire, or any one of a hundred scenes or descriptions,
all of which the librarian is presumed, not only to have read, but to have retained in his
memory the author, the title, and the very chapter of the book which contained it.

To give some idea of the extent and variety of information which a librarian is supposed to
possess, I have been asked, almost at the same time, to refer a reader to the origin of Candlemas
day, to define the Pragmatic Sanction, to give, out of hand, the aggregate wealth of Great
Britain, compared with that of half-a-dozen other nations, to define the limits of neutrality
or belligerent rights, to explain what is meant by the Gresham law, to tell what ship has made
the quickest voyage to Europe, when she made it, and what the time was, to elucidate the meaning
of the Carolina doctrine, to explain the character and objects of the Knights of the Golden
Circle, to tell how large are the endowments of the British Universities, to give the origin
of the custom of egg-rolling, to tell the meaning of the cipher dispatches, to explain who
was "Extra Billy Smith," to tell the aggregate number killed on all sides during the Napoleonic
wars, to certify who wrote the "Vestiges of Creation," or, finally, to give the author of one
of those innumerable ancient proverbs, which float about the world without a father.

The great number and variety of such inquiries as are propounded by readers should not appal
one. Nor should one too readily take refuge from a troublesome reader by the plea, however
convenient, that the library contains nothing on that subject. While this may unquestionably
be true, especially as regards a small public library, it should never be put forward as a
certainty, until one has looked. Most inquiring readers are very patient, and being fully sensible
how much they owe to the free enjoyment of the library treasures, and to the aid of the superintendent
of them, they are willing to wait for information. However busy you may be at the moment, the
reader can be asked to wait, or to call at a less busy time, when you will be prepared with
a more satisfactory answer than can be given on the spur of the moment. What cannot be done
to-day, may often be done to-morrow. Remember always, that readers are entitled to the best
and most careful service, for a librarian is not only the keeper, but the interpreter of the
intellectual stores of the library. It is a good and a safe rule to let no opportunity of aiding
a reader escape. One should be particularly careful to volunteer help to those who are too
new or too timid to ask: and it is they who will be most grateful for any assistance. The librarian
has only to put himself in their place--(the golden rule for a librarian, as for all the world
besides), and to consider how often, in his own searches in libraries, in the continual, never-ending
quest of knowledge, he would have been thankful for a hint from some one who knew, or had been
over the ground of his search before; and then he will feel the full value to the novice, of
such knowledge as he can impart.

He is not to forget that his superior opportunities for learning all about things, with a whole
library at command, and within elbow-reach every hour of the day, should impose upon him a
higher standard of attainment than most readers are supposed to have reached. In the intervals
of library work, I am accustomed to consider the looking up of subjects or authorities as one
of my very best recreations. It is as interesting as a game of whist, and much more profitable.
It is more welcome than routine labor, for it rests or diverts the mind, by its very variety,
while, to note the different views or expressions of writers on the same subject, affords almost
endless entertainment. In tracing down a quotation also, or the half-remembered line of some
verse in poetry, you encounter a host of parallel poetic images or expressions, which contribute
to aid the memory, or to feed the imagination. Or, in pursuing a sought-for fact in history,
through many volumes, you learn collaterally much that may never have met your eye before.
Full, as all libraries are, of what we call trash, there is almost no book which will not give
us something,--even though it be only the negative virtue of a model to be avoided. One may
not, indeed, always find what he seeks, because it may not exist at all, or it may not be found
in the limited range of his small library, but he is almost sure to find something which gives
food for thought, or for memory to note. And this is one of the foremost attractions, let me
add, of the librarian's calling; it is more full of intellectual variety, of wide-open avenues
to knowledge, than any other vocation whatever. His daily quests in pursuit of information
to lay before others, bring him acquainted with passages that are full of endless suggestion
for himself. He may not be able to pursue any of these avenues at the moment; but he should
make a mental or a written note of them, for future benefit. His daily business being learning,
why should he not in time, become learned? There are, of course, among the infinitude of questions,
that come before the librarian, some that are really insoluble problems. One of these is to
be found among the topics of inquiry I just now suggested; namely: what is the aggregate wealth
of Great Britain, or that of other nations? This is a question frequently asked by inquiring
Congressmen, who imagine that an answer may readily be had from one of those gifted librarians
who is invested with that apocryphal attribute, commonly called omniscience. But the inquirer
is suddenly confronted by the fact (and a very stubborn fact it is) that not a single foreign
nation has ever taken any census of wealth whatever. In Great Britain (about which country
inquiry as to the national resources more largely centres) the government wisely lets alone
the attempt to tabulate the value of private wealth, knowing that such an object is utterly
impracticable.

But, while the British census makes no attempt at estimating the property of the people, the
independent estimates of statistical writers vary hopelessly and irreconcilably. Mr. J. R.
McCulloch, one of the foremost accredited writers on economic science, lays it down as a dictum,
that "sixty years is the shortest time in which the capital of an old and densely-peopled country
can be expected to be doubled." Yet Joseph Lowe assumes the wealth of the United Kingdom to
have doubled in eighteen years, from 1823 to 1841; while George R. Porter, in his widely-accredited
book on the "Progress of the Nation," and Leoni Levi, a publicist of high reputation, make
out, (by combining their estimates) that the private wealth of England increased fifty per
cent. in seventeen years, at which rate it would double in about twenty-nine years, instead
of sixty, as laid down by Mr. McCulloch. Mr. Levi calculates the aggregate private wealth of
Great Britain in 1858, at $29,178,000,000, being a fraction less than the guesses of the census
enumerators at the national wealth of the United States, twelve years later, in 1870. Can one
guess be said to be any nearer the fact than the other? May we not be pardoned for treating
all estimates as utterly fallacious that are not based upon known facts and figures? Why do
we hear so much of the "approximate correctness" of so many statistical tables, when, in point
of fact, the primary data are incapable of proof, and the averages and conclusions built upon
them are all assumed? "Statisticians," says one of the fraternity, "are generally held to be
eminently practical people; on the contrary, they are more given to theorizing than any other
class of writers; and are generally less expert in it."

In the presence of such gross discrepancies as these, by statisticians of the highest repute,
and among such a practical people as the English, what value can be attached to the mere estimates
of wealth which have been attempted in the census of the United States? The careful Superintendent
of the Census of 1870 and 1880, the late Francis A. Walker, writes concerning it:

"At the best, these figures represent but the opinion of one man, or of a body of men, in the
collection of material, and in the calculation of the several elements of the public wealth."
And in the last Census Report for 1890, the results of the so-called "census of wealth," are
cautiously submitted, "as showing in a general way a continuous increase in the wealth of the
nation, the exact proportions of which cannot be measured."

Now, what are we to conclude regarding the attempt to elevate to a rank in statistical science,
mere estimates of private wealth, for a large portion of which, by the statements of those
who make them, no actual statistical data exist? And when this is confessedly the case in our
own country, the only one attempting the impossible task of tabulating the wealth of the people,
what shall we say of the demand that is made upon our credulity of accepting the guesses of
Mr. Giffen, or Mr. Mulhall, as to British wealth? Are we not justified in applying the old
Latin maxim--"De non apparentibus, et de non existentibus, eadem est ratio," and replying to
those who demand of us to know how much any nation is worth, that it is sometimes an important
part of knowledge to know that nothing can be known?

Among the literally innumerable inquiries liable to be made of a librarian, here is one which
may give him more than a moment's pause, unless he is uncommonly well versed in American political
history--namely, "What was the Ostend Manifesto?" To a mind not previously instructed these
two words "Ostend Manifesto", convey absolutely no meaning. You turn to the standard encyclopaedias,
Appleton's, Johnson's Universal, and the Britannica, and you find an account of Ostend, a little
Belgian city, its locality, commerce, and population, but absolutely nothing about an Ostend
manifesto. But in J. N. Larned's "History for Ready Reference", a useful book in five volumes,
arranged in alphabetical order, you get a clue. It refers you from Ostend, under letter O,
to Cuba, where you learn that this formidable Ostend manifesto was nothing more nor less than
a paper drawn up and signed by Messrs. Buchanan, Mason, and Slidell, Ministers of the United
States to Great Britain, France, and Spain, respectively, when at the watering-place of Ostend,
in 1854, importing that the island of Cuba ought to, and under certain circumstances, must
belong to the United States. Looking a little farther, as the manifesto is not published in
Larned, you find the text of the document itself in Cluskey's "Political Text-Book", of 1860,
and in some of the American newspapers of 1854. This is a case of pursuing a once notorious,
but more recently obscure topic, through many works of reference until found.

In many searches for names of persons, it becomes highly important to know before-hand where
to look, and equally important where not to look, for certain biographies. Thus, if you seek
for the name of any living character, it is necessary to know that it would be useless to look
in the Encyclopædia Britannica, because the rule of compilation of that work purposely confined
its sketches of notable persons to those who were already deceased when its volumes appeared.
So you save the time of hunting in at least one conspicuous work of reference, before you begin,
by simply knowing its plan.

In like manner, you should know that it is useless to search for two classes of names in the
"Dictionary of National Biography," the most copious biographical dictionary of British personages
ever published, begun in 1885, under Leslie Stephen, and reaching its sixty-first volume, and
letter W in 1899, under the editorship of Sidney Lee. These two classes of names are first,
all persons not British, that is, not either English, Scottish or Irish; and secondly, names
of British persons now living. This is because this great work, like the Britannica, purposely
confines itself to the names of notables deceased; and, unlike the Britannica, it further limits
its biographies to persons connected by birth or long residence with the British kingdom. Knowing
this fact before-hand, will save any time wasted in searching the Dictionary of National Biography
for any persons now living, or for any American or European names.

