The difference between the two lies perhaps in that the man with strong passions lives them,
while the man with weak passions is lived by them, so that while weak passions paralyze the
will, strong passions urge man to action. It is such an urge towards life, such a vitality
ever awake, which inspires Unamuno's multifarious activities in the realm of the mind. The
duties of his chair of Greek are the first claim upon his time. But then, his reading is prodigious,
as any reader of this book will realize for himself. Not only is he familiar with the stock-in-trade
of every intellectual worker--the Biblical, Greek, Roman, and Italian cultures--but there is
hardly anything worth reading in Europe and America which he has not read, and, but for the
Slav languages, in the original. Though never out of Spain, and seldom out of Salamanca, he
has succeeded in establishing direct connections with most of the intellectual leaders of the
world, and in gathering an astonishingly accurate knowledge of the spirit and literature of
foreign peoples. It was in his library at Salamanca that he once explained to an Englishman
the meaning of a particular Scotticism in Robert Burns; and it was there that he congratulated
another Englishman on his having read Rural Rides, "the hall-mark," he said, "of the man of
letters who is no mere man of letters, but also a man." From that corner of Castile, he has
poured out his spirit in essays, poetry, criticism, novels, philosophy, lectures, and public
meetings, and that daily toil of press article writing which is the duty rather than the privilege
of most present-day writers in Spain. Such are the many faces, moods, and movements in which
Unamuno appears before Spain and the world. And yet, despite this multiplicity and this dispersion,
the dominant impression which his personality leaves behind is that of a vigorous unity, an
unswerving concentration both of mind and purpose. Bagaria, the national caricaturist, a genius
of rhythm and character which the war revealed, but who was too good not to be overshadowed
by the facile art of Raemaekers (imagine Goya overshadowed by Reynolds!), once represented
Unamuno as an owl. A marvellous thrust at the heart of Unamuno's character. For all this vitality
and ever-moving activity of mind is shot through by the absolute immobility of two owlish eyes
piercing the darkness of spiritual night. And this intense gaze into the mystery is the steel
axis round which his spirit revolves and revolves in desperation; the unity under his multiplicity;
the one fire under his passions and the inspiration of his whole work and life.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was Unamuno himself who once said that the Basque is the alkaloid of the Spaniard. The saying
is true, so far as it goes. But it would be more accurate to say "one of the two alkaloids."
It is probable that if the Spanish character were analyzed--always provided that the Mediterranean
aspect of it be left aside as a thing apart--two main principles would be recognized in it--i.e.,
the Basque, richer in concentration, substance, strength; and the Andalusian, more given to
observation, grace, form. The two types are to this day socially opposed. The Andalusian is
a people which has lived down many civilizations, and in which even illiterate peasants possess
a kind of innate education. The Basques are a primitive people of mountaineers and fishermen,
in which even scholars have a peasant-like roughness not unlike the roughness of Scotch tweeds--or
character. It is the even balancing of these two elements--the force of the Northerner with
the grace of the Southerner--which gives the Castilian his admirable poise and explains the
graceful virility of men such as Fray Luis de León and the feminine strength of women such
as Queen Isabel and Santa Teresa. We are therefore led to expect in so forcible a representative
of the Basque race as Unamuno the more substantial and earnest features of the Spanish spirit.

Our expectation is not disappointed. And to begin with it appears in that very concentration
of his mind and soul on the mystery of man's destiny on earth. Unamuno is in earnest, in dead
earnest, as to this matter. This earnestness is a distinct Spanish, nay, Basque feature in
him. There is something of the stern attitude of Loyola about his "tragic sense of life," and
on this subject--under one form or another, his only subject--he admits no joke, no flippancy,
no subterfuge. A true heir of those great Spanish saints and mystics whose lifework was devoted
to the exploration of the kingdoms of faith, he is more human than they in that he has lost
hold of the firm ground where they had stuck their anchor. Yet, though loose in the modern
world, he refuses to be drawn away from the main business of the Christian, the saving of his
soul, which, in his interpretation, means the conquest of his immortality, his own immortality.

An individualist. Certainly. And he proudly claims the title. Nothing more refreshing in these
days of hoggish communistic cant than this great voice asserting the divine, the eternal rights
of the individual. But it is not with political rights that he is concerned. Political individualism,
when not a mere blind for the unlimited freedom of civil privateering, is but the outcome of
that abstract idea of man which he so energetically condemns as pedantic--that is, inhuman.
His opposition of the individual to society is not that of a puerile anarchist to a no less
puerile socialist. There is nothing childish about Unamuno. His assertion that society is for
the individual, not the individual for society, is made on a transcendental plane. It is not
the argument of liberty against authority--which can be easily answered on the rationalistic
plane by showing that authority is in its turn the liberty of the social or collective being,
a higher, more complex, and longer-living "individual" than the individual pure and simple.
It is rather the unanswerable argument of eternity against duration. Now that argument must
rest on a religious basis. And it is on a religious basis that Unamuno founds his individualism.
Hence the true Spanish flavour of his social theory, which will not allow itself to be set
down and analyzed into principles of ethics and politics, with their inevitable tendency to
degenerate into mere economics, but remains free and fluid and absolute, like the spirit.

Such an individualism has therefore none of the features of that childish half-thinking which
inspires most anarchists. It is, on the contrary, based on high thinking, the highest of all,
that which refuses to dwell on anything less than man's origin and destination. We are here
confronted with that humanistic tendency of the Spanish mind which can be observed as the dominant
feature of her arts and literature. All races are of course predominantly concerned with man.
But they all manifest their concern with a difference. Man is in Spain a concrete being, the
man of flesh and bones, and the whole man. He is neither subtilized into an idea by pure thinking
nor civilized into a gentleman by social laws and prejudices. Spanish art and letters deal
with concrete, tangible persons. Now, there is no more concrete, no more tangible person for
every one of us than ourself. Unamuno is therefore right in the line of Spanish tradition in
dealing predominantly--one might almost say always--with his own person. The feeling of the
awareness of one's own personality has seldom been more forcibly expressed than by Unamuno.
This is primarily due to the fact that he is himself obsessed by it. But in his expression
of it Unamuno derives also some strength from his own sense of matter and the material--again
a typically Spanish element of his character. Thus his human beings are as much body as soul,
or rather body and soul all in one, a union which he admirably renders by bold mixtures of
physical and spiritual metaphors, as in gozarse uno la carne del alma (to enjoy the flesh of
one's own soul).

In fact, Unamuno, as a true Spaniard which he is, refuses to surrender life to ideas, and that
is why he runs shy of abstractions, in which he sees but shrouds wherewith we cover dead thoughts.
He is solely concerned with his own life, nothing but his life, and the whole of his life.
An egotistical position? Perhaps. Unamuno, however, can and does answer the charge. We can
only know and feel humanity in the one human being which we have at hand. It is by penetrating
deep into ourselves that we find our brothers in us--branches of the same trunk which can only
touch each other by seeking their common origin. This searching within, Unamuno has undertaken
with a sincerity, a fearlessness which cannot be excelled. Nowhere will the reader find the
inner contradictions of a modern human being, who is at the same time healthy and capable of
thought set down with a greater respect for truth. Here the uncompromising tendency of the
Spanish race, whose eyes never turn away from nature, however unwelcome the sight, is strengthened
by that passion for life which burns in Unamuno. The suppression of the slightest thought or
feeling for the sake of intellectual order would appear to him as a despicable worldly trick.
Thus it is precisely because he does sincerely feel a passionate love of his own life that
he thinks out with such scrupulous accuracy every argument which he finds in his mind--his
own mind, a part of his life--against the possibility of life after death; but it is also because
he feels that, despite such conclusive arguments, his will to live perseveres, that he refuses
to his intellect the power to kill his faith. A knight-errant of the spirit, as he himself
calls the Spanish mystics, he starts for his adventures after having, like Hernán Cortés, burnt
his ships. But, is it necessary to enhance his figure by literary comparison? He is what he
wants to be, a man--in the striking expression which he chose as a title for one of his short
stories, nothing less than a whole man. Not a mere thinking machine, set to prove a theory,
nor an actor on the world stage, singing a well-built poem, well built at the price of many
a compromise; but a whole man, with all his affirmations and all his negations, all the pitiless
thoughts of a penetrating mind that denies, and all the desperate self-assertions of a soul
that yearns for eternal life.

This strife between enemy truths, the truth thought and the truth felt, or, as he himself puts
it, between veracity and sincerity, is Unamuno's raison d'être. And it is because the "Tragic
Sense of Life" is the most direct expression of it that this book is his masterpiece. The conflict
is here seen as reflected in the person of the author. The book opens by a definition of the
Spanish man, the "man of flesh and bones," illustrated by the consideration of the real living
men who stood behind the bookish figures of great philosophers and consciously or unconsciously
shaped and misshaped their doctrines in order to satisfy their own vital yearnings. This is
followed by the statement of the will to live or hunger for immortality, in the course of which
the usual subterfuges with which this all-important issue is evaded in philosophy, theology,
or mystic literature, are exposed and the real, concrete, "flesh and bones" character of the
immortality which men desire is reaffirmed. The Catholic position is then explained as the
vital attitude in the matter, summed up in Tertullian's Credo quia absurdum, and this is opposed
to the critical attitude which denies the possibility of individual survival in the sense previously
defined. Thus Unamuno leads us to his inner deadlock: his reason can rise no higher than scepticism,
and, unable to become vital, dies sterile; his faith, exacting anti-rational affirmations and
unable therefore to be apprehended by the logical mind, remains incommunicable. From the bottom
of this abyss Unamuno builds up his theory of life. But is it a theory? Unamuno does not claim
for it such an intellectual dignity. He knows too well that in the constructive part of his
book his vital self takes the leading part and repeatedly warns his reader of the fact, lest
critical objections might be raised against this or that assumption or self-contradiction.
It is on the survival of his will to live, after all the onslaughts of his critical intellect,
that he finds the basis for his belief--or rather for his effort to believe. Self-compassion
leads to self-love, and this self-love, founded as it is on a universal conflict, widens into
love of all that lives and therefore wants to survive. So, by an act of love, springing from
our own hunger for immortality, we are led to give a conscience to the Universe--that is, to
create God.

Such is the process by which Unamuno, from the transcendental pessimism of his inner contradiction,
extracts an everyday optimism founded on love. His symbol of this attitude is the figure of
Don Quixote, of whom he truly says that his creed "can hardly be called idealism, since he
did not fight for ideas: it was spiritualism, for he fought for the spirit." Thus he opposes
a synthetical to an analytical attitude; a religious to an ethico-scientific ideal; Spain,
his Spain--i.e., the spiritual manifestation of the Spanish race--to Europe, his Europe--i.e.,
the intellectual manifestation of the white race, which he sees in Franco-Germany; and heroic
love, even when comically unpractical, to culture, which, in this book, written in 1912, is
already prophetically spelt Kultura.

