The personality of an American President has seldom undergone so much analysis with such unsatisfactory
results; almost every discussion of Wilson's characteristics leads to the generation of heat
rather than light. Indeed the historian of the future may ask whether it is as important, in
this age of democracy, to know exactly what sort of man he was as to know what the people thought
he was. And yet in the case of a statesman who was to play a rôle of supreme importance in
the affairs of the country and the world, it is perhaps more than a matter of merely personal
interest to underline his salient traits. Let it be premised that a logical and satisfactory
analysis is well-nigh impossible, for his nature is self-contradictory, subject to gusts of
temperament, and he himself has pictured the struggle that has gone on between the impulsive
Irish and the cautious Scotch elements in him. Thus it is that he has handled similar problems
in different ways at different times, and has produced upon different persons diametrically
opposed impressions.

As an executive, perhaps his most notable characteristic is the will to dominate. This does
not mean that he is the egocentric autocrat pictured by his opponents, for in conference he
is apt to be tolerant of the opinions of others, by no means dictatorial in manner, and apparently
anxious to obtain facts on both sides of the argument. An unfriendly critic, Mr. E. J. Dillon,
has said of him at Paris that "he was a very good listener, an intelligent questioner, and
amenable to argument whenever he felt free to give practical effect to his conclusions." Similar
evidence has been offered by members of his Cabinet. But unquestionably, in reaching a conclusion
he resents pressure and he permits no one to make up his mind for him; he is, said the German
Ambassador, "a recluse and lonely worker." One of his enthusiastic admirers has written: "Once
in possession of every fact in the case, the President withdraws, commences the business of
consideration, comparison, and assessment, and then emerges with a decision." From such a decision
it is difficult to shake him and continued opposition serves merely to stiffen his resolution.
Wherever the responsibility is his, he insists upon the finality of his judgment. Those who
have worked with him have remarked upon his eagerness, once he has decided a course of action,
to carry it into practical effect. The President of the Czecho-Slovak Republic, Thomas G. Masaryk,
said that of all the men he had met, "your visionary, idealistic President is by far and away
the most intensely practical." One of the Big Four at Paris remarked: "Wilson works. The rest
of us play, comparatively speaking. We Europeans can't keep up with a man who travels a straight
path with such a swift stride, never looking to right or left." But with all his eagerness
for practical effect he is notably less efficient in the execution than in the formation of
policies.

Wilson lacks, furthermore, the power of quick decision which is apt to characterize the masterful
executive. He is slow to make up his mind, a trait that results partly, perhaps, from his Scotch
blood and partly from his academic training. Except for his steadfast adherence to what he
regards as basic principles, he might rightly be termed an opportunist. For he is prone to
temporize, anxious to prevent an issue from approaching a crisis, evidently in the hope that
something may "turn up" to improve the situation and obviate the necessity of conflict. "Watchful
waiting" in the Mexican crises and his attitude towards the belligerents during the first two
years of the European war are cases in point. There are instances of impulsive action on his
part, when he has not waited for advice or troubled to acquire exact knowledge of the facts
underlying a situation, but such occasions have been infrequent.

Wilson's dislike of advice has been widely advertized. It is probably closer to the truth to
say that he is naturally suspicious of advisers unless he is certain that their basic point
of view is the same as his own. This is quite different from saying that he wants only opinions
that coincide with his own and that he immediately dispenses with advisers who disagree with
him. Colonel House, for example, who for five years exerted constant influence on his policy,
frequently advanced opinions quite at variance from those of the President, but such differences
did not weaken House's influence inasmuch as Wilson felt that they were both starting from
the same angle towards the same point. Prejudiced though he seemed to be against "financiers,"
Wilson took the opinions of Thomas W. Lamont at Paris, because the underlying object of both,
the acquisition of a secure peace, was identical. It is true, however, that with the exception
of Colonel House, Wilson's advisers have been in the main purveyors of facts rather than colleagues
in the formation of policies. Wilson has generally been anxious to receive facts which might
help him to build his policy, as will be attested by those who worked with him at Paris.[1]
But he was less interested in the opinions of his advisers, especially when it came to principles
and not details, for he decides principles for himself. In this sense his Cabinet was composed
of subordinates rather than counselors. Such an attitude is, of course, characteristic of most
modern executives and has been intensified by war conditions. The summary disregard of Lansing,
shown by Wilson at Paris, was less striking than the snubbing of Balfour by Lloyd George, or
the cold brutality with which Clemenceau treated the other French delegates. He debarred himself
from success in the matter of appointments, in the first place, by limiting his range of choice
through unwillingness to have about him those who did not share his point of view. It is more
epigrammatic than exact to say that he was the sole unit in the Government giving value to
a row of ciphers, for his Cabinet, as a whole, was not composed of weak men. But the fact that
the members of his Cabinet accepted implicitly his firm creed that the Cabinet ought to be
an executive and not a political council, that it depended upon the President's policy, and
that its main function should be merely to carry that policy into effect, gave to the public
some justification for its belief that Wilson's was a "one-man" Government. This belief was
further intensified by the President's extreme sensitiveness to hostile criticism, which more
than anything else hindered frank interchange of opinion between himself and strong personalities.
On more than one occasion he seemed to regard opposition as tantamount to personal hostility,
an attitude which at times was not entirely unjustified. In the matter of minor appointments
Wilson failed generally of success because he consistently refused to take a personal interest,
leaving them to subordinates and admitting that political necessities must go far to determine
the choice. Even in such an important problem as the appointment of the Peace Commission the
President seems to have made his selection almost at haphazard. Many of his war appointments
proved ultimately to be wise. But it is noteworthy that such men as Garfield, Baruch, and McCormick,
who amply justified their choice, were appointed because Wilson knew personally their capacity
and not because of previous success along special lines which would entitle them to public
confidence.

The obstinacy of the President has become proverbial. The square chin, unconsciously protruded
in argument, indicates definitely his capacity, as a British critic has put it, "to dig his
toes in and hold on." On matters of method, however, where a basic principle is not involved,
he is flexible. According as you approve or disapprove of him, he is "capable of development"
or "inconsistent." Thus he completely changed front on the question of preparedness from 1914
to 1916. When the question of the initiative and referendum arose in Oregon, his attitude was
the reverse of what it had been as professor of politics. When matters of detail are under
discussion, he has displayed much willingness for and some skill in compromise, as was abundantly
illustrated at Paris. But when he thinks that a principle is at stake, he prefers to accept
any consequences, no matter how disastrous to his policy; witness his refusal to accept the
Lodge reservation on Article X of the League Covenant.

All those included within the small circle of Wilson's intimates attest the charm and magnetism
of his personality. The breadth of his reading is reflected in his conversation, which is enlivened
by anecdotes that illustrate his points effectively and illumined by a sense of humor which
some of his friends regard as his most salient trait. His manner is marked by extreme courtesy
and, in view of the fixity of his opinions, a surprising lack of abruptness or dogmatism. But
he has never been able to capitalize such personal advantages in his political relations. Apart
from his intimates he is shy and reserved. The antithesis of Roosevelt, who loved to meet new
individualities, Wilson has the college professor's shrinking from social contacts, and is
not at ease in the presence of those with whom he is not familiar. Naturally, therefore, he
lacks completely Roosevelt's capacity to make friends, and there is in him no trace of his
predecessor's power to find exactly the right compliment for the right person. Under Roosevelt
the White House opened its doors to every one who could bring the President anything of interest,
whether in the field of science, literature, politics, or sport; and the Chief Magistrate,
no matter who his guest, instantly found a common ground for discussion. That capacity Wilson
did not possess. Furthermore his health was precarious and he was physically incapable of carrying
the burden of the constant interviews that characterized the life of his immediate predecessors
in the presidential office. He lived the life of a recluse and rarely received any one but
friends of the family at the White House dinner table.

While he thus saved himself from the social intercourse which for Roosevelt was a relaxation
but which for him would have proved a nervous and physical drain, Wilson deprived himself of
the political advantages that might have been derived from more extensive hospitality. He was
unable to influence Congressmen except by reason of his authority as head of the party or nation.
He lost many a chance of removing political opposition through the personal appeal which is
so flattering and effective. He seems to have thought that if his policy was right in itself,
Congressmen ought to vote for it, without the satisfaction of personal arguments, a singular
misappreciation of human nature. The same was true of his relations with the Washington correspondents;
he was never able to establish a man to man basis of intercourse. This incapacity in the vital
matter of human contacts was, perhaps, his greatest political weakness. If he had been able
to arouse warm personal devotion in his followers, if he could have inflamed them with enthusiasm
such as that inspired by Roosevelt, rather than mere admiration, Wilson would have found his
political task immeasurably lightened. It is not surprising that his mistakes in tactics should
have been so numerous. His isolation and dependence upon tactical advisers, such as Tumulty
and Burleson, lacking broad vision, led him into serious errors, most of which--such as his
appeal for a Democratic Congress in 1918, his selection of the personnel of the Peace Commission,
his refusal to compromise with the "mild reservationist Senators" in the summer of 1919--were
committed, significantly, when he was not in immediate contact with Colonel House.

The political strength of Wilson did not result primarily from intellectual power. His mind
is neither profound nor subtle. His serious writings are sound but not characterized by originality,
nor in his policies is there anything to indicate creative genius. He thinks straight and possesses
the ability to concentrate on a single line of effort. He is skillful in catching an idea and
adapting it to his purposes. Combined with his power of expression and his talent for making
phrases, such qualities were of great assistance to him. But the real strength of the President
lay rather in his gift of sensing what the common people wanted and his ability to put it into
words for them. Few of his speeches are great; many of them are marred by tactless phrases,
such as "too proud to fight" and "peace without victory." But nearly all of them express honestly
the desires of the masses. His strength in New Jersey and the extraordinary effect produced
in Europe by his war speeches might be cited as evidence of this peculiar power. He sought
above everything to catch the trend of inarticulate rather than vociferous opinion. If one
objects that his patience under German outrages was not truly representative, we must remember
that opinion was slow in crystallizing, that his policy was endorsed by the election of 1916,
and that when he finally advocated war in April, 1917, the country entered the struggle practically
a unit.

But it is obvious that, however much political strength was assured the President by his instinctive
appreciation of popular feeling, this was largely offset by the gaucherie of his political
tactics. He had a genius for alienating persons who should have supported him and who agreed
in general with the broad lines of his policies. Few men in public life have so thoroughly
aroused the dislike of "the man in the street." Admitting that much of Wilson's unpopularity
resulted from misunderstanding, from the feeling that he was a different sort, perhaps a "highbrow,"
the degree of dislike felt for him becomes almost inexplicable in the case of a President who,
from all the evidence, was willing to sacrifice everything for what he considered to be the
benefit of the common man. He might almost repeat Robespierre's final bitter and puzzled phrase:
"To die for the people and to be abhorred by them." So keen was the irritation aroused by Wilson's
methods and personality that many a citizen stated frankly that he preferred to see Wilsonian
policies which he approved meet defeat, rather than see them carried to success by Wilson.
This executive failing of the President was destined to jeopardize the greatest of his policies
and to result in the personal tragedy of Wilson himself.

Certain large political principles stand out in Wilson's writings and career as Governor and
President. Of these the most striking, perhaps, is his conviction that the President of the
United States must be something more than a mere executive superintendent. The entire responsibility
for the administration of government, he believed, should rest upon the President, and in order
to meet that responsibility, he must keep the reins of control in his own hands. In his first
essays and in his later writings Wilson expressed his disgust with the system of congressional
committees which threw enormous power into the hands of irresponsible professional politicians,
and called for a President who would break that system and exercise greater directive authority.
For a time he seemed, under the influence of Bagehot, to have believed in the feasibility of
introducing something like the parliamentary system into the government of the United States.
To the last he regarded the President as a sort of Prime Minister, at the head of his party
in the Legislature and able to count absolutely upon its loyalty. More than this, he believed
that the President should take a large share of responsibility for the legislative programme
and ought to push this programme through by all means at his disposal. Such a creed appeared
in his early writings and was largely carried into operation during his administration. We
find him bringing all possible pressure upon the New Jersey Legislature in order to redeem
his campaign pledges. When elected President, he went directly to Congress with his message,
instead of sending it to be read. Time and again he intervened to forward his special legislative
interests by direct influence.

Both in his writings and in his actions Wilson has always advocated government by party. Theoretically
and in practice he has been opposed to coalition government, for, in his belief, it divides
responsibility. Although by no means an advocate of the old-type spoils system, rewards for
party service seem to him essential. Curiously enough, while insisting that the President is
the leader of his party like a Prime Minister, he has also described him, with an apparent
lack of logic, as the leader of the country. Because Wilson has thus confused party and people,
it is easy to understand why he has at times claimed to represent the nation when, in reality,
he was merely representing partisan views. Such an attitude is naturally irritating to the
Opposition and explains something of the virulence that characterized the attacks made upon
him in 1918 and later.

Wilson's political sentiments are tinged by a constant and intense interest in the common man.
More than once he has insisted that it was more important to know what was said by the fireside
than what was said in the council chamber. His strongest political weapon, he believes, has
been the appeal over the heads of politicians to public opinion. His dislike of cliques and
his strong prejudice against anything that savors of special privilege shone clear in his attack
upon the Princeton club system, and the same light has not infrequently dazzled his vision
as President. Thus, while by no means a radical, he instinctively turned to the support of
labor in its struggles with capital because of the abuse of its privilege by capital in the
past and regardless of more recent abuse of its power by labor. Similarly at the Peace Conference
his sympathies were naturally with every weak state and every minority group.

Such tendencies may have been strengthened by the intensity of his religious convictions. There
have been few men holding high office in recent times so deeply and constantly affected by
Christian faith as Woodrow Wilson. The son of a clergyman and subjected during his early years
to the most lively and devout sort of Presbyterianism, he preserved in his own family circle,
in later years, a similar atmosphere. Nor was his conviction of the immanence and spiritual
guidance of the Deity ever divorced from his professional and public life. We can discover
in his presidential speeches many indications of his belief that the duties he had undertaken
were laid upon him by God and that he might not deviate from what seemed to him the straight
and appointed path. There is something reminiscent of Calvin in the stern and unswerving determination
not to compromise for the sake of ephemeral advantage. This aspect of Wilson has been caught
by a British critic, J. M. Keynes, who describes the President as a Nonconformist minister,
whose thought and temperament were essentially theological, not intellectual, "with all the
strength and weakness of that manner of thought, feeling, and expression." The observation
is exact, although it does not in itself completely explain Wilson. Certainly nothing could
be more characteristic of the President than the text of a Baccalaureate sermon which he preached
at Princeton in 1907: "And be ye not conformed to this world." He believed with intensity that
each individual must set up for himself a moral standard, which he must rigidly maintain regardless
of the opinions of the community.

Entirely natural, therefore, is the emphasis which he has placed, whether as President of Princeton
or of the United States, upon moral rather than material virtues. This, indeed, has been the
essence of his political idealism. Such an emphasis has been for him at once a source of political
strength and of weakness. The moralist unquestionably secures wide popular support; but he
also wearies his audience, and many a voter has turned from Wilson in the spirit that led the
Athenian to vote for the ostracism of Aristides, because he was tired of hearing him called
"the Just." Whatever the immediate political effects, the country owes to Wilson a debt, which
historians will doubtless acknowledge, for his insistence that morality must go hand in hand
with public policy, that as with individuals, so with governments, true greatness is won by
service rather than by acquisition, by sacrifice rather than by aggression. Wilson and Treitschke
are at opposite poles.

During his academic career Wilson seems to have displayed little interest in foreign affairs,
and his knowledge of European politics, although sufficient for him to produce an admirable
handbook on governments, including foreign as well as our own, was probably not profound. During
his first year in the White House, he was typical of the Democratic party, which then approved
the political isolation of the United States, abhorred the kind of commercial imperialism summed
up in the phrase "dollar diplomacy," and apparently believed that the essence of foreign policy
was to keep one's own hands clean. The development of Wilson from this parochial point of view
to one which centers his whole being upon a policy of unselfish international service, forms,
to a large extent, the main thread of the narrative which follows.

CHAPTER II

NEUTRALITY

Despite the wars and rumors of wars in Europe after 1910, few Americans perceived the gathering
of the clouds, and probably not one in ten thousand felt more than an ordinary thrill of interest
on the morning of June 29, 1914, when they read that the Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria
had been assassinated. Nor, a month later, when it became obvious that the resulting crisis
was to precipitate another war in the Balkans, did most Americans realize that the world was
hovering on the brink of momentous events. Not even when the most dire forebodings were realized
and the great powers of Europe were drawn into the quarrel, could America appreciate its significance.
Crowds gazed upon the bulletin boards and tried to picture the steady advance of German field-gray
through the streets of Liège, asked their neighbors what were these French 75's, and endeavored
to locate Mons and Verdun on inadequate maps. Interest could not be more intense, but it was
the interest of the moving-picture devotee. Even the romantic voyage of the Kronprinzessin
Cecilie with her cargo of gold, seeking to elude the roving British cruisers, seemed merely
theatrical. It was a tremendous show and we were the spectators. Only the closing of the Stock
Exchange lent an air of reality to the crisis.

It was true that the Spanish War had made of the United States a world power, but so firmly
rooted in American minds was the principle of complete political isolation from European affairs
that the typical citizen could not imagine any cataclysm on the other side of the Atlantic
so engrossing as to engage the active participation of his country. The whole course of American
history had deepened the general feeling of aloofness from Europe and heightened the effect
of the advice given by the first President when he warned the country to avoid entangling alliances.
In the early nineteenth century the United States was a country apart, for in the days when
there was neither steamship nor telegraph the Atlantic in truth separated the New World from
the Old. After the close of the "second war of independence," in 1815, the possibility of foreign
complications seemed remote. The attention of the young nation was directed to domestic concerns,
to the building up of manufactures, to the extension of the frontiers westward. The American
nation turned its back to the Atlantic. There was a steady and welcome stream of immigrants
from Europe, but there was little speculation or interest as to its headwaters.

Governmental relations with European states were disturbed at times by crises of greater or
less importance. The proximity of the United States to and interest in Cuba compelled the Government
to recognize the political existence of Spain; a French army was ordered out of Mexico when
it was felt to be a menace; the presence of immigrant Irish in large numbers always gave a
note of uncertainty to the national attitude towards Great Britain. The export of cotton from
the Southern States created industrial relations of such importance with Great Britain that,
during the Civil War, after the establishment of the blockade on the Confederate coast, wisdom
and forbearance were needed on both sides to prevent the breaking out of armed conflict. But
during the last third of the century, which was marked in this country by an extraordinary
industrial evolution and an increased interest in domestic administrative issues, the attitude
of the United States towards Europe, except during the brief Venezuelan crisis and the war
with Spain, was generally characterized by the indifference which is the natural outcome of
geographical separation.

In diplomatic language American foreign policy, so far as Europe was concerned, was based upon
the principle of "non-intervention." The right to manage their affairs in their own way without
interference was conceded to European Governments and a reciprocal attitude was expected of
them. The American Government followed strictly the purpose of not participating in any political
arrangements made between European states regarding European issues. The influence of John
Quincy Adams crystallized this double policy in the Monroe Doctrine, which, as compensation
for denying to European states the right to intervene in American politics, sacrificed the
generous sympathies of many Americans, among them President Monroe himself, with the republican
movements across the Atlantic. With the continued and increasing importance of the Monroe Doctrine
as a principle of national policy, the natural and reciprocal aspect of that doctrine, implying
political isolation from Europe, became more deeply imbedded in the national consciousness.

There was, it is true, another aspect to American foreign policy besides the European, namely,
that concerning the Pacific and the Far East, which, as diplomatic historians have pointed
out, does not seem to have been affected by the tradition of isolation. Since the day when
the western frontier was pushed to the Golden Gate, the United States has taken an active interest
in problems of the Pacific. Alaska was purchased from Russia. An American seaman was the first
to open the trade of Japan to the outside world and thus precipitated the great revolution
which has touched every aspect of Far Eastern questions. American traders watched carefully
the commercial development of Oriental ports, in which Americans have played an active rôle.
In China and in the maintenance of the open door especially, has America taken the keenest
interest. It is a matter of pride that American policy, always of a purely commercial and peaceful
nature, showed itself less aggressive than that of some European states. But the Government
insisted upon the recognition of American interest in every Far Eastern issue that might be
raised, and was ready to intervene with those of Europe in moments of crisis or danger.

A fairly clear-cut distinction might thus be made between American pretensions in the different
parts of the world. In the Americas the nation claimed that sort of preëminence which was implied
by the Monroe Doctrine, a preëminence which as regards the Latin-American states north of the
Orinoco many felt must be actively enforced, in view of special interests in the Caribbean.
In the Far East the United States claimed an equality of status with the European powers. In
the rest of the world, Europe, Africa, the Levant, the traditional American policy of abstention
held good absolutely, at least until the close of the century.

The war with Spain affected American foreign policy vitally. The holding of the Philippines,
even if it were to prove merely temporary, created new relations with all the great powers,
of Europe as of Asia; American Caribbean interests were strengthened; and the victory over
a European power, even one of a second class in material strength, necessarily altered the
traditional attitude of the nation towards the other states of Europe and theirs towards it.
This change was stimulated by the close attention which American merchants and bankers began
to give to European combinations and policies, particularly to the exploitation of thinly populated
districts by European states. Even before the Spanish War a keen-sighted student of foreign
affairs, Richard Olney, had declared that the American people could not assume an attitude
of indifference towards European politics and that the hegemony of a single continental state
would be disastrous to their prosperity if not to their safety. Conversely Europeans began
to watch America with greater care. The victory over Spain was resented and the fear of American
commercial development began to spread. The Kaiser had even talked of a continental customs
union to meet American competition. On the other hand, Great Britain, which had displayed a
benevolent attitude during the Spanish War and whose admiral at Manila had perhaps blocked
German interference, showed an increasing desire for a close understanding. The friendship
of the United States, itself once a British dependency, for the British colonies was natural
and American interests in the Far East had much in common with those of Great Britain.

External evidence of the new place of the United States in the world might be found in the
position taken by Roosevelt as peacemaker between Russia and Japan, and, more significantly,
in the rôle played by the American representative, Henry White, at the Conference of Algeciras
in 1906. Not merely did the American Government consent to discuss matters essentially European
in character, but its attitude proved almost decisive in the settlement then drafted. It is
true that the Senate, in approving that settlement, refused to assume responsibility for its
maintenance and reiterated its adherence to traditional policy. But those who watched developments
with intelligent eyes must have agreed with Roosevelt when he said: "We have no choice, we
people of the United States, as to whether we shall play a great part in the affairs of the
world. That has been decided for us by fate, by the march of events." Yet it may be questioned
whether the average American, during the first decade of the twentieth century, realized the
change that had come over relations with Europe. The majority of citizens certainly felt that
anything happening east of the Atlantic was none of their business, just as everything that
occurred in the Americas was entirely outside the scope of European interference.

There is little to show that Woodrow Wilson, at the time when he entered upon his duties as
President, was one of the few Americans who fully appreciated the new international position
of the United States and its consequences, even had there been no war. The Democratic platform
of 1912 hardly mentioned foreign policy, and Wilson's Inaugural contained no reference to anything
except domestic matters. Certain problems inherited from the previous Administration forced
upon the President, however, the formulation, if not of a policy, at least of an attitude.
The questions of the Panama Canal tolls and Japanese immigration, the Mexican situation, the
Philippines, general relations with Latin-America, all demanded attention. In each case Wilson
displayed a willingness to sacrifice, a desire to avoid stressing the material strength of
the United States, an anxiety to compromise, which matched in spirit the finest traditions
of American foreign policy, which has generally been marked by high ideals. Many of his countrymen,
possibly without adequate study or command of the facts, supposed that Wilson was inspired
less by positive ideals than by the belief that no problem of a foreign nature was worth a
quarrel. But they also wondered whether the passivity of the Government did not in part proceed
from the fact that the President could not make up his mind what he wanted to do. They looked
upon his handling of the Mexican situation as clear evidence of a lack of policy. Nevertheless
the country as a whole, without expressing enthusiasm for Wilson's attitude, was obviously
pleased by his attempts to avoid foreign entanglements, and in the early summer of 1914 the
eyes of the nation were focused upon domestic issues.

Then came the war in Europe.

       *       *       *       *       *

Today, after the long years of stress and struggle in which the crimes of Germany have received
full advertisement, few Americans will admit that they did not perceive during that first week
of August, 1914, the complete significance of the moral issues involved in the European war.
They read back into their thoughts of those early days the realization which, in truth, came
only later, that Germany was the brutal aggressor attacking those aspects of modern civilization
which are dear to America. In fact there were not many then who grasped the essential truth
that the cause defended by Great Britain and France was indeed that of America and that their
defeat would bring the United States face to face with vital danger, both material and moral.

Partisanship, of course, was not lacking and frequently it was of an earnest kind; in view
of the large number of European-born who enjoyed citizenship, sympathy with one side or the
other was inevitably warm. West of the Mississippi it was some time before the masses were
stirred from their indifference to and their ignorance of the struggle. But on the Atlantic
seaboard and in the Middle West opinion became sharply divided. The middle-class German-Americans
naturally espoused with some vehemence the justice of the Fatherland's cause. German intellectuals
of influence, such as Hugo Münsterberg, inveighed against the hypocrisy and the decadence of
the Entente powers. Many Americans who had lived or had been educated in Germany, some professors
who had been brought into contact with the Kaiser explained the "essentially defensive character"
of Germany's struggle against the threatening Slav. Certain of the politically active Irish
elements, anxious to discredit the British, also lent their support to the German cause.

