This ebook was transcribed by Les Bowler.

                            CHRISTMAS STORIES
                             FROM “HOUSEHOLD
                             WORDS” AND “ALL
                             THE YEAR ROUND”
                                EDITED BY
                             CHARLES DICKENS

                              Mugby Junction

                         [Picture: Frontispiece]

                          [Picture: Title page]

                      RICHARD CLAY & SONS, LIMITED,
                             LONDON & BUNGAY.

                            MUGBY JUNCTION: BY
                         CHARLES DICKENS, ANDREW
                        HALLIDAY, CHARLES COLLINS,
                        HESBA STRETTON, AND AMELIA
                       B. EDWARDS: BEING THE EXTRA
                         CHRISTMAS NUMBER OF “ALL
                       THE YEAR ROUND,” 1866.  WITH
                        A FRONTISPIECE BY A. JULES
                        GOODMAN.  LONDON: CHAPMAN
                          AND HALL, LTD.  1898.

                               INDEX TO
                            MUGBY JUNCTION

                                                                  PAGE
BARBOX BROTHERS.                     BY CHARLES DICKENS              1
BARBOX BROTHERS & CO.                BY CHARLES DICKENS             43
MAIN LINE: THE BOY AT MUGBY.         BY CHARLES DICKENS             72
No. 1 BRANCH LINE: THE SIGNALMAN.    BY CHARLES DICKENS             89
No. 2 BRANCH LINE: THE ENGINE        BY ANDREW HALLIDAY            111
      DRIVER.
No. 3 BRANCH LINE: THE               BY CHARLES COLLINS            125
      COMPENSATION HOUSE.
No. 4 BRANCH LINE: THE TRAVELLING    BY HESBA STRETTON             154
      POST-OFFICE.
No. 5 BRANCH LINE: THE ENGINEER.     BY AMELIA B. EDWARDS          187

BARBOX BROTHERS

I

“Guard!  What place is this?”

“Mugby Junction, sir.”

“A windy place!”

“Yes, it mostly is, sir.”

“And looks comfortless indeed!”

“Yes, it generally does, sir.”

“Is it a rainy night still?”

“Pours, sir.”

“Open the door.  I’ll get out.”

“You’ll have, sir,” said the guard, glistening with drops of wet, and looking at the tearful
face of his watch by the light of his lantern as the traveller descended, “three minutes here.”

“More, I think.—For I am not going on.”

“Thought you had a through ticket, sir?”

“So I have, but I shall sacrifice the rest of it.  I want my luggage.”

“Please to come to the van and point it out, sir.  Be good enough to look very sharp, sir.
Not a moment to spare.”

The guard hurried to the luggage van, and the traveller hurried after him.  The guard got into
it, and the traveller looked into it.

“Those two large black portmanteaus in the corner where your light shines.  Those are mine.”

“Name upon ’em, sir?”

“Barbox Brothers.”

“Stand clear, sir, if you please.  One.  Two.  Right!”

Lamp waved.  Signal lights ahead already changing.  Shriek from engine. Train gone.

“Mugby Junction!” said the traveller, pulling up the woollen muffler round his throat with
both hands.  “At past three o’clock of a tempestuous morning!  So!”

He spoke to himself.  There was no one else to speak to.  Perhaps, though there had been any
one else to speak to, he would have preferred to speak to himself.  Speaking to himself, he
spoke to a man within five years of fifty either way, who had turned grey too soon, like a
neglected fire; a man of pondering habit, brooding carriage of the head, and suppressed internal
voice; a man with many indications on him of having been much alone.

He stood unnoticed on the dreary platform, except by the rain and by the wind.  Those two vigilant
assailants made a rush at him.  “Very well,” said he, yielding.  “It signifies nothing to me,
to what quarter I turn my face.”

Thus, at Mugby Junction, at past three o’clock of a tempestuous morning, the traveller went
where the weather drove him.

Not but what he could make a stand when he was so minded, for, coming to the end of the roofed
shelter (it is of considerable extent at Mugby Junction) and looking out upon the dark night,
with a yet darker spirit-wing of storm beating its wild way through it, he faced about, and
held his own as ruggedly in the difficult direction, as he had held it in the easier one. 
Thus, with a steady step, the traveller went up and down, up and down, up and down, seeking
nothing, and finding it.

A place replete with shadowy shapes, this Mugby Junction in the black hours of the four-and-twenty.
Mysterious goods trains, covered with palls and gliding on like vast weird funerals, conveying
themselves guiltily away from the presence of the few lighted lamps, as if their freight had
come to a secret and unlawful end.  Half miles of coal pursuing in a Detective manner, following
when they lead, stopping when they stop, backing when they back.  Red hot embers showering
out upon the ground, down this dark avenue, and down the other, as if torturing fires were
being raked clear; concurrently, shrieks and groans and grinds invading the ear, as if the
tortured were at the height of their suffering.  Iron-barred cages full of cattle jangling
by midway, the drooping beasts with horns entangled, eyes frozen with terror, and mouths too:
at least they have long icicles (or what seem so) hanging from their lips.  Unknown languages
in the air, conspiring in red, green, and white characters.  An earthquake accompanied with
thunder and lightning, going up express to London.

Now, all quiet, all rusty, wind and rain in possession, lamps extinguished, Mugby Junction
dead and indistinct, with its robe drawn over its head, like Cæsar.  Now, too, as the belated
traveller plodded up and down, a shadowy train went by him in the gloom which was no other
than the train of a life.  From whatsoever intangible deep cutting or dark tunnel it emerged,
here it came, unsummoned and unannounced, stealing upon him and passing away into obscurity.
Here, mournfully went by, a child who had never had a childhood or known a parent, inseparable
from a youth with a bitter sense of his namelessness, coupled to a man the enforced business
of whose best years had been distasteful and oppressive, linked to an ungrateful friend, dragging
after him a woman once beloved.  Attendant, with many a clank and wrench, were lumbering cares,
dark meditations, huge dim disappointments, monotonous years, a long jarring line of the discords
of a solitary and unhappy existence.

“—Yours, sir?”

The traveller recalled his eyes from the waste into which they had been staring, and fell back
a step or so under the abruptness, and perhaps the chance appropriateness, of the question.

“O!  My thoughts were not here for the moment.  Yes.  Yes.  Those two portmanteaus are mine.
Are you a Porter?”

“On Porter’s wages, sir.  But I am Lamps.”

The traveller looked a little confused.

“Who did you say you are?”

“Lamps, sir,” showing an oily cloth in his hand, as further explanation.

“Surely, surely.  Is there any hotel or tavern here?”

“Not exactly here, sir.  There is a Refreshment Room here, but—”  Lamps, with a mighty serious
look, gave his head a warning roll that plainly added—“but it’s a blessed circumstance for
you that it’s not open.”

“You couldn’t recommend it, I see, if it was available?”

“Ask your pardon, sir.  If it was—?”

“Open?”

“It ain’t my place, as a paid servant of the company to give my opinion on any of the company’s
toepics,” he pronounced it more like toothpicks, “beyond lamp-ile and cottons,” returned Lamps,
in a confidential tone; “but speaking as a man, I wouldn’t recommend my father (if he was to
come to life again) to go and try how he’d be treated at the Refreshment Room. Not speaking
as a man, no, I would not.”

The traveller nodded conviction.  “I suppose I can put up in the town? There is a town here?”
For the traveller (though a stay-at-home compared with most travellers) had been, like many
others, carried on the steam winds and the iron tides through that Junction before, without
having ever, as one might say, gone ashore there.

“O yes, there’s a town, sir.  Anyways there’s town enough to put up in. But,” following the
glance of the other at his luggage, “this is a very dead time of the night with us, sir.  The
deadest time.  I might a’most call it our deadest and buriedest time.”

“No porters about?”

“Well, sir, you see,” returned Lamps, confidential again, “they in general goes off with the
gas.  That’s how it is.  And they seem to have overlooked you, through your walking to the
furder end of the platform. But in about twelve minutes or so, she may be up.”

“Who may be up?”

“The three forty-two, sir.  She goes off in a sidin’ till the Up X passes, and then she,” here
an air of hopeful vagueness pervaded Lamps, “doos all as lays in her power.”

“I doubt if I comprehend the arrangement.”

“I doubt if anybody do, sir.  She’s a Parliamentary, sir.  And, you see, a Parliamentary, or
a Skirmishun—”

“Do you mean an Excursion?”

“That’s it, sir.—A Parliamentary, or a Skirmishun, she mostly doos go off into a sidin’.  But
when she can get a chance, she’s whistled out of it, and she’s whistled up into doin’ all as,”
Lamps again wore the air of a highly sanguine man who hoped for the best, “all as lays in her
power.”

He then explained that porters on duty being required to be in attendance on the Parliamentary
matron in question, would doubtless turn up with the gas.  In the meantime, if the gentleman
would not very much object to the smell of lamp-oil, and would accept the warmth of his little
room.—The gentleman being by this time very cold, instantly closed with the proposal.

A greasy little cabin it was, suggestive to the sense of smell, of a cabin in a Whaler.  But
there was a bright fire burning in its rusty grate, and on the floor there stood a wooden stand
of newly trimmed and lighted lamps, ready for carriage service.  They made a bright show, and
their light, and the warmth, accounted for the popularity of the room, as borne witness to
by many impressions of velveteen trousers on a form by the fire, and many rounded smears and
smudges of stooping velveteen shoulders on the adjacent wall.  Various untidy shelves accommodated
a quantity of lamps and oil-cans, and also a fragrant collection of what looked like the pocket-handkerchiefs
of the whole lamp family.

As Barbox Brothers (so to call the traveller on the warranty of his luggage) took his seat
upon the form, and warmed his now ungloved hands at the fire, he glanced aside at a little
deal desk, much blotched with ink, which his elbow touched.  Upon it, were some scraps of coarse
paper, and a superannuated steel pen in very reduced and gritty circumstances.

From glancing at the scraps of paper, he turned involuntarily to his host, and said, with some
roughness—

“Why, you are never a poet, man!”

Lamps had certainly not the conventional appearance of one, as he stood modestly rubbing his
squab nose with a handkerchief so exceedingly oily, that he might have been in the act of mistaking
himself for one of his charges.  He was a spare man of about the Barbox Brothers’ time of life,
with his features whimsically drawn upward as if they were attracted by the roots of his hair.
He had a peculiarly shining transparent complexion, probably occasioned by constant oleaginous
application; and his attractive hair, being cut short, and being grizzled, and standing straight
up on end as if it in its turn were attracted by some invisible magnet above it, the top of
his head was not very unlike a lamp-wick.

“But to be sure it’s no business of mine,” said Barbox Brothers.  “That was an impertinent
observation on my part.  Be what you like.”

“Some people, sir,” remarked Lamps, in a tone of apology, “are sometimes what they don’t like.”

“Nobody knows that better than I do,” sighed the other.  “I have been what I don’t like, all
my life.”

“When I first took, sir,” resumed Lamps, “to composing little Comic-Songs-like—”

Barbox Brothers eyed him with great disfavour.

“—To composing little Comic-Songs-like—and what was more hard—to singing ’em afterwards,” said
Lamps, “it went against the grain at that time, it did indeed.”

Something that was not all oil here shining in Lamps’s eye, Barbox Brothers withdrew his own
a little disconcerted, looked at the fire, and put a foot on the top bar.  “Why did you do
it, then?” he asked, after a short pause; abruptly enough but in a softer tone.  “If you didn’t
want to do it, why did you do it?  Where did you sing them?  Public-house?”

To which Mr. Lamps returned the curious reply: “Bedside.”

At this moment, while the traveller looked at him for elucidation, Mugby Junction started suddenly,
trembled violently, and opened its gas eyes. “She’s got up!” Lamps announced, excited.  “What
lays in her power is sometimes more, and sometimes less; but it’s laid in her power to get
up to-night, by George!”

The legend “Barbox Brothers” in large white letters on two black surfaces, was very soon afterwards
trundling on a truck through a silent street, and, when the owner of the legend had shivered
on the pavement half an hour, what time the porter’s knocks at the Inn Door knocked up the
whole town first, and the Inn last, he groped his way into the close air of a shut-up house,
and so groped between the sheets of a shut-up bed that seemed to have been expressly refrigerated
for him when last made.

II

“You remember me, Young Jackson?”

“What do I remember if not you?  You are my first remembrance.  It was you who told me that
was my name.  It was you who told me that on every twentieth of December my life had a penitential
anniversary in it called a birthday.  I suppose the last communication was truer than the first!”

“What am I like, Young Jackson?”

“You are like a blight all through the year, to me.  You hard-lined, thin-lipped, repressive,
changeless woman with a wax mask on.  You are like the Devil to me; most of all when you teach
me religious things, for you make me abhor them.”

“You remember me, Mr. Young Jackson?”  In another voice from another quarter.

“Most gratefully, sir.  You were the ray of hope and prospering ambition in my life.  When
I attended your course, I believed that I should come to be a great healer, and I felt almost
happy—even though I was still the one boarder in the house with that horrible mask, and ate
and drank in silence and constraint with the mask before me, every day.  As I had done every,
every, every day, through my school-time and from my earliest recollection.”

“What am I like, Mr. Young Jackson?”

“You are like a Superior Being to me.  You are like Nature beginning to reveal herself to me.
I hear you again, as one of the hushed crowd of young men kindling under the power of your
presence and knowledge, and you bring into my eyes the only exultant tears that ever stood
in them.”

“You remember Me, Mr. Young Jackson?”  In a grating voice from quite another quarter.

“Too well.  You made your ghostly appearance in my life one day, and announced that its course
was to be suddenly and wholly changed.  You showed me which was my wearisome seat in the Galley
of Barbox Brothers. (When they were, if they ever were, is unknown to me; there was nothing
of them but the name when I bent to the oar.)  You told me what I was to do, and what to be
paid; you told me afterwards, at intervals of years, when I was to sign for the Firm, when
I became a partner, when I became the Firm.  I know no more of it, or of myself.”

“What am I like, Mr. Young Jackson?”

“You are like my father, I sometimes think.  You are hard enough and cold enough so to have
brought up an unacknowledged son.  I see your scanty figure, your close brown suit, and your
tight brown wig; but you, too, wear a wax mask to your death.  You never by a chance remove
it—it never by a chance falls off—and I know no more of you.”

Throughout this dialogue, the traveller spoke to himself at his window in the morning, as he
had spoken to himself at the Junction over-night.  And as he had then looked in the darkness,
a man who had turned grey too soon, like a neglected fire: so he now looked in the sunlight,
an ashier grey, like a fire which the brightness of the sun put out.

The firm of Barbox Brothers had been some offshoot or irregular branch of the Public Notary
and bill-broking tree.  It had gained for itself a griping reputation before the days of Young
Jackson, and the reputation had stuck to it and to him.  As he had imperceptibly come into
possession of the dim den up in the corner of a court off Lombard-street, on whose grimy windows
the inscription Barbox Brothers had for many long years daily interposed itself between him
and the sky, so he had insensibly found himself a personage held in chronic distrust, whom
it was essential to screw tight to every transaction in which he engaged, whose word was never
to be taken without his attested bond, whom all dealers with openly set up guards and wards
against.  This character had come upon him through no act of his own.  It was as if the original
Barbox had stretched himself down upon the office-floor, and had thither caused to be conveyed
Young Jackson in his sleep, and had there effected a metempsychosis and exchange of persons
with him.  The discovery—aided in its turn by the deceit of the only woman he had ever loved,
and the deceit of the only friend he had ever made: who eloped from him to be married together—the
discovery, so followed up, completed what his earliest rearing had begun.  He shrank, abashed,
within the form of Barbox, and lifted up his head and heart no more.

But he did at last effect one great release in his condition.  He broke the oar he had plied
so long, and he scuttled and sank the galley.  He prevented the gradual retirement of an old
conventional business from him, by taking the initiative and retiring from it.  With enough
to live on (though after all with not too much), he obliterated the firm of Barbox Brothers
from the pages of the Post-office Directory and the face of the earth, leaving nothing of it
but its name on two portmanteaus.

“For one must have some name in going about, for people to pick up,” he explained to Mugby
High-street, through the Inn-window, “and that name at least was real once.  Whereas, Young
Jackson!—Not to mention its being a sadly satirical misnomer for Old Jackson.”

He took up his hat and walked out, just in time to see, passing along on the opposite side
of the way, a velveteen man, carrying his day’s dinner in a small bundle that might have been
larger without suspicion of gluttony, and pelting away towards the Junction at a great pace.

“There’s Lamps!” said Barbox Brother.  “And by-the-by—”

Ridiculous, surely, that a man so serious, so self-contained, and not yet three days emancipated
from a routine of drudgery, should stand rubbing his chin in the street, in a brown study about
Comic Songs.

“Bedside?” said Barbox Brothers, testily.  “Sings them at the bedside? Why at the bedside,
unless he goes to bed drunk?  Does, I shouldn’t wonder.  But it’s no business of mine.  Let
me see.  Mugby Junction, Mugby Junction.  Where shall I go next?  As it came into my head last
night when I woke from an uneasy sleep in the carriage and found myself here, I can go anywhere
from here.  Where shall I go?  I’ll go and look at the Junction by daylight.  There’s no hurry,
and I may like the look of one Line better than another.”

But there were so many Lines.  Gazing down upon them from a bridge at the Junction, it was
as if the concentrating Companies formed a great Industrial Exhibition of the works of extraordinary
ground-spiders that spun iron.  And then so many of the Lines went such wonderful ways, so
crossing and curving among one another, that the eye lost them.  And then some of them appeared
to start with the fixed intention of going five hundred miles, and all of a sudden gave it
up at an insignificant barrier, or turned off into a workshop.  And then others, like intoxicated
men, went a little way very straight, and surprisingly slued round and came back again.  And
then others were so chock-full of trucks of coal, others were so blocked with trucks of casks,
others were so gorged with trucks of ballast, others were so set apart for wheeled objects
like immense iron cotton-reels: while others were so bright and clear, and others were so delivered
over to rust and ashes and idle wheelbarrows out of work, with their legs in the air (looking
much like their masters on strike), that there was no beginning, middle, or end, to the bewilderment.

Barbox Brothers stood puzzled on the bridge, passing his right hand across the lines on his
forehead, which multiplied while he looked down, as if the railway Lines were getting themselves
photographed on that sensitive plate.  Then, was heard a distant ringing of bells and blowing
of whistles.  Then, puppet-looking heads of men popped out of boxes in perspective, and popped
in again.  Then, prodigious wooden razors set up on end, began shaving the atmosphere.  Then,
several locomotive engines in several directions began to scream and be agitated.  Then, along
one avenue a train came in.  Then, along another two trains appeared that didn’t come in, but
stopped without.  Then, bits of trains broke off. Then, a struggling horse became involved
with them.  Then, the locomotives shared the bits of trains, and ran away with the whole.

“I have not made my next move much clearer by this.  No hurry.  No need to make up my mind
to-day, or to-morrow, nor yet the day after.  I’ll take a walk.”

It fell out somehow (perhaps he meant it should) that the walk tended to the platform at which
he had alighted, and to Lamps’s room.  But Lamps was not in his room.  A pair of velveteen
shoulders were adapting themselves to one of the impressions on the wall by Lamps’s fireplace,
but otherwise the room was void.  In passing back to get out of the station again, he learnt
the cause of this vacancy, by catching sight of Lamps on the opposite line of railway, skipping
along the top of a train, from carriage to carriage, and catching lighted namesakes thrown
up to him by a coadjutor.

“He is busy.  He has not much time for composing or singing Comic Songs this morning, I take it.”

The direction he pursued now, was into the country, keeping very near to the side of one great
Line of railway, and within easy view of others. 

The assertion of a universal, almost slavish dependence of Aristotle of Plato therefore holds
before an impartial and unprejudiced examination of the influence of a non-standard Teacher
to his pupil in the sense indicated above should therefore not denied be, but as far as the present
teachings are coming the poetics into account, would the authors had no reason, a "qui ante nos nostra
Pereant dixerunt" to give expression.

While we have received complete works of Plato, for comparison, the other predecessor Aristotle's
writings and even disappeared completely as that of a Democritus "On Seal "and" On rhythms and
harmony, "or the sophist Hippias" On Music "and" On Rhythms and harmonies that would point to
similar discussions are all appropriate for us only empty title. But the fact that a rich professional
literature, as I said (p. XXIII) came mainly from sophistic circles, Aristotle was available to
prove but the Frogs of Aristophanes (405), which already has a prodigious general knowledge on
the technique of the drama on the part of the Athenian theater audience it necessary for have.

Fortunately, our poetry is itself still valuable to us hints of earlier writers in this field, for not
less than 12 respectively. 13 characters cites Aristotle explicitly on earlier and that five times by
name, provided (Protagoras, Hippias of Thasos, Euclid, Glaucon and Ariphrades). In four of
these there are usually details in regard of versification and language use, in contrast, Glaucon
an agreement under which he castigated the author of numerous false method, literary critics,
who for us Although unnamed, are just but their existence is proved by that failure. Important
for the question of sources are the other places from which one yet, strangely, not the consequences
has drawn, but was content to regard them as an almost isolated utterances, Aristotle mentions only to
dismiss it. With the subject it may have its correctness, but it corresponds quite ancient Zitiermethode,
a predecessor to play only and usually under the cover of the plural ("some say, they say," etc.)
when wants to fight him or disprove. As soon as we are but the environment in which those Set [7],
are looked at, we immediately obtain that it is impossible to only occasional Judge acted, but
that this only directly in-depth investigations into all Context (p. XXIV) related issues could
be given. The names of the authors, as the titles of their works, as I said, all lost, except that
we in the report concerning the claims the Dorians to the invention of comedy (c. 3) is likely The
Chronicle of Dieuchidas of Megara, an older contemporary of Aristotle suspect can.

In other parts of the Poetics, we will have to assume literary agent. In particular, about the history
of the drama (c. 4). Yes, in a trifle the Cypriot dialect on (c. 21, 3), knowledge of one does
not readily Aristotle is the trust should do, maybe once a Cypriot
author glosses have been cited Glaucon from previously indefinitely
his informant, if not a reminiscence of Herodotus (5, 9) is present.

A similar, Cretan Glossary also probably the source for c. have been 25, 10. And so, like
Aristotle more details and the theory and technique of poetry, thanks to his predecessors as
we now prove or can suggest.

But may be as many ways always been these ideas and so much positive knowledge Aristotle may
have inherited from previous researchers, so even with our still incomplete Bulletin of the real
colleges everywhere unmistakable stamp of his mind on the forehead. It but also contains so many clever
ideas and doctrines of eternal validity, that we henceforth also the poetry as a masterpiece in this
field and as a delicious Legacy of one of the greatest intellectual
heroes of humanity may be to assess.

* * * * *

ARISTOTLE

       ABOUT THE POETRY

* * * * *

       

CHAPTER I

1.

"We want to talk about poetry, both (p. 1) (1447a), as their types, their nature in detail and
how the poetic materials must be designed differently if the seal should be artful? also on the
number and nature of the sealing parts of a plant and likewise, what else may still fall within
the same study area. And do go We, as naturally, the first of the first out.

2. So the epic and the poetry of the tragedy, and also the comedy that dithyrambische poetry and
most of the lyre and Aulet, they are all in their entirety imitative Representation (mimesis).

3.
There is, however, among them a three-fold difference, namely in
relation to the various Medium, the different objects and different
type of representation, not in the same way.

[Sidenote: c. 1, 4 - 6 Types and differences of the seal.]

4.

Indeed, as some with both colors, with figures, whether due to artistic
Talent, whether as a result of skill acquired through practice while
others with the Many replicas mimic voice, so also in the arts mentioned
a total of imitation by means of rhythm, speech, and the harmony achieved
separately or mixed business, harmony and rhythm alone, for example,
the lyre and Aulet , and what else might be in the arts the same way
as the art of Syrinx (Shepherd's pipe), alone (p. 2) with rhythm without
harmony, the art of dance, because this imitate by means of rhythmic
body movements, characteristics, moods, and actions after.

5. But the art form that uses only the speech, it is the unbound, be it the metric and, if the latter,
either a plurality of meter connects or only a Versgattung (1447b) applies has, as yet unnamed.
Because we did not have a common Designation to indicate the mime and a Sophron Xenarchos and the Socratic
discussions one hand, yet on the other hand for an imitative representation in (iambic) trimeters
or elegiac couplet or in any other poetic meters of this type, however, ties is usually the
question Versbezeichnung the word "tight" and then the one called Elegy poet, other epic poets, not
by being based on the imitative representation to poets stamps, but
because of the common metrical.

Yes, you wont even those to call it, represents something of medicine or science in verse
but Homer and Empedocles have nothing in common but the meter so that you see those justly called
a poet, that name but rather as a Naturalist should. Similarly, the poet would also name the imitative
in his account all kinds of meter used, as in his Chaeremon Epyllion "The Centaur", in which the
did occur different kinds of verse. So then let the verdict read about these things.

[Sidenote: c. 2, 3 Types and differences of the seal.]

6. Now there are some arts which employ all these means of representation, (p. 3) I say so because
of the rhythm of the sung speech and of meter, such as the dithyrambs and Noun poetry, tragedy,
both as a comedy. They differ, however, again, is that the two former, this means consistently
apply this only at certain parts. These then are the differences of the Arts for their means
of representation.

* * * * *

CHAPTER II

1. Now imitate the imitator agent (1448a), it follows necessarily that they are either virtuous
or vicious, but because of these differences surely run always beyond our moral qualities, they
sing with regard to their character distinguished by vice and virtue

       

2.

Accordingly, the poet to imitate actors that are either better than us average people or worse,
or make that are similar The same we find in the painters, because Polygnotos used to better and
worse, and Dionysius Pauson reality imitate appropriate people.

[Sidenote: c. 2, 3 Types and differences of the seal.]

3. Moreover, it is clear that each of the representations just mentioned
imitative these differences have, will be so far but is a different,
different as they Objects mimics.

Even at the dance, the play of flute and guitar, these dissimilarities
occur and no less in the prosaic and purely metric representation
for example, has Homer better characters, like us Cleophon, the hegemon
of Thasi but, (p. 4), the first poet parody and Nikochares, the author
of "DELIADES" inferior imitation.

In a similar way occur with a noun and dithyrambs these differences. For one might imitate
, Represented as Argas ... or, as Timotheus and Philoxenos the Cyclopes have shown. And the very fact
there is a difference between tragedy and comedy, as this will worse character actor imitating those
on the other hand better than they are today.

* * * * *

CHAPTER III

1. The (in the above-treated) Presentation differences has now joined
as a third, the Way in which one could imitate the individual items.

       One can namely same representational means the same objects represent
this tell but a part - and either, as Homer does, in the person of
another, or in person without to change - the other, so that we all
imitating people depicted as acting and demonstrated in action.

These three words are the differences, in which the imitative Representation,
as we noted at the beginning takes place, namely in the agents, objects
and fashion.

2. After that would be on one side Sophocles, the same imitative performer like Homer, as both noble
person to emulate, in other respects, but he would be at the same level such as Aristophanes mimic
both acting and drama professionals.

[Sidenote: c. 4 1 Origin of poetry.]

3. Therefore, some argue that these works (p. 5) "drama" because they are acting People (drōntas)
imitate.

4. Therefore make the Dorians claim to the tragedy and comedy.

The comedy will the Megarians have invented, both here in the mother country and that at the time
when they democracy emerged, and the tribe of Sicily, from where
Epicharmus, at the was far older than Chionides and Magnes.

These also supply the names as evidence to Field. namely at them, they say, would be lying
around towns "Komai" (villages) in But the Athenians "demoi" and they add that "comedian"
not by "kōmázein" (Swarm) is derived, but from their migration through the Komai, because
in the City (1448b) had no respect. [They also claim that they "act" for themselves use "turn,"
the Athenians "práttein"]. rise to the invention of some tragedy in the Peloponnese <....>
claim about the differences of a mimetic representation, the number and type may, therefore, this
is not said.

* * * * *

CHAPTER IV

       

[Sidenote: c. 4 1 Origin of poetry.]

1.

In general, it seems about two and that in human nature causes reasonable
to have been that have brought the art of poetry.

Because that is imitating the human implanted from childhood, but it differs from all other living
Being that he is the most zealous of the zealous imitation of nature, and that he was his first
Knowledge by means of imitation acquires. Also (p. 6) the joy of all of imitative Representations
characteristic of him. Evidence of this is what we indeed works met. Because of seeing the same
objects that we regard it with pain. We particularly meticulously crafted images with "well-pleased
with, such as the shapes of all repulsive Animals and even dead bodies of the reason is that learning
not only for philosophers a treat, but also for everyone else, even if this only a short time
on this Pleasure to participate.

2. Looking at pictures but therefore with pleasure, because at the sight of a learning, ie a final
result, which imagines a any picture, namely that this was so and so.

Did you by chance the object in question but not seen earlier it is not the imitative representation
than those that caught our sensation of pleasure, but it happens this technology because of
design or because of their coloration or for any other similar reason.

3. Since we own the imitation of nature now and the same is true of the sense of Harmony and
rhythm - that because the meter is only part of the rhythm will glow
- so people have, because they are endowed by this house and were
gradually these properties particularly perfected, called out of impromptu
experiments, the poetry to life.

[Sidenote: c. 4, 8 Historical development.]

4.

It split, however, the seal after the poets peculiar disposition, for The fine assessed received
morally good deeds and acts of such persons to the of low sentiment, but the actions of bad
people by first mocking songs sealed, such as (p. 7) the other hymns and praise songs. Of the
pre-Homeric poets can We make sure no such satirical poem named, but it is likely that it have
been many poets of this kind. Beginning with Homer, however, we like his Margites and the like.

5.
In these poems, which also hired the right meter, so it is even now the iambic named because it
was in this verse used to mock each other (iámbizon).

Of the ancient poets, accordingly, the one Jambendichter, others Ependichter.

6.

How, then, in respect of the moral good Homer was a real poet - he has but not only sealed excellently,
but also shown dramatic actions - he also has pioneered the basic forms of comedy indicated
by not a satirical song written, but dramatized the ridiculous. but the Margites the drama is
quite analogous, for, as the Iliad and (1449a) Odyssey to tragedy, then those acts to comedy.

7.
As had now come up but the tragedy and comedy, as written, the poet,
the after it to one or the other of seal felt attracted to their peculiar
Disposition in accordance with comedies instead of satirical poems
and tragedies instead of epics, because these Dichtungsfonnen were
estimated significant and higher (older) than the former.

8. The examination of whether the tragedy is already sufficiently developed or not, both considered
in itself and in terms of the public performance of a question in
itself.

In any case, it is itself, like the comedy, originally of impromptu experiments (p. 8) considered
and specifically those of the choir that sang the dithyramb, this phallic of the Tracks that have
even to this day preserved in many cities to use.

9. So then is the tragedy matured gradually, by the light entering
each development stage perfected.

After she had then gone through many changes, she stopped, because they had received the kind appropriate
shape. The number of actors has Aeschylus brought from one to two, he has reduced the proportion
of the choir, and accordingly dialogue, the main role assigned. The third actor and scenery has painted
Sophocles introduced. (A further stage of development), the resulting low level of fables Size
<....> The linguistic expression that originated in a burlesque style because it results from the
satyr play developed, gained only late a worthy character and the (iambic) Trimeter took the
place of the (trochaic) Tetra meter. Originally used namely, because the seal was satyrhafter
and dance-like, the (trochaic) tetrameter. But when the (Tragic) style was formed, nature itself
was the perfect for this meter, for of all the poetic meters of the iambic is suitable for the most
conversational tone. Evidence This is because we very often in our conversation with each other
in iambic (trimeters) , But rarely speak in hexameters and then only when we have the usual
conversational tone . Go Furthermore, the number of acts (episodes) is to be mentioned. Everything
else, however, as each one should have been equipped to let you apply as said, for it would
surely (P. 9) is quite tedious, the individual wanted to discuss in detail.

* * * * *

       CHAPTER V

[Sidenote: c. 5, 3 Historical development.]

1. The comedy is, as we said, the imitative representation of lower characters However, by no means
the full extent of the bad, but the ugly, from which the ridiculous is a part. For the ridiculous
is both a kind of crime as well as a distortion, which causes no pain and harmless, like for like,
the comic mask something ugly and distorted, but it has nothing painful
in itself.

2. The changes in the tragedy, and the author have been unaware that the Comedy, however, because
it was not initially taken seriously, fell into oblivion for (relatively late in the Archon granted
the comedy writers a choir (Former) consisted only of (1449b) volunteers. Only when the comedy itself
some art forms had called us to be their traditional poet. But he who introduced the mask or
the prologue or the number of actors has increased and is more like what is unknown. The Art-related
activities comes from Sicily to dense ..., by the poets of Athens but Crates was the first to
when he abandoned the form of personal ridicule, general Substances,
ie dramatize actions.

[Sidenote: c. 5, 3 Special Section. Definition of Tragedy.]

3. The epic has only until the tragedy on the metric in question (?) Imitative representation serious
materials pace, but differs from it in the fact that there is one and the same meter and the
shape of the story applies. Furthermore, with respect (p. 10) to the extent the action. For
while the tragedy made special efforts in a solar orbit to stay or
is it only a little to go beyond that, the epic action in the time
limit.

So also is a difference between them. However, did originally it is the tragedies as well as
with the epic poems.

4. Now as their parts, they must be either the same or they are just
the Peculiar tragedy.

       So if a tragedy, whether it is good or bad, judge has, it also has
about the epic.

For what has the epic poetry, has also the tragedy, but this one
does what, not all the epic poetry.

* * * * *

CHAPTER VI

1. About the hexameters in imitative representation as to the comedy act, we will later now
we want to talk about the tragedy, by the definition of her being the already Refer said.

2.
The tragedy is, therefore, the imitative representation of a morally serious, self-contained,
extensive action in artfully spiced speech, the individual species
separately (different) Parts are used, performed by the characters,
not told by the excitement of pity and fear effecting the purification
(catharsis) of such moods.

In "artfully spiced speech," I mean one that rhythm as balance, ie Includes singing, and under
the "separately in its (different) types," that some (p. 11) purely metric, however, another is running
musical ....[ 8]

3. Since there are now persons acting make the imitative representation, we obtain , first, by necessity,
so to speak, the jewelry, which is located in the scenic features,
part of the tragedy is also the vocal composition, and the linguistic
expression, because by these means the imitative representation is
achieved.

In linguistic expression I understand here the mere connection of the verses in song composition,
but what his All nature is obvious.

4. Since we are dealing now with the imitative representation of an action, but through this
some acting person also in terms of their character and thoughts
of must be a specific condition, for just then we shall indeed the
actions a certain quality (1450A) at, so naturally arise for two reasons
Action, namely the character and thought, which fail to reach their
destination or in accordance with all.

5. But now is the imitative representation of an action the fable. In fable understand I namely
the linkage of events, in character but what we are the acting People
assign a certain property, under the idea at last, bringing the Eedenden
prove anything or give a general expression of truth.

[Sidenote: c. 6, 6 Components of the tragedy.]

[Sidenote: c. 6, 6 Ranking of the constituents.]

6. Thus, there are six elements of each tragedy, according to which they have a certain Nature
has. It is this: the fable (p. 12) characters, verbal expression, the idea of ​​the scenic equipment and
musical composition.

Two [9] of this Parts belong to the means, a [10] to the way and three [11] to the objects the
imitative representation. Further, it is not. Of these forms are also in the Generally made
use, for scenic amenities each has a drama, as well as characterization, a fable, linguistic
expression, voice and content of thought.

7. The most significant of these components is the combination of events, because the Tragedy is
not an imitative representation of the people but their actions and of life. Happiness and
unhappiness are based on action and the ultimate aim is a kind of
activity, not a personality.

The character that we are such or so, our actions but to be happy or the opposite. Therefore
not be the imitator to the characters Imitating present, but the act of love, the characters in
her performance leftovers. Thus, the actions of say, wants the fable, the ultimate goal of tragedy,
the Ultimate goal of all things is the main thing.

8.

Furthermore, without action there could be no tragedy without character
but this would probably possible, as there are no tragedies of most
moderns (individual) characterization on and in general this is true
of many poets. Similar situation is among the painters Zeuxis to Polygnotos.
This is an excellent character painters, painting (p. 13), however
Zeuxis devoid of characterization.

[Sidenote: c. 6, 13 Ranking of
the constituents.]

9.

He had muttered that he would come “in the course of his walks.”  The course of his walks must
have been highly favourable to his return, for he returned after an interval of a single day.

“You thought you would never see me any more, I suppose?” he said to Phœbe as he touched her
hand, and sat down by her couch.

“Why should I think so!” was her surprised rejoinder.

“I took it for granted you would mistrust me.”

“For granted, sir?  Have you been so much mistrusted?”

“I think I am justified in answering yes.  But I may have mistrusted too, on my part.  No matter
just now.  We were speaking of the Junction last time.  I have passed hours there since the
day before yesterday.”

“Are you now the gentleman for Somewhere?” she asked with a smile.

“Certainly for Somewhere; but I don’t yet know Where.  You would never guess what I am travelling
from.  Shall I tell you?  I am travelling from my birthday.”

Her hands stopped in her work, and she looked at him with incredulous astonishment.

“Yes,” said Barbox Brothers, not quite easy in his chair, “from my birthday.  I am, to myself,
an unintelligible book with the earlier chapters all torn out, and thrown away.  My childhood
had no grace of childhood, my youth had no charm of youth, and what can be expected from such
a lost beginning?”  His eyes meeting hers as they were addressed intently to him, something
seemed to stir within his breast, whispering: “Was this bed a place for the graces of childhood
and the charms of youth to take to, kindly?  O shame, shame!”

“It is a disease with me,” said Barbox Brothers, checking himself, and making as though he
had a difficulty in swallowing something, “to go wrong about that.  I don’t know how I came
to speak of that.  I hope it is because of an old misplaced confidence in one of your sex involving
an old bitter treachery.  I don’t know.  I am all wrong together.”

Her hands quietly and slowly resumed their work.  Glancing at her, he saw that her eyes were
thoughtfully following them.

“I am travelling from my birthday,” he resumed, “because it has always been a dreary day to
me.  My first free birthday coming round some five or six weeks hence, I am travelling to put
its predecessors far behind me, and to try to crush the day—or, at all events, put it out of
my sight—by heaping new objects on it.”

As he paused, she looked at him; but only shook her head as being quite at a loss.

“This is unintelligible to your happy disposition,” he pursued, abiding by his former phrase
as if there were some lingering virtue of self-defence in it: “I knew it would be, and am glad
it is.  However, on this travel of mine (in which I mean to pass the rest of my days, having
abandoned all thought of a fixed home), I stopped, as you heard from your father, at the Junction
here.  The extent of its ramifications quite confused me as to whither I should go, from here.
I have not yet settled, being still perplexed among so many roads.  What do you think I mean
to do?  How many of the branching roads can you see from your window?”

Looking out, full of interest, she answered, “Seven.”

“Seven,” said Barbox Brothers, watching her with a grave smile.  “Well! I propose to myself,
at once to reduce the gross number to those very seven, and gradually to fine them down to
one—the most promising for me—and to take that.”

“But how will you know, sir, which is the most promising?” she asked, with her brightened eyes
roving over the view.

“Ah!” said Barbox Brothers, with another grave smile, and considerably improving in his ease
of speech.  “To be sure.  In this way.  Where your father can pick up so much every day for
a good purpose, I may once and again pick up a little for an indifferent purpose.  The gentleman
for Nowhere must become still better known at the Junction.  He shall continue to explore it,
until he attaches something that he has seen, heard, or found out, at the head of each of the
seven roads, to the road itself.  And so his choice of a road shall be determined by his choice
among his discoveries.”

Her hands still busy, she again glanced at the prospect, as if it comprehended something that
had not been in it before, and laughed as if it yielded her new pleasure.

“But I must not forget,” said Barbox Brothers, “(having got so far) to ask a favour.  I want
your help in this expedient of mine.  I want to bring you what I pick up at the heads of the
seven roads that you lie here looking out at, and to compare notes with you about it.  May
I? They say two heads are better than one.  I should say myself that probably depends upon
the heads concerned.  But I am quite sure, though we are so newly acquainted, that your head
and your father’s have found out better things, Phœbe, than ever mine of itself discovered.”

She gave him her sympathetic right hand, in perfect rapture with his proposal, and eagerly
and gratefully thanked him.

“That’s well!” said Barbox Brothers.  “Again I must not forget (having got so far) to ask a
favour.  Will you shut your eyes?”

Laughing playfully at the strange nature of the request, she did so.

“Keep them shut,” said Barbox Brothers, going softly to the door, and coming back.  “You are
on your honour, mind, not to open your eyes until I tell you that you may?”

“Yes!  On my honour.”

“Good.  May I take your lace-pillow from you for a minute?”

Still laughing and wondering, she removed her hands from it, and he put it aside.

“Tell me.  Did you see the puffs of smoke and steam made by the morning fast-train yesterday
on road number seven from here?”

“Behind the elm-trees and the spire?”

“That’s the road,” said Barbox Brothers, directing his eyes towards it.

“Yes.  I watched them melt away.”

“Anything unusual in what they expressed?”

“No!” she answered merrily.

“Not complimentary to me, for I was in that train.  I went—don’t open your eyes—to fetch you
this, from the great ingenious town.  It is not half so large as your lace-pillow, and lies
easily and lightly in its place.  These little keys are like the keys of a miniature piano,
and you supply the air required with your left hand.  May you pick out delightful music from
it, my dear!  For the present—you can open your eyes now—good-bye!”

In his embarrassed way, he closed the door upon himself, and only saw, in doing so, that she
ecstatically took the present to her bosom and caressed it.  The glimpse gladdened his heart,
and yet saddened it; for so might she, if her youth had flourished in its natural course, have
taken to her breast that day the slumbering music of her own child’s voice.

BARBOX BROTHERS AND CO.

With good will and earnest purpose, the gentleman for Nowhere began, on the very next day,
his researches at the heads of the seven roads.  The results of his researches, as he and Phœbe
afterwards set them down in fair writing, hold their due places in this veracious chronicle,
from its seventeenth page, onward.  But they occupied a much longer time in the getting together
than they ever will in the perusal.  And this is probably the case with most reading matter,
except when it is of that highly beneficial kind (for Posterity) which is “thrown off in a
few moments of leisure” by the superior poetic geniuses who scorn to take prose pains.

It must be admitted, however, that Barbox by no means hurried himself. His heart being in his
work of good-nature, he revelled in it.  There was the joy, too (it was a true joy to him),
of sometimes sitting by, listening to Phœbe as she picked out more and more discourse from
her musical instrument, and as her natural taste and ear refined daily upon her first discoveries.
Besides being a pleasure, this was an occupation, and in the course of weeks it consumed hours.
It resulted that his dreaded birthday was close upon him before he had troubled himself any
more about it.

The matter was made more pressing by the unforeseen circumstance that the councils held (at
which Mr. Lamps, beaming most brilliantly, on a few rare occasions assisted) respecting the
road to be selected, were, after all, in no wise assisted by his investigations.  For, he had
connected this interest with this road, or that interest with the other, but could deduce no
reason from it for giving any road the preference. Consequently, when the last council was
holden, that part of the business stood, in the end, exactly where it had stood in the beginning.

“But, sir,” remarked Phœbe, “we have only six roads after all.  Is the seventh road dumb?”

“The seventh road?  O!” said Barbox Brothers, rubbing his chin.  “That is the road I took,
you know, when I went to get your little present.  That is its story, Phœbe.”

“Would you mind taking that road again, sir?” she asked with hesitation.

“Not in the least; it is a great high road after all.”

“I should like you to take it,” returned Phœbe, with a persuasive smile, “for the love of that
little present which must ever be so dear to me.  I should like you to take it, because that
road can never be again, like any other road to me.  I should like you to take it, in remembrance
of your having done me so much good: of your having made me so much happier! If you leave me
by the road you travelled when you went to do me this great kindness,” sounding a faint chord
as she spoke, “I shall feel, lying here watching at my window, as if it must conduct you to
a prosperous end, and bring you back some day.”

“It shall be done, my dear; it shall be done.”

So at last the gentleman for Nowhere took a ticket for Somewhere, and his destination was the
great ingenious town.

He had loitered so long about the Junction that it was the eighteenth of December when he left
it.  “High time,” he reflected, as he seated himself in the train, “that I started in earnest!
Only one clear day remains between me and the day I am running away from.  I’ll push onward
for the hill-country to-morrow.  I’ll go to Wales.”

It was with some pains that he placed before himself the undeniable advantages to be gained
in the way of novel occupation for his senses from misty mountains, swollen streams, rain,
cold, a wild seashore, and rugged roads.  And yet he scarcely made them out as distinctly as
he could have wished.  Whether the poor girl, in spite of her new resource, her music, would
have any feeling of loneliness upon her now—just at first—that she had not had before; whether
she saw those very puffs of steam and smoke that he saw, as he sat in the train thinking of
her; whether her face would have any pensive shadow on it as they died out of the distant view
from her window; whether, in telling him he had done her so much good, she had not unconsciously
corrected his old moody bemoaning of his station in life, by setting him thinking that a man
might be a great healer, if he would, and yet not be a great doctor; these and other similar
meditations got between him and his Welsh picture.  There was within him, too, that dull sense
of vacuity which follows separation from an object of interest, and cessation of a pleasant
pursuit; and this sense, being quite new to him, made him restless.  Further, in losing Mugby
Junction he had found himself again; and he was not the more enamoured of himself for having
lately passed his time in better company.

But surely, here not far ahead, must be the great ingenious town.  This crashing and clashing
that the train was undergoing, and this coupling on to it of a multitude of new echoes, could
mean nothing less than approach to the great station.  It did mean nothing less.  After some
stormy flashes of town lightning, in the way of swift revelations of red-brick blocks of houses,
high red-brick chimney-shafts, vistas of red-brick railway arches, tongues of fire, blots of
smoke, valleys of canal, and hills of coal, there came the thundering in at the journey’s end.

Having seen his portmanteaus safely housed in the hotel he chose, and having appointed his
dinner-hour, Barbox Brothers went out for a walk in the busy streets.  And now it began to
be suspected by him that Mugby Junction was a Junction of many branches, invisible as well
as visible, and had joined him to an endless number of byways.  For, whereas he would, but
a little while ago, have walked these streets blindly brooding, he now had eyes and thoughts
for a new external world.  How the many toiling people lived, and loved, and died; how wonderful
it was to consider the various trainings of eye and hand, the nice distinctions of sight and
touch, that separated them into classes of workers, and even into classes of workers at subdivisions
of one complete whole which combined their many intelligences and forces, though of itself
but some cheap object of use or ornament in common life; how good it was to know that such
assembling in a multitude on their part, and such contribution of their several dexterities
towards a civilising end, did not deteriorate them as it was the fashion of the supercilious
May-flies of humanity to pretend, but engendered among them a self-respect and yet a modest
desire to be much wiser than they were (the first evinced in their well-balanced bearing and
manner of speech when he stopped to ask a question; the second, in the announcements of their
popular studies and amusements on the public walls); these considerations, and a host of such,
made his walk a memorable one.  “I too am but a little part of a great whole,” he began to
think; “and to be serviceable to myself and others, or to be happy, I must cast my interest
into, and draw it out of, the common stock.”

Although he had arrived at his journey’s end for the day by noon, he had since insensibly walked
about the town so far and so long that the lamplighters were now at their work in the streets,
and the shops were sparkling up brilliantly.  Thus reminded to turn towards his quarters, he
was in the act of doing so, when a very little hand crept into his, and a very little voice said:

“O!  If you please, I am lost.”

He looked down, and saw a very little fair-haired girl.

“Yes,” she said, confirming her words with a serious nod.  “I am indeed. I am lost.”

Greatly perplexed, he stopped, looked about him for help, descried none, and said, bending
low: “Where do you live, my child?”

“I don’t know where I live,” she returned.  “I am lost.”

“What is your name?”

“Polly.”

“What is your other name?”

The reply was prompt, but unintelligible. The detection was carried out in that
    Telegonus around him heard by chance that the deceased Odysseus
    was.

    
    Oedipus & c. 11, 1 2. 15, 8 16, 5 24, 9 26, 6 Always without Additive
    in Aristotle, including the Oedipus Tyrannus only, Oedipus never Coloneus,
    of course. / * -: C. 13, 4th 14, 1st The Sage of Oedipus. -:
    11, 1 13, 3rd 14, 5 The person in the drama. * / Peleus: c. 18,
    2 Peleus, the aged father of Achilles, by his sons from his first
    marriage pushed from the throne is looking for his grandson Neoptolemos
    and dies on the island of Kos. The connection to It was a piece without
    much action and more pathetic Events set up. Euripides also wrote
    a Peleus and Aristotle also like these have had in mind.

    
    
    Phthiotinnen: c. 18, 2 One, how often in Sophocles, after the Chor-called
    tragedy of undetermined, though perhaps similar capacity with the
    previous one. In no case, however, the Peleus exactly the same substance
    are treated, whether by the same writer or not. Him to two tragedies
    of nowhere distribute testified Peleus trilogy of Aeschylus is pure
Arbitrariness.

    

    
    Sinon, & c. 23, 4th S. Ilias, the smallest.
    
    Tereus: c. 16, 2nd Tereus raped Philomela, the sister Procne his wife
    and cut off her tongue so she could not prosecute. They wove but sent
    in a carpet, which happened to her - this is the "voice of the spindle"
    - and the sisters took their revenge on the wicked by the murder
of his son Itys.

    The treated fabric also Philocles, a great-nephew of Aeschylus,
    and conqueror of Oedipus Tyrannus of Sophocles.

    
    
    Thyestes: c. 13, 4th Held in the same-titled drama. S. Thyestes.

Tyro:
    c. 16, 1st Tyro had secretly twins born to Poseidon and immersion
    in a tub. However, they were rescued, and when they were grown
    into young men, they met with their Mother were together, and from it
    by the very tub, which the One of them had taken with him, recognized.
    Then they avenged their Mother for the cruel treatment
    that she and her father Salmoneus Sidero her stepmother had let be given.
    Of the (p. 81) two tragedies of this title was the one probably
    only a Revamp.
Share the same substance had Astydamos the Younger and Karkinos dramatized,
the knowledge we Apollodorus (1, 9, 8) .

Thanks # /

Socratic discussions, & c. 1, 5 Aristotle understands by it ever been
the Platonic dialogues, in which Socrates appears as the main speaker,
but not the other Socrates students, as Aeschines, Antisthenes, Xenophon,
Phaidon written conversations.

Sophron (c. 450): c. 1, 5 The founder of a new literary genre of mime, drama Depicting scenes
from ordinary life and written in a kind of rhythmic prose. He was a favorite author of Plato, who
is said to have brought his work to Athens. The resulting fragments give us a clear picture
of his character, but the well-counterfeiting of Theocritus (15 Idyll)
and the poetic Minier of Herondas (c. 250 BC), in 1891 were discovered.

Sosistratos:

c. 26, 3 Rhapsodist only mentioned here, probably older contemporary of Aristotle.

Sthenelus: c. 22, 1st A mocked because of his icy style tragedian
Aristophanes (C. 420).

The comic poet Plato accused him of plagiarism.

Tegea: c. 24, 1 City in Arcadia, home of the Telephos.

Telegonus: S. Sophocles, Odysseus Akanthoplex.

Telemachus: c. 25, 16 Son of Odysseus and Penelope.

His trip to Sparta to inquire recovered by his father who tells the so-called Telemach, in the
Odyssey as 3-4, 619

    Telephos: c. 13, 4th Famous legendary figure, whose multiplicity of
    stories dramatized very often were so by Aeschylus (sd), Sophocles,
    Euripides, Agathon, Nicomachus, Cleophon, Iophon, Moschion.
    
    Theodectes: 16, 4 18, 1 Brilliant pupil of Isocrates and Plato, friend
    of Aristotle, Orator and a highly esteemed tragedians wrote 50 plays
and had seven winners.

    
    
    / # Lynkeus:
c. 11, 1 18, 1 Hero of the Danaidensage.

Hypermnestra was the only one of 50 daughters of Danaus, their husbands
Lynkeus saved against the command of her father.

After the birth of her son Abas tried to kill Danaos Lynkeus. In the course of action overtook
him, but in a recognition for us to not remember As the fate that
he (p. 82) allotted to that.

Tydeus: c. 16, 4th Not with the well-known fighters among the "Seven Against Thebes "is the same. The
indicated here tell us is completely unknown.

# /

Theodore:
    c. 20, 5th Just as an example.

    
    
    Theseis: c. 8, 2nd Theseusepen Zopyrus written, probably with the
    Orphic under Pisistratus (6th Cent identical), Diphilos (5th
    century) and an anonymous from unspecified time.
    
Thyestes: c. 13, 4th One of the most dramatic and heroic figures in
the tragic Events ranging Pelopidensage.

So by Sophocles (in two dramas), Euripides, Agathon, Apollodorus,
Karkinos (sd), Chaeremon, Cleophon and Roman tragic poets, Ennius,
Varius, Seneca (received), Curiatius Maternus.

Timotheos von Milet (✝ 357): c. 2, 3 Renowned composer, poet and nouns dithyrambs. A substantial
part of its Nomos "The Persians" was found 1902nd

/ # Cyclops, & c. 2, 3 S. Philoxenos

Scylla & c. 15, 5 26, 1 A dithyramb,
in the Odyssey of the described Adventure treated.

       The lament of the danger in Odysseus is pending as unmanly and character
of the Heroes do not reprimanded accordingly.

The flute player pulls the Choir leader in the garment to the efforts
of the Virgin to to win illustrate the hero.

# /

Xenarchos: c. 1, 5 Son of Sophron (sd). mentioned here only as a writer of mimes.

Xenophanes v. Colophon (c. 570-479): c. 25, 7 Poet and founder of the Eleatic school of philosophy.
Opponents of polytheism.

Zeuxis of Heraclea (southern Italy), flourished about 425: c. 6, 7
25, 18 One of the greatest painters of antiquity.

According to Aristotle, both idealized Polygnotos as Zeuxis. The former was, however, his characters
more character because he is more the individual Zeuxis the typical
expression brought.

* * * * *

INDEX (page 83)

Agon: c. 6, 16 7, 3rd 13, 4th The twice a year in Athens held dramatic competition the urban Dionysia
and Lenaeen.

The performance began in the early morning and lasted several days.

Each of the competitors entered with a tetralogy (three tragedies
and a Satyrdrama) on .-- In the musical agones mainly dithyrambs and
nouns were added to the c. is played 26, 3 .-- was also talk of the
struggle of the parties in the courtroom Agon.

Then the observation relates to the water meter (c. 7, 3).

Amphiboly (double meaning): c. 25, 14

Anagnorisis (recognition): c. 11, 2 defined.

Anapa and trochee, without: c. 12, 2nd Because of that a march rhythm, this one Tanzversmaß,
they are not suitable for standing choral song sung (Stasimon).

Article: c. 20, 4 In Aristotle not used by our senses.

As it was, even at the Stoic grammarians.

This is a serious argument against the assumption of the falseness
our chapter.

Aulet, & c. 1, 2 Because accompanied by the flute dithyramb was called immediately before, so
here under the pure instrumental music to understand.

Epithet, decorative (Cosmos): c. 21, 5 Definition and example have failed, so the Interpretation
not quite sure.

However, it is probably the epithet ornans meant that in the epic, however, far more common
than in the drama.

Flexion (flexion): c. 20, 7

Conjunction & c. 20, 3rd

Character: c. 20, 1

Democracy in Megara, & c. 3, 4 Around 590 BC

Dithyrambische seal, & c. 1, 2 Here and with one exception, otherwise the age-old, strophic still
structured and limited content Dionysian choral ode, which, after c. 4, 8, the tragedy should
have been hatched, but the semi-dramatic dithyramb like him Aristotle alone did not. The flute
players also seem to be acting work to have been (c. 26, 1).

Episode: With the exception of c. 12, 2nd [18, 6], where the word such as "act" is equivalent,
always in the us alone common meaning of an ingredient with the plot (P. 84) or as a story
in only loose or no connection is available.

Flexion: S. diffraction.

Fear: Defines c. 13, 2nd

Gender: S. grammar and Protagoras.

Gloss (foreign word, provincialism, accent word): c. 21, 3

Grammar
(parts of speech, gender, case, etc.): c. 20.

21.

Despite some basic preparation (P. Protagoras) was on the grammar nor the time of Aristotle
in its infancy Their scientific development and terminology are only the Stoics and Alexandrian Philologists
owe at the time, we also serve fixed terms, through the mediation of Latin, to the present day,
even while maintaining a translation error (Instead of accusative causative).

If you have often found it strange that such a seemingly basic things
in a Poetry are discussed in detail, it should be noted to the fact
that Aristotle once they has specifically designated as belonging
to her.

Semi-vowel (Liquids): c. 20, 1

Jambos: c. 4, 5 9. Aristotle says in the first place, that the Jambos are particularly suitable
have been found for the satirical poem. At the second that, just by nature of iambic trimeter
eventually turned out as the most appropriate verse for dramatic dialogue. This is not a contradiction,
because in both cases it was, as far as possible, the Jargon adapt and not go through the conversational
tone.

Catharsis: "Cleaning" c. 6, 2 Since Lessing and especially since Bernays
(see the introduction P. XV) most controversial point of the entire
poetics.

Even the place where Aristotle have been promised more detailed explanation
of the expression is still no agreement reached been.

Without the famous controversy here somehow to be addressed, if only
so much generally observed that no two facts should be rattled: 1
The term is a medical metaphor.

2. He describes the effect, not the purpose of tragedy for as Aristotle calls repeatedly and
unequivocally that (c. 4, 2 13, 6 14, 2 23, 1 26, 8) a peculiar feeling of pleasure her. It also
raises the question resolved itself, whether this ultimate goal, from which this not at all (p. 85)
is the speech, a moral or ethical an aesthetically-psychological, or Ought. As regards the
other hand, the cathartic effect therefore likely Aristotle acknowledged both possibilities,
in contrast to Plato, who famously the former is called, but denied the recent tragedy such as
the epic and an aesthetic not at all taken into account.

Lyre: c. 1, 2 The guitar (Lyra) was the usual accompaniment of the prefecture, the not here next
to the aulodischen dithyramb probably only accidentally listed with (is S. c. 1, 2). Nevertheless, it is
probably correct here, as in Aulet (sd), the purely instrumental music need to understand

Klepsydra: S. water meter.

Cosmos: S. epithet, decorative.

Engine: c. 15, 7 Usually the term refers to the familiar deus ex machina, which shows by the theater
at the increased engine, so-called gods platform (theologeion) is accomplished. These are
exceptional in one case to the dragon wagon the fleeing Medea. In another example taken from
the Iliad (see Homer, Iliad) is the Name figuratively of any gods phenomenon that suddenly here
in the Athena Action engages needed.

Metaphor & c. 21, 4 defined. 22, 2nd 7.

Mimetic (imitative representation): c. 1, 2 and elsewhere The word "imitation" exhausted the
concept this artistic expression, for he referred to Aristotle, not only the reproduction of objects
in the outside world, but especially the acting of acts and people So a spiritual symbolization
of human activity and bustle. It is therefore not correctly, they say that the artistic imagination
in creating the "poetry" of the Aristotle was not taken into account.

The lyrical poetry, Aristotle, already According to the preface, of his discussion is not
off, but she comes to him only so far considered, as it contains a myth, a fable or an action.
Their discussion We, however, as the crossed the comedy is lost.

Compassion & c. 13, 2 defined.

Imitative representation: S. mimesis.

Not Lauter (Muta): c. 20, 1 (P. 86)

Nomos: c. 2, 3 Originally a choral song in the cult of Apollo. His varied and interesting Evolution
found by Timotheos (sd) their conclusion, the first in the very latest Time rediscovered "Persian"
We now have a clear idea of ​​the seal species, at least to give time of Aristotle. We lack,
however, a complete example of contemporary dithyramb to recognize
the differences between the two clearer.

In best of our poetry plays a very minor role Nomos, probably because he had a less dramatic than
the character wore dithyramb.

Problems: c. 25, 1 - 22 The literary, as the textual criticism of the Greeks developed, and that
pretty early in the Homeric poems. From Aristotle himself was it is a font "Homeric Questions,"
which has been widely used.

In the following years, especially among the Alexandrians, the search for contradictions, factual,
and text-critical problems in the Homeric epics and, accordingly, the discovery of "solutions"
operated almost excessively sport been. Related to the nose as the subtle observation is admirable
and they have understandably often led to valuable results. On the other hand, however, have
and the ambition to shine through ingenuity and a lack of understanding of Homer's naivety to
subtle and sophistical are often silly or funny-looking statements cause given. In a number of
cases it seems that even the "problem" only some of a learned or ingenious solution to have
invented smoothly to love. For all this we have such rich Chapter documents. Some of the above
mentioned "problems and solutions" are found in later Commentators of Homer, others taken from
earlier sources, Aristotle. How many but its intellectual property can be, not tell anymore,
since it is not readily write only the acceptable solutions must.

8. "But the spears, etc." It was thought that the establishment of the lances described this
could fall over, others drag you along and disturb the sleep of the camp. The proposed statement
relieves the poet, does not solve the alleged problem.

10. "The mouths first." It came from the fact that when the plague sent by Apollo "Mouths" were
carried off before the guilty man. The solution given (p. 87) is invalid because even if the word
"guardian" could mean - it comes only once in a verse Before Ilias, - it shall, but on the following
"and the swift dogs," the same Concerns is subject not to.

10. "The stature but ugly."

The "problem" is not available and is probably only invented in order to bring in the far-fetched,
erudite note to the man. For just the odd combination of a body with speed unevenness of the feet
would the poet to emphasize how the particles' men - alla "(though - however) prove. The proposed
Solution is also no obvious contrast (although ugly face, but swift).

10.

"Mixer wine:" The initiative, which you took it, Aristotle is in the text. The Solution is
based on the quite arbitrary assumption that Zoro in Greek, the importance "Fast" has. The alleged
ethical "Inappropriate" (aprepés) was also later very often cause violent changes of text and
interpretation.

11. "All" to mean "many."

Aristotle has Homer in his texts "all," not "other," what all Hss, also of Homer, offer to have
read, because otherwise the solution given purpose. In this condition, it is acceptable, but is
precisely the word "All" is used in other languages ​​very often hyperbolic.

11. "But not taking part." The astronomical mistake that the Bears star alone among the pole
located at the constellations not go, the critics busy. The given
solution can be found here but not otherwise.

It is based on the idea of ​​omniscience of Homer, which was later raised especially by the
Stoics to the principle. Aristotle would have here can be considered quiet the same excuse
that he for Pindar, of the hind Horns were (c. 25, 5), leads.

12th "We give him:" This and the following problem as its solution - the former is of Aristotle
once more in detail in a written alleviate discussed, but without
Hippias to name of Thasos - have the fact that a prerequisite course
first hand and accents around the turn of the 3rd Century BC have
been set. Depending on the emphasis on the word didomen to the first
or second (p. 88) silver falls, it can "give us" or "grant" . Mean
Hippias took the former, under the principle of "Inappropriate" (see
above), so as to Agamemnon, where the guilt of having a false promise
of God in the highest to pass that sent the god of dreams. The subtle
seemingly self-satisfied solution the ancient critics, and so they
resorted to violent means the offensive half-verse, the now at a much
later point is to replace it with another, and this is there are no
variant alone survived. Hippias and Aristotle, it can still have not
known.

12. "The part": The following is the strong hint of character
set or not, it means ou either "his" (hu) or "not" (u). In spirit,
only the latter is even possible and so all our Homer and the ancient
commentators write hss not ignore the existing Problem completely.
Hippias seems to have raised only half the solution.

13. "Mixed what
loud before." The almost total lack of any punctuation in the drawn
up in large letters was written especially for the free word order
in Greek a constant source of misunderstandings. Aristotle himself
said once that it is difficult is, interpungieren the sentences of
Heraclitus in spirit. In our case we can in Greek equally well with
the previously mixed louder than combine. From the more complete,
otherwise traditional authority is clear, however, that only the former
corresponds to the context.

14. "The greater part". It was believed
a wicked contradiction in the statement alleged to Found that two
thirds of the night had elapsed, remain, the greater part still remains
could. An old commentator calls this an "extremely trite problem"
to solve the many tried, including Aristotle (namely in the "Homeric
Questions"). The problem exists but not if you look at the passage
quoted supra sees exactly what is also its Solutions are unnecessary.

15.
The three are based on the basis of language use apologized inaccuracies
on a Metonymy, as the technical expression goes. As Ganymede, known
as "Weinschenk" of the gods is, although they do not drink wine, but
nectar, so is even more striking way Lifting almost Weinschenkin (p.
89) of the nectar (Iliad 4, 3) called, what a place for our had not
made a better example. You can also compare Tac. Germ. 22 where the
beer drunken Germans needed vinolenti.

The fact that the splint manufactured
not only from the soft tin, but from a metal mixture was probably
Aristotle concluded from this that in supervising the Iliasstelle
Greaves Achilles' spear of Agenor taken only shook mightily to be
pierced without .-- coppersmith The earlier word was still maintained,
as we have long worked on the iron.

You can compare the name of the
Centumviralgerichts in Rome, which remained, as the members were well
over 100. The same happened with the Germanic "hundreds".

16. "Stopped
at the bronze spear" A lot treated "problem." The famous Alexandrian
Homer critic Aristarchus rejected the whole place and was of the opinion
that the verses are of someone has been interpolated to provide only
a problem. These are the five metal layers Achilles' shield, of which
the lance of Aineas had pierced two, and then put remained. Dispute
was whether the gold layer in the middle, or what was the most natural,
from the Outside was. The name this
distinguished foreigner brought with her from beneath the glowing skies of a sunny clime was
(on Polly’s authority) Miss Melluka, and the costly nature of her outfit as a housekeeper,
from the Barbox coffers, may be inferred from the two facts that her silver teaspoons were
as large as her kitchen poker, and that the proportions of her watch exceeded those of her
frying-pan.  Miss Melluka was graciously pleased to express her entire approbation of the Circus,
and so was Polly; for the ponies were speckled, and brought down nobody when they fired, and
the savagery of the wild beasts appeared to be mere smoke—which article, in fact, they did
produce in large quantities from their insides.  The Barbox absorption in the general subject
throughout the realisation of these delights was again a sight to see, nor was it less worthy
to behold at dinner, when he drank to Miss Melluka, tied stiff in a chair opposite to Polly
(the fair Circassian possessing an unbendable spine), and even induced the waiter to assist
in carrying out with due decorum the prevailing glorious idea.  To wind up, there came the
agreeable fever of getting Miss Melluka and all her wardrobe and rich possessions into a fly
with Polly, to be taken home.  But by that time Polly had become unable to look upon such accumulated
joys with waking eyes, and had withdrawn her consciousness into the wonderful Paradise of a
child’s sleep. “Sleep, Polly, sleep,” said Barbox Brothers, as her head dropped on his shoulder;
“you shall not fall out of this bed, easily, at any rate!”

What rustling piece of paper he took from his pocket, and carefully folded into the bosom of
Polly’s frock, shall not be mentioned.  He said nothing about it, and nothing shall be said
about it.  They drove to a modest suburb of the great ingenious town, and stopped at the forecourt
of a small house.  “Do not wake the child,” said Barbox Brothers, softly, to the driver, “I
will carry her in as she is.”

Greeting the light at the opened door which was held by Polly’s mother, Polly’s bearer passed
on with mother and child into a ground-floor room. There, stretched on a sofa, lay a sick man,
sorely wasted, who covered his eyes with his emaciated hands.

“Tresham,” said Barbox, in a kindly voice, “I have brought you back your Polly, fast asleep.
Give me your hand, and tell me you are better.”

The sick man reached forth his right hand, and bowed his head over the hand into which it was
taken and kissed it.  “Thank you, thank you!  I may say that I am well and happy.”

“That’s brave,” said Barbox.  “Tresham, I have a fancy—can you make room for me beside you here?”

He sat down on the sofa as he said words, cherishing the plump peachy cheek that lay uppermost
on his shoulder.

“I have a fancy, Tresham (I am getting quite an old fellow now, you know, and old fellows may
take fancies into their heads sometimes), to give up Polly, having found her, to no one but
you.  Will you take her from me?”

As the father held out his arms for the child, each of the two men looked steadily at the other.

“She is very dear to you, Tresham?”

“Unutterably dear.”

“God bless her!  It is not much, Polly,” he continued, turning his eyes upon her peaceful face
as he apostrophised her, “it is not much, Polly, for a blind and sinful man to invoke a blessing
on something so far better than himself as a little child is; but it would be much—much upon
his cruel head, and much upon his guilty soul—if he could be so wicked as to invoke a curse.
He had better have a millstone round his neck, and be cast into the deepest sea.  Live and
thrive, my pretty baby!”  Here he kissed her.  “Live and prosper, and become in time the mother
of other little children, like the Angels who behold The Father’s face!”

He kissed her again, gave her up gently to both her parents, and went out.

But he went not to Wales.  No, he never went to Wales.  He went straightway for another stroll
about the town, and he looked in upon the people at their work, and at their play, here, there,
everywhere, and where not.  For he was Barbox Brothers and Co. now, and had taken thousands
of partners into the solitary firm.

He had at length got back to his hotel room, and was standing before his fire refreshing himself
with a glass of hot drink which he had stood upon the chimney-piece, when he heard the town
clocks striking, and, referring to his watch, found the evening to have so slipped away, that
they were striking twelve.  As he put up his watch again, his eyes met those of his reflection
in the chimney-glass.

“Why it’s your birthday already,” he said, smiling.  “You are looking very well.  I wish you
many happy returns of the day.”

He had never before bestowed that wish upon himself.  “By Jupiter!” he discovered, “it alters
the whole case of running away from one’s birthday!  It’s a thing to explain to Phœbe.  Besides,
here is quite a long story to tell her, that has sprung out of the road with no story. I’ll
go back, instead of going on.  I’ll go back by my friend Lamps’s Up X presently.”

He went back to Mugby Junction, and in point of fact he established himself at Mugby Junction.
It was the convenient place to live in, for brightening Phœbe’s life.  It was the convenient
place to live in, for having her taught music by Beatrice.  It was the convenient place to
live in, for occasionally borrowing Polly.  It was the convenient place to live in, for being
joined at will to all sorts of agreeable places and persons.  So, he became settled there,
and, his house standing in an elevated situation, it is noteworthy of him in conclusion, as
Polly herself might (not irreverently) have put it:

    There was an Old Barbox who lived on a hill,
    And if he ain’t gone, he lives there still.

HERE FOLLOWS THE SUBSTANCE OF WHAT WAS SEEN, HEARD, OR OTHERWISE PICKED UP, BY THE GENTLEMAN
FOR NOWHERE, IN HIS CAREFUL STUDY OF THE JUNCTION.

MAIN LINE THE BOY AT MUGBY

I am The Boy at Mugby.  That’s about what I am.

You don’t know what I mean?  What a pity!  But I think you do.  I think you must.  Look here.
I am the Boy at what is called The Refreshment Room at Mugby Junction, and what’s proudest
boast is, that it never yet refreshed a mortal being.

Up in a corner of the Down Refreshment Room at Mugby Junction, in the height of twenty-seven
cross draughts (I’ve often counted ’em while they brush the First Class hair twenty-seven ways),
behind the bottles, among the glasses, bounded on the nor’-west by the beer, stood pretty far
to the right of a metallic object that’s at times the tea-urn and at times the soup-tureen,
according to the nature of the last twang imparted to its contents which are the same groundwork,
fended off from the traveller by a barrier of stale sponge-cakes erected atop of the counter,
and lastly exposed sideways to the glare of our Missis’s eye—you ask a Boy so sitiwated, next
time you stop in a hurry at Mugby, for anything to drink; you take particular notice that he’ll
try to seem not to hear you, that he’ll appear in a absent manner to survey the Line through
a transparent medium composed of your head and body, and that he won’t serve you as long as
you can possibly bear it.  That’s Me.

What a lark it is!  We are the Model Establishment, we are, at Mugby. Other Refreshment Rooms
send their imperfect young ladies up to be finished off by our Missis.  For some of the young
ladies, when they’re new to the business, come into it mild!  Ah!  Our Missis, she soon takes
that out of ’em.  Why, I originally come into the business meek myself. But Our Missis she
soon took that out of me.

What a delightful lark it is!  I look upon us Refreshmenters as ockipying the only proudly
independent footing on the Line.  There’s Papers for instance—my honourable friend if he will
allow me to call him so—him as belongs to Smith’s bookstall.  Why he no more dares to be up
to our Refreshmenting games, than he dares to jump atop of a locomotive with her steam at full
pressure, and cut away upon her alone, driving himself, at limited-mail speed.  Papers, he’d
get his head punched at every compartment, first, second and third, the whole length of a train,
if he was to ventur to imitate my demeanour.  It’s the same with the porters, the same with
the guards, the same with the ticket clerks, the same the whole way up to the secretary, traffic
manager, or very chairman.  There ain’t a one among ’em on the nobly independent footing we
are.  Did you ever catch one of them, when you wanted anything of him, making a system of surveying
the Line through a transparent medium composed of your head and body?  I should hope not.

You should see our Bandolining Room at Mugby Junction.  It’s led to, by the door behind the
counter which you’ll notice usually stands ajar, and it’s the room where Our Missis and our
young ladies Bandolines their hair.  You should see ’em at it, betwixt trains, Bandolining
away, as if they was anointing themselves for the combat.  When you’re telegraphed, you should
see their noses all a going up with scorn, as if it was a part of the working of the same Cooke
and Wheatstone electrical machinery. You should hear Our Missis give the word “Here comes the
Beast to be Fed!” and then you should see ’em indignantly skipping across the Line, from the
Up to the Down, or Wicer Warsaw, and begin to pitch the stale pastry into the plates, and chuck
the sawdust sangwiches under the glass covers, and get out the—ha ha ha!—the Sherry—O my eye,
my eye!—for your Refreshment.

It’s only in the Isle of the Brave and Land of the Free (by which of course I mean to say Britannia)
that Refreshmenting is so effective, so ’olesome, so constitutional, a check upon the public.
There was a foreigner, which having politely, with his hat off, beseeched our young ladies
and Our Missis for “a leetel gloss hoff prarndee,” and having had the Line surveyed through
him by all and no other acknowledgment, was a proceeding at last to help himself, as seems
to be the custom in his own country, when Our Missis with her hair almost a coming un-Bandolined
with rage, and her eyes omitting sparks, flew at him, cotched the decanter out of his hand,
and said: “Put it down!  I won’t allow that!”  The foreigner turned pale, stepped back with
his arms stretched out in front of him, his hands clasped, and his shoulders riz, and exclaimed:
“Ah!  Is it possible this!  That these disdaineous females and this ferocious old woman are
placed here by the administration, not only to empoison the voyagers, but to affront them!
Great Heaven!  How arrives it?  The English people.  Or is he then a slave?  Or idiot?”  Another
time, a merry wideawake American gent had tried the sawdust and spit it out, and had tried
the Sherry and spit that out, and had tried in vain to sustain exhausted natur upon Butter-Scotch,
and had been rather extra Bandolined and Line-surveyed through, when, as the bell was ringing
and he paid Our Missis, he says, very loud and good-tempered: “I tell Yew what ’tis, ma’arm.
I la’af.  Theer!  I la’af.  I Dew.  I oughter ha’ seen most things, for I hail from the Onlimited
side of the Atlantic Ocean, and I haive travelled right slick over the Limited, head on through
Jee-rusalemm and the East, and likeways France and Italy, Europe Old World, and am now upon
the track to the Chief Europian Village; but such an Institution as Yew, and Yewer young ladies,
and Yewer fixin’s solid and liquid, afore the glorious Tarnal I never did see yet!  Wheerfur—Theer!—I
la’af!  I Dew, ma’arm.  I la’af!” And so he went, stamping and shaking his sides, along the
platform all the way to his own compartment.

I think it was her standing up agin the Foreigner, as giv’ Our Missis the idea of going over
to France, and droring a comparison betwixt Refreshmenting as followed among the frog-eaters,
and Refreshmenting as triumphant in the Isle of the Brave and Land of the Free (by which of
course I mean to say agin, Britannia).  Our young ladies, Miss Whiff, Miss Piff, and Mrs. Sniff,
was unanimous opposed to her going; for, as they says to Our Missis one and all, it is well
beknown to the hends of the herth as no other nation except Britain has a idea of anythink,
but above all of business.  Why then should you tire yourself to prove what is aready proved?
Our Missis however (being a teazer at all pints) stood out grim obstinate, and got a return
pass by South-Eastern Tidal, to go right through, if such should be her dispositions, to Marseilles.

Sniff is husband to Mrs. Sniff, and is a regular insignificant cove.  He looks arter the sawdust
department in a back room, and is sometimes when we are very hard put to it let in behind the
counter with a corkscrew; but never when it can be helped, his demeanour towards the public
being disgusting servile.  How Mrs. Sniff ever come so far to lower herself as to marry him,
I don’t know; but I suppose he does, and I should think he wished he didn’t, for he leads a
awful life.  Mrs. Sniff couldn’t be much harder with him if he was public.  Similarly, Miss
Whiff and Miss Piff; taking the tone of Mrs. Sniff, they shoulder Sniff about when he is let
in with a corkscrew, and they whisk things out of his hands when in his servility he is a going
to let the public have ’em, and they snap him up when in the crawling baseness of his spirit
he is a going to answer a public question, and they drore more tears into his eyes than ever
the mustard does which he all day long lays on to the sawdust.  (But it ain’t strong.)  Once,
when Sniff had the repulsiveness to reach across to get the milk-pot to hand over for a baby,
I see Our Missis in her rage catch him by both his shoulders and spin him out into the Bandolining
Room.

But Mrs. Sniff.  How different!  She’s the one!  She’s the one as you’ll notice to be always
looking another way from you, when you look at her. She’s the one with the small waist buckled
in tight in front, and with the lace cuffs at her wrists, which she puts on the edge of the
counter before her, and stands a smoothing while the public foams.  This smoothing the cuffs
and looking another way while the public foams, is the last accomplishment taught to the young
ladies as come to Mugby to be finished by Our Missis; and it’s always taught by Mrs. Sniff.

When Our Missis went away upon her journey, Mrs. Sniff was left in charge.  She did hold the
public in check most beautiful!  In all my time, I never see half so many cups of tea given
without milk to people as wanted it with, nor half so many cups of tea with milk given to people
as wanted it without.  When foaming ensued, Mrs. Sniff would say: “Then you’d better settle
it among yourselves, and change with one another.” It was a most highly delicious lark.  I
enjoyed the Refreshmenting business more than ever, and was so glad I had took to it when young.

Our Missis returned.  It got circulated among the young ladies, and it as it might be penetrated
to me through the crevices of the Bandolining Room, that she had Orrors to reveal, if revelations
so contemptible could be dignified with the name.  Agitation become awakened.  Excitement was
up in the stirrups.  Expectation stood a tiptoe.  At length it was put forth that on our slackest
evening in the week, and at our slackest time of that evening betwixt trains, Our Missis would
give her views of foreign Refreshmenting, in the Bandolining Room.

It was arranged tasteful for the purpose.  The Bandolining table and glass was hid in a corner,
a arm-chair was elevated on a packing-case for Our Missis’s ockypation, a table and a tumbler
of water (no sherry in it, thankee) was placed beside it.  Two of the pupils, the season being
autumn, and hollyhocks and daliahs being in, ornamented the wall with three devices in those
flowers.  On one might be read, “MAY ALBION NEVER LEARN;” on another, “KEEP THE PUBLIC DOWN;”
on another, “OUR REFRESHMENTING CHARTER.”  The whole had a beautiful appearance, with which
the beauty of the sentiments corresponded.

On Our Missis’s brow was wrote Severity, as she ascended the fatal platform.  (Not that that
was anythink new.)  Miss Whiff and Miss Piff sat at her feet.  Three chairs from the Waiting
Room might have been perceived by a average eye, in front of her, on which the pupils was accommodated.
Behind them, a very close observer might have discerned a Boy.  Myself.

“Where,” said Our Missis, glancing gloomily around, “is Sniff?”

“I thought it better,” answered Mrs. Sniff, “that he should not be let to come in.  He is such
an Ass.”

“No doubt,” assented Our Missis.  “But for that reason is it not desirable to improve his mind?”

“O!  Nothing will ever improve him,” said Mrs. Sniff.

“However,” pursued Our Missis, “call him in, Ezekiel.”

I called him in.  The appearance of the low-minded cove was hailed with disapprobation from
all sides, on account of his having brought his corkscrew with him.  He pleaded “the force
of habit.”

“The force!” said Mrs. Sniff.  “Don’t let us have you talking about force, for Gracious sake.
There!  Do stand still where you are, with your back against the wall.”

He is a smiling piece of vacancy, and he smiled in the mean way in which he will even smile
at the public if he gets a chance (language can say no meaner of him), and he stood upright
near the door with the back of his head agin the wall, as if he was a waiting for somebody
to come and measure his heighth for the Army.

“I should not enter, ladies,” says Our Missis, “on the revolting disclosures I am about to
make, if it was not in the hope that they will cause you to be yet more implacable in the exercise
of the power you wield in a constitutional country, and yet more devoted to the constitutional
motto which I see before me;” it was behind her, but the words sounded better so; “‘May Albion
never learn!’”

Here the pupils as had made the motto, admired it, and cried, “Hear! Hear!  Hear!”  Sniff,
showing an inclination to join in chorus, got himself frowned down by every brow.

“The baseness of the French,” pursued Our Missis, “as displayed in the fawning nature of their
Refreshmenting, equals, if not surpasses, anythink as was ever heard of the baseness of the
celebrated Buonaparte.”

Miss Whiff, Miss Piff and me, we drored a heavy breath, equal to saying, “We thought as much!”

Miss Whiff and Miss Piff seeming to object to my droring mine along with theirs, I drored another,
to aggravate ’em.

“Shall I be believed,” says Our Missis, with flashing eyes, “when I tell you that no sooner
had I set my foot upon that treacherous shore—”

Here Sniff, either busting out mad, or thinking aloud, says, in a low voice: “Feet.  Plural,
you know.”

The cowering that come upon him when he was spurned by all eyes, added to his being beneath
contempt, was sufficient punishment for a cove so grovelling.  In the midst of a silence rendered
more impressive by the turned-up female noses with which it was pervaded, Our Missis went on:

“Shall I be believed when I tell you that no sooner had I landed,” this word with a killing
look at Sniff, “on that treacherous shore, than I was ushered into a Refreshment Room where
there were, I do not exaggerate, actually eatable things to eat?”

A groan burst from the ladies.  I not only did myself the honour of jining, but also of lengthening
it out.

“Where there were,” Our Missis added, “not only eatable things to eat, but also drinkable things
to drink?”

A murmur, swelling almost into a scream, ariz.  Miss Piff, trembling with indignation, called
out: “Name!”

“I will name,” said Our Missis.  “There was roast fowls, hot and cold; there was smoking roast
veal surrounded with browned potatoes; there was hot soup with (again I ask shall I be credited?)
nothing bitter in it, and no flour to choke off the consumer; there was a variety of cold dishes
set off with jelly; there was salad; there was—mark me!—fresh pastry, and that of a light construction;
there was a luscious show of fruit.  There was bottles and decanters of sound small wine, of
every size and adapted to every pocket; the same odious statement will apply to brandy; and
these were set out upon the counter so that all could help themselves.”

Our Missis’s lips so quivered, that Mrs. Sniff, though scarcely less convulsed than she were,
got up and held the tumbler to them.

“This,” proceeds Our Missis, “was my first unconstitutional experience. Well would it have
been, if it had been my last and worst.  But no.  As I proceeded further into that enslaved
and ignorant land, its aspect became more hideous.  I need not explain to this assembly, the
ingredients and formation of the British Refreshment sangwich?”

Universal laughter—except from Sniff, who, as sangwich-cutter, shook his head in a state of
the utmost dejection as he stood with it agin the wall.

“Well!” said Our Missis, with dilated nostrils.  “Take a fresh crisp long crusty penny loaf
made of the whitest and best flower.  Cut it longwise through the middle.  Insert a fair and
nicely fitting slice of ham.  Tie a smart piece of ribbon round the middle of the whole to
bind it together.  Add at one end a neat wrapper of clean white paper by which to hold it.
And the universal French Refreshment sangwich busts on your disgusted vision.”

A cry of “Shame!” from all—except Sniff, which rubbed his stomach with a soothing hand.

“I need not,” said Our Missis, “explain to this assembly, the usual formation and fitting of
the British Refreshment Room?”

No, no, and laughter.  Sniff agin shaking his head in low spirits agin the wall. Finally (4) is the epic poem a less uniform imitative representation. Proof of this is that
from any mimetic representation, several tragedies can form, so that, even if they (the epic)
to create a single plot, this, either cut off, if briefly presented or, if the expansion of
the (epic) Versgattung pace holds, would appear watery. I mean, if it (the has epic) as composed of
several actions such as the Iliad, many of these parts and the Odyssey, parts, and they retain
for itself a (sufficient) expansion. And yet he (Homer), these poems in the most excellent way
possible, it is built and its imitative Representation, as far as it possibly can, to a single
action. (P. 67)

8. When is superior, therefore they (the tragedy) in all these (benefits) and also by The aim
of art - for that (seal species) should not create any sensation of pleasure, but only those
already mentioned - so obvious that it excellent as the epic poetry is, by achieving their ultimate
goal of complete.

[Sidenote: c. 26, 9 Advantage of the tragedy before the epic.]

9.

       So the tragedy and the epic, both in itself as to the type and components,
how many are their and how they differ, what the causes of their success
or Fiasco, and the problems and their solutions may be said such ....

*
* * * *

NAME LIST [99] (p. 68)

Agathon (c. 447-400): c. 9, 5 18,
4th 5.

6. Famous, highly esteemed by Aristotle tragedians.

His first victory (417 / 6) is based on the narrative framework of Plato's Symposium, where he also
participates as a speaker. His independence and originality, however, indicate the not commendable
detachment of the choral songs of the act by filing of interludes (Embolima) and especially its freely
invented tragedy Anthe, earlier erroneously Anthos "Flower" and since Welch also often termed
Antheus.

Aiasdramen: c. 18, 2 These were in addition to the resultant of Sophocles and Aeschylus ("weapons of court");
Karkinos, Theodectes, Astydamas this year, Livy, Ennius, Pacuvius, Accius and Augustus. In the
Competition for the weapons of Achilles Odysseus won. This defeat took Ajax thus Heart that
he fell into madness.  Fancy the Beast travelling six hundred
miles on end, very fast, and with great punctuality, yet being taught to expect all this to
be done for it!”

A spirited chorus of “The Beast!”

I noticed that Sniff was agin a rubbing his stomach with a soothing hand, and that he had drored
up one leg.  But agin I didn’t take particular notice, looking on myself as called upon to
stimilate public feeling.  It being a lark besides.

“Putting everything together,” said Our Missis, “French Refreshmenting comes to this, and O
it comes to a nice total!  First: eatable things to eat, and drinkable things to drink.”

A groan from the young ladies, kep’ up by me.

“Second: convenience, and even elegance.”

Another groan from the young ladies, kep’ up by me.

“Third: moderate charges.”

This time, a groan from me, kep’ up by the young ladies.

“Fourth:—and here,” says Our Missis, “I claim your angriest sympathy—attention, common civility,
nay, even politeness!”

Me and the young ladies regularly raging mad all together.

“And I cannot in conclusion,” says Our Missis, with her spitefullest sneer, “give you a completer
pictur of that despicable nation (after what I have related), than assuring you that they wouldn’t
bear our constitutional ways and noble independence at Mugby Junction, for a single month,
and that they would turn us to the right-about and put another system in our places, as soon
as look at us; perhaps sooner, for I do not believe they have the good taste to care to look
at us twice.”

The swelling tumult was arrested in its rise.  Sniff, bore away by his servile disposition,
had drored up his leg with a higher and a higher relish, and was now discovered to be waving
his corkscrew over his head. It was at this moment that Mrs. Sniff, who had kep’ her eye upon
him like the fabled obelisk, descended on her victim.  Our Missis followed them both out, and
cries was heard in the sawdust department.

You come into the Down Refreshment Room, at the Junction, making believe you don’t know me,
and I’ll pint you out with my right thumb over my shoulder which is Our Missis, and which is
Miss Whiff; and which is Miss Piff; and which is Mrs. Sniff.  But you won’t get a chance to
see Sniff, because he disappeared that night.  Whether he perished, tore to pieces, I cannot
say; but his corkscrew alone remains, to bear witness to the servility of his disposition.

NO. 1 BRANCH LINE THE SIGNAL-MAN

“Halloa!  Below there!”

When he heard a voice thus calling to him, he was standing at the door of his box, with a flag
in his hand, furled round its short pole.  One would have thought, considering the nature of
the ground, that he could not have doubted from what quarter the voice came; but, instead of
looking up to where I stood on the top of the steep cutting nearly over his head, he turned
himself about and looked down the Line.  There was something remarkable in his manner of doing
so, though I could not have said, for my life, what.  But, I know it was remarkable enough
to attract my notice, even though his figure was foreshortened and shadowed, down in the deep
trench, and mine was high above him, so steeped in the glow of an angry sunset that I had shaded
my eyes with my hand before I saw him at all.

“Halloa!  Below!”

From looking down the Line, he turned himself about again, and, raising his eyes, saw my figure
high above him.

“Is there any path by which I can come down and speak to you?”

He looked up at me without replying, and I looked down at him without pressing him too soon
with a repetition of my idle question.  Just then, there came a vague vibration in the earth
and air, quickly changing into a violent pulsation, and an oncoming rush that caused me to
start back, as though it had force to draw me down.  When such vapour as rose to my height
from this rapid train, had passed me and was skimming away over the landscape, I looked down
again and saw him re-furling the flag he had shown while the train went by.

I repeated my inquiry.  After a pause, during which he seemed to regard me with fixed attention,
he motioned with his rolled-up flag towards a point on my level, some two or three hundred
yards distant.  I called down to him, “All right!” and made for that point.  There, by dint
of looking closely about me, I found a rough zig-zag descending path notched out: which I followed.

The cutting was extremely deep, and unusually precipitate.  It was made through a clammy stone
that became oozier and wetter as I went down.  For these reasons, I found the way long enough
to give me time to recall a singular air of reluctance or compulsion with which he had pointed
out the path.

When I came down low enough upon the zig-zag descent, to see him again, I saw that he was standing
between the rails on the way by which the train had lately passed, in an attitude as if he
were waiting for me to appear. Finally the scene in the Phiniden: After the women of the village in sight
were they made on their fate because they had determined the fate of this place to die, for
even there they were suspended. There is also a composite Type of recognition from the fallacy of the
one (the person addressed), such as in "Odysseus the Trugbote. "Since the alleged one (Ulysses),
he alone could draw the bow, and no other. This makes him the poet said, according to tradition,
he now adds, however, he would recognize the bow, but he never saw, so was the assumption that
he would these (really) to recognize a false conclusion.

[Sidenote: c. 16, 5 Types of anagnorisis.]

5. Recognition of all types but is that which arises from the events themselves, the best so far
because of the surprise events are likely, as in Oedipus Sophocles [29] and in the Iphigeneia
[30], because it is quite likely that it is a Leave mitzugeben wishes. These detections exist for
itself alone, without fictitious character, such as necklaces.

       In second place comes the conclusion of a resultant.

* * * * *

CHAPTER XVII (p. 34)

[Sidenote: c. 17, 1st Rules for the tragic poet.]

1.

We must as far as the design of the fables and their linguistic development, the processes as
possible put in mind, for only when the poet in the clearest light looks as if he were present
at the events themselves, he should find something suitable and also hardly ignore the contradictions. Evidence
of this is what the Karkinos once criticized for was made. A person [Amphiaraos?] Got out of
the temple <....> This escaped the poet, of the situation envisioned not, and he fell through
at the performance, because that breach the indignation of the audience
excited.

2. The second is the poet, as far as any terms, expressions and gestures of his characters
miterproben itself (with graphic), for the most convincing are those who by virtue of their own
temperament could put in (the question) moods, and the truth most loyal will vigorously represent
the self-excited exciting and the angry his anger on others transferred. Therefore, the poetry
is rather a matter for a gifted as a man possessed, because those are plentiful malleable, but this
out of hand.

3. The poet is also the legend material comprising the (1455b), both the already invented as those
which he invented himself, first to create a general outline, then episodes interlace, ie expand.
I mean, the General can, for example in the Iphigeneia Sun illustrate: A certain maiden was placed
on the altar of sacrifice and the sacrificer to unknown means removed,
she was in another country [31] was added, where it was the custom
(p. to sacrifice 35) the foreign (country) Goddess [32]. You received
this priesthood. [33] After some Time it happened that her brother
[34] arrived - the fact that the God [35] from a particular Basically
had ordered him to come and for what purpose, [36] is outside the
dramatic action. Enough, he came, was arrested and sacrificed just
about to be, he knew his sister, as Euripides [37] was that it was
like Polyidos detection (The brother) brought about by it in ways
likely can do the statement that not only his sister, but now he will
be offered, and it was his Rescue.  He had also worked at fractions and decimals, and tried a little
algebra; but he was, and had been as a boy, a poor hand at figures.  Was it necessary for him
when on duty, always to remain in that channel of damp air, and could he never rise into the
sunshine from between those high stone walls?  Why, that depended upon times and circumstances.
Under some conditions there would be less upon the Line than under others, and the same held
good as to certain hours of the day and night. In bright weather, he did choose occasions for
getting a little above these lower shadows; but, being at all times liable to be called by
his electric bell, and at such times listening for it with redoubled anxiety, the relief was
less than I would suppose.

He took me into his box, where there was a fire, a desk for an official book in which he had
to make certain entries, a telegraphic instrument with its dial face and needles, and the little
bell of which he had spoken.  On my trusting that he would excuse the remark that he had been
well educated, and (I hoped I might say without offence), perhaps educated above that station,
he observed that instances of slight incongruity in such-wise would rarely be found wanting
among large bodies of men; that he had heard it was so in workhouses, in the police force,
even in that last desperate resource, the army; and that he knew it was so, more or less, in
any great railway staff.  He had been, when young (if I could believe it, sitting in that hut;
he scarcely could), a student of natural philosophy, and had attended lectures; but he had
run wild, misused his opportunities, gone down, and never risen again.  He had no complaint
to offer about that.  He had made his bed, and he lay upon it.  It was far too late to make
another.

All that I have here condensed, he said in a quiet manner, with his grave dark regards divided
between me and the fire.  He threw in the word “Sir,” from time to time, and especially when
he referred to his youth: as though to request me to understand that he claimed to be nothing
but what I found him.  He was several times interrupted by the little bell, and had to read
off messages, and send replies.  Once, he had to stand without the door, and display a flag
as a train passed, and make some verbal communication to the driver.  In the discharge of his
duties I observed him to be remarkably exact and vigilant, breaking off his discourse at a
syllable, and remaining silent until what he had to do was done.

In a word, I should have set this man down as one of the safest of men to be employed in that
capacity, but for the circumstance that while he was speaking to me he twice broke off with
a fallen colour, turned his face towards the little bell when it did NOT ring, opened the door
of the hut (which was kept shut to exclude the unhealthy damp), and looked out towards the
red light near the mouth of the tunnel.  On both of those occasions, he came back to the fire
with the inexplicable air upon him which I had remarked, without being able to define, when
we were so far asunder.

Said I when I rose to leave him: “You almost make me think that I have met with a contented man.”

(I am afraid I must acknowledge that I said it to lead him on).

“I believe I used to be so,” he rejoined, in the low voice in which he had first spoken; “but
I am troubled, sir, I am troubled.”

He would have recalled the words if he could.  He had said them, however, and I took them up
quickly.

“With what?  What is your trouble?”

“It is very difficult to impart, sir.  It is very, very, difficult to speak of.  If ever you
make me another visit, I will try to tell you.”

“But I expressly intend to make you another visit.  Say, when shall it be?”

“I go off early in the morning, and I shall be on again at ten to-morrow night, sir.”

“I will come at eleven.”

He thanked me, and went out at the door with me.  “I’ll show my white light, sir,” he said,
in his peculiar low voice, “till you have found the way up.  When you have found it, don’t
call out!  And when you are at the top, don’t call out!”

His manner seemed to make the place strike colder to me, but I said no more than “Very well.”

“And when you come down to-morrow night, don’t call out!  Let me ask you a parting question.
What made you cry ‘Halloa!  Below there!’ to-night?”

“Heaven knows,” said I.  “I cried something to that effect—”

“Not to that effect, sir.  Those were the very words.  I know them well.”

“Admit those were the very words.  I said them, no doubt, because I saw you below.”

“For no other reason?”

“What other reason could I possibly have!”

“You had no feeling that they were conveyed to you in any supernatural way?”

“No.”

He wished me good night, and held up his light.  I walked by the side of the down Line of rails
(with a very disagreeable sensation of a train coming behind me), until I found the path. 
It was easier to mount than to descend, and I got back to my inn without any adventure.

Punctual to my appointment, I placed my foot on the first notch of the zig-zag next night,
as the distant clocks were striking eleven.  He was waiting for me at the bottom, with his
white light on.  “I have not called out,” I said, when we came close together; “may I speak
now?”  “By all means, sir.”  “Good night then, and here’s my hand.”  “Good night, sir, and
here’s mine.”  With that, we walked side by side to his box, entered it, closed the door, and
sat down by the fire.

“I have made up my mind, sir,” he began, bending forward as soon as we were seated, and speaking
in a tone but a little above a whisper, “that you shall not have to ask me twice what troubles
me.  I took you for some one else yesterday evening.  That troubles me.”

“That mistake?”

“No.  That some one else.”

“Who is it?”

“I don’t know.”

“Like me?”

“I don’t know.  I never saw the face.  The left arm is across the face, and the right arm is
waved.  Violently waved.  This way.”

I followed his action with my eyes, and it was the action of an arm gesticulating with the
utmost passion and vehemence: “For God’s sake clear the way!”

“One moonlight night,” said the man, “I was sitting here, when I heard a voice cry ‘Halloa!
Below there!’ I started up, looked from that door, and saw this Some one else standing by the
red light near the tunnel, waving as I just now showed you.  The voice seemed hoarse with shouting,
and it cried, ‘Look out!  Look out!’ And then again ‘Halloa!  Below there!  Look out!’ I caught
up my lamp, turned it on red, and ran towards the figure, calling, ‘What’s wrong?  What has
happened?  Where?’  It stood just outside the blackness of the tunnel.  I advanced so close
upon it that I wondered at its keeping the sleeve across its eyes.  I ran right up at it, and
had my hand stretched out to pull the sleeve away, when it was gone.”

“Into the tunnel,” said I.

“No.  I ran on, into the tunnel, five hundred yards.  I stopped and held my lamp above my head,
and saw the figures of the measured distance, and saw the wet stains stealing down the walls
and trickling through the arch.  I ran out again, faster than I had run in (for I had a mortal
abhorrence of the place upon me), and I looked all round the red light with my own red light,
and I went up the iron ladder to the gallery atop of it, and I came down again, and ran back
here.  I telegraphed both ways: ‘An alarm has been given.  Is anything wrong?’  The answer
came back, both ways: ‘All well.’”

Resisting the slow touch of a frozen finger tracing out my spine, I showed him how that this
figure must be a deception of his sense of sight, and how that figures, originating in disease
of the delicate nerves that minister to the functions of the eye, were known to have often
troubled patients, some of whom had become conscious of the nature of their affliction, and
had even proved it by experiments upon themselves.  “As to an imaginary cry,” said I, “do but
listen for a moment to the wind in this unnatural valley while we speak so low, and to the
wild harp it makes of the telegraph wires!”

That was all very well, he returned, after we had sat listening for a while, and he ought to
know something of the wind and the wires, he who so often passed long winter nights there,
alone and watching.  But he would beg to remark that he had not finished.

I asked his pardon, and he slowly added these words, touching my arm:

“Within six hours after the Appearance, the memorable accident on this Line happened, and within
ten hours the dead and wounded were brought along through the tunnel over the spot where the
figure had stood.”

A disagreeable shudder crept over me, but I did my best against it.  It was not to be denied,
I rejoined, that this was a remarkable coincidence, calculated deeply to impress his mind.
But, it was unquestionable that remarkable coincidences did continually occur, and they must
be taken into account in dealing with such a subject.  Though to be sure I must admit, I added
(for I thought I saw that he was going to bring the objection to bear upon me), men of common
sense did not allow much for coincidences in making the ordinary calculations of life.

He again begged to remark that he had not finished.

I again begged his pardon for being betrayed into interruptions.

“This,” he said, again laying his hand upon my arm, and glancing over his shoulder with hollow
eyes, “was just a year ago.  Six or seven months passed, and I had recovered from the surprise
and shock, when one morning, as the day was breaking, I, standing at that door, looked towards
the red light, and saw the spectre again.”  He stopped, with a fixed look at me.

“Did it cry out?”

“No.  It was silent.”

“Did it wave its arm?”

“No.  It leaned against the shaft of the light, with both hands before the face.  Like this.”

Once more, I followed his action with my eyes.  It was an action of mourning.  I have seen
such an attitude in stone figures on tombs.

“Did you go up to it?”

“I came in and sat down, partly to collect my thoughts, partly because it had turned me faint.
When I went to the door again, daylight was above me, and the ghost was gone.”

“But nothing followed?  Nothing came of this?”

He touched me on the arm with his forefinger twice or thrice, giving a ghastly nod each time:

“That very day, as a train came out of the tunnel, I noticed, at a carriage window on my side,
what looked like a confusion of hands and heads, and something waved.  I saw it, just in time
to signal the driver, Stop!  He shut off, and put his brake on, but the train drifted past
here a hundred and fifty yards or more.  I ran after it, and, as I went along, heard terrible
screams and cries.  A beautiful young lady had died instantaneously in one of the compartments,
and was brought in here, and laid down on this floor between us.”

Involuntarily, I pushed my chair back, as I looked from the boards at which he pointed, to himself.

“True, sir.  True.  Precisely as it happened, so I tell it you.”

I could think of nothing to say, to any purpose, and my mouth was very dry.  The wind and the
wires took up the story with a long lamenting wail.

He resumed.  “Now, sir, mark this, and judge how my mind is troubled. The spectre came back,
a week ago.  Ever since, it has been there, now and again, by fits and starts.”

“At the light?”

“At the Danger-light.”

“What does it seem to do?”

He repeated, if possible with increased passion and vehemence, that former gesticulation of
“For God’s sake clear the way!”

Then, he went on.  “I have no peace or rest for it.  It calls to me, for many minutes together,
in an agonised manner, ‘Below there!  Look out! Look out!’  It stands waving to me.  It rings
my little bell—”

I caught at that.  “Did it ring your bell yesterday evening when I was here, and you went to
the door?”

“Twice.”

“Why, see,” said I, “how your imagination misleads you. The events often include Schürzung on the
outside and even some that fall within the guidelines, the rest is the Solution. In Schürzung
I understand but the one link that to the person from the beginning to Part ranges, which indicates
the border, from which a reversal in fortune or misfortune takes place, the one solution under
the turnaround to the end. Shall include in the Lynkeus Theodectes the Schürzung the history, the removal
of the child and what immediately follows, however, the solution extends from the accusation
of murder to the end.

2. There are four kinds of tragedy and just as many (?) Part of the tragedy had been called,
namely, the interlaced, which amounts to quite peripeteia or recognition, and also a painful
indeed containing (pathetic), such as Ajax - and (p. 37) (1456a) Ixiondramen, and based on character
drawing (ethical), as the Phthiotinnen and Peleus, the fourth, easily appears in connection
with the latter two, such as the Phorkiden, of Prometheus and the pieces that play in Hades.
You should now especially after that costumes, all of these types of treatment to appropriate,
if not impossible, but the most important and most, especially as it is now just the poet of
a spiteful criticism subjected to maintain. Since it is for each part (a tragedy) excellent
poet There, one requires that the individual is the virtuosity (specialty) of each beat.

3. As of right, must a completely different tragedy (in relation to another) address as the
same, even if they agree in substance not to each other. This case occurs when Schürzung and solution
are the same. In general many of the nodes t excellent, solve it
but ill. However, it is necessary that both is consistent.

[Sidenote: c. 18, 4th Rules for the Tragödiendiohter.]

4. The poet must also, as noted repeatedly, to remember his tragedy to shape not epic. In epic, but I
understand a lot of material quality content, as if for example, someone wanted to dramatize the
whole fabric of the Iliad. There (in epic) are being offered in consequence of its length, the
parts of their reasonable extent, in the drama but is this (process) have an expectation of very
opposite effect.

Evidence of this is that those who which dramatized the destruction of Ilium as a whole and
not individual parts, such as Euripides, or bad, the legend of Niobe, and not, as Aeschylus,
either fell or competition sections, but has even Agathon on this point (p. 38) but a failure reported.

5.
In vicissitudes and simple actions, the poets reach admirably the effect they seek. Because
this is a tragic human and therefore gives Participation. This happens when a smart but poor
man, like Sisyphus betrayed will and manly, but unjust character
<wie ...> subject.

After all, this is probably in the sense as understood Agathon, "it is likely that much Improbable
happened. "

6. Furthermore, the poet must understand the choir as one of the actor, he is an (organic) Member
of the whole and participate in the dramatic action, not as in Euripides, but, as in Sophocles.
In many (writers), the choral songs do not have much more to do with that particular fable
than with any other tragedy.

       Therefore, they can (So) Embolima (deposits) to sing, a custom that
Agathon first mustered.

And yet what a difference is to sing such interludes or a speech
from a Add another piece to a [or even a whole Episodion]?

* * * * *

CHAPTER XIX

1. On the other species (the tragedy) has now spoken, it still remains on the persuade linguistic
expression and thought. This, as far as the idea may, in the books the rhetoric has its place,
more suited to the investigation area is proper. In the field of education is the idea that the
(p. 39) means (1456b) Speech accomplished must be to the functions of the evidence and refutation, and
the excitement of moods belongs, such as compassion or fear or anger or whatever else it is such,
also the Increase and decrease of things. It stands to but that one also in the actions must apply
the same factors when they are either pathetic or terrible or unwilling
to make large or likely.

One only difference is that these Acts without (language) instruction
must manifest itself, while mediated by the speech be done by the
speaker itself and must be a result of the speech, for which stocks
for otherwise the role of the speaker, if the thought even without
the mediation of the speech phenomenon would occur in?

[Sidenote: c. 19, 2nd Educational thought. The linguistic expression.]

2. From now, what is in the area of ​​linguistic expression, are part of the Investigation, the
record types, the knowledge of the way, is more a matter of elocution, and of that, of the theory
of art masters, such as what is desired or command and what story or Threat or question or answer,
and whatever else it is such.

       From their knowledge or ignorance can not blame the poetry that would
be worthy of respect, grow up.

For who is an error will want to see what Protagoras alleges that
(Homer), for example, in the opinion issue a request orders by saying:
Sing, O goddess, the anger [44], because, as claimed he ask someone
to do something or not to do is an order.

* * * * *

CHAPTER XX

[Sidenote: c. 20, 1 The linguistic expression.]

1. The linguistic expression as a whole (p. 40) contains the following: the initials the syllable,
the conjunction, the article that the naming word (noun), the verb (verb), the Flexion (flexion)
and the sentence (word structure). The letter is an indecomposable sound, but not in all cases
but only if it naturally from a composite structure according to can develop, because even animals
have indecomposable sounds, of which I have no single refer to as
a composite or a letter.

The parts of this sound are the Vowels (vowel), the failure volume (mute) and the semi-vowel
(Liquids).

A vocal has an audible without establishment (the tongue) formed on
the lips or teeth Sound that has a semi-vowel with establishment (the
tongue) is formed, the audible sound, such as R and S, which is not
louder but also formed with establishment (the tongue), but for are
no composite audible sound, but is audible only in connection with
those According to some, a composite structure have, such as G and
D.

According to these structures are different now turn to the mouth
of and mouth sites through the rough and easy breath (spiritus asper
and lenis), the length and brevity (quantity) finally, by pitch and
depth, and the median.

The discussion about these things in detail however, belongs to the area metric investigations.

2.
The syllable is a composite, meaningless sound, formed from a mutation <oder Liquid> and a vowel,
for G + R A is not a syllable, but with A, as in GRA.

However, the (p. 41) also discuss these differences is for the metric.

3.

Conjunction is a compound, meaningless (1457a) According to structure, such as men (= though),
ētoi (= truth), de " (= But), or a sound structure that is intended to According to several
structures of a sound (?) a single significant produce sound (?).

4.

Article is a composite, meaningless sound structure, which start or end or to indicate the structure
of a sentence, such as amphi (= order), Peri (= above), etc., or [45] but a composite meaningless
sound structure, which a single meaningful and several sounds incurred According neither prevented
nor produces and naturally make both the top and in the middle (of
the sentence) can be.

5. Noun is a composite significant sound structure without time-determination of the no part
in and of itself means anything, because in compound words we use their parts are not as significant
in and of itself, as in Theodore (= God's gift) doros has no (independent)
meaning.

[Sidenote: c. 20, 6 The linguistic expression.]

6. Verb is a composite significant sound structures with timing information, from which no
Part has substantive as well as in and of itself important. So designated person or do not know the when,
on the other hand he is or he is gone ignored or go it is called the present (p. 42) past and future.

7.
Flexion (flexion) refers to the substantive or the verb and refers to some Whose the (= genitive)
or Who (= dative) and others of the species, some of the singular
or plural, as the person or people, some of the last expressions,
such as question and command, for he went? or go! is an inflection
of the verb after these procedures.

8. The word structure (record) is a composite significant sound structure, of which some Parts in
and of itself mean something, because not every word structure consists
of verbs and nouns, such as the definition of man [46], but it can
also result in a compound sentence without verbs, but it is nevertheless
always contain a significant part of some, such as walking, Cleon,
the son of Cleon.

       

9. A unit may also be the word structure in two ways, namely either that it denotes (to be) a
unit or that this from the combination of several formed. For example, the Iliad, a unit of
such a compound sentence is the man But the fact that he calls (off) a unit.

* * * * *

CHAPTER XXI

1. Of the types of the noun some are simple, the other two parts. Under a I understand such a simple,
consisting of not designating (p. 43) parts, such as eg Earth (GE),
under this one that one part of an identifier and a significant part
is not just that within the (two-part) of the significant substantive
and not important part, not be considered, on the other hand is characteristic
only of Composed components.

There are of course also a triple and quadruple compound, even be much higher, as many developments
of the Massiliots, eg Hermokaikoxanthos. (1457b)

2. Each word is either a common or a gloss or a metaphor or an ornamental name or a newly formed
or a stretched or shortened or converted.

3. Under a commonly used word, I understand what everyone used, under a The gloss, use what stranger,
so that apparently one and the same word, both a gloss as can be in general use, but certainly
not the same person.

Thus Sígynon (= Spear) at the Cyprians in general use, with us but a gloss, and vice versa
dory (= spear) with us in common use, on the other hand Cyprians a gloss.

[Sidenote: c. 21, 4th The linguistic Ausdruok.]

4. A metaphor is that it is a word, an (initially) do not assume Importance attaches, either (1)
(2) of the genus to species or from species to species or (3) of the type on a (different) type
or, finally, (4) on the basis of a proportion.

As an example of the genus to the type I call "Here stands my ship" [47], for "before Moored "means"
standing "of a particular object (p. 44)

(2) From the nature of the genre: "Yes, the ten thousand glorious deeds accomplished, Odysseus'
[48]. This expression "ten thousand" he needs (the poet), namely, instead of "many."

(3) The type of the type such as "The ore will exhaust the soul" and "cutting off (of five wells)
with the sturdy bronze jug, [49] because there called the "Wegschöpfen"
a "cutting", while here the "cutting" a "Wegschöpfen", but both are
(special) Designations for some "take away".

(4) A proportion I suppose if the second (B) for the first (A) behaves just as the fourth (D)
for the third (C). Then, instead of the second one (B) the fourth (D) or instead of the fourth
(D) to the second (B) call. Sometimes they also added that, at its Place is called something
to the with him in a certain ratio standing add (+ A or + C).

I mean, for example, the drinking cup (B) is related to Dionysus (A) just as the shield (D) Ares
(C). It is therefore the hydration shell (B) the shield of Dionysus (D + A) and the Plate (D) the
goblet of Ares [50] (B + C) can call. Or, what old age (D) to life (C), which is the evening
(B) at the current (A).

It is therefore the evening (B) as the old age of the day (D + A)
or [like Empedocles] old age (D) the evening of life (B + C) or the
loss of life can identify [51].

Some metaphors, there is no name for (p. 45) the proportional element,
but will be able to express themselves in a similar manner.

For example, is called "scatter seeds" to sow "" however, there is
"flame spread" on the part of the sun but not your own name this (spreading
of the flame) (B) is to the Sun (A) as well as the "sowing"

(D) to the "Seed <Ausstreuenden> (C), and therefore says (the poet): sowing the god-created flame
(D + A) [52].

Now you can also use this type of metaphor in any other manner by an object alien to him and thereby
also highlighted some of its peculiar Properties denies, for example,
if the shield while a drinking cup, but not the Ares, but "weinlos"
would call.

5. <The Attributes of ...>

6. A newly formed word is that no one at all (previously) used by the poet himself (The vocabulary)
adds, because it seems a few words of this kind to give, instead, such as "Horns" érnyges (-
bars) [53] and instead of "priests" Arets (= prayer) [54].

[Sidenote: c. 21, 7 The linguistic expression.]

7. The extended and shortened word concerning (1458a) as constructed by the application a long
vowel as the word belongs or by the addition of a syllable, the latter, if he is deprived of
something.

       A long word is as polēos (- city '), poleōs and <Pēlēos next>
Pēleos and Pělēiádeō <neben Pēleidou> , A shortened (p. 46) as critical
(Cherith = "Barley") and DO (= domain "House") and

One is two views
(= intuition, ops for opsis) [55].

8. Transformed at last is a word, if we retain the one part, another is adds, such as under the
"right" breast [56], instead of the right (dexion dexíteron =).

9. Nouns even some are male, others female, and others in between (= Mainly). Male are the ones who
go out on N and E and S and those with the latter are compounded,
of which there are two, Xi (= Ksi) and Psi, female, on the vowels,
the always long, namely Eta and Omega (E & O), and A, among the vowels,
the extended can proceed.

So it happens that the number of entries for the male and females is the same, as Xi and Psi
are only assembled. At a mute volume (Muta) ends not substantive, yet always a short vowel.
To "i" only three, namely meli (honey), kommi (rubber), peperi (= tree), (= Lance) to y ("ü")
five, namely, Dory, POY (= herd), napy (= mustard), gony (= knee), Asty (city). The actual ending
in the same Letters as well as to N and S, such as dendrons (= tree)
on N and cooperative (= sex) on p.

* * * * *

CHAPTER XXII

1.

The quality of verbal expression might be the fact that he clearly and not flat (trivial) (P.
47).

Most clearly it is now, of course, if he only commonly used words served, which brings with it
but flatness. An example is the seal of the Cleophon and the Sthenelus. Exalted and the ordinary
(everyday he is wiping the Application of strange words. In a strange word I understand the
commentary, metaphor, the extension and everything that moves away
from the everyday.

2. but wanted someone in loud words such dense, then is either a mystery or gibberish (barbarism)
result and that if metaphors in a mystery, but if in glosses, gibberish. For it is in the nature
of the puzzle, to say made real but impossible to connect. By linking other words one can not achieve
this, through a combination of metaphors, but this is possible, such
as

I saw a fire with the ore Solder the other [57] and the like.
arises from glosses (Said), the barbarism <z.B. ....> .

One must therefore these forms, namely, the gloss, the metaphor, the decorative name and the
other aforementioned species in a certain mixture used.

It will be something out of the ordinary and not create flat, the
general will, however, the Common give (required) clarity.

[Sidenote: c. 22, 3 The linguistic expression.]

3. But by no means the lowest part for clarity (1458b) of the linguistic expression, without fall
to about the everyday, contributing extensions, reductions and transformations.

Since they are different from fact (p. 48), the general Common causes
of the ordinary Dissenting, that nothing brings everyday existence,
by the clash with the general Common, however, the resulting clarity.

4. Therefore, those whiners in the wrong, which is a kind of speech a sharp Criticism and take the poet
(Homer) deride as Euclid of Older done by He claimed that it was too tight even slightly, if anyone
would be entitled to (vowels) to Discretion extend or shorten, and that (process) in the expression
itself ridiculed. [58]

Ĕ̅pichár | s [59] I | don Mara | thónade badi | Zonta (= Aepicharen
I saw Gene walking marathon)

Ouk in | g 'eram | os ton | keínon |
Elle | Boron [60] (= The hardly broke out in love for that Hellebore.)

Admittedly
a somewhat conspicuous process of this kind is ridiculous.

But
    a moderate Application is actually
      a common (pre-condition)
for
all parts (of the linguistic expression).

Because someone wanted to taste, that is intentionally comic effect
in the computing, metaphors, Apply glosses and the other species,
he would reach the same (as in those strains).

    
[Sidenote: c. 22, 5 The linguistic expression.]

5.

What a difference a proper use (the forms) makes you dislike the
epic be illustrated by placing the general (p. 49) used words in the
verse and even if someone in the commentary, metaphor and other species
commonly used Exchanging words for it, he would see that our assertion
is true.

Thus, for example, Euripides same iambic (trimeter) as Aeschylus
and sealed only by the insertion of a single Word, namely a gloss
instead of the commonly used standard definition, causes that his
verse is now excellent, but it usually appears that of Aeschylus.

Aeschylus
    wrote poetry namely in the Philoctetes:

/ * The cancer, which my feet Eats meat.

* / That (Euripides) set in place of "eats" the term "feasts."

    
And also (usually it would be) if anyone in the verse

/ * Now de
m'eón oligos te kai kai outidanós Aeikens [61] * /

(But it's so a
dwarf, a nichtsnutz'ges, ugly little man)

use the commonly used words
were:

/ * De te kai nyn m'eón microscopic asthenikós kai aeidés *
/

(But it's so small and frail ugly little man)

and instead of just

/
* díphron t'aikélion katathéis oily te trápezan [62] * /

(Setting
down the chair and the tiny dining table armsel'gen)

/ * díphron
mochtherón katatheís Micran te trápezan (p. 50) * /

(Putting down
the bad and the silly chair dining table)

or, finally, instead of

/
* Eion boóōsin [63] (it roared to shore) Eion krázousin (it shouted
the bank).

* /

    6. So also Ariphrades ridiculed the tragedians, because
they use expressions that are no one makes use of the vernacular,
eg domátōn apo (away from the houses [64], [not apó domátōn] (away
from the houses) and Seth [65] (= yours, instead of su), ego de nin
(= I but him instead of auton [66]), and peri Achilleos [67] (Achilles
because of) [not peri Achilleos] (because Achilles) and what the like
(1459a) longer.

It is precisely because all such expressions not fall under the general
use, they provide the linguistic expression of the Character of the
non-ordinary.

It did, however, that (scoffers) is not.

    
    7. Is it important to have each of the mentioned
types of expressions to use in an appropriate manner, both compounds
as the glosses, it is still by far the metaphorical expression of
most important, as this alone can not learn from one another, but
this is a way a sign of genius.

For invent metaphors is, a good nose (look sharp) for the (p. 51) Similar (in dissimilarity)
have.

8. Of the speech itself is now the most suitable compounds for the dithyrambs, the glosses for
the heroic poems, the metaphors for iambic trimeter (the tragedy). In heroic poetry all the
above categories, while in iambic trimeter other hand, since, as far as possible, mimic the
conversational tone, to add only those types of words, that someone
operate even in the prosaic speech, would be the type but the commonly
used the metaphor and the decorative label.



“I believe engine-drivers, as a body, are the healthiest fellows alive; but they don’t live
long.  The cause of that, I believe to be the cold food, and the shaking.  By the cold food,
I mean that a engine-driver never gets his meals comfortable.  He’s never at home to his dinner.
When he starts away the first thing in the morning, he takes a bit of cold meat and a piece
of bread with him for his dinner; and generally he has to eat it in the shed, for he mustn’t
leave his engine.  You can understand how the jolting and shaking knocks a man up, after a
bit.  The insurance companies won’t take us at ordinary rates.  We’re obliged to be Foresters,
or Old Friends, or that sort of thing, where they ain’t so particular.  The wages of a engine-driver
average about eight shillings a day, but if he’s a good schemer with his coals—yes, I mean
if he economises his coals—he’s allowed so much more.  Some will make from five to ten shillings
a week that way.  I don’t complain of the wages particular; but it’s hard lines for such as
us, to have to pay income-tax.  The company gives an account of all our wages, and we have
to pay.  It’s a shame.

“Our domestic life—our life at home, you mean?  Well, as to that, we don’t see much of our
families.  I leave home at half-past seven in the morning, and don’t get back again until half-past
nine, or maybe later. The children are not up when I leave, and they’ve gone to bed again before
I come home.  This is about my day:—Leave London at 8.45; drive for four hours and a half;
cold snack on the engine step; see to engine; drive back again; clean engine; report myself;
and home.  Twelve hours’ hard and anxious work, and no comfortable victuals.  Yes, our wives
are anxious about us; for we never know when we go out, if we’ll ever come back again.  We
ought to go home the minute we leave the station, and report ourselves to those that are thinking
on us and depending on us; but I’m afraid we don’t always.  Perhaps we go first to the public-house,
and perhaps you would, too, if you were in charge of a engine all day long.  But the wives
have a way of their own, of finding out if we’re all right.  They inquire among each other.
‘Have you seen my Jim?’ one says. ‘No,’ says another, ‘but Jack see him coming out of the station
half an hour ago.’  Then she knows that her Jim’s all right, and knows where to find him if
she wants him.  It’s a sad thing when any of us have to carry bad news to a mate’s wife.  None
of us likes that job.  I remember when Jack Davidge was killed, none of us could face his poor
missus with the news.  She had seven children, poor thing, and two of ’em, the youngest, was
down with the fever.  We got old Mrs. Berridge—Tom Berridge’s mother—to break it to her.  But
she knew summat was the matter, the minute the old woman went in, and, afore she spoke a word,
fell down like as if she was dead.  She lay all night like that, and never heard from mortal
lips until next morning that her Jack was killed.  But she knew it in her heart.  It’s a pitch
and toss kind of a life ours!

“And yet I never was nervous on a engine but once.  I never think of my own life.  You go in
for staking that, when you begin, and you get used to the risk.  I never think of the passengers
either.  The thoughts of a engine-driver never go behind his engine.  If he keeps his engine
all right, the coaches behind will be all right, as far as the driver is concerned.  But once
I did think of the passengers.  My little boy, Bill, was among them that morning.  He was a
poor little cripple fellow that we all loved more nor the others, because he was a cripple,
and so quiet, and wise-like.  He was going down to his aunt in the country, who was to take
care of him for a while.  We thought the country air would do him good.  I did think there
were lives behind me that morning; at least, I thought hard of one little life that was in
my hands.  There were twenty coaches on; my little Bill seemed to me to be in every one of
’em. My hand trembled as I turned on the steam.  I felt my heart thumping as we drew close
to the pointsman’s box; as we neared the Junction, I was all in a cold sweat.  At the end of
the first fifty miles I was nearly eleven minutes behind time.  ‘What’s the matter with you
this morning?’ my stoker said.  ‘Did you have a drop too much last night?’  ‘Don’t speak to
me, Fred,’ I said, ‘till we get to Peterborough; and keep a sharp look-out, there’s a good
fellow.’  I never was so thankful in my life as when I shut off steam to enter the station
at Peterborough.  Little Bill’s aunt was waiting for him, and I saw her lift him out of the
carriage.  I called out to her to bring him to me, and I took him upon the engine and kissed
him—ah, twenty times I should think—making him in such a mess with grease and coal-dust as
you never saw.

“I was all right for the rest of the journey.  And I do believe, sir, the passengers were safer
after little Bill was gone.  It would never do, you see, for engine-drivers to know too much,
or to feel too much.”

NO. 3 BRANCH LINE THE COMPENSATION HOUSE

“There’s not a looking-glass in all the house, sir.  It’s some peculiar fancy of my master’s.
There isn’t one in any single room in the house.”

It was a dark and gloomy-looking building, and had been purchased by this Company for an enlargement
of their Goods Station.  The value of the house had been referred to what was popularly called
“a compensation jury,” and the house was called, in consequence, The Compensation House. It
had become the Company’s property; but its tenant still remained in possession, pending the
commencement of active building operations.  My attention was originally drawn to this house
because it stood directly in front of a collection of huge pieces of timber which lay near
this part of the Line, and on which I sometimes sat for half an hour at a time, when I was
tired by my wanderings about Mugby Junction.

It was square, cold, grey-looking, built of rough-hewn stone, and roofed with thin slabs of
the same material.  Its windows were few in number, and very small for the size of the building.
In the great blank, grey broad-side, there were only four windows.  The entrance-door was in
the middle of the house; there was a window on either side of it, and there were two more in
the single story above.  The blinds were all closely drawn, and, when the door was shut, the
dreary building gave no sign of life or occupation.

But the door was not always shut.  Sometimes it was opened from within, with a great jingling
of bolts and door-chains, and then a man would come forward and stand upon the door-step, snuffing
the air as one might do who was ordinarily kept on rather a small allowance of that element.
He was stout, thick-set, and perhaps fifty or sixty years old—a man whose hair was cut exceedingly
close, who wore a large bushy beard, and whose eye had a sociable twinkle in it which was prepossessing.
He was dressed, whenever I saw him, in a greenish-brown frock-coat made of some material which
was not cloth, wore a waistcoat and trousers of light colour, and had a frill to his shirt—an
ornament, by the way, which did not seem to go at all well with the beard, which was continually
in contact with it.  It was the custom of this worthy person, after standing for a short time
on the threshold inhaling the air, to come forward into the road, and, after glancing at one
of the upper windows in a half mechanical way, to cross over to the logs, and, leaning over
the fence which guarded the railway, to look up and down the Line (it passed before the house)
with the air of a man accomplishing a self-imposed task of which nothing was expected to come.
This done, he would cross the road again, and turning on the threshold to take a final sniff
of air, disappeared once more within the house, bolting and chaining the door again as if there
were no probability of its being reopened for at least a week.  Yet half an hour had not passed
before he was out in the road again, sniffing the air and looking up and down the Line as before.

It was not very long before I managed to scrape acquaintance with this restless personage.
I soon found out that my friend with the shirt-frill was the confidential servant, butler,
valet, factotum, what you will, of a sick gentleman, a Mr. Oswald Strange, who had recently
come to inhabit the house opposite, and concerning whose history my new acquaintance, whose
name I ascertained was Masey, seemed disposed to be somewhat communicative.  His master, it
appeared, had come down to this place, partly for the sake of reducing his establishment—not,
Mr. Masey was swift to inform me, on economical principles, but because the poor gentleman,
for particular reasons, wished to have few dependents about him—partly in order that he might
be near his old friend, Dr. Garden, who was established in the neighbourhood, and whose society
and advice were necessary to Mr. Strange’s life.  That life was, it appeared, held by this
suffering gentleman on a precarious tenure.  It was ebbing away fast with each passing hour.
The servant already spoke of his master in the past tense, describing him to me as a young
gentleman not more than five-and-thirty years of age, with a young face, as far as the features
and build of it went, but with an expression which had nothing of youth about it.  This was
the great peculiarity of the man.  At a distance he looked younger than he was by many years,
and strangers, at the time when he had been used to get about, always took him for a man of
seven or eight-and-twenty, but they changed their minds on getting nearer to him. Old Masey
had a way of his own of summing up the peculiarities of his master, repeating twenty times
over: “Sir, he was Strange by name, and Strange by nature, and Strange to look at into the
bargain.”

It was during my second or third interview with the old fellow that he uttered the words quoted
at the beginning of this plain narrative.

“Not such a thing as a looking-glass in all the house,” the old man said, standing beside my
piece of timber, and looking across reflectively at the house opposite.  “Not one.”

“In the sitting-rooms, I suppose you mean?”

“No, sir, I mean sitting-rooms and bedrooms both; there isn’t so much as a shaving-glass as
big as the palm of your hand anywhere.”

“But how is it?” I asked.  “Why are there no looking-glasses in any of the rooms?”

“Ah, sir!” replied Masey, “that’s what none of us can ever tell.  There is the mystery.  It’s
just a fancy on the part of my master.  He had some strange fancies, and this was one of them.
A pleasant gentleman he was to live with, as any servant could desire.  A liberal gentleman,
and one who gave but little trouble; always ready with a kind word, and a kind deed, too, for
the matter of that.  There was not a house in all the parish of St. George’s (in which we lived
before we came down here) where the servants had more holidays or a better table kept; but,
for all that, he had his queer ways and his fancies, as I may call them, and this was one of
them.  And the point he made of it, sir,” the old man went on; “the extent to which that regulation
was enforced, whenever a new servant was engaged; and the changes in the establishment it occasioned.
In hiring a new servant, the very first stipulation made, was that about the looking-glasses.
It was one of my duties to explain the thing, as far as it could be explained, before any servant
was taken into the house. ‘You’ll find it an easy place,’ I used to say, ‘with a liberal table,
good wages, and a deal of leisure; but there’s one thing you must make up your mind to; you
must do without looking-glasses while you’re here, for there isn’t one in the house, and, what’s
more, there never will be.’”

“But how did you know there never would be one?” I asked.

“Lor’ bless you, sir!  If you’d seen and heard all that I’d seen and heard, you could have
no doubt about it.  Why, only to take one instance:—I remember a particular day when my master
had occasion to go into the housekeeper’s room where the cook lived, to see about some alterations
that were making, and when a pretty scene took place.  The cook—she was a very ugly woman,
and awful vain—had left a little bit of looking-glass, about six inches square, upon the chimney-piece;
she had got it surreptious, and kept it always locked up; but she’d left it out, being called
away suddenly, while titivating her hair.  I had seen the glass, and was making for the chimney-piece
as fast as I could; but master came in front of it before I could get there, and it was all
over in a moment.  He gave one long piercing look into it, turned deadly pale, and seizing
the glass, dashed it into a hundred pieces on the floor, and then stamped upon the fragments
and ground them into powder with his feet.  He shut himself up for the rest of that day in
his own room, first ordering me to discharge the cook, then and there, at a moment’s notice.”

“What an extraordinary thing!” I said, pondering.

“Ah, sir,” continued the old man, “it was astonishing what trouble I had with those women-servants.
It was difficult to get any that would take the place at all under the circumstances.  ‘What
not so much as a mossul to do one’s ’air at?’ they would say, and they’d go off, in spite of
extra wages.  Then those who did consent to come, what lies they would tell, to be sure!  They
would protest that they didn’t want to look in the glass, that they never had been in the habit
of looking in the glass, and all the while that very wench would have her looking-glass of
some kind or another, hid away among her clothes up-stairs.  Sooner or later, she would bring
it out too, and leave it about somewhere or other (just like the cook), where it was as likely
as not that master might see it. And then—for girls like that have no consciences, sir—when
I had caught one of ’em at it, she’d turn round as bold as brass, ‘And how am I to know whether
my ’air’s parted straight?’ she’d say, just as if it hadn’t been considered in her wages that
that was the very thing which she never was to know while she lived in our house.  A vain lot,
sir, and the ugly ones always the vainest.  There was no end to their dodges.  They’d have
looking-glasses in the interiors of their workbox-lids, where it was next to impossible that
I could find ’em, or inside the covers of hymn-books, or cookery-books, or in their caddies.
I recollect one girl, a sly one she was, and marked with the small-pox terrible, who was always
reading her prayer-book at odd times.  Sometimes I used to think what a religious mind she’d
got, and at other times (depending on the mood I was in) I would conclude that it was the marriage-service
she was studying; but one day, when I got behind her to satisfy my doubts—lo and behold! it
was the old story: a bit of glass, without a frame, fastened into the kiver with the outside
edges of the sheets of postage-stamps.  Dodges! Why they’d keep their looking-glasses in the
scullery or the coal-cellar, or leave them in charge of the servants next door, or with the
milk-woman round the corner; but have ’em they would.  And I don’t mind confessing, sir,” said
the old man, bringing his long speech to an end, “that it was an inconveniency not to have
so much as a scrap to shave before.  I used to go to the barber’s at first, but I soon gave
that up, and took to wearing my beard as my master did; likewise to keeping my hair”—Mr. Masey
touched his head as he spoke—“so short, that it didn’t require any parting, before or behind.”

I sat for some time lost in amazement, and staring at my companion.  My curiosity was powerfully
stimulated, and the desire to learn more was very strong within me.

“Had your master any personal defect,” I inquired, “which might have made it distressing to
him to see his own image reflected?”

“By no means, sir,” said the old man.  “He was as handsome a gentleman as you would wish to
see: a little delicate-looking and careworn, perhaps, with a very pale face; but as free from
any deformity as you or I, sir. No, sir, no; it was nothing of that.”

“Then what was it?  What is it?” I asked, desperately.  “Is there no one who is, or has been,
in your master’s confidence?”

“Yes, sir,” said the old fellow, with his eyes turning to that window opposite.  “There is
one person who knows all my master’s secrets, and this secret among the rest.”

“And who is that?”

The old man turned round and looked at me fixedly.  “The doctor here,” he said.  “Dr. Garden.
My master’s very old friend.”

“I should like to speak with this gentleman,” I said, involuntarily.

“He is with my master now,” answered Masey.  “He will be coming out presently, and I think
I may say he will answer any question you may like to put to him.”  As the old man spoke, the
door of the house opened, and a middle-aged gentleman, who was tall and thin, but who lost
something of his height by a habit of stooping, appeared on the step.  Old Masey left me in
a moment.  He muttered something about taking the doctor’s directions, and hastened across
the road.  The tall gentleman spoke to him for a minute or two very seriously, probably about
the patient up-stairs, and it then seemed to me from their gestures that I myself was the subject
of some further conversation between them.  At all events, when old Masey retired into the
house, the doctor came across to where I was standing, and addressed me with a very agreeable
smile.

“John Masey tells me that you are interested in the case of my poor friend, sir.  I am now
going back to my house, and if you don’t mind the trouble of walking with me, I shall be happy
to enlighten you as far as I am able.”

I hastened to make my apologies and express my acknowledgments, and we set off together.  When
we had reached the doctor’s house and were seated in his study, I ventured to inquire after
the health of this poor gentleman.

“I am afraid there is no amendment, nor any prospect of amendment,” said the doctor.  “Old
Masey has told you something of his strange condition, has he not?”

“Yes, he has told me something,” I answered, “and he says you know all about it.”

Dr. Garden looked very grave.  “I don’t know all about it.  I only know what happens when he
comes into the presence of a looking-glass.  But as to the circumstances which have led to
his being haunted in the strangest fashion that I ever heard of, I know no more of them than
you do.”

“Haunted?” I repeated.  “And in the strangest fashion that you ever heard of?”

Dr. Garden smiled at my eagerness, seemed to be collecting his thoughts, and presently went on:

“I made the acquaintance of Mr. Oswald Strange in a curious way.  It was on board of an Italian
steamer, bound from Civita Vecchia to Marseilles. We had been travelling all night.  In the
morning I was shaving myself in the cabin, when suddenly this man came behind me, glanced for
a moment into the small mirror before which I was standing, and then, without a word of warning,
tore it from the nail, and dashed it to pieces at my feet.  His face was at first livid with
passion—it seemed to me rather the passion of fear than of anger—but it changed after a moment,
and he seemed ashamed of what he had done.  Well,” continued the doctor, relapsing for a moment
into a smile, “of course I was in a devil of a rage.  I was operating on my under-jaw, and
the start the thing gave me caused me to cut myself.  Besides, altogether it seemed an outrageous
and insolent thing, and I gave it to poor Strange in a style of language which I am sorry to
think of now, but which, I hope, was excusable at the time.  As to the offender himself, his
confusion and regret, now that his passion was at an end, disarmed me.  He sent for the steward,
and paid most liberally for the damage done to the steam-boat property, explaining to him,
and to some other passengers who were present in the cabin, that what had happened had been
accidental.  For me, however, he had another explanation.  Perhaps he felt that I must know
it to have been no accident—perhaps he really wished to confide in some one.  At all events,
he owned to me that what he had done was done under the influence of an uncontrollable impulse—a
seizure which took him, he said, at times—something like a fit.  He begged my pardon, and entreated
that I would endeavour to disassociate him personally from this action, of which he was heartily
ashamed.  Then he attempted a sickly joke, poor fellow, about his wearing a beard, and feeling
a little spiteful, in consequence, when he saw other people taking the trouble to shave; but
he said nothing about any infirmity or delusion, and shortly after left me.

“In my professional capacity I could not help taking some interest in Mr. Strange.  I did not
altogether lose sight of him after our sea-journey to Marseilles was over.  I found him a pleasant
companion up to a certain point; but I always felt that there was a reserve about him.  He
was uncommunicative about his past life, and especially would never allude to anything connected
with his travels or his residence in Italy, which, however, I could make out had been a long
one.  He spoke Italian well, and seemed familiar with the country, but disliked to talk about it.

“During the time we spent together there were seasons when he was so little himself, that I,
with a pretty large experience, was almost afraid to be with him.  His attacks were violent
and sudden in the last degree; and there was one most extraordinary feature connected with
them all:—some horrible association of ideas took possession of him whenever he found himself
before a looking-glass.  And after we had travelled together for a time, I dreaded the sight
of a mirror hanging harmlessly against a wall, or a toilet-glass standing on a dressing-table,
almost as much as he did.

“Poor Strange was not always affected in the same manner by a looking-glass.  Sometimes it
seemed to madden him with fury; at other times, it appeared to turn him to stone: remaining
motionless and speechless as if attacked by catalepsy.  One night—the worst things always happen
at night, and oftener than one would think on stormy nights—we arrived at a small town in the
central district of Auvergne: a place but little known, out of the line of railways, and to
which we had been drawn, partly by the antiquarian attractions which the place possessed, and
partly by the beauty of the scenery.  The weather had been rather against us.  The day had
been dull and murky, the heat stifling, and the sky had threatened mischief since the morning.
At sundown, these threats were fulfilled.  The thunderstorm, which had been all day coming
up—as it seemed to us, against the wind—burst over the place where we were lodged, with very
great violence.

“There are some practical-minded persons with strong constitutions, who deny roundly that their
fellow-creatures are, or can be, affected, in mind or body, by atmospheric influences.  I am
not a disciple of that school, simply because I cannot believe that those changes of weather,
which have so much effect upon animals, and even on inanimate objects, can fail to have some
influence on a piece of machinery so sensitive and intricate as the human frame.  I think,
then, that it was in part owing to the disturbed state of the atmosphere that, on this particular
evening I felt nervous and depressed.  When my new friend Strange and I parted for the night,
I felt as little disposed to go to rest as I ever did in my life.  The thunder was still lingering
among the mountains in the midst of which our inn was placed.  Sometimes it seemed nearer,
and at other times further off; but it never left off altogether, except for a few minutes
at a time.  I was quite unable to shake off a succession of painful ideas which persistently
besieged my mind.

“It is hardly necessary to add that I thought from time to time of my travelling-companion
in the next room.  His image was almost continually before me.  He had been dull and depressed
all the evening, and when we parted for the night there was a look in his eyes which I could
not get out of my memory.

“There was a door between our rooms, and the partition dividing them was not very solid; and
yet I had heard no sound since I parted from him which could indicate that he was there at
all, much less that he was awake and stirring.  I was in a mood, sir, which made this silence
terrible to me, and so many foolish fancies—as that he was lying there dead, or in a fit, or
what not—took possession of me, that at last I could bear it no longer.  I went to the door,
and, after listening, very attentively but quite in vain, for any sound, I at last knocked
pretty sharply.  There was no answer.  Feeling that longer suspense would be unendurable, I,
without more ceremony, turned the handle and went in.

“It was a great bare room, and so imperfectly lighted by a single candle that it was almost
impossible—except when the lightning flashed—to see into its great dark corners.  A small rickety
bedstead stood against one of the walls, shrouded by yellow cotton curtains, passed through
a great iron ring in the ceiling.  There was, for all other furniture, an old chest of drawers
which served also as a washing-stand, having a small basin and ewer and a single towel arranged
on the top of it.  There were, moreover, two ancient chairs and a dressing-table.  On this
last, stood a large old-fashioned looking-glass with a carved frame.

“I must have seen all these things, because I remember them so well now, but I do not know
how I could have seen them, for it seems to me that, from the moment of my entering that room,
the action of my senses and of the faculties of my mind was held fast by the ghastly figure
which stood motionless before the looking-glass in the middle of the empty room.

“How terrible it was!  The weak light of one candle standing on the table shone upon Strange’s
face, lighting it from below, and throwing (as I now remember) his shadow, vast and black,
upon the wall behind him and upon the ceiling overhead.  He was leaning rather forward, with
his hands upon the table supporting him, and gazing into the glass which stood before him with
a horrible fixity.  The sweat was on his white face; his rigid features and his pale lips showed
in that feeble light were horrible, more than words can tell, to look at.  He was so completely
stupefied and lost, that the noise I had made in knocking and in entering the room was unobserved
by him.  Not even when I called him loudly by name did he move or did his face change.

“What a vision of horror that was, in the great dark empty room, in a silence that was something
more than negative, that ghastly figure frozen into stone by some unexplained terror!  And
the silence and the stillness!  The very thunder had ceased now.  My heart stood still with
fear.  Then, moved by some instinctive feeling, under whose influence I acted mechanically,
I crept with slow steps nearer and nearer to the table, and at last, half expecting to see
some spectre even more horrible than this which I saw already, I looked over his shoulder into
the looking-glass.  I happened to touch his arm, though only in the lightest manner.  In that
one moment the spell which had held him—who knows how long?—enchained, seemed broken, and he
lived in this world again.  He turned round upon me, as suddenly as a tiger makes its spring,
and seized me by the arm.

“I have told you that even before I entered my friend’s room I had felt, all that night, depressed
and nervous.  The necessity for action at this time was, however, so obvious, and this man’s
agony made all that I had felt, appear so trifling, that much of my own discomfort seemed to
leave me.  I felt that I must be strong.

“The face before me almost unmanned me.  The eyes which looked into mine were so scared with
terror, the lips—if I may say so—looked so speechless. Another
time he still had the of the Risch at his side. As Catherine a violent movement made, I asked her
to stay in her seat, And paints on calmly. Since Begraebnisstage, where I bartered a strange greeting
with him, had the Baron Kurt on the court not shown, and now he came closer and beholdeth the
image and even spoke nice words, but my sake also why the lady is so muffled and not rather her
silky hair in free Curls on the neck have let boil, as it ausgedruecket Engellaendischer a poet
so well, "Backward throwing kisses to the wind light." Catherine, however, who had hitherto been silent,
to Mr Gerhardus' picture and said, "You know probably not, that was my father!"

What Junker Kurt then said is, I no longer remember, my person, but seemed it is not presently
completely or just like a machine to form an image on the canvas Malet. Of the latter, he
started over my head from side to this, and that too talk, but since Catherine was no longer
answer, he immediately took his leave, the lady Wishing a pleasant pastime.

This word any more, I looked quickly at his eyes like a knife point draw for me.

- We had now no more suffer Stoerniss, and moved with the seasons and the Work ahead. Even standing
on the forest coupling the rye out in silver-gray bloom, and bottom of the garden already set
off the roses, but we both - I like it down today to write it - at We would've liked itzund time leave
quietly; ventured to my messengers travel, even with a little word, neither she nor I to move.
As we talked, I knew little to say, except that I of my life abroad and told her how I always
thought of home; also that their penny Gueldner me in sickness once saved from trouble, as in their
children's hearts It then fuergesorget, and then later as I sought and distressed me, until I had recovered
treasure from the pawnshop me. Then she smiled happily, and thereby flourished from the dark
background of the image is always greener on the lovely face, it seemed to me, as it was hardly
my own work .-- Sometimes it seemed as I look a little hot from their Eyes, but I wanted to
put it then, it fled back shyly, and yet it flowed through the brush on the canvas in secret,
so that I myself hardly consciously sinnberueckend image emerged as never before and never after
such left out of my hand .-- And finally That's it but at the time and festgesetzet, the next
morning I was supposed to start my journey.

When Catherine eingehaendigt me the letter to her cousin, she was sitting across from me again.
It was now gespielet not with words, we talked seriously off together and worried, however, I Sit
here and there in the brush, sometimes my eyes to the silent society reflecting on the walls, that
I had in Catherine's presence meant little else.

Since, under the painting, my eye fell on that old woman portrait that hung at my side and was
directed from the White Schleiertuechern the piercing gray eyes on
me.

About Me shivering, I would have almost the chair verruecket.

But Catherine's sweet voice penetrated my ear: "You are almost pallid; which flew You have the
heart, John? "

I pointed the brush on the image. "You are the Kennet, Catherine? These eyes have all those days
was watching us. "

"The da - Before I was a child had a fear, and even on days I am often
as blind here gone through.

It is the wife of a former Gerhardus; before well over a hundred Years she has gehauset here.
"

"It is not like your beautiful mother," I replied, "This face has
probably been able to Please any one to say no. "

Kathy looked over at all serious to me.

"That's to say it," she said, "it is its only Childhood are cursed, the next morning but one
has the pale young lady from a garden pond drawn, which is afterwards
zugedaemmet.

Behind the hedges, the woods, it should have been. "

"I know, Catherine, today still grow it and horsetail rushes out of
the ground."

"You know as well, John, that our race is still to always show once
the house is threatening disaster?

You see them out here first slide on the windows, then disappear into the swamp garden. "

Ohnwillens turned my eyes back to the immovable of the image.

"And why," I asked, "she cursed her child?"

"Why?" - Catherine hesitated a moment and looked at me almost in dismay, with all their Charm.
"I think they wanted the cousin of her mother not to consort."

- "Was it giving us such a bad man?"

A look almost like a prayer flew over to me, and deep red roses covered her face. "I do not know,"
she said anxiously, and quiet, I hear that's hardly liked, put They added: "It means they've had
another love, that was not their profession."

I had dropped the brush, for she sat before me with downcast eyes, if not the little hand is softly
yet laid out her womb to her heart, she would be herself as a been lifeless image.

So it hold, I spoke at last: "I can not paint, yes; wollet your not me , See Catherine? "

And when they lifted the lashes of the brown eyes of stars, there was no secret; hot and open to
the jet went to my heart. "Catherine!" I had jumped. "If those Woman cursed you, too? "

She breathed deeply to "me, too, John," - As her head lay on my chest, and firmly enclosed We stood
before the image of the matriarch, the niederschauete cold and hostile to us.

But Catherine pulled me away quietly. "Let us not resist, my John!" said she .-- With The same
I heard a noise in the stairwell, and it was as if something with
three legs on laboriously worked up the stairs.

When Catherine and I therefore return to our Gesetzet place and I
had taken a brush and palette, the door opened, and Bas' Ursel, we
would have expected last came here in total coughs on her floor.

"I listen, "she said," He wants to Hamburg to attend to the frame, I have to me nigh But his
work Seen! "

It is well known Maennig that old young women in matters of love, the very finest sense have and
so the world can often bring young Bedrang and tribulation.

As Bas' Ursel on Catharine Image they have not seen so far, barely had a look threw, they shrugged
at all proud up with her wrinkled face and asked me allsogleich: "Has not the young ladies came
be deemed as she sits there in the picture? "

I replied that it was just it, the noble art of painting, not just the copy of the face to give.
But have noticed had to be in our eyes or cheeks ye more than others,
because their eyes were peering back and forth.

"The work is probably soon end?" said them with their highest vote. "Your eyes are sick gloss, Catherine;
the long Sit you did not have served well. "

I replied that the picture was soon completed, was only the robe here
and there to create.

"Now that he probably needs the presence of the lady not to - Come, Catherine, your Arm is better than
the stupid Insert here! "

And I need from the arid old jewel of my heart to see my gracious kidnap I thought it just won me,
that the little brown eyes me a silent farewell could send.

The next morning, the Assembly before midsummer, I began my journey. On a Gaul, the Dieterich besorget me,
I jogged in the morning from the doorway, and when I rode through the pine trees, broke one
of the Junkers herfuer dogs and drove my animals to the tendons,
when same is already from their own stable was, but the top of the
saddle, yet always seemed suspicious.

Nevertheless came in without injuries like this, me and the horse and Langeten evening in good
time Hamburg.

The next morning I got up and was soon a blunder, the picture frames many had done, that they
only collect and daraufzuthun in the corners of the ornaments needed. So were a bargain, and
promised the master to me all this carefully verpacket to send on.

Now it was though to inspect in the famous city from a Neubegierigen do much, so in the captain
of the pirate society Stoertebeker silver cup, which the second Landmark of the city is so named,
and without having seen the how it hot in a book, nobody can say that he had been in Hamburg,
then also the miracle fish with a Eagle claws and correct alignment, so even at that time was
caught in the same and Hamburg, as I redraw heard this, a naval victory against the Turkish pirates
indicated, alone, though not pass a true traveler These kinds of
oddities should, nevertheless, my mind, both burdened with worry and
longing of heart, too much.

Derohalben after I at a merchant's still umgesetzet my move and my night Hostels Accuracy and had met
again at noon, I boarded my horse and had allsobald all the noise of the great Hamburg behind me.

On the afternoon after I Langete in Preetz, reported to the pins at the Reverend Dame and was admitted
immediately.

I recognized in her stately person allsogleich the sister of my dear departed Mr. Gerhardus,
only how it is to unmarried Women often shew, the features of the face were nonetheless more
stringent than those of his brother. I had, even after I Catharine ueberreichet letter, a long
and hard examination to insist, but then they promised their assistance and Sit down to her
Schreibgeraethe, however, the maid had to lead me into another room,
I was very well entertained allwo.

It was already late in the afternoon, I rode back, but I figured, though my Gaul the miles behind
us already verspuerete still around midnight at the old Dieterich knocking .-- The letter, which given
the old lady for me Catherine, I was probably verwahret in a Ledertaeschlein under Jerkins
on the chest. So I rode for bass in the Ascending into dusk, very soon to her, the one, only and
always remembering my Sweet heart with new thoughts dissuasive.

It was a tepid June night, the dark areas are lifted up the smell
of wild flowers, from the buckling smelled the honeysuckle; pray silently
in the air and leaves the small unseen Nachtgeziefer or flew well
buzzing my snorting Gaule to the nostrils, but up there in the blue-black
enormous bell sky above me in Southeast beamed the constellation of
the swan in his pristine glory.

Since I finally had to Mr Gerhardus' land, I resolvirte me immediately still ride over to the village,
which side of the car behind the forest roads is situated. For I said that Krueger Hans Ott's got
a right hand Police cars; with the morning he should send a messenger in the city to the Hamburg
case for me pick up: but I wanted to knock at his bedroom window only to him to order such.

So I rode out at the forest edge, his eyes almost in dismay from the greenish Johannisfuenkchen,
the playful with its lights flying around me here. And already Raget big and dark the church
in front of me, rested in the walls of Mr Gerhardus among his people, and I heard in the tower just
ausholete the hammer, and the bells rang the midnight down to the village. 'But they're all
asleep, "I said to myself,' the dead in the churches or the high sky hieneben in the churchyard,
the survivors still inferior to the roofs, there are silent and dark in front of you. " So I
rode on.

However, when I at the pond came from where one can perceive Hans Ott's pitcher, from there I
saw a hazy glow break out of the way, and fiddles and clarinets to meet me Resound.

Since I nevertheless wanted to talk to the landlord, I rode my horse to him, and brought in Stable
under. When I entered then into the floor, it was full of crowding people, men and women, and
a cry and wuest Gear, such as I, even dancing in former Years not vermerket. The glow of the
tallow, so under a bar on a wooden cross floated, lifted some bearded and Spanking face of the
darkness and you are not alone dear would be encountered in the forest
.-- It is not just thugs and peasant boy seemed more fun; with the
musicians who sat in front of the Doen Over There on her tons, stood
the squire of the Risch, he had his coat over one arm, at the other
hung a firm prostitute.

But this little piece did not seem to like, for he tore out of the fiddler's violin the hands,
threw a handful of coins on his ton, demanding that it precludes the newfangled If two should play.
Then, when the musicians he quickly obeyed and did as great the new
process would seem, he cried out for court and vaulted into the dense
clusters; and the farm boy stared back on it, as it was the girl in
his arms, like a pigeon before the vultures.

But I turned away and went back into the room to talk with the landlord.

There sat the Junker Wulf the jug of wine and had the old Ott beside him, which he and all sorts
of Jokes in oppression brought, so he threatened to increase its interest to him, and shook with laughter
when the distressed man was pitifully for mercy and leniency supplicirte
.-- Since me he was aware he had not give up until I selbdritt gesetzet
me at the table, asked after my trip, and if I am also well vergnueget
in Hamburg, and I answered only, I came just back from there, and
will shortly arrive in the framework of the city, Hans Ott's where
he can get his Handwaeglein leichtlich may.

However, I negotiated with the latter kind now came the hereingestuermet
by Risch and shouted to the landlord to provide him a cool drink.

The Junker Wulf, however, the already the tongue in the mouth hard gnaws away took him by
the arm and pulled him down on the empty chair.

"Well, Kurt!" he cried. "Are you not tired of your girls, what is the Katharina to ? Say Come
on, we alamode off together a respectable hazard! "He had a card game pulled out from under
the jacket. "Allons donc - Dix et dame - Dame et valet!"

dermal I stood and watched the games, so was just fashion, only wishing that the Night pass
and morning would like to come .-- The drunken but this time seemed
sober About man, that of the Risch failed one after the other each
card.

"Be comforted, Kurt!" Wulf said the squire, however, he with a smile when a species Thaler Pile
scraping:

"Lucky in love and happiness in the game, Think, for a" Is it too much!

"Let the artist tell you here of your beautiful bride she knows the
heart;!

As get you's to the arts to know. "

The other, as I was best known liked it but not much aware of Liebesglueck
: for he struck cursing on the table and looked at all her fierce
on me.

"Oh, you're jealous, Kurt!" Junker Wulf said the fun, as if every word he on his tongue tasted
heavy, "but comforted you, the frame is ready to the picture, your friend, the painter is,
just now of Hamburg ".

At this word I saw the twitch of a sniffer dog at the same Risch of the weather. today "From
Hamburg - So he must have Fausti jacket bedienet himself;? because saw my groom him today at
lunch or in Preetz! In the pen in your base he was visiting. "

My hand went unexpectedly to the chest, where I had secured the Taeschlein with the letter;
because the eyes of the drunken Junkers Wulf was on me, and I was no different's like watching He
thus are my very secret face up. It lasts not long, it flew slapping the cards on the table. "Oho!"
he shouted. "In the pen, with my cousin! You carry probably even
twice crafts, boy!

Who sent you on the errand? "

"You do not Junker Wulf!" I replied, "and you have enough" - I wish for my Sword attack, but
he was not there, I was also now that I have him on the pommel hanged, as I just now brought
the horse to the stable.

And now the squire shouted back to his younger companion, "tear his jacket on, Kurt! It is the bright
bunch here, you will find a clean stationary, you would like to hate bestellet see! "

The selfsame moment I felt even the hands of the Risch in my body, and began a furious struggle
between us. I felt that I so easily as in the Boyhood, he would not over, but as Puget, it is
my luck that I he grabbed both wrists and shackled as he stood in front of me so. It had none of
We have announced this a word, but as we saw in the eyes itzund, as did every well that he's had
with his mortal enemy in front of him.

Such seemed the gentleman to my Wulf, he aimed up from his chair,
as if He's coming to the aid of the Risch, but might have enjoyed
too much wine, for he staggered back to his seat.

As he screamed so loud his babbling tongue, it could also: "Hey, Tartar! Tuerk! Where are
you stuck! Tartar, Turk!" And I now knew that the grim two Koëter, I had earlier in the barn to
see the serving hang me in the nude Throat should jump. Even I heard it through the turmoil
of the daherschnaufen dancers, I tore my enemy suddenly with a jerk to the ground, then jumped through
a side out of the room, I threw blaring behind me, and then won the open.

And to me, her back suddenly the quiet night and moon and stars shine. In the Stall to my horse, I
dare not to go first, but jumped flight through a wall and ran over to the field to the forest.
As I soon reaches For him, I was looking for direction comply with the Hall, for it runs the
Holzung to hard on the garden wall. Although was ruled out of the bright lights of heaven here through
the foliage of trees, but my Eyes became accustomed to the darkness very soon, and since I
Taeschlein safely under my Jerkins felt, I groped vorwaerts vigorously,
for I thought the rest of the night again rest in my room, then counsel
but with the old Dieterich, what happened allfort should, and I saw
so relaxed that I stay here would not henceforth.

Sometimes I even stood and listened, but I liked when I left the door well into the Castle
thrown and so have gained a good lead me by the dogs was not a sound audible. But since I just
came out of the shadows to the moon erhellete clearing when they heard I was not even remotely
the nightingales, and from where I heard their sound, then I taught my steps because I was
well aware they were only in the hedges around here Lord of the garden have nests; recognized now, where
I was and that I to Court did not do much more.

Therefore went to the lovely Schaller, always bright penetrated me
from the darkness.

Since suddenly struck something different to my ear, which came closer and suddenly my blood
freeze made. I could not doubt more, the dogs broke through the underbrush, they held laid on my
track, and already well behind me I heard her breathing and her huge Sentences in the dry leaves
of the forest floor. But God gave me his gracious protection, from the shade of the trees I
fell against the garden wall, and a lilac tree branches I swung me over. As sung here in the
garden still the nightingales, and the hedges cast deep shadows. In such a moonlit night, I
was once before my exit in the World with Mr Gerhardus changed here. "Look at it again, John!"
had dermal he said, "it could happen that you do not return home
at your welcome home to have more, and that then one will not come
for you at the gate would be written, - but I would like not want
you to forget this place here.

"

The itzund flew through his mind, and I had to laugh bitterly, because now I was here as a gehetzet
a game, and then I heard the dogs of the Junker Wulf even grim out there the garden wall run.
The same was as I seen the day before, not everywhere so high that
not wuethige Gethier was over, and round the garden was not a tree,
nothing but the thick hedges and over there against the house of the
flower beds of the blessed Lord. Then, when sounded just the barking
of dogs howling like a triumph in the garden wall, I beheld in my
distress the old Epheubaum, which stretches up with a strong base
of the tower; and since then Raset the dogs from the hedges on the
moonlit space than I was already high enough that she and her started,
could not reach me, only my coat, slipped so of the shoulder, they
had torn down their teeth to me.

I, however, that clinging and fearing
that it would up the weaker branches me bear on the non-permanent
looking, looking at me if I do not win any better grip would like,
but there was nothing to be seen as the dark Epheublaetter around
me .-- Since, in such Distress, I heard above me open a window and
a voice echoed down to me - would like I hear it again when you, my
God, I can now call soon from this earth valley! - "John!" she cried
softly, but clearly I hear my name and I climbed higher to the ever-weaker
twigs, however, the sleeping birds started up to me and the Dogs howl
from below heraufstiessen .-- "Catherine, it really you, Catherine?"

But
a trembling Haendlein came down to me and pulled me towards the open
window, and I looked into her eyes, which stared in horror at the
depths.

"Come!" she said. "They will rend you." As I swung myself
into her room .-- But when I was in, I let go of the Haendlein, and
Catherine sank into a chair, so stood at the window, her eyes were
closed tight.

“Did you know you would travel with me?” I asked, in a lower voice; for Tom Morville, my junior,
was at my other elbow.

“I knew I should travel with Mr. Wilcox,” she answered, with a smile that made all my nerves
tingle.

“You have not written me a word for ages,” said I, reproachfully.

“You had better not talk, or you’ll be making mistakes,” she replied, in an arch tone.  It
was quite true; for, a sudden confusion coming over me, I was sorting the letters at random.

We were just then approaching the small station where the letter-bag from the great house was
taken up.  The engine was slackening speed.  Miss Clifton manifested some natural and becoming
diffidence.

“It would look so odd,” she said, “to any one on the platform, to see a girl in the post-office
van!  And they couldn’t know I was a postmaster’s daughter, and had an order from Mr. Huntingdon.
Is there no dark corner to shelter me?”

I must explain to you in a word or two the construction of the van, which was much less efficiently
fitted up than the travelling post-offices of the present day.  It was a reversible van, with
a door at each right-hand corner.  At each door the letter-boxes were so arranged as to form
a kind of screen about two feet in width, which prevented people from seeing all over the carriage
at once.  Thus the door at the far end of the van, the one not in use at the time, was thrown
into deep shadow, and the screen before it turned it into a small niche, where a slight little
person like Miss Clifton was very well concealed from curious eyes.  Before the train came
within the light from the lamps on the platform, she ensconced herself in this shelter.  No
one but I could see her laughing face, as she stood there leaning cautiously forward with her
finger pressed upon her rosy lips, peeping at the messenger who delivered into my own hands
the Premier’s despatch-box, while Tom Morville received the letter-bag of the great house.

“See,” I said, when we were again in motion, and she had emerged from her concealment, “this
is the Premier’s despatch-box, going back to the Secretary of State.  There are some state
secrets for you, and ladies are fond of secrets.”

“Oh! I know nothing about politics,” she answered, indifferently, “and we have had that box
through our office a time or two.”

“Did you ever notice this mark upon it,” I asked—“a heart with a dagger through it?” and bending
down my face to hers, I added a certain spooney remark, which I do not care to repeat.  Miss
Clifton tossed her little head, and pouted her lips; but she took the box out of my hands,
and carried it to the lamp nearest the further end of the van, after which she put it down
upon the counter close beside the screen, and I thought no more about it.  The midnight ride
was entertaining in the extreme, for the girl was full of young life and sauciness and merry
humour.  I can safely aver that I have never been to an evening’s so-called entertainment which,
to me, was half so enjoyable.  It added also to the zest and keen edge of the enjoyment to
see her hasten to hide herself whenever I told her we were going to stop to take up the mails.

“We had passed Watford, the last station at which we stopped, before I became alive to the
recollection that our work was terribly behindhand. Miss Clifton also became grave, and sat
at the end of the counter very quiet and subdued, as if her frolic were over, and it was possible
she might find something to repent of in it.  I had told her we should stop no more until we
reached Euston-square station, but to my surprise I felt our speed decreasing, and our train
coming to a standstill.  I looked out and called to the guard in the van behind, who told me
he supposed there was something on the line before us, and that we should go on in a minute
or two.  I turned my head, and gave this information to my fellow-clerk and Miss Clifton.

“Do you know where we are?” she asked, in a frightened tone.

“At Camden-town,” I replied.  She sprang hastily from her seat, and came towards me.

“I am close to my friend’s house here,” she said, “so it is a lucky thing for me.  It is not
five minutes’ walk from the station.  I will say good-bye to you now, Mr. Wilcox, and I thank
you a thousand times for your kindness.”

She seemed flurried, and she held out both her little hands to me in an appealing kind of way,
as if she were afraid of my detaining her against her will.  I took them both into mine, pressing
them with rather more ardour than was quite necessary.

“I do not like you to go alone at this hour,” I said, “but there is no help for it.  It has
been a delightful time to me.  Will you allow me to call upon you to-morrow morning early,
for I leave London at 10.30; or on Wednesday, when I shall be in town again?”

“O,” she answered, hanging her head, “I don’t know.  I’ll write and tell mamma how kind you
have been, and, and—but I must go, Mr. Wilcox.”

“I don’t like your going alone,” I repeated.

“O! I know the way perfectly,” she said, in the same flurried manner, “perfectly, thank you.
And it is close at hand.  Goodbye.”

She jumped lightly out of the carriage, and the train started on again at the same instant.
We were busy enough, as you may suppose.  In five minutes more we should be in Euston-square,
and there was nearly fifteen minutes work still to be done.  Spite of the enjoyment he had
afforded me, I mentally anathematised Mr. Huntingdon and his departure from ordinary rules,
and, thrusting Miss Clifton forcibly out of my thoughts, I set to work with a will, gathered
up the registered letters for London, tied them into a bundle with the paper bill, and then
turned to the corner of the counter for the despatch-box.

You have guessed already my cursed misfortune.  The Premier’s despatch-box was not there. 
For the first minute or so I was in nowise alarmed, and merely looked round, upon the floor,
under the bags, into the boxes, into any place into which it could have fallen or been deposited.
We reached Euston-square while I was still searching, and losing more and more of my composure
every instant.  Tom Morville joined me in my quest, and felt every bag which had been made
up and sealed. The box was no small article which could go into little compass; it was certainly
twelve inches long, and more than that in girth.  But it turned up nowhere.  I never felt nearer
fainting than at that moment.

“Could Miss Clifton have carried it off?” suggested Tom Morville.

“No,” I said, indignantly but thoughtfully, “she couldn’t have carried off such a bulky thing
as that, without our seeing it.  It would not go into one of our pockets, Tom, and she wore
a tight-fitting jacket that would not conceal anything.”

“No, she can’t have it,” assented Tom; “then it must be somewhere about.” We searched again
and again, turning over everything in the van, but without success.  The Premier’s despatch-box
was gone; and all we could do at first was to stand and stare at one another.  Our trance of
blank dismay was of short duration, for the van was assailed by the postmen from St. Martin’s-le-Grand,
who were waiting for our charge.  In a stupor of bewilderment we completed our work, and delivered
up the mails; then, once more we confronted one another with pale faces, frightened out of
our seven senses.  All the scrapes we had ever been in (and we had had our usual share of errors
and blunders) faded into utter insignificance compared with this.  My eye fell upon Mr. Huntingdon’s
order lying among some scraps of waste paper on the floor, and I picked it up, and put it carefully,
with its official envelope, into my pocket.

“We can’t stay here,” said Tom.  The porters were looking in inquisitively; we were seldom
so long in quitting oar empty van.

“No,” I replied, a sudden gleam of sense darting across the blank bewilderment of my brain;
“no, we must go to head-quarters at once, and make a clean breast of it.  This is no private
business, Tom.”

We made one more ineffectual search, and then we hailed a cab and drove as hard as we could
to the General Post-office.  The secretary of the Post-office was not there, of course, but
we obtained the address of his residence in one of the suburbs, four or five miles from the
City, and we told no one of our misfortune, my idea being that the fewer who were made acquainted
with the loss the better.  My judgment was in the right there.

We had to knock up the household of the secretary—a formidable personage with whom I had never
been brought into contact before—and in a short time we were holding a strictly private and
confidential interview with him, by the glimmer of a solitary candle, just serving to light
up his severe face, which changed its expression several times as I narrated the calamity.
It was too stupendous for rebuke, and I fancied his eyes softened with something like commiseration
as he gazed upon us.  After a short interval of deliberation, he announced his intention of
accompanying us to the residence of the Secretary of State; and in a few minutes we were driving
back again to the opposite extremity of London. It was not far off the hour for the morning
delivery of letters when we reached our destination; but the atmosphere was yellow with fog,
and we could see nothing as we passed along in almost utter silence, for neither of us ventured
to speak, and the secretary only made a brief remark now and then.  We drove up to some dwelling
enveloped in fog, and we were left in the cab for nearly half an hour, while our secretary
went in.  At the end of that time we were summoned to an apartment where there was seated at
a large desk a small spare man, with a great head, and eyes deeply sunk under the brows.  There
was no form of introduction, of course, and we could only guess who he might be; but we were
requested to repeat our statement, and a few shrewd questions were put to us by the stranger.
We were eager to put him in possession of everything we knew, but that was little beyond the
fact that the despatch-box was lost.

“That young person must have taken it,” he said.

“She could not, sir,” I answered, positively, but deferentially.  “She wore the tightest-fitting
pelisse I ever saw, and she gave me both her hands when she said good-bye.  She could not possibly
have it concealed about her.  It would not go into my pocket.”

“How did she come to travel up with you in the van, sir?” he asked severely.

I gave him for answer the order signed by Mr. Huntingdon.  He and our secretary scanned it closely.

“It is Huntingdon’s signature without doubt,” said the latter; “I could swear to it anywhere.
This is an extraordinary circumstance!”

It was an extraordinary circumstance.  The two retired into an adjoining room, where they stayed
for another half-hour, and when they returned to us their faces still bore an aspect of grave
perplexity.

“Mr. Wilcox and Mr. Morville,” said our secretary, “it is expedient that this affair should
be kept inviolably secret.  You must even be careful not to hint that you hold any secret.
You did well not to announce your loss at the Post-office, and I shall cause it to be understood
that you had instructions to take the despatch-box direct to its destination. Your business
now is to find the young woman, and return with her not later than six o’clock this afternoon
to my office at the General Post-office.  What other steps we think it requisite to take, you
need know nothing about; the less you know, the better for yourselves.”

Another gleam of commiseration in his official eye made our hearts sink within us.  We departed
promptly, and, with that instinct of wisdom which at times dictates infallibly what course
we should pursue, we decided our line of action.  Tom Morville was to go down to Camden-town,
and inquire at every house for Miss Clifton, while I—there would be just time for it—was to
run down to Eaton by train and obtain her exact address from her parents.  We agreed to meet
at the General Post-office at half-past five, if I could possibly reach it by that time; but
in any case Tom was to report himself to the secretary and account for my absence.

When I arrived at the station at Eaton, I found that I had only forty-five minutes before the
up train went by.  The town was nearly a mile away, but I made all the haste I could to reach
it.  I was not surprised to find the post-office in connexion with a bookseller’s shop, and
I saw a pleasant elderly lady seated behind the counter, while a tall dark-haired girl was
sitting at some work a little out of sight.  I introduced myself at once.

“I am Frank Wilcox, of the railway post-office, and I have just run down to Eaton to obtain
some information from you.”

“Certainly.  We know you well by name,” was the reply, given in a cordial manner, which was
particularly pleasant to me.

“Will you be so good as give me the address of Miss Anne Clifton in Camden-town?” I said.

“Miss Anne Clifton?” ejaculated the lady.

“Yes.  Your daughter, I presume.  Who went up to London last night.”

“I have no daughter Anne,” she said; “I am Anne Clifton, and my daughters are named Mary and
Susan.  This is my daughter Mary.”

The tall dark-haired girl had left her seat, and now stood beside her mother.  Certainly she
was very unlike the small golden-haired coquette who had travelled up to London with me as
Anne Clifton.

“Madam,” I said, scarcely able to speak, “is your other daughter a slender little creature,
exactly the reverse of this young lady?”

“No,” she answered, laughing; “Susan is both taller and darker than Mary. Call Susan, my dear.”

In a few seconds Miss Susan made her appearance, and I had the three before me—A. Clifton,
S. Clifton, and M. Clifton.  There was no other girl in the family; and when I described the
young lady who had travelled under their name, they could not think of any one in the town—it
was a small one—who answered my description, or who had gone on a visit to London.  I had no
time to spare, and I hurried back to the station, just catching the train as it left the platform.
At the appointed hour I met Morville at the General Post-office, and threading the long passages
of the secretary’s offices, we at length found ourselves anxiously waiting in an ante-room,
until we were called into his presence.  Morville had discovered nothing, except that the porters
and policemen at Camden-town station had seen a young lady pass out last night, attended by
a swarthy man who looked like a foreigner, and carried a small black portmanteau.

I scarcely know how long we waited; it might have been years, for I was conscious of an ever-increasing
difficulty in commanding my thoughts, or fixing them upon the subject which had engrossed them
all day.  I had not tasted food for twenty-four hours, nor closed my eyes for thirty-six, while,
during the whole of the time, my nervous system had been on full strain.

Presently, the summons came, and I was ushered, first, into the inner apartment.  There sat
five gentlemen round a table, which was strewed with a number of documents.  There were the
Secretary of State, whom we had seen in the morning, our secretary, and Mr. Huntingdon; the
fourth was a fine-looking man, whom I afterwards knew to be the Premier; the fifth I recognised
as our great chief, the Postmaster-General.  It was an august assemblage to me, and I bowed
low; but my head was dizzy, and my throat parched.

“Mr. Wilcox,” said our secretary, “you will tell these gentlemen again, the circumstances of
the loss you reported to me this morning.”

I laid my hand upon the back of a chair to steady myself, and went through the narration for
the third time, passing over sundry remarks made by myself to the young lady.  That done, I
added the account of my expedition to Eaton, and the certainty at which I had arrived that
my fellow-traveller was not the person she represented herself to be.  After which, I inquired
with indescribable anxiety if Mr. Huntingdon’s order were a forgery?

“I cannot tell, Mr. Wilcox,” said that gentleman, taking the order into his hands, and regarding
it with an air of extreme perplexity.  “I could have sworn it was mine, had it been attached
to any other document.  I think Forbes’s handwriting is not so well imitated.  But it is the
very ink I use, and mine is a peculiar signature.”

It was a very peculiar and old-fashioned signature, with a flourish underneath it not unlike
a whip-handle, with the lash caught round it in the middle; but that did not make it the more
difficult to forge, as I humbly suggested.  Mr. Huntingdon wrote his name upon a paper, and
two or three of the gentlemen tried to imitate the flourish, but vainly.  They gave it up with
a smile upon their grave faces.

“You have been careful not to let a hint of this matter drop from you, Mr. Wilcox?” said the
Postmaster-General.

“Not a syllable, my lord,” I answered.

“It is imperatively necessary that the secret should be kept.  You would be removed from the
temptation of telling it, if you had an appointment in some office abroad.  The packet-agency
at Alexandria is vacant, and I will have you appointed to it at once.”

It would be a good advance from my present situation, and would doubtless prove a stepping-stone
to other and better appointments; but I had a mother living at Fazeley, bedridden and paralytic,
who had no pleasure in existence except having me to dwell under the same roof with her.  My
head was growing more and more dizzy, and a strange vagueness was creeping over me.

“Gentlemen,” I muttered, “I have a bedridden mother whom I cannot leave. I was not to blame,
gentlemen.”  I fancied there was a stir and movement at the table, but my eyes were dim, and
in another second I had lost consciousness.

When I came to myself, in two or three minutes, I found that Mr. Huntingdon was kneeling on
the floor beside me, supporting my head, while our secretary held a glass of wine to my lips.
I rallied as quickly as possible, and staggered to my feet; but the two gentlemen placed me
in the chair against which I had been leaning, and insisted upon my finishing the wine before
I tried to speak.

“I have not tasted food all day,” I said, faintly.

“Then, my good fellow, you shall go home immediately,” said the Postmaster-General; “but be
on your guard!  Not a word of this must escape you.  Are you a married man?”

“No, my lord,” I answered.

“So much the better,” he added, smiling.  “You can keep a secret from your mother, I dare say.
We rely upon your honour.”

The secretary then rang a bell, and I was committed to the charge of the messenger who answered
it; and in a few minutes I was being conveyed in a cab to my London lodgings.  A week afterwards,
Tom Morville was sent out to a post-office in Canada, where he settled down, married, and is
still living, perfectly satisfied with his position, as he occasionally informs me by letter.
For myself, I remained as I desired, in my old post as travelling-clerk until the death of
my mother, which occurred some ten or twelve months afterwards.  I was then promoted to an
appointment as a clerk in charge, upon the first vacancy.

The business of the clerks in charge is to take possession of any post-office in the kingdom,
upon the death or resignation of the postmaster, or when circumstances of suspicion cause his
suspension from office.  My new duties carried me three or four times into Mr. Huntingdon’s
district.  Though that gentleman and I never exchanged a word with regard to the mysterious
loss in which we had both had an innocent share, he distinguished me with peculiar favour,
and more than once invited me to visit him at his own house.  He lived alone, having but one
daughter, who had married, somewhat against his will, one of his clerks: the Mr. Forbes whose
handwriting had been so successfully imitated in the official order presented to me by the
self-styled Miss Anne Clifton.  (By the way, I may here mention, though it has nothing to do
with my story, that my acquaintance with the Cliftons had ripened into an intimacy, which resulted
in my engagement and marriage to Mary.)

It would be beside my purpose to specify the precise number of years which elapsed before I
was once again summoned to the secretary’s private apartment, where I found him closeted with
Mr. Huntingdon.  Mr. Huntingdon shook hands with unofficial cordiality; and then the secretary
proceeded to state the business on hand.

“Mr. Wilcox, you remember our offer to place you in office in Alexandria?” he said.

“Certainly, sir,” I answered.

“It has been a troublesome office,” he continued, almost pettishly.  “We sent out Mr. Forbes
only six months ago, on account of his health, which required a warmer climate, and now his
medical man reports that his life is not worth three weeks’ purchase.”

Upon Mr. Huntingdon’s face there rested an expression of profound anxiety; and as the secretary
paused he addressed himself to me.

“Mr. Wilcox,” he said, “I have been soliciting, as a personal favour, that you should be sent
out to take charge of the packet-agency, in order that my daughter may have some one at hand
to befriend her, and manage her business affairs for her.  You are not personally acquainted
with her, but I know I can trust her with you.”

“You may, Mr. Huntingdon,” I said, warmly.  “I will do anything I can to aid Mrs. Forbes. 
When do you wish me to start?”

“How soon can you be ready?” was the rejoinder.

“To-morrow morning.”

I was not married then, and I anticipated no delay in setting off.  Nor was there any.  I travelled
with the overland mail through France to Marseilles, embarked in a vessel for Alexandria, and
in a few days from the time I first heard of my destination set foot in the office there. All
the postal arrangements had fallen into considerable irregularity and confusion; for, as I
was informed immediately on my arrival, Mr. Forbes had been in a dying condition for the last
week, and of course the absence of a master had borne the usual results.  I took formal possession
of the office, and then, conducted by one of the clerks, I proceeded to the dwelling of the
unfortunate postmaster and his no less unfortunate wife.  It would be out of place in this
narrative to indulge in any traveller’s tales about the strange place where I was so unexpectedly
located.  Suffice it to say, that the darkened sultry room into which I was shown, on inquiring
for Mrs. Forbes, was bare of furniture, and destitute of all those little tokens of refinement
and taste which make our English parlours so pleasant to the eye.  There was, however, a piano
in one of the dark corners of the room, open, and with a sheet of music on it.  While I waited
for Mrs. Forbes’s appearance, I strolled idly up to the piano to see what music it might be.
The next moment my eye fell upon an antique red morocco workbox standing on the top of the
piano—a workbox evidently, for the lid was not closely shut, and a few threads of silk and
cotton were hanging out of it.  In a kind of dream—for it was difficult to believe that the
occurrence was a fact—I carried the box to the darkened window, and there, plain in my sight,
was the device scratched upon the leather: the revolutionary symbol of a heart with a dagger
through it.  I had found the Premier’s despatch-box in the parlour of the packet-agent of Alexandria!

I stood for some minutes with that dream-like feeling upon me, gazing at the box in the dim
obscure light.  It could not be real!  My fancy must be playing a trick upon me!  But the sound
of a light step—for, light as it was, I heard it distinctly as it approached the room—broke
my trance, and I hastened to replace the box on the piano, and to stoop down as if examining
the music before the door opened.  I had not sent in my name to Mrs. Forbes, for I did not
suppose that she was acquainted with it, nor could she see me distinctly, as I stood in the
gloom.  But I could see her.  She had the slight slender figure, the childlike face, and the
fair hair of Miss Anne Clifton.  She came quickly across the room, holding out both her hands
in a childish appealing manner.

“O!” she wailed, in a tone that went straight to my heart, “he is dead! He has just died!”

It was no time then to speak about the red morocco workbox.  This little childish creature,
who did not look a day older than when I had last seen her in my travelling post-office, was
a widow in a strange land, far away from any friend save myself.  I had brought her a letter
from her father. The first duties that devolved upon me were those of her husband’s interment,
which had to take place immediately.  Three or four weeks elapsed before I could, with any
humanity, enter upon the investigation of her mysterious complicity in the daring theft practised
on the government and the post-office.

I did not see the despatch-box again.  In the midst of her new and vehement grief, Mrs. Forbes
had the precaution to remove it before I was ushered again into the room where I had discovered
it.  I was at some trouble to hit upon any plan by which to gain a second sight of it; but
I was resolved that Mrs. Forbes should not leave Alexandria without giving me a full explanation.
We were waiting for remittances and instructions from England, and in the meantime the violence
of her grief abated, and she recovered a good share of her old buoyancy and loveliness, which
had so delighted me on my first acquaintance with her.  As her demands upon my sympathy weakened,
my curiosity grew stronger, and at last mastered me.  I carried with me a netted purse which
required mending, and I asked her to catch up the broken meshes while I waited for it.

“I will tell your maid to bring your workbox,” I said, going to the door and calling the servant.
“Your mistress has a red morocco workbox,” I said to her, as she answered my summons.

“Yes, sir,” she replied.

“Where is it?”

“In her bedroom,” she said.

“Mrs. Forbes wishes it brought here.”  I turned back into the room.  Mrs. Forbes had gone deadly
pale, but her eyes looked sullen, and her teeth were clenched under her lips with an expression
of stubbornness.  The maid brought the workbox.  I walked, with it in my hands, up to the sofa
where she was seated.

“You remember this mark?” I asked; “I think neither of us can ever forget it.”

She did not answer by word, but there was a very intelligent gleam in her blue eyes.

“Now,” I continued, softly, “I promised your father to befriend you, and I am not a man to
forget a promise.  But you must tell me the whole simple truth.”

I was compelled to reason with her, and to urge her for some time.  I confess I went so far
as to remind her that there was an English consul at Alexandria, to whom I could resort.  At
last she opened her stubborn lips, and the whole story came out, mingled with sobs and showers
of tears.

She had been in love with Alfred, she said, and they were too poor to marry, and papa would
not hear of such a thing.  She was always in want of money, she was kept so short; and they
promised to give her such a great sum—a vast sum—five hundred pounds.

“But who bribed you?” I inquired.

A foreign gentleman whom she had met in London, called Monsieur Bonnard. It was a French name,
but she was not sure that he was a Frenchman.  He talked to her about her father being a surveyor
in the post-office, and asked her a great number of questions.  A few weeks after, she met
him in their own town by accident, she and Mr. Forbes; and Alfred had a long private talk with
him, and they came to her, and told her she could help them very much.  They asked her if she
could be brave enough to carry off a little red box out of the travelling post-office, containing
nothing but papers.  After a while she consented.  When she had confessed so much under compulsion,
Mrs. Forbes seemed to take a pleasure in the narrative, and went on fluently.

“We required papa’s signature to the order, and we did not know how to get it.  Luckily he
had a fit of the gout, and was very peevish; and I had to read over a lot of official papers
to him, and then he signed them.  One of the papers I read twice, and slipped the order into
its place after the second reading.  I thought I should have died with fright; but just then
he was in great pain, and glad to get his work over.  I made an excuse that I was going to
visit my aunt at Beckby, but instead of going there direct, we contrived to be at the station
at Eaton a minute or two before the mail train came up.  I kept outside the station door till
we heard the whistle, and just then the postman came running down the road, and I followed
him straight through the booking-office, and asked him to give you the order, which I put into
his hand.  He scarcely saw me.  I just caught a glimpse of Monsieur Bonnard’s face through
the window of the compartment next the van, when Alfred had gone.  They had promised me that
the train should stop at Camden-town, if I could only keep your attention engaged until then.
You know how I succeeded.”

“But how did you dispose of the box?” I asked.  “You could not have concealed it about you;
that I am sure of.”

“Ah!” she said, “nothing was easier.  Monsieur Bonnard had described the van to me, and you
remember I put the box down at the end of the counter, close to the corner where I hid myself
at every station. The epic.]

7. In the tragedy must be represented in the wonder of epic poetry, however, has rather the irrational,
on which is based in the main, the miraculous, his place, because you (Ibid.) does not apply
to the actor's eyes, as for example in the processes of Pursuit of Hector [70] presented on
the stage into a ridiculous impression would on the one hand, the stationary and not pursuing men,
on the other one [71], the waved. In the epic, however, remains the absurd (such an operation)
is hidden, because the wonder aroused pleasure. Proof (p. 56) that all storytellers exaggerate enjoy
with the intention of it.

8. In particular, Homer has taught the other (epic poet) how to (appropriate) untrue could
say. But this is based on a fallacy. People believe that is because when a first (A, the first premise),
or is happening, and a second (B, the second premise) occurs, that now as if the later (B)
is real, and the Past (A) really or is happening. But this is a fallacy. If in fact the first
(A) is wrong, something another (B), but - the accuracy of the first (A) provided - really
necessarily or is happening, it must be just that second (B) add. For since we know that this (B)
is true, does our mind, that now also the first (A) is true. An example is the following from the bathing
scene [72] <....>

9. At last, the impossible must be probable from possible incredible preference . Give However one
can not build the materials on irrational parts, they should if possible, contain nothing at
all unreasonable, but if this might not be so it (at least) outside the (actual) Hegen act
such as (the irrational) Oedipus in his ignorance that is the way in which Laius was killed
[73], but not within the drama, such as in the Electra [74] reporting on the Pythian Games
or in the Mysians the man (p. 57) which moved silently from Tegea to Mysia. [75] to say that
would otherwise be the story to pieces, would be ridiculous, you have just by beginning to create
no such fables. Has it done but still appears and the Units generally credible, one may also
reason about Adverse into the bargain . Take But would the inconvenience of the scenes in
the Odyssey that would result from the suspension [76] video (of the sleeping Odysseus) (1460b) immediately
fall into the eyes when an inferior Poet would have written it. As the matter is, however, has other
benefits of the poets by the Irrational and sweetened by it (the awareness) enraptured.

10. The linguistic expression to the poet he takes special care in the vacuous Turning parts,
ie those that neither by nature nor by depiction of the thoughts distinguished. On the other
hand would be indeed a too brilliant style, both the characterization how obscure the content of
thought.

       

* * * * *

CHAPTER XXV

[Sidenote: c. 25, 1 The epic, problems and solutions.]

1. About the problems [77] (critical concerns) and their solutions (refutations), how many constituted
and how they are based perspective, one is by the following observation get a clear picture.
Given that the poet, like the painter or any other image-makers (p. 58) artist is an imitative representation,
he must necessarily a well-defined three kinds represent imitation, that is either (1) as
things were or are, or (2) how do you say that they were or how they
appear to be or (3) how they should be.

These things are now represented by the commonly used Expression or by glosses and metaphors,
or what else is transformations of of linguistic expression is, for this (freedom) so we allow
the poets.

2. This is also shown that the accuracy in politics and poetry any more than in any other art or
science and poetry are one and the same thing. In the art of poetry itself there are two kinds
of error that relates to its nature, the other is purely external.

3. Has the poet used to charge <etwas richtig> Imitating present, <verfehlt But his goal> of their
own inability, then the fault lies in the poetry itself, and if however, he found the allegation true,
but the impossible has described, such as a horse with the two right
legs simultaneously ausschreitet, or whatever else in any art, as
medicine or any other, of whatever kind, would be a mistake, it affects
this not the essence of art.

We must, therefore, to this point of the reproachful objections in solving the problems considered
and (disprove).

4. First, then what are the solutions with respect to the art as such directed against the
objections concerns if the impossible was shown, that even if there is a breach, but the matter
has yet their accuracy, if it is the purpose of poetry (p. 59) is achieved and the purpose namely,
as already mentioned, when the poet a greater shock "effect, whether in made that part or
another, so. An example is that tracking Hector. [78] If it was possible, however, the purpose,
whether to a greater or lesser degree, achieve well in these things
according to the prevailing rule of art, it has the error is not quite
correct, because if it somehow is concerned, by any Errors are committed.

5.

One can also raise the question of what then is the error committed, whether against the rule of art
or anything random, because far less is the mistake, if someone such as did not know that a
hind has no horns [79], as if he without (actually) imitating would have drawn to represent.

6. Further, if criticized, that the representation was not true, one would have the objection
Sun refute: But perhaps as it should be, as indeed has also said Sophocles, he put People are
as they should be, Euripides, however, as they are.

[Sidenote: c. 25, 7 Problems and solutions.]

7. But can not one of them say that one can rely on the fact that just says, as in the tales
of the gods. Perhaps it is neither better them as present, yet in truth, but it may do so as
it is in Xenophanes [80] (1461a) <....>, then (we reply), but they
say now (P. 60) like that.

8.

Another is again perhaps not expedient, but actually once Eswar so as the example of the weapons
said: "But the spears | stood up at the foot of the shaft [81] namely, one such custom followed
then, as now, the Illyrians.

9. In deciding whether someone said or done morally good or not is, one must consider not only the
plot and the Eede itself into account and make sure whether it is
noble or common, but also touch the actor or speaker in the eye (and
) Study in relation to whom or when or in whose favor or for any purpose
(it happens), for example, whether because of the greater good because
that reached, or a greater evil, to be prevented.

10. Other objections must be addressed by observation of verbal expression, for example by Adoption
of a gloss. "The mouths first." [82] Perhaps that is said (the poet) to the Ourēas words, not
"mule" but the "guard". Dolon and he says: "The shape of (Eidos), but ugly "[83]. He does
not means a body imperfections, but a ugly face, but the Cretans use the word eueides (beautifully
designed =) in the sense of euprosōpon (= fair of face).

Furthermore, (zōróteron) mixer wine, "not [84] that unmixed wine,
like for drunkards (p. 61) but (mix) "faster."

    
    11. Another is said metaphorically,
for example

/ * "Everybody now, so the gods as armored warriors
rosse Slept all night "

* /

    and yet it is immediately
     
/ * See, whenever he his eye hinwandte the Trojan field.

The lilacs and whistles and pealing of the crowd. "[85] * /

Of that, "All" is in place of "many," said metaphorically, for an "all" is only one Nature of
the "many".

Even that "not only takes part [90] is to be understood metaphorically,
because the" known "

(here) the "sole".

12.
    Further, one can (refute objections) on the basis of prosody, as
    Hippias of this Thasi did in that "we
grant (dídomen), however," [87] and "The partially rotted by the
rain"

[88].

[Sidenote:
    c. 25, 13 Problems and solutions.]

13.

Yet another means of punctuation, such as Empedocles says [89]:

/ * Quick grew up as mortal, is immortal wasfrüher knew And when mixed
together before louder.

"
    * /

[Sidenote: c. 25, 14 Problems and solutions.]

14. Other
then
    by adopting a Amphiboly (p.
62) (double meaning):

/ * "From the night vanished, the greater
part"

[91] * /

because the term "major" (pleíō) is ambiguous.

15. Other concerns (loose) with reference to the use of language:
a mixed drink, says one is, wine.

After this point was made:

/ * "Rail from neubereitetem pinnacle" [92], * /

called but Ironforge and copper workers.

Again, according to the same point it says: Ganymede / * "Zeus pours the wine," * /

although they (the gods) do not drink wine [93].

But this example could be a metaphor . Conceive

16. One must also, if a word seems to denote something contradictory to investigate, how often this
sense it can have on the (relevant) place, like in that "Since gave the bronze spear to "[94],
as many there the sense may take hinder."

17. Whether so or would like someone the matter preferably (1461B) view is to consider In contrast
to the procedure reported by the Glaucon.

Some go of baseless conditions from and to which they arbitrarily
final judgment (p. 63), they build Conclusions on it and then blame
the writers, if they find something that their (pre-conceived Contrary
opinion, because he has not said what suits their purpose.

This happened with discussions on Ikarios. It is clear from the premise that he is a laconic.
It seemed so absurd that Telemachus when he came to Sparta [95], not with him met was. It
behaved so but perhaps the way the report Kephallenier. They tell that Odysseus had brought
with them his wife and it was not Ikadios Ikarios (his Father).

Accordingly, it is likely that that problem sprung from a misunderstanding is.

18. In general, you have to do the impossible in poetry either the
appropriate or attributed to the prevailing opinion.

Because the seal is for the satisfaction of the impossible Although the incredible, but it may
now be preferred as possible, perhaps, be impossible that there are such people, as she used
to paint as Zeuxis, it is still useful (To represent them), because the ideal of due priority.

19.
The irrational need to do 'what people say, and you can back it both
justified in this way as well so that it sometimes does not even irrational
, Is because it is probable that something against the probability
occurred.

       

[Sidenote: c. 25, 20 Problems and solutions.]

20. The contradictory manner in said one should examine the way the refutations in the Dialectic, whether
it's the same thing or whether it is in the same relationship or the same (p. 64) manner is,
therefore, the poet either against what he says, or against requiring what would a reasonable man,
(must get involved in conflict).

21.

Facilities, however, is the blame, both against irrationality as evil, if (The poet) without any
external compulsion, the irrational use, such as Euripides in the case of Aegeus [96], or
Charakterschlechtigkeit, as in Orestes [97] that of Menelaus.

22. The observations are thus set of five species, either because they blame something as impossible
or unreasonable or sittenverderblich or as contradictory or as an infringement of the art technical
correctness.

The solutions (rebuttals) but are listed according to the subdivisions to consider which there are twelve.

*
* * * *

CHAPTER XXVI

1. One might raise the question whether the epic or the tragic imitative
representation is the more excellent.

If that is the less crude, the benefits, but the species is, which
refers to a better (more educated) audience respect, it is manifest
that of imitative Representation, which is aimed at every Tom, Dick
and Harry, a plump.

In the conviction, namely, the audience would show no sympathy (for the presentation), if he
(the actor) not itself something to it (p. 65) contributes, so they remain in strong contortions;
there are rolling as the bumbling flutist when the discus throw is imitating present and drag the
choir leader (at the garment) if they blow the Scylla.

2. The tragedy is now the way the older actors judged their successors, because Mynniskos called the Callipidae
because he did too much exaggerated, a Callias [98] and in a similar
(bad) call was also Pindar. How now (1462a) those (older actors) act
on these, then the entire (tragic) Art to behave epic poetry. These,
he asserted, contact your high audience that no one (prancing) movements
require the tragic contrast to low. If it therefore is a crude art,
so is they apparently also let down.

3. Solo is the first of an indictment
not against poetry, but against the presentation of art, because it
can also exaggerate the rhapsode by movement, as did Sosistratos and
(Just) in the musical competitions, as did the Mnasitheos Opuntia.
Next, not to discard any body movement, since even the dance is not
discarded, but only the movement of bunglers, as was indeed Callipidae
blamed others, and today, because they represent free women imitating
incomprehensible.

[Sidenote: c. 26, 4 Advantage of the tragedy before
the epic.]

4. Further, the tragedy reached without (theatrical movement
its purpose, just as the epic poetry, because by the mere reading
of it shows what kind they is. If it is (p. 66) So at least the rest
(the epic) consider their needs in any case that blame not be liable
necessary.

5. Then (2) (it is superior) because it has everything
that has the epic poetry, because also the same meter they can use
and she has also not an insignificant Part in the musical performance
and theatrical equipment through which the pleasures be implemented
very alive.  For my part, when I seemed
to wake to a sudden sense of the ruin that was about our path and I saw how the truest friendship
that ever bound two lives together was drifting on to wreck and ruin, I asked myself whether
any woman in the world was worth what Mat had been to me and I to him.  But this was not often.
I was readier to shut my eyes upon the truth than to face it; and so lived on, wilfully, in
a dream.

Thus the autumn passed away, and winter came—the strange, treacherous, Genoese winter, green
with olive and ilex, brilliant with sunshine, and bitter with storm.  Still, rivals at heart
and friends on the surface, Mat and I lingered on in our lodging in the Vicolo Balba.  Still
Gianetta held us with her fatal wiles and her still more fatal beauty.  At length there came
a day when I felt I could bear the horrible misery and suspense of it no longer.  The sun,
I vowed, should not go down before I knew my sentence.  She must choose between us.  She must
either take me or let me go.  I was reckless.  I was desperate.  I was determined to know the
worst, or the best.  If the worst, I would at once turn my back upon Genoa, upon her, upon
all the pursuits and purposes of my past life, and begin the world anew.  This I told her,
passionately and sternly, standing before her in the little parlour at the back of the shop,
one bleak December morning.

“If it’s Mat whom you care for most,” I said, “tell me so in one word, and I will never trouble
you again.  He is better worth your love.  I am jealous and exacting; he is as trusting and
unselfish as a woman.  Speak, Gianetta; am I to bid you good-bye for ever and ever, or am I
to write home to my mother in England, bidding her pray to God to bless the woman who has promised
to be my wife?”

“You plead your friend’s cause well,” she replied, haughtily.  “Matteo ought to be grateful.
This is more than he ever did for you.”

“Give me my answer, for pity’s sake,” I exclaimed, “and let me go!”

“You are free to go or stay, Signor Inglese,” she replied.  “I am not your jailor.”

“Do you bid me leave you?”

“Beata Madre! not I.”

“Will you marry me, if I stay?”

She laughed aloud—such a merry, mocking, musical laugh, like a chime of silver bells!

“You ask too much,” she said.

“Only what you have led me to hope these five or six months past!”

“That is just what Matteo says.  How tiresome you both are!”

“O, Gianetta,” I said, passionately, “be serious for one moment!  I am a rough fellow, it is
true—not half good enough or clever enough for you; but I love you with my whole heart, and
an Emperor could do no more.”

“I am glad of it,” she replied; “I do not want you to love me less.”

“Then you cannot wish to make me wretched!  Will you promise me?”

“I promise nothing,” said she, with another burst of laughter; “except that I will not marry
Matteo!”

Except that she would not marry Matteo!  Only that.  Not a word of hope for myself.  Nothing
but my friend’s condemnation.  I might get comfort, and selfish triumph, and some sort of base
assurance out of that, if I could.  And so, to my shame, I did.  I grasped at the vain encouragement,
and, fool that I was! let her put me off again unanswered.  From that day, I gave up all effort
at self-control, and let myself drift blindly on—to destruction.

At length things became so bad between Mat and myself that it seemed as if an open rupture
must be at hand.  We avoided each other, scarcely exchanged a dozen sentences in a day, and
fell away from all our old familiar habits.  At this time—I shudder to remember it!—there were
moments when I felt that I hated him.

Thus, with the trouble deepening and widening between us day by day, another month or five
weeks went by; and February came; and, with February, the Carnival.  They said in Genoa that
it was a particularly dull carnival; and so it must have been; for, save a flag or two hung
out in some of the principal streets, and a sort of festa look about the women, there were
no special indications of the season.  It was, I think, the second day when, having been on
the line all the morning, I returned to Genoa at dusk, and, to my surprise, found Mat Price
on the platform. He came up to me, and laid his hand on my arm.

“You are in late,” he said.  “I have been waiting for you three-quarters of an hour.  Shall
we dine together to-day?”

Impulsive as I am, this evidence of returning good will at once called up my better feelings.

“With all my heart, Mat,” I replied; “shall we go to Gozzoli’s?”

“No, no,” he said, hurriedly.  “Some quieter place—some place where we can talk.  I have something
to say to you.”

I noticed now that he looked pale and agitated, and an uneasy sense of apprehension stole upon
me.  We decided on the “Pescatore,” a little out-of-the-way trattoria, down near the Molo Vecchio.
There, in a dingy salon, frequented chiefly by seamen, and redolent of tobacco, we ordered
our simple dinner.  Mat scarcely swallowed a morsel; but, calling presently for a bottle of
Sicilian wine, drank eagerly.

“Well, Mat,” I said, as the last dish was placed on the table, “what news have you?”

“Bad.”

“I guessed that from your face.”

“Bad for you—bad for me.  Gianetta.”

“What of Gianetta?”

He passed his hand nervously across his lips.

“Gianetta is false—worse than false,” he said, in a hoarse voice.  “She values an honest man’s
heart just as she values a flower for her hair—wears it for a day, then throws it aside for
ever.  She has cruelly wronged us both.”

“In what way?  Good Heavens, speak out!”

“In the worst way that a woman can wrong those who love her.  She has sold herself to the Marchese
Loredano.”

The blood rushed to my head and face in a burning torrent.  I could scarcely see, and dared
not trust myself to speak.

“I saw her going towards the cathedral,” he went on, hurriedly.  “It was about three hours
ago.  I thought she might be going to confession, so I hung back and followed her at a distance.
When she got inside, however, she went straight to the back of the pulpit, where this man was
waiting for her.  You remember him—an old man who used to haunt the shop a month or two back.
Well, seeing how deep in conversation they were, and how they stood close under the pulpit
with their backs towards the church, I fell into a passion of anger and went straight up the
aisle, intending to say or do something: I scarcely knew what; but, at all events, to draw
her arm through mine, and take her home.  When I came within a few feet, however, and found
only a big pillar between myself and them, I paused. They could not see me, nor I them; but
I could hear their voices distinctly, and—and I listened.”

“Well, and you heard—”

“The terms of a shameful bargain—beauty on the one side, gold on the other; so many thousand
francs a year; a villa near Naples—Pah! it makes me sick to repeat it.”

And, with a shudder, he poured out another glass of wine and drank it at a draught.

“After that,” he said, presently, “I made no effort to bring her away. 

Of course, a revision to the original plan could not be said as it turned out very soon that
a would such be very unsatisfactory and I resolved the Ueberwegsche transmission through a new
substitute. Those based that is still on the Bekkerschen text, reproduced, essentially only the Aldin,
while mine, although quite conservative, even by the Vahlen's (1886) to almost 300 jobs different,
a result that for the most part have not sufficiently exploited the Syrian Arab Translation
is due. [1] then had Ueberweg, as well as (see IV) its predecessor and successors are not closely enough
connected to the text of the original and gave such a mE misleading impression of the peculiar nature
of didactic poetry. Because they , with its highly elliptical and taciturn expression and their
often very briefly aphorisms and scribbled ideas and doctrines, their mode of origin quite appropriately
anything rather than a product of Attic prose. We have in fact in it, to say briefly what should
be shown in detail in another place, not an excerpt, but to see only the remnants of a college issue,
on the attentive and supervising Readers no consideration needed to take and often quietly Implied
further oral version left. It was finally add that I very numerous could not represent the
opinions acquire Ueberweg. A translation should, however, especially since the a technical and
difficult writing, at least partly replace a comment. Accordingly, I was trying, above all,
the word on a new text based Recensio so-and mutatis true reflect how this was no damage to
the German expression can possibly be. That Now the text-critical Annex Ueberweg had to come
in elimination, of course by itself The same Was the fate but also the explanatory notes which were intended
primarily to as the author himself indicates, "still unsettled disputes to feed their solution."
Extent they have achieved that purpose, may remain an open question in each case were they
(See V) except for some purely factual evidence, the reader, which the "Philosophical Library ", preferably
in view, significant of no use. Should anyone still interest for these particularly so yes, the
old edition in libraries is easily accessible. In their place now explanatory lists of names and terms
are entered, the only which should give what seemed to me for direct understanding appropriate,
taking as an explanation or even criticism of Aristotle's teachings had to be apart of course,
to me to exceed the space available to it not.
  He was carried to the nearest hospital, and lay
for some weeks between life and death.  His case, they said, was difficult and dangerous. 
The knife had gone in just below the collarbone, and pierced down into the lungs.  He was not
allowed to speak or turn—scarcely to breathe with freedom.  He might not even lift his head
to drink.  I sat by him day and night all through that sorrowful time.  I gave up my situation
on the railway; I quitted my lodging in the Vicolo Balba; I tried to forget that such a woman
as Gianetta Coneglia had ever drawn breath.  I lived only for Mat; and he tried to live more,
I believe, for my sake than his own.  Thus, in the bitter silent hours of pain and penitence,
when no hand but mine approached his lips or smoothed his pillow, the old friendship came back
with even more than its old trust and faithfulness.  He forgave me, fully and freely; and I
would thankfully have given my life for him.

At length there came one bright spring morning, when, dismissed as convalescent, he tottered
out through the hospital gates, leaning on my arm, and feeble as an infant.  He was not cured;
neither, as I then learned to my horror and anguish, was it possible that he ever could be
cured.  He might live, with care, for some years; but the lungs were injured beyond hope of
remedy, and a strong or healthy man he could never be again.  These, spoken aside to me, were
the parting words of the chief physician, who advised me to take him further south without delay.

I took him to a little coast-town called Rocca, some thirty miles beyond Genoa—a sheltered
lonely place along the Riviera, where the sea was even bluer than the sky, and the cliffs were
green with strange tropical plants, cacti, and aloes, and Egyptian palms.  Here we lodged in
the house of a small tradesman; and Mat, to use his own words, “set to work at getting well
in good earnest.”  But, alas! it was a work which no earnestness could forward.  Day after
day he went down to the beach, and sat for hours drinking the sea air and watching the sails
that came and went in the offing.  By-and-by he could go no further than the garden of the
house in which we lived.  A little later, and he spent his days on a couch beside the open
window, waiting patiently for the end.  Ay, for the end!  It had come to that.  He was fading
fast, waning with the waning summer, and conscious that the Reaper was at hand.  His whole
aim now was to soften the agony of my remorse, and prepare me for what must shortly come.

“I would not live longer, if I could,” he said, lying on his couch one summer evening, and
looking up to the stars.  “If I had my choice at this moment, I would ask to go.  I should
like Gianetta to know that I forgave her.”

“She shall know it,” I said, trembling suddenly from head to foot.

He pressed my hand. 

Since I was hingeknieet front of her and lay on her young breast, and we compassed in large Herzensnoth.
"Oh, Kaethe," said I, "what the poor can love, then! Even if your brother Wulf would not, I'm not
a gentleman and may not recruit you. "

Very cute and she gazed at me carefully, but then it came like mischief out of their mouths:
"No gentleman, John - I thought you were also, but - Oh, no, your
father was only the friend of my - this is probably not the world!

"No, Kaethe; not, and certainly not here," I replied and included their solid virginal body, "but over
there in Holland, where an able painter is probably a German Nobleman, the limit of van Dyck's
Mynherr palace of Amsterdam is probably the highest honor to be exceeded. We wanted to hold
me over there, my master van der Heist, and others!

When I went back there for a year or even two, then - we then have come from here continue;
I just stay solid wilderness against your squire!

Catherine's white hands stroked my hair and they hug me and said quietly: "There I left up
to my room, I'll still have to be your wife. "

- Your once suspected probably not what a river of fire that word
in my veins poured, is not it The blood was hot pulses .-- Of three
terrible demons, anger and fear of death and love was a hunted man,
now my head in the much-beloved wife lap.

Since a piercing shrill whistle, the dogs were suddenly quiet down there, and there again rang,
I heard how great they are wild and run away.

From the court her steps were heard and we listened to, that we stood
silent the breath.

Soon But was there a door at first, then added to it and then put to an end. "This is Wulf," Catherine
said quietly, "he has locked the two dogs in the barn." - Soon we heard the door go among us of the hallway,
turn the key and then Steps in the lower corridor, the lost, where
the squire had his room.

Then Everything was quiet.

It was finally safe, sure, but with our chat, it was almost at once
to an end.

Catherine had her head leaning back, with only our two hearts beating I heard .-- "Shall I now
go, Catherine? "I said finally.

But the young arms pulled me silently up to her mouth, and I did not go.

No sound was more than from the garden depth of the beating of the nightingales and away from
the Sound of the brook, which flows back around the hedges .--

If, as they say in the songs, sometimes even nights in the beautiful
pagan Venus rises and bypasses to confuse the poor man's heart, it
was to paint such a Night.

The moon was out than the sky, a sultry Ruch of flowers breathed through the window and making melody
yonder o'er the forest the night in silent lightning .-- O watchdogs, guardians, was your reputation
so far?

- Well I still remember that from the court her suddenly hot cocks
were crowing, and that I a pale and weeping woman in my arms, held
the would not let me, careless, that o'er the garden and threw red
glow of dawn in our room. But then, because it was held DESS, drove
them how frightened by the fear of death, I continued.

One more kiss,
a hundred, a fugitive word yet: when ringing for the servants to noon
would, we wanted to meet the pine forest, and then - I knew little
himself, as I's happen - I stood in the garden, cool down in the morning
air.

Again, as I think of the dogs picked up tattered coat, I looked
up and I saw a pale Haendlein wave goodbye.  Then I became a working engineer on the new desert line between Alexandria
and Suez; and by-and-by I worked my passage out to Bombay, and took service as an engine fitter
on one of the great Indian railways.  I stayed a long time in India; that is to say, I stayed
nearly two years, which was a long time for me; and I might not even have left so soon, but
for the war that was declared just then with Russia.  That tempted me.  For I loved danger
and hardship as other men love safety and ease; and as for my life, I had sooner have parted
from it than kept it, any day.  So I came straight back to England; betook myself to Portsmouth,
where my testimonials at once procured me the sort of berth I wanted.  I went out to the Crimea
in the engine-room of one of her Majesty’s war steamers.

I served with the fleet, of course, while the war lasted; and when it was over, went wandering
off again, rejoicing in my liberty.  This time I went to Canada, and after working on a railway
then in progress near the American frontier, I presently passed over into the States; journeyed
from north to south; crossed the Rocky Mountains; tried a month or two of life in the gold
country; and then, being seized with a sudden, aching, unaccountable longing to revisit that
solitary grave so far away on the Italian coast, I turned my face once more towards Europe.

Poor little grave!  I found it rank with weeds, the cross half shattered, the inscription half
effaced.  It was as if no one had loved him, or remembered him.  I went back to the house in
which we had lodged together.  The same people were still living there, and made me kindly
welcome.  I stayed with them for some weeks.  I weeded, and planted, and trimmed the grave
with my own hands, and set up a fresh cross in pure white marble.  It was the first season
of rest that I had known since I laid him there; and when at last I shouldered my knapsack
and set forth again to battle with the world, I promised myself that, God willing, I would
creep back to Rocca, when my days drew near to ending, and be buried by his side.

From hence, being, perhaps, a little less inclined than formerly for very distant parts, and
willing to keep within reach of that grave, I went no further than Mantua, where I engaged
myself as an engine-driver on the line, then not long completed, between that city and Venice.
Somehow, although I had been trained to the working engineering, I preferred in these days
to earn my bread by driving.  I liked the excitement of it, the sense of power, the rush of
the air, the roar of the fire, the flitting of the landscape.  Above all, I enjoyed to drive
a night express.  The worse the weather, the better it suited with my sullen temper.  For I
was as hard, and harder than ever.  The years had done nothing to soften me.  They had only
confirmed all that was blackest and bitterest in my heart.

I continued pretty faithful to the Mantua line, and had been working on it steadily for more
than seven months when that which I am now about to relate took place.

It was in the month of March.  The weather had been unsettled for some days past, and the nights
stormy; and at one point along the line, near Ponte di Brenta, the waters had risen and swept
away some seventy yards of embankment.  Since this accident, the trains had all been obliged
to stop at a certain spot between Padua and Ponte di Brenta, and the passengers, with their
luggage, had thence to be transported in all kinds of vehicles, by a circuitous country road,
to the nearest station on the other side of the gap, where another train and engine awaited
them. This, of course, caused great confusion and annoyance, put all our time-tables wrong,
and subjected the public to a large amount of inconvenience.  In the meanwhile an army of navvies
was drafted to the spot, and worked day and night to repair the damage.  At this time I was
driving two through trains each day; namely, one from Mantua to Venice in the early morning,
and a return train from Venice to Mantua in the afternoon—a tolerably full day’s work, covering
about one hundred and ninety miles of ground, and occupying between ten and eleven hours. 
I was therefore not best pleased when, on the third or fourth day after the accident, I was
informed that, in addition to my regular allowance of work, I should that evening be required
to drive a special train to Venice.  This special train, consisting of an engine, a single
carriage, and a break-van, was to leave the Mantua platform at eleven; at Padua the passengers
were to alight and find post-chaises waiting to convey them to Ponte di Brenta; at Ponte di
Brenta another engine, carriage, and break-van were to be in readiness.  I was charged to accompany
them throughout.

“Corpo di Bacco,” said the clerk who gave me my orders, “you need not look so black, man. 
You are certain of a handsome gratuity. Or rather, I know it already. I need your's not to say! "

But they did not sit down, they came up to me. "Think you have, John, as you once the Buhz
niederschosset with your bow? The present occasion does not need, although he again whether
the nest is lurking, because I'm not a bird, which can rip from him.

But, John - I have a blood friend - help me to resist!

"Ye think your brother, Catherine!"

- "I have no other .-- The man, whom I have hate, he wants to give me to wife While! our father's
sick bed a long time I have fought the disgraceful fight with him,
and only in his coffin I've wrested him that I may grieve in peace
to the Father, but I white, know that she is not stopped.

"

I thought of a Stiftsfraeuleins to Preetz, Mr Gerhardus' only sibling, and supposing that the
was not for protection and refuge to address.

Catherine nodded. "Will you be my messenger, John - I wrote it already, but in Wulf's hands came
the reply, and I have learned not only the outbreak Fury of my brother, which would itself be
fulfilled the ear of the dying, if it is still open would have been for the sound of the world,
but the good God had been the beloved head with the last earthly slumber zugedecket. "

Catherine had now but at my request, I gesetzet compared, and I began the outline on the canvas
to draw. So we came to a quiet deliberation, and as I do when the work more advanced, to Hamburg had
to order them from the wood carvers a framework we note Stellet that I then the detour Preetz
and thus avail themselves of my message hosted. First, however, was
busily to promoters to the plant.

It is very often a strange shadows
in the hearts of men. The squire had to know already, I stood on his
sister, however - it was now his pride, to appreciate me low, or he
did with his first threat geschrecket me enough - what I besorget
met not, Catherine and I were on the first ungestoeret like the other
days of it.

“Suppose you did nothing of the kind.  Suppose, instead of turning off the steam, you jump
off the engine, and let the train run on?”

“Impossible.  There are seventy yards of embankment gone, and—”

“Basta!  I know that.  Save yourself, and let the train run on.  It would be nothing but an
accident.”

I turned hot and cold; I trembled; my heart beat fast, and my breath failed.

“Why do you tempt me?” I faltered.

“For Italy’s sake,” he whispered; “for liberty’s sake.  I know you are no Italian; but, for
all that, you may be a friend.  This Loredano is one of his country’s bitterest enemies.  Stay,
here are the two thousand florins.”

I thrust his hand back fiercely.

“No—no,” I said.  “No blood-money.  If I do it, I do it neither for Italy nor for money; but
for vengeance.”

“For vengeance!” he repeated.

At this moment the signal was given for backing up to the platform.  I sprang to my place upon
the engine without another word.  When I again looked towards the spot where he had been standing,
the stranger was gone.

I saw them take their places—Duke and Duchess, secretary and priest, valet and maid.  I saw
the station-master bow them into the carriage, and stand, bareheaded, beside the door.  I could
not distinguish their faces; the platform was too dusk, and the glare from the engine fire
too strong; but I recognised her stately figure, and the poise of her head.  Had I not been
told who she was, I should have known her by those traits alone. Then the guard’s whistle shrilled
out, and the station-master made his last bow; I turned the steam on; and we started.

My blood was on fire.  I no longer trembled or hesitated.  I felt as if every nerve was iron,
and every pulse instinct with deadly purpose.  She was in my power, and I would be revenged.
She should die—she, for whom I had stained my soul with my friend’s blood!  She should die,
in the plenitude of her wealth and her beauty, and no power upon earth should save her!

The stations flew past.  I put on more steam; I bade the fireman heap in the coke, and stir
the blazing mass.  I would have outstripped the wind, had it been possible. 

6. Of these (opportunities) is now having (the victim) the act intended only but not to perform,
the quality grade. Because this is something and nothing Abscheuerweckendes Tragic in itself, but
it lacks the sad fact.  Faster and faster, till the fireman at my side looks white and scared, and refuses to
add more fuel to the furnace. Faster and faster, till the wind rushes in our faces and drives
the breath back upon our lips.

I would have scorned to save myself.  I meant to die with the rest.  Mad as I was—and I believe
from my very soul that I was utterly mad for the time—I felt a passing pang of pity for the
old man and his suite. 

But New from down the garden, the howling came up again, they drove up frightened. "The dogs,
John!" she cried. "What's with the dogs?"

"Catherine," I said, "if I am to serve you, I think it must happen soon, because it lacks much
that I should once again enter through the door in this house. "This I had pulled the letter
out of my Taeschlein and tell it well, as I did in Kruge down below
with the Junkers had fallen in battle.

There was a third man—a third man standing on my right hand, as the fireman was standing on
my left—a tall, stalwart man, with short curling hair, and a flat Scotch cap upon his head.
As I fell back in the first shock of surprise, he stepped nearer; took my place at the engine,
and turned the steam off. If I still have those concerns be dropped, so did this is mainly
from the following reasons. That drawback appeared to be not that serious, critical because such discussions
have philological reader to the necessary presupposition.

                                * * * * *

I am prepared for the objections that may be made to my story.  I expect, as a matter of course,
to be told that this was an optical illusion, or that I was suffering from pressure on the
brain, or even that I laboured under an attack of temporary insanity. I stood firmly like magic before
her, so sweet and yet so completely alien to my own seemed to me, and drank only my eyes his fill
of all the beauty. raised only when a sigh her breast, I said to her: "Catherine, my Catherine,
dreameth you then?"  All that I can say—all that
I know is—that Matthew Price came back from the dead to save my soul and the lives of those
whom I, in my guilty rage, would have hurried to destruction.  I believe this as I believe
in the mercy of Heaven and the forgiveness of repentant sinners.

                                 THE END

