BETTY ZANE BY ZANE GREY

TO THE BETTY ZANE CHAPTER OF THE DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION THIS BOOK IS RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED
BY THE AUTHOR

NOTE

In a quiet corner of the stately little city of Wheeling, West Va., stands a monument on which
is inscribed:

"By authority of the State of West Virginia to commemorate the siege of Fort Henry, Sept 11,
1782, the last battle of the American Revolution, this tablet is here placed."

Had it not been for the heroism of a girl the foregoing inscription would never have been written,
and the city of Wheeling would never have existed. From time to time I have read short stories
and magazine articles which have been published about Elizabeth Zane and her famous exploit;
but they are unreliable in some particulars, which is owing, no doubt, to the singularly meagre
details available in histories of our western border.

For a hundred years the stories of Betty and Isaac Zane have been familiar, oft-repeated tales
in my family--tales told with that pardonable ancestral pride which seems inherent in every
one. My grandmother loved to cluster the children round her and tell them that when she was
a little girl she had knelt at the feet of Betty Zane, and listened to the old lady as she
told of her brother's capture by the Indian Princess, of the burning of the Fort, and of her
own race for life. I knew these stories by heart when a child.

Two years ago my mother came to me with an old note book which had been discovered in some
rubbish that had been placed in the yard to burn. The book had probably been hidden in an old
picture frame for many years. It belonged to my great-grandfather, Col. Ebenezer Zane. From
its faded and time-worn pages I have taken the main facts of my story. My regret is that a
worthier pen than mine has not had this wealth of material.

In this busy progressive age there are no heroes of the kind so dear to all lovers of chivalry
and romance. There are heroes, perhaps, but they are the patient sad-faced kind, of whom few
take cognizance as they hurry onward. But cannot we all remember some one who suffered greatly,
who accomplished great deeds, who died on the battlefield--some one around whose name lingers
a halo of glory? Few of us are so unfortunate that we cannot look backward on kith or kin and
thrill with love and reverence as we dream of an act of heroism or martyrdom which rings down
the annals of time like the melody of the huntsman's horn, as it peals out on a frosty October
morn purer and sweeter with each succeeding note.

If to any of those who have such remembrances, as well as those who have not, my story gives
an hour of pleasure I shall be rewarded.

PROLOGUE

On June 16, 1716, Alexander Spotswood, Governor of the Colony of Virginia, and a gallant soldier
who had served under Marlborough in the English wars, rode, at the head of a dauntless band
of cavaliers, down the quiet street of quaint old Williamsburg.

The adventurous spirits of this party of men urged them toward the land of the setting sun,
that unknown west far beyond the blue crested mountains rising so grandly before them.

Months afterward they stood on the western range of the Great North mountains towering above
the picturesque Shenandoah Valley, and from the summit of one of the loftiest peaks, where,
until then, the foot of a white man had never trod, they viewed the vast expanse of plain and
forest with glistening eyes. Returning to Williamsburg they told of the wonderful richness
of the newly discovered country and thus opened the way for the venturesome pioneer who was
destined to overcome all difficulties and make a home in the western world.

But fifty years and more passed before a white man penetrated far beyond the purple spires
of those majestic mountains.

One bright morning in June, 1769, the figure of a stalwart, broad shouldered man could have
been seen standing on the wild and rugged promontory which rears its rocky bluff high above
the Ohio river, at a point near the mouth of Wheeling Creek. He was alone save for the companionship
of a deerhound that crouched at his feet. As he leaned on a long rifle, contemplating the glorious
scene that stretched before him, a smile flashed across his bronzed cheek, and his heart bounded
as he forecast the future of that spot. In the river below him lay an island so round and green
that it resembled a huge lily pad floating placidly on the water. The fresh green foliage of
the trees sparkled with glittering dewdrops. Back of him rose the high ridges, and, in front,
as far as eye could reach, extended an unbroken forest.

Beneath him to the left and across a deep ravine he saw a wide level clearing. The few scattered
and blackened tree stumps showed the ravages made by a forest fire in the years gone by. The
field was now overgrown with hazel and laurel bushes, and intermingling with them were the
trailing arbutus, the honeysuckle, and the wild rose. A fragrant perfume was wafted upward
to him. A rushing creek bordered one edge of the clearing. Blessed and praised be His
divine will, even that with which we are overwhelmed and beleaguered humanity! As yet I was
strictly old and I felt strong, and in these narrows and roughness of the soil abundant grass
and comfort were the short ambitions of my mind, I learned to drag bravely the cross of my
pains, and I even managed to forget, time walk, that had in tow, come on, I became a burden, and
came to be men of good content and attached to the motherland as the ivy to morio. From time
to time we wrote my brother and I, and thus did he know my fortunes and misfortunes, I'm your
birth and your sister, then this marriage of a rich American who took their land, the death
of your mother and the paths that wouldst with books from the classroom, and making it as
going esponjándote man.

"Once your card at fault gave more than usual, which was very little, and the first I had at the
end of the month was yours and tell me that your father had died of a sunstroke bitter, or something
of this art. Absent your sister and full of family and property in the other band, were left alone
in here, and aticuenta in the world, although the means of fortune to brace it at your leisure.
Like me, except the comparison of people and places. I offered with this mine, suspicious
lot, truth be told, that I wanted the stake, done with all my heart, because conjecture your
way of life and knew your picture by Pictures I'd been sending. Neither the one nor the other
was rigged well poverty and rustiquez of these parts, it seemed to me. And it would not seem
out of the way, because that was your answer, well rooted out its niceties and courtesies. Since
then was pears for pound the letters between us. You run the mint and Mecca, and I grabbed
firm these rocky hills, as montuna fence. And so we've been pulling so beautiful: you not remember
twice a year the saint of my name and I no hurry for it something more, because while I had health,
I joy, and in light of how well she was accompanied by live among these people and these cliffs
and even their beasts, and I seemed to see and feel them strength, flesh from my bones and blood
of my own veins.


They at length climbed the commanding bluff overlooking the majestic river, and as they gazed
out on the undulating and uninterrupted area of green, their hearts beat high with hope.

The keen axe, wielded by strong arms, soon opened the clearing and reared stout log cabins
on the river bluff. Then Ebenezer Zane and his followers moved their families and soon the
settlement began to grow and flourish. As the little village commenced to prosper the redmen
became troublesome. Settlers were shot while plowing the fields or gathering the harvests.
Bands of hostile Indians prowled around and made it dangerous for anyone to leave the clearing.
Frequently the first person to appear in the early morning would be shot at by an Indian concealed
in the woods.

General George Rodgers Clark, commandant of the Western Military Department, arrived at the
village in 1774. As an attack from the savages was apprehended during the year the settlers
determined to erect a fort as a defense for the infant settlement. It was planned by General
Clark and built by the people themselves. At first they called it Fort Fincastle, in honor
of Lord Dunmore, who, at the time of its erection, was Governor of the Colony of Virginia.
In 1776 its name was changed to Fort Henry, in honor of Patrick Henry.

For many years it remained the most famous fort on the frontier, having withstood numberless
Indian attacks and two memorable sieges, one in 1777, which year is called the year of the
"Bloody Sevens," and again in 1782. In this last siege the British Rangers under Hamilton took
part with the Indians, making the attack practically the last battle of the Revolution.

BETTY ZANE

CHAPTER I.

The Zane family was a remarkable one in early days, and most of its members are historical
characters.

The first Zane of whom any trace can be found was a Dane of aristocratic lineage, who was exiled
from his country and came to America with William Penn. He was prominent for several years
in the new settlement founded by Penn, and Zane street, Philadelphia, bears his name. Being
a proud and arrogant man, he soon became obnoxious to his Quaker brethren. He therefore cut
loose from them and emigrated to Virginia, settling on the Potomac river, in what was then
known as Berkeley county. There his five sons, and one daughter, the heroine of this story,
were born.

Ebenezer Zane, the eldest, was born October 7, 1747, and grew to manhood in the Potomac valley.
There he married Elizabeth McColloch, a sister of the famous McColloch brothers so well known
in frontier history.

Ebenezer was fortunate in having such a wife and no pioneer could have been better blessed.
She was not only a handsome woman, but one of remarkable force of character as well as kindness
of heart. She was particularly noted for a rare skill in the treatment of illness, and her
deftness in handling the surgeon's knife and extracting a poisoned bullet or arrow from a wound
had restored to health many a settler when all had despaired.

The Zane brothers were best known on the border for their athletic prowess, and for their knowledge
of Indian warfare and cunning. They were all powerful men, exceedingly active and as fleet
as deer. In appearance they were singularly pleasing and bore a marked resemblance to one another,
all having smooth faces, clear cut, regular features, dark eyes and long black hair.

When they were as yet boys they had been captured by Indians, soon after their arrival on the
Virginia border, and had been taken far into the interior, and held as captives for two years.
Ebenezer, Silas, and Jonathan Zane were then taken to Detroit and ransomed. While attempting
to swim the Scioto river in an effort to escape, Andrew Zane had been shot and killed by his
pursuers.

But the bonds that held Isaac Zane, the remaining and youngest brother, were stronger than
those of interest or revenge such as had caused the captivity of his brothers. He was loved
by an Indian princess, the daughter of Tarhe, the chief of the puissant Huron race. Isaac had
escaped on various occasions, but had always been retaken, and at the time of the opening of
our story nothing had been heard of him for several years, and it was believed he had been killed.

At the period of the settling of the little colony in the wilderness, Elizabeth Zane, the only
sister, was living with an aunt in Philadelphia, where she was being educated.

Colonel Zane's house, a two story structure built of rough hewn logs, was the most comfortable
one in the settlement, and occupied a prominent site on the hillside about one hundred yards
from the fort. It was constructed of heavy timber and presented rather a forbidding appearance
with its square corners, its ominous looking portholes, and strongly barred doors and windows.
There were three rooms on the ground floor, a kitchen, a magazine room for military supplies,
and a large room for general use. The several sleeping rooms were on the second floor, which
was reached by a steep stairway.

The interior of a pioneer's rude dwelling did not reveal, as a rule, more than bare walls,
a bed or two, a table and a few chairs--in fact, no more than the necessities of life. But
Colonel Zane's house proved an exception to this. Most interesting was the large room. The
chinks between the logs had been plastered up with clay and then the walls covered with white
birch bark; trophies of the chase, Indian bows and arrows, pipes and tomahawks hung upon them;
the wide spreading antlers of a noble buck adorned the space above the mantel piece; buffalo
robes covered the couches; bearskin rugs lay scattered about on the hardwood floor. The wall
on the western side had been built over a huge stone, into which had been cut an open fireplace.

This blackened recess, which had seen two houses burned over it, when full of blazing logs
had cheered many noted men with its warmth. Lord Dunmore, General Clark, Simon Kenton, and
Daniel Boone had sat beside that fire. There Cornplanter, the Seneca chief, had made his famous
deal with Colonel Zane, trading the island in the river opposite the settlement for a barrel
of whiskey. Logan, the Mingo chief and friend of the whites, had smoked many pipes of peace
there with Colonel Zane. At a later period, when King Louis Phillippe, who had been exiled
from France by Napoleon, had come to America, during the course of his melancholy wanderings
he had stopped at Fort Henry a few days. His stay there was marked by a fierce blizzard and
the royal guest passed most of his time at Colonel Zane's fireside. Musing by those roaring
logs perhaps he saw the radiant star of the Man of Destiny rise to its magnificent zenith.

One cold, raw night in early spring the Colonel had just returned from one of his hunting trips
and the tramping of horses mingled with the rough voices of the negro slaves sounded without.
When Colonel Zane entered the house he was greeted affectionately by his wife and sister. The
latter, at the death of her aunt in Philadelphia, had come west to live with her brother, and
had been there since late in the preceding autumn. It was a welcome sight for the eyes of a
tired and weary hunter. The tender kiss of his comely wife, the cries of the delighted children,
and the crackling of the fire warmed his heart and made him feel how good it was to be home
again after a three days' march in the woods. Placing his rifle in a corner and throwing aside
his wet hunting coat, he turned and stood with his back to the bright blaze. Still young and
vigorous, Colonel Zane was a handsome man. Tall, though not heavy, his frame denoted great
strength and endurance. His face was smooth, his heavy eyebrows met in a straight line; his
eyes were dark and now beamed with a kindly light; his jaw was square and massive; his mouth
resolute; in fact, his whole face was strikingly expressive of courage and geniality. A great
wolf dog had followed him in and, tired from travel, had stretched himself out before the fireplace,
laying his noble head on the paws he had extended toward the warm blaze.

"Well! Well! I am nearly starved and mighty glad to get back," said the Colonel, with a smile
of satisfaction at the steaming dishes a negro servant was bringing from the kitchen.

"We are glad you have returned," answered his wife, whose glowing face testified to the pleasure
she felt. "Supper is ready--Annie, bring in some cream--yes, indeed, I am happy that you are
home. I never have a moment's peace when you are away, especially when you are accompanied
by Lewis Wetzel."

"Our hunt was a failure," said the Colonel, after he had helped himself to a plate full of
roast wild turkey. "The bears have just come out of their winter's sleep and are unusually
wary at this time. We saw many signs of their work, tearing rotten logs to pieces in search
of grubs and bees' nests. Wetzel killed a deer and we baited a likely place where we had discovered
many bear tracks. We stayed up all night in a drizzling rain, hoping to get a shot. I am tired
out. So is Tige. Wetzel did not mind the weather or the ill luck, and when we ran across some
Indian sign he went off on one of his lonely tramps, leaving me to come home alone."

"He is such a reckless man," remarked Mrs. Zane.

"Wetzel is reckless, or rather, daring. His incomparable nerve carries him safely through many
dangers, where an ordinary man would have no show whatever. Well, Betty, how are you?"

"Quite well," said the slender, dark-eyed girl who had just taken the seat opposite the Colonel.

"Bessie, has my sister indulged in any shocking escapade in my absence? I think that last trick
of hers, when she gave a bucket of hard cider to that poor tame bear, should last her a spell."

"No, for a wonder Elizabeth has been very good. However, I do not attribute it to any unusual
change of temperament; simply the cold, wet weather. I anticipate a catastrophe very shortly
if she is kept indoors much longer."

"I have not had much opportunity to be anything but well behaved. If it rains a few days more
I shall become desperate. I want to ride my pony, roam the woods, paddle my canoe, and enjoy
myself," said Elizabeth.

"Well! Well! Betts, I knew it would be dull here for you, but you must not get discouraged.
You know you got here late last fall, and have not had any pleasant weather yet. It is perfectly
delightful in May and June. I can take you to fields of wild white honeysuckle and May flowers
and wild roses. I know you love the woods, so be patient a little longer."

Elizabeth had been spoiled by her brothers--what girl would not have been by five great big
worshippers?--and any trivial thing gone wrong with her was a serious matter to them. They
were proud of her, and of her beauty and accomplishments were never tired of talking. She had
the dark hair and eyes so characteristic of the Zanes; the same oval face and fine features:
and added to this was a certain softness of contour and a sweetness of expression which made
her face bewitching. But, in spite of that demure and innocent face, she possessed a decided
will of her own, and one very apt to be asserted; she was mischievous; inclined to coquettishness,
and more terrible than all she had a fiery temper which could be aroused with the most surprising
ease.

Colonel Zane was wont to say that his sister's accomplishments were innumerable. After only
a few months on the border she could prepare the flax and weave a linsey dresscloth with admirable
skill. Sometimes to humor Betty the Colonel's wife would allow her to get the dinner, and she
would do it in a manner that pleased her brothers, and called forth golden praises from the
cook, old Sam's wife who had been with the family twenty years. Betty sang in the little church
on Sundays; she organized and taught a Sunday school class; she often beat Colonel Zane and
Major McColloch at their favorite game of checkers, which they had played together since they
were knee high; in fact, Betty did nearly everything well, from baking pies to painting the
birch bark walls of her room. But these things were insignificant in Colonel Zane's eyes. If
the Colonel were ever guilty of bragging it was about his sister's ability in those acquirements
demanding a true eye, a fleet foot, a strong arm and a daring spirit. He had told all the people
in the settlement, to many of whom Betty was unknown, that she could ride like an Indian and
shoot with undoubted skill; that she had a generous share of the Zanes' fleetness of foot,
and that she would send a canoe over as bad a place as she could find. The boasts of the Colonel
remained as yet unproven, but, be that as it may, Betty had, notwithstanding her many faults,
endeared herself to all. She made sunshine and happiness everywhere; the old people loved her;
the children adored her, and the broad shouldered, heavy footed young settlers were shy and
silent, yet blissfully happy in her presence.

"Betty, will you fill my pipe?" asked the Colonel, when he had finished his supper and had
pulled his big chair nearer the fire. His oldest child, Noah, a sturdy lad of six, climbed
upon his knee and plied him with questions.

"Did you see any bars and bufflers?" he asked, his eyes large and round.

"No, my lad, not one."

"How long will it be until I am big enough to go?"

"Not for a very long time, Noah."

"But I am not afraid of Betty's bar. He growls at me when I throw sticks at him, and snaps
his teeth. Can I go with you next time?"

"My brother came over from Short Creek to-day. He has been to Fort Pitt," interposed Mrs. Zane.
As she was speaking a tap sounded on the door, which, being opened by Betty, disclosed Captain
Boggs his daughter Lydia, and Major Samuel McColloch, the brother of Mrs. Zane.

"Ah, Colonel! I expected to find you at home to-night. The weather has been miserable for hunting
and it is not getting any better. The wind is blowing from the northwest and a storm is coming,"
said Captain Boggs, a fine, soldierly looking man.

"Hello, Captain! How are you? Sam, I have not had the pleasure of seeing you for a long time,"
replied Colonel Zane, as he shook hands with his guests.

Major McColloch was the eldest of the brothers of that name. As an Indian killer he ranked
next to the intrepid Wetzel; but while Wetzel preferred to take his chances alone and track
the Indians through the untrodden wilds, McColloch was a leader of expeditions against the
savages. A giant in stature, massive in build, bronzed and bearded, he looked the typical frontiersman.
His blue eyes were like those of his sister and his voice had the same pleasant ring.

"Major McColloch, do you remember me?" asked Betty.

"Indeed I do," he answered, with a smile. "You were a little girl, running wild, on the Potomac
when I last saw you!"

"Do you remember when you used to lift me on your horse and give me lessons in riding?"

"I remember better than you. How you used to stick on the back of that horse was a mystery to me."

"Well, I shall be ready soon to go on with those lessons in riding. I have heard of your wonderful
leap over the hill and I should like to have you tell me all about it. Of all the stories I
have heard since I arrived at Fort Henry, the one of your ride and leap for life is the most
wonderful."

"Yes, Sam, she will bother you to death about that ride, and will try to give you lessons in
leaping down precipices. I should not be at all surprised to find her trying to duplicate your
feat. His
mule, exhausted, paused at the door, and the Indian landlord met him.

Come along to the traveler, spoke, touched it and turning around,
said simply D. Salvador:

- Poor D. John, is deceased!

Later, in Peru, I was able to verify the accuracy of the account of D. Salvador. Until long ago,
were on the roads inside the funeral some mules carrying loads. The fingerprint is unique,
the mule up to his will, there was no other means of transport, and the Indian monarchy during
the Inca lived and died on the same piece of land, as the servant
feudal, always in charge, by tradition, their race, which in case
of death, they confide to his faithful mule, who would sit among his
people.

D. Salvador again saddled his mule and started without delay. Since then, ever makes efforts
to reach those travelers who will precede the land routes.

I stopped a moment to lunch at Consuelo, I saw the famous room in which we last night to come,
with Mounsey and the large and diverse company of which I spoke. In the same place, the table at whose
feet had been tied the Panamanian Cock your nail invariably espadrille no less renowned, instrument
of torture of crickets and cicadas. Oh vanity human identical at the top of the desert hills of
America as at the top of the bell Italy! In Consuelo came to me ... An album! to be reported
as a memory or least leave my name. There were six-page compositions. For what it costs a Colombian
verses do once you have the pen in hand! That certainly was not a manual Selected pieces, and
more than a dithyramb to the Mountain, or the Magdalena, the spelling
was covered face in its abandonment, when it was common sense ...
But the owner of Consuelo not fixed in such trifles, has his album
and that was enough.

The path between Consuelo and wineries as hard as I was the worst of the climb. The heat was stifling,
and the sun shining unbearable, I remembered the cry of that official poor prisoner who walked
for three days tied to a mule and that at a time desperate looked at the sun and indefinable
accent said: Looks like Wise up! Something was, surely, the hidden hand that fed the lamps of heaven,
because, as I walked away from him as he descended, redoubled its penetrating power. It is possible
to form idea of ​​such heat without having suffered, the rocks appear swollen, red earth heats the air
that burns your face, it irritates the eyes, disturbs the brain. It feels a desperate thirst
nothing soothes, and advances, progress is looking at the Magdalene at the feet, almost within
hand, move away indefinitely from the twists and turns of the road. My horse could not go,
the speed of the march and the stifling atmosphere of exhaustion. Finally, at three in the afternoon,
destroyed, came to one of the shacks of Wine, I dropped, leaving the beast to its fate and I asked
for water, more water. The general store forced me to make brown sugar, I thought, first and last
time, a delicious drink. In front of me, his face red as a poppy with eyes raised, was an Englishwoman,
something like a nurse or a family servant English Bogotá, locked in conversation with me immediately,
and though I, annoyed, irritated at that moment, did not answer a word, found means to tell me
he had done it alone all the way from Bogota to Wine because, as the laborers that accompanied
it caused more apprehension confidence, gave them money for them to go to drink liquor or cane
juice in all the liquor store on the route, where outcome was that lay on the road.

A well rested, I went to the riverbank to see what had vapors, do you know what was my first
meeting? My one-eyed sparrow, sitting sadly on a rock, with my suitcase plywood to the back,
in the sun and delivered to the peaceful task of ducklings in water
with pebbles carefully chosen.

Oh, holy patience! You make men climb the rugged path of life you apart the obstacle, the closer
you succeed, you hold in the fight and make fruitful the victory,
you comforted in the fall ... And you save the life of the savanna
wrongs that make the shores of ducklings mighty rivers!

"Now, you can depend on what I say. There are Wyandots in force on the war path. Wetzel told
me to dig for the Fort and he left me in a hurry. We were near that cranberry bog over at the
foot of Bald mountain. I do not believe we shall be attacked. In my opinion the Indians would
come up from the west and keep to the high ridges along Yellow creek. They always come that
way. But of course, it is best to know surely, and I daresay Lew will come in to-night or to-morrow
with the facts. In the meantime put out some scouts back in the woods and let Jonathan and
the Major watch the river."

"I hope Wetzel will come in," said the Major. "We can trust him to know more about the Indians
than any one. It was a week before you and he went hunting that I saw him. I went to Fort Pitt
and tried to bring over some men, but the garrison is short and they need men as much as we
do. A young soldier named Clarke volunteered to come and I brought him along with me. He has
not seen any Indian fighting, but he is a likely looking chap, and I guess will do. Captain
Boggs will give him a place in the block house if you say so."

"By all means. We shall be glad to have him," said Colonel Zane.

"It would not be so serious if I had not sent the men up the river," said Captain Boggs, in
anxious tones. "Do you think it possible they might have fallen in with the Indians?"

"It is possible, of course, but not probable," answered Colonel Zane. "The Indians are all
across the Ohio. Wetzel is over there and he will get here long before they do."

"I hope it may be as you say. I have much confidence in your judgment," returned Captain Boggs.
"I shall put out scouts and take all the precaution possible. We must return now. Come, Lydia."

"Whew! What an awful night this is going to be," said Colonel Zane, when he had closed the
door after his guests' departure. "I should not care to sleep out to-night."

"Eb, what will Lew Wetzel do on a night like this?" asked Betty, curiously.

"Oh, Lew will be as snug as a rabbit in his burrow," said Colonel Zane, laughing. "In a few
moments he can build a birch bark shack, start a fire inside and go to sleep comfortably."

"Ebenezer, what is all this confab about? What did my brother tell you?" asked Mrs. Zane, anxiously.

"We are in for more trouble from the Wyandots and Shawnees. But, Bessie, I don't believe it
will come soon. We are too well protected here for anything but a protracted siege."

Colonel Zane's light and rather evasive answer did not deceive his wife. She knew her brother
and her husband would not wear anxious faces for nothing. Her usually bright face clouded with
a look of distress. She had seen enough of Indian warfare to make her shudder with horror at
the mere thought. Betty seemed unconcerned. She sat down beside the dog and patted him on the head.

"Tige, Indians! Indians!" she said.

The dog growled and showed his teeth. It was only necessary to mention Indians to arouse his ire.

"The dog has been uneasy of late," continued Colonel Zane "He found the Indian tracks before
Wetzel did. You know how Tige hates Indians. Ever since he came home with Isaac four years
ago he has been of great service to the scouts, as he possesses so much intelligence and sagacity.
Tige followed Isaac home the last time he escaped from the Wyandots. When Isaac was in captivity
he nursed and cared for the dog after he had been brutally beaten by the redskins. Have you
ever heard that long mournful howl Tige gives out sometimes in the dead of night?"

"Yes I have, and it makes me cover up my head," said Betty.

"Well, it is Tige mourning for Isaac," said Colonel Zane

"Poor Isaac," murmured Betty.

"Do you remember him? It has been nine years since you saw him," said Mrs. Zane.

"Remember Isaac? Indeed I do. I shall never forget him. I wonder if he is still living?"

"Probably not. It is now four years since he was recaptured. I think it would have been impossible
to keep him that length of time, unless, of course, he has married that Indian girl. The simplicity
of the Indian nature is remarkable. He could easily have deceived them and made them believe
he was content in captivity. Probably, in attempting to escape again, he has been killed as
was poor Andrew."

Brother and sister gazed with dark, sad eyes into the fire, now burned down to a glowing bed
of coals. The silence remained unbroken save for the moan of the rising wind outside, the rattle
of hail, and the patter of rain drops on the roof.

CHAPTER II.

Fort Henry stood on a bluff overlooking the river and commanded a fine view of the surrounding
country. In shape it was a parallelogram, being about three hundred and fifty-six feet in length,
and one hundred and fifty in width. Surrounded by a stockade fence twelve feet high, with a
yard wide walk running around the inside, and with bastions at each corner large enough to
contain six defenders, the fort presented an almost impregnable defense. The blockhouse was
two stories in height, the second story projecting out several feet over the first. The thick
white oak walls bristled with portholes. Besides the blockhouse, there were a number of cabins
located within the stockade. Wells had been sunk inside the inclosure, so that if the spring
happened to go dry, an abundance of good water could be had at all times.

In all the histories of frontier life mention is made of the forts and the protection they
offered in time of savage warfare. These forts were used as homes for the settlers, who often
lived for weeks inside the walls.

Forts constructed entirely of wood without the aid of a nail or spike (for the good reason
that these things could not be had) may seem insignificant in these days of great nasal and
military garrisons. However, they answered the purpose at that time and served to protect many
an infant settlement from the savage attacks of Indian tribes. During a siege of Fort Henry,
which had occurred about a year previous, the settlers would have lost scarcely a man had they
kept to the fort. But Captain Ogle, at that time in charge of the garrison, had led a company
out in search of the Indians. Nearly all of his men were killed, several only making their
way to the fort.

On the day following Major McColloch's arrival at Fort Henry, the settlers had been called
in from their spring plowing and other labors, and were now busily engaged in moving their
stock and the things they wished to save from the destructive torch of the redskin. The women
had their hands full with the children, the cleaning of rifles and moulding of bullets, and
the thousand and one things the sterner tasks of their husbands had left them. Major McColloch,
Jonathan and Silas Zane, early in the day, had taken different directions along the river to
keep a sharp lookout for signs of the enemy. Colonel Zane intended to stay in his oven house
and defend it, so he had not moved anything to the fort excepting his horses and cattle. Old
Sam, the negro, was hauling loads of hay inside the stockade. Captain Boggs had detailed several
scouts to watch the roads and one of these was the young man, Clarke, who had accompanied the
Major from Fort Pitt.

The appearance of Alfred Clarke, despite the fact that he wore the regulation hunting garb,
indicated a young man to whom the hard work and privation of the settler were unaccustomed
things. So thought the pioneers who noticed his graceful walk, his fair skin and smooth hands.
Yet those who carefully studied his clearcut features were favorably impressed; the women,
by the direct, honest gaze of his blue eyes and the absence of ungentle lines in his face;
the men, by the good nature, and that indefinable something by which a man marks another as
true steel.

He brought nothing with him from Fort Pitt except his horse, a black-coated, fine limbed thoroughbred,
which he frankly confessed was all he could call his own. When asking Colonel Zane to give
him a position in the garrison he said he was a Virginian and had been educated in Philadelphia;
that after his father died his mother married again, and this, together with a natural love
of adventure, had induced him to run away and seek his fortune with the hardy pioneer and the
cunning savage of the border. Beyond a few months' service under General Clark he knew nothing
of frontier life; but he was tired of idleness; he was strong and not afraid of work, and he
could learn. Colonel Zane, who prided himself on his judgment of character, took a liking to
the young man at once, and giving him a rifle and accoutrements, told him the border needed
young men of pluck and fire, and that if he brought a strong hand and a willing heart he could
surely find fortune. Possibly if Alfred Clarke could have been told of the fate in store for
him he might have mounted his black steed and have placed miles between him and the frontier
village; but, as there were none to tell, he went cheerfully out to meet that fate.

On this is bright spring morning he patrolled the road leading along the edge of the clearing,
which was distant a quarter of a mile from the fort. He kept a keen eye on the opposite side
of the river, as he had been directed. From the upper end of the island, almost straight across
from where he stood, the river took a broad turn, which could not be observed from the fort
windows. The river was high from the recent rains and brush heaps and logs and debris of all
descriptions were floating down with the swift current. Rabbits and other small animals, which
had probably been surrounded on some island and compelled to take to the brush or drown, crouched
on floating logs and piles of driftwood. Happening to glance down the road, Clarke saw a horse
galloping in his direction. At first he thought it was a messenger for himself, but as it neared
him he saw that the horse was an Indian pony and the rider a young girl, whose long, black
hair was flying in the wind.

"Hello! I wonder what the deuce this is? Looks like an Indian girl," said Clarke to himself.
"She rides well, whoever she may be."

He stepped behind a clump of laurel bushes near the roadside and waited. Rapidly the horse
and rider approached him. When they were but a few paces distant he sprang out and, as the
pony shied and reared at sight of him, he clutched the bridle and pulled the pony's head down.
Looking up he encountered the astonished and bewildered gaze from a pair of the prettiest dark
eyes it had ever been his fortune, or misfortune, to look into.

Betty, for it was she, looked at the young man in amazement, while Alfred was even more surprised
and disconcerted. For a moment they looked at each other in silence. But Betty, who was scarcely
ever at a loss for words, presently found her voice.

"Well, sir! What does this mean?" she asked indignantly.

"It means that you must turn around and go back to the fort," answered Alfred, also recovering
himself.

Now Betty's favorite ride happened to be along this road. It lay along the top of the bluff
a mile or more and afforded a fine unobstructed view of the river. Betty had either not heard
of the Captain's order, that no one was to leave the fort, or she had disregarded it altogether;
probably the latter, as she generally did what suited her fancy.

"Release my pony's head!" she cried, her face flushing, as she gave a jerk to the reins. "How
dare you? What right have you to detain me?"

The expression Betty saw on Clarke's face was not new to her, for she remembered having seen
it on the faces of young gentlemen whom she had met at her aunt's house in Philadelphia. It
was the slight, provoking smile of the man familiar with the various moods of young women,
the expression of an amused contempt for their imperiousness. But it was not that which angered
Betty. It was the coolness with which he still held her pony regardless of her commands.

"Pray do not get excited," he said. "I am sorry I cannot allow such a pretty little girl to
have her own way. I shall hold your pony until you say you will go back to the fort."

"Sir!" exclaimed Betty, blushing a bright-red. "You--you are impertinent!"

"Not at all," answered Alfred, with a pleasant laugh. "I am sure I do not intend to be. 

Optional only the real power to grant temporary or permanent license to use of these fisheries, as seas
belonging to his dominions. Eyes open knowledge the great practical value of this trade, will attract
interest to their use. This is the fruit that can take the crown, not by the interests that rotates
Portugal, but by the survey and those populations most advanced Parages south she cares about
or interested. At that excels in the most useful, and we show port insurance for the shelter of
the boats, offering people, these costs compénsesele the granting of any privilege or license
to the fishery in the time it seems regular, formal contractual obligation and mortgages. Unansele
those graces which allows the real protection and sovereignty, and thus, without squandering
the royal purse, get the These wastes to useful Rey domains, preparing a means to attract true
knowledge many heathen souls occupy in the propagation of the faith and usefulness of State
and provide different benefits to navigation and trade.

While the Magellan Strait and islands of Fire is important to us a
true and accurate recognition by if you allow ports that provide us
passage to the South Sea, no be neglected the Gulf of San Jorge, which
is located at 45 degrees and minutes to look with the indifference
that so far.

The recognition that in March 1780 did the pilots of the expedition which came to control D. Antonio
Viedma, to set in San Julian, only recognized with the launch of
the packet boat San Sebastian, about 40 miles from the northern side,
pulling the west of the gulf.

For and news reports are from practical Indians their surroundings, ensuring that to this course
comes very close to the mountains, where some streams draining water sweet, and half the land to
them, is the way of the Indians of San Julian to Tucamelel river, or of the Incarnation. This
is evidenced by the daily recognition Villarino Black River, which relates the journey they
had just done to that river near those expressed Indians. If the English recognize and take
hold of the Gulf, would have input for him to Valdivia and other towns of the kingdom of Peru,
and he could easily be established without Our news. Abundant large number of whales, which place provides
the fishing greater advantages than others. These grounds, that to be true express their importance,
encourage stakeholders in the fishery to its recognition, we must disabuse, and give a true view
of the importance of the gulf, and communication that is feared. The fact is that the Indians
of those Parages transiting the Black River by the way you say, and from this river go to
the borders of Buenos Aires.

All of these utilities will attract to us the survival and development of the population of Rio
Black. She has to shake hands at the port of San José with its fruits and cattle, and as scale,
such aid must go to other towns, discovering the ways that pass the
Indians, their watery, campaigns and mountains to the Straits, because
of all there is news and has only missed the previous ministry, the
heat required in such cases, that in time the two Super-mayors have
been on their committees, have but recognized the principal of this
continent.

The internment of trade for Valdivia, Chile, Mendoza and other Parages by the Black River, would
be very useful for smaller gap compared to that of Buenos Aires, for the help of navigation, and because
they have other amenities that can make softer asperities the road.

The more enemies opposed the establishment of the Black Rio admit
the usefulness of this hospitalization, but are impossible, speaking
with such courage and security, as if they had measured inch by inch
on those roads, and had learned with a practical knowledge of navigation
River.

No need sugeto whom he should confess the justice of instruction and superior talent, that supports
and sustains the same impossibility, and they assure me it has become
clear in a paper that gave the government greater, the more steps
that I could not get.

Would be most useful These challenges were reciprocal and mutual knowledge of them: for the contentious
and rational opposition is the discovery of the truth which is that crave and seek those who
seek the wisdom. If so many opinions to be taken to give ground with the establishments, that is, to
deter the King and his Ministers of the importance of them, they
had first gone to the Super-intendant, to inform its view and respond,
then it would have had more news and knowledge that shed light the
whole truth.

For these reasons, the aforementioned request and feel like paper, they are matters should not be
booked as much mystery about sugetos they have earned the trust of King for the performance of
this important commission, mostly when it seems has run between people who have no connection with
these materials, which I notice those points most essential for this role, though confusing,
of which I will to meet and demonstrate As I proposed.

Two are the most powerful objections to this individual seems to show, in which supports and
maintains the grounds of their opposition. The first, which made navigation difficult Villarino
in recognition of Black River to the Catapuliché, where she arrived, she herself demonstrates
its irrelevance to trade. The second grade of impassable mountain ranges, from that place to
Valdivia.

For the same operations, expressed in log Villarino, this individual demonstrates the Black River
inaccessible in its navigation. If we would have to be to that point, at that station, to that
state in which they found and navigated the river Villarino, it is
necessary to confess futility, but this varies with the time difference,
and repeated tests over give a true view of the channels, reefs, waterfalls
and river flows, showing how to overcome them with other aid, seems
somehow strange that so vividly, without waiting for other than practical
knowledge, is useless to condemn and fail for a case that both interest
to our happiness.

Villarino navigation was made at the station opposite. The forty-five days we stopped at the Choelechel,
food waiting to be continued, we delayed the time, So when he arrived at the confluence with Diamond
makes the Black River, had fallen water, in terms that caused the
hardship of his voyage.

This lack discovered jumps and reefs, and their maturity was the greatest difficulty. If he
had come to this recognition for the month of July, which is the time that begin growing, and
last until March, would be less difficult and softer, not so many breaks were discovered and
reefs, and carcasses would not cause so vehement currents caused constriction of them, as with
most water extends the river and avoids the momentum of its effects. With the help of horses
or mules (that could not fend Villarino, the risks that were expected of the Indians, who are
the attractiveness of their invasions) was smoothed and facilitated navigation and throwing them
to the towpath, falling all the work of the sailors on the strength
and vigor of these animals, removing and opening the way for the banks
of the river to do useful these operations.

To take a true knowledge of all this, it is necessary that the different experiences seriousness
of the case he asks: We must not defer to the relationship of a hasty and obscure tentative,
which may be misleading for many reasons.

Discoverer is characteristic of all ponder the difficulties and work that has prevailed to to assert
their merit, and even without fail the sincerity and good faith, those first impressions in
humans often cause different looks in proportion to the affection in which he is caught. Would
not it strange that he and his Villarino, the loneliness of those spot, lack of communication,
and others perhaps, I produgesen an affection or passion hateful in his imagination soar to
lofty mountains of difficulty accessible hills or ravines.

When they discovered the Black River, the first pilot of the royal fleet, D. Manuel Brunel, and
infantry lieutenant D. Pedro Garcia, the San Antonio Zumaca Oliveyra, such was the impression
they caused the bar, which retreated to the port of San José, and
gave for impossible input.

Villarino was, and proved otherwise, and on the day it is so easy, windy the bow on board have
entered the launches. If we had been to the decision and inform sugetos those we would not have been
a disappointment so clear.

Black river navigation presents is not impossible, but difficult: it is fitting to all principles, since
the best facilities that we despise in the day, at its source would
cost hard work and maturity.

The time and the practical demonstration of the importance of this post and walk, subsisting
the establishment of the Black River, are to give light to start preparing and paving the horror,
much difficulty as it appears, extending its upstream populations, which will serve to your comfort
level, prepare more interest to trade; contain the audacity Indians
in insults and robberies that experience the frontiers of Buenos Aires,
will be more solid foundation on which to found their hopes of reducing
these infidels inhabitants of the vast and fertile lands that make
up the skirts of Huechuhuehuem and ranges, to Concepcion, Chile, whose
industries benefit operations wool, ponchos and blankets that make
the cultivation of agriculture in which we imitate, fixed population,
but widely dispersed from their homes, we offer the most extensive
and happy ideas for the exaltation of our holy faith, and prosperity
of the State and the day may come that imitation we laugh at these
apparent difficulties.

To meet the second objection, would need all of the evidence and rationale
it gives the author because the first acquired some news that I got
the diary Villarino was in navigation.

But this, if it is true that given by inaccessible mountains by those spot, I can not hit upon
them, because they do not have to draw from their vast comprehension, science and literature,
if not a disappointment in the physical, that can reason and be dealt with the most uncouth
rustic.

It is true that the ranges are inaccessible for many Parages. The Indians of San Julian answer,
that from the Straits, pulling the northern part, they are even for the brutes: noticed the
same Super-intendant D. Antonio de Viedma when he recognized the Santa Cruz River to its source
[A] but should not be understood with the rigor that the author thinks, because only the is
accessible by road we use for Mendoza to Chile. They are also passable from Huechuhuehuem, or
Catapuliché, on the Portillo, the Indians and cattle driving. The give evidence to this claim
is the standard reply of the Indian inhabitants of those spot, with
whom I have asked repeatedly prolixity, news of which went checking
with the findings of Villarino, and to be found near the river Diamond,
livestock cattle and horses that the Indians had stolen them from
the borders of Buenos Aires, to sell to Valdivia, where the consignment
had been offered a year earlier, and as for having reported these
infidels, when he came to Catapuliché, who had fallen Christian Valdivia,
as a day Road, where he was, to try and adjust the purchase of it,
giving individual signs of person [B].

All these tests are indeed his own: those of the author must be of ideas and references, which inequality
is evident in the faith of a justification which is supported so legally. But congratulations, I have
to grant equality, which do not: in this case, we should not have happened to Valdivia to examine
and verify those quotes that were a true testament of truth?

But what was it made? Differ by a whole to the authority of the author, as if the inaccessible
mountains, which was his imagination and discourse, were true.

Of course there is evidence advanced for and against the inaccessible and transit of ranges by
Catapuliché, Huechuhuehuem to Valdivia, we should be in favor of the latter, Unless a physical
disappointment sincere and true people do see the opposite. No we must know that nature gives
us two ways that I have proposed by water and by land to the plaza and the kingdom of Chile, at the
proper time for not only I can navigate as shown at the place where he Villarino, but the gap Huechum-lauquen,
or limit the source of the river, which is a more distant day's journey. From this site Valdivia
to throw the Indians three days by mule, by the harshness of the mountains, traffic very short,
compared to half that by Mendoza to Chile, crossing us less expenses and other amenities.

Since the establishment of Black River to the lagoon-lauquen Huechum land, its distance not even
reach 160 leagues to the top of Diamond to open way too comfortable
carts along the same river, which washes the largest livestock rescue
and relief.

A site can be conceptualized 120 leagues: from him at this gap 40, and from this to Valdivia 20,
so that the whole distance being 180 miles, the 120 is very smooth turnpike road and comfortable,
the 40 with time maybe you will in the same provisions, applicable to soften some missteps, and
the remaining 20 is the only bad thing is that travel. But this, as explained by Indians,
not those aviaries and cliffs to the Mendoza Chile. Compare, then, the increase of this from Buenos Aires,
which went from 500 leagues, painful and risky for the crossing of
the pampas, of water scarcity and Indians, with short soft and can
be opened by the Black River, and the safety of these infidels, taken
its main avenues and places, that is another issue that matters most
to the prosperity Buenos Aires, as I will show in place, expressed
through the populations.

I've talked to Promote the concept to what I discovered in the Black River to the Plaza de Valdivia;
regardless of the recognition of Diamond Rio, or Sanquel, which made observation Villarino the
pilot, at the confluence of this river with the Black, 38 degrees 44 minutes and other combinations
and news, there is reason to hope, has with the Tunuyan, which passes by the city of Mendoza, and to be certain
they discover equal proportions.

We arrived as the most important point, and that happiness lies across the province, this is
to repair the destruction caused by livestock in the vast Indian
campaigns and borders Buenos Aires, in book to those who disbelieve
so many deaths, robberies and captivity, to take advantage the vast
fields that mediate this capital Black River, where you can expand
and encouraged raising cattle, which must be one of the branches has
to sustain this facility and support of others.

The issues are very serious, but their happiness depends on a same cause, which is to restrain
the Indians.

News acquired by the recognition of the river that made Villarino, we found reports had been many
Indians, having no other way those of the nation Tehuelche Villiches, Puelches, and other inhabitants
of the Huechuhuehuem nations, near Valdivia é in the mountains, the site called the Choelechel,
to travel to Colorado mountains Window, Tandil, Volcano, Cashuatí, and frontiers of Buenos
Aires, for lack of watering the other spot, and be impassable terrain. The safety of these
particular news made me believe it spread to all nations of Indians, that cause us much harm,
and taking that step were sugetos. This concept encouraged me to repeat the request to Mr. Viceroy
to occupy and to ensure.

Later an Indian tried very cunning, and practices of those sites Vastis
called José Yati, who disabused me, informing me that the step was
respectively Choelechel Indian nations that I mentioned, but not all,
as I had two paths where they came, and penetrated: one fell to the
Salinas, where salt has provided Buenos Aires with the carts, and
is gone from the Indians Peguenches and Aucases, whose leader named
Guchulap, and the other farther north and not far from the city of
Córdoba, who attend those Ranqueles nation.

The reason for using different ways these nations, is the enmity that have a with others, and
be more immediate to their lands to become as common in traffic, had to go through those of
its neighbors.

The other two roads is a matter that deserves more attention in the day, because we have no knowledge
physicist of them, which does not occur with that of Choelechel: just talked on the news reports and
Indians, and you need a formal discovery to pull these lines Parages for their safety.

Even without the news of these important reasons, in office from July 31, 1781, I proposed to
Viceroy Lord how useful it was to be gaining knowledge of the Indian
nations inhabiting fields of Buenos Aires, its shelters and retreats,
where he began to secure, when they saw persecuted, or attacked us,
to which he had intended to try to the peons, Antonio Godoy and Juan
Jose Gonzales, with the pretext to go to their tents to buy cattle,
lead them brandy, beads, and grass, with whose gifts were being familiar
with some, and taking other news, the only way he could overcome these
difficulties.

Record showed equal he said His Excellency. Lord would be useful to practice from the borders
of Buenos Aires and his guards sugetos allocating adapted to the case, with whose knowledge was
easy with two expeditions come out of this capital and Black River contain and restrain.

This proposal was welcomed, and Godoy and Gonzales sent with letters to habiéndolos SE, and this
being the first who ventured to walk the way through so many Indians, and given knowledge to
the journey made by the pilot D. Paul Sisur by land to the establishment, both had the unfortunate
end to stop at a prison, which prison he delivered his own innocence.

Notwithstanding the contempt with which it was my proposal, the continued abuse and theft Indians
forced the Viceroy Lord to identify shipments that have come from Cordoba, Mendoza and the
capital, but not the Black River, which is the most immediate camp site to them. The cause I
can not understand me much room but the opposition of the establishment. God will not spoil those
costs, have left open that gate.

These expeditions were the best principles to discover and recognize
the two aforementioned steps and roads, for those of Mendoza and Córdoba
be crossed, and share them with their instructions and news commanders,
with the same spending levels rose to those sites, accompanying optional
sugetos sincerity and truth, and not full of prejudice Queen of the
establishments that: whether you have admitted, they may serve as
much news.

Taken from a true understanding of these steps and pathways, could
fortify and repair, extending to them the border guards, because they
cut these avenues, and the Choelechel, the other campaigns were free,
and to Buenos Aires, Rio and Black populations they shook hands on
the ground for communication, for the breeding and promotion of livestock,
and the extension of their populations.

See then that were so big advantages to the province, and even to the entire kingdom and safety recognition
of these steps.

The huge Indian they fall to provide themselves with horses and cattle,
is a lobster, pest or its destruction, that had it not been a very
long and very fertile fields, I would not breed.

The end does not hurry, give an idea of ​​his wealth safe and propagation; ceasing this cause
will be most advantageous for increased trade corambre that, as a result of earth, deserves attention
for being the first permanent and non-poor. The populations of Buenos Aires fields would go take
another increase and extension, particularly if they were met them to neighbors, who live on farms
scattered uninhabited, as is mandated by repeated royal decrees: for this concealment is perjudicialísimo
the spiritual good of those souls, and real legislation, for lack of instruction in our holy
Christian dogmas; rarely frequent the sacraments of Penance and Eucharist, and have almost no, recognize
or obey and whom to fear: so that differ little from the savage Indians.

This method of government is the destruction of themselves, because
the lot extension, which mediates one farm to another, leaves room
for the Indians to steal cattle, engage and kill their inhabitants,
whose misfortunes contribute to a greater part of which often go to
these infidels, communicating news and safe routes to their invasions,
so any spoil.

I heard on the Black River by the Indians, and that made voyages both expressed Godoy and Gonzales
pawns in this evil in our time have been repeated instances I made the Viceroy Lord to punish
them with rigor egemplar is learned have committed such horrific
crime, and realized together to know one of these ungodly who led
them: that was so extreme cruelty, which were not exempt from it their
own parents, whom he killed in one of the entries made with the Indians.

Populations

reduced to the neighbors of these farms will have different instructions and government and
through standards which are scored, there sugetos knowledge of the missing at people, and may
be known for another facility of his whereabouts.

I can not ignore, for a lot of knowledge acquired in the five years
I've been trying these savages in the Black River, how useful is the
method we observe the French in their Indies with such barbarians,
and with what reason we are recommended by Lord Ward in its draft
economic.

Without me the news milder these rules, I followed, and is notorious good harmony that I have kept
with them, and how useful it has been the promotion of the establishment: and can not be said
to be the best to are those that these fields, because there have busy on here hurt us.


"Mr. Clarke, you do not seem impressed with your importance," said Colonel Zane. "My sister
said you did not tell her what part you took in Isaac's rescue."

"I hardly deserve all the credit," answered Alfred. "Your big black dog merits a great deal of it."

"Well, I consider your first day at the fort a very satisfactory one, and an augury of that
fortune you came west to find."

"How are you?" said Alfred, going up to the couch where Isaac lay.

"I am doing well, thanks to you," said Isaac, warmly shaking Alfred's hand.

"It is good to see you pulling out all right," answered Alfred. "I tell you, I feared you were
in a bad way when I got you out of the water."

Isaac reclined on the couch with his head and shoulder propped up by pillows. He was the handsomest
of the brothers. His face would have been but for the marks of privation, singularly like Betty's;
the same low, level brows and dark eyes; the same mouth, though the lips were stronger and
without the soft curves which made his sister's mouth so sweet.

Betty appeared at the door, and seeing the room filled with men she hesitated a moment before
coming forward. In her white dress she made such a dainty picture that she seemed out of place
among those surroundings. Alfred Clarke, for one, thought such a charming vision was wasted
on the rough settlers, every one of whom wore a faded and dirty buckskin suit and a belt containing
a knife and a tomahawk. Colonel Zane stepped up to Betty and placing his arm around her turned
toward Clarke with pride in his eyes.

"Betty, I want to make you acquainted with the hero of the hour, Mr. Alfred Clarke. This is
my sister."

Betty bowed to Alfred, but lowered her eyes instantly on encountering the young man's gaze.

"I have had the pleasure of meeting Miss Zane twice today," said Alfred.

"Twice?" asked Colonel Zane, turning to Betty. She did not answer, but disengaged herself from
his arm and sat down by Isaac.

"It was on the river road that I first met Miss Zane, although I did not know her then," answered
Alfred. "I had some difficulty in stopping her pony from going to Fort Pitt, or some other
place down the river."

"Ha! Ha! Well, I know she rides that pony pretty hard," said Colonel Zane, with his hearty
laugh. "I'll tell you, Clarke, we have some riders here in the settlement. Have you heard of
Major McColloch's leap over the hill?"

"I have heard it mentioned, and I would like to hear the story," responded Alfred. "I am fond
of horses, and think I can ride a little myself. I am afraid I shall be compelled to change
my mind."

"That is a fine animal you rode from Fort Pitt," remarked the Major. "I would like to own him."

"Come, draw your chairs up and he'll listen to Isaac's story," said Colonel Zane.

"I have not much of a story to tell," said Isaac, in a voice still weak and low. "I have some
bad news, I am sorry to say, but I shall leave that for the last. This year, if it had been
completed, would have made my tenth year as a captive of the Wyandots. This last period of
captivity, which has been nearly four years, I have not been ill-treated and have enjoyed more
comfort than any of you can imagine. Probably you are all familiar with the reason for my long
captivity. Because of the interest of Myeerah, the Indian Princess, they have importuned me
for years to be adopted into the tribe, marry the White Crane, as they call Myeerah, and become
a Wyandot chief. To this I would never consent, though I have been careful not to provoke the
Indians. I was allowed the freedom of the camp, but have always been closely watched. I should
still be with the Indians had I not suspected that Hamilton, the British Governor, had formed
a plan with the Hurons, Shawnees, Delawares, and other tribes, to strike a terrible blow at
the whites along, the river. For months I have watched the Indians preparing for an expedition,
the extent of which they had never before undertaken. I finally learned from Myeerah that my
suspicions were well founded. A favorable chance to escape presented and I took it and got
away. I outran all the braves, even Arrowswift, the Wyandot runner, who shot me through the
arm. I have had a hard time of it these last three or four days, living on herbs and roots,
and when I reached the river I was ready to drop. I pushed a log into the water and started
to drift over. When the old dog saw me I knew I was safe if I could hold on. Once, when the
young man pointed his gun at me, I thought it was all over. I could not shout very loud."

"Were you going to shoot?" asked Colonel Zane of Clarke.

"I took him for an Indian, but fortunately I discovered my mistake in time," answered Alfred.

"Are the Indians on the way here?" asked Jonathan.

"That I cannot say. At present the Wyandots are at home. But I know that the British and the
Indians will make a combined attack on the settlements. It may be a month, or a year, but it
is coming."

"And Hamilton, the hair buyer, the scalp buyer, is behind the plan," said Colonel Zane, in disgust.

"The Indians have their wrongs. I sympathize with them in many ways. We have robbed them, broken
faith with them, and have not lived up to the treaties. Pipe and Wingenund are particularly
bitter toward the whites. I understand Cornplanter is also. He would give anything for Jonathan's
scalp, and I believe any of the tribes would give a hundred of their best warriors for 'Black
Wind,' as they call Lew Wetzel."

"Have you ever seen Red Fox?" asked Jonathan, who was sitting near the fire and as usual saying
but little. He was the wildest and most untamable of all the Zanes. Most of the time he spent
in the woods, not so much to fight Indians, as Wetzel did, but for pure love of outdoor life.
At home he was thoughtful and silent.

"Yes, I have seen him," answered Isaac. "He is a Shawnee chief and one of the fiercest warriors
in that tribe of fighters. He was at Indian-head, which is the name of one of the Wyandot villages,
when I visited there last, and he had two hundred of his best braves with him."

"He is a bad Indian. Wetzel and I know him. He swore he would hang our scalps up in his wigwam,"
said Jonathan.

"What has he in particular against you?" asked Colonel Zane. "Of course, Wetzel is the enemy
of all Indians."

"Several years ago Wetzel and I were on a hunt down the river at the place called Girty's Point,
where we fell in with the tracks of five Shawnees. I was for coming home, but Wetzel would
not hear of it. We trailed the Indians and, coming up on them after dark, we tomahawked them.
One of them got away crippled, but we could not follow him because we discovered that they
had a white girl as captive, and one of the red devils, thinking we were a rescuing party,
had tomahawked her. She was not quite dead. We did all we could to save her life. She died
and we buried her on the spot. They were Red Fox's braves and were on their way to his camp
with the prisoner. A year or so afterwards I learned from a friendly Indian that the Shawnee
chief had sworn to kill us. No doubt he will be a leader in the coming attack."

"We are living in the midst of terrible times," remarked Colonel Zane. "Indeed, these are the
times that try men's souls, but I firmly believe the day is not far distant when the redmen
will be driven far over the border."

"Is the Indian Princess pretty?" asked Betty of Isaac.

"Indeed she is, Betty, almost as beautiful as you are," said Isaac. "She is tall and very fair
for an Indian. But I have something to tell about her more interesting than that. Since I have
been with the Wyandots this last time I have discovered a little of the jealously guarded secret
of Myeerah's mother. When Tarhe and his band of Hurons lived in Canada their home was in the
Muskoka Lakes region on the Moon river. The old warriors tell wonderful stories of the beauty
of that country. Tarhe took captive some French travellers, among them a woman named La Durante.
She had a beautiful little girl. The prisoners, except this little girl, were released. When
she grew up Tarhe married her. Myeerah is her child. Once Tarhe took his wife to Detroit and
she was seen there by an old Frenchman who went crazy over her and said she was his child.
Tarhe never went to the white settlements again. So you see, Myeerah is from a great French
family on her mother's side, as this is old Frenchman was probably Chevalier La Durante, and
Myeerah's grandfather."

"I would love to see her, and yet I hate her. What an odd name she has," said Betty.

"It is the Indian name for the white crane, a rare and beautiful bird. I never saw one. The
name has been celebrated among the Hurons as long as any one of them can remember. The Indians
call her the White Crane, or Walk-in-the-Water, because of her love for wading in the stream."

"I think we have made Isaac talk enough for one night," said Colonel Zane. "He is tired out.
Major, tell Isaac and Betty, and Mr. Clarke, too, of your jump over the cliff."

"I have heard of that leap from the Indians," said Isaac.

"Major, from what hill did you jump your horse?" asked Alfred.

"You know the bare rocky bluff that stands out prominently on the hill across the creek. From
that spot Colonel Zane first saw the valley, and from there I leaped my horse. I can never
convince myself that it really happened. Often I look up at that cliff in doubt. But the Indians
and Colonel Zane, Jonathan, Wetzel and others say they actually saw the deed done, so I must
accept it," said Major McColloch.

"It seems incredible!" said Alfred. "I cannot understand how a man or horse could go over that
precipice and live."

"That is what we all say," responded the Colonel. "I suppose I shall have to tell the story.
We have fighters and makers of history here, but few talkers."

"I am anxious to hear it," answered Clarke, "and I am curious to see this man Wetzel, whose
fame has reached as far as my home, way down in Virginia."

"You will have your wish gratified soon, I have no doubt," resumed the Colonel. "Well, now
for the story of McColloch's mad ride for life and his wonderful leap down Wheeling hill. A
year ago, when the fort was besieged by the Indians, the Major got through the lines and made
off for Short Creek. He returned next morning with forty mounted men. They marched boldly up
to the gate, and all succeeded in getting inside save the gallant Major, who had waited to
be the last man to go in. Finding it impossible to make the short distance without going under
the fire of the Indians, who had rushed up to prevent the relief party from entering the fort,
he wheeled his big stallion, and, followed by the yelling band of savages, he took the road
leading around back of the fort to the top of the bluff. The road lay along the edge of the
cliff and I saw the Major turn and wave his rifle at us, evidently with the desire of assuring
us that he was safe. Suddenly, on the very summit of the hill, he reined in his horse as if
undecided. I knew in an instant what had happened. The Major had run right into the returning
party of Indians, which had been sent out to intercept our reinforcements. In a moment more
we heard the exultant yells of the savages, and saw them gliding from tree to tree, slowly
lengthening out their line and surrounding the unfortunate Major. They did not fire a shot.
We in the fort were stupefied with horror, and stood helplessly with our useless guns, watching
and waiting for the seemingly inevitable doom of our comrade. Not so with the Major! Knowing
that he was a marked man by the Indians and feeling that any death was preferable to the gauntlet,
the knife, the stake and torch of the merciless savage, he had grasped at a desperate chance.
He saw his enemies stealthily darting from rock to tree, and tree to bush, creeping through
the brush, and slipping closer and closer every moment. On three sides were his hated foes
and on the remaining side--the abyss. Without a moment's hesitation the intrepid Major spurred
his horse at the precipice. Never shall I forget that thrilling moment. The three hundred savages
were silent as they realized the Major's intention. Those in the fort watched with staring
eyes. A few bounds and the noble steed reared high on his hind legs. Outlined by the clear
blue sky the magnificent animal stood for one brief instant, his black mane flying in the wind,
his head thrown up and his front hoofs pawing the air like Marcus Curtius' mailed steed of
old, and then down with a crash, a cloud of dust, and the crackling of pine limbs. A long yell
went up from the Indians below, while those above ran to the edge of the cliff. With cries
of wonder and baffled vengeance they gesticulated toward the dark ravine into which horse and
rider had plunged rather than wait to meet a more cruel death. The precipice at this point
is over three hundred feet in height, and in places is almost perpendicular. We believed the
Major to be lying crushed and mangled on the rocks. Imagine our frenzy of joy when we saw the
daring soldier and his horse dash out of the bushes that skirt the base of the cliff, cross
the creek, and come galloping to the fort in safety."

"It was wonderful! Wonderful!" exclaimed Isaac, his eyes glistening. "No wonder the Indians
call you the 'Flying Chief.'"

"Had the Major not jumped into the clump of pine trees which grow thickly some thirty feet
below the summit he would not now be alive," said Colonel Zane. "I am certain of that. Nevertheless
that does not detract from the courage of his deed. He had no time to pick out the best place
to jump. He simply took his one chance, and came out all right. That leap will live in the
minds of men as long as yonder bluff stands a monument to McColloch's ride for life."

Alfred had listened with intense interest to the Colonel's recital. When it ended, although
his pulses quickened and his soul expanded with awe and reverence for the hero of that ride,
he sat silent. Alfred honored courage in a man more than any other quality. He marvelled at
the simplicity of these bordermen who, he thought, took the most wonderful adventures and daring
escapes as a matter of course, a compulsory part of their daily lives. He had already, in one
day, had more excitement than had ever befallen him, and was beginning to believe his thirst
for a free life of stirring action would be quenched long before he had learned to become useful
in his new sphere. During the remaining half hour of his call on his lately acquired friends,
he took little part in the conversation, but sat quietly watching the changeful expressions
on Betty's face, and listening to Colonel Zane's jokes. When he rose to go he bade his host
good-night, and expressed a wish that Isaac, who had fallen asleep, might have a speedy recovery.
He turned toward the door to find that Betty had intercepted him.

"Mr. Clarke," she said, extending a little hand that trembled slightly. "I wish to say--that--I
want to say that my feelings have changed. I am sorry for what I said over at Lydia's. I spoke
hastily and rudely. You have saved my brother's life. I will be forever grateful to you. It
is useless to try to thank you. I--I hope we may be friends."

Alfred found it desperately hard to resist that low voice, and those dark eyes which were raised
shyly, yet bravely, to his. But he had been deeply hurt. He pretended not to see the friendly
hand held out to him, and his voice was cold when he answered her.

"I am glad to have been of some service," he said, "but I think you overrate my action. Your
brother would not have drowned, I am sure. You owe me nothing. Good-night."

Betty stood still one moment staring at the door through which he had gone before she realized
that her overtures of friendship had been politely, but coldly, ignored. She had actually been
snubbed. The impossible had happened to Elizabeth Zane. Her first sensation after she recovered
from her momentary bewilderment was one of amusement, and she laughed in a constrained manner;
but, presently, two bright red spots appeared in her cheeks, and she looked quickly around
to see if any of the others had noticed the incident. None of them had been paying any attention
to her and she breathed a sigh of relief. It was bad enough to be snubbed without having others
see it. That would have been too humiliating. Her eyes flashed fire as she remembered the disdain
in Clarke's face, and that she had not been clever enough to see it in time.

"Tige, come here!" called Colonel Zane. "What ails the dog?"

The dog had jumped to his feet and ran to the door, where he sniffed at the crack over the
threshold. His aspect was fierce and threatening. He uttered low growls and then two short
barks. Those in the room heard a soft moccasined footfall outside. The next instant the door
opened wide and a tall figure stood disclosed.

"Wetzel!" exclaimed Colonel Zane. A hush fell on the little company after that exclamation,
and all eyes were fastened on the new comer.

Well did the stranger merit close attention. He stalked into the room, leaned his long rifle
against the mantelpiece and spread out his hands to the fire. He was clad from head to foot
in fringed and beaded buckskin, which showed evidence of a long and arduous tramp. It was torn
and wet and covered with mud. He was a magnificently made man, six feet in height, and stood
straight as an arrow. His wide shoulders, and his muscular, though not heavy, limbs denoted
wonderful strength and activity. His long hair, black as a raven's wing, hung far down his
shoulders. Presently he turned and the light shone on a remarkable face. So calm and cold and
stern it was that it seemed chiselled out of marble. The most striking features were its unusual
pallor, and the eyes, which were coal black, and piercing as the dagger's point.

"If you have any bad news out with it," cried Colonel Zane, impatiently.

"No need fer alarm," said Wetzel. He smiled slightly as he saw Betty's apprehensive face. "Don't
look scared, Betty. The redskins are miles away and goin' fer the Kanawha settlement."

CHAPTER III.

Many weeks of quiet followed the events of the last chapter. The settlers planted their corn,
harvested their wheat and labored in the fields during the whole of one spring and summer without
hearing the dreaded war cry of the Indians. Colonel Zane, who had been a disbursing officer
in the army of Lord Dunmore, where he had attained the rank of Colonel, visited Fort Pitt during
the summer in the hope of increasing the number of soldiers in his garrison. His efforts proved
fruitless. He returned to Fort Henry by way of the river with several pioneers, who with their
families were bound for Fort Henry. One of these pioneers was a minister who worked in the
fields every week day and on Sundays preached the Gospel to those who gathered in the meeting
house.

Alfred Clarke had taken up his permanent abode at the fort, where he had been installed as
one of the regular garrison. His duties, as well as those of the nine other members of the
garrison, were light. For two hours out of the twenty-four he was on guard. Thus he had ample
time to acquaint himself with the settlers and their families.

Alfred and Isaac had now become firm friends. They spent many hours fishing in the river, and
roaming the woods in the vicinity, as Colonel Zane would not allow Isaac to stray far from
the fort. Alfred became a regular visitor at Colonel Zane's house. He saw Betty every day,
but as yet, nothing had mended the breach between them. They were civil to each other when
chance threw them together, but Betty usually left the room on some pretext soon after he entered.
Alfred regretted his hasty exhibition of resentment and would have been glad to establish friendly
relations with her. But she would not give him an opportunity. She avoided him on all possible
occasions. Though Alfred was fast succumbing to the charm of Betty's beautiful face, though
his desire to be near her had grown well nigh resistless, his pride had not yet broken down.
Many of the summer evenings found him on the Colonel's doorstep, smoking a pipe, or playing
with the children. He was that rare and best company--a good listener. Although he laughed
at Colonel Zane's stories, and never tired of hearing of Isaac's experiences among the Indians,
it is probable he would not have partaken of the Colonel's hospitality nearly so often had
it not been that he usually saw Betty, and if he got only a glimpse of her he went away satisfied.
On Sundays he attended the services at the little church and listened to Betty's sweet voice
as she led the singing.

There were a number of girls at the fort near Betty's age. With all of these Alfred was popular.
He appeared so entirely different from the usual young man on the frontier that he was more
than welcome everywhere. Girls in the backwoods are much the same as girls in thickly populated
and civilized districts. They liked his manly ways; his frank and pleasant manners; and when
to these virtues he added a certain deferential regard, a courtliness to which they were unaccustomed,
they were all the better pleased. He paid the young women little attentions, such as calling
on them, taking them to parties and out driving, but there was not one of them who could think
that she, in particular, interested him.

The girls noticed, however, that he never approached Betty after service, or on any occasion,
and while it caused some wonder and gossip among them, for Betty enjoyed the distinction of
being the belle of the border, they were secretly pleased. Little hints and knowing smiles,
with which girls are so skillful, made known to Betty all of this, and, although she was apparently
indifferent, it hurt her sensitive feelings. It had the effect of making her believe she hated
the cause of it more than ever.

What would have happened had things gone on in this way, I am not prepared to say; probably
had not a meddling Fate decided to take a hand in the game, Betty would have continued to think
she hated Alfred, and I would never have had occasion to write his story; but Fate did interfere,
and, one day in the early fall, brought about an incident which changed the whole world for
the two young people.

It was the afternoon of an Indian summer day--in that most beautiful time of all the year--and
Betty, accompanied by her dog, had wandered up the hillside into the woods. From the hilltop
the broad river could be seen winding away in the distance, and a soft, bluish, smoky haze
hung over the water. The forest seemed to be on fire. The yellow leaves of the poplars, the
brown of the white and black oaks, the red and purple of the maples, and the green of the pines
and hemlocks flamed in a glorious blaze of color. A stillness, which was only broken now and
then by the twittering of birds uttering the plaintive notes peculiar to them in the autumn
as they band together before their pilgrimage to the far south, pervaded the forest.

Betty loved the woods, and she knew all the trees. She could tell their names by the bark or
the shape of the leaves. The giant black oak, with its smooth shiny bark and sturdy limbs,
the chestnut with its rugged, seamed sides and bristling burrs, the hickory with its lofty
height and curled shelling bark, were all well known and well loved by Betty. Many times had
she wondered at the trembling, quivering leaves of the aspen, and the foliage of the silver-leaf
as it glinted in the sun. To-day, especially, as she walked through the woods, did their beauty
appeal to her. In the little sunny patches of clearing which were scattered here and there
in the grove, great clusters of goldenrod grew profusely. The golden heads swayed gracefully
on the long stems Betty gathered a few sprigs and added to them a bunch of warmly tinted maple
leaves.

The chestnuts burrs were opening. As Betty mounted a little rocky eminence and reached out
for a limb of a chestnut tree, she lost her footing and fell. Her right foot had twisted under
her as she went down, and when a sharp pain shot through it she was unable to repress a cry.
She got up, tenderly placed the foot on the ground and tried her weight on it, which caused
acute pain. She unlaced and removed her moccasin to find that her ankle had commenced to swell.
Assured that she had sprained it, and aware of the serious consequences of an injury of that
nature, she felt greatly distressed. Another effort to place her foot on the ground and bear
her weight on it caused such severe pain that she was compelled to give up the attempt. Sinking
down by the trunk of the tree and leaning her head against it she tried to think of a way out
of her difficulty.

The fort, which she could plainly see, seemed a long distance off, although it was only a little
way down the grassy slope. She looked and looked, but not a person was to be seen. She called
to Tige. She remembered that he had been chasing a squirrel a short while ago, but now there
was no sign of him. He did not come at her call. How annoying! If Tige were only there she
could have sent him for help. She shouted several times, but the distance was too great for
her voice to carry to the fort. The mocking echo of her call came back from the bluff that
rose to her left. Betty now began to be alarmed in earnest, and the tears started to roll down
her cheeks. The throbbing pain in her ankle, the dread of having to remain out in that lonesome
forest after dark, and the fear that she might not be found for hours, caused Betty's usually
brave spirit to falter; she was weeping unreservedly.

In reality she had been there only a few minutes--although they seemed hours to her--when she
heard the light tread of moccasined feet on the moss behind her. Starting up with a cry of
joy she turned and looked up into the astonished face of Alfred Clarke.

Returning from a hunt back in the woods he had walked up to her before being aware of her presence.
In a single glance he saw the wildflowers scattered beside her, the little moccasin turned
inside out, the woebegone, tearstained face, and he knew Betty had come to grief.

Confused and vexed, Betty sank back at the foot of the tree. It is probable she would have
encountered Girty or a member of his band of redmen, rather than have this young man find her
in this predicament. It provoked her to think that of all the people at the fort it should
be the only one she could not welcome who should find her in such a sad plight.

"Why, Miss Zane!" he exclaimed, after a moment of hesitation. "What in the world has happened?
Have you been hurt? May I help you?"

"It is nothing," said Betty, bravely, as she gathered up her flowers and the moccasin and rose
slowly to her feet. "Thank you, but you need not wait."

The cold words nettled Alfred and he was in the act of turning away from her when he caught,
for the fleetest part of a second, the full gaze of her eyes. He stopped short. A closer scrutiny
of her face convinced him that she was suffering and endeavoring with all her strength to conceal
it.

"But I will wait. I think you have hurt yourself. Lean upon my arm," he said, quietly.

"Please let me help you," he continued, going nearer to her.

But Betty refused his assistance. She would not even allow him to take the goldenrod from her
arms. After a few hesitating steps she paused and lifted her foot from the ground.

"Here, you must not try to walk a step farther," he said, resolutely, noting how white she
had suddenly become. "You have sprained your ankle and are needlessly torturing yourself. Please
let me carry you?"

"Oh, no, no, no!" cried Betty, in evident distress. "I will manage. It is not so--very--far."

She resumed the slow and painful walking, but she had taken only a few steps when she stopped
again and this time a low moan issued from her lips. She swayed slightly backward and if Alfred
had not dropped his rifle and caught her she would have fallen.

"Will you--please--for some one?" she whispered faintly, at the same time pushing him away.

"How absurd!" burst out Alfred, indignantly. "Am I then, so distasteful to you that you would
rather wait here and suffer a half hour longer while I go for assistance? It is only common
courtesy on my part. I do not want to carry you. I think you would be quite heavy."

He said this in a hard, bitter tone, deeply hurt that she would not accept even a little kindness
from him. He looked away from her and waited. Presently a soft, half-smothered sob came from
Betty and it expressed such utter wretchedness that his heart melted. After all she was only
a child. He turned to see the tears running down her cheeks, and with a suppressed imprecation
upon the wilfulness of young women in general, and this one in particular, he stepped forward
and before she could offer any resistance, he had taken her up in his arms, goldenrod and all,
and had started off at a rapid walk toward the fort.

Betty cried out in angry surprise, struggled violently for a moment, and then, as suddenly,
lay quietly in his arms. His anger changed to self-reproach as he realized what a light burden
she made. He looked down at the dark head lying on his shoulder. Her face was hidden by the
dusky rippling hair, which tumbled over his breast, brushed against his cheek, and blew across
his lips. The touch of those fragrant tresses was a soft caress. Almost unconsciously he pressed
her closer to his heart. And as a sweet mad longing grew upon him he was blind to all save
that he held her in his arms, that uncertainty was gone forever, and that he loved her. With
these thoughts running riot in his brain he carried her down the hill to Colonel Zane's house.

The negro, Sam, who came out of the kitchen, dropped the bucket he had in his hand and ran
into the house when he saw them. When Alfred reached the gate Colonel Zane and Isaac were hurrying
out to meet him.

"For Heaven's sake! What has happened? Is she badly hurt? I have always looked for this," said
the Colonel, excitedly.

"You need not look so alarmed," answered Alfred. "She has only sprained her ankle, and trying
to walk afterward hurt her so badly that she became faint and I had to carry her."

"Dear me, is that all?" said Mrs. Zane, who had also come out. "We were terribly frightened.
Sam came running into the house with some kind of a wild story. Said he knew you would be the
death of Betty."

"How ridiculous! Colonel Zane, that servant of yours never fails to say something against me,"
said Alfred, as he carried Betty into the house.

"He doesn't like you. But you need not mind Sam. He is getting old and we humor him, perhaps
too much. We are certainly indebted to you," returned the Colonel.

Betty was laid on the couch and consigned to the skillful hands of Mrs. Zane, who pronounced
the injury a bad sprain.

"Well, Betty, this will keep you quiet for a few days," said she, with a touch of humor, as
she gently felt the swollen ankle.

"Alfred, you have been our good angel so often that I don't see how we shall ever reward you,"
said Isaac to Alfred.

"Oh, that time will come. Don't worry about that," said Alfred, jestingly, and then, turning
to the others he continued, earnestly. "I will apologize for the manner in which I disregarded
Miss Zane's wish not to help her. I am sure I could do no less. I believe my rudeness has spared
her considerable suffering."

"What did he mean, Betts?" asked Isaac, going back to his sister after he had closed the door.
"Didn't you want him to help you?"

Betty did not answer. She sat on the couch while Mrs. Zane held the little bare foot and slowly
poured the hot water over the swollen and discolored ankle. Betty's lips were pale. She winced
every time Mrs. Zane touched her foot, but as yet she had not uttered even a sigh.

"Betty, does it hurt much?" asked Isaac.

"Hurt? Do you think I am made of wood? Of course it hurts," retorted Betty. "That water is
so hot. Bessie, will not cold water do as well?"

"I am sorry. I won't tease any more," said Isaac, taking his sister's hand. "I'll tell you
what, Betty, we owe Alfred Clarke a great deal, you and I. I am going to tell you something
so you will know how much more you owe him. Do you remember last month when that red heifer
of yours got away. Well, Clarke chased her away and finally caught her in the woods. He asked
me to say I had caught her. Somehow or other he seems to be afraid of you. I wish you and he
would be good friends. He is a mighty fine fellow."

In spite of the pain Betty was suffering a bright blush suffused her face at the words of her
brother, who, blind as brothers are in regard to their own sisters, went on praising his friend.

Betty was confined to the house a week or more and during this enforced idleness she had ample
time for reflection and opportunity to inquire into the perplexed state of her mind.

The small room, which Betty called her own, faced the river and fort. Most of the day she lay
by the window trying to read her favorite books, but often she gazed out on the quiet scene,
the rolling river, the everchanging trees and the pastures in which the red and white cows
grazed peacefully; or she would watch with idle, dreamy eyes the flight of the crows over the
hills, and the graceful motion of the hawk as he sailed around and around in the azure sky,
looking like a white sail far out on a summer sea.

But Betty's mind was at variance with this peaceful scene. The consciousness of a change, which
she could not readily define, in her feelings toward Alfred Clarke, vexed and irritated her.
Why did she think of him so often? True, he had saved her brother's life. Still she was compelled
to admit to herself that this was not the reason. Try as she would, she could not banish the
thought of him. Over and over again, a thousand times, came the recollection of that moment
when he had taken her up in his arms as though she were a child. Some vague feeling stirred
in her heart as she remembered the strong yet gentle clasp of his arms.

Several times from her window she had seen him coming across the square between the fort and
her brother's house, and womanlike, unseen herself, she had watched him. How erect was his
carriage. How pleasant his deep voice sounded as she heard him talking to her brother. Day
by day, as her ankle grew stronger and she knew she could not remain much longer in her room,
she dreaded more and more the thought of meeting him. She could not understand herself; she
had strange dreams; she cried seemingly without the slightest cause and she was restless and
unhappy. Finally she grew angry and scolded herself. She said she was silly and sentimental.
This had the effect of making her bolder, but it did not quiet her unrest. Betty did not know
that the little blind God, who steals unawares on his victim, had marked her for his own, and
that all this sweet perplexity was the unconscious awakening of the heart.

One afternoon, near the end of Betty's siege indoors, two of her friends, Lydia Boggs and Alice
Reynolds, called to see her.

Alice had bright blue eyes, and her nut brown hair hung in rebellious curls around her demure
and pretty face. An adorable dimple lay hidden in her rosy cheek and flashed into light with
her smiles.

"Betty, you are a lazy thing!" exclaimed Lydia. "Lying here all day long doing nothing but
gaze out of the window."

"Girls, I am glad you came over," said Betty. "I am blue. Perhaps you will cheer me up."

"Betty needs some one of the sterner sex to cheer her," said Alice, mischievously, her eyes
twinkling. "Don't you think so, Lydia?"

"Of course," answered Lydia. "When I get blue--"

"Please spare me," interrupted Betty, holding up her hands in protest. "I have not a single
doubt that your masculine remedies are sufficient for all your ills. Girls who have lost their
interest in the old pleasures, who spend their spare time in making linen and quilts, and who
have sunk their very personalities in a great big tyrant of a man, are not liable to get blue.
They are afraid he may see a tear or a frown. But thank goodness, I have not yet reached that
stage."

"Oh, Betty Zane! Just you wait! Wait!" exclaimed Lydia, shaking her finger at Betty. "Your
turn is coming. When it does do not expect any mercy from us, for you shalt never get it."

"Unfortunately, you and Alice have monopolized the attentions of the only two eligible young
men at the fort," said Betty, with a laugh.

"Nonsense there plenty of young men all eager for our favor, you little coquette," answered
Lydia. "Harry Martin, Will Metzer, Captain Swearengen, of Short Creek, and others too numerous
to count. Look at Lew Wetzel and Billy Bennet."

"Lew cares for nothing except hunting Indians and Billy's only a boy," said Betty.

"Well, have it your own way," said Lydia. "Only this, I know Billy adores you, for he told
me so, and a better lad never lived."

"Lyde, you forget to include one other among those prostrate before Betty's charms," said Alice.

"Oh, yes, you mean Mr. Clarke. To be sure, I had forgotten him," answered Lydia. "How odd that
he should be the one to find you the day you hurt your foot. Was it an accident?"

"Of course. I slipped off the bank," said Betty.

"No, no. I don't mean that. Was his finding you an accident?"

"Do you imagine I waylaid Mr. Clarke, and then sprained my ankle on purpose?" said Betty, who
began to look dangerous.

"Certainly not that; only it seems so odd that he should be the one to rescue all the damsels
in distress. Day before yesterday he stopped a runaway horse, and saved Nell Metzer who was
in the wagon, a severe shaking up, if not something more serious. She is desperately in love
with him. She told me Mr. Clarke--"

"I really do not care to hear about it," interrupted Betty.

"But, Betty, tell us. Wasn't it dreadful, his carrying you?" asked Alice, with a sly glance
at Betty. "You know you are so--so prudish, one may say. Did he take you in his arms? It must
have been very embarrassing for you, considering your dislike of Mr. Clarke, and he so much
in love with--"

"You hateful girls," cried Betty, throwing a pillow at Alice, who just managed to dodge it.
"I wish you would go home."

"Never mind, Betty. We will not tease anymore," said Lydia, putting her arm around Betty. "Come,
Alice, we will tell Betty you have named the day for your wedding. See! She is all eyes now."

           * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

The young people of the frontier settlements were usually married before they were twenty.
This was owing to the fact that there was little distinction of rank and family pride. The
object of the pioneers in moving West was, of course, to better their condition; but, the realization
of their dependence on one another, the common cause of their labors, and the terrible dangers
to which they were continually exposed, brought them together as one large family.

Therefore, early love affairs were encouraged--not frowned upon as they are to-day--and they
usually resulted in early marriages.

However, do not let it be imagined that the path of the youthful swain was strewn with flowers.
Courting or "sparking" his sweetheart had a painful as well as a joyous side. Many and varied
were the tricks played on the fortunate lover by the gallants who had vied with him for the
favor of the maid. Brave, indeed, he who won her. If he marched up to her home in the early
evening he was made the object of innumerable jests, even the young lady's family indulging
in and enjoying the banter. Later, when he come out of the door, it was more than likely that,
if it were winter, he would be met by a volley of water soaked snowballs, or big buckets of
icewater, or a mountain of snow shoved off the roof by some trickster, who had waited patiently
for such an opportunity. On summer nights his horse would be stolen, led far into the woods
and tied, or the wheels of his wagon would be taken off and hidden, leaving him to walk home.
Usually the successful lover, and especially if he lived at a distance, would make his way
only once a week and then late at night to the home of his betrothed. Silently, like a thief
in the dark, he would crawl through the grass and shrubs until beneath her window. At a low
signal, prearranged between them, she would slip to the door and let him in without disturbing
the parents. Fearing to make a light, and perhaps welcoming that excuse to enjoy the darkness
beloved by sweethearts, they would sit quietly, whispering low, until the brightening in the
east betokened the break of day, and then he was off, happy and lighthearted, to his labors.

A wedding was looked forward to with much pleasure by old and young. Practically, it meant
the only gathering of the settlers which was not accompanied by the work of reaping the harvest,
building a cabin, planning an expedition to relieve some distant settlement, or a defense for
themselves. For all, it meant a rollicking good time; to the old people a feast, and the looking
on at the merriment of their children--to the young folk, a pleasing break in the monotony
of their busy lives, a day given up to fun and gossip, a day of romance, a wedding, and best
of all, a dance. Therefore Alice Reynold's wedding proved a great event to the inhabitants
of Fort Henry.

The day dawned bright and clear. The sun, rising like a ball of red gold, cast its yellow beams
over the bare, brown hills, shining on the cabin roofs white with frost, and making the delicate
weblike coat of ice on the river sparkle as if it had been sprinkled with powdered diamonds.
William Martin, the groom, and his attendants, met at an appointed time to celebrate an old
time-honored custom which always took place before the party started for the house of the bride.
This performance was called "the race for the bottle."

A number of young men, selected by the groom, were asked to take part in this race, which was
to be run over as rough and dangerous a track as could be found. The worse the road, the more
ditches, bogs, trees, stumps, brush, in fact, the more obstacles of every kind, the better,
as all these afforded opportunity for daring and expert horsemanship. The English fox race,
now famous on three continents, while it involves risk and is sometimes dangerous, cannot,
in the sense of hazard to life and limb, be compared to this race for the bottle.

On this day the run was not less exciting than usual. The horses were placed as nearly abreast
as possible and the starter gave an Indian yell. Then followed the cracking of whips, the furious
pounding of heavy hoofs, the commands of the contestants, and the yells of the onlookers. Away
they went at a mad pace down the road. The course extended a mile straight away down the creek
bottom. The first hundred yards the horses were bunched. At the ditch beyond the creek bridge
a beautiful, clean limbed animal darted from among the furiously galloping horses and sailed
over the deep furrow like a bird. All recognized the rider as Alfred Clarke on his black thoroughbred.
Close behind was George Martin mounted on a large roan of powerful frame and long stride. Through
the willows they dashed, over logs and brush heaps, up the little ridges of rising ground,
and down the shallow gullies, unheeding the stinging branches and the splashing water. Half
the distance covered and Alfred turned, to find the roan close behind. On a level road he would
have laughed at the attempt of that horse to keep up with his racer, but he was beginning to
fear that the strong limbed stallion deserved his reputation. Directly before them rose a pile
of logs and matted brush, placed there by the daredevil settlers who had mapped out the route.
It was too high for any horse to be put at. With pale cheek and clinched teeth Alfred touched
the spurs to Roger and then threw himself forward. The gallant beast responded nobly. Up, up,
up he rose, clearing all but the topmost branches. Alfred turned again and saw the giant roan
make the leap without touching a twig. The next instant Roger went splash into a swamp. He
sank to his knees in the soft black soil. He could move but one foot at a time, and Alfred
saw at a glance he had won the race. The great weight of the roan handicapped him here. When
Alfred reached the other side of the bog, where the bottle was swinging from a branch of a
tree, his rival's horse was floundering hopelessly in the middle of the treacherous mire. The
remaining three horsemen, who had come up by this time, seeing that it would be useless to
attempt further efforts, had drawn up on the bank. With friendly shouts to Clarke, they acknowledged
themselves beaten. There were no judges required for this race, because the man who reached
the bottle first won it.

The five men returned to the starting point, where the victor was greeted by loud whoops. The
groom got the first drink from the bottle, then came the attendants, and others in order, after
which the bottle was put away to be kept as a memento of the occasion.

The party now repaired to the village and marched to the home of the bride. The hour for the
observance of the marriage rites was just before the midday meal. When the groom reached the
bride's home he found her in readiness. Sweet and pretty Alice looked in her gray linsey gown,
perfectly plain and simple though it was, without an ornament or a ribbon. Proud indeed looked
her lover as he took her hand and led her up to the waiting minister. When the whisperings
had ceased the minister asked who gave this woman to be married. Alice's father answered.

"Will you take this woman to be your wedded wife, to love, cherish and protect her all the
days of her life?" asked the minister.

"I will," answered a deep bass voice.

"Will you take this man to be your wedded husband, to love, honor and obey him all the days
of your life?"

"I will," said Alice, in a low tone.

"I pronounce you man and wife. Those whom God has joined together let no man put asunder."

There was a brief prayer and the ceremony ended. Then followed the congratulations of relatives
and friends. The felicitations were apt to be trying to the nerves of even the best tempered
groom. The hand shakes, the heavy slaps on the back, and the pommeling he received at the hands
of his intimate friends were as nothing compared to the anguish of mind he endured while they
were kissing his wife. The young bucks would not have considered it a real wedding had they
been prevented from kissing the bride, and for that matter, every girl within reach. So fast
as the burly young settlers could push themselves through the densely packed rooms they kissed
the bride, and then the first girl they came to.

Betty and Lydia had been Alice's maids of honor. This being Betty's first experience at a frontier
wedding, it developed that she was much in need of Lydia's advice, which she had previously
disdained. She had rested secure in her dignity. Poor Betty! The first man to kiss Alice was
George Martin, a big, strong fellow, who gathered his brother's bride into his arms and gave
her a bearish hug and a resounding kiss. Releasing her he turned toward Lydia and Betty. Lydia
eluded him, but one of his great hands clasped around Betty's wrist. She tried to look haughty,
but with everyone laughing, and the young man's face expressive of honest fun and happiness
she found it impossible. She stood still and only turned her face a little to one side while
George kissed her. The young men now made a rush for her. With blushing cheeks Betty, unable
to stand her ground any longer, ran to her brother, the Colonel. He pushed her away with a
laugh. She turned to Major McColloch, who held out his arms to her. With an exclamation she
wrenched herself free from a young man, who had caught her hand, and flew to the Major. But
alas for Betty! The Major was not proof against the temptation and he kissed her himself.

"Traitor!" cried Betty, breaking away from him.

Poor Betty was in despair. She had just made up her mind to submit when she caught sight of
Wetzel's familiar figure. She ran to him and the hunter put one of his long arms around her.

"I reckon I kin take care of you, Betty," he said, a smile playing over his usually stern face.
"See here, you young bucks. Betty don't want to be kissed, and if you keep on pesterin' her
I'll have to scalp a few of you."

The merriment grew as the day progressed. During the wedding feast great hilarity prevailed.
It culminated in the dance which followed the dinner. The long room of the block-house had
been decorated with evergreens, autumn leaves and goldenrod, which were scattered profusely
about, hiding the blackened walls and bare rafters. Numerous blazing pine knots, fastened on
sticks which were stuck into the walls, lighted up a scene, which for color and animation could
not have been surpassed.

Colonel Zane's old slave, Sam, who furnished the music, sat on a raised platform at the upper
end of the hall, and the way he sawed away on his fiddle, accompanying the movements of his
arm with a swaying of his body and a stamping of his heavy foot, showed he had a hearty appreciation
of his own value.

Prominent among the men and women standing and sitting near the platform could be distinguished
the tall forms of Jonathan Zane, Major McColloch and Wetzel, all, as usual, dressed in their
hunting costumes and carrying long rifles. The other men had made more or less effort to improve
their appearance. Bright homespun shirts and scarfs had replaced the everyday buckskin garments.
Major McColloch was talking to Colonel Zane. The genial faces of both reflected the pleasure
they felt in the enjoyment of the younger people. Jonathan Zane stood near the door. Moody
and silent he watched the dance. Wetzel leaned against the wall. The black barrel of his rifle
lay in the hollow of his arm. The hunter was gravely contemplating the members of the bridal
party who were dancing in front of him. When the dance ended Lydia and Betty stopped before
Wetzel and Betty said: "Lew, aren't you going to ask us to dance?"

The hunter looked down into the happy, gleaming faces, and smiling in his half sad way, answered:
"Every man to his gifts."

"But you can dance. I want you to put aside your gun long enough to dance with me. If I waited
for you to ask me, I fear I should have to wait a long time. Come, Lew, here I am asking you,
and I know the other men are dying to dance with me," said Betty, coaxingly, in a roguish voice.

Wetzel never refused a request of Betty's, and so, laying aside his weapons, he danced with
her, to the wonder and admiration of all. Colonel Zane clapped his hands, and everyone stared
in amazement at the unprecedented sight Wetzel danced not ungracefully. He was wonderfully
light on his feet. His striking figure, the long black hair, and the fancifully embroidered
costume he wore contrasted strangely with Betty's slender, graceful form and pretty gray dress.

"Well, well, Lewis, I would not have believed anything but the evidence of my own eyes," said
Colonel Zane, with a laugh, as Betty and Wetzel approached him.

"If all the men could dance as well as Lew, the girls would be thankful, I can assure you,"
said Betty.

"Betty, I declare you grow prettier every day," said old John Bennet, who was standing with
the Colonel and the Major. "If I were only a young man once more I should try my chances with
you, and I wouldn't give up very easily."

"I do not know, Uncle John, but I am inclined to think that if you were a young man and should
come a-wooing you would not get a rebuff from me," answered Betty, smiling on the old man,
of whom she was very fond.

"Miss Zane, will you dance with me?"

The voice sounded close by Betty's side. She recognized it, and an unaccountable sensation
of shyness suddenly came over her. She had firmly made up her mind, should Mr. Clarke ask her
to dance, that she would tell him she was tired, or engaged for that number--anything so that
she could avoid dancing with him. But, now that the moment had come she either forgot her resolution
or lacked the courage to keep it, for as the music commenced, she turned and without saying
a word or looking at him, she placed her hand on his arm. He whirled her away. She gave a start
of surprise and delight at the familiar step and then gave herself up to the charm of the dance.
Supported by his strong arm she floated around the room in a sort of dream. Dancing as they
did was new to the young people at the Fort--it was a style then in vogue in the east--and
everyone looked on with great interest and curiosity. But all too soon the dance ended and
before Betty had recovered her composure she found that her partner had led her to a secluded
seat in the lower end of the hall. The bench was partly obscured from the dancers by masses
of autumn leaves. "That was a very pleasant dance," said Alfred. "Miss Boggs told me you danced
the round dance."

"I was much surprised and pleased," said Betty, who had indeed enjoyed it.

"It has been a delightful day," went on Alfred, seeing that Betty was still confused. "I almost
killed myself in that race for the bottle this morning. I never saw such logs and brush heaps
and ditches in my life. I am sure that if the fever of recklessness which seemed in the air
had not suddenly seized me I would never have put my horse at such leaps."

"I heard my brother say your horse was one of the best he had ever seen, and that you rode
superbly," murmured Betty.

"Well, to be honest, I would not care to take that ride again. It certainly was not fair to
the horse."

"How do you like the fort by this time?"

"Miss Zane, I am learning to love this free, wild life. I really think I was made for the frontier.
The odd customs and manners which seemed strange at first have become very acceptable to me
now. I find everyone so honest and simple and brave. Here one must work to live, which is right.
Do you know, I never worked in my life until I came to Fort Henry. My life was all uselessness,
idleness."

"I can hardly believe that," answered Betty. "You have learned to dance and ride and--"

"What?" asked Alfred, as Betty hesitated.

"Never mind. It was an accomplishment with which the girls credited you," said Betty, with
a little laugh.

"I suppose I did not deserve it. I heard I had a singular aptitude for discovering young ladies
in distress."

"Have you become well acquainted with the boys?" asked Betty, hastening to change the subject.

"Oh, yes, particularly with your Indianized brother, Isaac. He is the finest fellow, as well
as the most interesting, I ever knew. I like Colonel Zane immensely too. The dark, quiet fellow,
Jack, or John, they call him, is not like your other brothers. The hunter, Wetzel, inspires
me with awe. Everyone has been most kind to me and I have almost forgotten that I was a wanderer."

"I am glad to hear that," said Betty.

"Miss Zane," continued Alfred, "doubtless you have heard that I came West because I was compelled
to leave my home. Please do not believe everything you hear of me. Some day I may tell you
my story if you care to hear it. Suffice it to say now that I left my home of my own free will
and I could go back to-morrow."

"I did not mean to imply--" began Betty, coloring.

"Of course not. But tell me about yourself. Is it not rather dull and lonesome here for you?"

"It was last winter. But I have been contented and happy this summer. Of course, it is not
Philadelphia life, and I miss the excitement and gayety of my uncle's house. I knew my place
was with my brothers. My aunt pleaded with me to live with her and not go to the wilderness.
I had everything I wanted there--luxury, society, parties, balls, dances, friends--all that
the heart of a girl could desire, but I preferred to come to this little frontier settlement.
Strange choice for a girl, was it not?"

"Unusual, yes," answered Alfred, gravely. "And I cannot but wonder what motives actuated our
coming to Fort Henry. I came to seek my fortune. You came to bring sunshine into the home of
your brother, and left your fortune behind you. Well, your motive has the element of nobility.
Mine has nothing but that of recklessness. I would like to read the future."

"I do not think it is right to have such a wish. With the veil rolled away could you work as
hard, accomplish as much? I do not want to know the future. Perhaps some of it will be unhappy.
I have made my choice and will cheerfully abide by it. I rather envy your being a man. You
have the world to conquer. A woman--what can she do? She can knead the dough, ply the distaff,
and sit by the lattice and watch and wait."

"Let us postpone such melancholy thoughts until some future day. I have not as yet said anything
that I intended. I wish to tell you how sorry I am that I acted in such a rude way the night
your brother came home. I do not know what made me do so, but I know I have regretted it ever
since. Will you forgive me and may we not be friends?"

"I--I do not know," said Betty, surprised and vaguely troubled by the earnest light in his eyes.

"But why? Surely you will make some little allowance for a naturally quick temper, and you
know you did not--that you were--"

"Yes, I remember I was hasty and unkind. But I made amends, or at least, I tried to do so."

"Try to overlook my stupidity. I will not give up until you forgive me. Consider how much you
can avoid by being generous."

"Very well, then, I will forgive you," said Betty, who had arrived at the conclusion that this
young man was one of determination.

"Thank you. I promise you shall never regret it. And the sprained ankle? It must be well, as
I noticed you danced beautifully."

"I am compelled to believe what the girls say--that you are inclined to the language of compliment.
My ankle is nearly well, thank you. It hurts a little now and then."

"Speaking of your accident reminds me of the day it happened," said Alfred, watching her closely.
He desired to tease her a little, but he was not sure of his ground. "I had been all day in
the woods with nothing but my thoughts--mostly unhappy ones--for company. When I met you I
pretended to be surprised. As a matter of fact I was not, for I had followed your dog. He took
a liking to me and I was extremely pleased, I assure you. Well, I saw your face a moment before
you knew I was as near you. When you heard my footsteps you turned with a relieved and joyous
cry. When you saw whom it was your glad expression changed, and if I had been a hostile Wyandot
you could not have looked more unfriendly. Such a woeful, tear-stained face I never saw."

"Mr. Clarke, please do not speak any more of that," said Betty with dignity. "I desire that
you forget it."

"I will forget all except that it was I who had the happiness of finding you and of helping
you. I cannot forget that. I am sure we should never have been friends but for that accident."

"There is Isaac. He is looking for me," answered Betty, rising.

"Wait a moment longer--please. He will find you," said Alfred, detaining her. "Since you have
been so kind I have grown bolder. May I come over to see you to-morrow?"

He looked straight down into the dark eyes which wavered and fell before he had completed his
question.

"There is Isaac. He cannot see me here. I must go."

"But not before telling me. What is the good of your forgiving me if I may not see you. Please
say yes."

"You may come," answered Betty, half amused and half provoked at his persistence. "I should
think you would know that such permission invariably goes with a young woman's forgiveness."

"Hello, here you are. What a time I have had in finding you," said Isaac, coming up with flushed
face and eyes bright with excitement. "Alfred, what do you mean by hiding the belle of the
dance away like this? I want to dance with you, Betts. I am having a fine time. I have not
danced anything but Indian dances for ages. Sorry to take her away, Alfred. I can see she doesn't
want to go. Ha! Ha!" and with a mischievous look at both of them he led Betty away.

Alfred kept his seat awhile lost in thought. Suddenly he remembered that it would look strange
if he did not make himself agreeable, so he got up and found a partner. He danced with Alice,
Lydia, and the other young ladies. After an hour he slipped away to his room. He wished to
be alone. He wanted to think; to decide whether it would be best for him to stay at the fort,
or ride away in the darkness and never return. With the friendly touch of Betty's hand the
madness with which he had been battling for weeks rushed over him stronger than ever. The thrill
of that soft little palm remained with him, and he pressed the hand it had touched to his lips.

For a long hour he sat by his window. He could dimly see the broad winding river, with its
curtain of pale gray mist, and beyond, the dark outline of the forest. A cool breeze from the
water fanned his heated brow, and the quiet and solitude soothed him.

CHAPTER IV.

"Good morning, Harry. Where are you going so early?" called Betty from the doorway.

A lad was passing down the path in front of Colonel Zane's house as Betty hailed him. He carried
a rifle almost as long as himself.

"Mornin', Betty. I am goin' 'cross the crick fer that turkey I hear gobblin'," he answered,
stopping at the gate and smiling brightly at Betty.

"Hello, Harry Bennet. Going after that turkey? I have heard him several mornings and he must
be a big, healthy gobbler," said Colonel Zane, stepping to the door. "You are going to have
company. Here comes Wetzel."

"Good morning, Lew. Are you too off on a turkey hunt?" said Betty.

"Listen," said the hunter, as he stopped and leaned against the gate. They listened. All was
quiet save for the tinkle of a cow-bell in the pasture adjoining the Colonel's barn. Presently
the silence was broken by a long, shrill, peculiar cry.

"Chug-a-lug, chug-a-lug, chug-a-lug, chug-a-lug-chug."

"Well, it's a turkey, all right, and I'll bet a big gobbler," remarked Colonel Zane, as the
cry ceased.

"Has Jonathan heard it?" asked Wetzel.

"Not that I know of. Why do you ask?" said the Colonel, in a low tone. "Look here, Lew, is
that not a genuine call?"

"Goodbye, Harry, be sure and bring me a turkey," called Betty, as she disappeared.

"I calkilate it's a real turkey," answered the hunter, and motioning the lad to stay behind,
he shouldered his rifle and passed swiftly down the path.

Of all the Wetzel family--a family noted from one end of the frontier to the other--Lewis was
as the most famous.

The early history of West Virginia and Ohio is replete with the daring deeds of this wilderness
roamer, this lone hunter and insatiable Nemesis, justly called the greatest Indian slayer known
to men.

When Lewis was about twenty years old, and his brothers John and Martin little older, they
left their Virginia home for a protracted hunt. On their return they found the smoking ruins
of the home, the mangled remains of father and mother, the naked and violated bodies of their
sisters, and the scalped and bleeding corpse of a baby brother.

Lewis Wetzel swore sleepless and eternal vengeance on the whole Indian race. Terribly did he
carry out that resolution. From that time forward he lived most of the time in the woods, and
an Indian who crossed his trail was a doomed man. The various Indian tribes gave him different
names. The Shawnees called him "Long Knife;" the Hurons, "Destroyer;" the Delawares, "Death
Wind," and any one of these names would chill the heart of the stoutest warrior.

To most of the famed pioneer hunters of the border, Indian fighting was only a side issue--generally
a necessary one--but with Wetzel it was the business of his life. He lived solely to kill Indians.
He plunged recklessly into the strife, and was never content unless roaming the wilderness
solitudes, trailing the savages to their very homes and ambushing the village bridlepath like
a panther waiting for his prey. Often in the gray of the morning the Indians, sleeping around
their camp fire, were awakened by a horrible, screeching yell. They started up in terror only
to fall victims to the tomahawk of their merciless foe, or to hear a rifle shot and get a glimpse
of a form with flying black hair disappearing with wonderful quickness in the forest. Wetzel
always left death behind him, and he was gone before his demoniac yell ceased to echo throughout
the woods. Although often pursued, he invariably eluded the Indians, for he was the fleetest
runner on the border.

For many years he was considered the right hand of the defense of the fort. The Indians held
him in superstitious dread, and the fact that he was known to be in the settlement had averted
more than one attack by the Indians.

Many regarded Wetzel as a savage, a man who was mad for the blood of the red men, and without
one redeeming quality. But this was an unjust opinion. When that restless fever for revenge
left him--it was not always with him--he was quiet and peaceable. To those few who knew him
well he was even amiable. But Wetzel, although known to everyone, cared for few. He spent little
time in the settlements and rarely spoke except when addressed.

Nature had singularly fitted him for his pre-eminent position among scouts and hunters. He
was tall and broad across the shoulders; his strength, agility and endurance were marvelous;
he had an eagle eye, the sagacity of the bloodhound, and that intuitive knowledge which plays
such an important part in a hunter's life. He knew not fear. He was daring where daring was
the wiser part. Crafty, tireless and implacable, Wetzel was incomparable in his vocation.

His long raven-black hair, of which he was vain, when combed out reached to within a foot of
the ground. He had a rare scalp, one for which the Indians would have bartered anything.

A favorite Indian decoy, and the most fatal one, was the imitation of the call of the wild
turkey. It had often happened that men from the settlements who had gone out for a turkey which
had been gobbling, had not returned.

For several mornings Wetzel had heard a turkey call, and becoming suspicious of it, had determined
to satisfy himself. On the east side of the creek hill there was a cavern some fifty or sixty
yards above the water. The entrance to this cavern was concealed by vines and foliage. Wetzel
knew of it, and, crossing the stream some distance above, he made a wide circuit and came up
back of the cave. Here he concealed himself in a clump of bushes and waited. He had not been
there long when directly below him sounded the cry, "Chug-a-lug, Chug-a-lug, Chug-a-lug." At
the same time the polished head and brawny shoulders of an Indian warrior rose out of the cavern.
Peering cautiously around, the savage again gave the peculiar cry, and then sank back out of
sight. Wetzel screened himself safely in his position and watched the savage repeat the action
at least ten times before he made up his mind that the Indian was alone in the cave. When he
had satisfied himself of this he took a quick aim at the twisted tuft of hair and fired. Without
waiting to see the result of his shot--so well did he trust his unerring aim--he climbed down
the steep bank and brushing aside the vines entered the cave. A stalwart Indian lay in the
entrance with his face pressed down on the vines. He still clutched in his sinewy fingers the
buckhorn mouthpiece with which he had made the calls that had resulted in his death.

"Huron," muttered the hunter to himself as he ran the keen edge of his knife around the twisted
tuft of hair and tore off the scalp-lock.

The cave showed evidence of having been inhabited for some time. There was a cunningly contrived
fireplace made of stones, against which pieces of birch bark were placed in such a position
that not a ray of light could get out of the cavern. The bed of black coals between the stones
still smoked; a quantity of parched corn lay on a little rocky shelf which jutted out from
the wall; a piece of jerked meat and a buckskin pouch hung from a peg.

Suddenly Wetzel dropped on his knees and began examining the footprints in the sandy floor
of the cavern. He measured the length and width of the dead warrior's foot. He closely scrutinized
every moccasin print. He crawled to the opening of the cavern and carefully surveyed the moss.

Then he rose to his feet. A remarkable transformation had come over him during the last few
moments. His face had changed; the calm expression was replaced by one sullen and fierce: his
lips were set in a thin, cruel line, and a strange light glittered in his eyes.

He slowly pursued a course lending gradually down to the creek. At intervals he would stop
and listen. The strange voices of the woods were not mysteries to him. They were more familiar
to him than the voices of men.

He recalled that, while on his circuit over the ridge to get behind the cavern, he had heard
the report of a rifle far off in the direction of the chestnut grove, but, as that was a favorite
place of the settlers for shooting squirrels, he had not thought anything of it at the time.
Now it had a peculiar significance. He turned abruptly from the trail he had been following
and plunged down the steep hill. Crossing the creek he took to the cover of the willows, which
grew profusely along the banks, and striking a sort of bridle path he started on a run. He
ran easily, as though accustomed to that mode of travel, and his long strides covered a couple
of miles in short order. Coming to the rugged bluff, which marked the end of the ridge, he
stopped and walked slowly along the edge of the water. He struck the trail of the Indians where
it crossed the creek, just where he expected. There were several moccasin tracks in the wet
sand and, in some of the depressions made by the heels the rounded edges of the imprints were
still smooth and intact. The little pools of muddy water, which still lay in these hollows,
were other indications to his keen eyes that the Indians had passed this point early that morning.

The trail led up the hill and far into the woods. Never in doubt the hunter kept on his course;
like a shadow he passed from tree to tree and from bush to bush; silently, cautiously, but
rapidly he followed the tracks of the Indians. When he had penetrated the dark backwoods of
the Black Forest tangled underbrush, windfalls and gullies crossed his path and rendered fast
trailing impossible. Before these almost impassible barriers he stopped and peered on all sides,
studying the lay of the land, the deadfalls, the gorges, and all the time keeping in mind the
probable route of the redskins. Then he turned aside to avoid the roughest travelling. Sometimes
these detours were only a few hundred feet long; often they were miles; but nearly always he
struck the trail again. This almost superhuman knowledge of the Indian's ways of traversing
the forest, which probably no man could have possessed without giving his life to the hunting
of Indians, was the one feature of Wetzel's woodcraft which placed him so far above other hunters,
and made him so dreaded by the savages.

Descending a knoll he entered a glade where the trees grew farther apart and the underbrush
was only knee high. The black soil showed that the tract of land had been burned over. On the
banks of a babbling brook which wound its way through this open space, the hunter found tracks
which brought an exclamation from him. Clearly defined in the soft earth was the impress of
a white man's moccasin. The footprints of an Indian toe inward. Those of a white man are just
the opposite. A little farther on Wetzel came to a slight crushing of the moss, where he concluded
some heavy body had fallen. As he had seen the tracks of a buck and doe all the way down the
brook he thought it probable one of them had been shot by the white hunter. He found a pool
of blood surrounded by moccasin prints; and from that spot the trail led straight toward the
west, showing that for some reason the Indians had changed their direction.

This new move puzzled the hunter, and he leaned against the trunk of a tree, while he revolved
in his mind the reasons for this abrupt departure--for such he believed it. The trail he had
followed for miles was the devious trail of hunting Indians, stealing slowly and stealthily
along watching for their prey, whether it be man or beast. The trail toward the west was straight
as the crow flies; the moccasin prints that indented the soil were wide apart, and to an inexperienced
eye looked like the track of one Indian. To Wetzel this indicated that the Indians had all
stepped in the tracks of a leader.

As was usually his way, Wetzel decided quickly. He had calculated that there were eight Indians
in all, not counting the chief whom he had shot. This party of Indians had either killed or
captured the white man who had been hunting. Wetzel believed that a part of the Indians would
push on with all possible speed, leaving some of their number to ambush the trail or double
back on it to see if they were pursued.

An hour of patient waiting, in which he never moved from his position, proved the wisdom of
his judgment. Suddenly, away at the other end of the grove, he caught a flash of brown, of
a living, moving something, like the flitting of a bird behind a tree. Was it a bird or a squirrel?
Then again he saw it, almost lost in the shade of the forest. Several minutes passed, in which
Wetzel never moved and hardly breathed. The shadow had disappeared behind a tree. He fixed
his keen eyes on that tree and presently a dark object glided from it and darted stealthily
forward to another tree. One, two, three dark forms followed the first one. They were Indian
warriors, and they moved so quickly that only the eyes of a woodsman like Wetzel could have
discerned their movements at that distance.

Probably most hunters would have taken to their heels while there was yet time. The thought
did not occur to Wetzel. He slowly raised the hammer of his rifle. As the Indians came into
plain view he saw they did not suspect his presence, but were returning on the trail in their
customary cautious manner.

When the first warrior reached a big oak tree some two hundred yards distant, the long, black
barrel of the hunter's rifle began slowly, almost imperceptibly, to rise, and as it reached
a level the savage stepped forward from the tree. With the sharp report of the weapon he staggered
and fell.

Wetzel sprang up and knowing that his only escape was in rapid flight, with his well known
yell, he bounded off at the top of his speed. The remaining Indians discharged their guns at
the fleeing, dodging figure, but without effect. So rapidly did he dart in and out among the
trees that an effectual aim was impossible. Then, with loud yells, the Indians, drawing their
tomahawks, started in pursuit, expecting soon to overtake their victim.

In the early years of his Indian hunting, Wetzel had perfected himself in a practice which
had saved his life many tunes, and had added much to his fame. He could reload his rifle while
running at topmost speed. His extraordinary fleetness enabled him to keep ahead of his pursuers
until his rifle was reloaded. This trick he now employed. Keeping up his uneven pace until
his gun was ready, he turned quickly and shot the nearest Indian dead in his tracks. The next
Indian had by this time nearly come up with him and close enough to throw his tomahawk, which
whizzed dangerously near Wetzel's head. But he leaped forward again and soon his rifle was
reloaded. Every time he looked around the Indians treed, afraid to face his unerring weapon.
After running a mile or more in this manner, he reached an open space in the woods where he
wheeled suddenly on his pursuers. The foremost Indian jumped behind a tree, but, as it did
not entirely screen his body, he, too, fell a victim to the hunter's aim. The Indian must have
been desperately wounded, for his companion now abandoned the chase and went to his assistance.
Together they disappeared in the forest.

Wetzel, seeing that he was no longer pursued, slackened his pace and proceeded thoughtfully
toward the settlement.

            * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

That same day, several hours after Wetzel's departure in quest of the turkey, Alfred Clarke
strolled over from the fort and found Colonel Zane in the yard. The Colonel was industriously
stirring the contents of a huge copper kettle which swung over a brisk wood fire. The honeyed
fragrance of apple-butter mingled with the pungent odor of burning hickory.

"Morning, Alfred, you see they have me at it," was the Colonel's salute.

"So I observe," answered Alfred, as he seated himself on the wood-pile. "What is it you are
churning so vigorously?"

"Apple-butter, my boy, apple-butter. I don't allow even Bessie to help when I am making apple-butter."

"Colonel Zane, I have come over to ask a favor. Ever since you notified us that you intended
sending an expedition up the river I have been worried about my horse Roger. He is too light
for a pack horse, and I cannot take two horses."

"I'll let you have the bay. He is big and strong enough. That black horse of yours is a beauty.
You leave Roger with me and if you never come back I'll be in a fine horse. Ha, Ha! But, seriously,
Clarke, this proposed trip is a hazardous undertaking, and if you would rather stay--"

"You misunderstand me," quickly replied Alfred, who had flushed. "I do not care about myself.
I'll go and take my medicine. But I do mind about my horse."

"That's right. Always think of your horses. I'll have Sam take the best of care of Roger."

"What is the nature of this excursion, and how long shall we be gone?"

"Jonathan will guide the party. He says it will take six weeks if you have pleasant weather.
You are to go by way of Short Creek, where you will help put up a blockhouse. Then you go to
Fort Pitt. There you will embark on a raft with the supplies I need and make the return journey
by water. You will probably smell gunpowder before you get back."

"What shall we do with the horses?"

"Bring them along with you on the raft, of course."

"That is a new way to travel with horses," said Alfred, looking dubiously at the swift river.
"Will there be any way to get news from Fort Henry while we are away?"

"Yes, there will be several runners."

"Mr. Clarke, I am going to feed my pets. Would you like to see them?" asked a voice which brought
Alfred to his feet. He turned and saw Betty. Her dog followed her, carrying a basket.

"I shall be delighted," answered Alfred. "Have you more pets than Tige and Madcap?"

"Oh, yes, indeed. I have a bear, six squirrels, one of them white, and some pigeons."

Betty led the way to an enclosure adjoining Colonel Zane's barn. It was about twenty feet square,
made of pine saplings which had been split and driven firmly into the ground. As Betty took
down a bar and opened the small gate a number of white pigeons fluttered down from the roof
of the barn, several of them alighting on her shoulders. A half-grown black bear came out of
a kennel and shuffled toward her. He was unmistakably glad to see her, but he avoided going
near Tige, and looked doubtfully at the young man. But after Alfred had stroked his head and
had spoken to him he seemed disposed to be friendly, for he sniffed around Alfred's knees and
then stood up and put his paws against the young man's shoulders.

"Here, Caesar, get down," said Betty. "He always wants to wrestle, especially with anyone of
whom he is not suspicious. He is very tame and will do almost anything. Indeed, you would marvel
at his intelligence. He never forgets an injury. If anyone plays a trick on him you may be
sure that person will not get a second opportunity. The night we caught him Tige chased him
up a tree and Jonathan climbed the tree and lassoed him. Ever since he has evinced a hatred
of Jonathan, and if I should leave Tige alone with him there would be a terrible fight. But
for that I could allow Caesar to run free about the yard."

"He looks bright and sagacious," remarked Alfred.

"He is, but sometimes he gets into mischief. I nearly died laughing one day. Bessie, my brother's
wife, you know, had the big kettle on the fire, just as you saw it a moment ago, only this
time she was boiling down maple syrup. Tige was out with some of the men and I let Caesar loose
awhile. If there is anything he loves it is maple sugar, so when he smelled the syrup he pulled
down the kettle and the hot syrup went all over his nose. Oh, his howls were dreadful to hear.
The funniest part about it was he seemed to think it was intentional, for he remained sulky
and cross with me for two weeks."

"I can understand your love for animals," said Alfred. "I think there are many interesting
things about wild creatures. There are comparatively few animals down in Virginia where I used
to live, and my opportunities to study them have been limited."

"Here are my squirrels," said Betty, unfastening the door of a cage. A number of squirrels
ran out. Several jumped to the ground. One perched on top of the box. Another sprang on Betty's
shoulder. "I fasten them up every night, for I'm afraid the weasels and foxes will get them.
The white squirrel is the only albino we have seen around here. It took Jonathan weeks to trap
him, but once captured he soon grew tame. Is he not pretty?"

"He certainly is. I never saw one before; in fact, I did not know such a beautiful little animal
existed," answered Alfred, looking in admiration at the graceful creature, as he leaped from
the shelf to Betty's arm and ate from her hand, his great, bushy white tail arching over his
back and his small pink eyes shining.

"There! Listen," said Betty. "Look at the fox squirrel, the big brownish red one. I call him
the Captain, because he always wants to boss the others. I had another fox squirrel, older
than this fellow, and he ran things to suit himself, until one day the grays united their forces
and routed him. I think they would have killed him had I not freed him. Well, this one is commencing
the same way. Do you hear that odd clicking noise? That comes from the Captain's teeth, and
he is angry and jealous because I show so much attention to this one. He always does that,
and he would fight too if I were not careful. It is a singular fact, though, that the white
squirrel has not even a little pugnacity. He either cannot fight, or he is too well behaved.
Here, Mr. Clarke, show Snowball this nut, and then hide it in your pocket, and see him find it."

Alfred did as he was told, except that while he pretended to put the nut in his pocket he really
kept it concealed in his hand.

The pet squirrel leaped lightly on Alfred's shoulder, ran over his breast, peeped in all his
pockets, and even pushed his cap to one side of his head. Then he ran down Alfred's arm, sniffed
in his coat sleeve, and finally wedged a cold little nose between his closed fingers.

"There, he has found it, even though you did not play fair," said Betty, laughing gaily.

Alfred never forgot the picture Betty made standing there with the red cap on her dusky hair,
and the loving smile upon her face as she talked to her pets. A white fan-tail pigeon had alighted
on her shoulder and was picking daintily at the piece of cracker she held between her lips.
The squirrels were all sitting up, each with a nut in his little paws, and each with an alert
and cunning look in the corner of his eye, to prevent, no doubt, being surprised out of a portion
of his nut. Caesar was lying on all fours, growling and tearing at his breakfast, while the
dog looked on with a superior air, as if he knew they would not have had any breakfast but for him.

"Are you fond of canoeing and fishing?" asked Betty, as they returned to the house.

"Indeed I am. Isaac has taken me out on the river often. Canoeing may be pleasant for a girl,
but I never knew one who cared for fishing."

"Now you behold one. I love dear old Izaak Walton. Of course, you have read his books?"

"I am ashamed to say I have not."

"And you say you are a fisherman? Well, you haste a great pleasure in store, as well as an
opportunity to learn something of the 'contemplative man's recreation.' I shall lend you the
books."

"I have not seen a book since I came to Fort Henry."

"I have a fine little library, and you are welcome to any of my books. But to return to fishing.
I love it, and yet I nearly always allow the fish to go free. Sometimes I bring home a pretty
sunfish, place him in a tub of water, watch him and try to tame him. But I must admit failure.
It is the association which makes fishing so delightful. The canoe gliding down a swift stream,
the open air, the blue sky, the birds and trees and flowers--these are what I love. Come and
see my canoe."

Thus Betty rattled on as she led the way through the sitting-room and kitchen to Colonel Zane's
magazine and store-house which opened into the kitchen. This little low-roofed hut contained
a variety of things. Boxes, barrels and farming implements filled one corner; packs of dried
skins were piled against the wall; some otter and fox pelts were stretched on the wall, and
a number of powder kegs lined a shelf. A slender canoe swung from ropes thrown over the rafters.
Alfred slipped it out of the loops and carried it outside.

The canoe was a superb specimen of Indian handiwork. It had a length of fourteen feet and was
made of birch bark, stretched over a light framework of basswood. The bow curved gracefully
upward, ending in a carved image representing a warrior's head. The sides were beautifully
ornamented and decorated in fanciful Indian designs.

"My brother's Indian guide, Tomepomehala, a Shawnee chief, made it for me. You see this design
on the bow. The arrow and the arm mean in Indian language, 'The race is to the swift and the
strong.' The canoe is very light. See, I can easily carry it," said Betty, lifting it from
the grass.

She ran into the house and presently came out with two rods, a book and a basket.

"These are Jack's rods. He cut them out of the heart of ten-year-old basswood trees, so he
says. We must be careful of them."

Alfred examined the rods with the eye of a connoisseur and pronounced them perfect.

"These rods have been made by a lover of the art. Anyone with half an eye could see that. What
shall we use for bait?" he said.

"Sam got me some this morning."

"Did you expect to go?" asked Alfred, looking up in surprise.

"Yes, I intended going, and as you said you were coming over, I meant to ask you to accompany me."

"That was kind of you."

"Where are you young people going?" called Colonel Zane, stopping in his task.

"We are going down to the sycamore," answered Betty.

"Very well. But be certain and stay on this side of the creek and do not go out on the river,"
said the Colonel.

"Why, Eb, what do you mean? One might think Mr. Clarke and I were children," exclaimed Betty.

"You certainly aren't much more. But that is not my reason. Never mind the reason. Do as I
say or do not go," said Colonel Zane.

"All right, brother. I shall not forget," said Betty, soberly, looking at the Colonel. He had
not spoken in his usual teasing way, and she was at a loss to understand him. "Come, Mr. Clarke,
you carry the canoe and follow me down this path and look sharp for roots and stones or you
may trip."

"Where is Isaac?" asked Alfred, as he lightly swung the canoe over his shoulder.

"He took his rifle and went up to the chestnut grove an hour or more ago."

A few minutes' walk down the willow skirted path and they reached the creek. Here it was a
narrow stream, hardly fifty feet wide, shallow, and full of stones over which the clear brown
water rushed noisily.

"Is it not rather risky going down there?" asked Alfred as he noticed the swift current and
the numerous boulders poking treacherous heads just above the water.

"Of course. That is the great pleasure in canoeing," said Betty, calmly. "If you would rather
walk--"

"No, I'll go if I drown. I was thinking of you."

"It is safe enough if you can handle a paddle," said Betty, with a smile at his hesitation.
"And, of course, if your partner in the canoe sits trim."

"Perhaps you had better allow me to use the paddle. Where did you learn to steer a canoe?"

"I believe you are actually afraid. Why, I was born on the Potomac, and have used a paddle
since I was old enough to lift one. Come, place the canoe in here and we will keep to the near
shore until we reach the bend. There is a little fall just below this and I love to shoot it."

He steadied the canoe with one hand while he held out the other to help her, but she stepped
nimbly aboard without his assistance.

"Wait a moment while I catch some crickets and grasshoppers."

"Gracious! What a fisherman. Don't you know we have had frost?"

"That's so," said Alfred, abashed by her simple remark.

"But you might find some crickets under those logs," said Betty. She laughed merrily at the
awkward spectacle made by Alfred crawling over the ground, improvising a sort of trap out of
his hat, and pouncing down on a poor little insect.

"Now, get in carefully, and give the canoe a push. There, we are off," she said, taking up
the paddle.

The little bark glided slowly down stream at first hugging the bank as though reluctant to
trust itself to the deeper water, and then gathering headway as a few gentle strokes of the
paddle swerved it into the current. Betty knelt on one knee and skillfully plied the paddle,
using the Indian stroke in which the paddle was not removed from the water.

"This is great!" exclaimed Alfred, as he leaned back in the bow facing her. "There is nothing
more to be desired. This beautiful clear stream, the air so fresh, the gold lined banks, the
autumn leaves, a guide who--"

"Look," said Betty. "There is the fall over which we must pass."

He looked ahead and saw that they were swiftly approaching two huge stones that reared themselves
high out of the water. They were only a few yards apart and surrounded by smaller rocks, about
high the water rushed white with foam.

"Please do not move!" cried Betty, her eyes shining bright with excitement.

Indeed, the situation was too novel for Alfred to do anything but feel a keen enjoyment. He
had made up his mind that he was sure to get a ducking, but, as he watched Betty's easy, yet
vigorous sweeps with the paddle, and her smiling, yet resolute lips, he felt reassured. He
could see that the fall was not a great one, only a few feet, but one of those glancing sheets
of water like a mill race, and he well knew that if they struck a stone disaster would be theirs.
Twenty feet above the white-capped wave which marked the fall, Betty gave a strong forward
pull on the paddle, a deep stroke which momentarily retarded their progress even in that swift
current, and then, a short backward stroke, far under the stern of the canoe, and the little
vessel turned straight, almost in the middle of the course between the two rocks. As she raised
her paddle into the canoe and smiled at the fascinated young man, the bow dipped, and with
that peculiar downward movement, that swift, exhilarating rush so dearly loved by canoeists,
they shot down the smooth incline of water, were lost for a moment in a white cloud of mist,
and in another they coated into a placid pool.

"Was not that delightful?" she asked, with just a little conscious pride glowing in her dark eyes.

"Miss Zane, it was more than that. I apologize for my suspicions. You have admirable skill.
I only wish that on my voyage down the River of Life I could have such a sure eye and hand
to guide me through the dangerous reefs and rapids."

"You are poetical," said Betty, who laughed, and at the same time blushed slightly. "But you
are right about the guide. Jonathan says 'always get a good guide,' and as guiding is his work
he ought to know. But this has nothing in common with fishing, and here is my favorite place
under the old sycamore."

With a long sweep of the paddle she ran the canoe alongside a stone beneath a great tree which
spread its long branches over the creek and shaded the pool. It was a grand old tree and must
have guarded that sylvan spot for centuries. The gnarled and knotted trunk was scarred and
seamed with the ravages of time. The upper part was dead. Long limbs extended skyward, gaunt
and bare, like the masts of a storm beaten vessel. The lower branches were white and shining,
relieved here and there by brown patches of bark which curled up like old parchment as they
shelled away from the inner bark. The ground beneath the tree was carpeted with a velvety moss
with little plots of grass and clusters of maiden-hair fern growing on it. From under an overhanging
rock on the bank a spring of crystal water bubbled forth.

Alfred rigged up the rods, and baiting a hook directed Betty to throw her line well out into
the current and let it float down into the eddy. She complied, and hardly had the line reached
the circle of the eddy, where bits of white foam floated round and round, when there was a
slight splash, a scream from Betty and she was standing up in the canoe holding tightly to her rod.

"Be careful!" exclaimed Alfred. "Sit down. You will have the canoe upset in a moment. Hold
your rod steady and keep the line taut. That's right. Now lead him round toward me. There,"
and grasping the line he lifted a fine rock bass over the side of the canoe.

"Oh! I always get so intensely excited," breathlessly cried Betty. "I can't help it. Jonathan
always declares he will never take me fishing again. Let me see the fish. It's a goggle-eye.
Isn't he pretty? Look how funny he bats his eyes," and she laughed gleefully as she gingerly
picked up the fish by the tail and dropped him into the water. "Now, Mr. Goggle-eye, if you
are wise, in future you will beware of tempting looking bugs."

For an hour they had splendid sport. The pool teemed with sunfish. The bait would scarcely
touch the water when the little orange colored fellows would rush for it. Now and then a black
bass darted wickedly through the school of sunfish and stole the morsel from them. Or a sharp-nosed
fiery-eyed pickerel--vulture of the water--rising to the surface, and, supreme in his indifference
to man or fish, would swim lazily round until he had discovered the cause of all this commotion
among the smaller fishes, and then, opening wide his jaws would take the bait with one voracious
snap.

Presently something took hold of Betty's line and moved out toward the middle of the pool.
She struck and the next instant her rod was bent double and the tip under water.

"Pull your rod up!" shouted Alfred. "Here, hand it to me."

But it was too late. A surge right and left, a vicious tug, and Betty's line floated on the
surface of the water.

"Now, isn't that too bad? He has broken my line. Goodness, I never before felt such a strong
fish. What shall I do?"

"You should be thankful you were not pulled in. I have been in a state of fear ever since we
commenced fishing. You move round in this canoe as though it were a raft. Let me paddle out
to that little ripple and try once there; then we will stop. I know you are tired."

Near the center of the pool a half submerged rock checked the current and caused a little ripple
of the water. Several times Alfred had seen the dark shadow of a large fish followed by a swirl
of the water, and the frantic leaping of little bright-sided minnows in all directions. As
his hook, baited with a lively shiner, floated over the spot, a long, yellow object shot from
out that shaded lair. There was a splash, not unlike that made by the sharp edge of a paddle
impelled by a short, powerful stroke, the minnow disappeared, and the broad tail of the fish
flapped on the water. The instant Alfred struck, the water boiled and the big fish leaped clear
into the air, shaking himself convulsively to get rid of the hook. He made mad rushes up and
down the pool, under the canoe, into the swift current and against the rocks, but all to no
avail. Steadily Alfred increased the strain on the line and gradually it began to tell, for
the plunges of the fish became shorter and less frequent. Once again, in a last magnificent
effort, he leaped straight into the air, and failing to get loose, gave up the struggle and
was drawn gasping and exhausted to the side of the canoe.

"Are you afraid to touch him?" asked Alfred.

"Indeed I am not," answered Betty.

"Then run your hand gently down the line, slip your fingers in under his gills and lift him
over the side carefully."

"Five pounds," exclaimed Alfred, when the fish lay at his feet. "This is the largest black
bass I ever caught. It is pity to take such a beautiful fish out of his element."

"Let him go, then. May I?" said Betty.

"No, you have allowed them all to go, even the pickerel which I think ought to be killed. We
will keep this fellow alive, and place him in that nice clear pool over in the fort-yard."

"I like to watch you play a fish," said Betty. "Jonathan always hauls them right out. You are
so skillful. You let this fish run so far and then you checked him. Then you gave him a line
to go the other way, and no doubt he felt free once more when you stopped him again."

"You are expressing a sentiment which has been, is, and always will be particularly pleasing
to the fair sex, I believe," observed Alfred, smiling rather grimly as he wound up his line.

"Would you mind being explicit?" she questioned.

Alfred had laughed and was about to answer when the whip-like crack of a rifle came from the
hillside. The echoes of the shot reverberated from hill to hill and were finally lost far down
the valley.

"What can that be?" exclaimed Alfred anxiously, recalling Colonel Zane's odd manner when they
were about to leave the house.

"I am not sure, but I think that is my turkey, unless Lew Wetzel happened to miss his aim,"
said Betty, laughing. "And that is such an unprecedented thing that it can hardly be considered.
Turkeys are scarce this season. Jonathan says the foxes and wolves ate up the broods. Lew heard
this turkey calling and he made little Harry Bennet, who had started out with his gun, stay
at home and went after Mr. Gobbler himself."

"Is that all? Well, that is nothing to get alarmed about, is it? I actually had a feeling of
fear, or a presentiment, we might say."

They beached the canoe and spread out the lunch in the shade near the spring. Alfred threw
himself at length upon the grass and Betty sat leaning against the tree. She took a biscuit
in one hand, a pickle in the other, and began to chat volubly to Alfred of her school life,
and of Philadelphia, and the friends she had made there. At length, remarking his abstraction,
she said: "You are not listening to me."

"I beg your pardon. My thoughts did wander. I was thinking of my mother. Something about you
reminds me of her. I do not know what, unless it is that little mannerism you have of pursing
up your lips when you hesitate or stop to think."

"Tell me of her," said Betty, seeing his softened mood.

"My mother was very beautiful, and as good as she was lovely. I never had a care until my father
died. Then she married again, and as I did not get on with my step-father I ran away from home.
I have not been in Virginia for four years."

"Do you get homesick?"

"Indeed I do. While at Fort Pitt I used to have spells of the blues which lasted for days.
For a time I felt more contented here. But I fear the old fever of restlessness will come over
me again. I can speak freely to you because I know you will understand, and I feel sure of
your sympathy. My father wanted me to be a minister. He sent me to the theological seminary
at Princeton, where for two years I tried to study. Then my father died. I went home and looked
after things until my mother married again. That changed everything for me. I ran away and
have since been a wanderer. I feel that I am not lazy, that I am not afraid of work, but four
years have drifted by and I have nothing to show for it. I am discouraged. Perhaps that is
wrong, but tell me how I can help it. I have not the stoicism of the hunter, Wetzel, nor have
I the philosophy of your brother. I could not be content to sit on my doorstep and smoke my
pipe and watch the wheat and corn grow. And then, this life of the borderman, environed as
it is by untold dangers, leads me, fascinates me, and yet appalls me with the fear that here
I shall fall a victim to an Indian's bullet or spear, and find a nameless grave."

A long silence ensued. Alfred had spoken quietly, but with an undercurrent of bitterness that
saddened Betty. For the first time she saw a shadow of pain in his eyes. She looked away down
the valley, not seeing the brown and gold hills boldly defined against the blue sky, nor the
beauty of the river as the setting sun cast a ruddy glow on the water. Her companion's words
had touched an unknown chord in her heart. When finally she turned to answer him a beautiful
light shone in her eyes, a light that shines not on land or sea--the light of woman's hope.

"Mr. Clarke," she said, and her voice was soft and low, "I am only a girl, but I can understand.
You are unhappy. Try to rise above it. Who knows what will befall this little settlement? It
may be swept away by the savages, and it may grow to be a mighty city. It must take that chance.
So must you, so must we all take chances. You are here. Find your work and do it cheerfully,
honestly, and let the future take care of itself. And let me say--do not be offended--beware
of idleness and drink. They are as great a danger--nay, greater than the Indians."

"Miss Zane, if you were to ask me not to drink I would never touch a drop again," said Alfred,
earnestly.

"I did not ask that," answered Betty, flushing slightly. "But I shall remember it as a promise
and some day I may ask it of you."

He looked wonderingly at the girl beside him. He had spent most of his life among educated
and cultured people. He had passed several years in the backwoods. But with all his experience
with people he had to confess that this young woman was as a revelation to him. She could ride
like an Indian and shoot like a hunter. He had heard that she could run almost as swiftly as
her brothers. Evidently she feared nothing, for he had just seen an example of her courage
in a deed that had tried even his own nerve, and, withal, she was a bright, happy girl, earnest
and true, possessing all the softer graces of his sisters, and that exquisite touch of feminine
delicacy and refinement which appeals more to men than any other virtue.

"Have you not met Mr. Miller before he came here from Fort Pitt?" asked Betty.

"Why do you ask?"

"I think he mentioned something of the kind."

"What else did he say?"

"Why--Mr. Clarke, I hardly remember."

"I see," said Alfred, his face darkening. "He has talked about me. I do not care what he said.
I knew him at Fort Pitt, and we had trouble there. I venture to say he has told no one about
it. He certainly would not shine in the story. But I am not a tattler."

"It is not very difficult to see that you do not like him. Jonathan does not, either. He says
Mr. Miller was friendly with McKee, and the notorious Simon Girty, the soldiers who deserted
from Fort Pitt and went to the Indians. The girls like him however."

"Usually if a man is good looking and pleasant that is enough for the girls. I noticed that
he paid you a great deal of attention at the dance. He danced three times with you."

"Did he? How observing you are," said Betty, giving him a little sidelong glance. "Well, he
is very agreeable, and he dances better than many of the young men."

"I wonder if Wetzel got the turkey. I have heard no more shots," said Alfred, showing plainly
that he wished to change the subject.

"Oh, look there! Quick!" exclaimed Betty, pointing toward the hillside.

He looked in the direction indicated and saw a doe and a spotted fawn wading into the shallow
water. The mother stood motionless a moment, with head erect and long ears extended. Then she
drooped her graceful head and drank thirstily of the cool water. The fawn splashed playfully
round while its mother was drinking. It would dash a few paces into the stream and then look
back to see if its mother approved. Evidently she did not, for she would stop her drinking
and call the fawn back to her side with a soft, crooning noise. Suddenly she raised her head,
the long ears shot up, and she seemed to sniff the air. She waded through the deeper water
to get round a rocky bluff which ran out into the creek. Then she turned and called the little
one. The fawn waded until the water reached its knees, then stopped and uttered piteous little
bleats. Encouraged by the soft crooning it plunged into the deep water and with great splashing
and floundering managed to swim the short distance. Its slender legs shook as it staggered
up the bank. Exhausted or frightened, it shrank close to its mother. Together they disappeared
in the willows which fringed the side of the hill.

"Was not that little fellow cute? I have had several fawns, but have never had the heart to
keep them," said Betty. Then, as Alfred made no motion to speak, she continued:

"You do not seem very talkative."

"I have nothing to say. You will think me dull. The fact is when I feel deepest I am least
able to express myself."

"I will read to you." said Betty taking up the book. He lay back against the grassy bank and
gazed dreamily at the many hued trees on the little hillside; at the bare rugged sides of McColloch's
Rock which frowned down upon them. A silver-breasted eagle sailed slowly round and round in
the blue sky, far above the bluff. Alfred wondered what mysterious power sustained that solitary
bird as he floated high in the air without perceptible movement of his broad wings. He envied
the king of birds his reign over that illimitable space, his far-reaching vision, and his freedom.
Round and round the eagle soared, higher and higher, with each perfect circle, and at last,
for an instant poising as lightly as if he were about to perch on his lonely crag, he arched
his wings and swooped down through the air with the swiftness of a falling arrow.

Betty's low voice, the water rushing so musically over the falls, the great yellow leaves falling
into the pool, the gentle breeze stirring the clusters of goldenrod--all came softly to Alfred
as he lay there with half closed eyes.

The time slipped swiftly by as only such time can.

"I fear the melancholy spirit of the day has prevailed upon you," said Betty, half wistfully.
"You did not know I had stopped reading, and I do not believe you heard my favorite poem. I
have tried to give you a pleasant afternoon and have failed."

"No, no," said Alfred, looking at her with a blue flame in his eyes. "The afternoon has been
perfect. I have forgotten my role, and have allowed you to see my real self, something I have
tried to hide from all."

"And are you always sad when you are sincere?"

"Not always. But I am often sad. Is it any wonder? Is not all nature sad? Listen! There is
the song of the oriole. Breaking in on the stillness it is mournful. The breeze is sad, the
brook is sad, this dying Indian summer day is sad. Life itself is sad."

"Oh, no. Life is beautiful."

"You are a child," said he, with a thrill in his deep voice "I hope you may always be as you
are to-day, in heart, at least."

"It grows late. See, the shadows are falling. We must go."

"You know I am going away to-morrow. I don't want to go. Perhaps that is why I have been such
poor company today. I have a presentiment of evil I am afraid I may never come back."

"I am sorry you must go."

"Do you really mean that?" asked Alfred, earnestly, bending toward her "You know it is a very
dangerous undertaking. Would you care if I never returned?"

She looked up and their eyes met. She had raised her head haughtily, as if questioning his
right to speak to her in that manner, but as she saw the unspoken appeal in his eyes her own
wavered and fell while a warm color crept into her cheek.

"Yes, I would be sorry," she said, gravely. Then, after a moment: "You must portage the canoe
round the falls, and from there we can paddle back to the path."

The return trip made, they approached the house. As they turned the corner they saw Colonel
Zane standing at the door talking to Wetzel.

They saw that the Colonel looked pale and distressed, and the face of the hunter was dark and
gloomy.

"Lew, did you get my turkey?" said Betty, after a moment of hesitation. A nameless fear filled
her breast.

For answer Wetzel threw back the flaps of his coat and there at his belt hung a small tuft
of black hair. Betty knew at once it was the scalp-lock of an Indian. Her face turned white
and she placed a hand on the hunter's arm.

"What do you mean? That is an Indian's scalp. Lew, you look so strange. Tell me, is it because
we went off in the canoe and have been in danger?"

"Betty, Isaac has been captured again," said the Colonel.

"Oh, no, no, no," cried Betty in agonized tones, and wringing her hands. Then, excitedly, "Something
can be done; you must pursue them. Oh, Lew, Mr. Clarke, cannot you rescue him? They have not
had time to go far."

"Isaac went to the chestnut grove this morning. If he had stayed there he would not have been
captured. But he went far into the Black Forest. The turkey call we heard across the creek
was made by a Wyandot concealed in the cave. Lewis tells me that a number of Indians have camped
there for days. He shot the one who was calling and followed the others until he found where
they had taken Isaac's trail."

Betty turned to the younger man with tearful eyes, and with beseeching voice implored them
to save her brother.

"I am ready to follow you," said Clarke to Wetzel.

The hunter shook his head, but did not answer.

"It is that hateful White Crane," passionately burst out Betty, as the Colonel's wife led her
weeping into the house.

"Did you get more than one shot at them?" asked Clarke.

The hunter nodded, and the slight, inscrutable smile flitted across his stern features. He
never spoke of his deeds. For this reason many of the thrilling adventures which he must have
had will forever remain unrevealed. That evening there was sadness at Colonel Zane's supper
table. They felt the absence of the Colonel's usual spirits, his teasing of Betty, and his
cheerful conversation. He had nothing to say. Betty sat at the table a little while, and then
got up and left the room saying she could not eat. Jonathan, on hearing of his brother's recapture,
did not speak, but retired in gloomy silence. Silas was the only one of the family who was
not utterly depressed. He said it could have been a great deal worse; that they must make the
best of it, and that the sooner Isaac married his Indian Princess the better for his scalp
and for the happiness of all concerned.

"I remember Myeerah very well," he said. "It was eight years ago, and she was only a child.
Even then she was very proud and willful, and the loveliest girl I ever laid eyes on."

Alfred Clarke staid late at Colonel Zane's that night. Before going away for so many weeks
he wished to have a few more moments alone with Betty. But a favorable opportunity did not
present itself during the evening, so when he had bade them all goodbye and goodnight, except
Betty, who opened the door for him, he said softly to her:

"It is bright moonlight outside. Come, please, and walk to the gate with me."

A full moon shone serenely down on hill and dale, flooding the valley with its pure white light
and bathing the pastures in its glory; at the foot of the bluff the waves of the river gleamed
like myriads of stars all twinkling and dancing on a bed of snowy clouds. Thus illumined the
river wound down the valley, its brilliance growing fainter and fainter until at last, resembling
the shimmering of a silver thread which joined the earth to heaven, it disappeared in the horizon.

"I must say goodbye," said Alfred, as they reached the gate.

"Friends must part. I am sorry you must go, Mr. Clarke, and I trust you may return safe. It
seems only yesterday that you saved my brother's life, and I was so grateful and happy. Now
he is gone."

"You should not think about it so much nor brood over it," answered the young man. "Grieving
will not bring him back nor do you any good. It is not nearly so bad as if he had been captured
by some other tribe. Wetzel assures us that Isaac was taken alive. Please do not grieve."

"I have cried until I cannot cry any more. I am so unhappy. We were children together, and
I have always loved him better than any one since my mother died. To have him back again and
then to lose him! Oh! I cannot bear it."

She covered her face with her hands and a low sob escaped her.

"Don't, don't grieve," he said in an unsteady voice, as he took the little hands in his and
pulled them away from her face.

Betty trembled. Something in his voice, a tone she had never heard before startled her. She
looked up at him half unconscious that he still held her hands in his. Never had she appeared
so lovely.

"You cannot understand my feelings."

"I loved my mother."

"But you have not lost her. That makes all the difference."

"I want to comfort you and I am powerless. I am unable to say what--I--"

He stopped short. As he stood gazing down into her sweet face, burning, passionate words came
to his lips; but he was dumb; he could not speak. All day long he had been living in a dream.
Now he realized that but a moment remained for him to be near the girl he loved so well. He
was leaving her, perhaps never to see her again, or to return to find her another's. A fierce
pain tore his heart.

"You--you are holding my hands," faltered Betty, in a doubtful, troubled voice. She looked
up into his face and saw that it was pale with suppressed emotion.

Alfred was mad indeed. He forgot everything. In that moment the world held nothing for him
save that fair face. Her eyes, uplifted to his in the moonlight, beamed with a soft radiance.
They were honest eyes, just now filled with innocent sadness and regret, but they drew him
with irresistible power. Without realizing in the least what he was doing he yielded to the
impulse. Bending his head he kissed the tremulous lips.

"Oh," whispered Betty, standing still as a statue and looking at him with wonderful eyes. Then,
as reason returned, a hot flush dyed her face, and wrenching her hands free she struck him
across the cheek.

"For God's sake, Betty, I did not mean to do that! Wait. I have something to tell you. For
pity's sake, let me explain," he cried, as the full enormity of his offence dawned upon him.

Betty was deaf to the imploring voice, for she ran into the house and slammed the door.

He called to her, but received no answer. He knocked on the door, but it remained closed. He
stood still awhile, trying to collect his thoughts, and to find a way to undo the mischief
he had wrought. When the real significance of his act came to him he groaned in spirit. What
a fool he had been! Only a few short hours and he must start on a perilous journey, leaving
the girl he loved in ignorance of his real intentions. Who was to tell her that he loved her?
Who was to tell her that it was because his whole heart and soul had gone to her that he had
kissed her?

With bowed head he slowly walked away toward the fort, totally oblivious of the fact that a
young girl, with hands pressed tightly over her breast to try to still a madly beating heart,
watched him from her window until he disappeared into the shadow of the block-house.

Alfred paced up and down his room the four remaining hours of that eventful day. When the light
was breaking in at the east and dawn near at hand he heard the rough voices of men and the
tramping of iron-shod hoofs. The hour of his departure was at hand.

He sat down at his table and by the aid of the dim light from a pine knot he wrote a hurried
letter to Betty. A little hope revived in his heart as he thought that perhaps all might yet
be well. Surely some one would be up to whom he could intrust the letter, and if no one he
would run over and slip it under the door of Colonel Zane's house.

In the gray of the early morning Alfred rode out with the daring band of heavily armed men,
all grim and stern, each silent with the thought of the man who knows he may never return.
Soon the settlement was left far behind.

CHAPTER V.

During the last few days, in which the frost had cracked open the hickory nuts, and in which
the squirrels had been busily collecting and storing away their supply of nuts for winter use,
it had been Isaac's wont to shoulder his rifle, walk up the hill, and spend the morning in
the grove.

On this crisp autumn morning he had started off as usual, and had been called back by Col.
Zane, who advised him not to wander far from the settlement. This admonition, kind and brotherly
though it was, annoyed Isaac. Like all the Zanes he had born in him an intense love for the
solitude of the wilderness. There were times when nothing could satisfy him but the calm of
the deep woods.

One of these moods possessed him now. Courageous to a fault and daring where daring was not
always the wiser part, Isaac lacked the practical sense of the Colonel and the cool judgment
of Jonathan. Impatient of restraint, independent in spirit, and it must be admitted, in his
persistence in doing as he liked instead of what he ought to do, he resembled Betty more than
he did his brothers.

Feeling secure in his ability to take care of himself, for he knew he was an experienced hunter
and woodsman, he resolved to take a long tramp in the forest. This resolution was strengthened
by the fact that he did not believe what the Colonel and Jonathan had told him--that it was
not improbable some of the Wyandot braves were lurking in the vicinity, bent on killing or
recapturing him. At any rate he did not fear it.

Once in the shade of the great trees the fever of discontent left him, and, forgetting all
except the happiness of being surrounded by the silent oaks, he penetrated deeper and deeper
into the forest. The brushing of a branch against a tree, the thud of a falling nut, the dart
of a squirrel, and the sight of a bushy tail disappearing round a limb--all these things which
indicated that the little gray fellows were working in the tree-tops, and which would usually
have brought Isaac to a standstill, now did not seem to interest him. At times he stooped to
examine the tender shoots growing at the foot of a sassafras tree. Then, again, he closely
examined marks he found in the soft banks of the streams.

He went on and on. Two hours of this still-hunting found him on the bank of a shallow gully
through which a brook went rippling and babbling over the mossy green stones. The forest was
dense here; rugged oaks and tall poplars grew high over the tops of the first growth of white
oaks and beeches; the wild grapevines which coiled round the trees like gigantic serpents,
spread out in the upper branches and obscured the sun; witch-hopples and laurel bushes grew
thickly; monarchs of the forest, felled by some bygone storm, lay rotting on the ground; and
in places the wind-falls were so thick and high as to be impenetrable.

Isaac hesitated. He realized that he had plunged far into the Black Forest. Here it was gloomy;
a dreamy quiet prevailed, that deep calm of the wilderness, unbroken save for the distant note
of the hermit-thrush, the strange bird whose lonely cry, given at long intervals, pierced the
stillness. Although Isaac had never seen one of these birds, he was familiar with that cry
which was never heard except in the deepest woods, far from the haunts of man.

A black squirrel ran down a tree and seeing the hunter scampered away in alarm. Isaac knew
the habits of the black squirrel, that it was a denizen of the wildest woods and frequented
only places remote from civilization. The song of the hermit and the sight of the black squirrel
caused Isaac to stop and reflect, with the result that he concluded he had gone much farther
from the fort than he had intended. He turned to retrace his steps when a faint sound from
down the ravine came to his sharp ears.

There was no instinct to warn him that a hideously painted face was raised a moment over the
clump of laurel bushes to his left, and that a pair of keen eyes watched every move he made.

Unconscious of impending evil Isaac stopped and looked around him. Suddenly above the musical
babble of the brook and the rustle of the leaves by the breeze came a repetition of the sound.
He crouched close by the trunk of a tree and strained his ears. All was quiet for some moments.
Then he heard the patter, patter of little hoofs coming down the stream. Nearer and nearer
they came. Sometimes they were almost inaudible and again he heard them clearly and distinctly.
Then there came a splashing and the faint hollow sound caused by hard hoofs striking the stones
in shallow water. Finally the sounds ceased.

Cautiously peering from behind the tree Isaac saw a doe standing on the bank fifty yards down
the brook. Trembling she had stopped as if in doubt or uncertainty. Her ears pointed straight
upward, and she lifted one front foot from the ground like a thoroughbred pointer. Isaac knew
a doe always led the way through the woods and if there were other deer they would come up
unless warned by the doe. Presently the willows parted and a magnificent buck with wide spreading
antlers stepped out and stood motionless on the bank. Although they were down the wind Isaac
knew the deer suspected some hidden danger. They looked steadily at the clump of laurels at
Isaac's left, a circumstance he remarked at the time, but did not understand the real significance
of until long afterward.

Following the ringing report of Isaac's rifle the buck sprang almost across the stream, leaped
convulsively up the bank, reached the top, and then his strength failing, slid down into the
stream, where, in his dying struggles, his hoofs beat the water into white foam. The doe had
disappeared like a brown flash.

Isaac, congratulating himself on such a fortunate shot--for rarely indeed does a deer fall
dead in his tracks even when shot through the heart--rose from his crouching position and commenced
to reload his rifle. With great care he poured the powder into the palm of his hand, measuring
the quantity with his eye--for it was an evidence of a hunter's skill to be able to get the
proper quantity for the ball. Then he put the charge into the barrel. Placing a little greased
linsey rag, about half an inch square, over the muzzle, he laid a small lead bullet on it,
and with the ramrod began to push the ball into the barrel.

A slight rustle behind him, which sounded to him like the gliding of a rattlesnake over the
leaves, caused him to start and turn round. But he was too late. A crushing blow on the head
from a club in the hand of a brawny Indian laid him senseless on the ground.

When Isaac regained his senses he felt a throbbing pain in his head, and then he opened his
eyes he was so dizzy that he was unable to discern objects clearly. After a few moments his
sight returned. When he had struggled to a sitting posture he discovered that his hands were
bound with buckskin thongs. By his side he saw two long poles of basswood, with some strips
of green bark and pieces of grapevine laced across and tied fast to the poles. Evidently this
had served as a litter on which he had been carried. From his wet clothes and the position
of the sun, now low in the west, he concluded he had been brought across the river and was
now miles from the fort. In front of him he saw three Indians sitting before a fire. One of
them was cutting thin slices from a haunch of deer meat, another was drinking from a gourd,
and the third was roasting a piece of venison which he held on a sharpened stick. Isaac knew
at once the Indians were Wyandots, and he saw they were in full war paint. They were not young
braves, but middle aged warriors. One of them Isaac recognized as Crow, a chief of one of the
Wyandot tribes, and a warrior renowned for his daring and for his ability to make his way in
a straight line through the wilderness. Crow was a short, heavy Indian and his frame denoted
great strength. He had a broad forehead, high cheek bones, prominent nose and his face would
have been handsome and intelligent but for the scar which ran across his cheek, giving him
a sinister look.

"Hugh!" said Crow, as he looked up and saw Isaac staring at him. The other Indians immediately
gave vent to a like exclamation.

"Crow, you caught me again," said Isaac, in the Wyandot tongue, which he spoke fluently.

"The white chief is sure of eye and swift of foot, but he cannot escape the Huron. Crow has
been five times on his trail since the moon was bright. The white chief's eyes were shut and
his ears were deaf," answered the Indian loftily.

"How long have you been near the fort?"

"Two moons have the warriors of Myeerah hunted the pale face."

"Have you any more Indians with you?"

The chief nodded and said a party of nine Wyandots had been in the vicinity of Wheeling for
a month. He named some of the warriors.

Isaac was surprised to learn of the renowned chiefs who had been sent to recapture him. Not
to mention Crow, the Delaware chiefs Son-of-Wingenund and Wapatomeka were among the most cunning
and sagacious Indians of the west. Isaac reflected that his year's absence from Myeerah had
not caused her to forget him.

Crow untied Isaac's hands and gave him water and venison. Then he picked up his rifle and with
a word to the Indians he stepped into the underbrush that skirted the little dale, and was
lost to view.

Isaac's head ached and throbbed so that after he had satisfied his thirst and hunger he was
glad to close his eyes and lean back against the tree. Engrossed in thoughts of the home he
might never see again, he had lain there an hour without moving, when he was aroused from his
meditations by low guttural exclamations from the Indians. Opening his eyes he saw Crow and
another Indian enter the glade, leading and half supporting a third savage.

They helped this Indian to the log, where he sat down slowly and wearily, holding one hand
over his breast. He was a magnificent specimen of Indian manhood, almost a giant in stature,
with broad shoulders in proportion to his height. His head-dress and the gold rings which encircled
his bare muscular arms indicated that he was a chief high in power. The seven eagle plumes
in his scalp-lock represented seven warriors that he had killed in battle. Little sticks of
wood plaited in his coal black hair and painted different colors showed to an Indian eye how
many times this chief had been wounded by bullet, knife, or tomahawk.

His face was calm. If he suffered he allowed no sign of it to escape him. He gazed thoughtfully
into the fire, slowly the while untying the belt which contained his knife and tomahawk. The
weapons were raised and held before him, one in each hand, and then waved on high. The action
was repeated three times. Then slowly and reluctantly the Indian lowered them as if he knew
their work on earth was done.

It was growing dark and the bright blaze from the camp fire lighted up the glade, thus enabling
Isaac to see the drooping figure on the log, and in the background Crow, holding a whispered
consultation with the other Indians. Isaac heard enough of the colloquy to guess the facts.
The chief had been desperately rounded; the palefaces were on their trail, and a march must
be commenced at once.

Isaac knew the wounded chief. He was the Delaware Son-of-Wingenund. He married a Wyandot squaw,
had spent much of his time in the Wyandot village and on warring expeditions which the two
friendly nations made on other tribes. Isaac had hunted with him, slept under the same blanket
with him, and had grown to like him.

As Isaac moved slightly in his position the chief saw him. He straightened up, threw back the
hunting shirt and pointed to a small hole in his broad breast. A slender stream of blood issued
from the wound and flowed down his chest.

"Wind-of-Death is a great white chief. His gun is always loaded," he said calmly, and a look
of pride gleamed across his dark face, as though he gloried in the wound made by such a warrior.

"Deathwind" was one of the many names given to Wetzel by the savages, and a thrill of hope
shot through Isaac's heart when he saw the Indians feared Wetzel was on their track. This hope
was short lived, however, for when he considered the probabilities of the thing he knew that
pursuit would only result in his death before the settlers could come up with the Indians,
and he concluded that Wetzel, familiar with every trick of the redmen, would be the first to
think of the hopelessness of rescuing him and so would not attempt it.

The four Indians now returned to the fire and stood beside the chief. It was evident to them
that his end was imminent. He sang in a low, not unmusical tone the death-chant of the Hurons.
His companions silently bowed their heads. When he had finished singing he slowly rose to his
great height, showing a commanding figure. Slowly his features lost their stern pride, his
face softened, and his dark eyes, gazing straight into the gloom of the forest, bespoke a superhuman
vision.

"Wingenund has been a great chief. He has crossed his last trail. The deeds of Wingenund will
be told in the wigwams of the Lenape," said the chief in a loud voice, and then sank back into
the arms of his comrades. They laid him gently down.

A convulsive shudder shook the stricken warrior's frame. Then, starting up he straightened
out his long arm and clutched wildly at the air with his sinewy fingers as if to grasp and
hold the life that was escaping him.

Isaac could see the fixed, sombre light in the eyes, and the pallor of death stealing over
the face of the chief. He turned his eyes away from the sad spectacle, and when he looked again
the majestic figure lay still.

The moon sailed out from behind a cloud and shed its mellow light down on the little glade.
It showed the four Indians digging a grave beneath the oak tree. No word was spoken. They worked
with their tomahawks on the soft duff and soon their task was completed. A bed of moss and
ferns lined the last resting place of the chief. His weapons were placed beside him, to go
with him to the Happy Hunting Ground, the eternal home of the redmen, where the redmen believe
the sun will always shine, and where they will be free from their cruel white foes.

When the grave had been filled and the log rolled on it the Indians stood by it a moment, each
speaking a few words in a low tone, while the night wind moaned the dead chief's requiem through
the tree tops.

Accustomed as Isaac was to the bloody conflicts common to the Indians, and to the tragedy that
surrounded the life of a borderman, the ghastly sight had unnerved him. The last glimpse of
that stern, dark face, of that powerful form, as the moon brightened up the spot in seeming
pity, he felt he could never forget. His thoughts were interrupted by the harsh voice of Crow
bidding him get up. He was told that the slightest inclination on his part to lag behind on
the march before them, or in any way to make their trail plainer, would be the signal for his
death. With that Crow cut the thongs which bound Isaac's legs and placing him between two of
the Indians, led the way into the forest.

Moving like spectres in the moonlight they marched on and on for hours. Crow was well named.
He led them up the stony ridges where their footsteps left no mark, and where even a dog could
not find their trail; down into the valleys and into the shallow streams where the running
water would soon wash away all trace of their tracks; then out on the open plain, where the
soft, springy grass retained little impress of their moccasins.

Single file they marched in the leader's tracks as he led them onward through the dark forests,
out under the shining moon, never slacking his rapid pace, ever in a straight line, and yet
avoiding the roughest going with that unerring instinct which was this Indian's gift. Toward
dawn the moon went down, leaving them in darkness, but this made no difference, for, guided
by the stars, Crow kept straight on his course. Not till break of day did he come to a halt.

Then, on the banks of a narrow stream, the Indians kindled a fire and broiled some of the venison.
Crow told Isaac he could rest, so he made haste to avail himself of the permission, and almost
instantly was wrapped in the deep slumber of exhaustion. Three of the Indians followed suit,
and Crow stood guard. Sleepless, tireless, he paced to and fro on the bank his keen eyes vigilant
for signs of pursuers.

The sun was high when the party resumed their flight toward the west. Crow plunged into the
brook and waded several miles before he took to the woods on the other shore. Isaac suffered
severely from the sharp and slippery stones, which in no wise bothered the Indians. His feet
were cut and bruised; still he struggled on without complaining. They rested part of the night,
and the next day the Indians, now deeming themselves practically safe from pursuit, did not
exercise unusual care to conceal their trail.

That evening about dusk they came to a rapidly flowing stream which ran northwest. Crow and
one of the other Indians parted the willows on the bank at this point and dragged forth a long
birch-bark canoe which they ran into the stream. Isaac recognized the spot. It was near the
head of Mad River, the river which ran through the Wyandot settlements.

Two of the Indians took the bow, the third Indian and Isaac sat in the middle, back to back,
and Crow knelt in the stern. Once launched on that wild ride Isaac forgot his uneasiness and
his bruises. The night was beautiful; he loved the water, and was not lacking in sentiment.
He gave himself up to the charm of the silver moonlight, of the changing scenery, and the musical
gurgle of the water. Had it not been for the cruel face of Crow, he could have imagined himself
on one of those enchanted canoes in fairyland, of which he had read when a boy. Ever varying
pictures presented themselves at the range, impelled by vigorous arms, flew over the shining
bosom of the stream. Here, in a sharp bend, was a narrow place where the trees on each bank
interlaced their branches and hid the moon, making a dark and dim retreat. Then came a short
series of ripples, with merry, bouncing waves and foamy currents; below lay a long, smooth
reach of water, deep and placid, mirroring the moon and the countless stars. Noiseless as a
shadow the canoe glided down this stretch, the paddle dipping regularly, flashing brightly,
and scattering diamond drops in the clear moonlight.

Another turn in the stream and a sound like the roar of an approaching storm as it is borne
on a rising wind, broke the silence. It was the roar of rapids or falls. The stream narrowed;
the water ran swifter; rocky ledges rose on both sides, gradually getting higher and higher.
Crow rose to his feet and looked ahead. Then he dropped to his knees and turned the head of
the canoe into the middle of the stream. The roar became deafening. Looking forward Isaac saw
that they were entering a dark gorge. In another moment the canoe pitched over a fall and shot
between two high, rocky bluffs. These walls ran up almost perpendicularly two hundred feet;
the space between was scarcely twenty feet wide, and the water fairly screamed as it rushed
madly through its narrow passage. In the center it was like a glancing sheet of glass, weird
and dark, and was bordered on the sides by white, seething foam-capped waves which tore and
dashed and leaped at their stony confines.

Though the danger was great, though Death lurked in those jagged stones and in those black
waits Isaac felt no fear, he knew the strength of that arm, now rigid and again moving with
lightning swiftness; he knew the power of the eye which guided them.

Once more out under the starry sky; rifts, shallows, narrows, and lake-like basins were passed
swiftly. At length as the sky was becoming gray in the east, they passed into the shadow of
what was called the Standing Stone. This was a peculiarly shaped stone-faced bluff, standing
high over the river, and taking its name from Tarhe, or Standing Stone, chief of all the Hurons.

At the first sight of that well known landmark, which stood by the Wyandot village, there mingled
with Isaac's despondency and resentment some other feeling that was akin to pleasure; with
a quickening of the pulse came a confusion of expectancy and bitter memories as he thought
of the dark eyed maiden from whom he had fled a year ago.

"Co-wee-Co-woe," called out one of the Indians in the bow of the canoe. The signal was heard,
for immediately an answering shout came from the shore.

When a few moments later the canoe grated softly on a pebbly beach. Isaac saw, indistinctly
in the morning mist, the faint outlines of tepees and wigwams, and he knew he was once more
in the encampment of the Wyandots.

        * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

Late in the afternoon of that day Isaac was awakened from his heavy slumber and told that the
chief had summoned him. He got up from the buffalo robes upon which he had flung himself that
morning, stretched his aching limbs, and walked to the door of the lodge.

The view before him was so familiar that it seemed as if he had suddenly come home after being
absent a long time. The last rays of the setting sun shone ruddy and bright over the top of
the Standing Stone; they touched the scores of lodges and wigwams which dotted the little valley;
they crimsoned the swift, narrow river, rushing noisily over its rocky bed. The banks of the
stream were lined with rows of canoes; here and there a bridge made of a single tree spanned
the stream. From the camp fires long, thin columns of blue smoke curled lazily upward; giant
maple trees, in them garb of purple and gold, rose high above the wigwams, adding a further
beauty to this peaceful scene.

As Isaac was led down a lane between two long lines of tepees the watching Indians did not
make the demonstration that usually marked the capture of a paleface. Some of the old squaws
looked up from their work round the campfires and steaming kettles and grinned as the prisoner
passed. The braves who were sitting upon their blankets and smoking their long pipes, or lounging
before the warm blazes maintained a stolid indifference; the dusky maidens smiled shyly, and
the little Indian boys, with whom Isaac had always been a great favorite, manifested their
joy by yelling and running after him. One youngster grasped Isaac round the leg and held on
until he was pulled away.

In the center of the village were several lodges connected with one another and larger and
more imposing than the surrounding tepees. These were the wigwams of the chief, and thither
Isaac was conducted. The guards led him to a large and circular apartment and left him there
alone. This room was the council-room. It contained nothing but a low seat and a knotted war-club.

Isaac heard the rattle of beads and bear claws, and as he turned a tall and majestic Indian
entered the room. It was Tarhe, the chief of all the Wyandots. Though Tarhe was over seventy,
he walked erect; his calm face, dark as a bronze mask, showed no trace of his advanced age. First and only time I've seen.

"For good and for a finishing touch to the way that I bring and I'm tired: I think if we encourage you
and give me the gift of your company in this house, the cry of the earth, I would be more bearable.
There is nothing more to do tempt among these solitary crags, you who are seasoned the buttocks
and gifts of the court, but to everything men do when they insist on it, without also relevant
here is its sun, and although it is true that it takes a little in the morning in transposing
the peaks that surround the place, and lights up once warms and gladdens the soul like the
sun more friendly of any party. In addition, your exile could not last long for reasons that
I know, and last settlement, to leave it in could not resist as he
was finishing the story for you.

'Item more: I have certain plans in the Magin, they give me much to do. What man walks free
them for me? I have no heirs and no longer have at home something to throw losing my own membership,
something that will go God knows where, if my last and rearward no
mole at sight with a being that makes me a little tingling in interlinings
of the heart.

"Of course, I do not try to turn on your lust with these hints.

A large part go! But all is well and have stipulated this in hours that have begun run to me.

"Well,
man, come on come over here, and if you can not do it for fun, do
it for charity of God.

"

Least the 'slump' and its consequences, all that my uncle told me this letter to me I was well
known, and knew also, what is easily deduced from its earlier low correspondence with us and how little
I had told my father, who was his brother Celso a folksy man of few lyrics and excellent heart,
acute and somewhat cunning Magin, as a good mountaineer, and more careful cultivation and prosperity
of their land and livestock, which the promotion of their affection for the family she had
left; sloppiness that sometimes played in an indifference seemed bordering the absolute oblivion.
Unless I knew my uncle in his native land and of our solar house, not so much because of my
lack of curiosity about such matters as by the work of one of the most salient weakness of my
father. He further called attention surnames personal conditions of "our", and thus to ask for
life and times of any of them, rather than straight answer to the question, perched at the
top of the family tree, and crawled from branch to branch to down, not stop to give the least,
with the leg of the Cid, if it is satisfied with that. Their parents could only take in clean,
at different times asked news on them, which had been the junction of the house "only" of the Ruiz
de Bejos of Tablanca, with those of Gómez de Pomar, the most illustrious of the promise. Few
flow, yes, by mainly the latter, that is, by my paternal grandmother, who only brought into
the marriage a few necklaces and earrings of coral, two silver reliquaries a splinter of the
True Cross, and a bone of St. Felicitas, respectively, three sets of linen, linen tablecloths
home two, a gold chain from Cordoba, the prom dress with his marriage, and another half for
everyday use. On my grandfather was a thing very different. Our house Tablanca exercised throughout
the valley, by virtue of their status amen of noble charity, certain undeniable and patriarchal
dominion, and was forced whereabouts of all the notable people who passed by, even bishops. Just
as remember my father had stayed two in it: the de Santander and Leon. For these and other necessities
like chests and cabinets were in good supply of linens and table linens higher abundant solid
silver table and up to two damask bedspreads and a crucifix ivory and ebony. Nothing was there
that must not be missing from the house of a family like ours. But its situation, its form,
its extent, its comforts, or short, at most, which was great, with sunny, coat of arms and
ancillary. Ground it was located and its outskirts, the conditions and appearance of landscape,
climate, of its resources for life more than animal, the customs of its inhabitants, was idle inquire
anything by reports that good sir, that be so paid out of race and put on the horns of the moon
the arms of his house and the land they had born only once and very quickly returned to it
after having left it, though rule of necessity, as a boy yet. Went back to the top of all that
had heard and read about this empingorotada region of the Cantabrian Mountains, and was to
see how they are there, primarily with the Celts, our putative progenitors, and took down then
from there to become embroiled hand in hand and as one fan and regular fair price and current
family issues, with those tribes untamed, with that fierce Spaniard passed the Alps with Hannibal
against Rome fought and defeated Scipio in Ticino. After talking Augustus and his legions who
have come to Cantabria expressly to subject the Roman yoke; that that was our thrust, that
"our" value and that "our" attachment to independence, that Caesar had six years to succeed in
an endeavor that had seemed to work a few days of the horrors of this barbarous war between inaccessible
crags and deep and dark ravines where the water roared inks in the blood of "our" and hardened
legionnaires. No missing as of mothers during the war killed their little ones to not see them
slaves to foreign winners, nor the death of so many cross martyrs singing hymns of freedom from
curses to the conqueror, and with all this, a number of details about the type and the mores of
his heroes, details that I had wanted on the land they inhabit, as it was in my days. Far from
it, leaving only Cantabrians to mix his successors in the epic of Covadonga or the trouble of "Bands"
of Castile, and you put here with dithyrambs their illustrious "ancestors", ran with them the
five parts of the world to not know where he was, nor I either. Because on these matters my
father was a generous scholarship, but somewhat suspicious, work a greed that came with the truth
as with the fantastic, by clinging tenaciously, but purely platonic, things of earth.

In this way I knew it, upon receiving the letter from my uncle, little more is known, by guesswork
or by comparison, other fellows who have been "passing" and very quickly.

Meanwhile I had already served thirty-two years for six who was a doctor in both rights, albeit
unknowingly, by disuse of them, what they were for those things more
than seven that field for my respect, and gave me the high life with
the flow that I inherited from my father.

Because my mother did not inherit a penny. Granada was a very pretty daughter of a judge Hearing
of that land. He met my father walked over there a while, busy mining
business, and married her in the overnight.

The judge was a widower and poor, and died two years after the wedding of his daughter.

I owe to God, among other grants, the temperament of a uniquely balanced moods, which allowed
me to go through the most dangerous hardships of life, while including the lower strip of skin. Very
few things have touched my soul, and I seldom I have a passion for the best of them. This has
been my greatest fortune in the midst of freedom and abundance in which I lived, being pampered
and spoiled child, while I was' son of the family " rich and detached
from all constraints when it has no father and mother and declared
myself "boy open house.

" Under these conditions and a passionate temperament, God knows what had been of me and my
money. Still, not increase the legacy of my father, and even drop him a good chop, because not
all the time ran the same for the vile farthing; and I, though without losing sight of how useful
it is this ingredient to live at home with the men, there was born to a slave to him and had
entrenched interests that were not cheap. I liked traveling, and traveled extensively in and outside
Spain, I liked the so-called "big world" or 'high society', and frequented its halls, theaters,
field trips and even fashionable resorts, and sports, I like the Fine Arts, although considered
mainly as a luxury item, and buy paintings and sculptures in the exhibition; I liked certain
men of politics and literature, not by politicians or by literati precisely, but the resonance
of their names and the attractiveness of their conversations and frequented his treatment and
accompanied him in his circle and their feasts and gatherings in and revelry ... I even liked the
bullfighters at a distance, and distance grew the friendship of some of them.

All this, and as much more than it follows the law enforced at the end of the day was wear
expensive and produce deep, if not hide, at least moral sensitivity, even though it is a boy
like me, who aspired to be no box set of the first term, or half-inch lift on the common size of
the mass of spectators, and this, not virtue, but by the exigencies of my temperament.

It is very noteworthy that in the hobby more pronounced of all mine, the travel, seduced me much artifice
of men that the work of Nature.

As good Madrid, loved to Madrid over all earthly things, and after Madrid, similar to Spain and
abroad, the largest and liveliest capitals of the civilized world. What remained among those,
I did not care, and passed on it, to go wherever he went, as insensitive projectile that has given
whereabouts from their point of origin. Son and resident of land plain, mountains and sky saddened
me fuzzy fearfulness me.

Once one had been in the mountain capital, masking a desire to tread "the land of my ancestors" my
father would say, the temptation to spend the summer at the port began to be "elegant." Rail crossing
near the Cantabrian Mountains above the sources of the Ebro, recalled that "there" did not
know whether the right or left, had to walk my ancestral home, in a withdrawal of those mountains
mists and tight hooded black oak. And then had more resonance in my heart this much-vaunted "cry blood."
Days later, and from one of the heights overlooking the city, Santander, practical So I named, pointing
with his finger, every peak and every mountain of the great mountain range that begins at
the East Cape and Galizano Quintres (the tail of the huge reptile), and ends at West poking through
the clouds the Picos de Europa (his head).

Then, by drawing in the air with the same finger during each river of her birth in and the bottom of
his black cliffs tumble, arrived addressed to the West, and marking three stripes almost vertical,
I named the Sakha, the Nansa and Deva, and there I stopped him with thought, telling me himself,
"Along with one of the three rivers (I think the Nansa) plus above or below, must walk the site
of my elders. "And this just fell for the second time, "the cry of blood" who had in his veins. As
decoration, that I fell in love string of jagged mountains from east to west on the south
serve as grandiose setting the wonderful bay, but as habitable land!

...

Such were, peak, peak less, my personal background when I got the letter in which Celso my uncle
called me to his side, indefinitely, from the depths and Mountaineer in the Cantabrian region,
and yet, no embassy gave me unpleasant impression as might be assumed to take exactly what was said
about my way of being and feeling.

Apart from what interested me the physical and moral of my uncle,
I was not so in love My way of life, scares me the risks of radical
upheaval for some time.

Without feeling "tired" of living as he lived, because there was no drop at ride so calm and
relatively orderly as he had used me to get where he come by so many dangerous roads, began to
notice at the time certain languor spirit, inappetence certain moral certainly were not at
odds with a break homes, and much less an exchange of views and "food".

On this side, the letter My uncle could not be more timely than it was in my hands. The serious,
unexpected terrible thing for me was on the other hand, the quality of what I called it. Resolved
to change their lives for some time, God knows what paths I had taken, but certainly to me that
never would have chosen that my uncle wanted and I intended. Get there to make a visit, stop
by long, even to know view the site of my grandparents, thank goodness, but to settle it;
make the lives of the beasts among crags and brambles; acclimated she suddenly ran into the
station (rather than mid autumn), the threshold of winter Why should he see Tablanca! Water newcomer
I-Hi Paris and halfway around the world "Distinguished", with suitcases packed with 'new', both
in carrying clothes; reinstated in my "comfortable" single house ... Come on, was the height
of the impossible dream even trocar in all that and so suddenly I was offered from Tablanca.

But I could not tell my uncle these things that would hurt a lot in the situation of mind in
which he found himself, he entertained his urgent request dispatching evasive polite, claiming that
he had business, and targeting "see" without the slightest intention of comply.

Ente Thus, the vision, my way, Tablanca's house, with its mountains and wild animals and their people
and their wintry desolation, not a moment away from my eyes, because the pleadings my uncle,
more alive, came to touch me deep inside, and what might happen,
felt the need to put the case in question, which is as good as the
rules experience, as you start to compromise.

The truth is that one day, I received the second to last letter from my uncle, I very comovió
deeply, say in the matter of looking within myself why I be so insensitive
to agreed charms of nature.

Are you missing that string in my body had either not had put in hand to vibrate? For there
to find out, because it began to mortify the fear of not having it. Additionally, or is one man,
or it is not, or has or does not have guts humanity, guts to go where you go and do what others
do, or serves or served for something more useful and more juice and enjoyment to tread rugs
salons, kidney fat a Jewish innkeepers, tailors and shoemakers in
fashion shows to attend, devouring distances crammed into cages rail
docks, and spending, in short, time and money on trifles in vain and
frivolous slut.

On track the discourse on this path, I feel a force of spirit, a virility unknown to me my
love soliviantóse own good healthy boy of soul and body, and taking advantage fever, fearing that if it
was temporary, it will take my ardor to disappear I wrote to my uncle saying "here I come" and
even by attaching the date of my departure from Madrid. Among I would therefore my travel arrangements,
and I answer he gave me the necessary instructions to get home from the last railroad station.

As
I walked busy making abundant supply of warm clothing, sturdy footwear, weapons offensive and defensive
Aimard books of Töpffer and few, including Chateaubriand, have pleasant things written about mountains,
forests and wild, as if projected a tour of the center of a remote
unexplored continent, I can not answer that Missed me fever.

Less secure it when I tried to "lift" my house. Seemed that this amounted to burn my ships,
or at least to me and had consented to by to be very long my stay among the bears of Cantabria, and
the fear of this risk I leaned to leave these things as they were on good friends in Madrid that
they would look for them. At any rate, nothing is easier than solving the contrary from there,
if you ask the circumstances.

Finally, fearing that this remnant of my weaknesses is I would still brewing other air cooler
and enervating, closed the doors of all reflection speech contrary to the agreement, and boasts
Alea est, I thought, like Caesar, resolved to pass all costs for my Rubicon.

II

And the company rushed on the agreed date, one day in late October, cold and misty in the heights
of the Roman "Juliobriga." In the classic villa immediate end of my journey first and only
possible by train, I stopped half an hour away: the purely essential members to stretch and comfort
the stomach, because there was no time to lose according to the opinion
of the footman who was waiting for me at that point from the previous
day with two nag land, and chaparretes espelurciados, one to drive
me and one for bear my luggage.

Launched all well run and mid-morning, before the footman carrying
the spur the horse that was barely visible beneath the heap of my
bags and wrappers, without leaving the center of the town by a bridge
crossed the Ebro old newborn and rather short stretch down there and
after a short lie down, it was on that side as suburban population
we left back, Vimon free field, if free can which is encircled called
barriers.

From the summits of the highest fell off wisps of fog that enveloped
them, and mimicked left to dry wet fleeces in tips of the rocks and
the thickness of those secular and almost inaccessible trees, with
the mountain air blowing constantly, and so fresh, that forced me
to lift up the ears, the neck of my new raincoat.

Continuing our journey faced west, we had continually to the left, water above the river, with its fresh,
green and pompous bank vaults and canopies willow, alder and blackberry, and topábamos from
time to time with a small town, although not very happy color, spice up the monotony of the landscape.

At
the edge of the last of this series of them in the center of a small amphitheater of bare
hills in their tops, were reborbollando the copious springs emerge
from famous river, after briefly haven to orientate in the field and
gain breaths from the slopes of their own crib, escapes from there,
running around, hiding from light whenever possible, as everyone who
does evil to leave soon for his native land, bring the benefits of
their waters to foreign fields and unknown people, and pay to inattentive
during his tribute to all his wealth to whom you should not be in
a good law.

Y to faith, or my eyes deceived me much, or would work very easy and cheap to tackle the runaway
a short distance from their sources, and as punishment for his disloyalty, cast him down headlong
downhill without giving rest to give point, macerated and in foams, the wrath of its owner
and natural lord, the broad and fiery Bay of Biscay.

I should spend too much time meditating on these and other childish things, and taste the memories
awoke in me the contemplation of those crystal clear waters that have so as do history and
the imagination of poets, because the footman, saving all the usual compliments on his rude
courtesy, I noted the desirability of us to continue walk.

- Da Grim - obeying said - think of the behavior of this renegade mountain.

I had to decipher the metaphor for the footman to understand me what I wanted to say; and as
I had understood, he replied:

- Déjeli, déjeli to go in grace and, earlier, before jaz Aonda needed more than here. Pa meter
Malis buya and cause maybe, people have many Rius as estimated by the band here.

Explicóse turn the footman for me to understand, and I became convinced, with examples I became
overwhelmed mountain rivers perhaps without why or wherefore, sweeping houses bridges and mills
in the highest, and eating in the valleys the land should be watering, that may well be meritorious
what had seemed in the Ebro unpardonable.

Certainly not bad, nor explained his side have kept my harsh interesting interlocutor, in whom
only I had noticed before.

It was a fine fellow burly, broad and somewhat square shoulders, and wore blue pants with
black back half, subject to the waist by a girdle purple, and the low neck shirt, a "lastic"
or red flannel jacket. Wore comprised of three anchors on brown cloth slippers, and below the warped
with fungus that covered the swollen head, long locks of hair falling and entrerrubio rough,
almost sanota color and pleasant face, whose only fault was the most
prominent lower jaw the other, as our princes of the house of Austria.

He carried in his right hand paint stick, and under the left arm,
a blue umbrella, big and patches.

Tell me as extremely terse news of my uncle.

- How is your health? - Had asked me as I stood before and my orders.
 When they met in the center the braves bent forward and whispered
a word to the maidens. At a certain point in the song, which was indicated by a louder note,
the maidens would change their positions, and this was continued until every brave had whispered
to every maiden, when the dance ended.

Isaac took part in all these pleasures; he entered into every phase of the Indian's life; he
hunted, worked, played, danced, and sang with faithfulness. But when the long, dreary winter
days came with their ice-laden breezes, enforcing idleness on the Indians, he became restless.
Sometimes for days he would be morose and gloomy, keeping beside his own tent and not mingling
with the Indians. At such times Myeerah did not question him.

Even in his happier hours his diversions were not many. He never tired of watching and studying
the Indian children. When he had an opportunity without being observed, which was seldom, he
amused himself with the papooses. The Indian baby was strapped to a flat piece of wood and
covered with a broad flap of buckskin. The squaws hung these primitive baby carriages up on
the pole of a tepee, on a branch of a tree, or threw them round anywhere. Isaac never heard
a papoose cry. He often pulled down the flap of buckskin and looked at the solemn little fellow,
who would stare up at him with big, wondering eyes.

Isaac's most intimate friend was a six-year-old Indian boy, whom he called Captain Jack. He
was the son of Thundercloud, the war-chief of the Hurons. Jack made a brave picture in his
buckskin hunting suit and his war bonnet. Already he could stick tenaciously on the back of
a racing mustang and with his little bow he could place arrow after arrow in the center of
the target. Knowing Captain Jack would some day be a mighty chief, Isaac taught him to speak
English. He endeavored to make Jack love him, so that when the lad should grow to be a man
he would remember his white brother and show mercy to the prisoners who fell into his power.

Another of Isaac's favorites was a half-breed Ottawa Indian, a distant relative of Tarhe's.
This Indian was very old; no one knew how old; his face was seamed and scarred and wrinkled.
Bent and shrunken was his form. He slept most of the time, but at long intervals he would brighten
up and tell of his prowess when a warrior.

One of his favorite stories was of the part he had taken in the events of that fatal and memorable
July 2, 1755, when Gen. Braddock and his English army were massacred by the French and Indians
near Fort Duquesne.

The old chief told how Beaujeu with his Frenchmen and his five hundred Indians ambushed Braddock's
army, surrounded the soldiers, fired from the ravines, the trees, the long grass, poured a
pitiless hail of bullets on the bewildered British soldiers, who, unaccustomed to this deadly
and unseen foe, huddled under the trees like herds of frightened sheep, and were shot down
with hardly an effort to defend themselves.

The old chief related that fifteen years after that battle he went to the Kanawha settlement
to see the Big Chief, Gen. George Washington, who was travelling on the Kanawha. He told Gen.
Washington how he had fought in the battle of Braddock's Fields; how he had shot and killed
Gen. Braddock; how he had fired repeatedly at Washington, and had killed two horses under him,
and how at last he came to the conclusion that Washington was protected by the Great Spirit
who destined him for a great future.

      * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

Myeerah was the Indian name for a rare and beautiful bird--the white crane--commonly called
by the Indians, Walk-in-the-Water. It had been the name of Tarhe's mother and grandmother.
The present Myeerah was the daughter of a French woman, who had been taken captive at a very
early age, adopted into the Huron tribe, and married to Tarhe. The only child of this union
was Myeerah. She grew to be beautiful woman and was known in Detroit and the Canadian forts
as Tarhe's white daughter. The old chief often visited the towns along the lake shore, and
so proud was he of Myeerah that he always had her accompany him. White men travelled far to
look at the Indian beauty. Many French soldiers wooed her in vain. Once, while Tarhe was in
Detroit, a noted French family tried in every way to get possession of Myeerah.

The head of this family believed he saw in Myeerah the child of his long lost daughter. Tarhe
hurried away from the city and never returned to the white settlement.

Myeerah was only five years old at the time of the capture of the Zane brothers and it was
at this early age that she formed the attachment for Isaac Zane which clung to her all her
life. She was seven when the men came from Detroit to ransom the brothers, and she showed such
grief when she learned that Isaac was to be returned to his people that Tarhe refused to accept
any ransom for Isaac. As Myeerah grew older her childish fancy for the white boy deepened into
an intense love.

But while this love tendered her inexorable to Isaac on the question of giving him his freedom,
it undoubtedly saved his life as well as the lives of other white prisoners, on more than one
occasion.

To the white captives who fell into the hands of the Hurons, she was kind and merciful; many
of the wounded she had tended with her own hands, and many poor wretches she had saved from
the gauntlet and the stake. When her efforts to persuade her father to save any one were unavailing
she would retire in sorrow to her lodge and remain there.

Her infatuation for the White Eagle, the Huron name for Isaac, was an old story; it was known
to all the tribes and had long ceased to be questioned. At first some of the Delawares and
the Shawnee braves, who had failed to win Myeerah's love, had openly scorned her for her love
for the pale face. The Wyandot warriors to a man worshipped her; they would have marched straight
into the jaws of death at her command; they resented the insults which had been cast on their
princess, and they had wiped them out in blood: now none dared taunt her.

In the spring following Isaac's recapture a very serious accident befell him. He had become
expert in the Indian game of ball, which is a game resembling the Canadian lacrosse, and from
which, in fact, it had been adopted. Goals were placed at both ends of a level plain. Each
party of Indians chose a goal which they endeavored to defend and at the same time would try
to carry the ball over their opponent's line.

A well contested game of Indian ball presented a scene of wonderful effort and excitement.
Hundreds of strong and supple braves could be seen running over the plain, darting this way
and that, or struggling in a yelling, kicking, fighting mass, all in a mad scramble to get
the ball.

As Isaac had his share of the Zane swiftness of foot, at times his really remarkable fleetness
enabled him to get control of the ball. In front of the band of yelling savages he would carry
it down the field, and evading the guards at the goal, would throw it between the posts. This
was a feat of which any brave could be proud.

During one of these games Red Fox, a Wyandot brave, who had long been hopelessly in love with
Myeerah, and who cordially hated Isaac, used this opportunity for revenge. Red Fox, who was
a swift runner, had vied with Isaac for the honors, but being defeated in the end, he had yielded
to his jealous frenzy and had struck Isaac a terrible blow on the head with his bat.

It happened to be a glancing blow or Isaac's life would have been ended then and there. As
it was he had a deep gash in his head. The Indians carried him to his lodge and the medicine
men of the tribe were summoned.

When Isaac recovered consciousness he asked for Myeerah and entreated her not to punish Red
Fox. He knew that such a course would only increase his difficulties, and, on the other hand,
if he saved the life of the Indian who had struck him in such a cowardly manner such an act
would appeal favorably to the Indians. His entreaties had no effect on Myeerah, who was furious,
and who said that if Red Fox, who had escaped, ever returned he would pay for his unprovoked
assault with his life, even if she had to kill him herself. Isaac knew that Myeerah would keep
her word. He dreaded every morning that the old squaw who prepared his meals would bring him
the news that his assailant had been slain. Red Fox was a popular brave, and there were many
Indians who believed the blow he had struck Isaac was not intentional. Isaac worried needlessly,
however, for Red Fox never came back, and nothing could be learned as to his whereabouts.

It was during his convalescence that Isaac learned really to love the Indian maiden. She showed
such distress in the first days after his injury, and such happiness when he was out of danger
and on the road to recovery that Isaac wondered at her. She attended him with anxious solicitude;
when she bathed and bandaged his wound her every touch was a tender caress; she sat by him
for hours; her low voice made soft melody as she sang the Huron love songs. The moments were
sweet to Isaac when in the gathering twilight she leaned her head on his shoulder while they
listened to the evening carol of the whip-poor-will. Days passed and at length Isaac was entirely
well. One day when the air was laden with the warm breath of summer Myeerah and Isaac walked
by the river.

"You are sad again," said Myeerah.

"I am homesick. I want to see my people. Myeerah, you have named me rightly. The Eagle can
never be happy unless he is free."

"The Eagle can be happy with his mate. And what life could be freer than a Huron's? I hope
always that you will grow content."

"It has been a long time now, Myeerah, since I have spoken with you of my freedom. Will you
ever free me? Or must I take again those awful chances of escape? I cannot always live here
in this way. Some day I shall be killed while trying to get away, and then, if you truly love
me, you will never forgive yourself."

"Does not Myeerah truly love you?" she asked, gazing straight into his eyes, her own misty and sad.

"I do not doubt that, but I think sometimes that it is not the right kind of love. It is too
savage. No man should be made a prisoner for no other reason than that he is loved by a woman.
I have tried to teach you many things; the language of my people, their ways and thoughts,
but I have failed to civilize you. I cannot make you understand that it is unwomanly--do not
turn away. I am not indifferent. I have learned to care for you. Your beauty and tenderness
have made anything else impossible."

"Myeerah is proud of her beauty, if it pleases the Eagle. Her beauty and her love are his.
Yet the Eagle's words make Myeerah sad. She cannot tell what she feels. The pale face's words
flow swiftly and smoothly like rippling waters, but Myeerah's heart is full and her lips are dumb."

Myeerah and Isaac stopped under a spreading elm tree the branches of which drooped over and
shaded the river. The action of the high water had worn away the earth round the roots of the
old elm, leaving them bare and dry when the stream was low. As though Nature had been jealous
in the interest of lovers, she had twisted and curled the roots into a curiously shaped bench
just above the water, which was secluded enough to escape all eyes except those of the beaver
and the muskrat. The bank above was carpeted with fresh, dewy grass; blue bells and violets
hid modestly under their dark green leaves; delicate ferns, like wonderful fairy lace, lifted
their dainty heads to sway in the summer breeze. In this quiet nook the lovers passed many hours.

"Then, if my White Chief has learned to care for me, he must not try to escape," whispered
Myeerah, tenderly, as she crept into Isaac's arms and laid her head on his breast. "I love
you. I love you. What will become of Myeerah if you leave her? Could she ever be happy? Could
she ever forget? No, no, I will keep my captive."

"I cannot persuade you to let me go?"

"If I free you I will come and lie here," cried Myeerah, pointing to the dark pool.

"Then come with me to my home and live there."

"Go with you to the village of the pale faces, where Myeerah would be scorned, pointed at as
your captors laughed at and pitied? No! No!"

"But you would not be," said Isaac, eagerly. "You would be my wife. My sister and people will
love you. Come, Myeerah save me from this bondage; come home with me and I will make you happy."

"It can never be," she said, sadly, after a long pause. "How would we ever reach the fort by
the big river? Tarhe loves his daughter and will not give her up. If we tried to get away the
braves would overtake us and then even Myeerah could not save your life. You would be killed.
I dare not try. No, no, Myeerah loves too well for that."

"You might make the attempt," said Isaac, turning away in bitter disappointment. "If you loved
me you could not see me suffer."

"Never say that again," cried Myeerah, pain and scorn in her dark eyes. "Can an Indian Princess
who has the blood of great chiefs in her veins prove her love in any way that she has not?
Some day you will know that you wrong me. I am Tarhe's daughter. A Huron does not lie."

They slowly wended their way back to the camp, both miserable at heart; Isaac longing to see
his home and friends, and yet with tenderness in his heart for the Indian maiden who would
not free him; Myeerah with pity and love for him and a fear that her long cherished dream could
never be realized.

One dark, stormy night, when the rain beat down in torrents and the swollen river raged almost
to its banks, Isaac slipped out of his lodge unobserved and under cover of the pitchy darkness
he got safely between the lines of tepees to the river. He had just the opportunity for which
he had been praying. He plunged into the water and floating down with the swift current he
soon got out of sight of the flickering camp fires. Half a mile below he left the water and
ran along the bank until he came to a large tree, a landmark he remembered, when he turned
abruptly to the east and struck out through the dense woods. He travelled due east all that
night and the next day without resting, and with nothing to eat except a small piece of jerked
buffalo meat which he had taken the precaution to hide in his hunting shirt. He rested part
of the second night and next morning pushed on toward the east. He had expected to reach the
Ohio that day, but he did not and he noticed that the ground seemed to be gradually rising.
He did not come across any swampy lands or saw grass or vegetation characteristic of the lowlands.
He stopped and tried to get his bearings. The country was unknown to him, but he believed he
knew the general lay of the ridges and the water-courses.

The fourth day found Isaac hopelessly lost in the woods. He was famished, having eaten but
a few herbs and berries in the last two days; his buckskin garments were torn in tatters; his
moccasins were worn out and his feet lacerated by the sharp thorns.

Darkness was fast approaching when he first realized that he was lost. He waited hopefully
for the appearance of the north star--that most faithful of hunter's guides--but the sky clouded
over and no stars appeared. Tired out and hopeless he dragged his weary body into a dense laurel
thicket end lay down to wait for dawn. The dismal hoot of an owl nearby, the stealthy steps
of some soft-footed animal prowling round the thicket, and the mournful sough of the wind in
the treetops kept him awake for hours, but at last he fell asleep.

CHAPTER VII.

The chilling rains of November and December's flurry of snow had passed and mid-winter with
its icy blasts had set in. The Black Forest had changed autumn's gay crimson and yellow to
the somber hue of winter and now looked indescribably dreary. An ice gorge had formed in the
bend of the river at the head of the island and from bank to bank logs, driftwood, broken ice
and giant floes were packed and jammed so tightly as to resist the action of the mighty current.
This natural bridge would remain solid until spring had loosened the frozen grip of old winter.
The hills surrounding Fort Henry were white with snow. The huge drifts were on a level with
Col. Zane's fence and in some places the top rail had disappeared. The pine trees in the yard
were weighted down and drooped helplessly with their white burden.

On this frosty January morning the only signs of life round the settlement were a man and a
dog walking up Wheeling hill. The man carried a rifle, an axe, and several steel traps. His
snow-shoes sank into the drifts as he labored up the steep hill. All at once he stopped. The
big black dog had put his nose high in the air and had sniffed at the cold wind.

"Well, Tige, old fellow, what is it?" said Jonathan Zane, for this was he.

The dog answered with a low whine. Jonathan looked up and down the creek valley and along the
hillside, but he saw no living thing. Snow, snow everywhere, its white monotony relieved here
and there by a black tree trunk. Tige sniffed again and then growled. Turning his ear to the
breeze Jonathan heard faint yelps from far over the hilltop. He dropped his axe and the traps
and ran the remaining short distance up the hill. When he reached the summit the clear baying
of hunting wolves was borne to his ears.

The hill sloped gradually on the other side, ending in a white, unbroken plain which extended
to the edge of the laurel thicket a quarter of a mile distant. Jonathan could not see the wolves,
but he heard distinctly their peculiar, broken howls. They were in pursuit of something, whether
quadruped or man he could not decide. Another moment and he was no longer in doubt, for a deer
dashed out of the thicket. Jonathan saw that it was a buck and that he was well nigh exhausted;
his head swung low from side to side; he sank slowly to his knees, and showed every indication
of distress.

The next instant the baying of the wolves, which had ceased for a moment, sounded close at
hand. The buck staggered to his feet; he turned this way and that. When he saw the man and
the dog he started toward them without a moment's hesitation.

At a warning word from Jonathan the dog sank on the snow. Jonathan stepped behind a tree, which,
however, was not large enough to screen his body. He thought the buck would pass close by him
and he determined to shoot at the most favorable moment.

The buck, however, showed no intention of passing by; in his abject terror he saw in the man
and the dog foes less terrible than those which were yelping on his trail. He came on in a
lame uneven trot, making straight for the tree. When he reached the tree he crouched, or rather
fell, on the ground within a yard of Jonathan and his dog. He quivered and twitched; his nostrils
flared; at every pant drops of blood flecked the snow; his great dark eyes had a strained and
awful look, almost human in its agony.

Another yelp from the thicket and Jonathan looked up in time to see five timber wolves, gaunt,
hungry looking beasts, burst from the bushes. With their noses close to the snow they followed
the trail. When they came to the spot where the deer had fallen a chorus of angry, thirsty
howls filled the air.

"Well, if this doesn't beat me! I thought I knew a little about deer," said Jonathan. "Tige,
we will save this buck from those gray devils if it costs a leg. Steady now, old fellow, wait."

When the wolves were within fifty yards of the tree and coming swiftly Jonathan threw his rifle
forward and yelled with all the power of his strong lungs:

"Hi! Hi! Hi! Take 'em, Tige!"

In trying to stop quickly on the slippery snowcrust the wolves fell all over themselves. One
dropped dead and another fell wounded at the report of Jonathan's rifle. The others turned
tail and loped swiftly off into the thicket. Tige made short work of the wounded one.

"Old White Tail, if you were the last buck in the valley, I would not harm you," said Jonathan,
looking at the panting deer. "You need have no farther fear of that pack of cowards."

So saying Jonathan called to Tige and wended his way down the hill toward the settlement.

An hour afterward he was sitting in Col. Zane's comfortable cabin, where all was warmth and
cheerfulness. Blazing hickory logs roared and crackled in the stone fireplace.

"Hello, Jack, where did you come from?" said Col. Zane, who had just come in. "Haven't seen
you since we were snowed up. Come over to see about the horses? If I were you I would not undertake
that trip to Fort Pitt until the weather breaks. You could go in the sled, of course, but if
you care anything for my advice you will stay home. This weather will hold on for some time.
Let Lord Dunmore wait."

"I guess we are in for some stiff weather."

"Haven't a doubt of it. I told Bessie last fall we might expect a hard winter. Everything indicated
it. Look at the thick corn-husks. The hulls of the nuts from the shell-bark here in the yard
were larger and tougher than I ever saw them. Last October Tige killed a raccoon that had the
wooliest kind of a fur. I could have given you a dozen signs of a hard winter. We shall still
have a month or six weeks of it. In a week will be ground-hog day and you had better wait and
decide after that."

"I tell you, Eb, I get tired chopping wood and hanging round the house."

"Aha! another moody spell," said Col. Zane, glancing kindly at his brother. "Jack, if you were
married you would outgrow those 'blue-devils.' I used to have them. It runs in the family to
be moody. I have known our father to take his gun and go into the woods and stay there until
he had fought out the spell. I have done that myself, but once I married Bessie I have had
no return of the old feeling. Get married, Jack, and then you will settle down and work. You
will not have time to roam around alone in the woods."

"I prefer the spells, as you call them, any day," answered Jonathan, with a short laugh. "A
man with my disposition has no right to get married. This weather is trying, for it keeps me
indoors. I cannot hunt because we do not need the meat. And even if I did want to hunt I should
not have to go out of sight of the fort. There were three deer in front of the barn this morning.
They were nearly starved. They ran off a little at sight of me, but in a few moments came back
for the hay I pitched out of the loft. This afternoon Tige and I saved a big buck from a pack
of wolves. The buck came right up to me. I could have touched him. This storm is sending the
deer down from the hills."

"You are right. It is too bad. Severe weather like this will kill more deer than an army could.
Have you been doing anything with your traps?"

"Yes, I have thirty traps out."

"If you are going, tell Sam to fetch down another load of fodder before he unhitches."

"Eb, I have no patience with your brothers," said Col. Zane's wife to him after he had closed
the door. "They are all alike; forever wanting to be on the go. If it isn't Indians it is something
else. The very idea of going up the river in this weather. If Jonathan doesn't care for himself
he should think of the horses."

"My dear, I was just as wild and discontented as Jack before I met you," remarked Col. Zane.
"You may not think so, but a home and pretty little woman will do wonders for any man. My brothers
have nothing to keep them steady."

"Perhaps. I do not believe that Jonathan ever will get married. Silas may; he certainly has
been keeping company long enough with Mary Bennet. You are the only Zane who has conquered
that adventurous spirit and the desire to be always roaming the woods in search of something
to kill. Your old boy, Noah, is growing up like all the Zanes. He fights with all the children
in the settlement. I cannot break him of it. He is not a bully, for I have never known him
to do anything mean or cruel. It is just sheer love of fighting."

"Ha! Ha! I fear you will not break him of that," answered Col. Zane. "It is a good joke to
say he gets it all from the Zanes. How about the McCollochs? What have you to say of your father
and the Major and John McColloch? They are not anything if not the fighting kind. It's the
best trait the youngster could have, out here on the border. He'll need it all. Don't worry
about him. Where is Betty?"

"I told her to take the children out for a sled ride. Betty needs exercise. She stays indoors
too much, and of late she looks pale."

"What! Betty not looking well! She was never ill in her life. I have noticed no change in her."

"No, I daresay you have not. You men can't see anything. But I can, and I tell you, Betty is
very different from the girl she used to be. Most of the time she sits and gazes out of her
window. She used to be so bright, and when she was not romping with the children she busied
herself with her needle. Yesterday as I entered her room she hurriedly picked up a book, and,
I think, intentionally hid her face behind it. I saw she had been crying."

"Come to think of it, I believe I have missed Betty," said Col. Zane, gravely. "She seems more
quiet. Is she unhappy? When did you first see this change?"

"I think it a little while after Mr. Clarke left here last fall."

"Clarke! What has he to do with Betty? What are you driving at?" exclaimed the Colonel, stopping
in front of his wife. His faced had paled slightly. "I had forgotten Clarke. Bess, you can't
mean--"

"Now, Eb, do not get that look on your face. You always frighten me," answered his wife, as
she quietly placed her hand on his arm. "I do not mean anything much, certainly nothing against
Mr. Clarke. He was a true gentleman. I really liked him."

"So did I," interrupted the Colonel.

"I believe Betty cared for Mr. Clarke. She was always different with him. He has gone away
and has forgotten her. That is strange to us, because we cannot imagine any one indifferent
to our beautiful Betty. Nevertheless, no matter how attractive a woman may be men sometimes
love and ride away. I hear the children coming now. Do not let Betty see that we have been
talking about her. She is as quick as a steel trap."

A peal of childish laughter came from without. The door opened and Betty ran in, followed by
the sturdy, rosy-checked youngsters. All three were white with snow.

"We have had great fun," said Betty. "We went over the bank once and tumbled off the sled into
the snow. Then we had a snow-balling contest, and the boys compelled me to strike my colors
and fly for the house."

Col. Zane looked closely at his sister. Her cheeks were flowing with health; her eyes were
sparkling with pleasure. Failing to observe any indication of the change in Betty which his
wife had spoken, he concluded that women were better qualified to judge their own sex than
were men. He had to confess to himself that the only change he could see in his sister was
that she grew prettier every day of her life.

"Oh, papa. I hit Sam right in the head with a big snow-ball, and I made Betty run into the
house, and I slid down to all by myself. Sam was afraid," said Noah to his father.

"Noah, if Sammy saw the danger in sliding down the hill he was braver than you. Now both of
you run to Annie and have these wet things taken off."

"I must go get on dry clothes myself," said Betty. "I am nearly frozen. It is growing colder.
I saw Jack come in. Is he going to Fort Pitt?"

"No. He has decided to wait until good weather. I met Mr. Miller over at the garrison this
afternoon and he wants you to go on the sled-ride to-night. There is to be a dance down at
Watkins' place. All the young people are going. It is a long ride, but I guess it will be perfectly
safe. Silas and Wetzel are going. Dress yourself warmly and go with them. You have never seen
old Grandma Watkins."

"I shall be pleased to go," said Betty.

Betty's room was very cozy, considering that it was in a pioneer's cabin. It had two windows,
the larger of which opened on the side toward the river. The walls had been smoothly plastered
and covered with white birch-bark. They were adorned with a few pictures and Indian ornaments.
A bright homespun carpet covered the floor. A small bookcase stood in the corner. The other
furniture consisted of two chairs, a small table, a bureau with a mirror, and a large wardrobe.
It was in this last that Betty kept the gowns which she had brought from Philadelphia, and
which were the wonder of all the girls in the village.

"I wonder why Eb looked so closely at me," mused Betty, as she slipped on her little moccasins.
"Usually he is not anxious to have me go so far from the fort; and now he seemed to think I
would enjoy this dance to-night. I wonder what Bessie has been telling him."

Betty threw some wood on the smouldering fire in the little stone grate and sat down to think.
Like every one who has a humiliating secret, Betty was eternally suspicious and feared the
very walls would guess it. Swift as light came the thought that her brother and his wife had
suspected her secret and had been talking about her, perhaps pitying her. With this thought
came the fear that if she had betrayed herself to the Colonel's wife she might have done so
to others. The consciousness that this might well be true and that even now the girls might
be talking and laughing at her caused her exceeding shame and bitterness.

Many weeks had passed since that last night that Betty and Alfred Clarke had been together.

In due time Col. Zane's men returned and Betty learned from Jonathan that Alfred had left them
at Ft. Pitt, saying he was going south to his old home. At first she had expected some word
from Alfred, a letter, or if not that, surely an apology for his conduct on that last evening
they had been together. But Jonathan brought her no word, and after hoping against hope and
wearing away the long days looking for a letter that never came, she ceased to hope and plunged
into despair.

The last few months had changed her life; changed it as only constant thinking, and suffering
that must be hidden from the world, can change the life of a young girl. She had been so intent
on her own thoughts, so deep in her dreams that she had taken no heed of other people. She
did not know that those who loved her were always thinking of her welfare and would naturally
see even a slight change in her. With a sudden shock of surprise and pain she realized that
to-day for the first time in a month she had played with the boys. Sammy had asked her why
she did not laugh any more. Now she understood the mad antics of Tige that morning; Madcap's
whinney of delight; the chattering of the squirrels, and Caesar's pranks in the snow. She had
neglected her pets. She had neglected her work, her friends, the boys' lessons; and her brother.
For what? What would her girl friends say? That she was pining for a lover who had forgotten
her. They would say that and it would be true. She did think of him constantly.

With bitter pain she recalled the first days of the acquaintance which now seemed so long past;
how much she had disliked Alfred; how angry she had been with him and how contemptuously she
had spurned his first proffer of friendship; how, little by little, her pride had been subdued;
then the struggle with her heart. And, at last, after he had gone, came the realization that
the moments spent with him had been the sweetest of her life. She thought of him as she used
to see him stand before her; so good to look at; so strong and masterful, and yet so gentle.

"Oh, I cannot bear it," whispered Betty with a half sob, giving up to a rush of tender feeling.
"I love him. I love him, and I cannot forget him. Oh, I am so ashamed."

Betty bowed her head on her knees. Her slight form quivered a while and then grew still. When
a half hour later she raised her head her face was pale and cold. It bore the look of a girl
who had suddenly become a woman; a woman who saw the battle of life before her and who was
ready to fight. Stern resolve gleamed from her flashing eyes; there was no faltering in those
set lips.

Betty was a Zane and the Zanes came of a fighting race. Their blood had ever been hot and passionate;
the blood of men quick to love and quick to hate. It had flowed in the veins of daring, reckless
men who had fought and died for their country; men who had won their sweethearts with the sword;
men who had had unconquerable spirits. It was this fighting instinct that now rose in Betty;
it gave her strength and pride to defend her secret; the resolve to fight against the longing
in her heart.

"I will forget him! I will tear him out of my heart!" she exclaimed passionately. "He never
deserved my love. He did not care. I was a little fool to let him amuse himself with me. He
went away and forgot. I hate him."

At length Betty subdued her excitement, and when she went down to supper a few minutes later
she tried to maintain a cheerful composure of manner and to chat with her old-time vivacity.

"Bessie, I am sure you have exaggerated things," remarked Col. Zane after Betty had gone upstairs
to dress for the dance. "Perhaps it is only that Betty grows a little tired of this howling
wilderness. Small wonder if she does. You know she has always been used to comfort and many
young people, places to go and all that. This is her first winter on the frontier. She'll come
round all right."

"Have it your way, Ebenezer," answered his wife with a look of amused contempt on her face.
"I am sure I hope you are right. By the way, what do you think of this Ralfe Miller? He has
been much with Betty of late."

"I do not know the fellow, Bessie. He seems agreeable. He is a good-looking young man. Why
do you ask?"

"The Major told me that Miller had a bad name at Pitt, and that he had been a friend of Simon
Girty before Girty became a renegade."

"Humph! I'll have to speak to Sam. As for knowing Girty, there is nothing terrible in that.
All the women seem to think that Simon is the very prince of devils. I have known all the Girtys
for years. Simon was not a bad fellow before he went over to the Indians. It is his brother
James who has committed most of those deeds which have made the name of Girty so infamous."

"I don't like Miller," continued Mrs. Zane in a hesitating way. "I must admit that I have no
sensible reason for my dislike. He is pleasant and agreeable, yes, but behind it there is a
certain intensity. That man has something on his mind."

"If he is in love with Betty, as you seem to think, he has enough on his mind. I'll vouch for
that," said Col. Zane. "Betty is inclined to be a coquette. If she liked Clarke pretty well,
it may be a lesson to her."

"I wish she were married and settled down. It may have been no great harm for Betty to have
had many admirers while in Philadelphia, but out here on the border it will never do. These
men will not have it. There will be trouble come of Betty's coquettishness."

"Why, Bessie, she is only a child. What would you have her do? Marry the first man who asked her?"

"The clod-hoppers are coming," said Mrs. Zane as the jingling of sleigh bells broke the stillness.

Col. Zane sprang up and opened the door. A broad stream of light flashed from the room and
lighted up the road. Three powerful teams stood before the door. They were hitched to sleds,
or clod-hoppers, which were nothing more than wagon-beds fastened on wooden runners. A chorus
of merry shouts greeted Col. Zane as he appeared in the doorway.

"All right! all right! Here she is," he cried, as Betty ran down the steps.

The Colonel bundled her in a buffalo robe in a corner of the foremost sled. At her feet he
placed a buckskin bag containing a hot stone Mrs. Zane thoughtfully had provided.

"All ready here. Let them go," called the Colonel. "You will have clear weather. Coming back
look well to the traces and keep a watch for the wolves."

The long whips cracked, the bells jingled, the impatient horses plunged forward and away they
went over the glistening snow. The night was clear and cold; countless stars blinked in the
black vault overhead; the pale moon cast its wintry light down on a white and frozen world.
As the runners glided swiftly and smoothly onward showers of dry snow like fine powder flew
from under the horses' hoofs and soon whitened the black-robed figures in the sleds. The way
led down the hill past the Fort, over the creek bridge and along the road that skirted the
Black Forest. The ride was long; it led up and down hills, and through a lengthy stretch of
gloomy forest. Sometimes the drivers walked the horses up a steep climb and again raced them
along a level bottom. Making a turn in the road they saw a bright light in the distance which
marked their destination. In five minutes the horses dashed into a wide clearing. An immense
log fire burned in front of a two-story structure. Streams of light poured from the small windows;
the squeaking of fiddles, the shuffling of many feet, and gay laughter came through the open door.

The steaming horses were unhitched, covered carefully with robes and led into sheltered places,
while the merry party disappeared into the house.

The occasion was the celebration of the birthday of old Dan Watkins' daughter. Dan was one
of the oldest settlers along the river; in fact, he had located his farm several years after
Col. Zane had founded the settlement. He was noted for his open-handed dealing and kindness
of heart. He had loaned many a head of cattle which had never been returned, and many a sack
of flour had left his mill unpaid for in grain. He was a good shot, he would lay a tree on
the ground as quickly as any man who ever swung an axe, and he could drink more whiskey than
any man in the valley.

Dan stood at the door with a smile of welcome upon his rugged features and a handshake and
a pleasant word for everyone. His daughter Susan greeted the men with a little curtsy and kissed
the girls upon the cheek. Susan was not pretty, though she was strong and healthy; her laughing
blue eyes assured a sunny disposition, and she numbered her suitors by the score.

The young people lost no time. Soon the floor was covered with their whirling forms.

In one corner of the room sat a little dried-up old woman with white hair and bright dark eyes.
This was Grandma Watkins. She was very old, so old that no one knew her age, but she was still
vigorous enough to do her day's work with more pleasure than many a younger woman. Just now
she was talking to Wetzel, who leaned upon his inseparable rifle and listened to her chatter.
The hunter liked the old lady and would often stop at her cabin while on his way to the settlement
and leave at her door a fat turkey or a haunch of venison.

"Lew Wetzel, I am ashamed of you." Grandmother Watkins was saying. "Put that gun in the corner
and get out there and dance. Enjoy yourself. You are only a boy yet."

"I'd better look on, mother," answered the hunter.

"Pshaw! You can hop and skip around like any of then and laugh too if you want. I hope that
pretty sister of Eb Zane has caught your fancy."

"She is not for the like of me," he said gently "I haven't the gifts."

"Don't talk about gifts. Not to an old woman who has lived three times and more your age,"
she said impatiently. "It is not gifts a woman wants out here in the West. If she does 'twill
do her no good. She needs a strong arm to build cabins, a quick eye with a rifle, and a fearless
heart. What border-women want are houses and children. They must bring up men, men to drive
the redskins back, men to till the soil, or else what is the good of our suffering here."

"You are right," said Wetzel thoughtfully. "But I'd hate to see a flower like Betty Zane in
a rude hunter's cabin."

"I have known the Zanes for forty year' and I never saw one yet that was afraid of work. And
you might win her if you would give up running mad after Indians. I'll allow no woman would
put up with that. You have killed many Indians. You ought to be satisfied."

"Fightin' redskins is somethin' I can't help," said the hunter, slowly shaking his head. "If
I got married the fever would come on and I'd leave home. No, I'm no good for a woman. Fightin'
is all I'm good for."

"Why not fight for her, then? Don't let one of these boys walk off with her. Look at her. She
likes fun and admiration. I believe you do care for her. Why not try to win her?"

"Who is that tall man with her?" continued the old lady as Wetzel did not answer. "There, they
have gone into the other room. Who is he?"

"His name is Miller."

"Lewis, I don't like him. I have been watching him all evening. I'm a contrary old woman, I
know, but I have seen a good many men in my time, and his face is not honest. He is in love
with her. Does she care for him?"

"No, Betty doesn't care for Miller. She's just full of life and fun."

"You may be mistaken. All the Zanes are fire and brimstone and this girl is a Zane clear through.
Go and fetch her to me, Lewis. I'll tell you if there's a chance for you."

"Dear mother, perhaps there's a wife in Heaven for me. There's none on earth," said the hunter,
a sad smile flitting over his calm face.

Ralfe Miller, whose actions had occasioned the remarks of the old lady, would have been conspicuous
in any assembly of men. There was something in his dark face that compelled interest and yet
left the observer in doubt. His square chin, deep-set eyes and firm mouth denoted a strong
and indomitable will. He looked a man whom it would be dangerous to cross.

Little was known of Miller's history. He hailed from Ft. Pitt, where he had a reputation as
a good soldier, but a man of morose and quarrelsome disposition. It was whispered that he drank,
and that he had been friendly with the renegades McKee, Elliott, and Girty. He had passed the
fall and winter at Ft. Henry, serving on garrison duty. Since he had made the acquaintance
of Betty he had shown her all the attention possible.

On this night a close observer would have seen that Miller was laboring under some strong feeling.
A half-subdued fire gleamed from his dark eyes. A peculiar nervous twitching of his nostrils
betrayed a poorly suppressed excitement.

All evening he followed Betty like a shadow. Her kindness may have encouraged him. She danced
often with him and showed a certain preference for his society. Alice and Lydia were puzzled
by Betty's manner. As they were intimate friends they believed they knew something of her likes
and dislikes. Had not Betty told them she did not care for Mr. Miller? What was the meaning
of the arch glances she bestowed upon him, if she did not care for him? To be sure, it was
nothing wonderful for Betty to smile,--she was always prodigal of her smiles--but she had never
been known to encourage any man. The truth was that Betty had put her new resolution into effect;
to be as merry and charming as any fancy-free maiden could possibly be, and the farthest removed
from a young lady pining for an absent and indifferent sweetheart. To her sorrow Betty played
her part too well.

Except to Wetzel, whose keen eyes little escaped, there was no significance in Miller's hilarity
one moment and sudden thoughtfulness the next. And if there had been, it would have excited
no comment. Most of the young men had sampled some of old Dan's best rye and their flushed
faces and unusual spirits did not result altogether from the exercise of the dance.

After one of the reels Miller led Betty, with whom he had been dancing, into one of the side
rooms. Round the dimly lighted room were benches upon which were seated some of the dancers.
Betty was uneasy in mind and now wished that she had remained at home. They had exchanged several
commonplace remarks when the music struck up and Betty rose quickly to her feet.

"See, the others have gone. Let us return," she said.

"Wait," said Miller hurriedly. "Do not go just yet. I wish to speak to you. I have asked you
many times if you will marry me. Now I ask you again."

"Mr. Miller, I thanked you and begged you not to cause us both pain by again referring to that
subject," answered Betty with dignity. "If you will persist in bringing it up we cannot be
friends any longer."

"Wait, please wait. I have told you that I will not take 'No' for an answer. I love you with
all my heart and soul and I cannot give you up."

His voice was low and hoarse and thrilled with a strong man's passion. Betty looked up into
his face and tears of compassion filled her eyes. Her heart softened to this man, and her conscience
gave her a little twinge of remorse. Could she not have averted all this? No doubt she had
been much to blame, and this thought made her voice very low and sweet as she answered him.

"I like you as a friend, Mr. Miller, but we can never be more than friends. I am very sorry
for you, and angry with myself that I did not try to help you instead of making it worse. Please
do not speak of this again. Come, let us join the others."

They were quite alone in the room. As Betty finished speaking and started for the door Miller
intercepted her. She recoiled in alarm from his white face.

"No, you don't go yet. I won't give you up so easily. No woman can play fast and loose with
me! Do you understand? What have you meant all this winter? You encouraged me. You know you
did," he cried passionately.

"I thought you were a gentleman. I have really taken the trouble to defend you against persons
who evidently were not misled as to your real nature. I will not listen to you," said Betty
coldly. She turned away from him, all her softened feeling changed to scorn.

"You shall listen to me," he whispered as he grasped her wrist and pulled her backward. All
the man's brutal passion had been aroused. The fierce border blood boiled within his heart.
Unmasked he showed himself in his true colors a frontier desperado. His eyes gleamed dark and
lurid beneath his bent brows and a short, desperate laugh passed his lips.

"I will make you love me, my proud beauty. I shall have you yet, one way or another."

"Let me go. How dare you touch me!" cried Betty, the hot blood coloring her face. She struck
him a stinging blow with her free hand and struggled with all her might to free herself; but
she was powerless in his iron grasp. Closer he drew her.

"If it costs me my life I will kiss you for that blow," he muttered hoarsely.

"Oh, you coward! you ruffian! Release me or I will scream."

She had opened her lips to call for help when she saw a dark figure cross the threshold. She
recognized the tall form of Wetzel. The hunter stood still in the doorway for a second and
then with the swiftness of light he sprang forward. The single straightening of his arm sent
Miller backward over a bench to the floor with a crashing sound. Miller rose with some difficulty
and stood with one hand to his head.

"Lew, don't draw your knife," cried Betty as she saw Wetzel's hand go inside his hunting shirt.
She had thrown herself in front of him as Miller got to his feet. With both little hands she
clung to the brawny arm of the hunter, but she could not stay it. Wetzel's hand slipped to
his belt.

"For God's sake, Lew, do not kill him," implored Betty, gazing horror-stricken at the glittering
eyes of the hunter. "You have punished him enough. He only tried to kiss me. I was partly to
blame. Put your knife away. Do not shed blood. For my sake, Lew, for my sake!"

When Betty found that she could not hold Wetzel's arm she threw her arms round his neck and
clung to him with all her young strength. No doubt her action averted a tragedy. If Miller
had been inclined to draw a weapon then he might have had a good opportunity to use it. He
had the reputation of being quick with his knife, and many of his past fights testified that
he was not a coward. But he made no effort to attack Wetzel. It was certain that he measured
with his eye the distance to the door. Wetzel was not like other men. Irrespective of his wonderful
strength and agility there was something about the Indian hunter that terrified all men. Miller
shrank before those eyes. He knew that never in all his life of adventure had he been as near
death as at that moment. There was nothing between him and eternity but the delicate arms of
this frail girl. At a slight wave of the hunter's hand towards the door he turned and passed out.

"Oh, how dreadful!" cried Betty, dropping upon a bench with a sob of relief. "I am glad you
came when you did even though you frightened me more than he did. Promise me that you will
not do Miller any further harm. If you had fought it would all have been on my account; one
or both of you might have been killed. Don't look at me so. I do not care for him. I never
did. Now that I know him I despise him. He lost his senses and tried to kiss me. I could have
killed him myself."

Wetzel did not answer. Betty had been holding his hand in both her own while she spoke impulsively.

"I understand how difficult it is for you to overlook an insult to me," she continued earnestly.
"But I ask it of you. You are my best friend, almost my brother, and I promise you that if
he ever speaks a word to me again that is not what it should be I will tell you."

"I reckon I'll let him go, considerin' how set on it you are."

"But remember, Lew, that he is revengeful and you must be on the lookout," said Betty gravely
as she recalled the malignant gleam in Miller's eyes.

"He's dangerous only like a moccasin snake that hides in the grass."

"Am I all right? Do I look mussed or--or excited--or anything?" asked Betty.

Lewis smiled as she turned round for his benefit. Her hair was a little awry and the lace at
her neck disarranged. The natural bloom had not quite returned to her cheeks. With a look in
his eyes that would have mystified Betty for many a day had she but seen it he ran his gaze
over the dainty figure. Then reassuring her that she looked as well as ever, he led her into
the dance-room.

"So this is Betty Zane. Dear child, kiss me," said Grandmother Watkins when Wetzel had brought
Betty up to her. "Now, let me get a good look at you. Well, well, you are a true Zane. Black
hair and eyes; all fire and pride. Child, I knew your father and mother long before you were
born. Your father was a fine man but a proud one. And how do you like the frontier? Are you
enjoying yourself?"

"Oh, yes, indeed," said Betty, smiling brightly at the old lady.

"Well, dearie, have a good time while you can. Life is hard in a pioneer's cabin. You will
not always have the Colonel to look after you. They tell me you have been to some grand school
in Philadelphia. Learning is very well, but it will not help you in the cabin of one of these
rough men."

"There is a great need of education in all the pioneers' homes. I have persuaded brother Eb
to have a schoolteacher at the Fort next spring."

"First teach the boys to plow and the girls to make Johnny cake. How much you favor your brother
Isaac. He used to come and see me often. So must you in summertime. Poor lad, I suppose he
is dead by this time. I have seen so many brave and good lads go. There now, I did not mean
to make you sad," and the old lady patted Betty's hand and sighed.

"He often spoke of you and said that I must come with him to see you. Now he is gone," said Betty.

"Yes, he is gone, Betty, but you must not be sad while you are so young. Wait until you are
old like I am. How long have you known Lew Wetzel?"

"All my life. He used to carry me in his arm, when I was a baby. Of course I do not remember
that, but as far back as I can go in memory I can see Lew. Oh, the many times he has saved
me from disaster! But why do you ask?"

"I think Lew Wetzel cares more for you than for all the world. He is as silent as an Indian,
but I am an old woman and I can read men's hearts. If he could be made to give up his wandering
life he would be the best man on the border."

"Oh, indeed I think you are wrong. Lew does not care for me in that way," said Betty, surprised
and troubled by the old lady's vehemence.

A loud blast from a hunting-horn directed the attention of all to the platform at the upper
end of the hall, where Dan Watkins stood. The fiddlers ceased playing, the dancers stopped,
and all looked expectantly. The scene was simple strong, and earnest. The light in the eyes
of these maidens shone like the light from the pine cones on the walls. It beamed soft and
warm. These fearless sons of the wilderness, these sturdy sons of progress, standing there
clasping the hands of their partners and with faces glowing with happiness, forgetful of all
save the enjoyment of the moment, were ready to go out on the morrow and battle unto the death
for the homes and the lives of their loved ones.

"Friends," said Dan when the hum of voices had ceased "I never thought as how I'd have to get
up here and make a speech to-night or I might have taken to the woods. Howsomever, mother and
Susan says as it's gettin' late it's about time we had some supper. Somewhere in the big cake
is hid a gold ring. If one of the girls gets it she can keep it as a gift from Susan, and should
one of the boys find it he may make a present to his best girl. And in the bargain he gets
to kiss Susan. She made some objection about this and said that part of the game didn't go,
but I reckon the lucky young man will decide that for hisself. And now to the festal board."

Ample justice was done to the turkey, the venison, and the bear meat. Grandmother Watkins'
delicious apple and pumpkin pies for which she was renowned, disappeared as by magic. Likewise
the cakes and the sweet cider and the apple butter vanished.

When the big cake had been cut and divided among the guests, Wetzel discovered the gold ring
within his share. He presented the ring to Betty, and gave his privilege of kissing Susan to
George Reynolds, with the remark: "George, I calkilate Susan would like it better if you do
the kissin' part." Now it was known to all that George had long been an ardent admirer of Susan's,
and it was suspected that she was not indifferent to him. Nevertheless, she protested that
it was not fair. George acted like a man who had the opportunity of his life. Amid uproarious
laughter he ran Susan all over the room, and when he caught her he pulled her hands away from
her blushing face and bestowed a right hearty kiss on her cheek. To everyone's surprise and
to Wetzel's discomfiture, Susan walked up to him and saying that as he had taken such an easy
way out of it she intended to punish him by kissing him. And so she did. Poor Lewis' face looked
the picture of dismay. Probably he had never been kissed before in his life.

Happy hours speed away on the wings of the wind. The feasting over, the good-byes were spoken,
the girls were wrapped in the warm robes, for it was now intensely cold, and soon the horses,
eager to start on the long homeward journey, were pulling hard on their bits. On the party's
return trip there was an absence of the hilarity which had prevailed on their coming. The bells
were taken off before the sleds left the blockhouse, and the traces and the harness examined
and tightened with the caution of men who were apprehensive of danger and who would take no
chances.

In winter time the foes most feared by the settlers were the timber wolves. Thousands of these
savage beasts infested the wild forest regions which bounded the lonely roads, and their wonderful
power of scent and swift and tireless pursuit made a long night ride a thing to be dreaded.
While the horses moved swiftly danger from wolves was not imminent; but carelessness or some
mishap to a trace or a wheel had been the cause of more than one tragedy.

Therefore it was not remarkable that the drivers of our party breathed a sigh of relief when
the top of the last steep hill had been reached. The girls were quiet, and tired out and cold
they pressed close to one another; the men were silent and watchful.

When they were half way home and had just reached the outskirts of the Black Forest the keen
ear of Wetzel caught the cry of a wolf. It came from the south and sounded so faint that Wetzel
believed at first that he had been mistaken. A few moments passed in which the hunter turned
his ear to the south. He had about made up his mind that he had only imagined he had heard
something when the unmistakable yelp of a wolf came down on the wind. Then another, this time
clear and distinct, caused the driver to turn and whisper to Wetzel. The hunter spoke in a
low tone and the driver whipped up his horses. From out the depths of the dark woods along
which they were riding came a long and mournful howl. It was a wolf answering the call of his
mate. This time the horses heard it, for they threw back their ears and increased their speed.
The girls heard it, for they shrank closer to the men.

There is that which is frightful in the cry of a wolf. When one is safe in camp before a roaring
fire the short, sharp bark of a wolf is startling, and the long howl will make one shudder.
It is so lonely and dismal. It makes no difference whether it be given while the wolf is sitting
on his haunches near some cabin waiting for the remains of the settler's dinner, or while he
is in full chase after his prey--the cry is equally wild, savage and bloodcurdling.

Betty had never heard it and though she was brave, when the howl from the forest had its answer
in another howl from the creek thicket, she slipped her little mittened hand under Wetzel's
arm and looked up at him with frightened eyes.

In half an hour the full chorus of yelps, barks and howls swelled hideously on the air, and
the ever increasing pack of wolves could be seen scarcely a hundred yards behind the sleds.
The patter of their swiftly flying feet on the snow could be distinctly heard. The slender,
dark forms came nearer and nearer every moment. Presently the wolves had approached close enough
for the occupants of the sleds to see their shining eyes looking like little balls of green
fire. A gaunt beast bolder than the others, and evidently the leader of the pack, bounded forward
until he was only a few yards from the last sled. At every jump he opened his great jaws and
uttered a quick bark as if to embolden his followers.

Almost simultaneously with the red flame that burst from Wetzel's rifle came a sharp yelp of
agony from the leader. He rolled over and over. Instantly followed a horrible mingling of snarls
and barks, and snapping of jaws as the band fought over the body of their luckless comrade.

This short delay gave the advantage to the horses. When the wolves again appeared they were
a long way behind. The distance to the fort was now short and the horses were urged to their
utmost. The wolves kept up the chase until they reached the creek bridge and the mill. Then
they slowed up: the howling became desultory, and finally the dark forms disappeared in the
thickets.

CHAPTER VIII.

Winter dragged by uneventfully for Betty. Unlike the other pioneer girls, who were kept busy
all the time with their mending, and linsey weaving, and household duties, Betty had nothing
to divert her but her embroidery and her reading. These she found very tiresome. Her maid was
devoted to her and never left a thing undone. Annie was old Sam's daughter, and she had waited
on Betty since she had been a baby. The cleaning or mending or darning--anything in the shape
of work that would have helped pass away the monotonous hours for Betty, was always done before
she could lift her hand.

During the day she passed hours in her little room, and most of them were dreamed away by her
window. Lydia and Alice came over sometimes and whiled away the tedious moments with their
bright chatter and merry laughter, their castle-building, and their romancing on heroes and
love and marriage as girls always will until the end of time. They had not forgotten Mr. Clarke,
but as Betty had rebuked them with a dignity which forbade any further teasing on that score,
they had transferred their fun-making to the use of Mr. Miller's name.

Fearing her brothers' wrath Betty had not told them of the scene with Miller at the dance.
She had learned enough of rough border justice to dread the consequence of such a disclosure.
She permitted Miller to come to the house, although she never saw him alone. Miller had accepted
this favor gratefully. He said that on the night of the dance he had been a little the worse
for Dan Watkins' strong liquor, and that, together with his bitter disappointment, made him
act in the mad way which had so grievously offended her. He exerted himself to win her forgiveness.
Betty was always tender-hearted, and though she did not trust him, she said they might still
be friends, but that that depended on his respect for her forbearance. Miller had promised
he would never refer to the old subject and he had kept his word.

Indeed Betty welcomed any diversion for the long winter evenings. Occasionally some of the
young people visited her, and they sang and danced, roasted apples, popped chestnuts, and played
games. Often Wetzel and Major McColloch came in after supper. Betty would come down and sing
for them, and afterward would coax Indian lore and woodcraft from Wetzel, or she would play
checkers with the Major. If she succeeded in winning from him, which in truth was not often,
she teased him unmercifully. When Col. Zane and the Major had settled down to their series
of games, from which nothing short of Indians could have diverted them, Betty sat by Wetzel.
The silent man of the woods, an appellation the hunter had earned by his reticence, talked
for Betty as he would for no one else.

One night while Col. Zane, his wife and Betty were entertaining Capt. Boggs and Major McColloch
and several of Betty's girls friends, after the usual music and singing, storytelling became
the order of the evening. Little Noah told of the time he had climbed the apple-tree in the
yard after a raccoon and got severely bitten.

"One day," said Noah, "I heard Tige barking out in the orchard and I ran out there and saw
a funny little fur ball up in the tree with a black tail and white rings around it. It looked
like a pretty cat with a sharp nose. Every time Tige barked the little animal showed his teeth
and swelled up his back. I wanted him for a pet. I got Sam to give me a sack and I climbed
the tree and the nearer I got to him the farther he backed down the limb. I followed him and
put out the sack to put it over his head and he bit me. I fell from the limb, but he fell too
and Tige killed him and Sam stuffed him for me."

"Noah, you are quite a valiant hunter," said Betty. "Now, Jonathan, remember that you promised
to tell me of your meeting with Daniel Boone."

"It was over on the Muskingong near the mouth of the Sandusky. I was hunting in the open woods
along the bank when I saw an Indian. He saw me at the same time and we both treed. There we
stood a long time each afraid to change position. Finally I began to act tired and resorted
to an old ruse. I put my coon-skin cap on my ramrod and cautiously poked it from behind the
tree, expecting every second to hear the whistle of the redskin's bullet. Instead I heard a
jolly voice yell: 'Hey, young feller, you'll have to try something better'n that.' I looked
and saw a white man standing out in the open and shaking all over with laughter. I went up
to him and found him to be a big strong fellow with an honest, merry face. He said: 'I'm Boone.'
I was considerably taken aback, especially when I saw he knew I was a white man all the time.
We camped and hunted along the river a week and at the Falls of the Muskingong he struck out
for his Kentucky home."

"Here is Wetzel," said Col. Zane, who had risen and gone to the door. "Now, Betty, try and
get Lew to tell us something."

"Come, Lewis, here is a seat by me," said Betty. "We have been pleasantly passing the time.
We have had bear stories, snake stories, ghost stories--all kinds of tales. Will you tell us one?"

"Lewis, did you ever have a chance to kill a hostile Indian and not take it?" asked Col. Zane.

"Never but once," answered Lewis.

"Tell us about it. I imagine it will be interesting."

"Well, I ain't good at tellin' things," began Lewis. "I reckon I've seen some strange sights.
I kin tell you about the only redskin I ever let off. Three years ago I was takin' a fall hunt
over on the Big Sandy, and I run into a party of Shawnees. I plugged a chief and started to
run. There was some good runners and I couldn't shake 'em in the open country. Comin' to the
Ohio I jumped in and swum across, keepin' my rifle and powder dry by holdin' 'em up. I hid
in some bulrushes and waited. Pretty soon along comes three Injuns, and when they saw where
I had taken to the water they stopped and held a short pow-wow. Then they all took to the water.
This was what I was waitin' for. When they got nearly acrosst I shot the first redskin, and
loadin' quick got a bullet into the others. The last Injun did not sink. I watched him go floatin'
down stream expectin' every minute to see him go under as he was hurt so bad he could hardly
keep his head above water. He floated down a long ways and the current carried him to a pile
of driftwood which had lodged against a little island. I saw the Injun crawl up on the drift.
I went down stream and by keepin' the island between me and him I got out to where he was.
I pulled my tomahawk and went around the head of the island and found the redskin leanin' against
a big log. He was a young brave and a fine lookin strong feller. He was tryin' to stop the
blood from my bullet-hole in his side. When he saw me he tried to get up, but he was too weak.
He smiled, pointed to the wound and said: 'Deathwind not heap times bad shot.' Then he bowed
his head and waited for the tomahawk. Well, I picked him up and carried him ashore and made
a shack by a spring. I staid there with him. When he got well enough to stand a few days' travel
I got him across the river and givin' him a hunk of deer meat I told him to go, and if I ever
saw him again I'd make a better shot.

"A year afterwards I trailed two Shawnees into Wingenund's camp and got surrounded and captured.
The Delaware chief is my great enemy. They beat me, shot salt into my legs, made me run the
gauntlet, tied me on the back of a wild mustang. Then they got ready to burn me at the stake.
That night they painted my face black and held the usual death dances. Some of the braves got
drunk and worked themselves into a frenzy. I allowed I'd never see daylight. I seen that one
of the braves left to guard me was the young feller I had wounded the year before. He never
took no notice of me. In the gray of the early mornin' when all were asleep and the other watch
dozin' I felt cold steel between my wrists and my buckskin thongs dropped off. Then my feet
were cut loose. I looked round and in the dim light I seen my young brave. He handed me my
own rifle, knife and tomahawk, put his finger on his lips and with a bright smile, as if to
say he was square with me, he pointed to the east. I was out of sight in a minute."

"How noble of him!" exclaimed Betty, her eyes all aglow. "He paid his debt to you, perhaps
at the price of his life."

"I have never known an Indian to forget a promise, or a kind action, or an injury," observed
Col. Zane.

"Are the Indians half as bad as they are called?" asked Betty. "I have heard as many stories
of their nobility as of their cruelty."

"The Indians consider that they have been robbed and driven from their homes. What we think
hideously inhuman is war to them," answered Col. Zane.

"When I came here from Fort Pitt I expected to see and fight Indians every day," said Capt.
Boggs. "I have been here at Wheeling for nearly two years and have never seen a hostile Indian.
There have been some Indians in the vicinity during that time but not one has shown himself
to me. I'm not up to Indian tricks, I know, but I think the last siege must have been enough
for them. I don't believe we shall have any more trouble from them."

"Captain," called out Col. Zane, banging his hand on the table. "I'll bet you my best horse
to a keg of gunpowder that you see enough Indians before you are a year older to make you wish
you had never seen or heard of the western border."

"And I'll go you the same bet," said Major McColloch.

"You see, Captain, you must understand a little of the nature of the Indian," continued Col.
Zane. "We have had proof that the Delawares and the Shawnees have been preparing for an expedition
for months. We shall have another siege some day and to my thinking it will be a longer and
harder one than the last. What say you, Wetzel?"

"I ain't sayin' much, but I don't calkilate on goin' on any long hunts this summer," answered
the hunter.

"And do you think Tarhe, Wingenund, Pipe, Cornplanter, and all those chiefs will unite their
forces and attack us?" asked Betty of Wetzel.

"Cornplanter won't. He has been paid for most of his land and he ain't so bitter. Tarhe is
not likely to bother us. But Pipe and Wingenund and Red Fox--they all want blood."

"Have you seen these chiefs?" said Betty.

"Yes, I know 'em all and they all know me," answered the hunter. "I've watched over many a
trail waitin' for one of 'em. If I can ever get a shot at any of 'em I'll give up Injuns and
go farmin'. Good night, Betty."

"What a strange man is Wetzel," mused Betty, after the visitors had gone. "Do you know, Eb,
he is not at all like any one else. I have seen the girls shudder at the mention of his name
and I have heard them say they could not look in his eyes. He does not affect me that way.
It is not often I can get him to talk, but sometimes he tells me beautiful thing about the
woods; how he lives in the wilderness, his home under the great trees; how every leaf on the
trees and every blade of grass has its joy for him as well as its knowledge; how he curls up
in his little bark shack and is lulled to sleep by the sighing of the wind through the pine
tops. He told me he has often watched the stars for hours at a time. I know there is a waterfall
back in the Black Forest somewhere that Lewis goes to, simply to sit and watch the water tumble
over the precipice."

"Wetzel is a wonderful character, even to those who know him only as an Indian slayer and a
man who wants no other occupation. Some day he will go off on one of these long jaunts and
will never return. That is certain. The day is fast approaching when a man like Wetzel will
be of no use in life. Now, he is a necessity. Like Tige he can smell Indians. Betty, I believe
Lewis tells you so much and is so kind and gentle toward you because he cares for you."

"Of course Lew likes me. I know he does and I want him to," said Betty. "But he does not care
as you seem to think. Grandmother Watkins said the same. I am sure both of you are wrong."

"Did Dan's mother tell you that? Well, she's pretty shrewd. It's quite likely, Betty, quite
likely. It seems to me you are not so quick witted as you used to be."

"Why so?" asked Betty, quickly.

"Well, you used to be different somehow," said her brother, as he patted her hand.

"Do you mean I am more thoughtful?"

"Yes, and sometimes you seem sad."

"I have tried to be brave and--and happy," said Betty, her voice trembling slightly.

"Yes, yes, I know you have, Betty. You have done wonderfully well here in this dead place.
But tell me, don't be angry, don't you think too much of some one?"

"You have no right to ask me that," said Betty, flushing and turning away toward the stairway.

"Well, well, child, don't mind me. I did not mean anything. There, good night, Betty."

Long after she had gone up-stairs Col. Zane sat by his fireside. From time to time he sighed.
He thought of the old Virginia home and of the smile of his mother. It seemed only a few short
years since he had promised her that he would take care of the baby sister. How had he kept
that promise made when Betty was a little thing bouncing on his knee? It seemed only yesterday.
How swift the flight of time! Already Betty was a woman; her sweet, gay girlhood had passed;
already a shadow had fallen on her face, the shadow of a secret sorrow.

        * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

March with its blustering winds had departed, and now April's showers and sunshine were gladdening
the hearts of the settlers. Patches of green freshened the slopes of the hills; the lilac bushes
showed tiny leaves, and the maple-buds were bursting. Yesterday a blue-bird--surest harbinger
of spring--had alighted on the fence-post and had sung his plaintive song. A few more days
and the blossoms were out mingling their pink and white with the green; the red-bud, the hawthorne,
and the dog-wood were in bloom, checkering the hillsides.

"Bessie, spring is here," said Col. Zane, as he stood in the doorway. "The air is fresh, the
sun shines warm, the birds are singing; it makes me feel good."

"Yes, it is pleasant to have spring with us again," answered his wife. "I think, though, that
in winter I am happier. In summer I am always worried. I am afraid for the children to be out
of my sight, and when you are away on a hunt I am distraught until you are home safe."

"Well, if the redskins let us alone this summer it will be something new," he said, laughing.
"By the way, Bess, some new people came to the fort last night. They rafted down from the Monongahela
settlements. Some of the women suffered considerably. I intend to offer them the cabin on the
hill until they can cut the timber and run up a house. Sam said the cabin roof leaked and the
chimney smoked, but with a little work I think they can be made more comfortable there than
at the block-house."

"It is the only vacant cabin in the settlement. I can accommodate the women folks here."

"Well, we'll see about it. I don't want you and Betty inconvenienced. I'll send Sam up to the
cabin and have him fix things up a bit and make it more habitable."

The door opened, admitting Col. Zane's elder boy. The lad's face was dirty, his nose was all
bloody, and a big bruise showed over his right eye.

"For the land's sake!" exclaimed his mother. "Look at the boy. Noah, come here. What have you
been doing?"

Noah crept close to his mother and grasping her apron with both hands hid his face. Mrs. Zane
turned the boy around and wiped his discolored features with a wet towel. She gave him a little
shake and said: "Noah, have you been fighting again?"

"Let him go and I'll tell you about it," said the Colonel, and when the youngster had disappeared
he continued: "Right after breakfast Noah went with me down to the mill. I noticed several
children playing in front of Reihart's blacksmith shop. I went in, leaving Noah outside. I
got a plow-share which I had left with Reihart to be repaired. He came to the door with me
and all at once he said: 'look at the kids.' I looked and saw Noah walk up to a boy and say
something to him. The lad was a stranger, and I have no doubt belongs to these new people I
told you about. He was bigger than Noah. At first the older boy appeared very friendly and
evidently wanted to join the others in their game. I guess Noah did not approve of this, for
after he had looked the stranger over he hauled away and punched the lad soundly. To make it
short the strange boy gave Noah the worst beating he ever got in his life. I told Noah to come
straight to you and confess."

"Well, did you ever!" ejaculated Mrs. Zane. "Noah is a bad boy. And you stood and watched him
fight. You are laughing about it now. Ebenezer Zane, I would not put it beneath you to set
Noah to fighting. I know you used to make the little niggers fight. Anyway, it serves Noah
right and I hope it will be a lesson to him."

"I'll make you a bet, Bessie," said the Colonel, with another laugh. "I'll bet you that unless
we lock him up, Noah will fight that boy every day or every time he meets him."

"I won't bet," said Mrs. Zane, with a smile of resignation.

"Where's Betts? I haven't seen her this morning. I am going over to Short Creek to-morrow or
next day, and think I'll take her with me. You know I am to get a commission to lay out several
settlements along the river, and I want to get some work finished at Short Creek this spring.
Mrs. Raymer'll be delighted to have Betty. Shall I take her?"

"By all means. A visit there will brighten her up and do her good."

"Well, what on earth have you been doing?" cried the Colonel. His remark had been called forth
by a charming vision that had entered by the open door. Betty--for it was she--wore a little
red cap set jauntily on her black hair. Her linsey dress was crumpled and covered with hayseed.

"I've been in the hay-mow," said Betty, waving a small basket. "For a week that old black hen
has circumvented me, but at last I have conquered. I found the nest in the farthest corner
under the hay."

"How did you get up in the loft?" inquired Mrs. Zane.

"Bessie, I climbed up the ladder of course. I acknowledge being unusually light-hearted and
happy this morning, but I have not as yet grown wings. Sam said I could not climb up that straight
ladder, but I found it easy enough."

"You should not climb up into the loft," said Mrs. Zane, in a severe tone. "Only last fall
Hugh Bennet's little boy slid off the hay down into one of the stalls and the horse kicked
him nearly to death."

"Oh, fiddlesticks, Bessie, I am not a baby," said Betty, with vehemence. "There is not a horse
in the barn but would stand on his hind legs before he would step on me, let alone kick me."

"I don't know, Betty, but I think that black horse Mr. Clarke left here would kick any one,"
remarked the Colonel.

"Oh, no, he would not hurt me."

"Betty, we have had pleasant weather for about three days," said the Colonel, gravely. "In
that time you have let out that crazy bear of yours to turn everything topsy-turvy. Only yesterday
I got my hands in the paint you have put on your canoe. If you had asked my advice I would
have told you that painting your canoe should not have been done for a month yet. Silas told
me you fell down the creek hill; Sam said you tried to drive his team over the bluff, and so
on. We are happy to see you get back your old time spirits, but could you not be a little more
careful? Your versatility is bewildering. We do not know what to look for next. I fully expect
to see you brought to the house some day maimed for life, or all that beautiful black hair
gone to decorate some Huron's lodge."

"I tell you I am perfectly delighted that the weather is again so I can go out. I am tired
to death of staying indoors. This morning I could have cried for very joy. Bessie will soon
be lecturing me about Madcap. I must not ride farther than the fort. Well, I don't care. I
intend to ride all over."

"Betty, I do not wish you to think I am lecturing you," said the Colonel's wife. "But you are
as wild as a March hare and some one must tell you things. Now listen. My brother, the Major,
told me that Simon Girty, the renegade, had been heard to say that he had seen Eb Zane's little
sister and that if he ever got his hands on her he would make a squaw of her. I am not teasing
you. I am telling you the truth. Girty saw you when you were at Fort Pitt two years ago. Now
what would you do if he caught you on one of your lonely rides and carried you off to his wigwam?
He has done things like that before. James Girty carried off one of the Johnson girls. Her
brothers tried to rescue her and lost their lives. It is a common trick of the Indians."

"What would I do if Mr. Simon Girty tried to make a squaw of me?" exclaimed Betty, her eyes
flashing fire. "Why, I'd kill him!"

"I believe it, Betts, on my word I do," spoke up the Colonel. "But let us hope you may never
see Girty. All I ask is that you be careful. I am going over to Short Creek to-morrow. Will
you go with me? I know Mrs. Raymer will be pleased to see you."

"Oh, Eb, that will be delightful!"

"Very well, get ready and we shall start early in the morning."

Two weeks later Betty returned from Short Creek and seemed to have profited much by her short
visit. Col. Zane remarked with satisfaction to his wife that Betty had regained all her former
cheerfulness.

The morning after Betty's return was a perfect spring morning--the first in that month of May-days.
The sun shone bright and warm; the mayflowers blossomed; the trailing arbutus scented the air;
everywhere the grass and the leaves looked fresh and green; swallows flitted in and out of
the barn door; the blue-birds twittered; a meadow-lark caroled forth his pure melody, and the
busy hum of bees came from the fragrant apple-blossoms.

"Mis' Betty, Madcap 'pears powerfo' skittenish," said old Sam, when he had led the pony to
where Betty stood on the hitching block. "Whoa, dar, you rascal."

Betty laughed as she leaped lightly into the saddle, and soon she was flying over the old familiar
road, down across the creek bridge, past the old grist-mill, around the fort and then out on
the river bluff. The Indian pony was fiery and mettlesome. He pranced and side-stepped, galloped
and trotted by turns. He seemed as glad to get out again into the warm sunshine as was Betty
herself. He tore down the road a mile at his best speed. Coming back Betty pulled him into
a walk. Presently her musings were interrupted by a sharp switch in the face from a twig of
a tree. She stopped the pony and broke off the offending branch. As she looked around the recollection
of what had happened to her in that very spot flashed into her mind. It was here that she had
been stopped by the man who had passed almost as swiftly out of her life as he had crossed
her path that memorable afternoon. She fell to musing on the old perplexing question. After
all could there not have been some mistake? Perhaps she might have misjudged him? And then
the old spirit, which resented her thinking of him in that softened mood, rose and fought the
old battle over again. But as often happened the mood conquered, and Betty permitted herself
to sink for the moment into the sad thoughts which returned like a mournful strain of music
once sung by beloved voices, now forever silent.

She could not resist the desire to ride down to the old sycamore. The pony turned into the
bridle-path that led down the bluff and the sure-footed beast picked his way carefully over
the roots and stones. Betty's heart beat quicker when she saw the noble tree under whose spreading
branches she had spent the happiest day of her life. The old monarch of the forest was not
one whit changed by the wild winds of winter. The dew sparkled on the nearly full grown leaves;
the little sycamore balls were already as large as marbles.

Betty drew rein at the top of the bank and looked absently at the tree and into the foam covered
pool beneath. At that moment her eyes saw nothing physical. They held the faraway light of
the dreamer, the look that sees so much of the past and nothing of the present.

Presently her reflections were broken by the actions of the pony. Madcap had thrown up her
head, laid back her ears and commenced to paw the ground with her forefeet. Betty looked round
to see the cause of Madcap's excitement. What was that! She saw a tall figure clad in brown
leaning against the stone. She saw a long fishing-rod. What was there so familiar in the poise
of that figure? Madcap dislodged a stone from the path and it went rattling down the rock,
slope and fell with a splash into the water. The man heard it, turned and faced the hillside.
Betty recognized Alfred Clarke. For a moment she believed she must be dreaming. She had had
many dreams of the old sycamore. She looked again. Yes, it was he. Pale, worn, and older he
undoubtedly looked, but the features were surely those of Alfred Clarke. Her heart gave a great
bound and then seemed to stop beating while a very agony of joy surged over her and made her
faint. So he still lived. That was her first thought, glad and joyous, and then memory returning,
her face went white as with clenched teeth she wheeled Madcap and struck her with the switch.
Once on the level bluff she urged her toward the house at a furious pace.

Col. Zane had just stepped out of the barn door and his face took on an expression of amazement
when he saw the pony come tearing up the road, Betty's hair flying in the wind and with a face
as white as if she were pursued by a thousand yelling Indians.

"Say, Betts, what the deuce is wrong?" cried the Colonel, when Betty reached the fence.

"Why did you not tell me that man was here again?" she demanded in intense excitement.

"That man! What man?" asked Col. Zane, considerably taken back by this angry apparition.

"Mr. Clarke, of course. Just as if you did not know. I suppose you thought it a fine opportunity
for one of your jokes."

"Oh, Clarke. Well, the fact is I just found it out myself. Haven't I been away as well as you?
I certainly cannot imagine how any man could create such evident excitement in your mind. Poor
Clarke, what has he done now?"

"You might have told me. Somebody could have told me and saved me from making a fool of myself,"
retorted Betty, who was plainly on the verge of tears. "I rode down to the old sycamore tree
and he saw me in, of all the places in the world, the one place where I would not want him
to see me."

"Huh!" said the Colonel, who often gave vent to the Indian exclamation. "Is that all? I thought
something had happened."

"All! Is it not enough? I would rather have died. He is a man and he will think I followed
him down there, that I was thinking of--that--Oh!" cried Betty, passionately, and then she
strode into the house, slammed the door, and left the Colonel, lost in wonder.

"Humph! These women beat me. I can't make them out, and the older I grow the worse I get,"
he said, as he led the pony into the stable.

Betty ran up-stairs to her room, her head in a whirl stronger than the surprise of Alfred's
unexpected appearance in Fort Henry and stronger than the mortification in having been discovered
going to a spot she should have been too proud to remember was the bitter sweet consciousness
that his mere presence had thrilled her through and through. It hurt her and made her hate
herself in that moment. She hid her face in shame at the thought that she could not help being
glad to see the man who had only trifled with her, the man who had considered the acquaintance
of so little consequence that he had never taken the trouble to write her a line or send her
a message. She wrung her trembling hands. She endeavored to still that throbbing heart and
to conquer that sweet vague feeling which had crept over her and made her weak. The tears began
to come and with a sob she threw herself on the bed and buried her head in the pillow.

An hour after, when Betty had quieted herself and had seated herself by the window a light
knock sounded on the door and Col. Zane entered. He hesitated and came in rather timidly, for
Betty was not to be taken liberties with, and seeing her by the window he crossed the room
and sat down by her side.

Betty did not remember her father or her mother. Long ago when she was a child she had gone
to her brother, laid her head on his shoulder and told him all her troubles. The desire grew
strong within her now. There was comfort in the strong clasp of his hand. She was not proof
against it, and her dark head fell on his shoulder.

        * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

Alfred Clarke had indeed made his reappearance in Fort Henry. The preceding October when he
left the settlement to go on the expedition up the Monongahela River his intention had been
to return to the fort as soon as he had finished his work, but what he did do was only another
illustration of that fatality which affects everything. Man hopefully makes his plans and an
inexorable destiny works out what it has in store for him.

The men of the expedition returned to Fort Henry in due time, but Alfred had been unable to
accompany them. He had sustained a painful injury and had been compelled to go to Fort Pitt
for medical assistance. While there he had received word that his mother was lying very ill
at his old home in Southern Virginia and if he wished to see her alive he must not delay in
reaching her bedside. He left Fort Pitt at once and went to his home, where he remained until
his mother's death. She had been the only tie that bound him to the old home, and now that
she was gone he determined to leave the scene of his boyhood forever.

Alfred was the rightful heir to all of the property, but an unjust and selfish stepfather stood
between him and any contentment he might have found there. He decided he would be a soldier
of fortune. He loved the daring life of a ranger, and preferred to take his chances with the
hardy settlers on the border rather than live the idle life of a gentleman farmer. He declared
his intention to his step-father, who ill-concealed his satisfaction at the turn affairs had
taken. Then Alfred packed his belongings, secured his mother's jewels, and with one sad, backward
glance rode away from the stately old mansion.

It was Sunday morning and Clarke had been two days in Fort Henry. From his little room in the
block-house he surveyed the well-remembered scene. The rolling hills, the broad river, the
green forests seemed like old friends.

"Here I am again," he mused. "What a fool a man can be. I have left a fine old plantation,
slaves, horses, a country noted for its pretty women--for what? Here there can be nothing for
me but Indians, hard work, privation, and trouble. Yet I could not get here quickly enough.
Pshaw! What use to speak of the possibilities of a new country. I cannot deceive myself. It
is she. I would walk a thousand miles and starve myself for months just for one glimpse of
her sweet face. Knowing this what care I for all the rest. How strange she should ride down
to the old sycamore tree yesterday the moment I was there and thinking of her. Evidently she
had just returned from her visit. I wonder if she ever cared. I wonder if she ever thinks of
me. Shall I accept that incident as a happy augury? Well, I am here to find out and find out
I will. Aha! there goes the church bell."

Laughing a little at his eagerness he brushed his coat, put on his cap and went down stairs.
The settlers with their families were going into the meeting house. As Alfred started up the
steps he met Lydia Boggs.

"Why, Mr. Clarke, I heard you had returned," she said, smiling pleasantly and extending her
hand. "Welcome to the fort. I am very glad to see you."

While they were chatting her father and Col. Zane came up and both greeted the young man warmly.

"Well, well, back on the frontier," said the Colonel, in his hearty way. "Glad to see you at
the fort again. I tell you, Clarke, I have taken a fancy to that black horse you left me last
fall. I did not know what to think when Jonathan brought back my horse. To tell you the truth
I always looked for you to come back. What have you been doing all winter?"

"I have been at home. My mother was ill all winter and she died in April."

"My lad, that's bad news. I am sorry," said Col. Zane putting his hand kindly on the young
man's shoulder. "I was wondering what gave you that older and graver look. It's hard, lad,
but it's the way of life."

"I have come back to get my old place with you, Col. Zane, if you will give it to me."

"I will, and can promise you more in the future. I am going to open a road through to Maysville,
Kentucky, and start several new settlements along the river. I will need young men, and am
more than glad you have returned."

"Thank you, Col. Zane. That is more than I could have hoped for."

Alfred caught sight of a trim figure in a gray linsey gown coming down the road. There were
several young people approaching, but he saw only Betty. By some evil chance Betty walked with
Ralfe Miller, and for some mysterious reason, which women always keep to themselves, she smiled
and looked up into his face at a time of all times she should not have done so. Alfred's heart
turned to lead.

When the young people reached the steps the eyes of the rivals met for one brief second, but
that was long enough for them to understand each other. They did not speak. Lydia hesitated
and looked toward Betty.

"Betty, here is--" began Col. Zane, but Betty passed them with flaming cheeks and with not
so much as a glance at Alfred. It was an awkward moment for him.

"Let us go in," he said composedly, and they filed into the church.

As long as he lived Alfred Clarke never forgot that hour. His pride kept him chained in his
seat. Outwardly he maintained his composure, but inwardly his brain seemed throbbing, whirling,
bursting. What an idiot he had been! He understood now why his letter had never been answered.
Betty loved Miller, a man who hated him, a man who would leave no stone unturned to destroy
even a little liking which she might have felt for him. Once again Miller had crossed his path
and worsted him. With a sudden sickening sense of despair he realized that all his fond hopes
had been but dreams, a fool's dreams. The dream of that moment when he would give her his mother's
jewels, the dream of that charming face uplifted to his, the dream of the little cottage to
which he would hurry after his day's work and find her waiting at the gate,--these dreams must
be dispelled forever. He could barely wait until the end of the service. He wanted to be alone;
to fight it out with himself; to crush out of his heart that fair image. At length the hour
ended and he got out before the congregation and hurried to his room.

Betty had company all that afternoon and it was late in the day when Col. Zane ascended the
stairs and entered her room to find her alone.

"Betty, I wish to know why you ignored Mr. Clarke this morning?" said Col. Zane, looking down
on his sister. There was a gleam in his eye and an expression about his mouth seldom seen in
the Colonel's features.

"I do not know that it concerns any one but myself," answered Betty quickly, as her head went
higher and her eyes flashed with a gleam not unlike that in her brother's.

"I beg your pardon. I do not agree with you," replied Col. Zane. "It does concern others. You
cannot do things like that in this little place where every one knows all about you and expect
it to pass unnoticed. Martin's wife saw you cut Clarke and you know what a gossip she is. Already
every one is talking about you and Clarke."

"To that I am indifferent."

"But I care. I won't have people talking about you," replied the Colonel, who began to lose
patience. Usually he had the best temper imaginable. "Last fall you allowed Clarke to pay you
a good deal of attention and apparently you were on good terms when he went away. Now that
he has returned you won't even speak to him. You let this fellow Miller run after you. In my
estimation Miller is not to be compared to Clarke, and judging from the warm greetings I saw
Clarke receive this morning, there are a number of folk who agree with me. Not that I am praising
Clarke. I simply say this because to Bessie, to Jack, to everyone, your act is incomprehensible.
People are calling you a flirt and saying that they would prefer some country manners."

"I have not allowed Mr. Miller to run after me, as you are pleased to term it," retorted Betty
with indignation. "I do not like him. I never see him any more unless you or Bessie or some
one else is present. You know that. I cannot prevent him from walking to church with me."

"No, I suppose not, but are you entirely innocent of those sweet glances which you gave him
this morning?"

"I did not," cried Betty with an angry blush. "I won't be called a flirt by you or by anyone
else. The moment I am civil to some man all these old maids and old women say I am flirting.
It is outrageous."

"Now, Betty, don't get excited. We are getting from the question. Why are you not civil to
Clarke?" asked Col. Zane. She did not answer and after a moment he continued. "If there is
anything about Clarke that I do not know and that I should know I want you to tell me. Personally
I like the fellow. I am not saying that to make you think you ought to like him because I do.
You might not care for him at all, but that would be no good reason for your actions. Betty,
in these frontier settlements a man is soon known for his real worth. Every one at the Fort
liked Clarke. The youngsters adored him. Jessie liked him very much. You know he and Isaac
became good friends. I think he acted like a man to-day. I saw the look Miller gave him. I
don't like this fellow Miller, anyway. Now, I am taking the trouble to tell you my side of
the argument. It is not a question of your liking Clarke--that is none of my affair. It is
simply that either he is not the man we all think him or you are acting in a way unbecoming
a Zane. I do not purpose to have this state of affairs continue. Now, enough of this beating
about the bush."

Betty had seen the Colonel angry more than once, but never with her. It was quite certain she
had angered him and she forgot her own resentment. Her heart had warmed with her brother's
praise of Clarke. Then as she remembered the past she felt a scorn for her weakness and such
a revulsion of feeling that she cried out passionately:

"He is a trifler. He never cared for me. He insulted me."

Col. Zane reached for his hat, got up without saying another word and went down stairs.

Betty had not intended to say quite what she had and instantly regretted her hasty words. She
called to the Colonel, but he did not answer her, nor return.

"Betty, what in the world could you have said to my husband?" said Mrs. Zane as she entered
the room. She was breathless from running up the stairs and her comely face wore a look of
concern. "He was as white as that sheet and he stalked off toward the Fort without a word to me."

"I simply told him Mr. Clarke had insulted me," answered Betty calmly.

"Great Heavens! Betty, what have you done?" exclaimed Mrs. Zane. "You don't know Eb when he
is angry. He is a big fool over you, anyway. He is liable to kill Clarke."

Betty's blood was up now and she said that would not be a matter of much importance.

"When did he insult you?" asked the elder woman, yielding to her natural curiosity.

"It was last October."

"Pooh! It took you a long time to tell it. I don't believe it amounted to much. Mr. Clarke
did not appear to be the sort of a man to insult anyone. All the girls were crazy about him
last year. If he was not all right they would not have been."

"I do not care if they were. The girls can have him and welcome. I don't want him. I never
did. I am tired of hearing everyone eulogize him. I hate him. Do you hear? I hate him! And
I wish you would go away and leave me alone."

"Well, Betty, all I will say is that you are a remarkable young woman," answered Mrs. Zane,
who saw plainly that Betty's violent outburst was a prelude to a storm of weeping. "I don't
believe a word you have said. I don't believe you hate him. There!"

Col. Zane walked straight to the Fort, entered the block-house and knocked on the door of Clarke's
room. A voice bade him come in. He shoved open the door and went into the room. Clarke had
evidently just returned from a tramp in the hills, for his garments were covered with burrs
and his boots were dusty. He looked tired, but his face was calm.

"Why, Col. Zane! Have a seat. What can I do for you?"

"I have come to ask you to explain a remark of my sister's."

"Very well, I am at your service," answered Alfred slowly lighting his pipe, after which he
looked straight into Col. Zane's face.

"My sister informs me that you insulted her last fall before you left the Fort. I am sure you
are neither a liar nor a coward, and I expect you to answer as a man."

"Col. Zane, I am not a liar, and I hope I am not a coward," said Alfred coolly. He took a long
pull on his pipe and blew a puff of white smoke toward the ceiling.

"I believe you, but I must have an explanation. There is something wrong somewhere. I saw Betty
pass you without speaking this morning. I did not like it and I took her to task about it.
She then said you had insulted her. Betty is prone to exaggerate, especially when angry, but
she never told me a lie in her life. Ever since you pulled Isaac out of the river I have taken
an interest in you. That's why I'd like to avoid any trouble. But this thing has gone far enough.
Now be sensible, swallow your pride and let me hear your side of the story."

Alfred had turned pale at his visitor's first words. There was no mistaking Col. Zane's manner.
Alfred well knew that the Colonel, if he found Betty had really been insulted, would call him
out and kill him. Col. Zane spoke quietly, ever kindly, but there was an undercurrent of intense
feeling in his voice, a certain deadly intent which boded ill to anyone who might cross him
at that moment. Alfred's first impulse was a reckless desire to tell Col. Zane he had nothing
to explain and that he stood ready to give any satisfaction in his power. But he wisely thought
better of this. It struck him that this would not be fair, for no matter what the girl had
done the Colonel had always been his friend. So Alfred pulled himself together and resolved
to make a clean breast of the whole affair.

"Col. Zane, I do not feel that I owe your sister anything, and what I am going to tell you
is simply because you have always been my friend, and I do not want you to have any wrong ideas
about me. I'll tell you the truth and you can be the judge as to whether or not I insulted
your sister. I fell in love with her, almost at first sight. The night after the Indians recaptured
your brother, Betty and I stood out in the moonlight and she looked so bewitching and I felt
so sorry for her and so carried away by my love for her that I yielded to a momentary impulse
and kissed her. I simply could not help it. There is no excuse for me. She struck me across
the face and ran into the house. I had intended that night to tell her of my love and place
my fate in her hands, but, of course, the unfortunate occurrence made that impossible. As I
was to leave at dawn next day, I remained up all night, thinking what I ought to do. Finally
I decided to write. I wrote her a letter, telling her all and begging her to become my wife.
I gave the letter to your slave, Sam, and told him it was a matter of life and death, and not
to lose the letter nor fail to give it to Betty. I have had no answer to that letter. Today
she coldly ignored me. That is my story, Col. Zane."

"Well, I don't believe she got the letter," said Col. Zane. "She has not acted like a young
lady who has had the privilege of saying 'yes' or 'no' to you. And Sam never had any use for
you. He disliked you from the first, and never failed to say something against you."

"I'll kill that d--n nigger if he did not deliver that letter," said Clarke, jumping up in
his excitement. "I never thought of that. Good Heaven! What could she have thought of me? She
would think I had gone away without a word. If she knew I really loved her she could not think
so terribly of me."

"There is more to be explained, but I am satisfied with your side of it," said Col. Zane. "Now
I'll go to Sam and see what has become of that letter. I am glad I am justified in thinking
of you as I have. I imagine this thing has hurt you and I don't wonder at it. Maybe we can
untangle the problem yet. My advice would be--but never mind that now. Anyway, I'm your friend
in this matter. I'll let you know the result of my talk with Sam."

"I thought that young fellow was a gentleman," mused Col. Zane as he crossed the green square
and started up the hill toward the cabins. He found the old negro seated on his doorstep.

"Sam, what did you do with a letter Mr. Clarke gave you last October and instructed you to
deliver to Betty?"

"I dun recollec' no lettah, sah," replied Sam.

"Now, Sam, don't lie about it. Clarke has just told me that he gave you the letter. What did
you do with it?"

"Masse Zane, I ain dun seen no lettah," answered the old darkey, taking a dingy pipe from his
mouth and rolling his eyes at his master.

"If you lie again I will punish you," said Col. Zane sternly. "You are getting old, Sam, and
I would not like to whip you, but I will if you do not find that letter."

Sam grumbled, and shuffled inside the cabin. Col. Zane heard him rummaging around. Presently
he came back to the door and handed a very badly soiled paper to the Colonel.

"What possessed you to do this, Sam? You have always been honest. Your act has caused great
misunderstanding and it might have led to worse."

"He's one of dem no good Southern white trash; he's good fer nuttin'," said Sam. "I saw yo'
sistah, Mis' Betty, wit him, and I seen she was gittin' fond of him, and I says I ain't gwinter
have Mis' Betty runnin' off wif him. And I'se never gibbin de lettah to her."

That was all the explanation Sam would vouchsafe, and Col. Zane, knowing it would be useless
to say more to the well-meaning but ignorant and superstitious old negro, turned and wended
his way back to the house. He looked at the paper and saw that it was addressed to Elizabeth
Zane, and that the ink was faded until the letters were scarcely visible.

"What have you there?" asked his wife, who had watched him go up the hill to the negro's cabin.
She breathed a sigh of relief when she saw that her husband's face had recovered its usual
placid expression.

"It is a little letter for that young fire-brand up stairs, and, I believe it will clear up
the mystery. Clarke gave it to Sam last fall and Sam never gave it to Betty."

"I hope with all my heart it may settle Betty. She worries me to death with her love affairs."

Col. Zane went up stairs and found the young lady exactly as he had left her. She gave an impatient
toss of her head as he entered.

"Well, Madam, I have here something that may excite even your interest." he said cheerily.

"What?" asked Betty with a start. She flushed crimson when she saw the letter and at first
refused to take it from her brother. She was at a loss to understand his cheerful demeanor.
He had been anything but pleasant a few moments since.

"Here, take it. It is a letter from Mr. Clarke which you should have received last fall. That
last morning he gave this letter to Sam to deliver to you, and the crazy old nigger kept it.
However, it is too late to talk of that, only it does seem a great pity. I feel sorry for both
of you. Clarke never will forgive you, even if you want him to, which I am sure you do not.
I don't know exactly what is in this letter, but I know it will make you ashamed to think you
did not trust him."

With this parting reproof the Colonel walked out, leaving Betty completely bewildered. The
words "too late," "never forgive," and "a great pity" rang through her head. What did he mean?
She tore the letter open with trembling hands and holding it up to the now fast-waning light,
she read

"Dear Betty:

"If you had waited only a moment longer I know you would not have been so angry with me. The
words I wanted so much to say choked me and I could not speak them. I love you. I have loved
you from the very first moment, that blessed moment when I looked up over your pony's head
to see the sweetest face the sun ever shone on. I'll be the happiest man on earth if you will
say you care a little for me and promise to be my wife.

"It was wrong to kiss you and I beg your forgiveness. Could you but see your face as I saw
it last night in the moonlight, I would not need to plead: you would know that the impulse
which swayed me was irresistible. In that kiss I gave you my hope, my love, my life, my all.
Let it plead for me.

"I expect to return from Ft. Pitt in about six or eight weeks, but I cannot wait until then
for your answer.

"With hope I sign myself,

"Yours until death,

"Alfred."

Betty read the letter through. The page blurred before her eyes; a sensation of oppression
and giddiness made her reach out helplessly with both hands. Then she slipped forward and fell
on the floor. For the first time in all her young life Betty had fainted. Col. Zane found her
lying pale and quiet under the window.

CHAPTER IX.

Yantwaia, or, as he was more commonly called, Cornplanter, was originally a Seneca chief, but
when the five war tribes consolidated, forming the historical "Five Nations," he became their
leader. An old historian said of this renowned chieftain: "Tradition says that the blood of
a famous white man coursed through the veins of Cornplanter. The tribe he led was originally
ruled by an Indian queen of singular power and beauty. She was born to govern her people by
the force of her character. Many a great chief importuned her to become his wife, but she preferred
to cling to her power and dignity. When this white man, then a very young man, came to the
Ohio valley the queen fell in love with him, and Cornplanter was their son."

Cornplanter lived to a great age. He was a wise counsellor, a great leader, and he died when
he was one hundred years old, having had more conceded to him by the white men than any other
chieftain. General Washington wrote of him: "The merits of Cornplanter and his friendship for
the United States are well known and shall not be forgotten."

But Cornplanter had not always been a friend to the palefaces. During Dunmore's war and for
years after, he was one of the most vindictive of the savage leaders against the invading pioneers.

It was during this period of Cornplanter's activity against the whites that Isaac Zane had
the misfortune to fall into the great chief's power.

We remember Isaac last when, lost in the woods, weak from hunger and exposure, he had crawled
into a thicket and had gone to sleep. He was awakened by a dog licking his face. He heard Indian
voices. He got up and ran as fast as he could, but exhausted as he was he proved no match for
his pursuers. They came up with him and seeing that he was unable to defend himself they grasped
him by the arms and led him down a well-worn bridle-path.

"D--n poor run. No good legs," said one of his captors, and at this the other two Indians laughed.
Then they whooped and yelled, at which signal other Indians joined them. Isaac saw that they
were leading him into a large encampment. He asked the big savage who led him what camp it
was, and learned that he had fallen into the hands of Cornplanter.

While being marched through the large Indian village Isaac saw unmistakable indications of
war. There was a busy hum on all sides; the squaws were preparing large quantities of buffalo
meat, cutting it in long, thin strips, and were parching corn in stone vessels. The braves
were cleaning rifles, sharpening tomahawks, and mixing war paints. All these things Isaac knew
to be preparations for long marches and for battle. That night he heard speech after speech
in the lodge next to the one in which he lay, but they were in an unknown tongue. Later he
heard the yelling of the Indians and the dull thud of their feet as they stamped on the ground.
He heard the ring of the tomahawks as they were struck into hard wood. The Indians were dancing
the war-dance round the war-post. This continued with some little intermission all the four
days that Isaac lay in the lodge rapidly recovering his strength. The fifth day a man came
into the lodge. He was tall and powerful, his hair fell over his shoulders and he wore the
scanty buckskin dress of the Indian. But Isaac knew at once he was a white man, perhaps one
of the many French traders who passed through the Indian village.

"Your name is Zane," said the man in English, looking sharply at Isaac.

"That is my name. Who are you?" asked Isaac in great surprise.

"I am Girty. I've never seen you, but I knew Col. Zane and Jonathan well. I've seen your sister;
you all favor one another."

"Are you Simon Girty?"

"Yes."

"I have heard of your influence with the Indians. Can you do anything to get me out of this?"

"How did you happen to git over here? You are not many miles from Wingenund's Camp," said Girty,
giving Isaac another sharp look from his small black eyes.

"Girty, I assure you I am not a spy. I escaped from the Wyandot village on Mad River and after
traveling three days I lost my way. I went to sleep in a thicket and when I awoke an Indian
dog had found me. I heard voices and saw three Indians. I got up and ran, but they easily caught
me."

"I know about you. Old Tarhe has a daughter who kept you from bein' ransomed."

"Yes, and I wish I were back there. I don't like the look of things."

"You are right, Zane. You got ketched at a bad time. The Indians are mad. I suppose you don't
know that Col. Crawford massacred a lot of Indians a few days ago. It'll go hard with any white
man that gits captured. I'm afraid I can't do nothin' for you."

A few words concerning Simon Girty, the White Savage. He had two brothers, James and George,
who had been desperadoes before they were adopted by the Delawares, and who eventually became
fierce and relentless savages. Simon had been captured at the same time as his brothers, but
he did not at once fall under the influence of the unsettled, free-and-easy life of the Indians.
It is probable that while in captivity he acquired the power of commanding the Indians' interest
and learned the secret of ruling them--two capabilities few white men ever possessed. It is
certain that he, like the noted French-Canadian Joucaire, delighted to sit round the camp fires
and to go into the council-lodge and talk to the assembled Indians.

At the outbreak of the revolution Girty was a commissioned officer of militia at Ft. Pitt.
He deserted from the Fort, taking with him the Tories McKee and Elliott, and twelve soldiers,
and these traitors spread as much terror among the Delaware Indians as they did among the whites.
The Delawares had been one of the few peacefully disposed tribes. In order to get them to join
their forces with Governor Hamilton, the British commander, Girty declared that Gen. Washington
had been killed, that Congress had been dispersed, and that the British were winning all the
battles.

Girty spoke most of the Indian languages, and Hamilton employed him to go among the different
Indian tribes and incite them to greater hatred of the pioneers. This proved to be just the
life that suited him. He soon rose to have a great and bad influence on all the tribes. He
became noted for his assisting the Indians in marauds, for his midnight forays, for his scalpings,
and his efforts to capture white women, and for his devilish cunning and cruelty.

For many years Girty was the Deathshead of the frontier. The mention of his name alone created
terror in any household; in every pioneer's cabin it made the children cry out in fear and
paled the cheeks of the stoutest-hearted wife.

It is difficult to conceive of a white man's being such a fiend in human guise. The only explanation
that can be given is that renegades rage against the cause of their own blood with the fury
of insanity rather than with the malignity of a naturally ferocious temper. In justice to Simon
Girty it must be said that facts not known until his death showed he was not so cruel and base
as believed; that some deeds of kindness were attributed to him; that he risked his life to
save Kenton from the stake, and that many of the terrible crimes laid at his door were really
committed by his savage brothers.

Isaac Zane suffered no annoyance at the hands of Cornplanter's braves until the seventh day
of his imprisonment. He saw no one except the squaw who brought him corn and meat. On that
day two savages came for him and led him into the immense council-lodge of the Five Nations.
Cornplanter sat between his right-hand chiefs, Big Tree and Half Town, and surrounded by the
other chiefs of the tribes. An aged Indian stood in the center of the lodge and addressed the
others. The listening savages sat immovable, their faces as cold and stern as stone masks.
Apparently they did not heed the entrance of the prisoner.

"Zane, they're havin' a council," whispered a voice in Isaac's ear. Isaac turned and recognized
Girty. "I want to prepare you for the worst."

"Is there, then, no hope for me?" asked Isaac.

"I'm afraid not," continued the renegade, speaking in a low whisper. "They wouldn't let me
speak at the council. I told Cornplanter that killin' you might bring the Hurons down on him,
but he wouldn't listen. Yesterday, in the camp of the Delawares, I saw Col. Crawford burnt
at the stake. He was a friend of mine at Pitt, and I didn't dare to say one word to the frenzied
Indians. I had to watch the torture. Pipe and Wingenund, both old friends of Crawford, stood
by and watched him walk round the stake on the red-hot coals five hours."

Isaac shuddered at the words of the renegade, but did not answer. He had felt from the first
that his case was hopeless, and that no opportunity for escape could possibly present itself
in such a large encampment. He set his teeth hard and resolved to show the red devils how a
white man could die.

Several speeches were made by different chiefs and then an impressive oration by Big Tree.
At the conclusion of the speeches, which were in an unknown tongue to Isaac, Cornplanter handed
a war-club to Half Town. This chief got up, walked to the end of the circle, and there brought
the club down on the ground with a resounding thud. Then he passed the club to Big Tree. In
a solemn and dignified manner every chief duplicated Half Town's performance with the club.

Isaac watched the ceremony as if fascinated. He had seen a war-club used in the councils of
the Hurons and knew that striking it on the ground signified war and death.

"White man, you are a killer of Indians," said Cornplanter in good English. "When the sun shines
again you die."

A brave came forward and painted Isaac's face black. This Isaac knew to indicate that death
awaited him on the morrow. On his way back to his prison-lodge he saw that a war-dance was
in progress.

A hundred braves with tomahawks, knives, and mallets in their hands were circling round a post
and keeping time to the low music of a muffled drum. Close together, with heads bowed, they
marched. At certain moments, which they led up to with a dancing on rigid legs and a stamping
with their feet, they wheeled, and uttering hideous yells, started to march in the other direction.
When this had been repeated three times a brave stepped from the line, advanced, and struck
his knife or tomahawk into the post. Then with a loud voice he proclaimed his past exploits
and great deeds in war. The other Indians greeted this with loud yells of applause and a flourishing
of weapons. Then the whole ceremony was gone through again.

That afternoon many of the Indians visited Isaac in his lodge and shook their fists at him
and pointed their knives at him. They hissed and groaned at him. Their vindictive faces expressed
the malignant joy they felt at the expectation of putting him to the torture.

When night came Isaac's guards laced up the lodge-door and shut him from the sight of the maddened
Indians. The darkness that gradually enveloped him was a relief. By and by all was silent except
for the occasional yell of a drunken savage. To Isaac it sounded like a long, rolling death-cry
echoing throughout the encampment and murdering his sleep. Its horrible meaning made him shiver
and his flesh creep. At length even that yell ceased. The watch-dogs quieted down and the perfect
stillness which ensued could almost be felt. Through Isaac's mind ran over and over again the
same words. His last night to live! His last night to live! He forced himself to think of other
things. He lay there in the darkness of his tent, but he was far away in thought, far away
in the past with his mother and brothers before they had come to this bloodthirsty country.
His thoughts wandered to the days of his boyhood when he used to drive the sows to the pasture
on the hillside, and in his dreamy, disordered fancy he was once more letting down the bars
of the gate. Then he was wading in the brook and whacking the green frogs with his stick. Old
playmates' faces, forgotten for years, were there looking at him from the dark wall of his
wigwam. There was Andrew's face; the faces of his other brothers; the laughing face of his
sister; the serene face of his mother. As he lay there with the shadow of death over him sweet
was the thought that soon he would be reunited with that mother. The images faded slowly away,
swallowed up in the gloom. Suddenly a vision appeared to him. A radiant white light illumined
the lodge and shone full on the beautiful face of the Indian maiden who had loved him so well.
Myeerah's dark eyes were bright with an undying love and her lips smiled hope.

A rude kick dispelled Isaac's dreams. A brawny savage pulled him to his feet and pushed him
outside of the lodge.

It was early morning. The sun had just cleared the low hills in the east and its red beams
crimsoned the edges of the clouds of fog which hung over the river like a great white curtain.
Though the air was warm, Isaac shivered a little as the breeze blew softly against his cheek.
He took one long look toward the rising sun, toward that east he had hoped to see, and then
resolutely turned his face away forever.

Early though it was the Indians were astir and their whooping rang throughout the valley. Down
the main street of the village the guards led the prisoner, followed by a screaming mob of
squaws and young braves and children who threw sticks and stones at the hated Long Knife.

Soon the inhabitants of the camp congregated on the green oval in the midst of the lodges.
When the prisoner appeared they formed in two long lines facing each other, and several feet
apart. Isaac was to run the gauntlet--one of the severest of Indian tortures. With the exception
of Cornplanter and several of his chiefs, every Indian in the village was in line. Little Indian
boys hardly large enough to sling a stone; maidens and squaws with switches or spears; athletic
young braves with flashing tomahawks; grim, matured warriors swinging knotted war clubs,--all
were there in line, yelling and brandishing their weapons in a manner frightful to behold.

The word was given, and stripped to the waist, Isaac bounded forward fleet as a deer. He knew
the Indian way of running the gauntlet. The head of that long lane contained the warriors and
older braves and it was here that the great danger lay. Between these lines he sped like a
flash, dodging this way and that, running close in under the raised weapons, taking what blows
he could on his uplifted arms, knocking this warrior over and doubling that one up with a lightning
blow in the stomach, never slacking his speed for one stride, so that it was extremely difficult
for the Indians to strike him effectually. Zadig wanted to see what he wrote: arrimóse, and saw a Z,
then an A, and wondered: then read a D, and gave her heart skip a beat, but never was both
his astonishment, as the two rearward Quando read letters in his name. Remained motionless for
a while, finally breaking the silence, unsure, voice, said: "Generous Lady, forgive to a hapless
foreigner who dares to ask why anything strange encounter here the name of Zadig, by thy divine
hand writing? On hearing this voice and these words, lifted with trembling hand the lady her
veil, myth Zadig, uttered a cry of Temur, wonder and joy, and surrendering to the various emotions
that together embatian his soul fainted in arms. Was Astarte, was the queen of Babylon, the
same as Zadig idolized, and whose love his conscience accused him, those whose fate had cost
so many tears. He spent some time deprived of the use of their senses, and when their eyes Cluver's
eyes slowly Astarte opened again between faint, confused, loving, O immortal powers! exclaimed, "Restitais
me to my Astarte? What time, what site, around to see what state? Hincóse knees before Astarte,
bowing his fiente Baxo dust of your feet. Lift it up the Queen of Babylon, and I feel it themselves
on the banks of the stream, a thousand times enxugar eyes always bathed in fresh tears. Twenty
times ci knotted thread of reasons that blocked her moans; doeth questions about anything that
had gathered, and did not rise to that respond to new questions, beginning to tell their misfortunes,
and wanted to know those Zadig. Having finally both a little calm the tumult of his breast,
he said in brief Perhaps why Zadig was in this meadow. But as I am, or respectable queen and
unfortunate, in this deviant site, dressed in a slave and other slaves who accompanied looking for
a basilisk, for boiling, under a doctor's prescription, in rose water?

While they are looking for their basilisk, I shall inform you, 'said
the fair Astarte, all I have suffered, and forgive the sky once you
get to see you.

You know that the king My husband took it amiss that you were the kindest of all men, and perhaps
for this reason took a night to send you the determination to hang, and give me a tósigo, and
also know that compassionate heaven disposed to let me know my dwarf silent orders of his sublime
Majesty. No sooner had I pointed the faithful Cador to obey and depart, she dared to penetrate
by a side door in my fourth at midnight, I pulled out of the palace, and took me to temple
of Orosmades, where I locked her brother magician into a colossal statue which is based rests on
the foundation of the temple, and the head touches the roof. This was like buried as the magician
who served me made sure that I shall not want. At break of day, entered my quarto of His Majesty
the chemist with a potion of henbane, opium, hemlock, black hellebore, and anapelo, and another
officer went to your house with a blue silk cord; Nias found no to anyone. For more deceive
the king, Cador him a false complaint against two of us, pretending you wore you the way to
India, and mine in Memphis, and sent people in our trackers.

I knew the messengers who were looking fight, because it seldom had
shown me face, unless it was to you, before my husband and by his
order.

Chasing Ibanme by signs that they had given me, and found the line of Egypt with other my height
itself, and that perhaps was more beautiful. I was in tears, and walked heedless, so that
they did not doubt that she was the queen of Babylon, and to Moabdar conduxéron. Wroth King violently
by mistake, but after having covered more closely to this woman, saw that it was very beautiful,
and was comforted. Missouf was called, a name which, according to later I am told, means the
beautiful Egyptian, capricious, and it was indeed, but were not in behind their gear to their
cravings, while having to Moabdar liked him so captivated who declared his lawful wife. Manifestóse
then frankly its kind, giving unchecked to all the extravagances of his imagination. Wished to
stress the high magician, old and gout, to which Bayle in his presence, and having refused
this, he was haunted by death. In the Horse I ordered a sweet cake, and since it was not represented
baker, all was in vain: he had to make the cake, and let him go because he was so toast. The
office of the Horse was given to his dwarf, and a page to him tax advice: ruled in this way
to Babylon. Llorábame around the world, and the king, until he had sent me hang and poison had
been pretty good, I leave that his virtues runners to shipwreck on his love of beautiful fanciful.
The day of the sacred fire came to the temple, and I saw him implore the gods for Missouf,
prostrate before the statue where I was stuck. Then raising voice, I said to him: "The Gods
dismiss the pleas of a king became a tyrant, and has wanted to take the life of a woman on
trial for marrying a crazy woman. "put these words Moabdar on such a confusion to which he was
the head. In oracle I had pronounced and the tyranny of Missouf had plenty to lose his reason, and
with effect in a few days went crazy.

This madness, which was attributed to punishment from heaven, was the signal for rebellion: amotinóse
the people and took weapons, Babylon, where queen into a pier as long idleness, became theater
of a horrific civil war.

They pulled me out of the hole of my statue; They put forward of a party, and Cador was running
to Memphis, to bring him to Babylon. News of such fatal New Prince of Hircania came with his
army to form third party in Chaldea and came to attack the king met him with his blundering Egyptian.
Moabdar died, pierced by a thousand cuts, and fell in the hands of the victor Missouf. It was my
misfortune that I also was caught by a band of guerrillas Hyrcanus, Condux me into the presence
of the prince, at the same time it took to Missouf. Surely ye shall know that I had the satisfaction
for more beautiful than the Egyptian, but shall not be less feeling for what you say you I devoted
to his harem, saying without beating about the bush, then to conclude a military expedition
to qual was scheduled to leave, would come to me. Imagine qual was my grief: Broken links with
Moabdar shook me, could be Zadig, and fell in the irons of a barbarian. I replied with all
the pride that my high large hierarchy inspired me and my affections, having heard that all
my life that people of my dignity of the heavens had endowed of such greatness, with a word and
a look of eyes mingled in the dust of the blue to quanta were reckless daring to depart from
a point in the most reverent obedience. Spoke as Queen, but I was treated like a maid of pitcher:
the Hyrcanus, without even deigning to answer, he said to his black eunuch that I was swearing,
but he seemed nice. Ordered him to me take care and give me the treatment to those who were
in his favor, that I became the colors, and were more worthy of his touch on the day it seemed
appropriate to honor them. Dixel would kill me, and I replied laughing that none were killed by these
things and was accustomed to such fuss and went as a xilguero dexándome cage. What situation
for the first reyiia of the universe, and more for a heart that was Zadig!

And he knelt down to hear these reasons, watering with tears plants Astarte. Alzola this affectionately,
and went on to say: Viamed in the hands of a barbarian, and competition with a crazy who was locked.
Contour Missouf his adventure in Egypt, and for painting that you
did, by time, by the dromedary in ye were mounted, and the other circumstances
came to the attention of Zadig was who had fought in their defense;
and no doubt you were in Memphis, I determined to take refuge in this
city.

Bella Missouf, I said to him, "you are much more comely than I, and looking for fun rather
Hyrcanian Prince: procuradme means of escape; reynaréis you alone, and you will make me happy,
librándoos of a rival. Missouf helped me to make my flight, and I departed secretly with an
Egyptian slave.

Already played with Saudi, when a robber stole my very name, called Arboga, the qual I sold
to some merchants that they brought me to this palace, where he lives, Mr. Ogul, which I bought without
knowing who I was. This is a glutton, who thinks only of binge well, and believes that God has
put the world to enjoy a bueu table. He is so excessively fat, which
every moment seems he is going to burst.

Your doctor is with him little influx Quando makes good digestion, but when they have high-handedly
sends ahitera and now has made believe that he had to heal with a basilisk boiled in rose water.
Has promised to give hand to the slave that traxere a basilisk, and you see me I leave they
deserve the very high honors, having never been less willing to bump the basilisk that since
they have heaven wanted to come back to see you.

Astarte and Zadig Dixéronse quanto then the most generous and passionate breasts could countered
inspire affection so long and so much love and so much misery, and geniuses that love led preside
reasons of both in the sphere of Venus.

He turned about a fifth of the women Ogul without having found anything. Zadig was introduced
to him, and said to him: the sky Descend the immortal Hygia to dilate your years. I am a doctor;
I've been having heard of your illness, and I am bringing a basilisk
in boiling water Rose, not because I aspire to marry you, I ask only
the freedom of a young slave Babylon, which I sold a few days ago,
and I acquiesced to remain a slave in his place, if I have the joy
of healing the magnificent Mr. Ogul.

The proposal was accepted, and went to Babylon, Astarte in the company of Zadig's servant, promising
that he would ship out immediately a messenger to inform had quanto happened. No less than his
recognition were loving their vouchers, because, as written in the great book of Zenda, the two
most solemn times of life is the moment we meet again, and that we
parted.

Zadig to the Queen wanted as much as he swore, and Zadig loved the queen more than what he said.

Zadig
spoke in this way to Ogul, Lord, my basilisk not eat, that all virtue is you must enter through
the pores, I've put in a good swollen wineskin wind and covered with a fine leather, it is necessary
that such wineskin empujeis towards me in the air with all your strength, and that I will throw
it often, and with a few days and this Diet Exercicio will see the effectiveness of my art. The
first day it was to drown Ogul, and believed that was about to breathe
the soul, the latter is less tired and slept most good: at last the
eight days regained all the strength, health, lightness, and good
humor of his most florid years.

Zadig said to him: Have you played at the ball, and you have not had enough: know that there
is no basilisk in the world, that a sober man and always makes Exercicio healthy lives, and
how imagined amalgamation is the art of gluttony with health as the Sorcerer's Stone, judicial
astrology, and theology of the Magi.

Knowing the quan Ogul first doctor of medicine was dangerous for such a man, collide with the
apothecary to send for guild basilisks to the other world: so that having been punished for their
good deeds always, was to die for having given health to a man gluttonous. Convidáronle to
a feast, where he ought to poison the second service, but still in the first, received a part
of the beautiful queen, and rose from the table, splitting without delay. He who is loved by a beautiful,
says the great Zoroaster, everything goes well in this world.

CHAPTER XIX.

The fair.

Received the Queen was in Babylon with that joy with which we always
welcome a princess beautiful and unhappy.

Babylon then still seemed something more: the prince had Hircania
killed in battle, and the Babylonians declared winners would marry
Astarte with which he was elected by the sovereign.

But they did not want first place in the world, was the husband of
Astarte and King of Babylon, hanging in tangles and parties, and swore
King recognized by the bravest and discreet.

They raised a few miles from the city a vast palisade fencing arenas beautifully decorated,
the maintainers will have to submit armed to the nines, and he drew each a separate room where
no I could not see or speak to anyone. It had to run four spears, and those who had the said
Beating four horsemen, had then to fight each other: so that the rearward by those who stay
the camp was declared the winner of the tournament. Four days later he back with the same weapons,
and hit the riddles proposed the magicians, and if not the successful, there was to be king,
but they were to return to running spears until they give a man to come out with victory in both
tests, because they were determined not to recognize king to whom it was not the bravest and
most discreet. In all this time were allowed to the Queen communicate with anyone, only gave
him license to attend games to cover a veil, but was not consented to talk with any of the suitors,
because there were no injustice or valimiento.

This notice was her lover Astarte, waiting for her proven more valuable and discretion anyone.
Zadig departed, praying to Venus to strengthen his spirit and enlighten his understanding, and reached
the banks of the Euphrates on the eve of the solemn day. He then lay his nickname among those
of the other combatants, concealing his name and face, as the law required, and came to rest in the
room which he had fitted eu luck. His friend was back Cador in Babylon, having searched in Egypt,
he sent his quarto take full plate sent to him by the Queen, and
also with her more lush horse of Persia.

Well Zadig saw These gifts are hand of Astarte, and acquired new vigor, new hopes and her love
and his boldness.

The next day the Queen sat Baxo a canopy adorned with precious stones, and full and auditoriums
of all women and people of all states of Babylon, see dexáron maintainers in the circus. Set each
his nickname at the feet of the high magician sorteáronse, and Zadig was the last. The first
a man presented himself very wealthy, called Itobad so full of vanity as lacking in courage, skill,
and understanding. Persuaded Habíanle his servants to a man as he was to be king, and he had answered
them: A man as I should reign.

Habíanle as armed from head to foot, wearing a gold nail guns green, a green plume, and the
spear hung with green ribbons. On the way to govern Itobad his horse, threw himself upon seeing
that he had not intended the scepter of Babylon to a man like he the sky. The first knight
that ran throws made him lose his temper, and the second pulled him by the legs of the horse
to the ground, legs up, and open arms. Again Itobad to ride, but doing so sad figure, the whole
amphitheater burst out laughing. No deigned to touch the third with Lance; but he passed to him
grabbed his right leg, and they should give him half-back, threw him down on the sand, the squires
of Games went to lift laughing: the quarto fighter takes him by the left leg and throws the other
side. Conduxéronle a thousand insults to his apartment, where according to law had to spend that
night and he said, scarcely able to wiggle: What an adventure for a man like me!

Best discharging their obligation to the other champions, there were some who beat two fighters,
and a few up to three. Only four vanquished Otama prince. The little gray rearward Zadig,
and far removed from the stirrups Donayre to four riders one after another, with this started
the fight between Zadig and Otama. This was bringing arms in blue and gold with a tuft of the
same; Zadig those were white. The mood of the attendees were divided between the knight blue
and white: the queen to her heart pounding, making passionate pleas to the ring by white.

Champions gave both repeated twists and turns so lightly, and dodged asentáronse such boats with spears,
and remained so strong in his stirrups, that all but the Queen, wished to have two kings in Babylon.
Tired and horses, and broken spears, Zadig used this trick: passes behind the prince, rushes
to the rump of his horse, it takes for half of the body, it breaks down on the ground, mounted
on the empty chair, and begins to spinning around Otama lying on the ground. Crying all the
amphitheater: Victory the white knight. Upgrades Otama enraged, drew his sword, gives a jump
horse Zadig the naked cutlass.

Both begin in the new arena and more dangerous battle triumphs now agility, strength now. Flying
in the wind wounded often hit the plumage of their helmets, the nails of their bracelets, the
mesh of their weapons. Sharp edge and are wound to left, right to the head, chest, retiranse, acométense,
move away, they hold back; dóblanse like snakes, lions embísterise as: every moment Salfa sparks
of blows stick. Zadig finally takes a breath, stopped, Otama dodges a blow, not given to roam,
it breaks down, disarm him, and exclaims Otama: White Knight, to you is because the throne of
Babylon. Was beside herself the queen of joy. Knight led the blue and white knight, to every
one to his room, as they had done with everyone else, provided that commanded the law. Silent
about the came to serve, and they brought them food. Well if it would be presumed the mute queen
who served to Zadig. Dexáronlos sleep alone until the next day by morning, Quando was the winner
had to take his nickname to the supreme magician, to be collated and to know.

Zadig was so tired he slept deeply, because love, but not sleep Itobad I was lying in the quarto
immediately: getting up at night and entered the Zadig, picked up his weapons and his nickname, and
set their own green in place of them. Hardly scratched dawn, when presented to the supreme magician
proud, declaring that a man as he was the winner. Nobody expected it, but was proclaimed while
Zadig was still sleeping. He turned Astarte stunned and desperate to Babylon. Almost everything
was empty amphitheater Zadig awoke Quando, and searching for weapons was found with the green
instead. Saw himself compelled to put on them, having nothing else to fall back on.


"There'll be war all along the river. Hamilton is hatchin' some new devil's trick with Girty.
Col. Zane, I calkilate that Girty has a spy in the river settlements and knows as much about
the forts and defense as you do."

"You can't mean a white spy."

"Yes, just that."

"That is a strong assertion, Lewis, but coming from you it means something. Step aside here
and explain yourself," said Col. Zane, getting up and walking out to the fence.

"I don't like the looks of things," said the hunter. "A month ago I ketched this man Miller
pokin' his nose round the block-house where he hadn't ought to be. And I kep' watchin' him.
If my suspicions is correct he's playin' some deep game. I ain't got any proof, but things
looks bad."

"That's strange, Lewis," said Col. Zane soberly. "Now that you mention it I remember Jonathan
said he met Miller near the Kanawha three weeks ago. That was when Crawford's expedition was
on the way to the Shawnee villages. The Colonel tried to enlist Miller, but Miller said he
was in a hurry to get back to the Fort. And he hasn't come back yet."

"I ain't surprised. Now, Col. Zane, you are in command here. I'm not a soldier and for that
reason I'm all the better to watch Miller. He won't suspect me. You give me authority and I'll
round up his little game."

"By all means, Lewis. Go about it your own way, and report anything to me. Remember you may
be mistaken and give Miller the benefit of the doubt. I don't like the fellow. He has a way
of appearing and disappearing, and for no apparent reason, that makes me distrust him. But
for Heaven's sake, Lew, how would he profit by betraying us?"

"I don't know. All I know is he'll bear watchin'."

"My gracious, Lew Wetzel!" exclaimed Betty as her brother and the hunter rejoined the others.
"Have you come all the way over here without a gun? And you have on a new suit of buckskin."

Lewis stood a moment by Betty, gazing down at her with his slight smile. He looked exceedingly
well. His face was not yet bronzed by summer suns. His long black hair, of which he was as
proud as a woman could have been, and of which he took as much care as he did of his rifle,
waved over his shoulders.

"Betty, this is my birthday, but that ain't the reason I've got my fine feathers on. I'm goin'
to try and make an impression on you," replied Lewis, smiling.

"I declare, this is very sudden. But you have succeeded. Who made the suit? And where did you
get all that pretty fringe and those beautiful beads?"

"That stuff I picked up round an Injun camp. The suit I made myself."

"I think, Lewis, I must get you to help me make my new gown," said Betty, roguishly.

"Well, I must be getting' back," said Wetzel, rising.

"Oh, don't go yet. You have not talked to me at all," said Betty petulantly. She walked to
the gate with him.

"What can an Injun hunter say to amuse the belle of the border?"

"I don't want to be amused exactly. I mean I'm not used to being unnoticed, especially by you."
And then in a lower tone she continued: "What did you mean about Mr. Miller? I heard his name
and Eb looked worried. What did you tell him?"

"Never mind now, Betty. Maybe I'll tell you some day. It's enough for you to know the Colonel
don't like Miller and that I think he is a bad man. You don't care nothin' for Miller, do you
Betty?"

"Not in the least."

"Don't see him any more, Betty. Good-night, now, I must be goin' to supper."

"Lew, stop! or I shall run after you."

"And what good would your runnin' do?" said Lewis "You'd never ketch me. Why, I could give
you twenty paces start and beat you to yon tree."

"You can't. Come, try it," retorted Betty, catching hold of her skirt. She could never have
allowed a challenge like that to pass.

"Ha! ha! We are in for a race, Betty. if you beat him, start or no start, you will have accomplished
something never done before," said Col. Zane.

"Come, Silas, step off twenty paces and make them long ones," said Betty, who was in earnest.

"We'll make it forty paces," said Silas, as he commenced taking immense strides.

"What is Lewis looking at?" remarked Col. Zane's wife.

Wetzel, in taking his position for the race, had faced the river. Mrs. Zane had seen him start
suddenly, straighten up and for a moment stand like a statue. Her exclamation drew he attention
of the others to the hunter.

"Look!" he cried, waving his hand toward the river.

"I declare, Wetzel, you are always seeing something. Where shall I look? Ah, yes, there is
a dark form moving along the bank. By jove! I believe it's an Indian," said Col. Zane.

Jonathan darted into the house. When he reappeared second later he had three rifles.

"I see horses, Lew. What do you make out?" said Jonathan. "It's a bold manoeuvre for Indians
unless they have a strong force."

"Hostile Injuns wouldn't show themselves like that. Maybe they ain't redskins at all. We'll
go down to the bluff."

"Oh, yes, let us go," cried Betty, walking down the path toward Wetzel.

Col. Zane followed her, and presently the whole party were on their way to the river. When
they reached the bluff they saw two horses come down the opposite bank and enter the water.
Then they seemed to fade from view. The tall trees cast a dark shadow over the water and the
horses had become lost in this obscurity. Col. Zane and Jonathan walked up and down the bank
seeking to find a place which afforded a clearer view of the river.

"There they come," shouted Silas.

"Yes, I see them just swimming out of the shadow," said Col. Zane. "Both horses have riders.
Lewis, what can you make out?"

"It's Isaac and an Indian girl," answered Wetzel.

This startling announcement created a commotion in the little group. It was followed by a chorus
of exclamations.

"Heavens! Wetzel, you have wonderful eyes. I hope to God you are right. There, I see the foremost
rider waving his hand," cried Col. Zane.

"Oh, Bessie, Bessie! I believe Lew is right. Look at Tige," said Betty excitedly.

Everybody had forgotten the dog. He had come down the path with Betty and had pressed close
to her. First he trembled, then whined, then with a loud bark he ran down the bank and dashed
into the water.

"Hel-lo, Betts," came the cry across the water. There was no mistaking that clear voice. It
was Isaac's.

Although the sun had long gone down behind the hills daylight lingered. It was bright enough
for the watchers to recognize Isaac Zane. He sat high on his horse and in his hand he held
the bridle of a pony that was swimming beside him. The pony bore the slender figure of a girl.
She was bending forward and her hands were twisted in the pony's mane.

By this time the Colonel and Jonathan were standing in the shallow water waiting to grasp the
reins and lead the horses up the steep bank. Attracted by the unusual sight of a wildly gesticulating
group on the river bluff, the settlers from the Fort hurried down to the scene of action. Capt.
Boggs and Alfred Clarke joined the crowd. Old Sam came running down from the barn. All were
intensely excited and Col. Zane and Jonathan reached for the bridles and led the horses up
the slippery incline.

"Eb, Jack, Silas, here I am alive and well," cried Isaac as he leaped from his horse. "Betty,
you darling, it's Isaac. Don't stand staring as if I were a ghost."

Whereupon Betty ran to him, flung her arms around his neck and clung to him. Isaac kissed her
tenderly and disengaged himself from her arms.

"You'll get all wet. Glad to see me? Well, I never had such a happy moment in my life. Betty,
I have brought you home one whom you must love. This is Myeerah, your sister. She is wet and
cold. Take her home and make her warm and comfortable. You must forget all the past, for Myeerah
has saved me from the stake."

Betty had forgotten the other. At her brother's words she turned and saw a slender form. Even
the wet, mud-stained and ragged Indian costume failed to hide the grace of that figure. She
saw a beautiful face, as white as her own, and dark eyes full of unshed tears.

"The Eagle is free," said the Indian girl in her low, musical voice.

"You have brought him home to us. Come," said Betty taking the hand of the trembling maiden.

The settlers crowded round Isaac and greeted him warmly while they plied him with innumerable
questions. Was he free? Who was the Indian girl? Had he run off with her? Were the Indians
preparing for war?

On the way to the Colonel's house Isaac told briefly of his escape from the Wyandots, of his
capture by Cornplanter, and of his rescue. He also mentioned the preparations for war he had
seen in Cornplanter's camp, and Girty's story of Col. Crawford's death.

"How does it come that you have the Indian girl with you?" asked Col. Zane as they left the
curious settlers and entered the house.

"I am going to marry Myeerah and I brought her with me for that purpose. When we are married
I will go back to the Wyandots and live with them until peace is declared."

"Humph! Will it be declared?"

"Myeerah has promised it, and I believe she can bring it about, especially if I marry her.
Peace with the Hurons may help to bring about peace with the Shawnees. I shall never cease
to work for that end; but even if peace cannot be secured, my duty still is to Myeerah. She
saved me from a most horrible death."

"If your marriage with this Indian girl will secure the friendly offices of that grim old warrior
Tarhe, it is far more than fighting will ever do. I do not want you to go back. Would we ever
see you again?"

"Oh, yes, often I hope. You see, if I marry Myeerah the Hurons will allow me every liberty."

"Well, that puts a different light on the subject."

"Oh, how I wish you and Jonathan could have seen Thundercloud and his two hundred warriors
ride into Cornplanter's camp. It was magnificent! The braves were all crowded near the stake
where I was bound. The fire had been lighted. Suddenly the silence was shattered by an awful
yell. It was Thundercloud's yell. I knew it because I had heard it before, and anyone who had
once heard that yell could never forget it. In what seemed an incredibly short time Thundercloud's
warriors were lined up in the middle of the camp. The surprise was so complete that, had it
been necessary, they could have ridden Cornplanter's braves down, killed many, routed the others,
and burned the village. Cornplanter will not get over that surprise in many a moon."

Betty had always hated the very mention of the Indian girl who had been the cause of her brother's
long absence from home. But she was so happy in the knowledge of his return that she felt that
it was in her power to forgive much; more over, the white, weary face of the Indian maiden
touched Betty's warm heart. With her quick intuition she had divined that this was even a greater
trial for Myeerah. Undoubtedly the Indian girl feared the scorn of her lover's people. She
showed it in her trembling hands, in her fearful glances.

Finding that Myeerah could speak and understand English, Betty became more interested in her
charge every moment. She set about to make Myeerah comfortable, and while she removed the wet
and stained garments she talked all the time. She told her how happy she was that Isaac was
alive and well. She said Myeerah's heroism in saving him should atone for all the past, and
that Isaac's family would welcome her in his home.

Gradually Myeerah's agitation subsided under Betty's sweet graciousness, and by the time Betty
had dressed her in a white gown, had brushed the dark hair and added a bright ribbon to the
simple toilet, Myeerah had so far forgotten her fears as to take a shy pleasure in the picture
of herself in the mirror. As for Betty, she gave vent to a little cry of delight. "Oh, you
are perfectly lovely," cried Betty. "In that gown no one would know you as a Wyandot princess."

"Myeerah's mother was a white woman."

"I have heard your story, Myeerah, and it is wonderful. You must tell me all about your life
with the Indians. You speak my language almost as well as I do. Who taught you?"

"Myeerah learned to talk with the White Eagle. She can speak French with the Coureurs-des-bois."

"That's more than I can do, Myeerah. And I had French teacher," said Betty, laughing.

"Hello, up there," came Isaac's voice from below.

"Come up, Isaac," called Betty.

"Is this my Indian sweetheart?" exclaimed Isaac, stopping at the door. "Betty, isn't she--"

"Yes," answered Betty, "she is simply beautiful."

"Come, Myeerah, we must go down to supper," said Isaac, taking her in his arms and kissing
her. "Now you must not be afraid, nor mind being looked at."

"Everyone will be kind to you," said Betty, taking her hand. Myeerah had slipped from Isaac's
arm and hesitated and hung back. "Come," continued Betty, "I will stay with you, and you need
not talk if you do not wish."

Thus reassured Myeerah allowed Betty to lead her down stairs. Isaac had gone ahead and was
waiting at the door.

The big room was brilliantly lighted with pine knots. Mrs. Zane was arranging the dishes on
the table. Old Sam and Annie were hurrying to and fro from the kitchen. Col. Zane had just
come up the cellar stairs carrying a mouldy looking cask. From its appearance it might have
been a powder keg, but the merry twinkle in the Colonel's eyes showed that the cask contained
something as precious, perhaps, as powder, but not quite so dangerous. It was a cask of wine
over thirty years old. With Col. Zane's other effects it had stood the test of the long wagon-train
journey over the Virginia mountains, and of the raft-ride down the Ohio. Col. Zane thought
the feast he had arranged for Isaac would be a fitting occasion for the breaking of the cask.

Major McCullough, Capt. Boggs and Hugh Bennet had been invited. Wetzel had been persuaded to
come. Betty's friends Lydia and Alice were there.

As Isaac, with an air of pride, led the two girls into the room Old Sam saw them and he exclaimed,
"For de Lawd's sakes, Marsh Zane, dar's two pippins, sure can't tell 'em from one anudder."

Betty and Myeerah did resemble each other. They were of about the same size, tall and slender.
Betty was rosy, bright-eyed and smiling; Myeerah was pale one moment and red the next.

"Friends, this is Myeerah, the daughter of Tarhe," said Isaac simply. "We are to be married
to-morrow."

"Oh, why did you not tell me?" asked Betty in great surprise. "She said nothing about it."

"You see Myeerah has that most excellent trait in a woman--knowing when to keep silent," answered
Isaac with a smile.

The door opened at this moment, admitting Will Martin and Alfred Clarke.

"Everybody is here now, Bessie, and I guess we may as well sit down to supper," said Col. Zane.
"And, good friends, let me say that this is an occasion for rejoicing. It is not so much a
marriage that I mean. That we might have any day if Lydia or Betty would show some of the alacrity
which got a good husband for Alice. Isaac is a free man and we expect his marriage will bring
about peace with a powerful tribe of Indians. To us, and particularly to you, young people,
that is a matter of great importance. The friendship of the Hurons cannot but exert an influence
on other tribes. I, myself, may live to see the day that my dream shall be realized--peaceful
and friendly relations with the Indians, the freedom of the soil, well-tilled farms and growing
settlements, and at last, the opening of this glorious country to the world. Therefore, let
us rejoice; let every one be happy; let your gayest laugh ring out, and tell your best story."

Betty had blushed painfully at the entrance of Alfred and again at the Colonel's remark. To
add to her embarrassment she found herself seated opposite Alfred at the table. This was the
first time he had been near her since the Sunday at the meeting-house, and the incident had
a singular effect on Betty. She found herself possessed, all at once, of an unaccountable shyness,
and she could not lift her eyes from her plate. But at length she managed to steal a glance
at Alfred. She failed to see any signs in his beaming face of the broken spirit of which her
brother had hinted. He looked very well indeed. He was eating his dinner like any other healthy
man, and talking and laughing with Lydia. This developed another unaccountable feeling in Betty,
but this time it was resentment. Who ever heard of a man, who was as much in love as his letter
said, looking well and enjoying himself with any other than the object of his affections? He
had got over it, that was all. Just then Alfred turned and gazed full into Betty's eyes. She
lowered them instantly, but not so quickly that she failed to see in his a reproach.

"You are going to stay with us a while, are you not?" asked Betty of Isaac.

"No, Betts, not more than a day or so. Now, do not look so distressed. I do not go back as
a prisoner. Myeerah and I can often come and visit you. But just now I want to get back and
try to prevent the Delawares from urging Tarhe to war."

"Isaac, I believe you are doing the wisest thing possible," said Capt. Boggs. "And when I look
at your bride-to-be I confess I do not see how you remained single so long."

"That's so, Captain," answered Isaac. "But you see, I have never been satisfied or contented
in captivity, I wanted nothing but to be free."

"In other words, you were blind," remarked Alfred, smiling at Isaac.

"Yes, Alfred, was. And I imagine had you been in my place you would have discovered the beauty
and virtue of my Princess long before I did. Nevertheless, please do not favor Myeerah with
so many admiring glances. She is not used to it. And that reminds me that I must expect trouble
tomorrow. All you fellows will want to kiss her."

"And Betty is going to be maid of honor. She, too, will have her troubles," remarked Col. Zane.

"Think of that, Alfred," said Isaac "A chance to kiss the two prettiest girls on the border--a
chance of a lifetime."

"It is customary, is it not?" said Alfred coolly.

"Yes, it's a custom, if you can catch the girl," answered Col. Zane.

Betty's face flushed at Alfred's cool assumption. How dared he? In spite of her will she could
not resist the power that compelled her to look at him. As plainly as if it were written there,
she saw in his steady blue eyes the light of a memory--the memory of a kiss. And Betty dropped
her head, her face burning, her heart on fire with shame, and love, and regret.

"It'll be a good chance for me, too," said Wetzel. His remark instantly turned attention to
himself.

"The idea is absurd," said Isaac. "Why, Lew Wetzel, you could not be made to kiss any girl."

"I would not be backward about it," said Col. Zane.

"You have forgotten the fuss you made when the boys were kissing me," said Mrs. Zane with a
fine scorn.

"My dear," said Col. Zane, in an aggrieved tone, "I did not make so much of a fuss, as you
call it, until they had kissed you a great many times more than was reasonable."

"Isaac, tell us one thing more," said Capt. Boggs. "How did Myeerah learn of your capture by
Cornplanter? Surely she could not have trailed you?"

"Will you tell us?" said Isaac to Myeerah.

"A bird sang it to me," answered Myeerah.

"She will never tell, that is certain," said Isaac. "And for that reason I believe Simon Girty
got word to her that I was in the hands of Cornplanter. At the last moment when the Indians
were lashing me to the stake Girty came to me and said he must have been too late."

"Yes, Girty might have done that," said Col. Zane. "I suppose, though he dared not interfere
in behalf of poor Crawford."

"Isaac, Can you get Myeerah to talk? I love to hear her speak," said Betty, in an aside.

"Myeerah, will you sing a Huron love-song?" said Isaac "Or, if you do not wish to sing, tell
a story. I want them to know how well you can speak our language."

"What shall Myeerah say?" she said, shyly.

"Tell them the legend of the Standing Stone."

"A beautiful Indian girl once dwelt in the pine forests," began Myeerah, with her eyes cast
down and her hand seeking Isaac's. "Her voice was like rippling waters, her beauty like the
rising sun. From near and from far came warriors to see the fair face of this maiden. She smiled
on them all and they called her Smiling Moon. Now there lived on the Great Lake a Wyandot chief.
He was young and bold. No warrior was as great as Tarhe. Smiling Moon cast a spell on his heart.
He came many times to woo her and make her his wife. But Smiling Moon said: 'Go, do great deeds,
an come again.'

"Tarhe searched the east and the west. He brought her strange gifts from strange lands. She
said: 'Go and slay my enemies.' Tarhe went forth in his war paint and killed the braves who
named her Smiling Moon. He came again to her and she said: 'Run swifter than the deer, be more
cunning than the beaver, dive deeper than the loon.'

"Tarhe passed once more to the island where dwelt Smiling Moon. The ice was thick, the snow
was deep. Smiling Moon turned not from her warm fire as she said: 'The chief is a great warrior,
but Smiling Moon is not easily won. It is cold. Change winter into summer and then Smiling
Moon will love him.'

"Tarhe cried in a loud voice to the Great Spirit: 'Make me a master.'

"A voice out of the forest answered: 'Tarhe, great warrior, wise chief, waste not thy time,
go back to thy wigwam.'

"Tarhe unheeding cried 'Tarhe wins or dies. Make him a master so that he may drive the ice
northward.'

"Stormed the wild tempest; thundered the rivers of ice; chill blew the north wind, the cold
northwest wind, against the mild south wind; snow-spirits and hail-spirits fled before the
warm raindrops; the white mountains melted, and lo! it was summer.

"On the mountain top Tarhe waited for his bride. Never wearying, ever faithful he watched many
years. There he turned to stone. There he stands to-day, the Standing Stone of ages. And Smiling
Moon, changed by the Great Spirit into the Night Wind, forever wails her lament at dusk through
the forest trees, and moans over the mountain tops."

Myeerah's story elicited cheers and praises from all. She was entreated to tell another, but
smilingly shook her head. Now that her shyness had worn off to some extent she took great interest
in the jest and the general conversation.

Col. Zane's fine old wine flowed like water. The custom was to fill a guest's cup as soon as
it was empty. Drinking much was rather encouraged than otherwise. But Col. Zane never allowed
this custom to go too far in his house.

"Friends, the hour grows late," he said. "To-morrow, after the great event, we shall have games,
shooting matches, running races, and contests of all kinds. Capt. Boggs and I have arranged
to give prizes, and I expect the girls can give something to lend a zest to the competition."

"Will the girls have a chance in these races?" asked Isaac. "If so, I should like to see Betty
and Myeerah run."

"Betty can outrun any woman, red or white, on the border," said Wetzel. "And she could make
some of the men run their level best."

"Well, perhaps we shall give her one opportunity to-morrow," observed the Colonel. "She used
to be good at running but it seems to me that of late she has taken to books and--"

"Oh, Eb! that is untrue," interrupted Betty.

Col. Zane laughed and patted his sister's cheek. "Never mind, Betty," and then, rising, he
continued, "Now let us drink to the bride and groom-to-be. Capt. Boggs, I call on you."

"We drink to the bride's fair beauty; we drink to the groom's good luck," said Capt. Boggs,
raising his cup.

"Do not forget the maid-of-honor," said Isaac.

"Yes, and the maid-of-honor. Mr. Clarke, will you say something appropriate?" asked Col. Zane.

Rising, Clarke said: "I would be glad to speak fittingly on this occasion, but I do not think
I can do it justice. I believe as Col. Zane does, that this Indian Princess is the first link
in that chain of peace which will some day unite the red men and the white men. Instead of
the White Crane she should be called the White Dove. Gentlemen, rise and drink to her long
life and happiness."

The toast was drunk. Then Clarke refilled his cup and holding it high over his head he looked
at Betty.

"Gentlemen, to the maid-of-honor. Miss Zane, your health, your happiness, in this good old wine."

"I thank you," murmured Betty with downcast eyes. "I bid you all good-night. Come, Myeerah."

Once more alone with Betty, the Indian girl turned to her with eyes like twin stars.

"My sister has made me very happy," whispered Myeerah in her soft, low voice. "Myeerah's heart
is full."

"I believe you are happy, for I know you love Isaac dearly."

"Myeerah has always loved him. She will love his sister."

"And I will love you," said Betty. "I will love you because you have saved him. Ah! Myeerah,
yours has been wonderful, wonderful love."

"My sister is loved," whispered Myeerah. "Myeerah saw the look in the eyes of the great hunter.
It was the sad light of the moon on the water. He loves you. And the other looked at my sister
with eyes like the blue of northern skies. He, too, loves you."

"Hush!" whispered Betty, trembling and hiding her face. "Hush! Myeerah, do not speak of him."

CHAPTER XI.

He following afternoon the sun shone fair and warm; the sweet smell of the tan-bark pervaded
the air and the birds sang their gladsome songs. The scene before the grim battle-scarred old
fort was not without its picturesqueness. The low vine-covered cabins on the hill side looked
more like picture houses than like real habitations of men; the mill with its burned-out roof--a
reminder of the Indians--and its great wheel, now silent and still, might have been from its
lonely and dilapidated appearance a hundred years old. Opium develops more particularly the nervous system activity life of relation,
while the sulfur stimulates the action of the blood circulatory system and venous.

The direct action of sulfur on this system is excitants, but in the Dyscrasic, the excitement is fixed
at some body whose testura is impaired, or at least more particularly affected, and fatigue that
develops in the body darkens from time to time by the excitement local tends to be generalized, resulting
in recrudescence, or fluxionarios febrile movements, neuralgias intermittently.

Sulphur corresponds by its elected and irritative action on the blood capillary system and venous,
the herpetic skin, mucous, lymph and parenchyma, and this indication is found even better: 1. º by
alternative action inside out, or the exterior to interior, ie the skin to the mucous membranes
and other organs and vice-versa, 2. º by their direct influence on bodies provided blood capillaries,
or what is, in all organs, excepting bone and fibrous tissue, on which, in effect, its action
is zero or very bit steep, 3. º cutaneous manifestations pose a severe and even diathesis chronic
herpetic analogous to their vesicles, their seeds, their itch, its rubicundeces and its various
eruptions always accompanied by symptoms of irritation blood.

All this gives the character of sulfur medication for excellence of herpetic diathesis and Herpes,
both in its various forms, such as its existence in potentia or latent, and transformations
more remote, so that rarely is the disease whose treatment sulfur does not provide its powerful
aid, and as a medicine that suits the symptoms of these diseases because antiherpes considered.

To
present the picture of the core symptoms of sulfur, it would need
to reproduce that characterize a host of chronic diseases are therefore
numerous and represent asthmatic conditions, tisiformes, flegmorrágicas,
hemotóicas, hemorrhagic mucosal nerve lymphatic, scrofulous, vein,
organ damage, skin diseases, cachexia, fevers; but all have the character
sobreescitacion irritable due to the arterial capillaries and veins,
with the majority, if not all, undergoes recrudescence fever, and
even when set in the venous or lymphatic system, no pain, redness,
local erethism least.

Scrofulous infarctions not correspond as well to this medication, if not present these characters
and even ulceration, in short, pure affections of bones, ligaments and soft tissues correspond
to his sphere of action, provided there erethism chronic inflammation, and when blood pressure
is stretched to the lymphatic capillaries or venous.

To avoid duplication, fill in the details relating to the physiological action sulfur therapeutic
effects.

§ III .-- therapeutic effects.

= A. = febrile illness .-- The curative effects of sulfur on febrile diseases analogous to their physiological
effects.

These conditions depend forever because of an organic lesion, of a herpetic Fluxion, or a
rash, and a deterioration of liquids or solids which occurs in the
course of a fever essential.

In all these cases the fever is rather insidious intense.

Hectic fever or subacute Ereta this genre is generally sender ever intermittent always irregular
in its early stages, the cold is distressing, the patient very sensitive to the impression of the
exterior air, heat and dry acre. Sweat usually occurs at the time that sleep produces lassitude,
irritability and calm fiber. This quiet and this sweat is however, generally partial and unevenly
distributed at least. Sweat is acidic and sour, pungent odor. It also happens that both the
chills and heat and sweat exist simultaneously but in different parts of body. Nocturnal exacerbations
are uncomfortable heat and alternatives cold, heat and partial sweats. The heat is accompanied
by rubicundeces, especially in provided the face and parts of many nerves, sympathetic or in relation
to essential organs. The palms and soles of the feet are, under this view, parties that the cold,
heat and sweat expresses himself with more intensity, there is evidence that a deep and large
lesion irritability.

Sulfur is involved in any subacute fever when the patient suffers or has had some phlogosis
subacute neuralgia, a congestion, if only hemorrhoids, a rash, provided that such accidents occur
frequently in one form or another, or changing site, according to the seasons and the evolution
of life activity in different organs, the major physiological periods of existence, such as
when to crusts serpiginous, the adenitis ... of children, happen
dartros, ophthalmia ... a elderly, and when even later, laryngitis,
the hemicráneas ... replace the gastritis, hemorrhoids, leucorrhoea
... liver to heart attacks and catarrh of the bladder ..... In short,
if, for all ages, but in different seasons, appear fluxions, boils,
epistaxis, neurosis, erysipelas ...

Any fever, even severe rash or
not, that the eruptive period of decline or is stationary with a dryness
erethism and annihilate the forces of sick calls the use of sulfur,
which for safety may be alternated with aconite.

Given also sulfur in the course of a fever to excite the reaction or revive an eruption languishing
and to prevent the body's insensitivity to the action of drugs most appropriate, which occurs especially
in certain mucous or catarrhal fever subacute and those in which the nervous system has suffered
a violent attack that keeps you immersed in fatigue, as in the nerve and some eruptive fevers,
in these cases, therefore, Sulphur is suitable to moderate the violence of the eruption, especially
smallpox, the suppuration period, in which case the available sulfur the body to the action
of mercury. It has also been used as a preservative of measles, and its symptoms may certainly
contrarian this medication.

= B = Diseases of the bronchi of the lungs and pleura .-- Sulphur
is indicated in disorders of the lung and bronchus by many of its
symptoms.

In the pneumonia course not very sharp, keeps an average sulfur between the bryony and phosphorus.
Corresponds also by its action, when hepatisation and serous exudation and even plastic have come
to its peak and begin to lose the character of sharpness. The indication of sulfur requires
erethism, a trace of irritation that does not require blood phosphorus and which is insufficient
to bryony. Sulfur is much more useful when its action is aimed at cell and tissue to the capillary
network of parenchymal organs and tissues of Este surface, and the more altered this action the
more plastic and Scythian processus to the capillaries within the meaning of transformation organic
tend to resorption of the exudation and to the desinfartacion tissues.

It is also very useful in pleurisy, which presents the chills at the time that the fever seems to
park, and when the body begins to react on products of inflammation. In general, all spills in the
pleura, the peritoneum and other serous membranes, and fluids, and
pseudo-membranous, calling for a moment the use the sulfur before
acuity has disappeared, usually at the same time or before the sulfur
lime.

= C = Conditions flegmásicas, venous congestion .-- The special action of sulfur in hair sebaceous
mucosa in a medication he is very useful and often indicated in subacute phlogosis mucous
membrane irritation or erethism, these are, according to we have noted, the subacute or chronic bronchitis
exacerbation, mucous phthisis, vesical catarrh ... It is less effective in inflammations of the
cellular tissue and organs parenchymal, when local irritability and hyperemia arterial blood are
agglomerated capillaries and contiguous and continuous, which is excepted in the physiological
state necessary for this that the inflammation extended engine life, while retaining, however, of acuity
and irritability.

Sulfur, in order, you agree to all febrile affection and character flegmásica ERETES already
have a slow, or does not lead to an eruption frankly, to a Fluxion, or because when the affection
comes the period of suppuration of exudation or secretion, finish by induration or by flow of
pus, serous or spills abundant mucus, while retaining always in these cases some local or general
blood irritation.

According to the data that we sit, one can easily deduce that the sulfur is indicated: 1. No irritant
in chronic diarrhea and profound weakness - which can be filled dual with doses more or less
weak, - and in the lientería, especially in constipation hemorrhoidal urethritis in military drop
old or serous flow and pain, the thuja is very useful after sulfur;

2. º in all mucus and mucus-purulent, whatever you want the site;

3. º In many hypersecretion or altered or abnormal secretions, the etiology is obscure and unknown
cause, in the sweat of the feet and armpits, the greasy coating hair, palms of the hands or the
skin of the beard, and even oily secretion throughout the body, or simply local or general sweating
with increased heat and stagnation;

4. º in the irritation of hemorrhoids, after nux vomica, and most of bleeding with ESRD, such as
hematuria, epistaxis ... and even the same menstruation excess or advance and also in the suppression
of it by sluggish anemic or scrofulous;

5. º The cephalic congestion, pulmonale, abdominal, liver ... When
hemorrhoids pars are the Mandans, in blood or irritable people.

= D = Cachexia .-- The herpetic diathesis plays in all directions on the sulfur and its or
changes in their secondary or tertiary periods, and when it is clear, visible, external, shaped damning
indicators or symptoms clearly.

These conditions are chronic, and his general condition deteriorated due to the perceived
dominance of the movement Eliminator on establishing the organs, which explanations include the
name of sulfur diathesis chlorotic, anemic, which is similar to sea
salt, in the scrofulous diathesis with all kind of conditions, such
as ophthalmia, mesenteric tabes, rickets, rashes, ulcers, diarrhea
and other mucus and pus, and all diathesis is observed in the following:
1.

No general wasting with ESRD and looseness with abundant mucous secretion mucus or pus, and sometimes
edema and serous effusions with dryness and Lampwork mucosal surfaces,
2.

No greater susceptibility to cold air and wind, and easy to getting a cold and rheumatic pains;
3. No rashes, red spots, glandular affections; 4. No appetite pronounced and insufficient
repair of the organic elements.

The sulfur is sufficient by itself to cure a condition that sometimes develop in these circumstances
with herpetic nature: for example, inflammation of the eye subirritativas whose parts all are
affected by deep and lasting action. But in ophthalmia, and in any affection of this kind, he frequently
alternates with aconite, chamomile, and administered before sulfur, calcium carbonate, silica
... but after insisting as appropriate in the medicine we try, and repeating the dose the more,
the longer the patient gave the first age.

Sulfur, in short, when used consistently and in doses appropriate to the age of the patient, temperament
and nature of the ailment that it is combat, produces cures in vain
be sought with many medications.

Not the most suitable drug sulfur to stimulate capillary system, improve nutrient movement and disposal
excite the constituent elements of the tissues and juices nutritious? Herein is the predominance
their influence on the heart and blood vessels, it can dispel stasis and venous and lymphatic inertia,
whenever the existence of serious organ damage is not contraindicated use and inspire well-founded fears
that extends and serious.

We have said, but the importance of the subject deserves to repeat
that changes in general very early in the course of drug treatment.

But back to our case, we indicate because the large number of chronic conditions, from cataracts
to decay to dutifully fill the exposition of which require the use of sulfur and its elective, as
the similarity of their effects with the ups. More removed only the enumeration of the most cardinal
and serve as type for the use of sulfur in others of the same gender.

= E. = nervous and neuralgic affections .-- neuro, neuralgia and paralysis own recognized by
sulfur causes herpetic dartrosa metastasis, an eruption aborted herpetic diathesis hereditary. Whenever
the background or existing symptoms lead the physician to make this
specific diagnosis, it is necessary to administer the sulfur more
drugs than particularly suitable: 1. º in chronic seizure disorders,
Pertussis in the Rebel, the hysteria and access epileptiform 2. º
in hypochondriasis, in various philosophical and religious mania in
the mental alienation, in consequence of false crisis of nerve fevers,
or of the excesses in the study, 3. º in chronic gout on all irregular,
with violent local erethism, redness and tension, or sluggish deep
sobreescitacion general or cerebral nerve 4. º rheumatic pains in
the head, teeth, members, in rheumatic diseases of the joints of the
viscera and membranes serous, 5. º in asthma and all asthmatic affection
6. º in neuro-asthenic and some cases of muscular atrophy, especially
in children.

Science now recognizes and clinic has long since have established the relations of all the affections
of this genre with rash and mucous herpes or secondary.

= F. = Skin conditions .-- If the rash is divided into three classes according chronic Part of
the integument that affect, or is the epidermis, the dermis and mucosal Malpighian body, sulfur
is indicated in all, it meets in its effects on the skin system of
all medications, and consist of softening, exfoliation or loss of
substance and the induration, granulation, hypertrophy, new formation.

Many drugs are not But his best auxiliaries, not only to prepare and tissue injuries to his action,
but also to complete or more specialized.

In the ordinary divisions of skin conditions, corresponds to sulfur forms vesicular and papular,
rashes, or scabies psoric, miliary or crusts in red spots, liver and furfuraceous, when these conditions
are unpleasant itching, heat after scratching. This itching burning, if only, more violent night
and in bed that day, also calls for sulfur.

Among the peculiarities of the effects of sulfur stand some that make it useful: in miliary and urticaria,
affecting completely to a member with itching and abrasions; in herpetic crusts on an inflammatory
base, itching and hot, or that open easily, in dry eruptions of the head and scalp, in the cradle cap
Creeping, epidermal abrasions on the palms of the hands in pityriasis alopecia; in furfuraceous
with herpes blisters on the nipple cracks after Arnica, whether or not erythematous halo, and
which also plays the graphite in the intertrigo, in inflamed chilblains in the redness of the
nose and other cutaneous blood stasis Itching and heat in the ulcers
with serous bloody pus, in the toes or cloth, obstruction of sebaceous
follicles in accumulating a material whose swelling caseiforme Acne
occurs graphite itself, in cases of scabies transformed with large
or long-standing pruritus, when the vesicles appear everywhere except
in the hands, which are stations and given functional regions, which
often ulcerate, crust over and are compounded by sanious boils; in
whitlow and other inflammations also erysipelatous that play often
and alternate with styes, irritation in the larynx, sore rheumatic.

Here, then, the drug that has been regarded as a panacea and a balm: nswers are indications,
that feeling we have reduced to as short extent. Aliéntanos the idea of ​​having assisted the reader
to determine their elective and their properties and have put in a position to take advantage
of its pathogenesis and analysis of its effects clinical.

= Dose .=-- The observations we made on the dose and now have an explanation particular. In
general there are enough reasons to choose in preference satisfactory by small or large. It
is therefore logical and natural to have recourse to both doses weaker as the drug is most appropriate,
since the reaction tends to excite curative in the sense of morbid synergies. The stronger doses
should be reserved for Where indications are less precise, but rather
based on a set of phenomena Dyscrasic or rational, that as a synthetic
expression of the morbid state, does not exactly match special symptoms
to able to characterize the diagnosis of disease and medicine.

The action, therefore, sulfur, characterized in the phenomena erethism its field force, would
determine especially if organic lesion coexists internal increased irritability insidious, deadly
for the same, whether in these circumstances not be administered at doses weaker. There is
the same danger in the states diathesis without internal organic lesion, and only agreed to
fund the herpetic affection, whether intended to stimulate the blood system, dissipate the
inertia and awaken some manifestation herpetic.

The first three crushing and sulfur dye, made according to the precepts of the Hahnemannian pharmacopoeia
are sufficient dose for many conditions terns, such as dartros, ulcers, chronic erythematous
irritation, and in the same scabies, were administered 2 or 3 decigrammes the first to the third crushing,
three or four doses a day, or else from 2 to 20 drops of tincture of fractions in the same way.
Exterior applications, even scabies should not ever go to these amounts, and ointment to two
parts of the dye or the first shredding for fifteen butter and lotions with two parts the stain
for ten or fifteen of pure water. These lotions repeated three or four times day, are perhaps the best
way to treat scabies, giving the interior dose as those was just appointed, and continuing
treatment for a dozen days.

We are aware that You can delete a mangy eruption in less time, but the EXPERIENCE proves that these
deletions are not ordinarily true healing. It may, finally, sprinkle advantageously sordid ulcers,
varicose veins and certain skin lesions, exudates, with the second or third crushing.

The internal organic disease of the lungs, liver, ..., with hectic
fever, require dose but weak enough blood to the thirty-some attenuation,
and is not usually what better and have not been repeated many days
and even weeks at times, because the action Sulfur is also quite extended
in these cases to allow any other drug insert during the time of his
action.

The body sometimes dangerously excites the strong influence of dose, and injuries such as lung,
for example, may be aggravated insidiously, whereas weak calms irritability and fever, acting
favorably altered tissue. The mean dose of the sixth to the thirtieth attenuation are preferable
in cases where less irritability, and skin diseases, injuries terns, scrofula, etc..

Even insisting on this issue, we will say no more required medication adapt well their gender doses
of illness, his strength and temperament of the patient: all dosage scale degrees are required for sulfur,
and all have their chance. Dose should be used only miasmatic, if we express it, not to touch
the body and lead to frequent aggravations. Sulfur, in short, is more related to a large number
of diseases and medications and antidotes that have more numerous, being so he Many turn to
drugs. We conclude with abuse indicate that some water is made mercury sulfide as an antidote
in cases of syphilis treated by large doses of it it would be more rational to be limited to sufficient
doses, but no excesses and harmful.

Acidum sulphuris (sulfuric acid).

§ I. - History.

Sulfuric acid is a drug after having been used extensively in the past, as evidenced by the work
and Delens Merat [25] and the observations of Dipper, Sydenham, Haller, etc., is now relegated
to the mineral lemonade advocated against lead colic. Addition exterior use of it was done in
the treatment of atonic ulcers of the dartros; apart from its application in gargles and injections
in the thrush and mouth ulcers, certain angina, aphthous irritation of the vulva and vagina,
was prescribed in the form of elixir, Rabel water, etc., against a large number of acute and
chronic illnesses such as fevers inflammatory, intermittent rashes, malignant, putrid in different
periods and be given, In short, the nickname of antiseptic. He also used against pneumonia, phthisis,
the colliquative sweats, passive hemorrhages, scurvy, purpura hemorrhagic dropsy, delirium drunks
tremens, epilepsy, chorea, and other mucus diarrhea, rheumatism,
arthritis, syphilis, scrofula ... This was very likely to sulfuric
acid, and distrust observers more rigid or more illustrations contributed
a lot to the abandonment of a drug that should find many times ineffective.

The

counter-stimulated that they want the sulfuric acid is a hipostenizante vascular forget their
special symptoms, and admit that the disease manifested in the effective hipostenizante in
nature, from epilepsy to scurvy, without distinguishing stages of the disease. It's funny to
see that suddenly are obtained by the high dose, when there is tolerance medicinal sedative effects really
é hipostenizantes without the body pass, at least substantially, by the primary excitation
belongs to the almost universality of the drugs, these effects also fit, but by chance and specialties
of their action, to a number of diseases which are undoubtedly hiposténico character, ie own
sulfuric acid.
 If you escape the massacre you will beg
on your knees to me. This settlement is doomed. Now, go to your white-faced lover. You'll find
him cold. Ha! Ha! Ha!" and with a taunting laugh he leaped the fence and disappeared in the gloom.

Betty sank to the floor stunned, horrified. She shuddered at the malignity expressed in Miller's
words. How had she ever been deceived in him? He was in league with Girty. At heart he was
a savage, a renegade. Betty went over his words, one by one.

"Your white-faced lover. You will find him cold," whispered Betty. "What did he mean?"

Then came the thought. Miller had murdered Clarke. Betty gave one agonized quiver, as if a
knife had been thrust into her side, and then her paralyzed limbs recovered the power of action.
She flew out into the passage-way and pounded on her brother's door.

"Eb! Eb! Get up! Quickly, for God's sake!" she cried. A smothered exclamation, a woman's quick
voice, the heavy thud of feet striking the floor followed Betty's alarm. Then the door opened.

"Hello, Betts, what's up?" said Col. Zane, in his rapid voice.

At the same moment the door at the end of the hall opened and Isaac came out.

"Eb, Betty, I heard voices out doors and in the house. What's the row?"

"Oh, Isaac! Oh, Eb! Something terrible has happened!" cried Betty, breathlessly.

"Then it is no time to get excited," said the Colonel, calmly. He placed his arm round Betty
and drew her into the room. "Isaac, get down the rifles. Now, Betty, time is precious. Tell
me quickly, briefly."

"I was awakened by a stone rolling on the floor. I ran to the window and saw a man by the fence.
He came under my window and I saw it was Miller. He said he was going to join Girty. He said
if I would go with him he would save the lives of all my relatives. If I would not they would
all be killed, massacred, burned alive, and I would be taken away as his captive. I told him
I'd rather die before I'd go with him. Then he said we were all doomed, and that my white-faced
lover was already cold. With that he gave a laugh which made my flesh creep and ran on toward
the river. Oh! he has murdered Mr. Clarke."

"Hell! What a fiend!" cried Col. Zane, hurriedly getting into his clothes. "Betts, you had
a gun in there. Why didn't you shoot him? Why didn't I pay more attention to Wetzel's advice?"

"You should have allowed Clarke to kill him yesterday," said Isaac. "Like as not he'll have
Girty here with a lot of howling devils. What's to be done?"

"I'll send Wetzel after him and that'll soon wind up his ball of yarn," answered Col. Zane.

"Please--go--and find--if Mr. Clarke--"

"Yes, Betty, I'll go at once. You must not lose courage, Betty. It's quite probable that Miller
has killed Alfred and that there's worse to follow."

"I'll come, Eb, as soon as I have told Myeerah. She is scared half to death," said Isaac, starting
for the door.

"All right, only hurry," said Col. Zane, grabbing his rifle. Without wasting more words, and
lacing up his hunting shirt as he went he ran out of the room.

The first rays of dawn came streaking in at the window. The chill gray light brought no cheer
with its herald of the birth of another day. For what might the morning sun disclose? It might
shine on a long line of painted Indians. The fresh breeze from over the river might bring the
long war whoop of the savage.

No wonder Noah and his brother, awakened by the voice of their father, sat up in their little
bed and looked about with frightened eyes. No wonder Mrs. Zane's face blanched. How many times
she had seen her husband grasp his rifle and run out to meet danger!

"Bessie," said Betty. "If it's true I will not be able to bear it. It's all my fault."

"Nonsense! You heard Eb say Miller and Clarke had quarreled before. They hated each other before
they ever saw you."

A door banged, quick footsteps sounded on the stairs, and Isaac came rushing into the room.
Betty, deathly pale, stood with her hands pressed to her bosom, and looked at Isaac with a
question in her eyes that her tongue could not speak.

"Betty, Alfred's badly hurt, but he's alive. I can tell you no more now," said Isaac. "Bessie,
bring your needle, silk linen, liniment--everything you need for a bad knife wound, and come
quickly."

Betty's haggard face changed as if some warm light had been reflected on it; her lips moved,
and with a sob of thankfulness she fled to her room.

Two hours later, while Annie was serving breakfast to Betty and Myeerah, Col. Zane strode into
the room.

"Well, one has to eat whatever happens," he said, his clouded face brightening somewhat. "Betty,
there's been bad work, bad work. When I got to Clarke's room I found him lying on the bed with
a knife sticking in him. As it is we are doubtful about pulling him through."

"May I see him?" whispered Betty, with pale lips.

"If the worst comes to the worst I'll take you over. But it would do no good now and would
surely unnerve you. He still has a fighting chance."

"Did they fight, or was Mr. Clarke stabbed in his sleep?"

"Miller climbed into Clarke's window and knifed him in the dark. As I came over I met Wetzel
and told him I wanted him to trail Miller and find if there is any truth in his threat about
Girty and the Indians. Sam just now found Tige tied fast in the fence corner back of the barn.
That explains the mystery of Miller's getting so near the house. You know he always took pains
to make friends with Tige. The poor dog was helpless; his legs were tied and his jaws bound
fast. Oh, Miller is as cunning as an Indian! He has had this all planned out, and he has had
more than one arrow to his bow. But, if I mistake not he has shot his last one."

"Miller must be safe from pursuit by this time," said Betty.

"Safe for the present, yes," answered Col. Zane, "but while Jonathan and Wetzel live I would
not give a snap of my fingers for Miller's chances. Hello, I hear some one talking. I sent
for Jack and the Major."

The Colonel threw open the door. Wetzel, Major McColloch, Jonathan and Silas Zane were approaching.
They were all heavily armed. Wetzel was equipped for a long chase. Double leggins were laced
round his legs. A buckskin knapsack was strapped to his shoulders.

"Major, I want you and Jonathan to watch the river," said Col. Zane. "Silas, you are to go
to the mouth of Yellow Creek and reconnoiter. We are in for a siege. It may be twenty-four
hours and it may be ten days. In the meantime I will get the Fort in shape to meet the attack.
Lewis, you have your orders. Have you anything to suggest?"

"I'll take the dog," answered Wetzel. "He'll save time for me. I'll stick to Miller's trail
and find Girty's forces. I've believed all along that Miller was helpin' Girty, and I'm thinkin'
that where Miller goes there I'll find Girty and his redskins. If it's night when I get back
I'll give the call of the hoot-owl three times, quick, so Jack and the Major will know I want
to get back across the river."

"All right, Lewis, we'll be expecting you any time," said Col. Zane.

"Betty, I'm goin' now and I want to tell you somethin'," said Wetzel, as Betty appeared. "Come
as far as the end of the path with me."

"I'm sorry you must go. But Tige seems delighted," said Betty, walking beside Wetzel, while
the dog ran on before.

"Betty, I wanted to tell you to stay close like to the house, fer this feller Miller has been
layin' traps fer you, and the Injuns is on the war-path. Don't ride your pony, and stay home now."

"Indeed, I shall never again do anything as foolish as I did yesterday. I have learned my lesson.
And Oh! Lew, I am so grateful to you for saving me. When will you return to the Fort?"

"Mebbe never, Betty."

"Oh, no. Don't say that. I know all this Indian talk will blow over, as it always does, and
you will come back and everything will be all right again."

"I hope it'll be as you say, Betty, but there's no tellin', there's no tellin'."

"You are going to see if the Indians are making preparations to besiege the Fort?"

"Yes, I am goin' fer that. And if I happen to find Miller on my way I'll give him Betty's regards."

Betty shivered at his covert meaning. Long ago in a moment of playfulness, Betty had scratched
her name on the hunter's rifle. Ever after that Wetzel called his fatal weapon by her name.

"If you were going simply to avenge I would not let you go. That wretch will get his just due
some day, never fear for that."

"Betty, 'taint likely he'll get away from me, and if he does there's Jonathan. This mornin'
when we trailed Miller down to the river bank Jonathan points across the river and says: 'You
or me,' and I says: 'Me,' so it's all settled."

"Will Mr. Clarke live?" said Betty, in an altered tone, asking the question which was uppermost
in her mind.

"I think so, I hope so. He's a husky young chap and the cut wasn't bad. He lost so much blood.
That's why he's so weak. If he gets well he'll have somethin' to tell you."

"Lew, what do you mean?" demanded Betty, quickly.

"Me and him had a long talk last night and--"

"You did not go to him and talk of me, did you?" said Betty, reproachfully.

They had now reached the end of the path. Wetzel stopped and dropped the butt of his rifle
on the ground. Tige looked on and wagged his tail. Presently the hunter spoke.

"Yes, we talked about you."

"Oh! Lewis. What did--could you have said?" faltered Betty.

"You think I hadn't ought to speak to him of you?"

"I do not see why you should. Of course you are my good friend, but he--it is not like you
to speak of me."

"Fer once I don't agree with you. I knew how it was with him so I told him. I knew how it was
with you so I told him, and I know how it is with me, so I told him that too."

"With you?" whispered Betty.

"Yes, with me. That kind of gives me a right, don't it, considerin' it's all fer your happiness?"

"With you?" echoed Betty in a low tone. She was beginning to realize that she had not known
this man. She looked up at him. His eyes were misty with an unutterable sadness.

"Oh, no! No! Lew. Say it is not true," she cried, piteously. All in a moment Betty's burdens
became too heavy for her. She wrung her little hands. Her brother's kindly advice, Bessie's
warnings, and old Grandmother Watkins' words came back to her. For the first time she believed
what they said--that Wetzel loved her. All at once the scales fell from her eyes and she saw
this man as he really was. All the thousand and one things he had done for her, his simple
teaching, his thoughtfulness, his faithfulness, and his watchful protection--all came crowding
on her as debts that she could never pay. For now what could she give this man to whom she
owed more than her life? Nothing. It was too late. Her love could have reclaimed him, could
have put an end to that solitary wandering, and have made him a good, happy man.

"Yes, Betty, it's time to tell it. I've loved you always," he said softly.

She covered her face and sobbed. Wetzel put his arm round her and drew her to him until the
dark head rested on his shoulder. Thus they stood a moment.

"Don't cry, little one," he said, tenderly. "Don't grieve fer me. My love fer you has been
the only good in my life. It's been happiness to love you. Don't think of me. I can see you
and Alfred in a happy home, surrounded by bright-eyed children. There'll be a brave lad named
fer me, and when I come, if I ever do, I'll tell him stories, and learn him the secrets of
the woods, and how to shoot, and things I know so well."

"I am so wretched--so miserable. To think I have been so--so blind, and I have teased you--and--it
might have been--only now it's too late," said Betty, between her sobs.

"Yes, I know, and it's better so. This man you love rings true. He has learnin' and edication.
I have nothin' but muscle and a quick eye. And that'll serve you and Alfred when you are in
danger. I'm goin' now. Stand here till I'm out of sight."

"Kiss me goodbye," whispered Betty.

The hunter bent his head and kissed her on the brow. Then he turned and with a rapid step went
along the bluff toward the west. When he reached the laurel bushes which fringed the edge of
the forest he looked back. He saw the slender gray clad figure standing motionless in the narrow
path. He waved his hand and then turned and plunged into the forest. The dog looked back, raised
his head and gave a long, mournful howl. Then, he too disappeared.

A mile west of the settlement Wetzel abandoned the forest and picked his way down the steep
bluff to the river. Here he prepared to swim to the western shore. He took off his buckskin
garments, spread them out on the ground, placed his knapsack in the middle, and rolling all
into a small bundle tied it round his rifle. Grasping the rifle just above the hammer he waded
into the water up to his waist and then, turning easily on his back he held the rifle straight
up, allowing the butt to rest on his breast. This left his right arm unhampered. With a powerful
back-arm stroke he rapidly swam the river, which was deep and narrow at this point. In a quarter
of an hour he was once more in his dry suit.

He was now two miles below the island, where yesterday the Indians had been concealed, and
where this morning Miller had crossed. Wetzel knew Miller expected to be trailed, and that
he would use every art and cunning of woodcraft to elude his pursuers, or to lead them into
a death-trap. Wetzel believed Miller had joined the Indians, who had undoubtedly been waiting
for him, or for a signal from him, and that he would use them to ambush the trail.

Therefore Wetzel decided he would try to strike Miller's tracks far west of the river. He risked
a great deal in attempting this because it was possible he might fail to find any trace of
the spy. But Wetzel wasted not one second. His course was chosen. With all possible speed,
which meant with him walking only when he could not run, he traveled northwest. If Miller had
taken the direction Wetzel suspected, the trails of the two men would cross about ten miles
from the Ohio. But the hunter had not traversed more than a mile of the forest when the dog
put his nose high in the air and growled. Wetzel slowed down into a walk and moved cautiously
onward, peering through the green aisles of the woods. A few rods farther on Tige uttered another
growl and put his nose to the ground. He found a trail. On examination Wetzel discovered in
the moss two moccasin tracks. Two Indians had passed that point that morning. They were going
northwest directly toward the camp of Wingenund. Wetzel stuck close to the trail all that day
and an hour before dusk he heard the sharp crack of a rifle. A moment afterward a doe came
crashing through the thicket to Wetzel's right and bounding across a little brook she disappeared.

A tree with a bushy, leafy top had been uprooted by a storm and had fallen across the stream
at this point. Wetzel crawled among the branches. The dog followed and lay down beside him.
Before darkness set in Wetzel saw that the clear water of the brook had been roiled; therefore,
he concluded that somewhere upstream Indians had waded into the brook. Probably they had killed
a deer and were getting their evening meal.

Hours passed. Twilight deepened into darkness. One by one the stars appeared; then the crescent
moon rose over the wooded hill in the west, and the hunter never moved. With his head leaning
against the log he sat quiet and patient. At midnight he whispered to the dog, and crawling
from his hiding place glided stealthily up the stream. Far ahead from the dark depths of the
forest peeped the flickering light of a camp-fire. Wetzel consumed a half hour in approaching
within one hundred feet of this light. Then he got down on his hands and knees and crawled
behind a tree on top of the little ridge which had obstructed a view of the camp scene.

From this vantage point Wetzel saw a clear space surrounded by pines and hemlocks. In the center
of this glade a fire burned briskly. Two Indians lay wrapped in their blankets, sound asleep.
Wetzel pressed the dog close to the ground, laid aside his rifle, drew his tomahawk, and lying
flat on his breast commenced to work his way, inch by inch, toward the sleeping savages. The
tall ferns trembled as the hunter wormed his way among them, but there was no sound, not a
snapping of a twig nor a rustling of a leaf. The nightwind sighed softly through the pines;
it blew the bright sparks from the burning logs, and fanned the embers into a red glow; it
swept caressingly over the sleeping savages, but it could not warn them that another wind,
the Wind-of-Death, was near at hand.

A quarter of an hour elapsed. Nearer and nearer; slowly but surely drew the hunter. With what
wonderful patience and self-control did this cold-blooded Nemesis approach his victims! Probably
any other Indian slayer would have fired his rifle and then rushed to combat with a knife or
a tomahawk. Not so Wetzel. He scorned to use powder. He crept forward like a snake gliding
upon its prey. He slid one hand in front of him and pressed it down on the moss, at first gently,
then firmly, and when he had secured a good hold he slowly dragged his body forward the length
of his arm. At last his dark form rose and stood over the unconscious Indians, like a minister
of Doom. The tomahawk flashed once, twice in the firelight, and the Indians, without a moan,
and with a convulsive quivering and straightening of their bodies, passed from the tired sleep
of nature to the eternal sleep of death.

Foregoing his usual custom of taking the scalps, Wetzel hurriedly left the glade. He had found
that the Indians were Shawnees and he had expected they were Delawares. He knew Miller's red
comrades belonged to the latter tribe. The presence of Shawnees so near the settlement confirmed
his belief that a concerted movement was to be made on the whites in the near future. He would
not have been surprised to find the woods full of redskins. He spent the remainder of that
night close under the side of a log with the dog curled up beside him.

Next morning Wetzel ran across the trail of a white man and six Indians. He tracked them all
that day and half of the night before he again rested. By noon of the following day he came
in sight of the cliff from which Jonathan Zane had watched the sufferings of Col. Crawford.
Wetzel now made his favorite move, a wide detour, and came up on the other side of the encampment.

From the top of the bluff he saw down into the village of the Delawares. The valley was alive
with Indians; they were working like beavers; some with weapons, some painting themselves,
and others dancing war-dances. Packs were being strapped on the backs of ponies. Everywhere
was the hurry and bustle of the preparation for war. The dancing and the singing were kept
up half the night.

At daybreak Wetzel was at his post. A little after sunrise he heard a long yell which he believed
announced the arrival of an important party. And so it turned out. Amid thrill yelling and
whooping, the like of which Wetzel had never before heard, Simon Girty rode into Wingenund's
camp at the head of one hundred Shawnee warriors and two hundred British Rangers from Detroit.
Wetzel recoiled when he saw the red uniforms of the Britishers and their bayonets. Including
Pipe's and Wingenund's braves the total force which was going to march against the Fort exceeded
six hundred. An impotent frenzy possessed Wetzel as he watched the orderly marching of the
Rangers and the proud bearing of the Indian warriors. Miller had spoken the truth. Ft. Henry
vas doomed.

"Tige, there's one of them struttin' turkey cocks as won't see the Ohio," said Wetzel to the dog.

Hurriedly slipping from round his neck the bullet-pouch that Betty had given him, he shook
out a bullet and with the point of his knife he scratched deep in the soft lead the letter
W. Then he cut the bullet half through. This done he detached the pouch from the cord and running
the cord through the cut in the bullet he bit the lead. He tied the string round the neck of
the dog and pointing eastward he said: "Home."

The intelligent animal understood perfectly. His duty was to get that warning home. His clear
brown eyes as much as said: "I will not fail." He wagged his tail, licked the hunter's hand,
bounded away and disappeared in the forest.

Wetzel rested easier in mind. He knew the dog would stop for nothing, and that he stood a far
better chance of reaching the Fort in safety than did he himself.

With a lurid light in his eyes Wetzel now turned to the Indians. He would never leave that
spot without sending a leaden messenger into the heart of someone in that camp. Glancing on
all sides he at length selected a place where it was possible he might approach near enough
to the camp to get a shot. He carefully studied the lay of the ground, the trees, rocks, bushes,
grass,--everything that could help screen him from the keen eye of savage scouts. When he had
marked his course he commenced his perilous descent. In an hour he had reached the bottom of
the cliff. Dropping flat on the ground, he once more started his snail-like crawl. A stretch
of swampy ground, luxuriant with rushes and saw-grass, made a part of the way easy for him,
though it led through mud, and slime, and stagnant water. Frogs and turtles warming their backs
in the sunshine scampered in alarm from their logs. Lizards blinked at him. Moccasin snakes
darted wicked forked tongues at him and then glided out of reach of his tomahawk. The frogs
had stopped their deep bass notes. A swamp-blackbird rose in fright from her nest in the saw-grass,
and twittering plaintively fluttered round and round over the pond. The flight of the bird
worried Wetzel. Such little things as these might attract the attention of some Indian scout.
But he hoped that in the excitement of the war preparations these unusual disturbances would
escape notice. At last he gained the other side of the swamp. At the end of the cornfield before
him was the clump of laurel which he had marked from the cliff as his objective point. The
Indian corn was now about five feet high. Wetzel passed through this field unseen. He reached
the laurel bushes, where he dropped to the ground and lay quiet a few minutes. In the dash
which he would soon make to the forest he needed all his breath and all his fleetness. He looked
to the right to see how far the woods was from where he lay. Not more than one hundred feet.
He was safe. Once in the dark shade of those trees, and with his foes behind him, he could
defy the whole race of Delawares. He looked to his rifle, freshened the powder in the pan,
carefully adjusted the flint, and then rose quietly to his feet.

Wetzel's keen gaze, as he swept it from left to right, took in every detail of the camp. He
was almost in the village. A tepee stood not twenty feet from his hiding-place. He could have
tossed a stone in the midst of squaws, and braves, and chiefs. The main body of Indians was
in the center of the camp. The British were lined up further on. Both Indians and soldiers
were resting on their arms and waiting. Suddenly Wetzel started and his heart leaped. Under
a maple tree not one hundred and fifty yards distant stood four men in earnest consultation.
One was an Indian. Wetzel recognized the fierce, stern face, the haughty, erect figure. He
knew that long, trailing war-bonnet. It could have adorned the head of but one chief--Wingenund,
the sachem of the Delawares. A British officer, girdled and epauletted, stood next to Wingenund.
Simon Girty, the renegade, and Miller, the traitor, completed the group.

Wetzel sank to his knees. The perspiration poured from his face. The mighty hunter trembled,
but it was from eagerness. Was not Girty, the white savage, the bane of the poor settlers,
within range of a weapon that never failed? Was not the murderous chieftain, who had once whipped
and tortured him, who had burned Crawford alive, there in plain sight? Wetzel revelled a moment
in fiendish glee. He passed his hands tenderly over the long barrel of his rifle. In that moment
as never before he gloried in his power--a power which enabled him to put a bullet in the eye
of a squirrel at the distance these men were from him. But only for an instant did the hunter
yield to this feeling. He knew too well the value of time and opportunity.

He rose again to his feet and peered out from under the shading laurel branches. As he did
so the dark face of Miller turned full toward him. A tremor, like the intense thrill of a tiger
when he is about to spring, ran over Wetzel's frame. In his mad gladness at being within rifle-shot
of his great Indian foe, Wetzel had forgotten the man he had trailed for two days. He had forgotten
Miller. He had only one shot--and Betty was to be avenged. He gritted his teeth. The Delaware
chief was as safe as though he were a thousand miles away. This opportunity for which Wetzel
had waited so many years, and the successful issue of which would have gone so far toward the
fulfillment of a life's purpose, was worse than useless. A great temptation assailed the hunter.

Wetzel's face was white when he raised the rifle; his dark eye, gleaming vengefully, ran along
the barrel. The little bead on the front sight first covered the British officer, and then
the broad breast of Girty. It moved reluctantly and searched out the heart of Wingenund, where
it lingered for a fleeting instant. At last it rested upon the swarthy face of Miller.

"Fer Betty," muttered the hunter, between his clenched teeth as he pressed the trigger.

The spiteful report awoke a thousand echoes. When the shot broke the stillness Miller was talking
and gesticulating. His hand dropped inertly; he stood upright for a second, his head slowly
bowing and his body swaying perceptibly. Then he plunged forward like a log, his face striking
the sand. He never moved again. He was dead even before he struck the ground.

Blank silence followed this tragic denouement. Wingenund, a cruel and relentless Indian, but
never a traitor, pointed to the small bloody hole in the middle of Miller's forehead, and then
nodded his head solemnly. The wondering Indians stood aghast. Then with loud yells the braves
ran to the cornfield; they searched the laurel bushes. But they only discovered several moccasin
prints in the sand, and a puff of white smoke wafting away upon the summer breeze.

CHAPTER XII.

Alfred Clarke lay between life and death. Miller's knife-thrust, although it had made a deep
and dangerous wound, had not pierced any vital part; the amount of blood lost made Alfred's
condition precarious. Indeed, he would not have lived through that first day but for a wonderful
vitality. Col. Zane's wife, to whom had been consigned the delicate task of dressing the wound,
shook her head when she first saw the direction of the cut. She found on a closer examination
that the knife-blade had been deflected by a rib, and had just missed the lungs. The wound
was bathed, sewed up, and bandaged, and the greatest precaution taken to prevent the sufferer
from loosening the linen. Every day when Mrs. Zane returned from the bedside of the young man
she would be met at the door by Betty, who, in that time of suspense, had lost her bloom, and
whose pale face showed the effects of sleepless nights.

"Betty, would you mind going over to the Fort and relieving Mrs. Martin an hour or two?" said
Mrs. Zane one day as she came home, looking worn and weary. "We are both tired to death, and
Nell Metzar was unable to come. Clarke is unconscious, and will not know you, besides he is
sleeping now."

Betty hurried over to Capt. Boggs' cabin, next the blockhouse, where Alfred lay, and with a
palpitating heart and a trepidation wholly out of keeping with the brave front she managed
to assume, she knocked gently on the door.

"Ah, Betty, 'tis you, bless your heart," said a matronly little woman who opened the door.
"Come right in. He is sleeping now, poor fellow, and it's the first real sleep he has had.
He has been raving crazy forty-eight hours."

"Mrs. Martin, what shall I do?" whispered Betty.

"Oh, just watch him, my dear," answered the elder woman.

"If you need me send one of the lads up to the house for me. I shall return as soon as I can.
Keep the flies away--they are bothersome--and bathe his head every little while. If he wakes
and tries to sit up, as he does sometimes, hold him back. He is as weak as a cat. If he raves,
soothe him by talking to him. I must go now, dearie."

Betty was left alone in the little room. Though she had taken a seat near the bed where Alfred
lay, she had not dared to look at him. Presently conquering her emotion, Betty turned her gaze
on the bed. Alfred was lying easily on his back, and notwithstanding the warmth of the day
he was covered with a quilt. The light from the window shone on his face. How deathly white
it was! There was not a vestige of color in it; the brow looked like chiseled marble; dark
shadows underlined the eyes, and the whole face was expressive of weariness and pain.

There are times when a woman's love is all motherliness. All at once this man seemed to Betty
like a helpless child. She felt her heart go out to the poor sufferer with a feeling before
unknown. She forgot her pride and her fears and her disappointments. She remembered only that
this strong man lay there at death's door because he had resented an insult to her. The past
with all its bitterness rolled away and was lost, and in its place welled up a tide of forgiveness
strong and sweet and hopeful. Her love, like a fire that had been choked and smothered, smouldering
but never extinct, and which blazes up with the first breeze, warmed and quickened to life
with the touch of her hand on his forehead.

An hour passed. Betty was now at her ease and happier than she had been for months. Her patient
continued to sleep peacefully and dreamlessly. With a feeling of womanly curiosity Betty looked
around the room. Over the rude mantelpiece were hung a sword, a brace of pistols, and two pictures.
These last interested Betty very much. They were portraits; one of them was a likeness of a
sweet-faced woman who Betty instinctively knew was his mother. Her eyes lingered tenderly on
that face, so like the one lying on the pillow. The other portrait was of a beautiful girl
whose dark, magnetic eyes challenged Betty. Was this his sister or--someone else? She could
not restrain a jealous twinge, and she felt annoyed to find herself comparing that face with
her own. She looked no longer at that portrait, but recommenced her survey of the room. Upon
the door hung a broad-brimmed hat with eagle plumes stuck in the band. A pair of hightopped
riding-boots, a saddle, and a bridle lay on the floor in the corner. The table was covered
with Indian pipes, tobacco pouches, spurs, silk stocks, and other articles.

Suddenly Betty felt that some one was watching her. She turned timidly toward the bed and became
much frightened when she encountered the intense gaze from a pair of steel-blue eyes. She almost
fell from the chair; but presently she recollected that Alfred had been unconscious for days,
and that he would not know who was watching by his bedside.

"Mother, is that you?" asked Alfred, in a weak, low voice.

"Yes, I am here," answered Betty, remembering the old woman's words about soothing the sufferer.

"But I thought you were ill."

"I was, but I am better now, and it is you who are ill."

"My head hurts so."

"Let me bathe it for you."

"How long have I been home?"

Betty bathed and cooled his heated brow. He caught and held her hands, looking wonderingly
at her the while.

"Mother, somehow I thought you had died. I must have dreamed it. I am very happy; but tell
me, did a message come for me to-day?"

Betty shook her head, for she could not speak. She saw he was living in the past, and he was
praying for the letter which she would gladly have written had she but known.

"No message, and it is now so long."

"It will come to-morrow," whispered Betty.

"Now, mother, that is what you always say," said the invalid, as he began to toss his head
wearily to and fro. "Will she never tell me? It is not like her to keep me in suspense. She
was the sweetest, truest, loveliest girl in all the world. When I get well, mother, I ant going
to find out if she loves me."

"I am sure she does. I know she loves you," answered Betty.

"It is very good of you to say that," he went on in his rambling talk. "Some day I'll bring
her to you and we'll make her a queen here in the old home. I'll be a better son now and not
run away from home again. I've given the dear old mother many a heartache, but that's all past
now. The wanderer has come home. Kiss me good-night, mother."

Betty looked down with tear-blurred eyes on the haggard face. Unconsciously she had been running
her fingers through the fair hair that lay so damp over his brow. Her pity and tenderness had
carried her far beyond herself, and at the last words she bent her head and kissed him on the lips.

"Who are you? You are not my mother. She is dead," he cried, starting up wildly, and looking
at her with brilliant eyes.

Betty dropped the fan and rose quickly to her feet. What had she done? A terrible thought had
flashed into her mind. Suppose he were not delirious, and had been deceiving her. Oh! for a
hiding-place, or that the floor would swallow her. Oh! if some one would only come.

Footsteps sounded on the stairs and Betty ran to the door. To her great relief Mrs. Martin
was coming up.

"You can run home now, there's a dear," said the old lady. "We have several watchers for to-night.
It will not be long now when he will commence to mend, or else he will die. Poor boy, please
God that he gets well. Has he been good? Did he call for any particular young lady? Never fear,
Betty, I'll keep the secret. He'll never know you were here unless you tell him yourself."

Meanwhile the days had been busy ones for Col. Zane. In anticipation of an attack from the
Indians, the settlers had been fortifying their refuge and making the block-house as nearly
impregnable as possible. Everything that was movable and was of value they put inside the stockade
fence, out of reach of the destructive redskins. All the horses and cattle were driven into
the inclosure. Wagon-loads of hay, grain and food were stored away in the block-house.

Never before had there been such excitement on the frontier. Runners from Ft. Pitt, Short Creek,
and other settlements confirmed the rumor that all the towns along the Ohio were preparing
for war. Not since the outbreak of the Revolution had there been so much confusion and alarm
among the pioneers. To be sure, those on the very verge of the frontier, as at Ft. Henry, had
heretofore little to fear from the British. During most of this time there had been comparative
peace on the western border, excepting those occasional murders, raids, and massacres perpetrated
by the different Indian tribes, and instigated no doubt by Girty and the British at Detroit.
Now all kinds of rumors were afloat: Washington was defeated; a close alliance between England
and the confederated western tribes had been formed; Girty had British power and wealth back
of him. These and many more alarming reports travelled from settlement to settlement.

The death of Col. Crawford had been a terrible shock to the whole country. On the border spread
an universal gloom, and the low, sullen mutterings of revengeful wrath. Crawford had been so
prominent a man, so popular, and, except in his last and fatal expedition, such an efficient
leader that his sudden taking off was almost a national calamity. In fact no one felt it more
keenly than did Washington himself, for Crawford was his esteemed friend.

Col. Zane believed Ft. Henry had been marked by the British and the Indians. The last runner
from Ft. Pitt had informed him that the description of Miller tallied with that of one of the
ten men who had deserted from Ft. Pitt in 1778 with the tories Girth, McKee, and Elliott. Col.
Zane was now satisfied that Miller was an agent of Girty and therefore of the British. So since
all the weaknesses of the Fort, the number of the garrison, and the favorable conditions for
a siege were known to Girty, there was nothing left for Col. Zane and his men but to make a
brave stand.

Jonathan Zane and Major McColloch watched the river. Wetzel had disappeared as if the earth
had swallowed him. Some pioneers said he would never return. But Col. Zane believed Wetzel
would walk into the Fort, as he had done many times in the last ten years, with full information
concerning the doings of the Indians. However, the days passed and nothing happened. Their
work completed, the settlers waited for the first sign of an enemy. But as none came, gradually
their fears were dispelled and they began to think the alarm had been a false one.

All this time Alfred Clarke was recovering his health and strength. The day came when he was
able to leave his bed and sit by the window. How glad it made him feel to look out on the green
woods and the broad, winding river; how sweet to his ears were the songs of the birds; how
soothing was the drowsy hum of the bees in the fragrant honeysuckle by his window. His hold
on life had been slight and life was good. He smiled in pitying derision as he remembered his
recklessness. He had not been in love with life. In his gloomy moods he had often thought life
was hardly worth the living. What sickly sentiment! He had been on the brink of the grave,
but he had been snatched back from the dark river of Death. It needed but this to show him
the joy of breathing, the glory of loving, the sweetness of living. He resolved that for him
there would be no more drifting, no more purposelessness. If what Wetzel had told him was true,
if he really had not loved in vain, then his cup of happiness was overflowing. Like a far-off
and almost forgotten strain of music some memory struggled to take definite shape in his mind;
but it was so hazy, so vague, so impalpable, that he could remember nothing clearly.

Isaac Zane and his Indian bride called on Alfred that afternoon.

"Alfred, I can't tell you how glad I am to see you up again," said Isaac, earnestly, as he
wrung Alfred's hand. "Say, but it was a tight squeeze! It has been a bad time for you."

Nothing could have been more pleasing than Myeerah's shy yet eloquent greeting. She gave Alfred
her little hand and said in her figurative style of speaking, "Myeerah is happy for you and
for others. You are strong like the West Wind that never dies."

"Myeerah and I are going this afternoon, and we came over to say good-bye to you. We intend
riding down the river fifteen miles and then crossing, to avoid running into any band of Indians."

"And how does Myeerah like the settlement by this time?"

"Oh, she is getting on famously. Betty and she have fallen in love with each other. It is amusing
to hear Betty try to talk in the Wyandot tongue, and to see Myeerah's consternation when Betty
gives her a lesson in deportment."

"I rather fancy it would be interesting, too. Are you not going back to the Wyandots at a dangerous
time?"

"As to that I can't say. I believe, though, it is better that I get back to Tarhe's camp before
we have any trouble with the Indians. I am anxious to get there before Girty or some of his
agents."

"Well, if you must go, good luck to you, and may we meet again."

"It will not be long, I am sure. And, old man," he continued, with a bright smile, "when Myeerah
and I come again to Ft. Henry we expect to find all well with you. Cheer up, and good-bye."

All the preparations had been made for the departure of Isaac and Myeerah to their far-off
Indian home. They were to ride the Indian ponies on which they had arrived at the Fort. Col.
Zane had given Isaac one of his pack horses. This animal carried blankets, clothing, and food
which insured comparative comfort in the long ride through the wilderness.

"We will follow the old trail until we reach the hickory swale," Isaac was saying to the Colonel,
"and then we will turn off and make for the river. Once across the Ohio we can make the trip
in two days."

"I think you'll make it all right," said Col. Zane.

"Even if I do meet Indians I shall have no fear, for I have a protector here," answered Isaac
as he led Myeerah's pony to the step.

"Good-bye, Myeerah; he is yours, but do not forget he is dear to us," said Betty, embracing
and kissing the Indian girl.

"My sister does not know Myeerah. The White Eagle will return."

"Good-bye, Betts, don't cry. I shall come home again. And when I do I hope I shall be in time
to celebrate another event, this time with you as the heroine. Good-bye. Goodbye."

The ponies cantered down the road. At the bend Isaac and Myeerah turned and waved their hands
until the foliage of the trees hid them from view.

"Well, these things happen naturally enough. I suppose they must be. But I should much have
preferred Isaac staying here. Hello! What the deuce is that? By Lord! It's Tige!"

The exclamation following Col. Zane's remarks had been called forth by Betty's dog. He came
limping painfully up the road from the direction of the river. When he saw Col. Zane he whined
and crawled to the Colonel's feet. The dog was wet and covered with burrs, and his beautiful
glossy coat, which had been Betty's pride, was dripping with blood.

"Silas, Jonathan, come here," cried Col. Zane. "Here's Tige, back without Wetzel, and the poor
dog has been shot almost to pieces. What does it mean?"

"Indians," said Jonathan, coming out of the house with Silas, and Mrs. Zane and Betty, who
had heard the Colonel's call.

"He has come a long way. Look at his feet. They are torn and bruised," continued Jonathan.
"And he has been near Wingenund's camp. You see that red clay on his paws. There is no red
clay that I know of round here, and there are miles of it this side of the Delaware camp."

"What is the matter with Tige?" asked Betty.

"He is done for. Shot through, poor fellow. How did he ever reach home?" said Silas.

"Oh, I hope not! Dear old Tige," said Betty as she knelt and tenderly placed the head of the
dog in her lap. "Why, what is this? I never put that there. Eb, Jack, look here. There is a
string around his neck," and Betty pointed excitedly to a thin cord which was almost concealed
in the thick curly hair.

"Good gracious! Eb, look! It is the string off the prize bullet pouch I made, and that Wetzel
won on Isaac's wedding day. It is a message from Lew," said Betty.

"Well, by Heavens! This is strange. So it is. I remember that string. Cut it off, Jack," said
Col. Zane.

When Jonathan had cut the string and held it up they all saw the lead bullet. Col. Zane examined
it and showed them what had been rudely scratched on it.

"A letter W. Does that mean Wetzel?" asked the Colonel.

"It means war. It's a warning from Wetzel--not the slightest doubt of that," said Jonathan.
"Wetzel sends this because he knows we are to be attacked, and because there must have been
great doubt of his getting back to tell us. And Tige has been shot on his way home."

This called the attention to the dog, which had been momentarily forgotten. His head rolled
from Betty's knee; a quiver shook his frame; he struggled to rise to his feet, but his strength
was too far spent; he crawled close to Betty's feet; his eyes looked up at her with almost
human affection; then they closed, and he lay still. Tige was dead.

"It is all over, Betty. Tige will romp no more. He will never be forgotten, for he was faithful
to the end. Jonathan, tell the Major of Wetzel's warning, and both of you go back to your posts
on the river. Silas, send Capt. Boggs to me."

An hour after the death of Tige the settlers were waiting for the ring of the meeting-house
bell to summon them to the Fort.

Supper at Col. Zane's that night was not the occasion of good-humored jest and pleasant conversation.
Mrs. Zane's face wore a distressed and troubled look; Betty was pale and quiet; even the Colonel
was gloomy; and the children, missing the usual cheerfulness of the evening meal, shrank close
to their mother.

Darkness slowly settled down; and with it came a feeling of relief, at least for the night,
for the Indians rarely attacked the settlements after dark. Capt. Boggs came over and he and
Col. Zane conversed in low tones.

"The first thing in the morning I want you to ride over to Short Creek for reinforcements.
I'll send the Major also and by a different route. I expect to hear tonight from Wetzel. Twelve
times has he crossed that threshold with the information which made an Indian surprise impossible.
And I feel sure he will come again."

"What was that?" said Betty, who was sitting on the doorstep.

"Sh-h!" whispered Col. Zane, holding up his finger.

The night was warm and still. In the perfect quiet which followed the Colonel's whispered exclamation
the listeners heard the beating of their hearts. Then from the river bank came the cry of an
owl; low but clear it came floating to their ears, its single melancholy note thrilling them.
Faint and far off in the direction of the island sounded the answer.

"I knew it. I told you. We shall know all presently," said Col. Zane. "The first call was Jonathan's,
and it was answered."

The moments dragged away. The children had fallen asleep on the bearskin rug. Mrs. Zane and
Betty had heard the Colonel's voice, and sat with white faces, waiting, waiting for they knew
not what.

A familiar, light-moccasined tread sounded on the path, a tall figure loomed up from the darkness;
it came up the path, passed up the steps, and crossed the threshold.

"Wetzel!" exclaimed Col. Zane and Capt. Boggs. It was indeed the hunter. How startling was
his appearance! The buckskin hunting coat and leggins were wet, torn and bespattered with mud;
the water ran and dripped from him to form little muddy pools on the floor; only his rifle
and powder horn were dry. His face was ghastly white except where a bullet wound appeared on
his temple, from which the blood had oozed down over his cheek. An unearthly light gleamed
from his eyes. In that moment Wetzel was an appalling sight.

"Col. Zane, I'd been here days before, but I run into some Shawnees, and they gave me a hard
chase. I have to report that Girty, with four hundred Injuns and two hundred Britishers, are
on the way to Ft. Henry."

"My God!" exclaimed Col. Zane. Strong man as he was the hunter's words had unnerved him.

The loud and clear tone of the church-bell rang out on the still night air. Only once it sounded,
but it reverberated among the hills, and its single deep-toned ring was like a knell. The listeners
almost expected to hear it followed by the fearful war-cry, that cry which betokened for many
desolation and death.

CHAPTER XIII.

Morning found the settlers, with the exception of Col. Zane, his brother Jonathan, the negro
Sam, and Martin Wetzel, all within the Fort. Col. Zane had determined, long before, that in
the event of another siege, he would use his house as an outpost. Twice it had been destroyed
by fire at the hands of the Indians. Therefore, surrounding himself by these men, who were
all expert marksmen, Col. Zane resolved to protect his property and at the same time render
valuable aid to the Fort.

Early that morning a pirogue loaded with cannon balls, from Ft. Pitt and bound for Louisville,
had arrived and Captain Sullivan, with his crew of three men, had demanded admittance. In the
absence of Capt. Boggs and Major McColloch, both of whom had been dispatched for reinforcements,
Col. Zane had placed his brother Silas in command of the Fort. Sullivan informed Silas that
he and his men had been fired on by Indians and that they sought the protection of the Fort.
The services of himself and men, which he volunteered, were gratefully accepted.

All told, the little force in the block-house did not exceed forty-two, and that counting the
boys and the women who could handle rifles. The few preparations had been completed and now
the settlers were awaiting the appearance of the enemy. Few words were spoken. The children
were secured where they would be out of the way of flying bullets. They were huddled together
silent and frightened; pale-faced but resolute women passed up and down the length of the block-house;
some carried buckets of water and baskets of food; others were tearing bandages; grim-faced
men peered from the portholes; all were listening for the war-cry.

They had not long to wait. Before noon the well-known whoop came from the wooded shore of the
river, and it was soon followed by the appearance of hundreds of Indians. The river, which
was low, at once became a scene of great animation. From a placid, smoothly flowing stream
it was turned into a muddy, splashing, turbulent torrent. The mounted warriors urged their
steeds down the bank and into the water; the unmounted improvised rafts and placed their weapons
and ammunition upon them; then they swam and pushed, kicked and yelled their way across; other
Indians swam, holding the bridles of the pack-horses. A detachment of British soldiers followed
the Indians. In an hour the entire army appeared on the river bluff not three hundred yards
from the Fort. They were in no hurry to begin the attack. Especially did the Indians seem to
enjoy the lull before the storm, and as they stalked to and fro in plain sight of the garrison,
or stood in groups watching the Fort, they were seen in all their hideous war-paint and formidable
battle-array. They were exultant. Their plumes and eagle feathers waved proudly in the morning
breeze. Now and then the long, peculiarly broken yell of the Shawnees rang out clear and strong.
The soldiers were drawn off to one side and well out of range of the settlers' guns. Their
red coats and flashing bayonets were new to most of the little band of men in the block-house.

"Ho, the Fort!"

It was a strong, authoritative voice and came from a man mounted on a black horse.

"Well, Girty, what is it?" shouted Silas Zane.

"We demand unconditional surrender," was the answer.

"You will never get it," replied Silas.

"Take more time to think it over. You see we have a force here large enough to take the Fort
in an hour."

"That remains to be seen," shouted some one through porthole.

An hour passed. The soldiers and the Indians lounged around on the grass and walked to and
fro on the bluff. At intervals a taunting Indian yell, horrible in its suggestiveness came
floating on the air. When the hour was up three mounted men rode out in advance of the waiting
Indians. One was clad in buckskin, another in the uniform of a British officer, and the third
was an Indian chief whose powerful form was naked except for his buckskin belt and legging.

"Will you surrender?" came in the harsh and arrogant voice of the renegade.

"Never! Go back to your squaws!" yelled Sullivan.

"I am Capt. Pratt of the Queen's Rangers. If you surrender I will give you the best protection
King George affords," shouted the officer.

"To hell with lying George! Go back to your hair-buying Hamilton and tell him the whole British
army could not make us surrender," roared Hugh Bennet.

"If you do not give up, the Fort will be attacked and burned. Your men will be massacred and
your women given to the Indians," said Girty.

"You will never take a man, woman or child alive," yelled Silas. "We remember Crawford, you
white traitor, and we are not going to give up to be butchered. Come on with your red-jackets
and your red-devils. We are ready."

"We have captured and killed the messenger you sent out, and now all hope of succor must be
abandoned. Your doom is sealed."

"What kind of a man was he?" shouted Sullivan.

"A fine, active young fellow," answered the outlaw.

"That's a lie," snapped Sullivan, "he was an old, gray haired man."

As the officer and the outlaw chief turned, apparently to consult their companion, a small
puff of white smoke shot forth from one of the portholes of the block-house. It was followed
by the ringing report of a rifle. The Indian chief clutched wildly at his breast, fell forward
on his horse, and after vainly trying to keep his seat, slipped to the ground. He raised himself
once, then fell backward and lay still. Full two hundred yards was not proof against Wetzel's
deadly smallbore, and Red Fox, the foremost war chieftain of the Shawnees, lay dead, a victim
to the hunter's vengeance. It was characteristic of Wetzel that he picked the chief, for he
could have shot either the British officer or the renegade. They retreated out of range, leaving
the body of the chief where it had fallen, while the horse, giving a frightened snort, galloped
toward the woods. Wetzel's yell coming quickly after his shot, excited the Indians to a very
frenzy, and they started on a run for the Fort, discharging their rifles and screeching like
so many demons.

In the cloud of smoke which at once enveloped the scene the Indians spread out and surrounded
the Fort. A tremendous rush by a large party of Indians was made for the gate of the Fort.
They attacked it fiercely with their tomahawks, and a log which they used as a battering-ram.
But the stout gate withstood their united efforts, and the galling fire from the portholes
soon forced them to fall back and seek cover behind the trees and the rocks. From these points
of vantage they kept up an uninterrupted fire.

The soldiers had made a dash at the stockade-fence, yelling derision at the small French cannon
which was mounted on top of the block-house. They thought it a "dummy" because they had learned
that in the 1777 siege the garrison had no real cannon, but had tried to utilize a wooden one.
They yelled and hooted and mocked at this piece and dared the garrison to fire it. Sullivan,
who was in charge of the cannon, bided his time. When the soldiers were massed closely together
and making another rush for the stockade-fence Sullivan turned loose the little "bulldog,"
spreading consternation and destruction in the British ranks.

"Stand back! Stand back!" Capt. Pratt was heard to yell. "By God! there's no wood about that gun."

After this the besiegers withdrew for a breathing spell. At this early stage of the siege the
Indians were seen to board Sullivan's pirogue, and it was soon discovered they were carrying
the cannon balls from the boat to the top of the bluff. In their simple minds they had conceived
a happy thought. They procured a white-oak log probably a foot in diameter, split it through
the middle and hollowed out the inside with their tomahawks. Then with iron chains and bars,
which they took from Reihart's blacksmith shop, they bound and securely fastened the sides
together. They dragged the improvised cannon nearer to the Fort, placed it on two logs and
weighted it down with stones. A heavy charge of powder and ball was then rammed into the wooden
gun. The soldiers, though much interested in the manoeuvre, moved back to a safe distance,
while many of the Indians crowded round the new weapon. The torch was applied; there was a
red flash--boom! The hillside was shaken by the tremendous explosion, and when the smoke lifted
from the scene the naked forms of the Indians could be seen writhing in agony on the ground.
Not a vestige of the wooden gun remained. The iron chains had proved terrible death-dealing
missiles to the Indians near the gun. The Indians now took to their natural methods of warfare.
They hid in the long grass, in the deserted cabins, behind the trees and up in the branches.
Not an Indian was visible, but the rain of bullets pattered steadily against the block-house.
Every bush and every tree spouted little puffs of white smoke, and the leaden messengers of
Death whistled through the air.

After another unsuccessful effort to destroy a section of the stockade-fence the soldiers had
retired. Their red jackets made them a conspicuous mark for the sharp-eyed settlers. Capt.
Pratt had been shot through the thigh. He suffered great pain, and was deeply chagrined by
the surprising and formidable defense of the garrison which he had been led to believe would
fall an easy prey to the King's soldiers. He had lost one-third of his men. Those who were
left refused to run straight in the face of certain death. They had not been drilled to fight
an unseen enemy. Capt. Pratt was compelled to order a retreat to the river bluff, where he
conferred with Girty.

Inside the block-house was great activity, but no confusion. That little band of fighters might
have been drilled for a king's bodyguard. Kneeling before each porthole on the river side of
the Fort was a man who would fight while there was breath left in him. He did not discharge
his weapon aimlessly as the Indians did, but waited until he saw the outline of an Indian form,
or a red coat, or a puff of white smoke; then he would thrust the rifle-barrel forward, take
a quick aim and fire. By the side of every man stood a heroic woman whose face was blanched,
but who spoke never a word as she put the muzzle of the hot rifle into a bucket of water, cooled
the barrel, wiped it dry and passed it back to the man beside her.

Silas Zane had been wounded at the first fire. A glancing ball had struck him on the head,
inflicting a painful scalp wound. It was now being dressed by Col. Zane's wife, whose skilled
fingers were already tired with the washing and the bandaging of the injuries received by the
defenders. In all that horrible din of battle, the shrill yells of the savages, the hoarse
shouts of the settlers, the boom of the cannon overhead, the cracking of rifles and the whistling
of bullets; in all that din of appalling noise, and amid the stifling smoke, the smell of burned
powder, the sickening sight of the desperately wounded and the already dead, the Colonel's
brave wife had never faltered. She was here and there; binding the wounds, helping Lydia and
Betty mould bullets, encouraging the men, and by her example, enabling those women to whom
border war was new to bear up under the awful strain.

Sullivan, who had been on top of the block-house, came down the ladder almost without touching
it. Blood was running down his bare arm and dripping from the ends of his fingers.

"Zane, Martin has been shot," he said hoarsely. "The same Indian who shot away these fingers
did it. The bullets seem to come from some elevation. Send some scout up there and find out
where that damned Indian is hiding."

"Martin shot? God, his poor wife! Is he dead?" said Silas.

"Not yet. Bennet is bringing him down. Here, I want this hand tied up, so that my gun won't
be so slippery."

Wetzel was seen stalking from one porthole to another. His fearful yell sounded above all the
others. He seemed to bear a charmed life, for not a bullet had so much as scratched him. Silas
communicated to him what Sullivan had said. The hunter mounted the ladder and went up on the
roof. Soon he reappeared, descended into the room and ran into the west end of the block-house.
He kneeled before a porthole through which he pushed the long black barrel of his rifle. Silas
and Sullivan followed him and looked in the direction indicated by his weapon. It pointed toward
the bushy top of a tall poplar tree which stood on the hill west of the Fort. Presently a little
cloud of white smoke issued from the leafy branches, and it was no sooner seen than Wetzel's
rifle was discharged. There was a great commotion among the leaves, the branches swayed and
thrashed, and then a dark body plunged downward to strike on the rocky slope of the bluff and
roll swiftly out of sight. The hunter's unnatural yell pealed out.

"Great God! The man's crazy," cried Sullivan, staring at Wetzel's demon-like face.

"No, no. It's his way," answered Silas.

At that moment the huge frame of Bennet filled up the opening in the roof and started down
the ladder. In one arm he carried the limp body of a young man. When he reached the floor he
laid the body down and beckoned to Mrs. Zane. Those watching saw that the young man was Will
Martin, and that he was still alive. But it was evident that he had not long to live. His face
had a leaden hue and his eyes were bright and glassy. Alice, his wife, flung herself on her
knees beside him and tenderly raised the drooping head. No words could express the agony in
her face as she raised it to Mrs. Zane. In it was a mute appeal, an unutterable prayer for
hope. Mrs. Zane turned sorrowfully to her task. There was no need of her skill here. Alfred
Clarke, who had been ordered to take Martin's place on top of the block-house, paused a moment
in silent sympathy. When he saw that little hole in the bared chest, from which the blood welled
up in an awful stream, he shuddered and passed on. Betty looked up from her work and then turned
away sick and faint. Her mute lips moved as if in prayer.

Alice was left alone with her dying husband. She tenderly supported his head on her bosom,
leaned her face against his and kissed the cold, numb lips. She murmured into his already deaf
ear the old tender names. He knew her, for he made a feeble effort to pass his arm round her
neck. A smile illumined his face. Then death claimed him. With wild, distended eyes and with
hands pressed tightly to her temples Alice rose slowly to her feet.

"Oh, God! Oh, God!" she cried.

Her prayer was answered. In a momentary lull in the battle was heard the deadly hiss of a bullet
as it sped through one of the portholes. It ended with a slight sickening spat as the lead
struck the flesh. Then Alice, without a cry, fell on the husband's breast. Silas Zane found
her lying dead with the body of her husband clasped closely in her arms. He threw a blanket
over them and went on his wearying round of the bastions.

      * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

The besiegers had been greatly harassed and hampered by the continual fire from Col. Zane's
house. It was exceedingly difficult for the Indians, and impossible for the British, to approach
near enough to the Colonel's house to get an effective shot. Col. Zane and his men had the
advantage of being on higher ground. Also they had four rifles to a man, and they used every
spare moment for reloading. Thus they were enabled to pour a deadly fire into the ranks of
the enemy, and to give the impression of being much stronger in force than they really were.

About dusk the firing ceased and the Indians repaired to the river bluff. Shortly afterward
their camp-fires were extinguished and all became dark and quiet. Two hours passed. Fortunately
the clouds, which had at first obscured the moon, cleared away somewhat and enough light was
shed on the scene to enable the watchers to discern objects near by.

Col. Zane had just called together his men for a conference. He suspected some cunning deviltry
on part of the Indians.

"Sam, take what stuff to eat you can lay your hands on and go up to the loft. Keep a sharp
lookout and report anything to Jonathan or me," said the Colonel.

All afternoon Jonathan Zane had loaded and fired his rifles in sullen and dogged determination.
He had burst one rifle and disabled another. The other men were fine marksmen, but it was undoubtedly
Jonathan's unerring aim that made the house so unapproachable. He used an extremely heavy,
large bore rifle. In the hands of a man strong enough to stand its fierce recoil it was a veritable
cannon. The Indians had soon learned to respect the range of that rifle, and they gave the
cabin a wide berth.

But now that darkness had enveloped the valley the advantage lay with the savages. Col. Zane
glanced apprehensively at the blackened face of his brother.

"Do you think the Fort can hold out?" he asked in a husky voice. He was a bold man, but he
thought now of his wife and children.

"I don't know," answered Jonathan. "I saw that big Shawnee chief today. His name is Fire. He
is well named. He is a fiend. Girty has a picked band."

"The Fort has held out surprisingly well against such combined and fierce attacks. The Indians
are desperate. You can easily see that in the way in which they almost threw their lives away.
The green square is covered with dead Indians."

"If help does not come in twenty-four hours not one man will escape alive. Even Wetzel could
not break through that line of Indians. But if we can hold the Indians off a day longer they
will get tired and discouraged. Girty will not be able to hold them much longer. The British
don't count. It's not their kind of war. They can't shoot, and so far as I can see they haven't
done much damage."

"To your posts, men, and every man think of the women and children in the block-house."

For a long time, which seemed hours to the waiting and watching settlers, not a sound could
be heard, nor any sign of the enemy seen. Thin clouds had again drifted over the moon, allowing
only a pale, wan light to shine down on the valley. Time dragged on and the clouds grew thicker
and denser until the moon and the stars were totally obscured. Still no sign or sound of the
savages.

"What was that?" suddenly whispered Col. Zane.

"It was a low whistle from Sam. We'd better go up," said Jonathan.

They went up the stairs to the second floor from which they ascended to the loft by means of
a ladder. The loft was as black as pitch. In that Egyptian darkness it was no use to look for
anything, so they crawled on their hands and knees over the piles of hides and leather which
lay on the floor. When they reached the small window they made out the form of the negro.

"What is it, Sam?" whispered Jonathan.

"Look, see thar, Massa Zane," came the answer in a hoarse whisper from the negro and at the
same time he pointed down toward the ground.

Col. Zane put his head alongside Jonathan's and all three men peered out into the darkness.

"Jack, can you see anything?" said Col. Zane.

"No, but wait a minute until the moon throws a light."

A breeze had sprung up. The clouds were passing rapidly over the moon, and at long intervals
a rift between the clouds let enough light through to brighten the square for an instant.

"Now, Massa Zane, thar!" exclaimed the slave.

"I can't see a thing. Can you, Jack?"

"I am not sure yet. I can see something, but whether it is a log or not I don't know."

Just then there was a faint light like the brightening of a firefly, or like the blowing of
a tiny spark from a stick of burning wood. Jonathan uttered a low curse.

"D--n 'em! At their old tricks with fire. I thought all this quiet meant something. The grass
out there is full of Indians, and they are carrying lighted arrows under them so as to cover
the light. But we'll fool the red devils this time"

"I can see 'em, Massa Zane."

"Sh-h-h! no more talk," whispered Col. Zane.

The men waited with cocked rifles. Another spark rose seemingly out of the earth. This time
it was nearer the house. No sooner had its feeble light disappeared than the report of the
negro's rifle awoke the sleeping echoes. It was succeeded by a yell which seemed to come from
under the window. Several dark forms rose so suddenly that they appeared to spring out of the
ground. Then came the peculiar twang of Indian bows. There were showers of sparks and little
streaks of fire with long tails like comets winged their parabolic flight toward the cabin.
Falling short they hissed and sputtered in the grass. Jonathan's rifle spoke and one of the
fleeing forms tumbled to the earth. A series of long yells from all around the Fort greeted
this last shot, but not an Indian fired a rifle.

Fire-tipped arrows were now shot at the block-house, but not one took effect, although a few
struck the stockade-fence. Col. Zane had taken the precaution to have the high grass and the
clusters of goldenrod cut down all round the Fort. The wisdom of this course now became evident,
for the wily savages could not crawl near enough to send their fiery arrows on the roof of
the block-house. This attempt failing, the Indians drew back to hatch up some other plot to
burn the Fort.

"Look!" suddenly exclaimed Jonathan.

Far down the road, perhaps five hundred yards from the Fort, a point of light had appeared.
At first it was still, and then it took an odd jerky motion, to this side and to that, up and
down like a jack-o-lantern.

"What the hell?" muttered Col. Zane, sorely puzzled. "Jack, by all that's strange it's getting
bigger."

Sure enough the spark of fire, or whatever it was, grew larger and larger. Col. Zane thought
it might be a light carried by a man on horseback. But if this were true where was the clatter
of the horse's hoofs? On that rocky blur no horse could run noiselessly. It could not be a
horse. Fascinated and troubled by this new mystery which seemed to presage evil to them the
watchers waited with that patience known only to those accustomed to danger. They knew that
whatever it was, it was some satanic stratagem of the savages, and that it would come all too soon.

The light was now zigzagging back and forth across the road, and approaching the Fort with
marvelous rapidity. Now its motion was like the wide swinging of a lighted lantern on a dark
night. A moment more of breathless suspense and the lithe form of an Indian brave could be
seen behind the light. He was running with almost incredible swiftness down the road in the
direction of the Fort. Passing at full speed within seventy-five yards of the stockade-fence
the Indian shot his arrow. Like a fiery serpent flying through the air the missile sped onward
in its graceful flight, going clear over the block-house, and striking with a spiteful thud
the roof of one of the cabins beyond. Unhurt by the volley that was fired at him, the daring
brave passed swiftly out of sight.

Deeds like this were dear to the hearts of the savages. They were deeds which made a warrior
of a brave, and for which honor any Indian would risk his life over and over again. The exultant
yells which greeted this performance proclaimed its success.

The breeze had already fanned the smouldering arrow into a blaze and the dry roof of the cabin
had caught fire and was burning fiercely.

"That infernal redskin is going to do that again," ejaculated Jonathan.

It was indeed true. That same small bright light could be seen coming down the road gathering
headway with every second. No doubt the same Indian, emboldened by his success, and maddened
with that thirst for glory so often fatal to his kind, was again making the effort to fire
the block-house.

The eyes of Col. Zane and his companions were fastened on the light as it came nearer and nearer
with its changing motion. The burning cabin brightened the square before the Fort. The slender,
shadowy figure of the Indian could be plainly seen emerging from the gloom. So swiftly did
he run that he seemed to have wings. Now he was in the full glare of the light. What a magnificent
nerve, what a terrible assurance there was in his action! It seemed to paralyze all. The red
arrow emitted a shower of sparks as it was discharged. This time it winged its way straight
and true and imbedded itself in the roof of the block-house.

Almost at the same instant a solitary rifle shot rang out and the daring warrior plunged headlong,
sliding face downward in the dust of the road, while from the Fort came that demoniac yell
now grown so familiar.

"Wetzel's compliments," muttered Jonathan. "But the mischief is done. Look at that damned burning
arrow. If it doesn't blow out the Fort will go."

The arrow was visible, but it seemed a mere spark. It alternately paled and glowed. One moment
it almost went out, and the next it gleamed brightly. To the men, compelled to look on and
powerless to prevent the burning of the now apparently doomed block-house, that spark was like
the eye of Hell.

"Ho, the Fort," yelled Col. Zane with all the power of his strong lungs. "Ho, Silas, the roof
is on fire!"

Pandemonium had now broken out among the Indians. They could be plainly seen in the red glare
thrown by the burning cabin. It had been a very dry season, the rough shingles were like tinder,
and the inflammable material burst quickly into great flames, lighting up the valley as far
as the edge of the forest. It was an awe-inspiring and a horrible spectacle. Columns of yellow
and black smoke rolled heavenward; every object seemed dyed a deep crimson; the trees assumed
fantastic shapes; the river veiled itself under a red glow. Above the roaring and crackling
of the flames rose the inhuman yelling of the savages. Like demons of the inferno they ran
to and fro, their naked painted bodies shining in the glare. One group of savages formed a
circle and danced hands-around a stump as gayly as a band of school-girls at a May party. They
wrestled with and hugged one another; they hopped, skipped and jumped, and in every possible
way manifested their fiendish joy.

The British took no part in this revelry. To their credit it must be said they kept in the
background as though ashamed of this horrible fire-war on people of their own blood.

"Why don't they fire the cannon?" impatiently said Col. Zane. "Why don't they do something?"

"Perhaps it is disabled, or maybe they are short of ammunition," suggested Jonathan.

"The block-house will burn down before our eyes. Look! The hell-hounds have set fire to the
fence. I see men running and throwing water."

"I see something on the roof of the block-house," cried Jonathan. "There, down towards the
east end of the roof and in the shadow of the chimney. And as I'm a living sinner it's a man
crawling towards that blazing arrow. The Indians have not discovered him yet. He is still in
the shadow. But they'll see him. God! What a nervy thing to do in the face of all those redskins.
It is almost certain death!"

"Yes, and they see him," said the Colonel.

With shrill yells the Indians bounded forward and aimed and fired their rifles at the crouching
figure of the man. Some hid behind the logs they had rolled toward the Fort; others boldly
faced the steady fire now pouring from the portholes. The savages saw in the movement of that
man an attempt to defeat their long-cherished hope of burning the Fort. Seeing he was discovered,
the man did not hesitate, nor did he lose a second. Swiftly he jumped and ran toward the end
of the roof where the burning arrow, now surrounded by blazing shingles, was sticking in the
roof. How he ever ran along that slanting roof and with a pail in his hand was incomprehensible.
In moments like that men become superhuman. It all happened in an instant. He reached the arrow,
kicked it over the wall, and then dashed the bucket of water on the blazing shingles. In that
single instant, wherein his tall form was outlined against the bright light behind him, he
presented the fairest kind of a mark for the Indians. Scores of rifles were levelled and discharged
at him. The bullets pattered like hail on the roof of the block-house, but apparently none
found their mark, for the man ran back and disappeared.

"It was Clarke!" exclaimed Col. Zane. "No one but Clarke has such light hair. Wasn't that a
plucky thing?"

"It has saved the block-house for to-night," answered Jonathan. "See, the Indians are falling
back. They can't stand in the face of that shooting. Hurrah! Look at them fall! It could not
have happened better. The light from the cabin will prevent any more close attacks for an hour
and daylight is near."

CHAPTER XIV.

The sun rose red. Its ruddy rays peeped over the eastern hills, kissed the tree-tops, glinted
along the stony bluffs, and chased away the gloom of night from the valley. Its warm gleams
penetrated the portholes of the Fort and cast long bright shadows on the walls; but it brought
little cheer to the sleepless and almost exhausted defenders. It brought to many of the settlers
the familiar old sailor's maxim: "Redness 'a the morning, sailor's warning." Rising in its
crimson glory the sun flooded the valley, dyeing the river, the leaves, the grass, the stones,
tingeing everything with that awful color which stained the stairs, the benches, the floor,
even the portholes of the block-house.

Historians call this the time that tried men's souls. If it tried the men think what it must
have been to those grand, heroic women. Though they had helped the men load and fire nearly
forty-eight hours; though they had worked without a moment's rest and were now ready to succumb
to exhaustion; though the long room was full of stifling smoke and the sickening odor of burned
wood and powder, and though the row of silent, covered bodies had steadily lengthened, the
thought of giving up never occurred to the women. Death there would be sweet compared to what
it would be at the hands of the redmen.

At sunrise Silas Zane, bare-chested, his face dark and fierce, strode into the bastion which
was connected with the blockhouse. It was a small shedlike room, and with portholes opening
to the river and the forest. This bastion had seen the severest fighting. Five men had been
killed here. As Silas entered four haggard and powder-begrimed men, who were kneeling before
the portholes, looked up at him. A dead man lay in one corner.

"Smith's dead. That makes fifteen," said Silas. "Fifteen out of forty-two, that leaves twenty-seven.
We must hold out. Len, don't expose yourselves recklessly. How goes it at the south bastion?"

"All right. There's been firin' over there all night," answered one of the men. "I guess it's
been kinder warm over that way. But I ain't heard any shootin' for some time."

"Young Bennet is over there, and if the men needed anything they would send him for it," answered
Silas. "I'll send some food and water. Anything else?"

"Powder. We're nigh out of powder," replied the man addressed. "And we might jes as well make
ready fer a high old time. The red devils hadn't been quiet all this last hour fer nothin'."

Silas passed along the narrow hallway which led from the bastion into the main room of the
block-house. As he turned the corner at the head of the stairway he encountered a boy who was
dragging himself up the steps.

"Hello! Who's this? Why, Harry!" exclaimed Silas, grasping the boy and drawing him into the
room. Once in the light Silas saw that the lad was so weak he could hardly stand. He was covered
with blood. It dripped from a bandage wound tightly about his arm; it oozed through a hole
in his hunting shirt, and it flowed from a wound over his temple. The shadow of death was already
stealing over the pallid face, but from the grey eyes shone an indomitable spirit, a spirit
which nothing but death could quench.

"Quick!" the lad panted. "Send men to the south wall. The redskins are breakin' in where the
water from the spring runs under the fence."

"Where are Metzar and the other men?"

"Dead! Killed last night. I've been there alone all night. I kept on shootin'. Then I gets
plugged here under the chin. Knowin' it's all up with me I deserted my post when I heard the
Injuns choppin' on the fence where it was on fire last night. But I only--run--because--they're
gettin' in."

"Wetzel, Bennet, Clarke!" yelled Silas, as he laid the boy on the bench.

Almost as Silas spoke the tall form of the hunter confronted him. Clarke and the other men
were almost as prompt.

"Wetzel, run to the south wall. The Indians are cutting a hole through the fence."

Wetzel turned, grabbed his rifle and an axe and was gone like a flash.

"Sullivan, you handle the men here. Bessie, do what you can for this brave lad. Come, Bennet,
Clarke, we must follow Wetzel," commanded Silas.

Mrs. Zane hastened to the side of the fainting lad. She washed away the blood from the wound
over his temple. She saw that a bullet had glanced on the bone and that the wound was not deep
or dangerous. She unlaced the hunting shirt at the neck and pulled the flaps apart. There on
the right breast, on a line with the apex of the lung, was a horrible gaping wound. A murderous
British slug had passed through the lad. From the hole at every heart-beat poured the dark,
crimson life-tide. Mrs. Zane turned her white face away for a second; then she folded a small
piece of linen, pressed it tightly over the wound, and wrapped a towel round the lad's breast.

"Don't waste time on me. It's all over," he whispered. "Will you call Betty here a minute?"

Betty came, white-faced and horror-stricken. For forty hours she had been living in a maze
of terror. Her movements had almost become mechanical. She had almost ceased to hear and feel.
But the light in the eyes of this dying boy brought her back to the horrible reality of the
present.

"Oh, Harry! Harry! Harry!" was all Betty could whisper.

"I'm goin', Betty. And I wanted--you to say a little prayer for me--and say good-bye to me,"
he panted.

Betty knelt by the bench and tried to pray.

"I hated to run, Betty, but I waited and waited and nobody came, and the Injuns was getting'
in. They'll find dead Injuns in piles out there. I was shootin' fer you, Betty, and every time
I aimed I thought of you."

The lad rambled on, his voice growing weaker and weaker and finally ceasing. The hand which
had clasped Betty's so closely loosened its hold. His eyes closed. Betty thought he was dead,
but no! he still breathed. Suddenly his eyes opened. The shadow of pain was gone. In its place
shone a beautiful radiance.

"Betty, I've cared a lot for you--and I'm dyin'--happy because I've fought fer you--and somethin'
tells me--you'll--be saved. Good-bye." A smile transformed his face and his gray eyes gazed
steadily into hers. Then his head fell back. With a sigh his brave spirit fled.

Hugh Bennet looked once at the pale face of his son, then he ran down the stairs after Silas
and Clarke. When the three men emerged from behind Capt. Boggs' cabin, which was adjacent to
the block-house, and which hid the south wall from their view, they were two hundred feet from
Wetzel. They heard the heavy thump of a log being rammed against the fence; then a splitting
and splintering of one of the six-inch oak planks. Another and another smashing blow and the
lower half of one of the planks fell inwards, leaving an aperture large enough to admit an
Indian. The men dashed forward to the assistance of Wetzel, who stood by the hole with upraised
axe. At the same moment a shot rang out. Bennet stumbled and fell headlong. An Indian had shot
through the hole in the fence. Silas and Alfred sheered off toward the fence, out of line.
When within twenty yards of Wetzel they saw a swarthy-faced and athletic savage squeeze through
the narrow crevice. He had not straightened up before the axe, wielded by the giant hunter,
descended on his head, cracking his skull as if it were an eggshell. The savage sank to the
earth without even a moan. Another savage naked and powerful, slipped in. He had to stoop to
get through. He raised himself, and seeing Wetzel, he tried to dodge the lightning sweep of
the axe. It missed his head, at which it had been aimed, but struck just over the shoulders,
and buried itself in flesh and bone. The Indian uttered an agonizing yell which ended in a
choking, gurgling sound as the blood spurted from his throat. Wetzel pulled the weapon from
the body of his victim, and with the same motion he swung it around. This time the blunt end
met the next Indian's head with a thud like that made by the butcher when he strikes the bullock
to the ground. The Indian's rifle dropped, his tomahawk flew into the air, while his body rolled
down the little embankment into the spring. Another and another Indian met the same fate. Then
two Indians endeavored to get through the aperture. The awful axe swung by those steel arms,
dispatched both of than in the twinkling of an eye. Their bodies stuck in the hole.

Silas and Alfred stood riveted to the spot. 

Hyoscyamus NIGER (Bethlehem).

§ I. - History.

Plant Solanaceae Juss pentandria .-- From monoginia, Linn. Henbane, taken as a general narcotic,
only the authors has received very limited modern properties, and
read, you can not doubt that the ancients used to a greater number
of diseases.

It is likely that the abuse it has been relegated had concluded by
the number of drugs inapplicable, if you fail to specify Hahnemann
use by esperimentales data.

Physiological effects .-- § II.

High doses produced primarily drowsiness and sleepiness. The dream was driving to the opposite
state when it came to awaken, and excitement of the senses developed and intellectual faculties,
well-being and better physical disposition. In other circumstances, even stronger doses have
resulted in a significant depletion of the pulse, paleness face, coldness in the extremities, dimming
of vision, seizures, fainting. In most common cases of poisoning have been observed: dizziness,
drowsiness, delirium cheerful, pupil dilation, hallucination of the senses, gestures, ridiculous,
aphonia, coma, lethargy. At the same time from the first moments of intoxication, are noted
nausea, extremity of the dry throat and mouth, anxiety, epigastric
pain, but later diarrhea, general cooling, extremity weakness, tremors,
pallor, cold sweat, pulse very small and uneven, loss of sensation,
paralysis of the limbs, swelling of face, panic, fainting, and a kind
of suffocation.

It is not logical to try this drug for these purposes alone, and accept their action hipostenizante
by the lack of symptoms flegmásicos.

The weak and medium doses resulting in more symptoms special and more useful, and can be deduced
more elective action henbane and their therapeutic applications.

Few drugs whose symptoms better expresses the three degrees of sharpness, subagudeza and fatigue,
or, to speak accurately about the henbane: 1. º the excitement, 2. No spasm or ataxia, 3. º prostration,
because the drug is only indirectly in the system work circulatory
its action does not extend to the capillaries but by his strength
of concentration in the nerve centers, and one can say that the two
poles of this action is the brain and the capillary system, or perhaps
the brain and nervous extremities.

Henbane, because if it is similar to the deadly nightshade for its elective action in the brain differs
mainly for their lack of direct influence on the blood system, so far Henbane has not, like
belladonna, rubicundeces scarlet skin, blood or orgasm, nor hard and full pulse or hindered
in their development itself offers henbane blemishes skin and swelling in the face, but some
are black, and the other pale or dark, and these characters, together
with its congestion passibility indicate, not an activity of circulation,
but a stagnation of blood in the capillaries.

Examining its pathogenesis, we espressi in various parts of varying degrees of action, as shown
by the following: talkativeness, irritability, envy, now behold have symptoms another significance:
anger, delirium seizures, certain hobbies, and loss, in short, the
knowledge, apathy, clumsiness or muscle weakness that comes rather
from a congestive state asthenic than an active or acute congestion.

Clarke appeared at the moment. He was breathing heavily as though he had run up the stairs,
or was laboring under a powerful emotion. His face was gray.

"I could not find any powder!" he exclaimed. "I searched every nook and corner in Capt. Boggs'
house. There is no powder there."

A brief silence ensued. Everyone in the block-house heard the young man's voice. No one moved.
They all seemed waiting for someone to speak. Finally Silas Zane burst out:

"Not find it? You surely could not have looked well. Capt. Boggs himself told me there were
three kegs of powder in the storeroom. I will go and find it myself."

Alfred did not answer, but sat down on a bench with an odd numb feeling round his heart. He
knew what was coming. He had been in the Captain's house and had seen those kegs of powder.
He knew exactly where they had been. Now they were not on the accustomed shelf, nor at any
other place in the storeroom. While he sat there waiting for the awful truth to dawn on the
garrison, his eyes roved from one end of the room to the other. At last they found what they
were seeking. A young woman knelt before a charcoal fire which she was blowing with a bellows.
It was Betty. Her face was pale and weary, her hair dishevelled, her shapely arms blackened
with charcoal, but notwithstanding she looked calm, resolute, self-contained. Lydia was kneeling
by her side holding a bullet-mould on a block of wood. Betty lifted the ladle from the red
coals and poured the hot metal with a steady hand and an admirable precision. Too much or too
little lead would make an imperfect ball. The little missile had to be just so for those soft-metal,
smooth-bore rifles. Then Lydia dipped the mould in a bucket of water, removed it and knocked
it on the floor. A small, shiny lead bullet rolled out. She rubbed it with a greasy rag and
then dropped it in a jar. For nearly forty hours, without sleep or rest, almost without food,
those brave girls had been at their post.

Silas Zane came running into the room. His face was ghastly, even his lips were white and drawn.

"Sullivan, in God's name, what can we do? The powder is gone!" he cried in a strident voice.

"Gone?" repeated several voices.

"Gone?" echoed Sullivan. "Where?"

"God knows. I found where the kegs stood a few days ago. There were marks in the dust. They
have been moved."

"Perhaps Boggs put them here somewhere," said Sullivan. "We will look."

"No use. No use. We were always careful to keep the powder out of here on account of fire.
The kegs are gone, gone."

"Miller stole them," said Wetzel in his calm voice.

"What difference does that make now?" burst out Silas, turning passionately on the hunter,
whose quiet voice in that moment seemed so unfeeling. "They're gone!"

In the silence which ensued after these words the men looked at each other with slowly whitening
faces. There was no need of words. Their eyes told one another what was coming. The fate which
had overtaken so many border forts was to be theirs. They were lost! And every man thought
not of himself, cared not for himself, but for those innocent children, those brave young girls
and heroic women.

A man can die. He is glorious when he calmly accepts death; but when he fights like a tiger,
when he stands at bay his back to the wall, a broken weapon in his hand, bloody, defiant, game
to the end, then he is sublime. Then he wrings respect from the souls of even his bitterest
foes. Then he is avenged even in his death.

But what can women do in times of war? They help, they cheer, they inspire, and if their cause
is lost they must accept death or worse. Few women have the courage for self-destruction. "To
the victor belong the spoils," and women have ever been the spoils of war.

No wonder Silas Zane and his men weakened in that moment. With only a few charges for their
rifles and none for the cannon how could they hope to hold out against the savages? Alone they
could have drawn their tomahawks and have made a dash through the lines of Indians, but with
the women and the children that was impossible.

"Wetzel, what can we do? For God's sake, advise us!" said Silas hoarsely. "We cannot hold the
Fort without powder. We cannot leave the women here. We had better tomahawk every woman in
the block-house than let her fall into the hands of Girty."

"Send someone fer powder," answered Wetzel.

"Do you think it possible," said Silas quickly, a ray of hope lighting up his haggard features.
"There's plenty of powder in Eb's cabin. Whom shall we send? Who will volunteer?"

Three men stepped forward, and others made a movement.

"They'd plug a man full of lead afore he'd get ten foot from the gate," said Wetzel. "I'd go
myself, but it wouldn't do no good. Send a boy, and one as can run like a streak."

"There are no lads big enough to carry a keg of powder. Harry Bennett might go," said Silas.
"How is he, Bessie?"

"He is dead," answered Mrs. Zane.

Wetzel made a motion with his hands and turned away. A short, intense silence followed this
indication of hopelessness from him. The women understood, for some of them covered their faces,
while others sobbed.

"I will go."

It was Betty's voice, and it rang clear and vibrant throughout the room. The miserable women
raised their drooping heads, thrilled by that fresh young voice. The men looked stupefied.
Clarke seemed turned to stone. Wetzel came quickly toward her.

"Impossible!" said Sullivan.

Silas Zane shook his head as if the idea were absurd. Peace Pactóse end,
and if they returned to start wars, have not been on between the three barons, or by the conquest
of a source, but between powerful rulers and the possession of immense areas with mountains,
rivers, forests and crowded cities. And not one to destroy another poorly armed people, but
hundreds of thousands of men, armed with the most scientific means destruction which collide and
destroy each other. Surely humanity progresses, but seeing as dreadful conflict, we must doubt
sometimes.

So people seem blissful removed in the high valleys that have never suffered the evils of war,
at least, in spite of the ebb and flow of hosts in up, ended up early to retain its independence.
Quite a few mountain villages, protected by huge masses of rock attached to one another, have had
the happiness to remain Free. You know you should not only the heroism of their hearts, to the strength
of their arms, to the union of the wills have not been enslaved by its powerful neighbors. Also
have to thank the great Alps, those were the columns that have very firm defended the entrance
to the temple.

CHAPTER XVIII

The idiot # #

Alongside these strong men, of those
brave and penetrating chest solid look steadily climbing over the
rocks, foul arrástranse mass of living flesh, idiots Mumps slope.

And many of these masses there can not even crawl, remain stink sitting on chairs, moving
to one side to another body and head, hanging down the by the sticky slime rags. These beings
do not know how to walk, and some of them have failed learn the essential art of taking food to
the mouth: it feeds them, they are prime, and when they notice that the ingested food down into
the stomach, contented grunting exhale light. These are the last representatives of humanity,
"whose face was created to look the stars. "What saved enormous range between the ideal head
of the Pythian Apollo and the poor cretin, eyes, no eyes and laughter that seems to grin! Is even
more beautiful head reptile, because it corresponds to their type, and do not expect to see
it otherwise, while face of shockingly stupid is a degenerate. Although a man like us from afar,
not even the intelligence of the animal appears on her face.

For more pain, feelings are revealed rudimentary in being unhappy, not always are good. Some idiots
are lousy: gnash their teeth, throw ferocious roar, make angry gestures
with the clumsy arms, kick the ground, and if not prevented, would
eat meat and would drink the blood of those who selflessly care: does
not matter that anger to the mountain, good and candid.

Why not have stopped giving to the poor idiots that name of idiots, of Cresti or innocence, imagining
that these people, unable to reason their actions and come to the understanding of evil, enjoy
the privilege of having no sin consciousness. Christians from the cradle to the force have to
go straight to heaven.


Betty obeyed Wetzel's instructions to the letter. She ran easily and not at all hurriedly,
and was as cool as if there had not been an Indian within miles.

Col. Zane had seen the gate open and Betty come forth. When she bounded up the steps he flung
open that door and she ran into his arms.

"Betts, for God's sake! What's this?" he cried.

"We are out of powder. Empty a keg of powder into a table cloth. Quick! I've not a second to
lose," she answered, at the same time slipping off her outer skirt. She wanted nothing to hinder
that run for the block-house.

Jonathan Zane heard Betty's first words and disappeared into the magazine-room. He came out
with a keg in his arms. With one blow of an axe he smashed in the top of the keg. In a twinkling
a long black stream of the precious stuff was piling up in a little hill in the center of the
table. Then the corners of the table cloth were caught up, turned and twisted, and the bag
of powder was thrown over Betty's shoulder.

"Brave girl, so help me God, you are going to do it!" cried Col. Zane, throwing open the door.
"I know you can. Run as you never ran in all your life."

Like an arrow sprung from a bow Betty flashed past the Colonel and out on the green. Scarcely
ten of the long hundred yards had been covered by her flying feet when a roar of angry shouts
and yells warned Betty that the keen-eyed savages saw the bag of powder and now knew they had
been deceived by a girl. The cracking of rifles began at a point on the bluff nearest Col.
Zane's house, and extended in a half circle to the eastern end of the clearing. The leaden
messengers of Death whistled past Betty. They sped before her and behind her, scattering pebbles
in her path, striking up the dust, and ploughing little furrows in the ground. A quarter of
the distance covered! Betty had passed the top of the knoll now and she was going down the
gentle slope like the wind. None but a fine marksman could have hit that small, flitting figure.
The yelling and screeching had become deafening. The reports of the rifles blended in a roar.
Yet above it all Betty heard Wetzel's stentorian yell. It lent wings to her feet. Half the
distance covered! A hot, stinging pain shot through Betty's arm, but she heeded it not. The
bullets were raining about her. They sang over her head; hissed close to her ears, and cut
the grass in front of her; they pattered like hail on the stockade-fence, but still untouched,
unharmed, the slender brown figure sped toward the gate. Three-fourths of the distance covered!
A tug at the flying hair, and a long, black tress cut off by a bullet, floated away on the
breeze. Betty saw the big gate swing; she saw the tall figure of the hunter; she saw her brother.
Only a few more yards! On! On! On! A blinding red mist obscured her sight. She lost the opening
in the fence, but unheeding she rushed on. Another second and she stumbled; she felt herself
grasped by eager arms; she heard the gate slam and the iron bar shoot into place; then she
felt and heard no more.

Silas Zane bounded up the stairs with a doubly precious burden in his arms. A mighty cheer
greeted his entrance. It aroused Alfred Clarke, who had bowed his head on the bench and had
lost all sense of time and place. What were the women sobbing and crying over? To whom belonged
that white face? Of course, it was the face of the girl he loved. The face of the girl who
had gone to her death. And he writhed in his agony.

Then something wonderful happened. A warm, living flush swept over that pale face. The eyelids
fluttered; they opened, and the dark eyes, radiant, beautiful, gazed straight into Alfred's.

Still Alfred could not believe his eyes. That pale face and the wonderful eyes belonged to
the ghost of his sweetheart. They had come back to haunt him. Then he heard a voice.

"O-h! but that brown place burns!"

Alfred saw a bare and shapely arm. Its beauty was marred by a cruel red welt. He heard that
same sweet voice laugh and cry together. Then he came back to life and hope. With one bound
he sprang to a porthole.

"God, what a woman!" he said between his teeth, as he thrust the rifle forward.

It was indeed not a time for inaction. The Indians, realizing they had been tricked and had
lost a golden opportunity, rushed at the Fort with renewed energy. They attacked from all sides
and with the persistent fury of savages long disappointed in their hopes. They were received
with a scathing, deadly fire. Bang! roared the cannon, and the detachment of savages dropped
their ladders and fled. The little "bull dog" was turned on its swivel and directed at another
rush of Indians. Bang! and the bullets, chainlinks, and bits of iron ploughed through the ranks
of the enemy. The Indians never lived who could stand in the face of well-aimed cannon-shot.
They fell back. The settlers, inspired, carried beyond themselves by the heroism of a girl,
fought as they had never fought before. Every shot went to a redskin's heart, impelled by the
powder for which a brave girl had offered her life, guided by hands and arms of iron, and aimed
by eyes as fixed and stern as Fate, every bullet shed the life-blood of a warrior.

Slowly and sullenly the red men gave way before that fire. Foot by foot they retired. Girty
was seen no more. Fire, the Shawnee chief, lay dead in the road almost in the same spot where
two days before his brother chief, Red Fox, had bit the dust. The British had long since retreated.

When night came the exhausted and almost famished besiegers sought rest and food.

The moon came out clear and beautiful, as if ashamed at her traitor's part of the night before,
and brightened up the valley, bathing the Fort, the river, and the forest in her silver light.

Shortly after daybreak the next morning the Indians, despairing of success, held a pow-wow.
While they were grouped in plain view of the garrison, and probably conferring over the question
of raising the siege, the long, peculiar whoop of an Indian spy, who had been sent out to watch
for the approach of a relief party, rang out. This seemed a signal for retreat. Scarcely had
the shrill cry ceased to echo in the hills when the Indians and the British, abandoning their
dead, moved rapidly across the river.

After a short interval a mounted force was seen galloping up the creek road. It proved to be
Capt. Boggs, Swearengen, and Williamson with seventy men. Great was the rejoicing. Capt. Boggs
had expected to find only the ashes of the Fort. And the gallant little garrison, although
saddened by the loss of half its original number, rejoiced that it had repulsed the united
forces of braves and British.

CHAPTER XV.

Peace and quiet reigned ones more at Ft. Henry. Before the glorious autumn days had waned,
the settlers had repaired the damage done to their cabins, and many of them were now occupied
with the fall plowing. Never had the Fort experienced such busy days. Many new faces were seen
in the little meeting-house. Pioneers from Virginia, from Ft. Pitt, and eastward had learned
that Fort Henry had repulsed the biggest force of Indians and soldiers that Governor Hamilton
and his minions could muster. Settlers from all points along the river were flocking to Col.
Zane's settlement. New cabins dotted the hillside; cabins and barns in all stages of construction
could be seen. The sounds of hammers, the ringing stroke of the axe, and the crashing down
of mighty pines or poplars were heard all day long.

Col. Zane sat oftener and longer than ever before in his favorite seat on his doorstep. On
this evening he had just returned from a hard day in the fields, and sat down to rest a moment
before going to supper. A few days previous Isaac Zane and Myeerah had come to the settlement.
Myeerah brought a treaty of peace signed by Tarhe and the other Wyandot chieftains. The once
implacable Huron was now ready to be friendly with the white people. Col. Zane and his brothers
signed the treaty, and Betty, by dint of much persuasion, prevailed on Wetzel to bury the hatchet
with the Hurons. So Myeerah's love, like the love of many other women, accomplished more than
years of war and bloodshed.

The genial and happy smile never left Col. Zane's face, and as he saw the well-laden rafts
coming down the river, and the air of liveliness and animation about the growing settlement,
his smile broadened into one of pride and satisfaction. The prophecy that he had made twelve
years before was fulfilled. His dream was realized. The wild, beautiful spot where he had once
built a bark shack and camped half a year without seeing a white man was now the scene of a
bustling settlement; and he believed he would live to see that settlement grow into a prosperous
city. He did not think of the thousands of acres which would one day make him a wealthy man.
He was a pioneer at heart; he had opened up that rich new country; he had conquered all obstacles,
and that was enough to make him content.

"Papa, when shall I be big enough to fight bars and bufflers and Injuns?" asked Noah, stopping
in his play and straddling his father's knee.

"My boy, did you not have Indians enough a short time ago?"

"But, papa, I did not get to see any. I heard the shooting and yelling. Sammy was afraid, but
I wasn't. I wanted to look out of the little holes, but they locked us up in the dark room."

"If that boy ever grows up to be like Jonathan or Wetzel it will be the death of me," said
the Colonel's wife, who had heard the lad's chatter.

"Don't worry, Bessie. When Noah grows to be a man the Indians will be gone."

Col. Zane heard the galloping of a horse and looking up saw Clarke coming down the road on
his black thoroughbred. The Colonel rose and walked out to the hitching-block, where Clarke
had reined in his fiery steed.

"Ah, Alfred. Been out for a ride?"

"Yes, I have been giving Roger a little exercise."

"That's a magnificent animal. I never get tired watching him move. He's the best bit of horseflesh
on the river. By the way, we have not seen much of you since the siege. Of course you have
been busy. Getting ready to put on the harness, eh? Well, that's what we want the young men
to do. Come over and see us."

"I have been trying to come. You know how it is with me--about Betty, I mean. Col. Zane, I--I
love her. That's all."

"Yes, I know, Alfred, and I don't wonder at your fears. But I have always liked you, and now
I guess it's about time for me to put a spoke in your wheel of fortune. If Betty cares for
you--and I have a sneaking idea she does--I will give her to you."

"I have nothing. I gave up everything when I left home."

"My lad, never mind about that," said the Colonel, laying his hand on Clarke's knee. "We don't
need riches. I have so often said that we need nothing out here on the border but honest hearts
and strong, willing hands. These you have. That is enough for me and for my people, and as
for land, why, I have enough for an army of young men. I got my land cheap. That whole island
there I bought from Cornplanter. You can have that island or any tract of land along the river.
Some day I shall put you at the head of my men. It will take you years to cut that road through
to Maysville. Oh, I have plenty of work for you."

"Col. Zane, I cannot thank you," answered Alfred, with emotion. "I shall try to merit your
friendship and esteem. Will you please tell your sister I shall come over in the morning and
beg to see her alone."

"That I will, Alfred. Goodnight."

Col. Zane strode across his threshold with a happy smile on his face. He loved to joke and
tease, and never lost an opportunity.

"Things seem to be working out all right. Now for some fun with Her Highness," he said to himself.

As the Colonel surveyed the pleasant home scene he felt he had nothing more to wish for. The
youngsters were playing with a shaggy little pup which had already taken Tige's place in their
fickle affections. His wife was crooning a lullaby as she gently rocked the cradle to and fro.
A wonderful mite of humanity peacefully slumbered in that old cradle. Annie was beginning to
set the table for the evening meal. Isaac lay with a contented smile on his face, fast asleep
on the couch, where, only a short time before, he had been laid bleeding and almost dead. Betty
was reading to Myeerah, whose eyes were rapturously bright as she leaned her head against her
sister and listened to the low voice.

"Well, Betty, what do you think?" said Col. Zane, stopping before the girls.

"What do I think?" retorted Betty. "Why, I think you are very rude to interrupt me. I am reading
to Myeerah her first novel."

"I have a very important message for you."

"For me? What! From whom?"

"Guess."

Betty ran through a list of most of her acquaintances, but after each name her brother shook
his head.

"Oh, well, I don't care," she finally said. The color in her cheeks had heightened noticeably.

"Very well. If you do not care, I will say nothing more," said Col. Zane.

At this juncture Annie called them to supper. Later, when Col. Zane sat on the doorstep smoking,
Betty came and sat beside him with her head resting against his shoulder. The Colonel smoked
on in silence. Presently the dusky head moved restlessly.

"Eb, tell me the message," whispered Betty.

"Message? What message?" asked Col. Zone. "What are you talking about?"

"Do not tease--not now. Tell me." There was an undercurrent of wistfulness in Betty's voice
which touched the kindhearted brother.

"Well, to-day a certain young man asked me if he could relieve me of the responsibility of
looking after a certain young lady."

"Oh----"

"Wait a moment. I told him I would be delighted."

"Eb, that was unkind."

"Then he asked me to tell her he was coming over to-morrow morning to fix it up with her."

"Oh, horrible!" cried Betty. "Were those the words he used?"

"Betts, to tell the honest truth, he did not say much of anything. He just said: 'I love her,'
and his eyes blazed."

Betty uttered a half articulate cry and ran to her room. Her heart was throbbing. What could
she do? She felt that if she looked once into her lover's eyes she would have no strength.
How dared she allow herself to be so weak! Yet she knew this was the end. She could deceive
him no longer. For she felt a stir in her heart, stronger than all, beyond all resistance,
an exquisite agony, the sweet, blind, tumultuous exultation of the woman who loves and is loved.

      * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

"Bess, what do you think?" said Col. Zane, going into the kitchen next morning, after he had
returned from the pasture. "Clarke just came over and asked for Betty. I called her. She came
down looking as sweet and cool as one of the lilies out by the spring. She said: 'Why, Mr.
Clarke, you are almost a stranger. I am pleased to see you. Indeed, we are all very glad to
know you have recovered from your severe burns.' She went on talking like that for all the
world like a girl who didn't care a snap for him. And she knows as well as I do. Not only that,
she has been actually breaking her heart over him all these months. How did she do it? Oh,
you women beat me all hollow!"

"Would you expect Betty to fall into his arms?" asked the Colonel's worthy spouse, indignantly.

"Not exactly. But she was too cool, too friendly. Poor Alfred looked as if he hadn't slept.
He was nervous and scared to death. When Betty ran up stairs I put a bug in Alfred's ear. He'll
be all right now, if he follows my advice."

"Humph! What did Colonel Ebenezer Zane tell him?" asked Bessie, in disgust.

"Oh, not much. I simply told him not to lose his nerve; that a woman never meant 'no'; that
she often says it only to be made say 'yes.' And I ended up with telling him if she got a little
skittish, as thoroughbreds do sometimes, to try a strong arm. That was my way."

"Col. Zane, if my memory does not fail me, you were as humble and beseeching as the proudest
girl could desire."

"I beseeching? Never!"

"I hope Alfred's wooing may go well. I like him very much. But I'm afraid. Betty has such a
spirit that it is quite likely she will refuse him for no other reason than that he built his
cabin before he asked her."

"Nonsense. He asked her long ago. Never fear, Bess, my sister will come back as meek as a lamb."

Meanwhile Betty and Alfred were strolling down the familiar path toward the river. The October
air was fresh with a suspicion of frost. The clear notes of a hunter's horn came floating down
from the hills. A flock of wild geese had alighted on the marshy ground at the end of the island
where they kept up a continual honk! honk! The brown hills, the red forest, and the yellow
fields were now at the height of their autumnal beauty. Soon the November north wind would
thrash the trees bare, and bow the proud heads of the daisies and the goldenrod; but just now
they flashed in the sun, and swayed back and forth in all their glory.

"I see you limp. Are you not entirely well?" Betty was saying.

"Oh, I am getting along famously, thank you," said Alfred. "This one foot was quite severely
burned and is still tender."

"You have had your share of injuries. I heard my brother say you had been wounded three times
within a year."

"Four times."

"Jonathan told of the axe wound; then the wound Miller gave you, and finally the burns. These
make three, do they not?"

"Yes, but you see, all three could not be compared to the one you forgot to mention."

"Let us hurry past here," said Betty, hastening to change the subject. "This is where you had
the dreadful fight with Miller."

"As Miller did go to meet Girty, and as he did not return to the Fort with the renegade, we
must believe he is dead. 

Spellbound sti Setoc slave made his most intimate friend, and I could not live without him, as
he had happened to the king of Babylon, Zadig was the fortune that Setoc was not married. Discovered
this in such great love, great honesty and sound reason, and felt to see that worship the army Heaven,
I mean the sun, moon and stars, as was customary in ancient Arabia; and spoke at times of this cult,
but with much reserve. One day I finally told him that they were some bodies like the others,
and no more creditors to his veneration as a tree or a rock. Yes such Setoc said, they are
eternal beings that make us a thousand property, animate nature, manage the stations, apart
from as far away from us that can not fail of reverence. Do you find more profit, "replied
Zadig, the waves of the Red Sea, which leads your gender to India: and why not be as old as
the stars? If you worship As far from you, also you have to worship the land of the Gangarosa,
which is after the world. No, he said Setoc, but the brightness of stars is therefore that
it is necessary to worship. That night Zadig lighted many axes in the shop where he dined with
Setoc, and after presented his master, knelt before the candles burning, saying, Eternal and
bright lights, Sedman favorable. These words, he sat at the table without Setoc to watch. What
are you doing? told him the admiration. What you, "replied Zadig; love these lights, and I
ignore her master and mine. Setoc understood the depth of the fable, housed in soul wisdom
of his slave, I leave to tax homage to the creatures, and worshiped the Self eternal that has
formed.

Saudi queen then at a horrible style, whose origin came from Scythia, and established then in the
Indies influx of Brahmans, threatened throughout the East. Ebenezer says we should not grieve for those who are gone;
they were heroic; they saved the Fort. He says too, that we shall never again be troubled by
Indians. Therefore let us forget and be happy. I have forgotten Miller. You can afford to do
the same."

"Yes, I forgive him." Then, after a long silence, Alfred continued, "Will you go down to the
old sycamore?"

Down the winding path they went. Coming to a steep place in the rocky bank Alfred jumped down
and then turned to help Betty. But she avoided his gaze, pretended to not see his outstretched
hands, and leaped lightly down beside him. He looked at her with perplexity and anxiety in
his eyes. Before he could speak she ran on ahead of him and climbed down the bank to the pool.
He followed slowly, thoughtfully. The supreme moment had come. He knew it, and somehow he did
not feel the confidence the Colonel had inspired in him. It had been easy for him to think
of subduing this imperious young lady; but when the time came to assert his will he found he
could not remember what he had intended to say, and his feelings were divided between his love
for her and the horrible fear that he should lose her.

When he reached the sycamore tree he found her sitting behind it with a cluster of yellow daisies
in her lap. Alfred gazed at her, conscious that all his hopes of happiness were dependent on
the next few words that would issue from her smiling lips. The little brown hands, which were
now rather nervously arranging the flowers, held more than his life.

"Are they not sweet?" asked Betty, giving him a fleeting glance. "We call them 'black-eyed
Susans.' Could anything be lovelier than that soft, dark brown?"

"Yes," answered Alfred, looking into her eyes.

"But--but you are not looking at my daisies at all," said Betty, lowering her eyes.

"No, I am not," said Alfred. Then suddenly: "A year ago this very day we were here."

"Here? Oh, yes, I believe I do remember. It was the day we came in my canoe and had such fine
fishing."

"Is that all you remember?"

"I can recollect nothing in particular. It was so long ago."

"I suppose you will say you had no idea why I wanted you to come to this spot in particular."

"I supposed you simply wanted to take a walk, and it is very pleasant here."

"Then Col. Zane did not tell you?" demanded Alfred. Receiving no reply he went on.

"Did you read my letter?"

"What letter?"

"The letter old Sam should have given you last fall. Did you read it?"

"Yes," answered Betty, faintly.

"Did your brother tell you I wanted to see you this morning?"

"Yes, he told me, and it made me very angry," said Betty, raising her head. There was a bright
red spot in each cheek. "You--you seemed to think you--that I--well--I did not like it."

"I think I understand; but you are entirely wrong. I have never thought you cared for me. My
wildest dreams never left me any confidence. Col. Zane and Wetzel both had some deluded notion
that you cared--"

"But they had no right to say that or to think it," said Betty, passionately. She sprang to
her feet, scattering the daisies over the grass. "For them to presume that I cared for you
is absurd. I never gave them any reason to think so, for--for I--I don't."

"Very well, then, there is nothing more to be said," answered Alfred, in a voice that was calm
and slightly cold. "I'm sorry if you have been annoyed. I have been mad, of course, but I promise
you that you need fear no further annoyance from me. Come, I think we should return to the house."

And he turned and walked slowly up the path. He had taken perhaps a dozen steps when she called
him.

"Mr. Clarke, come back." I did not understand very well the wonderful niceties
he said the Greek, but I am sure that also supports a superior of whom is dependent form and matter.
The Greek, which means concluded, he said that he had understood perfectly Zadig his idea.


"Why--why are you in such a hurry to go?"

"I have learned what I wanted to know. And after that I do not imagine I would be very agreeable.
I am going back. Are you coming?"

"I did not mean quite what I said," whispered Betty.

"Then what did you mean?" asked Alfred, in a stern voice.

"I don't know. Please don't speak so."

"Betty, forgive my harshness. Can you expect a man to feel as I do and remain calm? You know
I love you. You must not trifle any longer. You must not fight any longer."

"But I can't help fighting."

"Look at me," said Alfred, taking her hands. In the
formation of those could not mediate the difficulties, risks and work, which in these, being
in the center of Spain, and not lacking in terms of human needs for the preservation of life
and relief of mind in the rational society. Quite the contrary were the proportions of these establishments.
Salted meat, bad bacon, miniestra minced, and meals usually stale have been the mainstay of its
individuals. Then he slowly bent his head.

Betty saw his intention, closed her eyes and whispered.

"Alfred, please don't--it's not fair--I beg of you--Oh!"

That kiss was Betty's undoing. She uttered a strange little cry. Then her dark head found a
hiding place over his heart, and her slender form, which a moment before had resisted so fiercely,
sank yielding into his embrace.

"Betty, do you dare tell me now that you do not care for me?" Alfred whispered into the dusky
hair which rippled over his breast.

Betty was brave even in her surrender. Her hands moved slowly upward along his arms, slipped
over his shoulders, and clasped round his neck. Then she lifted a flushed and tearstained face
with tremulous lips and wonderful shining eyes.

"Alfred, I do love you--with my whole heart I love you. I never knew until now."

The hours flew apace. The prolonged ringing of the dinner bell brought the lovers back to earth,
and to the realization that the world held others than themselves. Slowly they climbed the
familiar path, but this time as never before. They walked hand in hand. From the blur they
looked back. They wanted to make sure they were not dreaming. The water rushed over the fall
more musically than ever before; the white patches of foam floated round and round the shady
pool; the leaves of the sycamore rustled cheerily in the breeze. On a dead branch a wood-pecker
hammered industriously.

"Before we get out of sight of that dear old tree I want to make a confession," said Betty,
as she stood before Alfred. She was pulling at the fringe on his hunting-coat.

"You need not make confessions to me."

"But this was dreadful; it preys on my conscience."

"Very well, I will be your judge. Your punishment shall be slight."

"One day when you were lying unconscious from your wound, Bessie sent me to watch you. I nursed
you for hours; and--and--do not think badly of me--I--I kissed you."

"My darling," cried the enraptured young man.

When they at last reached the house they found Col. Zane on the doorstep.

"Where on earth have you been?" he said. "Wetzel was here. He said he would not wait to see
you. There he goes up the hill. He is behind that laurel." I think that this is not no sin, nor take the little girl. And if
you sin, do not tell me, Julianciño! ... Resolution is irrevocable. You will me, because one does
not manage to make my plan. Can I accompany you?

Julian wanted to object to something, what?

"Hello, there!" exclaimed a gay voice. The lovers turned to see the smiling face of Isaac,
and over his shoulder Myeerah's happy face beaming on them. "Alfred, you are a lucky dog. You
can thank Myeerah and me for this; because if I had not taken to the river and nearly drowned
myself to give you that opportunity you would not wear that happy face to-day. Blush away,
Betts, it becomes you mightily."

"Bessie, here they are!" cried Col. Zane, in his hearty voice. "She is tamed at last. No excuses,
Alfred, in to dinner you go."

Col. Zane pushed the young people up the steps before him, and stopping on the threshold while
he knocked the ashes from his pipe, he smiled contentedly.

AFTERWORD.

Betty lived all her after life on the scene of her famous exploit. She became a happy wife
and mother. When she grew to be an old lady, with her grandchildren about her knee, she delighted
to tell them that when a girl she had run the gauntlet of the Indians. Is it raining or sunny?

- Do you spend a lot of people on the street?

Answers woman.

- That is always thinking of shrews.

As the clothes were being cleaned of dust, the girls are proved. A Manolita I sat amazed at the colonel's
uniform, on the masculine type. Rita was a charm Silk dulleta Verdegay
the grandmother. Carmen left only consented to a bizarre motif, a
triple plume, that back when it was released called "The Three Powers. His brother Jonathan and the Indian guide, Tomepomehala,
rendered valuable aid in blazing out the path through the wilderness. This road, famous for
many years as Zane's Trace, opened the beautiful Ohio valley to the ambitious pioneer. For
this service Congress granted Col. Zane the privilege of locating military warrants upon three
sections of land, each a square mile in extent, which property the government eventually presented
to him. Col. Zane was the founder of Wheeling, Zanesville, Martin's Ferry, and Bridgeport.
He died in 1811.

Isaac Zane received from the government a patent of ten thousand acres of land on Mad river.
He established his home in the center of this tract, where he lived with the Wyandot until
his death. A white settlement sprang up, prospered, and grew, and today it is the thriving
city of Zanesfield.

Jonathan Zane settled down after peace was declared with the Indians, found himself a wife,
and eventually became an influential citizen. However, he never lost his love for the wild
woods. At times he would take down the old rifle and disappear for two or three days. He always
returned cheerful and happy from these lonely hunts.

Wetzel alone did not take kindly to the march of civilization; but then he was a hunter, not
a pioneer. He kept his word of peace with his old enemies, the Hurons, though he never abandoned
his wandering and vengeful quests after the Delawares.

As the years passed Wetzel grew more silent and taciturn. From time to time he visited Ft.
Henry, and on these visits he spent hours playing with Betty's children. Metebaza! ... Fea! ... Feona! ... Chula! ...

At being insulted in this way could not help Eulalia jumped like a beast on his brother, giving this
spurt of hair, the wail of Henry, to feel, did rise again afraid
to present.

Wonderful to relate his long, black hair never adorned the walls of an Indian's lodge, where
a warrior might point with grim pride and say: "No more does the Deathwind blow over the hills
and vales." We could tell of how his keen eye once again saw Wingenund over the sights of his
fatal rifle, and how he was once again a prisoner in the camp of that lifelong foe, but that's
another story, which, perhaps, we may tell some day.

To-day the beautiful city of Wheeling rises on the banks of the Ohio, where the yells of the
Indians once blanched the cheeks of the pioneers. The broad, winding river rolls on as of yore;
it alone remains unchanged. What were Indians and pioneers, forts and cities to it? Eons of
time before human beings lived it flowed slowly toward the sea, and ages after men and their
works are dust, it will roll on placidly with its eternal scheme of nature.

Upon the island still stand noble beeches, oaks, and chestnuts--trees that long ago have covered
up their bullet-scars, but they could tell, had they the power to speak, many a wild thrilling
tale. Beautiful parks and stately mansions grace the island; and polished equipages roll over
the ground that once knew naught save the soft tread of the deer and the moccasin. At one moment, however, that by chance
or by magnetic attraction found their eyes. And could no longer. Another stream of laughter,
the beans scattered on the table, the faces of the guests returned back to him.
 The grapevines and wild rose-bushes still cluster round
the cavern-entrance, where, long ago, the wily savage was wont to lie in wait for the settler,
lured there by the false turkey-call. The boys visit the cave on Saturday afternoons and play
"Injuns."

Not long since the writer spent a quiet afternoon there, listening to the musical flow of the
brook, and dreaming of those who had lived and loved, fought and died by that stream one hundred
and twenty years ago. The city with its long blocks of buildings, its spires and bridges, faded
away, leaving the scene as it was in the days of Fort Henry--unobscured by smoke, the river
undotted by pulling boats, and everywhere the green and verdant forest. Julian is still there, stuck, powerless, overwhelmed by a mixture of wonder and gratitude
to Providence, who can not reason, but he overpowers .... The body is face to earth, no matter:
Julian has recognized Primitivo, is himself.

And as the writer awoke to the realities of life, that his dreams were of long ago, he was
saddened by the thought that the labor of the pioneer is ended; his faithful, heroic wife's
work is done. That beautiful country, which their sacrifices made ours, will ever be a monument
to them.

Sad, too, is the thought that the poor Indian is unmourned. He is almost forgotten; he is in
the shadow; his songs are sung; no more will he sing to his dusky bride: his deeds are done;
no more will he boast of his all-conquering arm or of his speed like the Northwind; no more
will his heart bound at the whistle of the stag, for he sleeps in the shade of the oaks, under
the moss and the ferns.

