I find still another account darkly insinuated in some highly scurrilous and abusive verses,
of which I have an original copy. They are docketed as being written "Upon the late Viscount
Stair and his family, by Sir William Hamilton of Whitelaw. The marginals by William Dunlop,
writer in Edinburgh, a son of the Laird of Househill, and nephew to the said Sir William Hamilton."
There was a bitter and personal quarrel and rivalry betwixt the author of this libel, a name
which it richly deserves, and Lord President Stair; and the lampoon, which is written with
much more malice than art, bears the following motto:

Stair's neck, mind, wife, songs, grandson, and the rest, Are wry, false, witch, pests, parricide,
possessed.

This malignant satirist, who calls up all the misfortunes of the family, does not forget the
fatal bridal of Baldoon. He seems, though his verses are as obscure as unpoetical, to intimate
that the violence done to the bridegroom was by the intervention of the foul fiend, to whom
the young lady had resigned herself, in case she should break her contract with her first lover.
His hypothesis is inconsistent with the account given in the note upon Law's Memorials, but
easily reconcilable to the family tradition.

     In all Stair's offspring we no difference know,
     They do the females as the males bestow;
     So he of one of his daughters' marriages gave the ward,
     Like a true vassal, to Glenluce's Laird;
     He knew what she did to her master plight,
     If she her faith to Rutherfurd should slight,
     Which, like his own, for greed he broke outright.
     Nick did Baldoon's posterior right deride,
     And, as first substitute, did seize the bride;
     Whate'er he to his mistress did or said,
     He threw the bridegroom from the nuptial bed,
     Into the chimney did so his rival maul,
     His bruised bones ne'er were cured but by the fall.

One of the marginal notes ascribed to William Dunlop applies to the above lines. "She had betrothed
herself to Lord Rutherfoord under horrid imprecations, and afterwards married Baldoon, his
nevoy, and her mother was the cause of her breach of faith."

The same tragedy is alluded to in the following couplet and note:

What train of curses that base brood pursues, When the young nephew weds old uncle's spouse.

The note on the word "uncle" explains it as meaning "Rutherfoord, who should have married the
Lady Baldoon, was Baldoon's uncle." The poetry of this satire on Lord Stair and his family
was, as already noticed, written by Sir William Hamilton of Whitelaw, a rival of Lord Stair
for the situation of President of the Court of Session; a person much inferior to that great
lawyer in talents, and equally ill-treated by the calumny or just satire of his contemporaries
as an unjust and partial judge. Some of the notes are by that curious and laborious antiquary,
Robert Milne, who, as a virulent Jacobite, willingly lent a hand to blacken the family of Stair.

Another poet of the period, with a very different purpose, has left an elegy, in which he darkly
hints at and bemoans the fate of the ill-starred young person, whose very uncommon calamity
Whitelaw, Dunlop, and Milne thought a fitting subject for buffoonery and ribaldry. This bard
of milder mood was Andrew Symson, before the Revolution minister of Kirkinner, in Galloway,
and after his expulsion as an Episcopalian following the humble occupation of a printer in
Edinburgh. He furnished the family of Baldoon, with which he appears to have been intimate,
with an elegy on the tragic event in their family. In this piece he treats the mournful occasion
of the bride's death with mysterious solemnity.

The verses bear this title, "On the unexpected death of the virtuous Lady Mrs. Janet Dalrymple,
Lady Baldoon, younger," and afford us the precise dates of the catastrophe, which could not
otherwise have been easily ascertained. "Nupta August 12. Domum Ducta August 24. Obiit September
12. Sepult. September 30, 1669." The form of the elegy is a dialogue betwixt a passenger and
a domestic servant. The first, recollecting that he had passed that way lately, and seen all
around enlivened by the appearances of mirth and festivity, is desirous to know what had changed
so gay a scene into mourning.

Mr. Symson also poured forth his elegiac strains upon the fate of the widowed bridegroom, on
which subject, after a long and querulous effusion, the poet arrives at the sound conclusion,
that if Baldoon had walked on foot, which it seems was his general custom, he would have escaped
perishing by a fall from horseback. As the work in which it occurs is so scarce as almost to
be unique, and as it gives us the most full account of one of the actors in this tragic tale
which we have rehearsed, we will, at the risk of being tedious, insert some short specimens
of Mr. Symson's composition. It is entitled:

"A Funeral Elegie, occasioned by the sad and much lamented death of that worthily respected,
and very much accomplished gentleman, David Dunbar, younger, of Baldoon, only son and apparent
heir to the right worshipful Sir David Dunbar of Baldoon, Knight Baronet. He departed this
life on March 28, 1682, having received a bruise by a fall, as he was riding the day preceding
betwixt Leith and Holyrood House; and was honourably interred in the Abbey Church of Holyrood
House, on April 4, 1682."

     Men might, and very justly too, conclude
     Me guilty of the worst ingratitude,
     Should I be silent, or should I forbear
     At this sad accident to shed a tear;
     A tear! said I? ah! that's a petit thing,
     A very lean, slight, slender offering,
     Too mean, I'm sure, for me, wherewith t'attend
     The unexpected funeral of my friend:
     A glass of briny tears charged up to th' brim.
     Would be too few for me to shed for him.

The poet proceeds to state his intimacy with the deceased, and the constancy of the young man's
attendance on public worship, which was regular, and had such effect upon two or three other
that were influenced by his example:

     So that my Muse 'gainst Priscian avers,
     He, only he, WERE my parishioners;
     Yea, and my only hearers.

He then describes the deceased in person and manners, from which it appears that more accomplishments
were expected in the composition of a fine gentleman in ancient than modern times:

     His body, though not very large or tall,
     Was sprightly, active, yea and strong withal.
     His constitution was, if right I've guess'd,
     Blood mixt with choler, said to be the best.
     In's gesture, converse, speech, discourse, attire,
     He practis'd that which wise men still admire,
     Commend, and recommend.  What's that? you'll say.
     'Tis this: he ever choos'd the middle way
     'Twixt both th' extremes.  Amost in ev'ry thing
     He did the like, 'tis worth our noticing:
     Sparing, yet not a niggard; liberal,
     And yet not lavish or a prodigal,
     As knowing when to spend and when to spare;
     And that's a lesson which not many are
     Acquainted with.  He bashful was, yet daring
     When he saw cause, and yet therein not sparing;
     Familiar, yet not common, for he knew
     To condescend, and keep his distance too.
     He us'd, and that most commonly, to go
     On foot; I wish that he had still done so.
     Th' affairs of court were unto him well known;
     And yet meanwhile he slighted not his own.
     He knew full well how to behave at court,
     And yet but seldom did thereto resort;
     But lov'd the country life, choos'd to inure
     Himself to past'rage and agriculture;
     Proving, improving, ditching, trenching, draining,
     Viewing, reviewing, and by those means gaining;
     Planting, transplanting, levelling, erecting
     Walls, chambers, houses, terraces; projecting
     Now this, now that device, this draught, that measure,
     That might advance his profit with his pleasure.
     Quick in his bargains, honest in commerce,
     Just in his dealings, being much adverse
     From quirks of law, still ready to refer
     His cause t' an honest country arbiter.
     He was acquainted with cosmography,
     Arithmetic, and modern history;
     With architecture and such arts as these,
     Which I may call specifick sciences
     Fit for a gentleman; and surely he
     That knows them not, at least in some degree,
     May brook the title, but he wants the thing,
     Is but a shadow scarce worth noticing.
     He learned the French, be't spoken to his praise,
     In very little more than fourty days.

Then comes the full burst of woe, in which, instead of saying much himself, the poet informs
us what the ancients would have said on such an occasion:

     A heathen poet, at the news, no doubt,
     Would have exclaimed, and furiously cry'd out
     Against the fates, the destinies and starrs,
     What! this the effect of planetarie warrs!
     We might have seen him rage and rave, yea worse,
     'Tis very like we might have heard him curse
     The year, the month, the day, the hour, the place,
     The company, the wager, and the race;
     Decry all recreations, with the names
     Of Isthmian, Pythian, and Olympick games;
     Exclaim against them all both old and new,
     Both the Nemaean and the Lethaean too:
     Adjudge all persons, under highest pain,
     Always to walk on foot, and then again
     Order all horses to be hough'd, that we
     Might never more the like adventure see.

Supposing our readers have had enough of Mr. Symson's woe, and finding nothing more in his
poem worthy of transcription, we return to the tragic story.

It is needless to point out to the intelligent reader that the witchcraft of the mother consisted
only in the ascendency of a powerful mind over a weak and melancholy one, and that the harshness
with which she exercised her superiority in a case of delicacy had driven her daughter first
to despair, then to frenzy. Accordingly, the Author has endeavoured to explain the tragic tale
on this principle. Whatever resemblance Lady Ashton may be supposed to possess to the celebrated
Dame Margaret Ross, the reader must not suppose that there was any idea of tracing the portrait
of the first Lord Viscount Stair in the tricky and mean-spirited Sir William Ashton. Lord Stair,
whatever might be his moral qualities, was certainly one of the first statesmen and lawyers
of his age.

The imaginary castle of Wolf's Crag has been identified by some lover of locality with that
of Fast Castle. The Author is not competent to judge of the resemblance betwixt the real and
imaginary scenes, having never seen Fast Castle except from the sea. But fortalices of this
description are found occupying, like ospreys' nests, projecting rocks, or promontories, in
many parts of the eastern coast of Scotland, and the position of Fast Castle seems certainly
to resemble that of Wolf's Crag as much as any other, while its vicinity to the mountain ridge
of Lammermoor renders the assimilation a probable one.

We have only to add, that the death of the unfortunate bridegroom by a fall from horseback
has been in the novel transferred to the no less unfortunate lover.

CHAPTER I

     By Cauk and keel to win your bread,
     Wi' whigmaleeries for them wha need,
     Whilk is a gentle trade indeed
     To carry the gaberlunzie on.

     Old Song.

FEW have been in my secret while I was compiling these narratives, nor is it probable that
they will ever become public during the life of their author. Even were that event to happen,
I am not ambitious of the honoured distinction, digito monstrari. I confess that, were it safe
to cherish such dreams at all, I should more enjoy the thought of remaining behind the curtain
unseen, like the ingenious manager of Punch and his wife Joan, and enjoying the astonishment
and conjectures of my audience. Then might I, perchance, hear the productions of the obscure
Peter Pattieson praised by the judicious and admired by the feeling, engrossing the young and
attracting even the old; while the critic traced their fame up to some name of literary celebrity,
and the question when, and by whom, these tales were written filled up the pause of conversation
in a hundred circles and coteries. This I may never enjoy during my lifetime; but farther than
this, I am certain, my vanity should never induce me to aspire.

I am too stubborn in habits, and too little polished in manners, to envy or aspire to the honours
assigned to my literary contemporaries. I could not think a whit more highly of myself were
I found worthy to "come in place as a lion" for a winter in the great metropolis. I could not
rise, turn round, and show all my honours, from the shaggy mane to the tufted tail, "roar you
an't were any nightingale," and so lie down again like a well-behaved beast of show, and all
at the cheap and easy rate of a cup of coffee and a slice of bread and butter as thin as a
wafer. And I could ill stomach the fulsome flattery with which the lady of the evening indulges
her show-monsters on such occasions, as she crams her parrots with sugar-plums, in order to
make them talk before company. I cannot be tempted to "come aloft" for these marks of distinction,
and, like imprisoned Samson, I would rather remain--if such must be the alternative--all my
life in the mill-house, grinding for my very bread, than be brought forth to make sport for
the Philistine lords and ladies. This proceeds from no dislike, real or affected, to the aristocracy
of these realms. But they have their place, and I have mine; and, like the iron and earthen
vessels in the old fable, we can scarce come into collision without my being the sufferer in
every sense. It may be otherwise with the sheets which I am now writing. These may be opened
and laid aside at pleasure; by amusing themselves with the perusal, the great will excite no
false hopes; by neglecting or condemning them, they will inflict no pain; and how seldom can
they converse with those whose minds have toiled for their delight without doing either the
one or the other.

In the better and wiser tone of feeling with Ovid only expresses in one line to retract in
that which follows, I can address these quires--

Parve, nec invideo, sine me, liber, ibis in urbem.

Nor do I join the regret of the illustrious exile, that he himself could not in person accompany
the volume, which he sent forth to the mart of literature, pleasure, and luxury. Were there
not a hundred similar instances on record, the rate of my poor friend and school-fellow, Dick
Tinto, would be sufficient to warn me against seeking happiness in the celebrity which attaches
itself to a successful cultivator of the fine arts.

Dick Tinto, when he wrote himself artist, was wont to derive his origin from the ancient family
of Tinto, of that ilk, in Lanarkshire, and occasionally hinted that he had somewhat derogated
from his gentle blood in using the pencil for his principal means of support. But if Dick's
pedigree was correct, some of his ancestors must have suffered a more heavy declension, since
the good man his father executed the necessary, and, I trust, the honest, but certainly not
very distinguished, employment of tailor in ordinary to the village of Langdirdum in the west..
Under his humble roof was Richard born, and to his father's humble trade was Richard, greatly
contrary to his inclination, early indentured. Old Mr. Tinto had, however, no reason to congratulate
himself upon having compelled the youthful genius of his son to forsake its natural bent. He
fared like the school-boy who attempts to stop with his finger the spout of a water cistern,
while the stream, exasperated at this compression, escapes by a thousand uncalculated spurts,
and wets him all over for his pains. Even so fared the senior Tinto, when his hopeful apprentice
not only exhausted all the chalk in making sketches upon the shopboard, but even executed several
caricatures of his father's best customers, who began loudly to murmur, that it was too hard
to have their persons deformed by the vestments of the father, and to be at the same time turned
into ridicule by the pencil of the son. This led to discredit and loss of practice, until the
old tailor, yielding to destiny and to the entreaties of his son, permitted him to attempt
his fortune in a line for which he was better qualified.

There was about this time, in the village of Langdirdum, a peripatetic brother of the brush,
who exercised his vocation sub Jove frigido, the object of admiration of all the boys of the
village, but especially to Dick Tinto. The age had not yet adopted, amongst other unworthy
retrenchments, that illiberal measure of economy which, supplying by written characters the
lack of symbolical representation, closes one open and easily accessible avenue of instruction
and emolument against the students of the fine arts. It was not yet permitted to write upon
the plastered doorway of an alehouse, or the suspended sign of an inn, "The Old Magpie," or
"The Saracen's Head," substituting that cold description for the lively effigies of the plumed
chatterer, or the turban'd frown of the terrific soldan. That early and more simple age considered
alike the necessities of all ranks, and depicted the symbols of good cheer so as to be obvious
to all capacities; well judging that a man who could not read a syllable might nevertheless
love a pot of good ale as well as his better-educated neighbours, or even as the parson himself.
Acting upon this liberal principle, publicans as yet hung forth the painted emblems of their
calling, and sign-painters, if they seldom feasted, did not at least absolutely starve.

To a worthy of this decayed profession, as we have already intimated, Dick Tinto became an
assistant; and thus, as is not unusual among heaven-born geniuses in this department of the
fine arts, began to paint before he had any notion of drawing.

His talent for observing nature soon induced him to rectify the errors, and soar above the
instructions, of his teacher. He particularly shone in painting horses, that being a favourite
sign in the Scottish villages; and, in tracing his progress, it is beautiful to observe how
by degrees he learned to shorten the backs and prolong the legs of these noble animals, until
they came to look less like crocodiles, and more like nags. Detraction, which always pursues
merit with strides proportioned to its advancement, has indeed alleged that Dick once upon
a time painted a horse with five legs, instead of four. I might have rested his defence upon
the license allowed to that branch of his profession, which, as it permits all sorts of singular
and irregular combinations, may be allowed to extend itself so far as to bestow a limb supernumerary
on a favourite subject. But the cause of a deceased friend is sacred; and I disdain to bottom
it so superficially. I have visited the sign in question, which yet swings exalted in the village
of Langdirdum; and I am ready to depone upon the oath that what has been idly mistaken or misrepresented
as being the fifth leg of the horse, is, in fact, the tail of that quadruped, and, considered
with reference to the posture in which he is delineated, forms a circumstance introduced and
managed with great and successful, though daring, art. The nag being represented in a rampant
or rearing posture, the tail, which is prolonged till it touches the ground, appears to form
a point d'appui, and gives the firmness of a tripod to the figure, without which it would be
difficult to conceive, placed as the feet are, how the courser could maintain his ground without
tumbling backwards. This bold conception has fortunately fallen into the custody of one by
whom it is duly valued; for, when Dick, in his more advanced state of proficiency, became dubious
of the propriety of so daring a deviation to execute a picture of the publican himself in exchange
for this juvenile production, the courteous offer was declined by his judicious employer, who
had observed, it seems, that when his ale failed to do its duty in conciliating his guests,
one glance at his sign was sure to put them in good humour.

It would be foreign to my present purpose to trace the steps by which Dick Tinto improved his
touch, and corrected, by the rules of art, the luxuriance of a fervid imagination. The scales
fell from his eyes on viewing the sketches of a contemporary, the Scottish Teniers, as Wilkie
has been deservedly styled. He threw down the brush took up the crayons, and, amid hunger and
toil, and suspense and uncertainty, pursued the path of his profession under better auspices
than those of his original master. Still the first rude emanations of his genius, like the
nursery rhymes of Pope, could these be recovered, will be dear to the companions of Dick Tinto's
youth. There is a tankard and gridiron painted over the door of an obscure change-house in
the Back Wynd of Gandercleugh----But I feel I must tear myself from the subject, or dwell on
it too long.

Amid his wants and struggles, Dick Tinto had recourse, like his brethren, to levying that tax
upon the vanity of mankind which he could not extract from their taste and liberality--on a
word, he painted portraits. It was in this more advanced state of proficiency, when Dick had
soared above his original line of business, and highly disdained any allusion to it, that,
after having been estranged for several years, we again met in the village of Gandercleugh,
I holding my present situation, and Dick painting copies of the human face divine at a guinea
per head. This was a small premium, yet, in the first burst of business, it more than sufficed
for all Dick's moderate wants; so that he occupied an apartment at the Wallace Inn, cracked
his jest with impunity even upon mine host himself, and lived in respect and observance with
the chambermaid, hostler, and waiter.

Those halcyon days were too serene to last long. When his honour the Laird of Gandercleugh,
with his wife and three daughters, the minister, the gauger, mine esteemed patron Mr. Jedediah
Cleishbotham, and some round dozen of the feuars and farmers, had been consigned to immortality
by Tinto's brush, custom began to slacken, and it was impossible to wring more than crowns
and half-crowns from the hard hands of the peasants whose ambition led them to Dick's painting-room.

Still, though the horizon was overclouded, no storm for some time ensued. Mine host had Christian
faith with a lodger who had been a good paymaster as long as he had the means. And from a portrait
of our landlord himself, grouped with his wife and daughters, in the style of Rubens, which
suddenly appeared in the best parlour, it was evident that Dick had found some mode of bartering
art for the necessaries of life.

Nothing, however, is more precarious than resources of this nature. It was observed that Dick
became in his turn the whetstone of mine host's wit, without venturing either at defence or
retaliation; that his easel was transferred to a garret-room, in which there was scarce space
for it to stand upright; and that he no longer ventured to join the weekly club, of which he
had been once the life and soul. In short, Dick Tinto's friends feared that he had acted like
the animal called the sloth, which, heaving eaten up the last green leaf upon the tree where
it has established itself, ends by tumbling down from the top, and dying of inanition. I ventured
to hint this to Dick, recommended his transferring the exercise of his inestimable talent to
some other sphere, and forsaking the common which he might be said to have eaten bare.

"There is an obstacle to my change of residence," said my friend, grasping my hand with a look
of solemnity.

"A bill due to my landlord, I am afraid?" replied I, with heartfelt sympathy; "if any part
of my slender means can assist in this emergence----"

"No, by the soul of Sir Joshua!" answered the generous youth, "I will never involve a friend
in the consequences of my own misfortune. There is a mode by which I can regain my liberty;
and to creep even through a common sewer is better than to remain in prison."

I did not perfectly understand what my friend meant. The muse of painting appeared to have
failed him, and what other goddess he could invoke in his distress was a mystery to me. We
parted, however, without further explanation, and I did not see him until three days after,
when he summoned me to partake of the "foy" with which his landlord proposed to regale him
ere his departure for Edinburgh.

I found Dick in high spirits, whistling while he buckled the small knapsack which contained
his colours, brushes, pallets, and clean shirt. That he parted on the best terms with mine
host was obvious from the cold beef set forth in the low parlour, flanked by two mugs of admirable
brown stout; and I own my curiosity was excited concerning the means through which the face
of my friend's affairs had been so suddenly improved. I did not suspect Dick of dealing with
the devil, and by what earthly means he had extricated himself thus happily I was at a total
loss to conjecture.

He perceived my curiosity, and took me by the hand. "My friend," he said, "fain would I conceal,
even from you, the degradation to which it has been necessary to submit, in order to accomplish
an honourable retreat from Gandercleaugh. But what avails attempting to conceal that which
must needs betray itself even by its superior excellence? All the village--all the parish--all
the world--will soon discover to what poverty has reduced Richard Tinto."

A sudden thought here struck me. I had observed that our landlord wore, on that memorable morning,
a pair of bran new velveteens instead of his ancient thicksets.

"What," said I, drawing my right hand, with the forefinger and thumb pressed together, nimbly
from my right haunch to my left shoulder, "you have condescended to resume the paternal arts
to which you were first bred--long stitches, ha, Dick?"

He repelled this unlucky conjecture with a frown and a pshaw, indicative of indignant contempt,
and leading me into another room, showed me, resting against the wall, the majestic head of
Sir William Wallace, grim as when severed from the trunk by the orders of the Edward.

The painting was executed on boards of a substantial thickness, and the top decorated with
irons, for suspending the honoured effigy upon a signpost.

"There," he said, "my friend, stands the honour of Scotland, and my shame; yet not so--rather
the shame of those who, instead of encouraging art in its proper sphere, reduce it to these
unbecoming and unworthy extremities."

I endeavoured to smooth the ruffled feelings of my misused and indignant friend. I reminded
him that he ought not, like the stag in the fable, to despise the quality which had extricated
him from difficulties, in which his talents, as a portrait or landscape painter, had been found
unavailing. Above all, I praised the execution, as well as conception, of his painting, and
reminded him that, far from feeling dishonoured by so superb a specimen of his talents being
exposed to the general view of the public, he ought rather to congratulate himself upon the
augmentation of his celebrity to which its public exhibition must necessarily give rise.

"You are right, my friend--you are right," replied poor Dick, his eye kindling with enthusiasm;
"why should I shun the name of an--an--(he hesitated for a phrase)--an out-of-doors artist?
Hogarth has introduced himself in that character in one of his best engravings; Domenichino,
or somebody else, in ancient times, Morland in our own, have exercised their talents in this
manner. And wherefore limit to the rich and higher classes alone the delight which the exhibition
of works of art is calculated to inspire into all classes? Statues are placed in the open air,
why should Painting be more niggardly in displaying her masterpieces than her sister Sculpture?
And yet, my friend, we must part suddenly; the carpenter is coming in an hour to put up the--the
emblem; and truly, with all my philosophy, and your consolatory encouragement to boot, I would
rather wish to leave Gandercleugh before that operation commences."

We partook of our genial host's parting banquet, and I escorted Dick on his walk to Edinburgh.
We parted about a mile from the village, just as we heard the distant cheer of the boys which
accompanied the mounting of the new symbol of the Wallace Head. Dick Tinto mended his pace
to get out of hearing, so little had either early practice or recent philosophy reconciled
him to the character of a sign-painter.

In Edinburgh, Dick's talents were discovered and appreciated, and he received dinners and hints
from several distinguished judges of the fine arts. But these gentlemen dispensed their criticism
more willingly than their cash, and Dick thought he needed cash more than criticism. He therefore
sought London, the universal mart of talent, and where, as is usual in general marts of most
descriptions, much more of each commodity is exposed to sale than can ever find purchasers.

Dick, who, in serious earnest, was supposed to have considerable natural talents for his profession,
and whose vain and sanguine disposition never permitted him to doubt for a moment of ultimate
success, threw himself headlong into the crowd which jostled and struggled for notice and preferment.
He elbowed others, and was elbowed himself; and finally, by dint of intrepidity, fought his
way into some notice, painted for the prize at the Institution, had pictures at the exhibition
at Somerset House, and damned the hanging committee. But poor Dick was doomed to lose the field
he fought so gallantly. In the fine arts, there is scarce an alternative betwixt distinguished
success and absolute failure; and as Dick's zeal and industry were unable to ensure the first,
he fell into the distresses which, in his condition, were the natural consequences of the latter
alternative. He was for a time patronised by one or two of those judicious persons who make
a virtue of being singular, and of pitching their own opinions against those of the world in
matters of taste and criticism. But they soon tired of poor Tinto, and laid him down as a load,
upon the principle on which a spoilt child throws away its plaything. Misery, I fear, took
him up, and accompanied him to a premature grave, to which he was carried from an obscure lodging
in Swallow Street, where he had been dunned by his landlady within doors, and watched by bailiffs
without, until death came to his relief. A corner of the Morning Post noticed his death, generously
adding, that his manner displayed considerable genius, though his style was rather sketchy;
and referred to an advertisement, which announced that Mr. Varnish, a well-known printseller,
had still on hand a very few drawings and painings by Richard Tinto, Esquire, which those of
the nobility and gentry who might wish to complete their collections of modern art were invited
to visit without delay. So ended Dick Tinto! a lamentable proof of the great truth, that in
the fine arts mediocrity is not permitted, and that he who cannot ascend to the very top of
the ladder will do well not to put his foot upon it at all.

The memory of Tinto is dear to me, from the recollection of the many conversations which we
have had together, most of them turning upon my present task. He was delighted with my progress,
and talked of an ornamented and illustrated edition, with heads, vignettes, and culs de lampe,
all to be designed by his own patriotic and friendly pencil. He prevailed upon an old sergeant
of invalids to sit to him in the character of Bothwell, the lifeguard's-man of Charles the
Second, and the bellman of Gandercleugh in that of David Deans. But while he thus proposed
to unite his own powers with mine for the illustration of these narratives, he mixed many a
dose of salutary criticism with the panegyrics which my composition was at times so fortunate
as to call forth.

"Your characters," he said, "my dear Pattieson, make too much use of the gob box; they patter
too much (an elegant phraseology which Dick had learned while painting the scenes of an itinerant
company of players); there is nothing in whole pages but mere chat and dialogue."

"The ancient philosopher," said I in reply, "was wont to say, 'Speak, that I may know thee';
and how is it possible for an author to introduce his personae dramatis to his readers in a
more interesting and effectual manner than by the dialogue in which each is represented as
supporting his own appropriate character?"

"It is a false conclusion," said Tinto; "I hate it, Peter, as I hate an unfilled can. I grant
you, indeed, that speech is a faculty of some value in the intercourse of human affairs, and
I will not even insist on the doctrine of that Pythagorean toper, who was of opinion that over
a bottle speaking spoiled conversation. But I will not allow that a professor of the fine arts
has occasion to embody the idea of his scene in language, in order to impress upon the reader
its reality and its effect. On the contrary, I will be judged by most of your readers, Peter,
should these tales ever become public, whether you have not given us a page of talk for every
single idea which two words might have communicated, while the posture, and manner, and incident,
accurately drawn, and brougth out by appropriate colouring, would have preserved all that was
worthy of preservation, and saved these everlasting 'said he's' and 'said she's,' with which
it has been your pleasure to encumber your pages."

I replied, "That he confounded the operations of the pencil and the pen; that the serene and
silent art, as painting has been called by one of our first living poets, necessarily appealed
to the eye, because it had not the organs for addressing the ear; whereas poetry, or that species
of composition which approached to it, lay under the necessity of doing absolutely the reverse,
and addressed itself to the ear, for the purpose of exciting that interest which it could not
attain through the medium of the eye."

