Although it is difficult to learn what is going on at the under surface of the glacier, it
is possible directly and indirectly to ascertain much concerning the peculiar and important
work which is there done. The intrepid explorer may work his way in through the lateral fissures,
and even with care safely descend some of the fissures which penetrate the central parts of
a shallow ice stream. There, it may be at the depth of a hundred feet or more, he will find
a quantity of stones, some of which may be in size like to a small house held in the body of
the ice, but with one side resting upon the bed rock. He may be so fortunate as to see the
stone actually in process of cutting a groove in the bed rock as it is urged forward by the
motion of the glacier. The cutting is not altogether in the fixed material, for the boulder
itself is also worn and scored in the work. Smaller pebbles are caught in the space between
the erratic and the motionless rock and ground to bits. If in his explorations the student
finds his way to the part of the floor on which the waters of a moulin fall, he may have a
chance to observe how the stones set in motion serve to cut the bed rock, forming elongated
potholes much as in the case of ordinary waterfalls, or at the base of those shafts which afford
the beginnings of limestone caverns.

The best way to penetrate beneath the glacier is through the arch of the stream which always
flows from the terminal face of the ice river. Even in winter time every large glacier discharges
at its end a considerable brook, the waters of which have been melted from the ice in small
part by the outflow of the earth's heat; mainly, however, by the warmth produced in the friction
of the ice on itself and on its bottom--in other words, by the conversion of that energy of
position, of which we have often to speak, into heat. In the summer time this subglacial stream
is swollen by the surface waters descending through the crevices and the moulins which come
from them, so that the outflow often forms a considerable river, and thus excavates in the
ice a large or at least a long cavern, the base of which is the bed rock. In the autumn, when
the superficial melting ceases, this gallery can often be penetrated for a considerable distance,
and affords an excellent way to the secrets of the under ice. The observer may here see quantities
of the rock material held in the grip of the ice, and forced to a rude journey over the bare
foundation stones. Now and then he may find the glacial mass in large measure made up of stones,
the admixture extending many feet above the bottom of the cavern, perhaps to the very top of
the arch. He may perchance find that these stones are crushing each other where they are in
contact. The result will be brought about by the difference in the rate of advance of the ice,
which moves the faster the higher it is above the surface over which it drags, and thus forces
the stones on one level over those below. Where the waters of the subglacial stream have swept
the bed rock clean of débris its surface is scored, grooved, and here and there polished in
a manner which is accomplished only by ice action, though some likeness to it is afforded where
stones have been swept over for ages by blowing sand. Here and there, often in a way which
interrupts the cavern journey, the shrunken stream, unable to carry forward the débris, deposits
the material in the chamber, sometimes filling the arch so completely that the waters are forced
to make a detour. This action is particularly interesting, for the reason that in regions whence
glaciers have disappeared the deposits formed in the old ice arches often afford singularly
perfect moulds of those caverns which were produced by the ancient subglacial streams. These
moulds are termed eskers.

If the observer be attentive, he will note the fact that the waters emerging from beneath the
considerable glacier are very much charged with mud. If he will take a glass of the water at
the point of escape, he will often find, on permitting it to settle, that the sediment amounts
to as much as one twentieth of the volume. While the greater part of this detritus will descend
to the bottom of the vessel in the course of a day, a portion of it does not thus fall. He
may also note that this mud is not of the yellowish hue which he is accustomed to behold in
the materials laid down by ordinary rivers, but has a whitish colour. Further study will reveal
the fact that the difference is due to the lack of oxidation in the case of the glacial detritus.
River muds forming slowly and during long-continued exposure to the action of the air have
their contained iron much oxidized, which gives them a part of their darkened appearance. Moreover,
they are somewhat coloured with decayed vegetable matter. The waste from beneath the glacier
has been quickly separated from the bed rock, all the faces of the grains are freshly fractured,
and there is no admixture of organic matter. The faces of the particles thus reflect light
in substantially the same way as powdered glass or pulverized ice, and consequently appear white.

A little observation will show the student that this very muddy character of waters emerging
from beneath the glacier is essentially peculiar to such streams as we have described. Ascending
any of the principal valleys of Switzerland, he may note that some of the streams flow waters
which carry little sediment even in times when they are much swollen, while others at all seasons
have the whitish colour. A little further exploration, or the use of a good map, will show
him that the pellucid streams receive no contributions of glacial water, while those which
look as if they were charged with milk come, in part at least, from the ice arches. From some
studies which the writer has made in Swiss valleys, it appears that the amount of erosion accomplished
on equal areas of similar rock by the descent of the waters in the form of a glacier or in
that of ordinary torrents differs greatly. Moving in the form of ice, or in the state of ice-confined
streams, the mass of water applies very many times as much of its energy of position to grinding
and bearing away the rocks as is accomplished where the water descends in its fluid state.

The effect of the intense ice action above noted is rapidly to wear away the rocks of the valley
in which the glacier is situated. This work is done not only in a larger measure but in a different
way from that accomplished by torrents. In the case of the latter, the stream bed is embarrassed
by the rubbish which comes into it; only here and there can it attack the bed rock by forcing
the stones over its surface. Only in a few days of heavy rain each year is its work at all
effective; the greater part of the energy of position of its waters is expended in the endless
twistings and turnings of its stream, which result only in the development of heat which flies
away into the atmosphere. In the ice stream, owing to its slow movement and to the detritus
which it forces along the bottom, a vastly greater part of the energy which impels it down
the slope is applied to rock cutting. None of the boulders, even if they are yards in diameter,
obstruct its motion; small and great alike are to it good instruments wherewith to attack the
bed rocks. The fragments are never left to waste by atmospheric decay, but are to a very great
extent used up in mechanical work, while the most of the detritus which comes to a torrent
is left in a coarse state when it is delivered to the stream; the larger part of that which
the glacier transports is worn out in its journey. To a great extent it is used up in attacking
the bed rock. In most cases the débris in the terminal moraine is evidently but a small part
of what entered the ice during its journey from the uplands; the greater part has been worn
out in the rude experiences to which it has been subjected.

It is evident that even in the regions now most extensively occupied by glaciers the drainage
systems have been shaped by the movement of ordinary streams--in other words, ice action is
almost everywhere, even in the regions about the poles, an incidental feature in the work of
water, coming in only to modify the topography, which is mainly moulded by the action of fluid
water. When, owing to climatal changes, a valley such as those of the Alps is occupied by a
glacial stream, the new current proceeds at once, according to its evident needs, to modify
the shape of its channel. An ordinary torrent, because of the swiftness of its motion, which
may, in general, be estimated at from three to five miles an hour, can convey away the precipitation
over a very narrow bed. Therefore its channel is usually not a hundredth part as wide as the
gorge or valley in which it lies. But when the discharge takes place by a glacier, the speed
of which rarely exceeds four or five feet a day, the ice stream because of its slow motion
has to fill the trough from side to side, it has to be some thousand times as deep and wide
as the torrent. The result is that as soon as the glacial condition arises in a country the
ice streams proceed to change the old V-shaped torrent beds into those which have a broad U-like
form. The practised eye can in a way judge how long a valley has been subjected to glacial
action by the extent to which it has been widened by this process.

In the valleys of Switzerland and other mountain districts which have been attentively studied
it is evident that glacial action has played a considerable part in determining their forms.
But the work has been limited to that part of the basin in which the ice is abundantly provided
with cutting tools in the stone which have found their way to the base of the stream. In the
region of the névé, where the contributions of rocky matter to the surface of the deposit made
from the few bare cliffs which rise above the sheet of snow is small, the snow-ice does no
cutting of any consequence. Where it passes over the steep at the head of the deep valley into
which it drains, and is riven into the seracs, such stony matter as it may have gathered is
allowed to fall to the bottom, and so comes into a position where it may do effective work.
From this serac section downward the now distinct ice river, being in general below the snow
line, has everywhere cliffs, on either side from which the contributions of rock material are
abundant. Hence this part of the glacier, though it is the wasting portion of its length, does
all the cutting work of any consequence which is performed. It is there that the underrunning
streams become charged with sediment, which, as we have noted, they bear in surprising quantities,
and it is therefore in this section of the valley that the impress of the ice work is the strongest.
Its effect is not only to widen the valley and deepen it, but also to advance the deep section
farther up the stream and its tributaries. The step in the stream beds which we find at the
seracs appears to mark the point in the course of the glacier where, owing to the falling of
stones to its base, as well as to its swifter movements and the firmer state of the ice, it
does effective wearing.

There are many other features connected with glaciers which richly repay the study of those
who have a mind to explore in the manner of the physicist interested in ice actions the difficult
problems which they afford; but as these matters are not important from the point of view of
this work, no mention of them will here be made. We will now turn our attention to that other
group of glaciers commonly termed continental, which now exist about either pole, and which
at various times in the earth's history have extended far toward the equator, mantling over
vast extents of land and shallow sea. The difference between the ice streams of the mountains
and those which we term continental depends solely on the areas of the fields and the depth
of the accumulation. In an ordinary Alpine region the névé districts, where the snow gathers,
are relatively small. Owing to the rather steep slopes, the frozen water is rapidly discharged
into the lower valleys, where it melts away. Both in the névé and in the distinct glacier of
the lower grounds there are, particularly in the latter, projecting peaks, from which quantities
of stone are brought down by avalanches or in ordinary rock falls, so that the ice is abundantly
supplied with cutting tools, which work from its surface down to its depths.

As the glacial accumulation grows in depth there are fewer peaks emerging from it, and the
streams which it feeds rise the higher until they mantle over the divides between the valleys.
Thus by imperceptible stages valley glaciers pass to the larger form, usually but incorrectly
termed continental. We can, indeed, in going from the mountains in the tropics to the poles,
note every step in this transition, until in Greenland we attain the greatest ice mass in the
world, unless that about the southern pole be more extensive. In the Greenland glacier the
ice sheet covers a vast extent of what is probably a mountain country, which is certainly of
this nature in the southern part of the island, where alone we find portions of the earth not
completely covered by the deep envelope. Thanks to the labours of certain hardy explorers,
among whom Nansen deserves the foremost place, we now know something as to the conditions of
this vast ice field, for it has been crossed from shore to shore. The results of these studies
are most interesting, for they afford us a clew as to the conditions which prevail over a large
part of the earth during the Glacial period from which the planet is just escaping, and in
the earlier ages when glaciation was likewise extensive. We shall therefore consider in a somewhat
detailed way the features which the Greenland glacier presents.

Starting from the eastern shore of that land, if we may thus term a region which presents itself
mainly in the form of ice, we find next the shore a coast line not completely covered with
ice and snow, but here and there exhibiting peaks which indicate that if the frozen mantle
were removed the country would appear deeply intersected with fiords in the manner exhibited
in the regions to the south of Greenland or the Scandinavian peninsula. The ice comes down
to the sea through the valleys, often facing the ocean for great distances with its frozen
cliffs. Entering on this seaward portion of the glacier, the observer finds that for some distance
from the coast line the ice is more or less rifted with crevices, the formation of which is
doubtless due to irregularities of the rock bottom over which it moves. These ruptures are
so frequent that for some miles back it is very difficult to find a safe way. Finally, however,
a point is attained where these breaks rather suddenly disappear, and thence inward the ice
rises at the rate of upward slope of a few feet to the mile in a broad, nearly smooth incline.
In the central portion of the region for a considerable part of the territory the ice has very
little slope. Thence it declines toward the other shore, exhibiting the same features as were
found on the eastern versant until near the coast, when again the surface is beset with crevices
which continue to the margin of the sea.

Although the explorations of the central field of Greenland are as yet incomplete, several
of these excursions into or across the interior have been made, and the identity of the observations
is such that we can safely assume the whole region to be of one type. We can furthermore run
no risk in assuming that what we find in Greenland, at least so far as the unbroken nature
of the central ice field is concerned, is what must exist in every land where the glacial envelope
becomes very deep. In Greenland it seems likely that the depth of the ice is on the average
more than half a mile, and in the central part of the realm the sheet may well have a much
greater profundity; it may be nearly a mile deep. The most striking feature--that of a vast
unbroken expanse, bordered by a region where the ice is ruptured--is traceable wherever very
extensive and presumably deep deposits of ice have been examined. As we shall see hereafter,
these features teach us much as to the conditions of glacial action--a matter which we shall
have to examine after we have completed our general survey as to the changes which occur during
glacial periods.

In the present state of that wonderful complex of actions which we term climate, glaciers are
everywhere, so far as our observations enable us to judge, generally in process of decrease.
In Switzerland, although the ancients even in Roman days were in contact with the ice, they
were so unobservant that they did not even remark that the ice was in motion. Only during the
last two centuries have we any observations of a historic sort which are of value to the geologist.
Fortunately, however, the signs written on the rock tell the story, except for its measurement
in terms of years, as clearly as any records could give it. From this testimony of the rocks
we perceive that in the geological yesterday, though it may have been some tens of thousands
of years ago, the Swiss glaciers, vastly thickened, and with their horizontal area immensely
expanded, stretched over the Alpine country, so that only here and there did any of the sharper
peaks rise above the surface. These vast glaciers, almost continually united on their margins,
extended so far that every portion of what is now the Swiss Republic was covered by them. Their
front lay on the southern lowlands of Germany, on the Jura district of France; on the south,
it stretched across the valley of the Po as far as near Milan. We know this old ice front by
the accumulations of rock débris which were brought to it from the interior of the mountain
realm. We can recognise the peculiar kinds of stone, and with perfect certainty trace them
to the bed rock whence they were riven. Moreover, we can follow back through the same evidence
the stages of retreat of the glaciers, until they lost their broad continental character and
assumed something like their present valley form. Up the valley of any of the great rivers,
as, for instance, that of the Rhône above the lake of Geneva, we note successive terminal moraines
which clearly indicate stages in the retreat of the ice when for a time it ceased to go backward,
or even made a slight temporary readvance. It is easily seen that on such occasions the stones
carried to the ice front would be accumulated in a heap, while during the time when day by
day the glacier was retreating the rock waste would be left broadcast over the valley.

As we go up from the course of the glacial streams we note that the successive moraines have
their materials in a progressively less decayed state. Far away from the heap now forming,
and in proportion to the distance, the stones have in a measure rotted, and the heaps which
they compose are often covered with soil and occupied by forests. Within a few miles of the
ice front the stones still have a fresh aspect. When we arrive within, say, half a mile of
the moraine now building, we come to the part of the glacial retreat of which we have some
written or traditional account. This is in general to the effect that the wasting of the glaciers
is going on in this century as it went on in the past. Occasionally periods of heavy snow would
refresh the ice streams, so that for a little time they pushed their fronts farther down the
valley. The writer has seen during one of these temporary advances the interesting spectacle
of ice destroying and overturning the soil of a small field which had been planted in grain.

It should be noted that these temporary advances of the ice are not due to the snowfall of
the winter or winters immediately preceding the forward movement. So slow is the journey of
the ice from the névé field to the end of a long glacier that it may require centuries for
the store accumulated in the uplands to affect the terminal portion of the stream. We know
that the bodies of the unhappy men who have been lost in the crevices of the glacier are borne
forward at a uniform and tolerably computable rate until they emerge at the front, where the
ice melts away. In at least one case the remains have appeared after many years in the débris
which is contributed to the moraine. On account of this slow feeding of the glacial stream,
we naturally may expect to find, as we do, in fact, that a great snowfall of many years ago,
and likewise a period when the winter's contribution has been slight, would influence the position
of the terminal point of the ice stream at different times, according to its length. If the
length of the flow be five miles, it may require twenty or thirty years for the effect to be
evident; while if the stream be ten miles long, the influence may not be noted in less than
threescore years. Thus it comes about that at the present time in the same glacial district
some streams may be advancing while others are receding, though, on the whole, the ice is generally
in process of shrinkage. If the present rate of retreat should be maintained, it seems certain
that at the end of three centuries the Swiss glaciers as a whole will not have anything like
their present area, and many of the smaller streams will entirely disappear.

Following the method of the illustrious Louis Agassiz, who first attentively traced the evidence
which shows the geologically recent great extension of glaciers by studying the evidence of
the action in fields they no longer occupy, geologists have now inspected a large part of the
land areas with a view to finding the proofs of such ice work. So far as these indications
are concerned, the indications which they have had to trace are generally of a very unmistakable
character. Rarely, indeed, does a skilled student of such phenomena have to search in any region
for more than a day before he obtains indubitable evidence which will enable him to determine
whether or not the field has recently been occupied by an enduring ice sheet--one which survives
the summer season and therefore deserves the name of glacier. The indications which he has
to consider consist in the direction and manner in which the surface materials have been carried,
the physical conditions of these materials, the shape of the surface of the underlying rock
as regards its general contour, and the presence or absence of scratches and groovings on its
surface. As these records of ice action are of first importance in dealing with this problem,
and as they afford excellent subjects for the study of those who dwell in glaciated regions,
we shall note them in some detail.

The geologist recognises several ways in which materials may be transported on the surface
of the earth. They may be cast forth by volcanoes, making their journey by being shot through
the air, or by flowing in lava streams; it is always easy at a glance, save in very rare instances,
to determine whether fragments have thus been conveyed. Again, the detritus may be moved by
the wind; this action is limited; it only affects dust, sand, and very small pebbles, and is
easily discriminated. The carriage may be effected by river or marine currents; here, again,
the size of the fragments moved is small, and the order of their arrangement distinctly traceable.
The fragments may be conveyed by ice rafts; here, too, the observer can usually limit the probabilities
he has to consider by ascertaining, as he can generally do, whether the region which he is
observing has been below a sea or lake. In a word, the before-mentioned agents of transportation
are of somewhat exceptional influence, and in most cases can, as explanations of rock transportation,
be readily excluded. When, therefore, the geologist finds a country abundantly covered with
sand, pebbles, and boulders arranged in an irregular way, he has generally only to inquire
whether the material has been carried by rivers or by glaciers. This discrimination can be
quickly and critically effected. In the first place, he notes that rivers only in their torrent
sections can carry large fragments of rock, and that in all cases the fragments move down hill.
Further, that where deposits are formed, they have more or less the form of alluvial deposits.
If now the observations show that the rock waste occupying the surface of any region has been
carried up hill and down, across the valleys, particularly if there are here and there traces
of frontal moraines, the geologist is entitled to suppose--he may, indeed, be sure--that the
carriage has been effected by a glacial sheet.

Important corroborative evidence of ice action is generally to be found by inspecting the bed
rock below the detritus, which indicates glacial action. Even if it be somewhat decayed, as
is apt to be the case where the ice sheet long since passed away, the bed rock is likely to
have a warped surface; it is cast into ridges and furrows of a broad, flowing aspect, such
as liquid water never produces, which, indeed, can only be created by an ice sheet moving over
the surface, cutting its bed in proportion to the hardness of the material. Furthermore, if
the bed rock have a firm texture, and be not too much decayed, we almost always find upon it
grooves or scratches, channels carved by the stones embedded in the body of the ice, and drawn
by its motion over the fixed material. Thus the proof of glacial extension in the last ice
epoch is made so clear that accurate maps can be prepared showing the realm of its action.
This task is as yet incomplete, although it is already far advanced.

While the study of glaciers began in Europe, inquiries concerning their ancient extension have
been carried further and with more accuracy in North America than in any other part of the
world. We may therefore well begin our description of the limits of the ice sheets with this
continent. Imagining a seafarer to have approached America by the North Atlantic, as did the
Scandinavians, and that his voyage came perhaps a hundred thousand years or more before that
of Leif Ericsson, he would have found an ice front long before he attained the present shores
of the land. This front may have extended from south of Greenland, off the shores of the present
Grand Banks of Newfoundland, thence and westward to central or southern New Jersey. This cliff
of ice was formed by a sheet which lay on the bottom of the sea. On the New Jersey coast the
ice wall left the sea and entered on the body of the continent. We will now suppose that the
explorer, animated with the valiant scientific spirit which leads the men of our day to seek
the poles, undertook a land journey along the ice front across the continent. From the New
Jersey coast the traveller would have passed through central Pennsylvania, where, although
there probably detached outlying glaciers lying to the southward as far as central Virginia,
the main front extended westward into the Ohio Valley. In southern Ohio a tongue of the ice
projected southwardly until it crossed the Ohio River, where Cincinnati now lies, extending
a few miles to the southward of the stream. Thence it deflected northwardly, crossing the Mississippi,
and again the Missouri, with a tongue or lobe which went far southward in that State. Then
again turning to the northwest, it followed in general the northern part of the Missouri basin
until it came to within sight of the Rocky Mountains. There the ice front of the main glacier
followed the trend of the mountains at some distance from their face for an unknown extent
to the northward. In the Cordilleras, as far south as southern Colorado, and probably in the
Sierra Nevada to south of San Francisco, the mountain centres developed local glaciers, which
in some places were of very great size, perhaps exceeding any of those which now exist in Switzerland.
It will thus be seen that nearly one half of the present land area of North America was beneath
a glacial covering, though, as before noted, the region about the Gulf of Mexico may have swayed
upward when the northern portion of the land was borne down by the vast load of ice which rested
upon it. Notwithstanding this possible addition to the land, our imaginary explorer would have
found the portion of the continent fit for the occupancy of life not more than half as great
as it is at present.

In the Eurasian continent there was no such continuous ice sheet as in North America, but the
glaciers developed from a number of different centres, each moving out upon the lowlands, or,
if its position was southern, being limited to a particular mountain field. One of these centres
included Scandinavia, northern Germany, Great Britain about as far south as London, and a large
part of Ireland, the ice covering the intermediate seas and extending to the westward, so that
the passage of the North Atlantic was greatly restricted between this ice front and that of
North America. Another centre, before noted, was formed in the Alps; yet another, of considerable
area, in the Pyrenees; other less studied fields existed in the Apennines, in the Caucasus,
the Ural, and the other mountains of northern Asia. Curiously enough, however, the great region
of plains in Siberia does not appear to have been occupied by a continuous ice sheet, though
the similar region in North America was deeply embedded in a glacier. Coincident with this
development of ice in the eastern part of the continent, the ice streams of the Himalayan Mountains,
some of which are among the greatest of our upland glaciers, appear to have undergone but a
moderate extension. Many other of the Eurasian highlands were probably ice-bound during the
last Glacial period, but our knowledge concerning these local fields is as yet imperfect.

