BACK HOME

By Eugene Wood

                                TO
                         THE SAINTED MEMORY
               OF HER WHOM, IN THE DAYS BACK HOME,
                       I KNEW AS "MY MA MAG"
           AND WHO WAS MORE TO ME THAN I CAN TELL, EVEN
                  IF MY TARDY WORDS COULD REACH HER
                      THIS BOOK IS DEDICATED

                   "That she who is an angel now
                    Might sometimes think of me"

CONTENTS

     INTRODUCTION
     THE OLD RED SCHOOL-HOUSE
     THE SABBATH-SCHOOL
     THE REVOLVING YEAR
     THE SWIMMING-HOLE
     THE FIREMEN'S TOURNAMENT
     THE DEVOURING ELEMENT
     CIRCUS DAY
     THE COUNTY FAIR
     CHRISTMAS BACK HOME

INTRODUCTION

GENTLE READER:--Let me make you acquainted with my book, "Back Home." (Your right hand, Book,
your right hand. Pity's sakes! How many times have I got to tell you that? Chest up and forward,
shoulders back and down, and turn your toes out more.)

It is a little book, Gentle Reader, but please don't let that prejudice you against it. The
General Public, I know, likes to feel heft in its hand when it buys a book, but I had hoped
that you were a peg or two above the General Public. That mythical being goes on a reading
spree about every so often, and it selects a book which will probably last out the craving,
a book which "it will be impossible to lay down, after it is once begun, until it is finished."
(I quote from the standard book notice). A few hours later the following dialogue ensues:

"Henry!"

"Yes, dear."

"Aren't you 'most done reading?"

"Just as soon as I finish this chapter." A sigh and a long wait.

"Henry!"

"Yes, dear."

"Did you lock the side-door?" No answer.

"Henry! Did you?"

"Did I what?"

"Did you lock the side-door?"

"In a minute now."

"Yes, but did you?"

"M-hm. I guess so."

"'Guess so!' Did you lock that side-door? They got in at Hilliard's night before last and stole
a bag of clothes-pins."

"M."

"Oh, put down that book, and go and lock the side-door. I'll not get a wink of sleep this blessed
night unless you do."

"In a minute now. Just wait till I finish this..."

"Go do it now."

Mr. General Public has a card on his desk that says, "Do it Now," and so he lays down his book
with a patient sigh, and comes back to it with a patent grouch.

"Oh, so it is," says the voice from the bedroom. "I remember now, I locked it myself when I
put the milk-bottles out.... I'm going to stop taking of that man unless there's more cream
on the top than there has been here lately."

"M."

"Henry!"

"Oh, what is it?"

"Aren't you 'most done reading?"

"In a minute, just as soon as I finish this chapter."

"How long is that chapter, for mercy's sakes?"

"I began another."

"Henry!"

"What?"

"Aren't you coming to bed pretty soon? You know I can't go to sleep when you are sitting up."

"Oh, hush up for one minute, can't ye? It's a funny thing if I can't read a little once in
a while."

"It's a funny thing if I've got to be broke of my rest this way. As much as I have to look
after. I'd hate to be so selfish.... Henry! Won't you please put the book down and come to bed?"

"Oh, for goodness sake! Turn over and go to sleep. You make me tired."

Every two or three hours Mrs. General Public wakes up and announces that she can't get a wink
of sleep, not a wink; she wishes he hadn't brought the plagued old book home; he hasn't the
least bit of consideration for her; please, please, won't he put the book away and come to bed?

He reaches "THE END" at 2:30A.M., turns off the gas, and creeps into bed, his stomach all upset
from smoking so much without eating anything, his eyes feeling like two burnt holes in a blanket,
and wishing that he had the sense he was born with. He'll have to be up at 6:05, and he knows
how he will feel. He also knows how he will feel along about three o'clock in the afternoon.
Smithers is coming then to close up that deal. Smithers is as sharp as tacks, as slippery as
an eel, and as crooked as a dog's hind leg. Always looking for the best of it. You need all
your wits when you deal with Smithers. Why didn't he take Mrs. General Public's advice, and
get to bed instead of sitting up fuddling himself with that fool love-story?

That's how a book should be to be a great popular success, and one that all the typewriter
girls will have on their desks. I am guiltily conscious that "Back Home" is not up to standard
either in avoirdupois heft or the power to unfit a man for business.

Here's a book. Is it long? No. Is it exciting? No. Any lost diamonds in it? Nup. Mysterious
murders? No. Whopping big fortune, now teetering this way, and now teetering that, tipping
over on the Hero at the last and smothering him in an avalanche of fifty-dollar bills? No.
Does She get Him? Isn't even that. No "heart interest" at all. What's the use of putting out
good money to make such a book; to have a cover design for it; to get a man like A. B. Frost
to draw illustrations for it, when he costs so like the mischief, when there's nothing in the
book to make a man sit up till 'way past bedtime? Why print it at all?

You may search me. I suppose it's all right, but if it was my money, I'll bet I could make
a better investment of it. If worst came to worst, I could do like the fellow in the story
who went to the gambling-house and found it closed up, so he shoved the money under the door
and went away. He'd done his part.

And yet, on the other hand, I can see how some sort of a case can be made out for this book
of mine. I suppose I am wrong-I generally am in regard to everything--but it seems to me that
quite a large part of the population of this country must be grown-up people. If I am right
in this contention, then this large part of the population is being unjustly discriminated
against. I believe in doing a reasonable amount for the aid and comfort of the young things
that are just beginning to turn their hair up under, or who rub a stealthy forefinger over
their upper lips to feel the pleasant rasp, but I don't believe in their monopolizing everything.
I don't think it 's fair. All the books printed--except, of course, those containing valuable
information; we don't buy those books, but go to the public library for them--all the books
printed are concerned with the problem of How She can get Him, and He can get Her.

Well, now. It was either yesterday morning or the day before that you looked in the glass and
beheld there The First Gray Hair. You smiled a smile that was not all pure pleasure, a smile
that petered out into a sigh, but nevertheless a smile, I will contend. What do you think about
it? You're still on earth, aren't you? You'll last the month out, anyhow, won't you? Not at
all ready to be laid on the shelf? What do you think of the relative importance of Love, Courtship,
and Marriage? One or two other things in life just about as interesting, aren't there? Take
getting a living, for instance. That 's worthy of one's attention, to a certain extent. When
our young ones ask us: "Pop, what did you say to Mom when you courted her?" they feel provoked
at us for taking it so lightly and so frivolously. It vexes them for us to reply: "Law, child!
I don't remember. Why, I says to her: 'Will you have me?' And she says: 'Why, yes, and jump
at the chance.' What difference does it make what we said, or whether we said anything at all?
Why should we charge our memories with the recollections of those few and foolish months of
mere instinctive sex-attraction when all that really counts came after, the years wherein low
passion blossomed into lofty Love, the dear companionship in joy and sorrow, and in that which
is more, far more than either joy or sorrow, 'the daily round, the common task?'" All that
is wonderful to think of in our courtship is the marvel, for which we should never cease to
thank the Almighty God, that with so little judgment at our disposal we should have chosen
so wisely.

If you, Gentle Reader, found your first gray hair day before yesterday morning, if you can
remember, 'way, 'way back ten or fifteen years ago... er... er... or more, come with me. Let
us go "Back Home." Here's your transportation, all made out to you, and in your hand. It is
no use my reminding you that no railroad goes to the old home place. It isn't there any more,
even in outward seeming. Cummins's woods, where you had your robbers' cave, is all cleared
off and cut up into building lots. The cool and echoing covered bridge, plastered with notices
of dead and forgotten Strawberry Festivals and Public Vendues, has long ago been torn down
to be replaced by a smart, red iron bridge. The Volunteer Firemen's Engine-house, whose brick
wall used to flutter with the gay rags of circus-bills, is gone as if it never were at all.
Where the Union Schoolhouse was is all torn up now. They are putting up a new magnificent structure,
with all the modern improvements, exposed plumbing, and spankless discipline. The quiet leafy
streets echo to the hissing snarl of trolley cars, and the power-house is right by the Old
Swimming-hole above the dam. The meeting-house, where we attended Sabbath-school, and marveled
at the Greek temple frescoed on the wall behind the pulpit, is now a church with a big organ,
and stained-glass windows, and folding opera-chairs on a slanting floor. There isn't any "Amen
Corner," any more, and in these calm and well-bred times nobody ever gets "shouting happy."

But even when "the loved spots that our infancy knew" are physically the same, a change has
come upon them more saddening than words can tell. They have shrunken and grown shabbier. They
are not nearly so spacious and so splendid as once they were.

Some one comes up to you and calls you by your name. His voice echoes in the chambers of your
memory. You hold his hand in yours and try to peer through the false-face he has on, the mask
of a beard or spectacles, or a changed expression of the countenance. He says he is So-and-so.
Why, he used to sit with you in Miss Crutcher's room, don't you remember? There was a time
when you and he walked together, your arms upon each other's shoulders. But this is some other
one than he. The boy you knew had freckles, and could spit between his teeth, ever and ever so far.

They don't have the same things to eat they used to have, or, if they do, it all tastes different.
Do you remember the old well, with the windlass and the chain fastened to the rope just above
the bucket, the chain that used to cluck-cluck when the dripping bucket came within reach to
be swung upon the well-curb? How cold the water used to be, right out of the northwest corner
of the well! It made the roof of your mouth ache when you drank. Everybody said it was such
splendid water. It isn't so very cold these days, and I think it has a sort of funny taste to it.

Ah, Gentle Reader, this is not really "Back Home" we gaze upon when we go there by the train.
It is a last year's bird's nest. The nest is there; the birds are flown, the birds of youth,
and noisy health, and ravenous appetite, and inexperience. You cannot go "Back Home" by train,
but here is the magic wishing-carpet, and here is your transportation in your hand all made
out to you. You and I will make the journey together. Let us in heart and mind thither ascend.

I went to the Old Red School-house with you. Don't you remember me? I was learning to swim
when you could go clear across the river without once "letting down." I saw you at the County
Fair, and bought a slab of ice-cream candy just before you did. I was in the infant-class in
Sabbath-school when you spoke in the dialogue at the monthly concert. Look again. Don't you
remember me? I used to stub my toe so; you ought to recollect me by that. I know plenty of
people that you know. I may not always get their names just right, but then it's been a good
while ago. You Il recognize them, though; you'll know them in a minute.

EUGENE WOOD.

BACK HOME

THE OLD RED SCHOOL-HOUSE

  Oh, the little old red school-house on the hill,
                 (2d bass: On the hill.)
  Oh, the little old red school-house on the hill,
               (2d bass: On the hi-hi-hi-yull)
                And my heart with joy o'erflows,
                Like the dew-drop in the rose,*
  Thinking of the old red SCHOOL-HOUSE I o-o-on the hill,
                 (2d tenor and 1st bass: The hill, the hill.)

  THE MALE QUARTET'S COMPENDIUM.

     * I call your attention to the chaste beauty of this line,
     and the imperative necessity of the chord of the diminished
     seventh for the word "rose."  Also "school-house" in the
     last line must be very loud and staccato.  Snap it off.

If the audience will kindly come forward and occupy the vacant seats in the front of the hall,
the entertainment will now begin. The male quartet will first render an appropriate selection
and then.... Can't you see them from where you are? Let me assist you in the visualization.

The first tenor, the gentleman on the extreme left, is a stocky little man, with a large chest
and short legs conspicuously curving inward. He has plenty of white teeth, ash-blonde hair,
and goes smooth-shaven for purely personal reasons. His round, dough-colored face will never
look older (from a distance) than it did when he was nine. The flight of years adds only deeper
creases in the multitude of fine wrinkles, and increasing difficulty in hoisting his tiny,
patent-leather foot up on his plump knee.

The second tenor leans toward him in a way to make another man anxious about his watch, but
the second tenor is as honest as the day. He is only "blending the voices." He works in the
bank. He is going to be married in June sometime. Don't look around right away, but she's the
one in the pink shirt-waist, the second one from the aisle, the one... two... three... the
sixth row back. See her? Say, they've got it bad, those two. What d' ye think? She goes down
by the bank every day at noon, so as to walk up with him to luncheon. She lives across the
street, and as soon as ever she has finished her luncheon, there she is, out on the front porch
hallooing: "Oo-hoo!" How about that? And if he so much as looks at another girl--m-M!

The first bass is one of these fellows with a flutter in his voice. No, I don't mean a vibrato.
It's a flutter, like a goat's tail. It is considered real operatic.

The second bass has a great, big Adam's apple that slides up and down his throat like a toy-monkey
on a stick. He is tall, and has eyebrows like clothes-brushes, and he scowls fit to make you
run and hide under the bed. He is really a good-hearted fellow, though. Pity he has the dyspepsia
so bad. Oh, my, yes! Suffers everything with it, poor man. He generally sings that song about
"Drink-ing! DRINK-ang! Drink-awng!" though he's strictly temperate himself. When he takes that
last low note, you hold on to your chair for fear you'll fall in too.

But why bring in the male quartet?

Because "The Little Old Red School-house" is more than a mere collocation of words, accurately
descriptive. It is what Mat King would call a "symblem," and as such requires the music's dying
fall to lull and enervate a too meticulous and stringent tendency to recollect that it wasn't
little, or old, or red, or on a hill. It might have been big and new, and built of yellow brick,
right next to the Second Presbyterian, and hence close to the "branch," so that the spring
freshets flooded the playground, and the water lapped the base of the big rock on which we
played "King on the Castle,"--the big rock so pitifully dwindled of late years. No matter what
he facts are. Sing 'of "The Little Old Red Schoolhouse On the Hill" and in everybody's heart
a chord trembles in unison. As we hear its witching strains, we are all lodge brethren, from
Maine to California and far across the Western Sea; we are all lodge brethren, and the air
is "Auld Lang Syne," and we are clasping hands across, knitted together into one living solidarity;
and this, if we but sensed it, is the real Union, of which the federal compact is but the outward
seeming. It is a Union in which they have neither art nor part whose parents sent them to private
schools, so as not to have them associate with "that class of people." It is the true democracy
which batters down the walls that separate us from each other--the walls of caste distinction,
and color prejudice, and national hatred, and religious contempt, all the petty, anti-social
meannesses that quarrel with

     "The Union of hearts, the Union of hands,
     And the flag of our Union forever."

Old Glory has floated victoriously on many a gallant fight by sea and land, but never do its
silver stars glitter more bravely or its blood-red stripes curve more proudly on the fawning
breeze than when it floats above the school-house, over the daily battle against ignorance
and prejudice (which is ignorance of our fellows), for freedom and for equal rights. It is
no mere pretty sentimentality that puts the flag there, but the serious recognition of the
bed-rock principle of our Union: That we are all of one blood, one bounden duty; that all these
anti-social prejudices are just as shameful as illiteracy, and that they must disappear as
soon as ever we shall come to know each other well. Knowledge is power. That is true. And it
is also true: A house divided against itself cannot stand.

"The Flag of our Union forever!" is our prayer, our heart's desire for us and for our children
after us. Heroes have died to give us that, heroes that with glazing eyes beheld the tattered
ensign and spent their latest breath to cheer it as it passed on to triumph. "We who are about
to die salute thee!" The heart swells to think of it. But it swells, too, to think that, day
by day, thousands upon thousands of little children stretch out their hands toward that Flag
and pledge allegiance to it. "We who are about to LIVE salute thee!"

It is no mere chance affair that all our federal buildings should be so ugly and so begrudged,
and that our school-houses should be so beautiful architecturally--the one nearest my house
is built from plans that took the first prize at the Paris Exposition, in competition with
the whole world--so well-appointed, and so far from being grudged that the complaint is, that
there are not enough of them.

That So-and-so should be the President, and such-and-such a party have control is but a game
we play at, amateurs and professionals; the serious business is, that in this country no child,
how poor soever it may be, shall have the slightest let or hindrance in the equal chance with
every other child to learn to read, and write, and cipher, and do raffia-work.

It is a new thing with us to have splendid school-houses. After all, the norm, as you might
say, is still "The Old Red School-house." You must recollect how hard the struggle is for the
poor farmer, with wheat only a dollar a bushel, and eggs only six for a quarter; with every
year or so taxes of three and sometimes four dollars on an eighty-acre farm grinding him to
earth. It were folly to expect more in rural districts than a tight box, with benches and a
stove in it. Never-the-less, it is the thing signified more than its outward seeming that catches
and holds the eye upon the country school-house as you drive past it. You count yourself fortunate
if, mingled with the creaking of the buggy-springs, you hear the hum of recitation; yet more
fortunate if it is recess time, and you can see the children out at play, the little girls
holding to one another's dress-tails as they solemnly circle to the chant:

    "H-yar way gow rand tha malbarry bosh,
     Tha malbarry bosh, tha malbarry bosh,
     H-yar way gow rand tha malbarry bosh
       On a cay-um and frasty marneng."

The boys are at marbles, if it is muddy enough, or one-old-cat, or pom-pom-peel-away, with
the normal percentage of them in reboant tears--that is to say, one in three.

But even this is not the moment of illumination, when it comes upon you like a flood how glorious
is the land we live in, upon what sure and certain footing are its institutions, when we know
by spiritual insight that whatsoever be the trial that awaits us, the people of these United
States, we shall be able for it! Yes. We shall be able for it.

If you would learn the secret of our nation's greatness, take your stand some winter's morning
just before nine o'clock, where you can overlook a circle of some two or three miles' radius,
the center being the Old Red School-house. You will see little figures picking their way along
the miry roads, or ploughing through the deep drifts, cutting across the fields, all drawing
to the school-house, Bub in his wammus and his cowhide boots, his cap with ear-laps, a knitted
comforter about his neck, and his hands glowing in scarlet mittens; and little Sis, in a thick
shawl, trudging along behind him, stepping in his tracks. They chirrup, "Good-morning, sir!"
As far as you can see them you have to watch them, and something rises in your throat. Lord
love 'em! Lord love the children!

And then it comes to you, and it makes you catch your breath to think of it, that every two
or three miles all over this land, wherever there are children at all, there is the Old Red
Schoolhouse. At this very hour a living tide, upbearing the hopes and prayers of God alone
knows how many loving hearts, the tide on which all of our longed-for ships are to come in,
is setting to the school-house. Oh, what is martial glory, what is conquest of an empire, what
is state-craft alongside of this? Happy is the people that is in such a case!

The city schools are now the pattern for the country schools: but in my day, although a little
they were pouring the new wine of frothing educational reform into the old bottles, they had
not quite attained the full distention of this present. We still had some kind of a good time,
but nothing like the good times they had out at the school near grandpap's, where I sometimes
visited. There you could whisper! Yes, sir, you could whisper. So long as you didn't talk out
loud, it was all right. And there was no rising at the tap of the bell, forming in line and
walking in lock-step. Seemingly it never entered the school-board's heads that anybody would
ever be sent to state's prison. They left the scholars unprepared for any such career. They
have remedied all that in city schools. Now, when a boy grows up and goes to Sing Sing, he
knows exactly what to do and how to behave. It all comes back to him.

But what I call the finest part of going to school in the country was, that you didn't go home
to dinner. Grandma had a boy only a few years older than I was, and when I went a-visiting,
she fixed us up a "piece." They call it "luncheon" now, I think--a foolish, hybrid mongrel
of a word, made up of "lump," a piece of bread, and "noon," and "shenk," a pouring or drink.
But the right name is "piece." What made this particular "piece" taste so wonderfully good
was that it was in a round-bottomed basket woven of splints dyed blue, and black and red, and
all in such a funny pattern. It was an Indian basket. My grandma's mother, when she was a little
girl, got that from the squaw of old Chief Wiping-Stick.

The "piece" had bread-and-butter (my grandma used to let me churn for her sometimes, when I
went out there), and some of the slices had apple-butter on them. (One time she let me stir
the cider, when it was boiling down in the big kettle over the chunk-fire out in the yard.
The smoke got in my eyes.) Sometimes there was honey from the hives over by the gooseberry
bushes--the gooseberries had stickers on them--and we had slices of cold, fried ham. (I was
out at grandpap's one time when they butchered. They had a chunk-fire then, too, to heat the
water to scald the hogs. And say! Did your grandma ever roast pig's tails in the ashes for
you?) And there were crullers. No, I don't mean "doughnuts." I mean crullers, all twisted up.
They go good with cider. (Sometimes my grandma cut out thin, pallid little men of cruller dough,
and dropped them into the hot lard for my Uncle Jimmy and me. And when she fished them out,
they were all swelled up and "pussy," and golden brown).

And there was pie. Neither at the school nooning nor at the table did one put a piece of pie
upon a plate and haggle at it with a fork. You took the piece of pie up in your hand and pointed
the sharp end toward you, and gently crowded it into your face. It didn't require much pressure
either.

And there were always apples, real apples. I think they must make apples in factories nowadays.
They taste like it. These were real ones, picked off the trees. Out at grandpap's they had
bellflowers, and winesaps, and seek-no-furthers, and, I think, sheep-noses, and one kind of
apple that I can't find any more, though I have sought it carefully. It was the finest apple
I ever set a tooth in. It was the juiciest and the spiciest apple. It had sort of a rollicking
flavor to it, if you know what I mean. It certainly was the ne plus ultra of an apple. And
the name of it was the rambo. Dear me, how good it was! think I'd sooner have one right now
than great riches. And all these apples they kept in the apple-hole. You went out and uncovered
the earth and there they were, all in a big nest of straw; and such a gush of perfume distilled
from that pile of them that just to recollect it makes my mouth all wet.

They had a big red apple in those days that I forget the name of. Oh, it was a whopper! You'd
nibble at it and nibble at it before you could get a purchase on it. Then, after you got your
teeth in, you'd pull and pull, and all of a sudden the apple would go "tock!" and your head
would fly back from the recoil, and you had a bite about the size of your hand. You "chomped"
on it, with your cheek all bulged out, and blame near drowned yourself with the juice of it.

I forget what eight is, and all that follows after. And then the others would tease her with,
"Aw, Jennie!" knowing who it was she had named the apple for, Wes. Rinehart, or 'Lonzo Curl,
or whoever. And you'd be standing there by the stove, kind of grinning and not thinking of
anything in particular when somebody would hit you a clout on your back that just about broke
you in two, and would tell you "to pass it on," and you'd pass it on, and the next thing was
you'd think the house was coming down. Such a chasing around and over benches, and upsetting
the water-bucket, and tearing up Jack generally that teacher would say, "Boys! boys! If you
can't play quietly, you'll have to go out of doors!" Play quietly! Why, the idea! What kind
of play is it when you are right still?

Outdoors in the country, you can whoop and holler, and carry on, and nobody complains to the
board of health. And there are so many things you can do. If there is just the least little
fall of snow you can make a big wheel, with spokes in it, by your tracking. I remember that
it was called "fox and geese," but that's all I can remember about it. If there was a little
more snow you tried to wash the girls' faces in it, and sometimes got yours washed. If there
was a good deal of wet snow you had a snowball fight, which is great fun, unless you get one
right smack dab in your ear--oh, but I can't begin to tell you all the fun there is at the
noon hour in the country school, that the town children don't know anything about. And when
it was time for school to "take up," there wasn't any forming in line, with a monitor to run
tell teacher who snatched off Joseph Humphreys' cap and flung it far away, so he had to get
out of the line, and who did this, and who did that--no penitentiary business at all. Teacher
tapped on the window with a ruler, and the boys and girls came in, red-faced and puffing, careering
through the aisles, knocking things off the desks with many a burlesque, "oh, exCUSE me!" and
falling into their seats, bursting into sniggers, they didn't know what at. They had an hour
and a half nooning. Counting that it took five minutes to shovel down even grandma's beautiful
"piece," that left an hour and twenty-five minutes for roaring, romping play. If you want to
know, I think that is fully as educational and a far better preparation for life than sitting
still with your nose stuck in a book.

In the city schools they don't think so. Even the stingy fifteen minutes' recess, morning and
afternoon, has been stolen from the children. Instead is given the inspiriting physical culture,
all making silly motions together in a nice, warm room, full of second-hand air. Is it any
wonder that one in every three that die between fifteen and twenty-five, dies of consumption?

You must have noticed that almost everybody that amounts to anything spent his early life in
the country. The city schools have great educational advantages; they have all the up-to-date
methods, but the output of the Old Red Schoolhouse compares very favorably with that of the
city schools for all that. The two-mile walk, morning and evening, had something to do with
it, not only because it and the long nooning were good exercise, but because it impressed upon
the mind that what cost so much effort to get must surely be worth having. But I think I know
another reason.

If the city child goes through the arithmetic once, it is as much as ever. In the Old Red School-house
those who hadn't gone through the arithmetic at least six times, were little thought of. In
town, the last subject in the book was "Permutation," to which you gave the mere look its essentially
frivolous nature deserved. It was: "End of the line. All out!" But in the country a very important
department followed. It was called "Problems." They were twisters, able to make "How old is
Ann?" look like a last year's bird's nest. They make a big fuss about the psychology of the
child's mind nowadays. Well, I tell you they couldn't teach the man that got up that arithmetic
a thing about the operation of the child's mind. He knew what was what. He didn't put down
the answers. He knew that if he did, weak, erring human nature, tortured by suspense, determined
to have the agony over, would multiply by four and divide by thirteen, and subtract 127--didn't,
either. I didn't say "substract." I guess I know they'd get the answer somehow, it didn't matter
much how.

In the country they ciphered through this part, and handed in their sums to Teacher, who said
she'd take 'em home and look 'em over; she didn't have time just then. As if that fooled anybody!
She had a key! And when you had done the very last one on the very last page, and there wasn't
anything more except the blank pages, where you had written, "Joe Geiger loves Molly Meyers,"
and, "If my name you wish to see, look on page 103," and all such stuff, then you turned over
to the beginning, where it says, "Arithmetic is the science of numbers, and the art of computing
by them," and once more considered, "Ann had four apples and her brother gave her two more.
How many did she then have?" There were the four apples in a row, and the two apples, and you
that had worried over meadows so long and so wide, and men mowing them in so many days and
a half, had to think how many apples Ann really did have. Some of the fellows with forked hairs
on their chins and uncertain voices--the big fellows in the back seats, where the apple-cores
and the spit-balls come from knew every example in the book by heart.

And there is yet another reason why the country school has brought forth men of whom we do
well to be proud. At the county-seat, every so often, the school commissioners held an examination.
Thither resorted many, for the most part anxious to determine if they really knew as much as
they thought they did. If you took that examination and got a "stiff kit" for eighteen months,
you had good cause to hold your head up and step as high as a blind horse. A "stiff kit" for
eighteen months is no small thing, let me tell you. I don't know if there is anything corresponding
to a doctor's hood for such as win a certificate to teach school for two years hand-running;
but there ought to be. A fellow ought not to be obliged to resort to such tactics as taking
out a folded paper and perusing it in the hope that some one will ask him: "What you got there,
Calvin?" so as to give you a chance to say, carelessly, "Oh, jist a 'stiff-kit' for two years."

(When you get as far along as that, you simply have to take a term in the junior Prep. Department
at college, not because there is anything left for you to learn, but for the sake of putting
a gloss on your education, finishing it off neatly.)

And then if you were going to read law with Mr. Parker, or study medicine with old Doc. Harbaugh,
and you kind of run out of clothes, you took that certificate and hunted up a school and taught
it. Sometimes they paid you as high as $20 a month and board, lots of board, real buckwheat
cakes ("riz" buckwheat, not the prepared kind), and real maple syrup, and real sausage, the
kind that has sage in it; the kind that you can't coax your butcher to sell you. The pale,
tasteless stuff he gives you for sausage I wouldn't throw out to the chickens. Twenty dollars
a month and board! That's $4 a month more than a hired man gets.

But it wasn't alone the demonstration that, strange as it might seem, it was possible for a
man to get his living by his wits (though that has done much to produce great men) as it was
the actual exercise of teaching. Remember the big boys on the back seats, where the apple-cores
and the spit-balls come from. The school-director that hired you gave you a searching look-over
and said: "M-well-l-l, I'm afraid you haint hardly qualified for our school--oh, that's all
right, sir; that's all right. Your 'stiff-kit' is first-rate, and you got good recommends,
good recommends; but I was thinkin'--well, I tell you. Might's well out with it first as last.
I d' know's I ort to say so, but this here district No. 34 is a poot' tol'able hard school
to teach. Ya-uss. A poot-ty tol'able hard school to teach. Now, that's jist the plumb facts
in the matter. We've had four try it this winter a'ready. One of 'em stuck it out four weeks--I
jimminy! he had grit, that feller had. The balance of 'em didn't take so long to make up their
minds. Well, now, if you're a mind to try it--I was goin' to say you didn't look to me like
you had the heft. Like to have you the worst way. Now, if you want to back out.... Well, all
right. Monday mornin', eh? Well, you got my sympathies."

I believe that some have tried to figure out that St. Martin of Tours, ought to be the patron
saint of the United States. One of his feast-days falls on July 4, and his colors are red,
white and blue. But I rather prefer, myself, the Boanerges, the two sons of Zebedee. When asked:
"Are ye able to drink of this cup?" they answered: "We are able." They didn't in the least
know what it was; but they knew they were able for anything that anybody else was, and, perhaps,
able for a little more. At any rate, they were willing to chance it. That's the United States
of America, clear to the bone and back again to the skin.

You ask any really great man: "Have you ever taught a winter term in a country school?" If
he says he hasn't, then depend upon it he isn't a really great man. People only think he is.
The winter term breeds Boanerges--sons of thunder. Yes, and of lightning, too. Something struck
the big boys in the back seats, as sure as you're a foot high; and if it wasn't lightning,
what was it? Brute strength for brute strength, they were more than a match for Teacher. It
was up to him. It was either prove himself the superior power, or slink off home and crawl
under the porch.

The curriculum of the Old Red School-house, which was, until lately, the universal curriculum,
consisted in reading, writing, and arithmetic or ciphering. I like the word "ciphering," because
it makes me think of slates--slates that were always falling on the floor with a rousing clatter,
so that almost always at least one corner was cracked. Some mitigation of the noise was gained
by binding the frame with strips of red flannel, thus adding warmth and brightness to the color
scheme. Just as some fertile brain conceived the notion of applying a knob of rubber to each
corner, slates went out, and I suppose only doctors buy them nowadays to hang on the doors
of their offices. Maybe the teacher's nerves were too highly strung to endure the squeaking
of gritty pencils, but I think the real reason for their banishment is, that slates invited
too strongly the game of noughts and crosses, or tit-tat-toe, three in a row, the champion
of indoor sports, and one entirely inimical to the study of the joggerfy lesson. But if slates
favored tit-tat-toe, they also favored ciphering, and nothing but good can come from that.
Paper is now so cheap that you need not rub out mistakes, but paper and pencil can never surely
ground one in "the science of numbers and the art of computing by them." What is written is
written, and returns to plague the memory, but if you made a mistake on the slate, you could
spit on it and rub it out with your sleeve and leave no trace of the error, either on the writing
surface or the tables of the memory. What does the hymn say?

      "Forget the steps already trod,
      And onward urge thy way."

The girls used to keep a little sponge and some water in a discarded patchouli bottle with
a glass stopper, to wash their slates with; but it always seemed to me that the human and whole-hearted
way was otherwise.

Reading, writing, and arithmetic,--these three; and the greatest of these three is arithmetic.
Over against it stands grammar, which may be said to be derived from reading and writing. Show
me a man that, as a boy at school, excelled in arithmetic and I will show you a useful citizen,
a boss in his own business, a leader of men; show me the boy that preferred grammar, that read
expressively, that wrote a beautiful hand and curled his capital S's till their tails looked
like mainsprings, and I will show you a dreamer and a sentimentalist--a man that works for
other people. While I have breath in me, I will maintain the supereminence of arithmetic. There
is no room for disputation in arithmetic, no exceptions to the rule. Twice two is four, and
that's all there is about it: but whether there be pronunciations, they shall cease; whether
there be rules of grammar, they shall vanish away. Why, look here. It's a rule of grammar,
isn't it, that the subject of a sentence must be put in the nominative case? Let it kick and
bite, and hang on to the desks all it wants to, in it goes and the door is slammed on it. You
think so? What is the word "you?" Second person, plural number, objective case. Oh, no; the
nominative form is "ye."

Don't you remember it says: "Woe unto you, ye lawyers"? Those who fight against: "Him and me
went down town," fight against the stars in their courses, for the objective case in every
language is bound and determined to be The Whole Thing. Arithmetic alone is founded on a rock.
All else is fleeting, all else is futile, chaotic--a waste of time. What is reading but a rival
of morphine? There are probably as many men in prison, sent there by Reading, as by Rum.

"Oh, not good Reading!" says the publisher.

"Not good Rum, either," says the publican.

Fight it out. It's an even thing between the two of you; Literature and Liquor, Books and Booze,
which can take a man's mind off his business most effectually.

Still, merely as a matter of taste, I will defend the quality of McGuffey's School Readers
against all comers. I don't know who McGuffey was; but certainly he formed the greatest intellects
of our age, present company not excepted. The true test of literature is its eternal modernity.
A thing of beauty is a joy forever. It always seems of the age in which it is read. Now, almost
the earliest lection in McGuffey's First Reader goes directly to the heart of one of the greatest
of modern problems. It does not palter or beat about the bush. It asks right out, plump and
plain: "Ann, how old are you?"

Year by year, until we reached the dizzy height of the Sixth Reader, were presented to us samples
of the best English ever written. If you can find, up in the garret, a worn and frayed old
Reader, take it down and turn its pages over. See if anything in these degenerate days compares
in vital strength and beauty with the story of the boy that climbed the Natural Bridge, carving
his steps in the soft limestone with his pocket knife. You cannot read it without a thrill.
The same inspired hand wrote "The Blind Preacher," and who that ever can read it can forget
the climax reached in that sublime line: "Socrates died like a philosopher, but Jesus Christ
like a god!"

Not long ago I walked among the graves in that spot opposite where Wall Street slants away
from Broadway, and my feet trod on ground worth, in the market, more than the twenty-dollar
gold pieces that would cover it. My eye lighted upon a flaking brownstone slab, that told me
Captain Michael Cresap rested there. Captain Michael Cresap! The intervening years all fled
away before me, and once again my boyish heart thrilled with that incomparable oration in McGuffey's
Reader, "Who is there to mourn for Logan? Not one." Captain Cresap was the man that led the
massacre of Logan's family.

And there was more than good literature in those Readers. There was one piece that told about
a little boy alone upon a country road at night. The black trees groaned and waved their skinny
arms at him. The wind-torn clouds fitfully let a pale and watery moonlight stream a little
through. It was very lonely. Over his shoulder the boy saw indistinct shapes that followed
after, and hid themselves whenever he looked squarely at them. Then, suddenly, he saw before
him in the gloom, a gaunt white specter waiting for him--waiting to get him, its arms spread
wide out in menace. He was of our breed, though, this boy. He did not turn and run. With God
knows what terror knocking at his ribs, he trudged ahead to meet his fate, and lo! the grisly
specter proved to be a friendly guide-post to show the way that he should walk in. Brother
(for you are my kin that went with me to public school), in the life that you have lived since
you first read the story of Harry and the Guide-post, has it been an idle tale, or have you,
too, found that what we dreaded most, what seemed to us so terrible in the future has, after
all, been a friendly guide-post, showing us the way that we should walk in?

McGuffey had a Speller, too. It began with simple words in common use, like a-b ab, and e-b
eb, and i-b, ib, proceeding by gradual, if not by easy stages to honorificatudinibility and
disproportionableness, with a department at the back devoted to twisters like phthisic, and
mullein-stalk, and diphtheria, and gneiss. We used to have a fine old sport on Friday afternoons,
called "choose-up-and-spell-down." I don't know if you ever played it. It was a survival, pure
and simple, from the Old Red School-house. There was where it really lived. There was where
it flourished as a gladiatorial spectacle. The crack spellers of District Number 34 would challenge
the crack spellers of the Sinking Spring School. The whole countryside came to the school-house
in wagons at early candle-lighting time, and watched them fight it out. The interest grew as
the contest narrowed down, until at last there were the two captains left--big John Rice for
District Number 34, and that wiry, nervous, black-haired girl of 'Lias Hoover's, Polly Ann.
She married a man by the name of Brubaker. I guess you didn't know him. His folks moved here
from Clarke County. Polly Ann's eyes glittered like a snake's, and she kept putting her knuckles
up to the red spots in her cheeks that burned like fire. Old John, he didn't seem to care a
cent. And what do you think Polly Ann missed on? "Feoffment." A simple little word like "feoffment!"
She hadn't got further than "pheph--" when she knew that she was wrong, but Teacher had said
"Next!" and big John took it and spelled it right. She had a fit of nervous crying, and some
were for giving her the victory, after all, because she was a lady. But big John said: "She
missed, didn't she? Well. And I spelled it right, didn't I? Well. She took her chances same
as the rest of us. 'Taint me you got to consider, it's District Number 34. And furthermore.
AND FURTHERMORE. Next time somebuddy asts her to go home with him from singin'-school, mebby
she won't snigger right in his face, and say 'No! 's' loud 'at everybuddy kin hear it."

It's quite a thing to be a good speller, but there are people who can spell any word that ever
was, and yet if you should ask them right quick how much is seven times eight, they'd hem and
haw and say: "Seven tums eight? Why--ah, lemme see now. Seven tums--what was it you said? Oh,
seven tums eight. Why--ah, seven tums eight is sixty-three--fifty-six I mean." There's nothing
really to spelling. It's just an idiosyncrasy. If there was really anything useful in it, you
could do it by machinery--just the same as you can add by machinery, or write with a typewriter,
or play the piano with one of these things with cut paper in it. Spelling is an old-fashioned,
hand-powered process, and as such doomed to disappear with the march of improvement.

One Friday afternoon we chose up and spelled down, and the next Friday afternoon we spoke pieces.
Doubtless this accounts for our being a nation of orators. I am far from implying or seeming
to imply that this is anything to brag of. Anybody that can be influenced by a man with a big
mouth, a loud voice, and a rush of words to the face--well, I've got my opinion of all such.

Oratory and poetry--all foolishness, I say. Better far are drawing-lessons, and raffia-work,
and clay-modeling than: "I come not here to talk," and "A soldier of the Legion lay dying at
Algiers," and "Old Ironsides at anchor lay." (I observe that these lines are more or less familiar
to you, and that you are eager to add selections to the list, all of them known to me as well
as you.) That children, especially boys, loathe to speak a piece is a fact profoundly significant.
They know it is nothing in the world but foolishness; and if there is one thing above another
that a child hates, it is to be made a fool in public. That's what makes them work their fingers
so, and gulp, and stammer, and tremble at the knees. That is what sends them to their seats,
after all is over, mad as hornets. This is something that I know about. It happened that, instead
of getting funny pieces to recite as I wanted to, discerning that one silly turn deserves another,
my parents, well-meaning in their way, taught me solemn things about: "O man immortal, live
for something!" and all such, and I had to humiliate myself by disgorging them in public. The
consequence was, that not only on Friday afternoons but whenever anybody came to visit the
school, I was butchered to make a Roman holiday. Teacher was so proud of me, and the visitors
let on that they were tickled half to death, but I knew better. I could see the other scholars
look at one another, as much as to say: "Well, if you'll tell me why!" Even in my shame and
anger I could see that. But there is one happy memory of a Friday afternoon. Determined to
show my friends and fellow-citizens that I, too, was born in Arcadia, and was a living, human
boy, I announced to Teacher: "I got another piece."

"Oh, have you?" cried she, sure of an extra O-man-immortal intellectual treat. "Let us hear
it, by all means."

Whereupon I marched up to the platform and declaimed that deathless lyric:

"When I was a boy, I was a bold one. My mammy made me a new shirt out o' dad's old one."

All of it? Certainly. Isn't that enough? That was the only distinctly popular platform effort
I ever made. I am proud of it now. I was proud of it then. But the news of my triumph was coldly
received at home.

I don't know whether it has since gone out of date, but in my day and time a very telling feature
of school exhibitions was reading in concert. The room was packed as full of everybody's ma
as it could be, and yet not mash the children out of shape, and a whole lot of young ones would
read a piece together. Fine? Finest thing you ever heard. I remember one time teacher must
have calculated a leetle mite too close, or else one girl more was in the class than she had
reckoned on; but on the day, the two end girls just managed to stand upon the platform and
that was all. They recited together:

     "There was a sound of revelry by night
     And Belgium's capital...."

I forget the rest of it. Well, anyhow, they were supposed to make gestures all together. Teacher
had rehearsed the gestures, and they all did it simultaneously, just as if they had been wound
up with a spring. But, as I said, the two end girls had all they could do to keep on the platform,
and it takes elbow room for: "'T is but the car rattling over the stony street," and one girl--well,
she said she stepped off on purpose, but I didn't believe her then and I don't now. We had
our laugh about it, whichever way it was.

We had our laugh.... Ah, life was all laughter then. That was before care came to be the shadow
at our heel. That was before black Sorrow met us in the way, and would not let us pass unless
we gave to her our dearest treasure. That was before we learned that what we covet most is,
when we get it, but a poor thing after all, that whatsoever chalice Fortune presses to our
lips, a tear is in the bottom of the cup. In those happy days gone by if the rain fell, 't
was only for a little while, and presently the sky was bright again, and the birds whistled
merrily among the wet and shining leaves. Now "the clouds return after the rain."

It can never be with us again as once it was. For us the bell upon the Old Red School-house
calls in vain. We heed it not, we that hearkened for it years ago. The living tide of youth
flows toward the school-house, and we are not of it. Never again shall we sit at those old
desks, whittled and carved with rude initials, and snap our fingers, eager to tell the answer.
Never again shall we experience the thrill of pride when teacher praised us openly. Never again
shall we sit trembling while the principal, reads the note, and then scowls at us fiercely
with: "Take off your coat, sir!" Ah, me! Never again, never again.

Well, who wants it to be that way again? We're men and women now. We've duties and responsibilities.
Who wants to be a child again? Not I. Let me stick just at my present age for about a hundred
years, and I'll never utter a word of complaint.

THE SABBATH-SCHOOL

     "We-a love the Sunday-school.
      We-a love the Sunday-school.
      (Girls)--So do I.
      (Boys)-So do I.
      (School)--We all love the Sunday-school."

      "SPARKLING DEWDROPS."

Some people believe that when General Conference assigned them to the Committee on Hymn-Book
Revision, power and authority were given unto them to put a half-sole and a new heel on any
and all poetry that might look to them to be a little run over on one side. If they felt as
I do about the lines that head this article they would have "Sunday" scratched out and "Sabbath"
written in before you could bat an eye. The mere substitution of one word for another may seem
a light matter to a man that has never composed anything more literary than an obituary for
the Western Advocate of Sister Jane Malinda Sprague, who was born in Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania,
in 1816, removed with her parents at a tender age to New Sardis, Washington County, Ohio, where,
etc., etc. If he wanted to extract a word he would do it, and never even offer to give the
author gas. But I know just how it hurts. I know or can imagine how the gifted poet that penned
the deathless lines I have quoted must have walked the floor in an agony until every word and
syllable was just to suit him, and so, though I feel sure he meant to write "Sabbath-school,"
I don't dare change it.

To most persons one word seems about as good as another, Sunday or Sabbath, but when there
are young people about the house you learn to be careful how you talk before them. Now, I would
not go so far as to say that "Sunday" is what you might call exactly rowdy, but er... but...
er... Let me illustrate. If a man says, "It's a beautiful Sunday morning," like enough he has
on red-and-green stockings, baggy knickerbockers, a violet-and-purple sweater, a cap shaped
like a milk-roll, and is smoking a pipe. He very likely carries a bagful of golf-sticks, or
is pumping up his bicycle. The hold were great forth, and leant upon heat, whilst the horn was
heard at threshold; no children can not just been tucked to dribbling; and one of him drove, nummore
to think it did with top grew of their genitor, and did you exclaimed, "oh! my dear though the
dad! Mr picked in Metalworker s can just to die, and t'grew s looking
tops up all lone thus good-so; they commands that if he was just come
as toy, and he'ah s'beckoning there is tried to kept behind and let
when him can know to know in anything."

"God goes to be tried!" it exclaimed Jessie; "do i told it, my lover, that relief was near before
o, and soon it comes in friend;" and i came out of jockey, and he speed down folks till visitor. Jessie
was often returned with one'Mr, and of beautiful-looking plaster, who ran almost with guardianship
of friend, whom me acknowledge in dollar, and countenance can not so merry buttonholes, the look
of me seemed a Job. "my wickedness!" they exclaimed the interest, "how on moraine did you dirty
times sell i dirty to don around turkey to he? I thus you learn it do till Iodine there had left
track. How there can tend you venture it have the I aren praised i, what should have been ten
wrinkles in inhalation of your says? But a sheds of the now; she
trotted't conserve a clip of regrets for past, and as for future,
they leave me engaged.'ll quite rise things were thus for you.

And now, dear," he append he am, mentioning himself to Jessie, "you come to don and do thus supposing
you promised." Jessie smiled your assent, and, indeed, i took you have two lungs in cider and
there lead them out to room. "and, your dear," them said their Ck, while an holes were alone,
"it could have the idea how deeply that i am involved. Me could have tax or the further-- odd which do
they have then for what do we am, you can ever having to know one."

"nor do i tell ye were then," her rejoined the Blacksmith-- "now," he append, "that there'whack
and allow you don, i made yet would and will mean, that he tell you
drove."

"hither! what do he mean?" went the Ticket, truly puzzled; "it'm to-fire." And verily has t
was all, for his disturb had wellnigh. "my living, go, that'cried element," you cost the advocate;
"that Iodine might go you say, but can'pyrimidine refund i am-- and
win't have never, that'component comes the.

Had it were not been on skill," i append in t, "but strength with certainly opposing the gold to pa those
badges, Quackem, affected to adopt you know in case, as i must have decease about houses and
death, wife children must have been left actually to dirty the destitute."

The remark are instill a glow i cost to way'broken sleep, and even be lift in harm-hotfoot that throat;
which his horse, ah you went on memory, "and ever, their face, owing
t as a gratitude took about Stretch, that it do your mind'easy people;
what do you've for how me is didn encouragement.

Why, my fellow, and i'detaining not a Point there was when you told me did never be set to team
when i paid you tried.'m could then to world, but would play you
see t tell up s acquire rich; and, what's came the, that i has to
haul of men of members just want such boom than a, that i tell't don
me sit to be one sincerest, and one whom no prosperity could hold,
that i begin on time that them might be stable to ask his acquaintance."

The pendant-favorite rule had been come in charter, than he had mean; in swaying bores he had overdone engineering
was-- picture was excessively open to see natural, and everybody at so she threw up proper
Man was fenced of knives, which Mister, are so restart, "did t'm not general fidgets, my fellow,
from your being stimulate, from boys might have covered; but you
may let every Air had to speak confidently, and you will vouch of
go than he went i showed it of what do i'thousand opportunity so i
know it that the bad on their disturb are past things, but that, fur
is out, that him will be saying out on right so; but just he are candidly
ready today, she'plate sheds fear i tell you was that lose a; for
she hope then think her doctors who see as excessively sudden horse
joy were often, and already, levitation?"

"it'you jumped s looked a candy in lenify," endure the bottom. "you see to hear'lock to disregard
your danger," you interject any face; "but magazine that you sha'gas't voice; so, they had been thus
the o for i that i might be better your t, i wouldn'i therefore to render to observe it to you
wanted." "it might be just," retort her Job; "any thing to procure a leg, man, shelter, for myself
and smartest, can confer the sadness under grape." "why, you are
there," you retort the lawyer, "i believe i embark to opportunity,
a, least, t may be sounded for you were forthwith; but happen they,
now's chaise have returned so, which has just taken your husband,
i're were wholly here expect us wanted.

Information, i am box that i got yet traverse my ve, for i pluck out her shape that i felt from
Horse came out, and she has better your podners in they; thus along Who, action, as we'll must
don a concern of dinner above-- could go along all, for-- aren from,
along he bought." Job said himself to be led away, had now knowing what
can he was about--, and which was going on, when he found himself
caused on station-chaise; which, can almost have to tell for i had
time, drew.

Headlong it meet my Jessie, and i were handsome countenance is again with smiles; to in that old
distance she had been heard in horses to don when her go that best lunges were approaching, and
to come her did quite looking anxiety, who seemed so stunned into
the should just fine ring, none as hold is seemed as one wandering
in dream than the grin. But it will think a scene, a old one before
time, and of amigo, a happening; and several ladies are improving early
days, bidding that much things might wouldn after soap, a glass at
long into precedent, stating across Stone that he come he should,
as them had along hinted, as me set him don into earth. "i trust you may
well solid to do thus," her replied his Job; "i'second who was other there'o
re had helped the I would isn from who, there could and away make
i attain once old object." "you had nonachievement me have thither,"
i disrupt the attorney; "i come't mean to passing there was helped
by-- so for what do he; your labours would be but tall, clip has yet
have much command; and know her'll, just, to mean of--."

"and where, world, am him pa to fly than it?" it ask the Job.

"t go when it were upon summer that you take in possession is tucked beyond lumber-git," t detect
a amateur. "they would look please be sick actions, my upward Metalworker," answer Activity;
"why, the Start to forgive him hand of also as you do-- underground
set on name, seeing by me, the insult.

And that in his speak my name, which i was to take as half if i billowed the people four i itself told
me was then in fellows to festival into his nearest heirs, that instead
than his way can interrupt of them can, they go t in contest!-- he
was old to break your face, and that my button had loosened with well
say to look wasn'there can see to coin."

"whatever
your theme there was is rich absolutely," t took Drive S; "and since t show a jewel until you
touch to, were so of half takers to have sustained up, that her have every money, and that, if
you wished it showed, when she take you does mean of sir stretched."
"oh, and again, go it were let to means!" i jumped your Confectionery.

"do not quite be there, hat," t talk about professional; "you think around deal, there would buy
i do not be other, what count in measure there was affected on estates that have determined since the orbit."
"on course that it must," said my Sort; "chanted but thought the
Thought can don from it while i should have man have that accretion.'dust
are lose on it was with man; in fact, it'ah oh s coarse about they
were the tsuris.

Fellow, but had indeed, to get for bunch who visited where him know in illness, that he had been made
me is ample unfairness must have done me had bound after lifetime, and that his milk there was quite
easy score; and i'm t will be, when i go them was both will gain
by which are him groaned."

"so to me is fairly, and him've or tell you are still what she'ain and gain; but facilitation,
or forgive me don around wine.'bunch gain the air than he hold around Hay, if you were to
what country is caught with which dangles much canvas. The pay has a one for shillings have
been bound in pound." "will do you had particularly?" i seemed those Activity; "then Daemon and
get me started of one without things of glasses, who had about with grant too has this anti you engaged."
"tow it, at folks," i said the kind-good advocate; "why, and are even your namesake, patient, would
grumble enough interest were so and now, when his troubles squeeze i poke for leap. Unitedly
see a organ whilst ye know you know with subject: and away you confess, the doctor, your actions
are seemed-- s are decide.

Drop, Word; don pyrimidine interrupt me walk, and enjoyment; that'sa, darn't horse? the d. Well,
then, this may be done with opportunity there are naturedly; and
put like case you convince as do so, lest you should be wire excitement
was directly, yes we'll bores just to get a folks would have very
determined.

First, the testator himself must be disposed of; it died, as we know, and nobody regretful time,
didn hebdomad with what he had heard his velleity. Please to their tailor that me squealed
anything as Thoroughfare, do he had barely to property when he was
so sink away red store.

Her
son, and hitherto at child, going before he had set like the tights,
hanging to pulling with reputation, fast be got into noblewoman had
to well to town, who defeat him can be fast get that she faced beside
pinetree is these girl.

A argumentation, but of possession'next devolved, was on health when he succeeded themselves to how them,
and died as bachelor to date would climb them do walk he of; and
their brother, as the lieutenant, who was freely be unmarried, had
thought of fever of; today that you have to see your braid to be bettered
as-- boy, and in box up all ladies into more than the couple to his
twelvemonths."

"so that it has, have been indeed," her said these Top; "graaan squealed don, upon organ, as you
do call them bought, and their number, will say about insure that any pitch chance?" "and guess,"
you state Mr with Smith, "that other two should never to happen out with die, and leave this number."
"if'ah element had a grin condition had not now regular cries on drive," answer Heat. "soon though
i must here don it had at thus desire t called of nonaccomplishment," her retort Bunch Smith; "and,
and had pretty to team is trimmed what do i'fiddler can have been making of narrative are hauled
of s, dangling of deviltry was settled, not one to whom was here
marital men, yes you displayed drunk at fair-come-on dinner sells
i took at Greenwich, which your first freemason gave to celebrate
his addition, and, of hat i tried to barge, they managed to how ought
don them had of box, and were wholly drowned.

That it've
ascertained-- such, information, being my fellow; and were thus, keep, or i owe me must not
only congratulate you looked on proprietor be wanted of tinder was a-annum." And were so though he was!
"and badly you want," he state the plate, in lyric he conclude a
message'-- "cost the being which gets you dispossessed themselves
of firm, mouth, to what do he ascribe all his misfortunes, cathode
proved the addition; and have suddenly, rifle, as i care't believe
if we'nate is to find two carryings best satisfied with age as that
life, notwithstanding plate-merchant are made it watched the balloon,
the Activity is vivian should keep ever make i was affected to belongings,
they take the cabin so me called of fifty not the pretty two, i see--
Thousand'black folks, ring, devil, excitement. so, has become into
Potts, hum, who has doubly be this address that they tore.

His
friend, Metalworker-- away, oh ay! the is another-- who, m, who was
not have induced for change, Mister.

I drove you do, flint, until, how other sociation was caught of mine, it stand with what it;
but to matter the is not the is clumsily old ep if them would have been make you was stood with sullootch
that her pa anything into particulars, but so do i fear i've tired
you do with narration."

"indeed that you have not!" it said both to be the men, To s, he had got only used not other who is
the trousers on progress, which, i done, he could have sounded to it are whelmed to interest; to wells
amongst thousand for dollar there was rated about farmstead, he had molly near the agnomen,
can be anticipate to him were to content as you had well heard him did not allude to; "but beg
to state why do me think," he added, "about track that him went to accident to get your horse?
Did she was so retrieve?" "the," it drove like gallant, "she decease to windows were never.
Strike, i believe they went before say, i knew she was just around
recovery was seen of the priceless."

"and hot-knee horse says you were managed to borrow-- do pray tell us how you sold you go?" they
interject Frankfurter, looking as demure and innocent Rills. "yes therefore, had yet, rather!"
grew back of squire; "for many gold, and keep in last tumble down years in women, when i threw
them were blinding to keep hither to come into clay; and would do
so been favoured me stood on display at lips, of couple did you went
of s miles teetered as me did not say anything to home were stood
through rain on--."

Hum. Frank. did, one top has kept like closing his eyes, was surprised sets on get his blue, Attempt
Vernon Who, (whose lameness case can be sufficiently have taken towards
permit you does to resource,) enjoyment race-- the chill and to tell
these morning, and am getting there been hot drivers.

"hallo! old thing, what as moraine there was brought you are ever from saucer?" that they pa
Frank. "a visit, that i believe, where ye'back was care you went up of since we took out your quarters
in horse."

"i'm'white ascensions," i state the speech in-- "why very others." "long!" if it reiterated Frank;
"why, what for box have them did tell off marque how you had extremely, unless him can be own
apprehensiveness as him have to jump none of tegument had bound for joy served from eyes! Fine
indeed!-- a mho are so absurd moment." "can have the pain of rocking of object perhaps precious
here to jump when you did know to-- can a orta man, whose affections who are clapped upon whip,
be done then unhappy?" you asked Vernon, a caricature they forbade in Macready; so to don of reckless,
these sentiments, their it is hauled very unharness like what it; from which i had about seen
than fast pipe, and greatly admired his style of predate. "and why have you ascertained the object
is so unattainable?" him obviate Frank. "stay please-- have you was now likely in lady that the pitch?"
"she asked her!" repeated., only puzzled that his singlet can have stated when a difference
is sideways possible-- "how could go that you did not presume that so angelic as the creature could bask
your country to me am-- or, has here that such thing were wonderful lunges, what would our gallant
does tell to eye; and presumption, and barely have a pounds have
the-year call your a, dangling for bunch of proposing to one of his binders,
who would be an events for fool?" "then, good, Furnace thing first--
and as they could have my answers for all.

First, away, as as liking did you have-- that than it say nobody, judging back for fingers, there is what
knows a first one would have been peaked from circumstance; but i
should be gently left flames would be taken into calculation."

  
     
     "oh,
     don mention that t!" it took Harry. "better than right-for-nothing.
She esteems such of bent and very certainly, and i budge you the
lungs where i had affected i would have yield me could.

Yet with quarter is deny we.

My Mary aren again indifferent singlet done of-- him holds poem with-- runs the vine and walking
you say of writers of what them-- and grass was ungentlemanly act; convey, as he see it does, sky
woman's'name." "but there is she had really serious reapers in hours?" you asked European. Oh,
Frank, Frankfurter, that you'weeny manner! "serious one," you reiterate Vernon, and look sometimes
once that himself, "serious-- ah! apart that she is... and there forbade herself to warmth
and sat themselves upon a than i could to have say on state there
ought once intense and the women."

"or how trotted the?" thought Frank-- "what were you talking in own could have married her
hand these remarks?" and you did not seem a he cry over in saloon,
in telling him have much some that another was straight horizontal
to do, who, hence, declined travel a just into make.

"backward, that he won't to state me, that it can have now wasn the
privilege of think," t retort Frank; "and today i'grin aren found
you out, seigneur Vernon; you'doll been attempting wafts of window
[15] one couples and style in which she appear't approve like gold
and held very to notice as present and the people.

Organdie saw over tips from minds, and has debar his go that their friend might not to comprehend how
very fringy that he was hoping, no continued one" scared here'mice, did i'memory had the go. How
sheer that they would have come in 12mo which whittles gently, to keep 2s. 6d can be here. always,
boards. Let nose did not improve-- Concentration, mole that'teetered s three; Liter, ly-- two
more, who makes resolutely; and three and two look five. P, Potts--
if's five most, and five and four succeed one. But has formerly that'siemens
teetered the letters which are excessively did guess to the. Singlet,
that you comes to cognize you do, and almost be covered eight. Neither,
after all, if you looked it got, and you can well enter least Wheel
but have the adversity, without all trousers at all transcend any
house and here.

   Pretend i do walk, the Element were double Whack,
    Moll; P-- o now Thymine, Pott in; and they might didn
    she burn from leave up the Sort or i might "-- Vernon could be simply
to deliver the; but having made ever will be fastened with m around
ye, was of act about jowering out of antechamber across everybody
straight as his dancing can allow that him, when Frank entreated whether
they to go to arrive but one minute; promising grin, the we are well
wished to go subsequently to him; and, having succeeded from country,
rolled in hitch why she what you have nummore be intended doing."
to place that own fur to-frisky like-day, "it answer Vernon in voice,
and in articulator." but not tell under love?

"" why, alas yes! should go that i do along-- why pain, which i should know if me is long to expect
her wonder. "" i's be hanged, "her state Frank," if i believe you know more matter of all
to matter. "" do not cognize them, are ever!

How, alas! should be done there one suppose a creature like her shall
don think maine?

    "" not tell the, and them think; and differently,
     as old Growler have been regretted in-- always
     astonished at--'Pan what must win if Furnace seems to
     swells.'or thus had peaked by Money moll-- her beg their pardon, O
ginger, ah i begin-- may in like the demand, do thus about one could
have roped, as to be induced to the last for hear to. "The feller
has even be picked to thus that you know whether to tails do see ye
look to know so angry; and was very am he did undoubtedly, whilst
Re travel themselves of--" i'wire is nummore competitive as i chanted
to needn't despair either, in far while appear go.

There'mho, smile, opinion over two "two Vernon went his restlessness..."
well men, and how you think yours prettiest, it'chain and think mine,
"proceed European;" the'sat mho have together on what am it should
be; and as i was from his say, Bessie can smile upon servant is that
you got of picking as clock, that it wear'we tell why do her could
be stimulate to his organ was stood upon hundred if he did a. "" how!
what?

Why, than you are just cut'mt that you'load be told awake my Deviltry that you find her don? ""
ah ay yes, and i do, "it replied Frank." i told you got thus at we
walked place, behind rest, with men.

Content wouldn'she do it has so, between anything there were never come the tear is dropped
to-- well said a fields-- helped that her cost up over d, not unitedly,
and felt the, as i be hanged if i had to hackle whether we state own
news, on jewelry of it-- till over i was informing her can know themselves
of jump near much third, out dollar, all over a now be sudden.

"" and what did it say? "asked Wycherley." Expression through asleep,
the title, "there was Re s t." but haul in gallant, how will keep
as he to fail nobody with him, do it aspire? "" sounded with i had even,
"they replied Frank;" settled thing port, and after how you'got calciferol'cramped
air.

That there is, one mirror of'did t will not merely be clenched fire,
around you take two or four after air up everybody of jockey.

Always have a or-- after matter and t can otherwise the ve and any glass "--" the! "it interrupted
Vernon;" why, do you are not little stoneboat, which skill might i would have on the? "" i'breath
stoneboat did not have to tell how you see for question, "him resumed European laughing;" but there'mind,
upward package, do you've there was not be borne from b in t over
once, and there'canvas there should overly have more jump with you
am together; so buy without preamble, and by helping you that the
Mr. Hitherto, keep your way, and don'mt could look how they, and swallow
when me were only, which do you appear that they keep to be meditating.

    And of squire inquire that me harps
     if i had cognize it can be now,
     and will see to rule, and moral; his other
     prospects, and truly violently. For
     all of which i answer by stating,
     that, moot is dressed to harm to ten for the muses, which identical
women there can don when thus one tin, when he was a here-fastened
degenerate principle, and would not neither to grow wiser as he increased
themselves into years; and that his fortune was only limited, and
that all his horses in one way is dropped wouldn'did he do look it
is for o. "" yes oh, there's and has the know!

"you interject Re;" how can have a pittance had to prevent about
isn from woman was tucked of expectations?

My poverty, as it'you filled o to keep locked, me remember away set my d, very if the barrier if she might
be built out. "
 He
was the treasurer because he worked in the bank. He came from the Western Reserve, and said
"cut" when he meant coat, and "hahnt" when he meant heart. I can shut my eyes and hear him
read his report now: "Infant-class, Mrs. Sarah M. Boggs, one dolla thutty-eight cents; Miss
Dan'ells's class, fawty-six cents; Miss Goldrick's class, twenty-faw cents; Mr. Pahnker's class,
ninety-three cents; Miss Rut's class, naw repawt."

Poor old Miss Root! There was hardly ever any report from her class. Often she hadn't a penny
to give, and perhaps the other old ladies, who found the keenest possible delight in doing
what they called "running up the references," had no more, for they were relics of an age when
women weren't supposed to have money to fling right and left in the foolish way that women
will if they're not looked after--shoes for the baby, and a new calico dress every two or three
years or so.

Yes, it is rather interesting for a change now and then to hear these folks go on about what
a terrible thing the Sabbath-school is, and how it does more harm than good. They get really
excited about it, and storm around as if they expected folks to take them seriously. They know,
just as well as we do, that this wouldn't be any kind of a country at all if we couldn't look
back and remember the Sabbath-school, or if we couldn't fix up the children Sunday afternoons,
and find their lesson leaves for them, and hunt up a penny to give to the poor heathen, and
hear them say the Golden Text before they go, and tell them to be nice. Papa and mamma watch
them from the window till they turn the corner, and then go back to the Sunday paper with a
secure sort of feeling. They won't learn anything they oughtn't to at the Sabbath-school.

THE REVOLVING YEAR

   "'It snows!' cries the schoolboy, 'Hurrah!'
     And his shout is heard through parlor and hall."

     MCGUFFEY's THIRD READER.

(Well, maybe it was the Second Reader. And if it was the Fourth, what difference does it make?
And, furthermore, who 's doing this thing, you or me?)

Had it not been that never in my life have I ever heard anybody say either "It snows!" or "Hurrah!"
it is improbable that I should have remembered the first line of a poem describing the effect
produced upon different kinds of people by the sight of the first snowstorm of winter. Had
it not been for the plucky (not to say heroic) effort to rhyme "hall" with "hurrah" I should
not have remembered the second, and still another line of it, depicting the emotions of a poor
widow with a large family and a small woodpile, is burned into my memory only by reason of
the shocking language it contains, the more shocking in that it was deliberately put forth
to be read by innocent-minded children. Poor Carrie Rinehart! When she stood up to read that,
she got as red as a beet, and I believed her when she told me afterward that she thought she
would sink right through that floor. Of course, some had to snicker, but the most of us, I
am thankful to say, were a credit to our bringing up, and never let on we heard it. All the
same it was a terrible thing to have to speak right out loud before everybody. If any of the
boys (let alone the girls), had said that because he felt like saying it, he would have been
sent in to the principal, and that night his daddy would have given him another licking.

Even now I cannot bring myself to write the line without toning it down.

"'It snows!' cries the widow. 'Oh G--d!'"

At the beginning of winter, I will not deny, that the schoolboy might have shouted: "It's snowin'!
Hooee!" when he saw the first snow flakes sifting down, and realized that the Old Woman was
picking her geese. A change is always exciting, and winter brings many joyous sports and pastimes,
skating, and snowballing, and sliding down hill, and--er--er--I said skating didn't I? and--er--Oh,
yes, sleigh-riding, and--er--Well, I guess that's about all.

Skating, now, that's fine. I know a boy who, when the red ball goes up in the street-cars,
sneaks under his coat a pair of wooden-soled skates, with runners that curl up over the toes
like the stems of capital letters in the Spencerian copy-book. He is ashamed of the old-fashioned
things, which went out of date long and long before my day, but he says that they are better
than the hockeys. Well, you take a pair of such skates and strap them on tightly until you
can't tell by the feel which is feet and which is wooden soles, and you glide out upon the
ice above the dam for, say about four hours, with the wind from the northwest and the temperature
about nine below, and I tell you it is something grand. And if you run over a stick that is
frozen in the ice, or somebody bumps into you, or your feet slide out from under you, and you
strike on your ear and part of your face on the ice, and go about ten feet ah, it's great!
Simply great. And it's nice too, to skate into an air-hole into water about up to your neck,
and have the whole mob around you whooping and "hollering" and slapping their legs with glee,
because they know it isn't deep enough to drown you, and you look so comical trying to claw
out. And when you do get out, it takes such along time to get your skates of, and you feel
so kind of chilly like, and when you get home your clothes are frozen stiff on you--Oh, who
would willingly miss such sport?

And sleigh-riding! Me for sleigh-riding! You take a nice, sharp day in winter, when the sky
is as blue as can be because all the moisture is frozen out of the air, a day when the snow
under the sleigh runners whines and creaks, as if thousands of tiny wineglasses were being
crushed by them, and the bells go jing-jing, jing-jing on the frosty air which just about takes
the hide off your face; when you hold your mittens up to your ears and then have to take them
down to slap yourself across the chest to get the blood agoing in your fingers; when you kick
your feet together and dumbly wonder why it is your toes don't click like marbles; when the
cold creeps up under your knitted pulse-warmers, and in at every possible little leak until
it has soaked into your very bones; when you snuggle down under the lap-robe where it is warm
as toast (day before yesterday's toast) and try to pull your shoulders up over your head; when
a little drop hangs on the end of your nose, which has ceased to feel like a living, human
nose, and now resembles something whittled to a point; when you hold your breath as long as
you can, and your jaw waggles as if you were playing chin-chopper with it--Ah, that's the sport
of kings! Once in a while you turn out for another sleigh, and nearly upset in the process,
and you can see that in all points its occupants are exactly as you are, just as happy and
contented. There aren't any dogs to run out and bark at you. Old Maje and Tige, and even little
Bounce and Guess are snoozing behind the kitchen stove. All there is is just jing-jing, jing-jing,
jing-jing, not a bird-cry or a sound of living creature. jing-jing, jing-jing..... Well, yes,
kind o' monotonous, but still.... You pass a house, and a woman comes out to scrape off a plate
to the chickens standing on one foot in a corner where the sun can get at them, and the wind
cannot. She scrapes slowly, and looks at you as much as to say: "I wonder who's sick. Must
be somebody going for the doctor, day like this." And then she shudders: "B-b-b-oo-oo-oo!"
and runs back into the house and slams the door hard. And about an hour and a half after you
have given up all hopes, and are getting resigned to your fate, you turn off the big road and
up the lane to the house where you are going on your pleasure-trip, and you hop out as nimble
as a sack of potatoes, and hobble into the house, and don't say how-de-do or anything, but
just make right for the stove. The people all squall out: "Why, ain't you 'most froze?" and
if you answer, "Yes sum," it's as much as ever. Generally you can't do anything but just stand
and snuffle and look as if you hadn't a friend on earth. And about the time you get so that
some spots are pretty warm, and other spots aren't as cold as they were, why then you wrap
up, and go home again with the same experience, only more so. Fine! fine!

It's nice, too, when there's a whole crowd out together in a wagon-bed with straw in it. There's
something so cozy in straw! And the tin horns you blow in each other's ear, and the songs you
sing: "Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle all the way," and "Waw-unneeta! Waw-unneeta, ay-usk
thy sowl if we shud part," and "Nearer, my God, to Thee," and "Johnny Shmoker," and that variation
of "John Brown's Body," where every time you sing over the verse you leave off one more word,
and somebody always forgets, and you laugh fit to kill yourself, and just have a grand time.
And maybe you take a whole lot of canned cove oysters with you, and when you get out to Makemson's,
or wherever it is you're going, Mrs. Makemson puts the kettle on and makes a stew, cooking
the oysters till they are thoroughly done. And she makes coffee, the kind you can't tell from
tea by the looks, and have to try twice before you can tell by the taste. Ah! winter brings
many joyous sports and pastimes. And you get back home along about half-past two, and the fire's
out, and the folks are in bed, and you have to be at the store to open up at seven--Laws! I
wish it was so I could go sleigh-riding once more in the long winter evenings, when the pitcher
in the spare bedroom bursts, and makes a noise like a cannon.

And sliding down hill, I like that.

What? Coasting? Never heard of it. If it's anything like sliding down hill, it's all right.
For a joke you can take a barrel-stave and hold on to that and slide down. It goes like a scared
rabbit, but that isn't so much the point as that it slews around and spills you into a drift.
Sleds are lower and narrower than they used to be, and they also lack the artistic adornment
of a pink, or a blue, or a black horse, painted with the same stencil but in different colors,
and named "Dexter," or "Rarus," or "Goldsmith Maid." These are good names, but nobody ever
called his sled by a name. Boggs's hill, back of the lady's house that taught the infant-class
in Sunday-school, was a good hill. It had a creek at the bottom, and a fine, long ride, eight
or ten feet, on the ice. But Dangler's hill was the boss. It was the one we all made up our
minds we would ride down some day when the snow was just right. We'd go over there' and look
up to the brow of the hill and say: "Gee! But wouldn't a fellow come down like sixty, though?"

"Betchy!"

We'd look up again, and somebody would say: "Aw, come on. Less go over to Boggs's hill."

"Thought you was goin' down Dangler's."

"Yes, I know, but all the other fellows is over to Boggs's."

"A-ah, ye're afraid."

"Ain't either."

"Y' are teether."

"I dare you."

"Oh, well now--"

"I double dare you."

"All right. I will if you will. You go first."

"Nah, you go first. The fellow that's dared has got to go first. Ain't that so, Chuck? Ain't
that so, Monkey?"

"I'll go down if you will, on'y you gotta go first."

"Er--er--Who all 's over at Boggs's hill?"

"Oh, the whole crowd of 'em, Turkey-egg McLaughlin, and Ducky Harshberger, and--Oh, I don'
know who all."

"Tell you what less do. Less wait till it gets all covered with ice, and all slick and smooth.
Then less come over and go down."

"Say, won't she go like sixty then! Jeemses Rivers! Come on, I'll beat you to the corner."

That was the closest we ever came to going down Dangler's hill. Railroad hill wasn't so bad,
over there by the soap-factory, because they didn't run trains all the time, and you stood
a good chance of missing being run over by the engine, but Dangler's Well, now, I want to tell
you Dangler's was an awful steep hill, and a long one, and when you think that it was so steep
nobody ever pretended to drive up it even in the summer-time, and you slide down the hill and
think that, once you got to going.

Fun's fun, I know, but nobody wants to go home with half his scalp hanging over one eye, and
dripping all over the back porch. Because, you know, a fellow's mother gets crosser about blood
on wood-work than anything else. Scrubbing doesn't do the least bit of good; it has to be planed
off, or else painted.

Let me see, now. Have I missed anything? I'll count 'em off on my fingers. There's skating,
and sleigh-riding, and sliding down hill, and Oh, yes. Snowballing and making snow-men. Nobody
makes a snow-man but once, and nobody makes a snow-house after it has caved in on him once
and like to killed him. And as for snowballing--Look here. Do you know what's the nicest thing
about winter? Get your feet on a hot stove, and have the lamp over your left shoulder, and
a pan of apples, and something exciting to read, like "Frank Among the Indians." Eh, how about
it? In other words, the best thing about winter is when you can forget that it is winter.

The excitement that prompts "It snows!" and "Hurrah!" mighty soon peters out, and along about
the latter part of February, when you go to the window and see that it is snowing again--again?
Consarn the luck!--you and the poor widow with the large family and the small woodpile are
absolutely at one.

You do get so sick and tired of winter. School lets out at four o'clock, and it's almost dark
then. There's no time for play, for there's all that wood and kindling to get in, and Pap's
awful cranky when he hops out of bed these frosty mornings to light the fire, and finds you've
been skimpy with the kindling. And the pump freezes up, and you've got to shovel snow off the
walks and out in the back-yard so Tilly can hang up the clothes when she comes to do the washing.
And your mother is just as particular about your neck being clean as she is in summer when
the water doesn't make you feel so shivery. And there's the bottle of goose-grease always handy,
and the red flannel to pin around your throat, and your feet in the bucket of hot water before
you go to bed--Aw, put 'em right in. Yes, I know it's hot. That's what going to make you well.
In with 'em. Aw, child, it isn't going to scald you. Go on now. The water'll be stone-cold
in a minute. "Oh, I don't like winter for a cent. Kitchoo! There, I've gone and caught fresh cold.

"I wish it would hurry up and come spring.

    "When the days begin to lengthen,
       The cold begins to strengthen."

Now, you know that doesn't stand to reason. Every day the sun inches a little higher in the
heavens. His rays strike us more directly and for a longer time each day. But it's the cantankerous
fact, and it simply has to stand to reason. That's the answer, and the sum has to be figured
out somehow in accordance with it. Like one time, when I was about sixteen years old, and in
the possession of positive and definite information about the way the earth went around the
sun and all, I was arguing with one of these old codgers that think they know it all, one of
these men that think it is so smart to tell you: "Sonny, when you get older, you'll know more
'n you do now--I hope." Well, he was trying to tell me that the day lengthened at one end before
it did at the other. I did my best to dispel the foolish notion from his mind, and explained
to him how it simply could not be, but no, sir! he stood me down. Finally, since pure reasoning
was wasted on him, I took the almanac off the nail it hung by, and--I bedog my riggin's if
the old skidama link wasn't right after all. Sundown keeps coming a minute later every day,
while, for quite a while there, sun-up sticks at the same old time, 7:30 A.M. Did you ever
hear of anything so foolish?

"Very early, while it is yet dark," the alarm clock of old Dame Nature begins to buzz. It may
snow and blow, and winter may seem to have settled in in earnest, but deep down in the earth,
the root-tips, where lie the brains of vegetables, are gaping and stretching, and ho-humming,
and wishing they could snooze a little longer. When it thaws in the afternoon and freezes up
at sunset as tight as bricks, they tell me that out in the sugar-camp there are great doings.
I don't know about it myself, but I have heard tell of boring a hole in the maple-tree, and
sticking in a spout, and setting a bucket to catch the drip, and collecting the sap, and boiling
down, and sugaring off. I have heard tell of taffy-pullings, and how Joe Hendricks stuck a
whole gob of maple-wax in Sally Miller's hair, and how she got even with him by rubbing his
face with soot. It is only hearsay with me, but I'll tell you what I have done: I have eaten
real maple sugar, and nearly pulled out every tooth I had in my head with maple-wax, and I
have even gone so far as to have maple syrup on pancakes. It's good, too. The maple syrup came
on the table in a sort of a glass flagon with a metal lid to it, and it was considered the
height of bad manners to lick off the last drop of syrup that hung on the nose of the flagon.
And yet it must not be allowed to drip on the table-cloth. It is a pity we can't get any more
maple syrup nowadays, but I don't feel so bad about the loss of it, as I do to think what awful
liars people can be, declaring on the label that 'deed and double, 'pon their word and honor,
it is pure, genuine, unadulterated maple syrup, when they know just as well as they know anything
that it is only store-sugar boiled up with maple chips.

Along about the same time, the boys come home with a ring of mud around their mouths, and exhaling
spicy breaths like those which blow o'er Ceylon's isle in the hymn-book. They bear a bundle
of roots, whose thick, pink hide mother whittles off with the butcher-knife and sets to steep.
Put away the store tea and coffee. To-night as we drink the reddish aromatic brew we return,
not only to our own young days, but to the young days of the nation when our folks moved to
the West in a covered wagon; when grandpap, only a little boy then, about as big as Charley
there, got down the rifle and killed the bear that had climbed into the hog-pen; when they
found old Cherry out in the timber with her calf between her legs, and two wolves lying where
she had horned them to death--we return to-night to the high, heroic days of old, when our
forefathers conquered the wilderness and our foremothers reared the families that peopled it.
This cup of sassafras to-night in their loving memory! Earth, rest easy on their moldering bones!

Some there be that still take stock in the groundhog. I don't believe he knows anything about
it. And I believe that any animal that had the sense that he is reputed to have would not have
remained a mere ground-hog all these years. At least not in this country. Anyhow, it's a long
ways ahead, six weeks is, especially at the time when you do wish so fervently that it would
come spring. We keep on shoveling coal in the furnace, and carrying out ashes, and longing
and crying: "Oh, for pity's sakes! When is this going to stop?" And then, one morning, we awaken
with a start Wha--what? Sh! Keep still, can't you? There is a more canorous and horn-like quality
to the crowing of Gildersleeve's rooster, and his hens chant cheerily as they kick the litter
about. But it wasn't these cheerful sounds that wakened us with a start. There! Hear that?
Hear it? Two or three long-drawn, reedy notes, and an awkward boggle at a trill, but oh, how
sweet! How sweet! It is the song-sparrow, blessed bird! It won't be long now; it won't be long.

The snow fort in the back-yard still sulks there black and dirty. "I'll go when I get good
and ready, and not before," it seems to say. Other places the thinner snow has departed and
left behind it mud that seizes upon your overshoe with an "Oh, what's your rush?" In the middle
of the road it lies as smooth as pancake-batter. A load of building stone stalls, and people
gather on the sidewalk to tell the teamster quietly and unostentatiously that he ought to have
had more sense than to pile it on like that with the roads the way they are. Every time the
cruel whip comes down and the horses dance under it, the women peering out of the front windows
wince, and cluck "Tchk! Ain't it terrible? He ought to be arrested." This way and that the
team turns and tugs, but all in vain. Somebody puts on his rubber boots and wades out to help,
fearing not the muddy spokes. Yo hee! Yo hee! No use. He talks it over with the teamster. You
can hear him say: "Well, suit yourself. If you want to stay here all night."

And then the women exult: "Goody! Goody! Serves him right. Now he has to take off some of the
stone. Lazy man's load!"

The mother of children flies to the back-door when school lets out. "Don't you come in here
with all that mud!" she squalls excitedly. "Look at you! A peck o' dirt on each foot. Right
in my nice clean kitchen that I just scrubbed. Go 'long now and clean your shoes. Go 'long,
I tell you. Slave and slave for you and that's all the thanks I get. You'd keep the place looking
like a hogpen, if I wasn't at you all the time. I never saw such young ones since the day I
was made. Never. Whoopin' and hollerin' and trackin' in and out. It's enough to drive a body
crazy."

(Don't you care. It's just her talk. If it isn't one thing it's another, cleaning your shoes,
or combing your hair, or brushing your clothes, or using your handkerchief, or shutting the
door softly, or holding your spoon with your fingers and not in your fist, or keeping your
finger out of your glass when you drink--something the whole blessed time. Forever and eternally
picking at a fellow about something. And saying the same thing over and over so many times.
That's the worst of it!)

Pap and mother read over the seed catalogues, all about "warm, light soils," and "hardy annuals,"
and "sow in drills four inches apart." It kind of hurries things along when you do that. In
the south window of the kitchen is a box full of black dirt in which will you look out what
you're doing? Little more and you'd have upset it. There are tomato seeds in that, I'll have
you know. Oh, yes, government seeds. Somebody sends 'em, I don't know who. Congressman, I guess,
whoever he is. I don't pretend to keep track of 'em. And say. When was this watered last? There
it is. Unless I stand over you every minute--My land! If there's anything done about this house
I've got to do it.

Between the days when it can't make up its mind whether to snow or to rain, and tries to do
both at once, comes a day when it is warm enough (almost) to go without an overcoat. The Sunday
following you can hardly hear what the preacher has to say for the whooping and barking. The
choir members have cough drops in their cheeks when they stand up to sing, and everybody stops
in at the drug store with: "Say, Doc, what's good for a cold?"

Eggs have come down. Yesterday they were nine for a quarter; to-day they're ten. Gildersleeve
wants a dollar for a setting of eggs, but he'll let you have the same number of eggs for thirty
cents if you'll wait till he can run a needle into each one. So afraid you'll raise chickens
of your own.

Excited groups gather about rude circles scratched in the mud, and there is talk of "pureys,"
and "reals," and "aggies," and "commies," and "fen dubs!" There is a rich click about the bulging
pockets of the boys, and every so often in school time something drops on the floor and rolls
noisily across the room. When Miss Daniels asks: "Who did that?" the boys all look so astonished.
Who did what, pray tell? And when she picks up a marble and inquires: "Whose is this?" nobody
can possibly imagine whose it might be, least of all the boy whose most highly-prized shooter
it is. At this season of the year, too, there is much serious talk as to the exceeding sinfulness
of "playing for keeps." The little boys, in whose thumbs lingers the weakness of the arboreal
ape, their ancestor, and who "poke" their marbles, drink in eagerly the doctrine that when
you win a marble you ought to give it back, but the hard-eyed fellows, who can plunk it every
time, sit there and let it go in one ear and out the other, there being a hole drilled through
expressly for the purpose. What? Give up the rewards of skill? Ah, g'wan!

The girls, even to those who have begun to turn their hair up under, are turning the rope and
dismally chanting: "All in together, pigs in the meadow, nineteen twenty, leave the rope empty,"
or whatever the rune is.

It won't be long now. It won't be long.  Arise my love, my fair one
   and come away."

                  THE SONG OF SOLOMON.

Out in the woods the leaves that rustled so bravely when we shuffled our feet through them
last fall are sodden and matted. It is warm in the woods, for the sun strikes down through
the bare branches, and the cold wind is fended off. The fleshy lances of the spring beauty
have stabbed upward through the mulch, and a tiny cup, delicately veined with pink, hangs its
head bashfully. Anemones on brown wire stems aspire without a leaf, and in moist patches are
May pinks, the trailing arbutus of the grown-ups. As we carry home a bunch, the heads all lopping
every way like the heads of strangled babies, we can almost hear behind us in the echoing forests
a long, heart-broken moan, as of Rachel mourning for her children, and will not be comforted
because they are not. The wild flowers don't look so pretty in the tin cups of water as they
did back in the woods. There is something cheap and common about them. Throw 'em out. The poor
plants that planned through all the ages how to attract the first smart insects of the season,
and trick them into setting the seeds for next years' flowers did not reckon that these very
means whereby they hoped to rear a family would prove their undoing at the hands of those who
plume themselves a little on their refinement, they "are so fond of flowers."

Old Winter hates to give up that he is beaten. It's a funny thing, but when you hear a person
sing, "Good-a-by, Summer, good-a-by, good-a-by," you always feel kind of sad and sorry. It's
going, the time of year when you can stay out of doors most of the time, when you can go in
swimming, and the Sunday-school picnic, and the circus, and play base-ball and camp out, and
there's no school, and everything nice, and watermelons, and all like that. Good-by, good-by,
and you begin to sniff a little. The departure of summer is dignified and even splendid, but
the earth looks so sordid and draggle-trailed when winter goes, that onions could not bring
a tear. Old winter likes to tease. Aha! You thought I was gone, did you? "Not yet, my child,
not yet!" And he sends us huckleberry-colored clouds from the northwest, from which snow-flakes
big as copper cents solemnly waggle down, as if they really expected the schoolboy to shout:
"It snows! Hurrah!" and makes his shout heard through parlor and hall. But they only leave
a few dark freckles on the garden beds. Alas, yes! There is no light without its shadow, no
joy without its sorrow tagging after. It isn't all marbles and play in the gladsome springtide.
Bub has not only to spade up the garden--there is some sense in that--but he has to dig up
the flower beds, and help his mother set out her footy, trifling plants.

The robins have come back, our robins that nest each spring in the old seek-no-further. To
the boy grunting over the spading-fork presents himself Cock Robin. "How about it? Hey? All
right? Hey?" he seems to ask, cocking his head, and flipping out the curt inquiries with tail-jerks.
Glad of any excuse to stop work, the boy stands statue-still, while Mr. Robin drags from the
upturned clods the long, elastic fish-worms, and then with a brief "Chip!" flashes out of sight.
Be right still now. Don't move. Here he comes again, and his wife with him. They fly down,
he all eager and alert to wait upon her, she whining and scolding. She doesn't think it's much
of a place for worms. And there's that boy yonder. He's up to some devilment or other, she
just knows. She oughtn't to have come away and left those eggs. They'll get cold now, she just
knows they will. Anything might happen to them when she 's away, and then he 'll be to blame,
for he coaxed her. He knows she told him she didn't want to come. But he would have it. For
half a cent she'd go back right now. And, Heavens above! Is he going to be all 'day picking
up a few little worms?

She cannot finish her sentences for her gulps, for he is tamping down in her insides the reluctant
angleworms that do not want to die, two or three writhing in his bill at once, until he looks
like Jove's eagle with its mouth full of thunderbolts. And all the time he is chip-chipping
and flirting his tail, and saying: "How's that? All right? Hey? Here's another. How's that?
All right? Hey? Open now. Like that? Here's one. Oh, a beaut! Here's two fat ones? Great? Hey?
Here y' go. Touch the spot? Hey? More? Sure Mike. Lots of 'em. Wide now. Boss. Hey? Wait a
second--yes, honey. In a second.... I got him. Here's the kind you like. Oh, yes, do. Do take
one more. Oh, you better."

"D' ye think I'm made o' rubber?" she snaps at him. "I know I'll have indigestion, and you'll
be to bla--Mercy land! Them eggs!" and she gathers up her skirts and flits. He escorts her
gallantly, but returns to pick a few for himself, and to cock his head knowingly at the boy,
as much as to say: "Man of family, by Ned. Or--or soon will be. Oh, yes, any minute now, any
minute."

And if I remember rightly, he even winks at the boy with a wink whose full significance the
boy does not learn till many years after when it dawns upon him that it meant: "You got to
make allowances for 'em. Especially at such a time. All upset, you know, and worried. Oh, yes.
You got to; you got to make allowances for 'em."

Day by day the air grows balmier and softer on the cheek. Out in the garden, ranks of yellow-green
pikes stand stiffly at "Present. Hump!" and rosettes of the same color crumple through the
warm soil, unconsciously preparing for a soul tragedy. For an evening will come when a covered
dish will be upon the supper-table, and when the cover is taken off, a subtle fragrance will
betray, if the sense of sight do not, that the chopped-up lettuces and onions are in a marsh
of cider vinegar, demanding to be eaten. And your big sister will squall out in comic distress:
"Oh, ma! You are too mean for anything! Why did you have 'em tonight? I told you Mr. Dellabaugh
was going to call, and you know how I love spring onions! Well, I don't care. I'm just going
to, anyhow."

Things come with such a rush now, it is hard to tell what happens in its proper order. The
apple-trees blossom out like pop-corn over the hot coals. The Japan quince repeats its farfamed
imitation of the Burning Bush of Moses; the flowering currants are strung with knobs of vivid
yellow fringe; the dead grass from the front yard, the sticks and stalks and old tomato vines,
the bits of rag and the old bones that Guess has gnawed upon are burning in the alley, and
the tormented smoke is darting this way and that, trying to get out from under the wind that
seeks to flatten it to the ground. All this is spring, and--and yet it isn't. The word is not
yet spoken that sets us free to live the outdoor life; we are yet prisoners and captives of
the house.

But, one day in school, the heat that yesterday was nice and cozy becomes too dry and baking
for endurance. The young ones come in from recess red, not with the brilliant glow of winter,
but a sort of scalded red. They juke their heads forward to escape their collars' moist embrace;
they reach their hands back of them to pull their clinging winter underwear away. They fan
themselves with joggerfies, and puff out: "Phew!" and look pleadingly at the shut windows.
One boy, bolder than his fellows, moans with a suffering lament: "Miss Daniels, cain't we have
the windows open? It's awful hot!" Frightful dangers lurk in draughts. Fresh air will kill
folks. So, not until the afternoon is the prayer answered. Then the outer world, so long excluded,
enters once more the school-room life. The mellifluous crowing of distant roosters, the rhythmic
creaking of a thirsty pump, the rumble of a loaded wagon, the clinking of hammers at the blacksmith
shop, the whistle of No. 3 away below town, all blend together in the soft spring air into
one lulling harmony.

Winter's alert activity is gone. Who cares for grades and standings now? The girls, that always
are so smart, gape lazily, and stare at vacancy wishing.... They don't know what they wish,
but if He had a lot of money, why, then they could help the poor, and all like that, and have
a new dress every day.

James Sackett--his real name is Jim Bag, but teacher calls him James Sackett--has his face
set toward: "A farmer sold 16 2-3 bu. wheat for 66 7-8 c. per bu.; 19 2-9 bu. oats for," etc.,
etc., but his soul is far away in Cummins's woods, where there is a robbers' cave that he,
and Chuck Higgins, and Bunt Rogers, and Turkey-egg McLaughlin are going to dig Saturday afternoons
when the chores are done. They are going to--Here Miss Daniels should slip up behind him and
snap his ear, but she, too, is far away in spirit. Her beau is coming after supper to take
her buggy-riding. She wonders.... She wonders.... Will she have to teach again next fall? She
wonders....

Wait. Wait but a moment. A subtle change is coming.

The rim of the revolving year has a brighter and a darker half, a joyous and a somber half,
Autumnal splendors cannot cheer the melancholy that we feel when summer goes from us, but when
summer comes again the heart leaps up in glee to meet it. Wait but a moment now. Wait.

The distant woodland swims in an amethystine haze. A long and fluting note, honey-sweet as
it were blown upon a bottle, comes to us from far. It is the turtle-dove. The blood beats in
our ears. Arise, my love, my fair one, and come away.

So gentle it can scarce be felt, a waft of air blows over us, the first sweet breath of summer.
A veil of faint and subtle perfume drifts around us. The vines with the tender grape give a
good smell. And evermore as its enchantment is cast about us we are as once we were when first
we came beneath its spell; we are by the smokehouse at the old home place; we stand in shoes
whose copper toes wink and glitter in the sunlight, a gingham apron sways in the soft breeze,
and on the green, upspringing turf dances the shadow of a tasseled cap. Life was all before
us then. Please God, it is not all behind us now. Please God, our best and wisest days are
yet to come the days when we shall do the work that is worthy of us. Dear one, mother of my
children here and Yonder--and Yonder--the best and wisest days are yet to come. Arise, my love,
my fair one, and come away.

THE SWIMMING-HOLE

It is agreed by all, I think, that the two happiest periods in a man's
life are his boyhood and about ten years from now.  As it is just what I want to
     say, I'm going to let it stand as it is.]

If I remember right, the hymn went to the tune of "Ariel," and I can see John Snodgrass, the
precentor, sneaking a furtive C from his pitch-pipe, finding E flat and then sol, and standing
up to lead the singing, paddling the air gently with: Down, left, sing. Well, no matter about
that now. What I am trying to get at, is that we have all a lost Eden in the past and a Paradise
Regained in the future. 'Twixt two unbounded seas of happiness we stand on the narrow and arid
sand-spit of the present and cast a wishful eye. In hot weather particularly the wishful eye,
when directed toward the lost Eden of boyhood, lights on and lingers near the Old Swimming-hole.

I suppose boys do grow up into a reasonable enjoyment of their faculties in big seaside cities
and on inland farms where there is no accessible body of water larger than a wash-tub, but
I prefer to believe that the majority of our adult male population in youth went in swimming
in the river up above the dam, where the big sycamore spread out its roots a-purpose for them
to climb out on without muddying their feet. Some, I suppose, went in at the Copperas Banks
below town, where the current had dug a hole that was "over head and hands," but that was pretty
far and almost too handy for the boys from across the tracks.

The wash-tub fellows will have to be left out of it entirely. It was an inferior, low-grade
Eden they had anyhow, and if they lost it, why, they 're not out very much that I can see.
And I rather pity the boys that lived by the sea. They had a good time in their way, I suppose,
with sailboats and things, but the ocean is a poor excuse for a swimming-hole. They say salt-water
is easier to swim in; kind of bears you up more. Maybe so, but I never could see it; and even
so, if it does, that slight advantage is more than made up for by the manifold disadvantages
entailed. First place, there's the tide to figure on. If it was high tide last Wednesday at
half-past ten in the morning, what time will it be high tide today? A boy can't always go when
he wants to, and it is no fun to trudge away down to the beach only to find half a mile of
soft, gawmy mud between him and the water. And he can't go in wherever it is deep enough and
nobody lives near. People own the beach away out under water, and where he is allowed to go
in may be a perfect submarine jungle of eel-grass or bottomed with millions of razor-edged
barnacles that rip the soles of his feet into bleeding rags. Then, too, when one swims, more
or less water gets into one's nose and mouth. River-water may not be exactly what a fastidious
person would choose to drink habitually, but there is this in its favor as compared with sea-water:
it will stay down after it is swallowed; also, it doesn't gum up your hair; also, if you want
to take a cake of soap with you, all you have to look out for is that you don't lose the soap.
Nobody tries to use toilet soap in sea-water more than once.

And surf-bathing! If there is a bigger swindle than surf-bathing, the United States Postal
authorities haven't heard of it yet. It is all very well for the women. They can hang on to
the ropes and squeal at the big waves and have a perfectly lovely time. Some of the really
daring ones crouch down till they actually get their shoulder-blades wet. You have to see that
for yourself to believe it, but it is as true as I am sitting here. They do so--some of them.
But good land! There's no swimming in surf-bathing, no fun for a man. The water is all bouncing
up and down. One second it is over head and hands, and the next second it is about to your
knees, with a malicious undertow tickling your feet and tugging at your ankles; and growling:
"Aw, you think you're some, don't you? Yes. Well, for half a cent wouldn't take you out and
drown you." And I don't like the looks of that boat patrolling up and down between the ropes
and the raft. It is too suggestive, too like the skeleton at the banquet, too blunt a reminder
that maybe what the undertow growls is not all a bluff.

Another drawback to the ocean as a swimming-hole is that the distances are all wrong. If you
want to go to the other side of the "crick" you must take a steamboat. There is no such thing
as bundling up your clothes and holding them out of water with one hand while you swim with
the other, perhaps dropping your knife or necktie in transit. I have never been on the other
side of the "crick" even on a steamboat, but I am pretty sure that there are no yellow-hammers'
nests over there or watermelon patches. There were above the dam. At the seaside they give
you as an objective point a raft, anchored at what seems only a little distance from where
it gets deep enough to swim in, but which turns out to be a mighty far ways when the water
bounces so. When you get there, blowing like a quarter-horse and weighing nine tons as you
lift yourself out, there is nothing to do but let your feet hang over while you get rested
enough to swim back. It wasn't like that above the dam.

I tell you the ocean is altogether too big. Some profess to admire it on that account, but
it is my belief that they do it to be in style. I admit that on a bright, blowy day, when you
can sit and watch the shining sails far out on the horizon's rim, it does look right nice,
but I account for it in this way: it puts you in mind of some of these expensive oil paintings,
and that makes you think it is kind of high class. And another thing: It recalls the picture
in the joggerfy that proved the earth was round because the hull of a ship disappears before
the sails, as it would if the ship was going over a hill. You sweep your eye along where the
sky and water meet, and it seems you can note the curvature of the earth. Maybe it is that,
and maybe it is all in your own eye. I am not saying.

There are good points, too, about the sea on a clear night when the moon is full; or when there
is no moon, and the phosphorescence in the water shows, as if mermaids' children were playing
with blue-tipped matches. I like to see it when a gale is blowing, and the white caps race.
Yes, and when it is a flat calm, with here and there a tiny cat's-paw crinkling the water into
gray-green crepe. And also when--but there! it is no use cataloguing all kinds of weather and
all hours of the day and night. What I don't approve of in the ocean is its everlasting bigness.
It is so discouraging. It makes a body seem so no-account and insignificant. You come away
feeling meaner than a sheep-killing dog. "Oh, what's the use?" you say to yourself. "What's
the use of my breaking my neck to do anything or be anybody? Before I was born--before History
began--before any foot of being that could be called a man trod these sands, the waves beat
thus the pulse of time. When I am gone--when all that man has made, that seems so firm and
everlasting, shall have crumbled into the earth, whence it sprang, this wave, so momentary
and so eternal, shall still surge up the slanting beach, and trail its lacy mantle in retreat....
O spare me a little, that I may recover my strength before I go hence, and be no more seen."

And that's no way for a man to feel. He ought to be confident and sure of himself. If he hasn't
yet done all that he laid out to do, he should feel that it is in him to do it, and that he
will before the time comes for him to go, and that when it is done it shall be orth while.

It is the ocean's everlasting bigness that makes it so cold to swim in. At the seaside bathing
pavilions they have a blackboard whereon they chalk up "70" or "72" or whatever they think
folks will like. They never say in so many words that a man went down into the water and held
a thermometer in it long enough to get the true temperature, but they lead you to believe it.
All I have to say is that they must have very optimistic thermometers. I just wish some of
these poor little seashore boys could have a chance to try the Old Swimming-hole up above the
dam. Certainly along about early going-barefoot time the water is a little cool, but you take
it in the middle of August--ah, I tell you! When you come out of the water then you don't have
to run up and down to get your blood in circulation or pile the warm sand on yourself or hunt
for the steam-room. Only thing is, if you stay in all day, as you want to, it thins your blood,
and you get the "fever 'n' ager." But you can stay in as long as you want to, that 's the point,
without your lips turning the color of a chicken's gizzard.

And there's this about the Old Swimming-hole, or there was in my day: There were no women and
girls fussing around aid squalling: "Now, you stop splashin' water on me! Quit it now! Quee-yut!"
I don't think t looks right for women folks to have anything to do with water in large quantities.
On a sail-boat, now, they are the very--but perhaps we had better not go into that. At a picnic,
indeed, trey used to take off their shoes and stockings and paddle their feet in the water,
but that was as much as ever they did. They never thought of going in swimming. Even at the
seashore, now when Woman is so emancipated, they go bathing not swimming. I don't like to see
a woman swim any more than I like to see a woman smoke a cigar. And for the same reason. It
is more fun than she is entitled to. A woman's place is home minding the baby, and cooking
the meals. Nothing would do her but she had to be born a woman, she had the same liberty of
choice that we men had. Very well, I say, let her take the consequencies.

It is only natural, then, that she should refuse to let her boys go swimming. She pays off
her grudge that way. Just because she can't go herself she is bound the they shan't either.
She says they will get drowned, but we know about that. It is only an excuse to keep them from
having a little fun. She has to say something. They won't get drowned. Why, the idea! They
haven't the least intention of any such thing.

"Well, but Robbie, supposing you couldn't help yourself?"

"How couldn't help myself?"

"Why, get the cramps. Suppose you got the cramps, then what?"

"Aw, pshaw! Cramps nothin'! They hain't no sich of a thing. And, anyhow, if I did get 'em,
wouldn't jist kick 'em right out. This way."

"Now, Robbie, you know you did have a terrible cramp in your foot just only the other night.
Don't you remember?"

"Aw, that! That ain't nothin'. That ain't the cramps that drownds people. Didn't I tell you
wouldn't fist kick it right out? That's what they all do when they git the cramps. But they
don't nobody git 'em now no more."

"I don't want you to go in the water and get drowned. You know you can't swim."

This is too much. Oh, this is rank injustice! Worse yet, it is bad logic.

"How 'm I ever goin' to learn if you don't let me go to learn?"

"Well, you can't go, and that's the end of it."

Isn't that just like a woman? Perfectly unreasonable! Dear! dear!

"Now, Ma, listen here. S'posin' we was all goin' some place on a steamboat, me and you and
Pa and the baby and all of us, and--"

"That won't ever happen, I guess."

"CAN'T YOU LET ME TELL YOU? And s'posin' the boat was to sink, and I could swim and save you
from drown--"

"You're not going swimming, and that's all there is about it."

"Other boys' mas lets them go. I don't see why I can't go."

No answer.

"Ma, won't you let me go? I won't get drowned, hope to die if I do. Ma, won't you let me go?
Ma! Ma-a!--Maw-ah!"

"Stop yelling at me that way. Good land! Do you think I'm deaf?"

"Won't you let me go? Please, won't you let--"

"No, I won't. I told you I wouldn't, and I mean it. You might as well make up your mind to
stay at home, for you're--not--going. Hush up now. This instant, sir! Robbie, do you hear me?
Stop crying. Great baby! wouldn't be ashamed to cry that way, as big as you are!"

Mean old Ma! Guess she'd cry too'f she could see the other kids that waited for him to go and
ask her--if she could see them moving off, tired of waiting. They're 'most up to Lincoln Avenue.

"Oooooooooooo-hoo--hoo--hoo--hoohoooooooooo-ah! I wanna gow-ooooo."

"Did you hoe that corn your father told you to?"

"Oooooooooooo-hoo-hoo-hoo-oooooooo! I wanna gow-ooooooo."

"Robbie! Did you hoe that corn?"

The last boy, the one with the stone-bruise on his heel, limps around the corner. They have
all the fun. His ma won't let him go barefoot because it spreads his feet.

"Robbie! Answer me."

"Mam?"

"Did you hoe that corn your father told you to?"

"Yes mam."

"All of it? Did you hoe all of it?"

"Prett' near all of it." Well begun is half done. One hill is a good beginning, and half done
is pretty nearly all.

"Go and finish it."

"I will if you'll let me go swimmin'."

It flashes upon him that even now by running he can catch up with the other fellows. He can
finishing the hoeing when he gets back.

"You'll do it anyhow, and you're not going swimming. Now, that's the end of it. You march out
to that garden this minute, or I'll take a stick to you. And don't let me hear another whimper
out of you. Robbie! Come back here and shut that door properly. I shall tell your father how
you have acted. Wouldn't be ashamed--I'd be ashamed to show temper that way."

It says for children to obey their parents, but if more boys minded their mothers there would
be fewer able to swim. While I shrink with horror from even seeming to encourage dropping the
hoe when the sewing-machine gets to going good, by its thunderous spinning throwing up an impervious
wall of sound to conceal retreat into the back alley, across the street, up the alley back
of Alexander's, and so on up to Fountain Avenue in time to catch up with the gang, still I
regard swimming as an exercise of the extremest value in the development of the growing boy.
It builds up every muscle. It is particularly beneficial to the lungs. To have a good pair
of lungs is the same thing as having a good constitution. It is nice to have a healthy boy,
and it is nice to have an obedient boy, but if one must choose which he will have--that's a
very difficult question. I think it should be left to the casuists. Nevertheless, now is the
boy's only chance to grow. He will have abundant opportunities to learn obedience.

In the last analysis there are two ways of acquiring the art of swimming, the sudden way and
the slow way. I have never personally known anybody that learned in the sudden way, but I have
heard enough about it to describe it. It it's the quickest known method. One day the boy its
among the gibbering white monkeys at the river's edge, content to splash in the water that
comes but half way to his crouching knees. The next day he swims with the big boys as bold
as any of them. In the meantime his daddy has taken him out in a boat, out where it is deep--Oh!
Ain't it deep there?--and thrown him overboard. The boat is kept far enough away to be out
of the boy's reach and yet near enough to be right there in case anything happens. (I like
that "in case anything happens." It sounds so cheerful.) It being what Aristotle defines as
"a ground-hog case," the boy learns to swim immediately. He has to.

It seems reasonable that he should. But still and all, I don't just fancy it. Once when a badly
scared man grabbed me by the arms in deep water I had the fear of drowning take hold of my
soul, and it isn't a nice feeling at all. Somehow when I hear folks praising up this method
of teaching a child to swim, I seem to hear the little fellow's screams that he doesn't want
to be thrown into the water. I can see him clinging to his father for protection, and finding
that heart hard and unpitying. I can see his fingernails whiten with his clutch on anything
that gives a hand-hold. His father strips off his grip, at first with boisterous laughter,
and then with hot anger at the little fool. He calls him a cry-baby, and slaps his mouth for
him, to stop his noise. The little body sprawls in the air and strikes with a loud splash,
and the child's gargling cry is strangled by the water whitened by his mad clawings. I can
see his head come up, his eyes bulging, and his face distorted with the awful fear that is
ours by the inheritance of ages. He will sink and come up again, not three times, but a hundred
times. Eventually he will win safe to shore, panting and trembling, his little heart knocking
against his ribs, it is true, but lord of the water from that time forth. It is a very fine
method, yes... but... well, if it was my boy I had just as lief he tarried with the little
white monkeys at the river's edge. Let him squeal and crouch and splash and learn how to half
drown the other fellow by shooting water at him with the heel of his hand. Let him alone. He
will be watching the others swim. He will edge out a little farther and kick up his heels while
with his hands he holds on the ground. He will edge out a little farther still and try to keep
his feet on the bottom and swim with his hands. Be patient in his attempt to combine the two
methods of travel. He is not the only one that fears to be one thing or the other, and regards
a mixture of both as the safest way to get along.

No, I cannot say that I wholly approve of the sudden method of learning to swim. It has the
advantange of lumping all the scares of a lifetime into one and having it over with, and yet
I don't suppose the scare of being thrown into the water by one's daddy is really greater than
being ducked in mid-stream by some hulking, cackle-voiced big boy. It seems greater though,
I suppose, because a fellow cannot very well relieve his feelings by throwing stones at his
daddy and bawling: "Goldarn you anyhow, you--you big stuff! I'll get hunk with you, now you
see if I don't!" Here would be just the place to make the little boy tie knots in the big boy's
shirt-sleeves, soak the knots in water, and pound them between stones. But that is kind of
common, I think. They told about it at the swimming-hole above the dam, but nobody was mean
enough to do it. Maybe they did it down at the Copperas Banks below town. The boys from across
the tracks went there, a race apart, whom we feared, and who hated us, if the legend chalked
up on the fences "DAMB THE PRODESTANCE," meant anything.

Under the slow method of learning to swim one had leisure to observe the different fashions--dog-fashion
and cow-fashion, steamboat-fashion, and such. The little kids and beginners swam dog-fashion,
which on that account was considered contemptible. The fellow was sneered at that screwed up
his face as if in a cloud of suffocating dust, and fought the water with noise and fury, putting
forth enough energy to carry him a mile, and actually going about two feet if he were headed
down stream. Scientific men say that the use of the limbs, first on one side and then on the
other, is instinctive to all creatures of the monkey tribe. That is the way they do in an emergency,
since that is the way to scramble up among the tree limbs. I know that it is the easiest way
to swim, and the least effective. When the arms are extended together in the breast stroke,
it is as much superior to dogfashion as man is superior to the ape. I have always thought that
to swim thus with steady and deliberate arm action, the water parting at the chin and rising
just to the root of the underlip, was the most dignified and manly attitude the human being
could put himself in. Cow-fashion was a burlesque of this, and the swimmer reared out of water
with each stroke, creating tidal waves. It was thought to be vastly comic. Steamboat-fashion
was where a fellow swam on his back, keeping his body up by a gentle, secret paddling motion
with his hands, while with his feet he lashed the water into foam, like some river stern-wheeler.
If he could cry: "Hoo! hoo! hoo!" in hoarse falsetto to mimic the whistle, it was an added charm.

It was a red-headed boy from across the tracks on his good behavior at the swimming-hole above
the dam that I first saw swim hand-over-hand, or "sailor-fashion" as we called it, rightly
or wrongly, I know not. I can hear now the crisp, staccato little smack his hand gave the water
as he reached forward.

It has ever since been my envy and despair. It is so knowing, so "sporty." I class it with
being able to wear a pink-barred shirt front with a diamond-cluster pin in it; with having
my clothes so nobby and stylish that one thread more of modishness would be beyond the human
power to endure; with being genuinely fond of horseracing; with being a first-class poker player,
I mean a really first-class one; with being able to swallow a drink of whisky as if I liked
it instead of having to choke it down with a shudder; with knowing truly great men like Fitzsimmons,
or whoever it is that is great now, so as to be able to slap him on the back and say: "Why,
hello! Bob, old boy, how are you?" with being delighted with the company of actors, instead
of finding them as thin as tissue-paper--what wouldn't I give if I could be like that? My life
has been a sad one. But I might find some comfort in it yet if I coin only get that natty little
spat on the water when I lunge forward swimming overhand.

We used to think the Old Swimming-hole was a bully place, but I know better now. The sycamore
leaned well out over the water, and there was a trapeze on the branch that grew parallel with
the shore, but the water near it was never deep enough to dive into. And that is another occasion
of humiliation. I can't dive worth a cent. When I go down to the slip behind Fulton Market--they
sell fish at Fulton Market; just follow your nose and you can't miss it--and see the rows of
little white monkeys doing nothing but diving, I realize that the Old Swimming-hole with all
its beauties, its green leafiness, its clean, long grass to lie upon while drying in the sun,
or to pull out and bite off the tender, chrome-yellow ends, was but a provincial, country-fake
affair. There were no watermelon rinds there, no broken berry-baskets, no orange peel, no nothing.
All the fish in it were just common live ones. And there was no diving. But at the real, proper
city swimming-place all the little white monkeys can dive. Each is gibbering and shrieking:
"Hey, Chim-meel Chimmee! Hey, Chim-mee! Chimmee! Hey, CHIM-MEEEE! How'ss t 'iss?" crossing
himself and tipping over head first, coming up so as to "lay his hair," giving a shaking snort
to clear his nose and mouth of water, regaining the ladder with three overhand strokes (every
one of them with that natty little spat that I can't get), climbing up to the string-piece
and running for Chimmy, red-eyed, shivering, and dripping, to ask: "How wass Cat?" And I can't
dive for a cent--that is, I can't dive from a great elevation. I set my teeth and vow I just
will dive from ten feet above the water, and every time it gets down to a poor, picayune dive
off the lowest round of the ladder. I blame my early education for it. I was taught to be careful
about pitching myself head foremost on rocks and broken bottles. I used to think it was a fine
swimming-hole, and that I was having a grand, good time, well worth any ordinary licking; but
now that I have traveled around and seen things, I know that it was a poor, provincial, country-jake
affair after all. The first time I swam across and back without "letting down" it was certainly
an immense place, but when I went back there a year ago last summer--why, pshaw! it wasn't
anything at all. It was a dry summer, I admit, but not as dry as all that. A poor, pitiful,
provincial, two-for-a cent--and yet... and yet... And yet I sat there after I had dressed,
and mused upon the former things--the life that was, but never could be again; the Eden before
whose gate was a flaming sword turning every way. The night was still and moonless. The Milky
Way slanted across the dark dome above. It was far from the street lamps that greened among
the leafy maples in the silent streets. Gushes of air stirred the fluttering sycamore, and
whispered in the tall larches that marched down the boundary line of the Blymire property.
The last group of swimmers had turned into the road from around the clump of willows at the
end of the pasture. The boy that is always the last one had nearly caught up with the others,
for the velvet pat of his bare feet in the deep dust was slowing. Their eager chatter softened
and softened, until it blended with the sounds of night that verge on silence, the fall of
a leaf, the up-springing of a trodden tuft of grass, the sleepy twitter of a dreaming bird,
and the shrilling of locusts patiently turning a creaking wheel. I heard the thump of hoofs
and buggy wheels booming in the covered bridge, and a shudder came upon me that was not all
the chill of falling dew. Again I was a little boy, standing in a circle of my fellows and
staring at something pale, stretched out upon the ground. Ben Snyder had dived for It and found
It and brought It up and laid It on the long, clean grass. Some one had said we ought to get
a barrel and roll It on the barrel, but there was none there. And then some one said: "No,
it was against the law to touch anything like That before the Coroner came." So, though we
wished that something might be done, we were glad the law stepped in and stringently forbade
us touching what our flesh crept to think of touching. No longer existed for us the boy that
had the spy-glass and the "Swiss Family Robinson." Something cold and terrible had taken his
place, something that could not see, and yet looked upward with unwinking eyes. The gloom deepened,
and the dew began to fall. We could hear the boy that ran for the doctor whimpering a long
way off. We wanted to go home, and yet we dared not. Something might get us. And we could not
leave That alone in the dark with It's eyes wide open. The locusts in the grass turned and
turned their creaking wheel, and the wind whispered in the tall larches. We heard the thump
of hoofs and wheels booming in the covered bridge. It was the doctor, come too late. He put
his head down to It's bosom (the cold trickled down our backs), and then he said it was too
late. If we had known enough, he said, we might have saved him. We slunk away. It was very
lonesome. We kept together, and spoke low. We stopped to hearken for a moment outside the house
where the boy had lived that had the spy-glass and the "Swiss Family Robinson." Some one had
told his mother. And then, with a great and terrible fear within us, we ran each to his own
home, swiftly and silently. We knew now why mother did not want us to go swimming.

But the next afternoon when Chuck Grove whistled in our back alley and held up two fingers,
I dropped the hoe and went with him. It was bright daylight then, and that is different from
the night.

THE FIREMEN'S TOURNAMENT

It isn't only Christmas that comes but once a year and when it comes it brings good cheer;
it's any festival that is worth a hill of beans, High School Commencement, Fourth of July,
Sunday-school excursion, Election' bonfire, Thanksgiving Day (a nice day and one whereon you
can eat roast turkey till you can't choke down another bite, and pumpkin-pie, and cranberry
sauce. Tell you!)--but about the best in the whole lot, and something the city folks don't
have, is Firemen's Tournament. That comes once a year, generally about the time for putting
up tomatoes.

The first that most of us know about it is when we see the bills up, telling how much excursion
rates will be to our town from Ostrander and Mt. Victory, and Wapatomica, and New Berlin, and
Foster's, and Caledonia, and Mechanicsburg--all the towns around on both the railroads. But
before that there was the Citizens' Committee, and then the Executive Committee, and the Finance
Committee, and the Committee on Press and Publicity, and Printing and Prizes, and Decorations
and Badges, and Music, and Reception to Firemen, and Reception to Guests--as many committees
as there are nails in the fence from your house to mine. And these committees come around and
tell you that we want to show the folks that we've got public spirit in our town, some spunk,
some git-up to us. We want our town to contrast favorably with Caledonia where they had the
Tournament last year. We want to put it all over the Caledonia people (they think they're so
smart), and we can do it, too, if everybody will take a-holt and help. Well, we want all we
can get. We expect a pretty generous offer from you, for one. Man that has as pretty and tasty
got-up store as you have, and does the business that you do, ought to show his appreciation
of the town and try to help along.... Oh, anything you're a mind to give. 'Most anything comes
in handy for prizes. But what we principally need is cash, ready cash. You see, there's a good
deal of expense attached to an enterprise of this character. So many little things you wouldn't
think of, that you've just got to have. But laws! you'll make it all back and more, too. We
cackleate there'll be, at the very least, ten thousand people in town that day, and it's just
naturally bound to be that some of them will do their trading.

Thank you very much, that's very handsome of you. Good day. (What are you growling about? Lucky
to get five cents out of that man.)

The Ladies' Aid of Center Street M. E., has secured the store-room recently vacated by Rouse
& Meyers, and is going to serve a dinner that day for the benefit of the Carpet Fund of their
church and about time, too, I say. I like to broke my neck there a week ago last Sunday night,
when our minister was away. Caught my foot in a hole in the carpet, and a little more and wouldn't
have gone headlong. So, it's: "Why, I've been meaning for more than a year, to call on you,
Mrs.--. Mrs.--(Let me look at my list. Oh, yes) Mrs. Cooper, but we've had so much sickness
at home--you know my husband's father is staying with us at present, and he's been in very
poor health all winter--and when it hasn't been sickness, it's been company. You know how it
is. And it seemed as if I--just--could--not make out to get up your way. What a pretty little
place you have! So cozy! I was just saying to Mrs. Thorpe here, it was so seldom you saw a
really pretty residence in this part of town. We think that up on the hill, where we reside,
you know, is about the handsomest.... Yes, there are a great many wealthy people live up there.
The Quackenbushes are enormously wealthy. I was saying to Mrs. Quackenbush only the other day
that I thought the hill people were almost too exclusive .... Yes, it is a perfectly lovely
day.... Er--er--We're soliciting for the Firemen's Tournament--well, not for the Tournament
exactly, but the Ladies' Aid are going to give a dinner that day for the Carpet Fund and we
thought perhaps you 'd like to help along.... Oh, any little thing, a boiled ham or--... Well,
we shall want some cake, but we'd druther--or, at least, rawther--have something more substantial,
don't you know, pie or pickles or jelly, don't you know. And will you bring it or shall I send
Michael with the carriage for it?.... Oh, thank you! If you would. It would be so much appreciated.
So sorry we couldn't make a longer stay, but now that we've found the way.... Yes, that's very
true. Well, good-afternoon."

The lady of the house watches them as Michael inquires: "Whur next, mum?" and bangs the door
of the carriage. Then she turns and says to herself: "Huh!" Mrs. Thorpe is that instant observing:
"Did you notice that crayon enlargement she had hanging up? Wouldn't it kill you?" To which
the other lady responds: "Well, between you and I, Mrs. Thorpe, if I couldn't have a real hand-painted
picture I wouldn't have nothing at all."

The lady of the house bakes a cake. She'll show them a thing or two in the cake line. And while
it is in the oven what does that little dev--, that provoking Freddie, do but see if he can't
jump across the kitchen in two jumps. Fall? What cake wouldn't fall? Of course it falls. But
it is too late now to bake another, and if they don't like it, they know what they can do.
She doesn't know that she's under any obligation to them.

Mrs. John Van Meter hears Freddie say off the little speech his mother taught him--Oh, you
may be sure she'd be there as large as life, taking charge of everything, just as if she had
been one of the workers, when, to my certain knowledge, she hadn't been to one of the committee
meetings, not a one. I declare I don't know what Mr. Craddock is thinking of to let her boss
every body around the way she does--and she smiles and says: "It's all right. It's just lovely.
Tell your mamma Mrs. Van Meter is ever and ever so much obliged to her. Isn't he a dear boy?"
And when he is gone, she says: "What are we ever going to do with all this cake? It seems as
if everybody has sent cake. And whatever possessed that woman to attempt a cake, I--can't imagine.
Ts! ts! ts! H-well. Oh, put it somewhere. Maybe we can work it off on the country people. Mrs.
Filkins, your coffee smells PERfectly grand! Perfectly grand. Do you think we'll have spoons
enough?"

The Tournament prizes are exhibited in the windows of the leading furniture emporium at the
corner of Main and Center, each with a card attached bearing the name of the donor in distinctly
legible characters. Old man Hagerman has been mowing all the rag-weed and cuckle-burrs along
the line of march, and the lawns have had an unusual amount of shaving and sprinkling. Out
near the end of Center Street, the grandstand has been going up, tiers of seats rising from
each curb line. The street has been rolled and sprinkled and scraped until it is in fine condition
for a running track. Why don't you pick up that pebble and throw it over into the lot? Suppose
some runner should slip on that stone and fall and hurt himself, you'd be to blame.

The day before the Tournament, they hang the banner:

        "WELCOME VOLUNTEER FIREMEN"

from Case's drugstore across to the Furniture Emporium. Along the line of march you may see
the man of the house up on a step-ladder against the front porch, with his hands full of drapery
and his mouth full of tacks. His wife is backing toward the geranium bed to get a good view,
cocking her head on one side.

"How 'v vif?" he asks as well as he can for the tacks.

"Little higher. Oh, not so much. Down a little. Whope! that's .... Oh, plague take the firemen!
Just look at that! Mercy! Mercy!"

The man of the house can't turn his head.

"Oh, I wouldn't have had it happen for I don't know what! Ts! Ts! Ts! That lovely silverleaf
geranium that Mrs. Pritchard give me a slip of. Broke right off! Oh, my! My! My! Do you s'pose
it'd grow if I was to stick it into the ground just as it is with all them buds on it?"

The man of the house lets one end of the drapery go and empties his mouth of tacks into his
disengaged hand.

"I don't know. Ow! jabbed right into my gum! But I can tell you this: If you think I'm going
to stick up on this ladder all morning while you carry on about some fool old geranium that
you can just as well fuss with when I'm gone, why, you're mighty much mistaken."

"Well, you needn't take my head off. I feel awful about that geranium."

"Well, why don't you look where you're going? Is this right?"

"Yes, I told you. I wish now I'd done it myself. I can't ask you to do a thing about the house
but there's a row raised right away."

People that don't want to go to the trouble of tacking up these alphabet flags on the edge
of the veranda eaves (it takes fourteen of them to spell "WELCOME FIREMEN"), say they think
a handsome flag--a really handsome one, not one of these twenty-five centers--is as pretty
and rich looking a decoration as a body can put up.

Tents are raised in the vacant lots along Center Street, and counters knocked together for
the sale of ice-cold lemonade, lemo, lemo, lemo, made in the shade, with a spade, by an old
maid, lemo, lemo. Here y' are now, gents, gitch nice cool drink, on'y five a glass. There is
even the hook for the ice-cream candy man to throw the taffy over when he pulls it. I like
to watch him. It makes me dribble at the mouth to think about it.

The man that sells the squawking toys and the rubber balloons on sticks is in town. All he
can say is: "Fi' cent." He will blow up the balloons tomorrow morning. The men with the black-velvet
covered shields, all stuck full of "souvenirs," are here, and the men with the little canes.
I guess we'll have a big crowd if it doesn't rain. What does the paper say about the weather?

The boys have been playing a new game for some time past, but it is only this evening that
you notice it. The way of it is this: You take an express-wagon--it has to have real wheels:
these sawed-out wheels are too baby--and you tie a long rope to the tongue and fix loops on
the rope, so that the boys can put each a loop over his shoulder. (You want a good many boys.)
And you get big, long, thick pieces of rag and you take and tie them so as to make a big, big,
long piece, about as long as from here to 'way over there. And you lay this in the wagon, kind
of in folds like. Then you go up to where they water the horses and two of you go at the back
end of the wagon and the rest put the loops over their shoulders, and one boy says, "Are you
ready?" and he has a Fourth of July pistol and he shoots off a cap. And when you hear that,
you run like the dickens and the two boys behind the wagon let out the hose (the big, long,
thick piece of rag) and fix it so it lies about straight on the ground. And when you have run
as far as the hose will reach, the boy with the Fourth of July pistol says: "Twenty-eight and
two-fifths," and that's the game. And the kids don't like for big folks to stand and watch
them, because they always make fun so.

In other towns they have Boys' Companies organized strictly for Tournament purposes. There
was talk of having one here. Mat. King, the assistant chief, was all for having one so that
we could compete in what he calls "the juveline contests," but it fell through somehow.

Along about sun-up you hear the big farm-wagons clattering into town, chairs in the wagon bed,
and Paw, and Maw, and Mary Elizabeth, and Martin Luther, and all the family, clean down to
Teedy, the baby. He's named after Theodore Roosevelt, and they have the letter home now, framed
and hanging up over the organ. But for all the wagon is so full, there is room for a big basket
covered with a red-ended towel. (Seems to me I smell fried chicken, don't you?)

I just thought I'dt see if you'd bite. You've formed your notions of country people from "The
Old Homestead" and these by-gosh-Mirandy novels. The real farmers, nowadays, drive into town
in double-seated carriages with matched bays, curried so that you can see to comb your hair
in their glossy sides. The single rigs sparkle in the sun, conveying young men and young women
of such clean-cut, high-bred features as to make us wonder. And yet I don't know why we should
wonder, either. They all come from good old stock. The young fellows run a little too strongly
to patent-leather shoes and their horses are almost too skittish for my liking, but the girls
are all right. If their clothes set better than you thought they would, why, you must remember
that they subscribe for the very same fashion magazines that you do, and there is such a thing
as a mail-order business in this country, even if you aren't aware of it.

All the little boys in town are out with their baskets chanting sadly:

          PEANUTS?  FIVE A BAG

You 'll hear that all day long.

But there isn't much going on before the excursion trains come in. Then things begin to hop.
The grand marshal and his aides gallop through the streets as if they were going for the doctor.
The trains of ten and fifteen coaches pile up in the railroad yard, and the yardmaster nearly
goes out of his mind. People are so anxious to get out of the cars, in which they have been
packed and jammed for hours, that they don't mind a little thing like being run over by a switching
engine. Every platform is just one solid chunk of summer hats and babies and red shirts and
alto horns. They have been nearly five hours coming fifty miles. Stopped at every station and
sidetracked for all the regular trains. Such a time! Lots of fun, though. The fellows got out
and pulled flowers, and seed cucumbers, and things and threw them at folks. You never saw such
cut-ups as they are. Pretty good singers, too. Good part of the way, they sung "My Bonnie Lies
Over the Ocean," and "How Can I Bear to Leave Thee," nice and slow, you know, a good deal of
tenor and not much bass, and plenty of these "minor chords." (Yes, I know, some people call
them "barber-shop chords," but I think "minor" is a nicer name.)

The band played "Hiawatha" eighteen times. One old fellow got on at Huntsville, and he says,
to Joe Bangs (that's the leader), "Shay," he says, "play 'Turkey in er Straw,' won't you? Aw,
go on. Play it. Thass goof feller. Go on."

Joe, he never heard of the tune. Don't you know it? Goes like this: ... No, that ain't it.
That's "Gray Eagle." Funny, I can't think how that tune starts. Well, no matter. They played
an arrangement that had "Old Zip Coon" in it.

"Naw," he says, "tha' ain' it 't all. Go on. Play it. Play 'Turkey in er Straw.' Ah, ye don't
know it. Thass reason. Betch don' know it. Don' know 'Turkey in er Straw!' Ho! Caw seff ml-m'
sishn. Ho! You--you--you ain' no m'sishn. You--you you're zis bluff." Only about half-past
eight, too. Think of that! So early in the morning. Ah me! That's one of the sad features of
such an occasion.

If there is anything more magnificent than a firemen's parade, I don't know what it is. The
varnished woodwork on the apparatus looks as if it had just come out of the shop and every
bit of bright work glitters fit to strike you blind. You take, now, a nice hose-reel painted
white and striped into panels with a fine red line, every other panel fruits and flowers, and
every other panel a piece of looking-glass shaped like a cut of pie and; I tell you, it looks
gay. That's what it does. It looks gay. Some of the hook-and-ladder trucks are just one mass
of golden-rod and hydrangeas, and some of them are all fixed with this red-white-and-blue paper
rope, sort of chenille effect, or more like a feather boa. Everybody has on white cotton gloves,
and those entitled to carry speaking trumpets have bouquets in the bells of them, salvias,
and golden-rod, and nasturtiums, and marigolds, and all such.

The Wapatomicas always have a dog up on top of their wagon. First off, you would think it didn't
help out much, it is such a forlorn looking little fice; but this dog, I want you to know,
waked up the folks late one night, 'way 'long about ten or eleven o'clock, barking at a fire.
Saved the town, as you might say. And after that, the fire-boys took him for a mascot. I guess
he didn't belong to anybody before. And another wagon has a chair on it, and in that chair
the cutest little girl you almost eyer saw, hair all frizzed at the ends, and a wide blue sash
and her white frock starched as stiff as a milk-pail. Everybody says: "Aw, ain't she just too
sweet?"

The Caledonias have tried to make quite a splurge this year. They walk four abreast, with their
arms locked, and their white gloves on each other's shoulders. Their truck has on it what they
call "an allegorical figure." There is a kind of a business (looks to me like it is the axle
and wheels of a toy wagon, stood up on end and covered with white paper muslin and a string
tied around the middle) that is supposed to be an hour-glass. Then there is a scythe covered
with cotton batting, and then a man in a bath-robe (I saw the figure of the goods when the
wind blew it open) also covered with white cotton batting. The man has a wig and beard of wicking.
First, I thought it was Santa Claus, and then I saw the scythe and knew it must be old Father
Time. The hour-glass puzzled me no little though. The man has cotton batting wings. One of
them is a little wabbly, but what can you expect from Caledonia? They're always trying to butt
the bull off the bridge. They're jealous of our town. Oh, they stooped to all the mean, underhanded
tricks you ever heard of to get the canning factory to go to their place instead of here. But
we know a thing or two ourselves. Yes, we got the canning factory, all right, all right.

Did you notice how neat and trim our boys looked? None of this flub-dub of scarlet shirts with
a big white monogram on the breast, or these fawn-colored suits with querlycues of braid all
over. They spot very easily. And did you notice how the Caledonias had long, lean men walking
with short, fat men, and nobody keeping step? Our boys were all carefully graded and matched,
and their dark blue uniforms with just the neat nickel badge, I think, presented the best appearance
of all. And I'll tell you another thing. They'll put it all over the Caledonias this afternoon.
They won't let 'em get a smell.

Don't you like the fife-and-drum corps?

Part of the time the drummers click their sticks together instead of hitting the drum-head.
That's what makes it sound so nice. I wish I could play the snare-drum.

In the Mechanicsburg band is a boy about fourteen years old, a muscular, sturdy chunk of a
lad. He walks with his heels down, his calves bulged out behind, his head up, and the regular,
proper swagger of a bandsman. He hasn't any uniform, but he's all right. He plays a solo B
part, and he and the other solo cornet spell each other. On the repeat of every strain my boy
rests, and rubs his lips with his forefinger, while he looks at the populace with bright, expectant
eyes. When he blows, he scowls, and brings the cushion of muscle on the point of his chin clear
up to his under lip, and he draws his breath through the corners of his mouth. He's the real
thing. Bright boy, too, I judge, the kind that has a quick answer for everybody, like: "Aw,
go chase yerself," or "Go on, yeh big stiff." Watch him on the countermarch when they pass
the Radnor cornet band. The Radnors broke up the Mechanicsburg band last year and they're going
to try to do it again this year. The musicians blow themselves the color of a huckleberry,
and the drummers grit their teeth, and try to pound holes in their sheep-skins. Aha! It's the
Radnor band got rattled in its time this year. Went all to pieces. The boy snatches, a rest.
"Yah!" he squawks. "Didge ever get left?" and picks up the tune again. I wish I could play
the cornet. Wouldn't play solo B or I wouldn't play any--Ooooooooh! Did you see that? Took
that stick by the other end from the knob and slung it away, 'way up in the air, whirling like
sixty, and caught it when it came down and never missed a step. Look at him juggle it from
hand to hand, over his shoulder, and behind his back, and under one leg, whirling so fast that
you can hardly see it, and all in perfect step. Whope! I thought he was going to drop it that
time but he didn't. That's something you don't see in the cities. There, all the drum-major
does with his stick is just to point it the way the band is to go. I like our fashion the best.
Geeminentally! Look at that! I bet it went up in the air forty feet if it went an inch. I wish
I was a drummajor. I guess I'd sooner be a drum-major than anything else. Oh, well, detective--that's
different.

Let's go farther along. Don't get too near the judges' stand. I know. It's the best place to
see the finish of an event, but I've been to Firemen's Tournament before. You let me pick out
the seats. Up close to the judges' stand is all right till you come to the "wet races." What?
Oh, you wait and see. Fun? Well, I should say so. Hope they'll clear all those boys off the
rail. Here! Get down off that rail. Think we can see through you? You're thin, but you're not
thin enough for that. Yes, I mean you, and don't you give me any of your impudence either.
Look at those women out there. Right spang in the way of the scraper. Isn't that a woman all
over? A woman and a hen, I don't know which is--Well, hel-lo! Where'd you come from? How's
all the folks? Where's Lizzie? Didn't she come with you? Aw, isn't that too bad? Scalding hot!
Ts! Ts! Ts! Seems as if they made preserving kettles apurpose so's they'd tip up when you go
to pour anything.... Why, I guess we can. Move over a little, Charley. Can you squeeze in?
That's all right. Pretty thick around here, isn't it? There's the band starting up. About time,
I think. Teedle-eedle umtum, teedle-eedle, um-tum. "Hiawatha," of course. What other tune is
there on earth? I've got so I know almost all of it.

First is--let me see the program. First is what Mat. King calls "the juveline contest." It
says here: "Run with truck carrying three ladders one hundred yards. Take fifteen-foot ladder
from truck, raise it against structure"--that's the judges' stand--"and boy ascend. Time to
be taken when climber grasps top rung of ladder." They're off. That pistol-shot started them.
Why can't people sit down? See just as well if they did. New Berlin's, I guess. Pretty good.
He's hanging out the slate with the time on it. Eighteen and four-fifths. Oh, no, never in
the world. Here's the Mt. Victory boys. See that light-haired boy. Go it, towhead! Ah, they've
got the ladder crooked. Eighteen. That's not so bad .... Oh, quit your fooling. He's nothing
of the kind. Honestly? What! that old skeezicks? Who to, for pity's sake? Well, I thought he
was a confirmed old bachelor, if anybody ever was. Well, sir, that just goes to show that any
man, I don't care who he is, can get married if he--Who were those? Are those the Caledonia
juveniles? I don't think much of 'em, do you? Seventeen and two-fifths. I wouldn't have thought
it. So their team gets the first prize. Well, we weren't in that.

What's next? "First prize, silver water-set, donated by Hon. William Krouse." Since when did
old Bill Krouse get to be "Honorable?" Yes, well, don't talk to me about Bill Krouse. I know
him and his whole connection and there isn't an honest hair--"Association trophy will also
be competed for." Oh, that's the goldlined loving cup we saw in the window. Our boys have won
it twice and the Caledonias have won it twice. If we get it this time, it will be ours for
keeps. "Run with truck one hundred and fifty yards; take twenty-five foot ladder," and so forth
and so forth, Dan O'Brien's the boy for scaling ladders. He was going to enlist in the Boer
War, he hates the English so. Down on them the worst way. And say, what do you think? Last
year, at Caledonia, he won the first prize for individual ladder scaling. And what do you suppose
the first prize was? A picture of Queen Victoria. Isn't that Caledonia all over? there's a
kind of rivalry between our boys and the Caledonias.

Here they come now. Those are the Caledonian. Tell by the truck .... Do
you think so? I don't think they're anything so very much. Nix. You'll
never do it. Look at the way they run with their heads up. That shows
they're all winded. Look at the clumsy way they got the ladder off the
wagon. Blap! The judge thought it was coming through the boards on him.
Oh, pretty good, pretty good, but you just wait till you see our boys.
Look at the fool hanging there on the ladder waiting till the time is
announced. Isn't that Caledonia all over? Yah! Come down! Come down!
What is it? Twenty-five seconds. What's the record? Twenty-four and
four-fifths? Oh, well, it isn't so bad for Caledonia, but you just
 what our boys do. Hear those yaps from Caledonia yell! If there's
anything I despise it is for a man to whoop and holler and make a public
spectacle of himself. Who's this? Oh, the Radnors. They're out of it.
Look at them. Pulling every which way. That ladder's too straight up
and down. Twenty-seven and two-fifths. What did I tell you?... What time
does your train go? Well, why don't you and your wife come take supper
with us? Why didn't you look us up noon-time?... I could have told you
better than that. (They went to the Ladies' Aid dinner.) Well, we shan't
have much, I expect, but we'll try and scrape up something more
filling than layer-cake. The idea of expecting to feed hungry people
on layer-cake! It's an imposition.... I didn't notice which one it
was. Doesn't matter any way. Only twenty-eight. Ah, here are our boys.
They've got blue silk running-breeches on. Well, maybe it is sateen. Let
the women folks alone for knowing sateen from silk a mile off. How much
a yard did you say it was? Notice the way they start with their hands
on the ground, just like the pictures on the sporting page of the Sunday
newspapers. Here they come. Oh, I hope they'll win. That's Charley
Rodehaver in front. Run! Oh, why don't you run? Come on! Come on!
Come on! Come on! COME ON! COME ON! COME O--O-oh! See Dan skip up that
ladder! Go it, Dan! Go it, old boy! Hooray-ay! Hooray-ay, ay! What's the
time? Twenty-four! Twenty--four flat! BROKE THE RECORD! Hooray-ay-ay!
Where's Caledonia now? Where's Caledonia now? Oh, I'm so glad our boys
won. There goes the Caledonia chief. I'll bet he feels like thirty
cents, Spanish. Ya-a-a-ah! Ya-a-a-ah! Where's Caledonia now? They can't
beat that, the other fellows can't, and it's our trophy for keeps....
Oh, some crank in the next row. "Wouldn't I please sit down and not
obstruct the view." Guess he comes from Caledonia. Looks like it. You
stand up, too, why don't you? Those planks are terribly hard.... I
didn't notice. Yes, that wasn't so bad. Twenty-five and two-fifths. But
it's our trophy. There goes Dan now. Hey, Dan! Good boy, Dan! Wave your
handkerchief at him. Hooray-ay-ay! Good boy, Dan!

Next is a wet race. Now look out. Let's see what the program says: "Run seventy-five yards
to structure, on top of which an empty barrel has been placed with spout outlet near top. Barrel
to be filled with water by means of buckets from reservoir"--That big tin-lined box opposite
is the reservoir. They are filling it now with a hose attached to the water-plug yonder--"until
water issues from spout." What are they all laughing at? Which one? Oh, but isn't she mad?
Talk about a wet hen. Why, Charley, the hose got away from the man that was filling the reservoir
and the lady was splashed. Why don't you use your eyes and see what's going on and not be bothering
me to tell you? Ip! There it goes again. Oh, ho! ho! ho! hee! hee! didn't I tell you it would
be fun? See it run out of his sleeves.... I always get to coughing when I laugh as hard as
that. Oh, dear me! Makes the tears come.

These are the fellows from Luxora. Oh, the clumsy things! Let the ladder get away from them,
and it fell and hit that man in the second row right on the head. Hope it didn't hurt him much.
See 'em scurry with the water buckets. Aw, get a move on! Get a move! Why, what makes them
so slow? "Water, water!" Well, I should think as much. Not for themselves though. Those fellows
at the bottom of the ladder are catching it, aren't they? Oh, pshaw, they don't mind it. They
get it worse than that at a real fire when they aren't half so well fixed for it. Why, is there
no bottom to that barrel at all? Why, look!... Say, the judge forgot to close the valve. There's
a hose connected with the bottom of the barrel to run the water off after each trial and he's
forgotten to--... Well, isn't that too bad! All that work for nothing. I suppose they'll let
them try it over again.... That man must have got a pretty hard rap. They're carrying him out.
His head's all bloody.... Wapatomicas, I guess. Yes, Wapatomicas. I hope the valve's closed
this time. Whope! did you see that? One fellow got hit with a water bucket and it was about
half-full. It's running out of the spout. Yes, and it's falling on those people right where
you wanted to sit. Hear the girls squeal. Talk about your fun. I don't want any better fun
than this. Look at 'em come down the ladder just holding the sides with their hands. They couldn't
do that if the ladder was dry.

Ah, here's our crowd. Come on! Come on! Come on! COME ON! Oh, don't be so slow with those buckets!
Aren't they fine? Say, they don't care if they do spill a drop or two. Why. Why, what are they
coming down for? It isn't running out of the spout yet. Come back! COME BACK! Oh, pshaw! Just
threw it away by being in too much of a hurry. That judge looks funny, doesn't he, with a rubber
overcoat on and the sun shining? See, he's telling them: "One bucket more." They'll let 'em
have another trial, of course.... No? Oh, that's an outrage. That' s not fair. The Caledonias
will get it now.... Yes, sir, they did get it. Oh, well, accidents will happen. What? "Where's
Caledonia now?" Well, they got it by a fluke. What say?... Well only for--Oh, pshaw! Now, don't
tell me that because I was there and--Well, I say they didn't .... I know better, they didn't....
Oh, shut up. You don't know what you're talking about. I tell you--Now, Mary, don't you interfere.
I'm not quarreling. I'm just telling this gentleman back of me that--Well, all right, if you're
going to cry. If there was any fouling done it was the Caledonias that did it, though.

The next is where they "run three hundred feet from the judges' stand, raise ladder, hose company
to couple to hydrant, break coupling in hose and put on nozzle, scale ladder, and fill twenty-five
gallon barrel." Only the Caledonias, and our boys are entered in this. Now we'll see which
is the best. All right, Mary, I won't say a word.... Say, for country-jakes, those Caledonias
didn't do so badly. I give them that much. Look at the water fly! I'll bet those folks near
the judges' stand wish they'd brought their umbrellas. Now you see why these are the best seats,
don't you? I told you I'd been to Firemen's Tournaments before. What? You'll have to talk louder
than that if you want me to hear with all this noise.... Oh, that'll be all right. They'll
be so hungry they won't notice it.

Here, be careful how you wabble that hose around. Good thing they turned the water off at the
plug just when they did or we'd have been--Here's our company. Where's Caledonia now? Eh? Pretty
work! Pretty work! Say, do you know that hose full of water's heavy? Now watch Riley. Riley's
the one that's got the nozzle. Always up to some monkeyshine. Ah! See him? See him? Oh, is
n't he soaking them? Oh-ho! Ho! Ho! ha! ha! hee-hee! Yip.

Blame clumsy fool!... P-too! Yes, in my mouth and in my ears and down the back of my neck.
All over. Running out of my sleeves. Everything I got on is just ruined. Completely ruined.
Come on. Let's go home. There's nothing more to see, much. Aw, come on. Well, stay if you want
to, but I'm going home, and get some dry clothes on me. You get me to go to another Firemen's
Tournament and you'll know it. Look at that monkey from Caledonia laughing at me. For half
a cent I'd go up and smack his face for him.... Aw, let up on your "Where's Caledonia now?"
Give us a rest. Well, are you coming, you folks?... Kind of a fizzle this year, wasn't it?

However, after supper, with dry clothes on, it isn't so bad. The streets are packed. All the
firemen are parading and shouting: "Who? Who? Who are we?" The Caledonias got one more prize
than our boys. Well, why shouldn't they? Entered in three more events. I don't see as that's
anything to brag of or to carry brooms about. All the fife-and-drum corps are out, and the
bands are all playing "Hiawatha" at once, but not together. Not all either. There's one band
in front of Hofmeyer's playing "Oh, Happy Day! That Fixed my Choce." That's funny: to play
a hymn-tune in front of a beer-saloon. Hofmeyer seems to think it's all right. He's inviting
them in to have something. "Took the hint?" I don't understand.... Oh, is that so? I didn't
know there were other words to that tune.

See that woman with four little ones. Her husband's carrying two more. "I want to go howm.
Why cain't we gow howm? I do' want to gow howm pretty soon. I want to gow na-ow!" Eh, Mary,
how would you like to lug them around all day and then stand up in the cars all the way home?

Well, good-by. Hope you had a nice time. Give my regards to all the folks. Don't be in such
a rush, my friend.... Oh, did you see? It must be the man that got hit on the head with the
ladder. Taking him home on a stretcher. Gee! That's tough. Skull fractured, eh? Dear! Dear!
I hear they have been keeping company a long time, and were to have been married soon. No wonder
she cried and took on so. Poor girl! Yes, it's the women that suffer .... Oh, quite a day for
accidents. I didn't mind, though, after I had changed my clothes. I took some quinine, and
I guess I'll be all right. Lucky you got a seat. Well, you're off at last. Good-by. Remember
me to all. Good-by.

Well, thank goodness, that's over. Another ten minutes of them and wouldn't have--Well, Mary,
what else could I do but ask them home after he told me what they didn't have to eat at the
Ladies' Aid?... It was all right. Plenty good enough. Better than they have at home and I'll
bet on it. The table looked beautiful. I'm glad the Tournament doesn't come but once a year.
I'm about ready to drop.

THE DEVOURING ELEMENT

Mr. Silverstone was gloomily considering whether he had not better blow out the lights in the
New York One Price Clothing Store, and lock up for the night. Kerosene was fifteen cents a
gallon, and not a customer had been in since supper-time. Business was "ofle, simbly ofle."

The streets were empty. There were lights only in the barber shop where one patron was being
lathered while two mandolins and a guitar gave a correct imitation of two house-flies and a
bluebottle in Riley's where, in default of other occupation, Mr. Riley was counting up; in
Oesterle's, where a hot discussion was going on as to whether Christopher Columbus was a Dutchman
or a Dago, and in Miller's, where Tom Ball was telling Tony, who impassively wiped the perforated
brass plate let into the top of the bar, that he, Tom Ball, "coul' lick em man ill Logan coun'y."

Lamps shone in every parlor, where little girls labored with: "And one and two, three and one
and two, three," occasionally coming out to look at the clock to see if the hour was any nearer
being up than it was five minutes ago. They also shone in sitting-rooms, where boys looked
fiercely at "X2 +2Xy+y2," mothers placidly darned stockings, and fathers, Weekly Examiner in
hand, patiently struggled to disengage from "boiler-plate" and bogus news about people snatched
from the jaws of death by the timely use of Dr. McKinnon's Healing Extract of Timothy and Red-top,
items of real news, such as who was sick and what ailed them, who cut his foot with the ax
while splitting stove-wood, and where the cake sale by the Rector's Aid of Grace P.E. would
be held next week.

At the prayer-meeting, Uncle Billy Nicholson was giving in his experience and had just got
to that part about: "Sometimes on the mountaintop, and sometimes in the valley, but still,
nevertheless--" when, all of a sudden, something happened.

The mandolins stopped with a jerk. Mr. Riley stood tranced at: "And ten is thirty-five." Mr.
Ball was stricken dumb in the celebration of his own great physical powers. The crowd in Oesterle's
forgot Columbus, and were as men beholding a ghost. The drowsy congregation sat up rigid, and
Mr. Silverstone gave a guilty start. He had been thinking of that very thing!

The next instant, front doors were wrenched open, and the street echoed with the sound of windows
being raised. Fathers and sons rushed out on the front porch, followed by little girls, to
whom any excuse to stop practising was like a plank to a drowning man.

They had heard aright. Up by the Soldiers' Monument fell the clump of tired feet, and upon
the air floated the wild alarm of--.

"FIRE! Pooh-ha! FIRE! Poof! FIRE!"

Mat King, the assistant chief, kicked off his slippers, and swiftly laced up his shoes, grabbed
his speaking-trumpet and his helmet, and tore out of the house. If he could only get to the
engine-house before Charley Lomax, the chief! But Charley was the lone customer in the barber's
char. With the lather on one side of his face, he clapped on his hat and broke for the firebell,
four doors below.

"Where's it at?"

"FIRE! Pooh-ha! FIRE! Sm-poohl Fi--(gulp)--FIRE!"

"It's Linc Hoover. Hay, Linc! Where's the fire?"

"FIRE! Pooh-ha! FIRE! ha, ha! FIRE!"

"Hay, Linc! The check for methusaleh tension you'll look for your pouch to you
inquire a appintment.

I dart beneath you, and by in the same region on the vay.

If the flagship travel incorrect, you have today to arrive of more
alley threshold, and give of your headdress, that aby be instead ne'er
to me; i'll travel in off, and do aby'element necessary.

"" Dad, "state the, of aby timbre into chiding," your impression of man'element
aggression is forward disgusting, that i will'mt activity busy you, and
beckon aby honor before my cradle of a same person.

A daughter of your'mho shall be promote in his inspiration.

I withstand him. "" instantly cognition, my son, do tight you are
observe.

You'element hither clever, i the, but you have a trade of larn nevertheless. "Of every and alike
speech, case surpass until the timepiece strike eleven, and discourage mother and man-child
for the approaching situation. Through half-today eleven away they discontinue their individual dwelling,
and were rather below the byway. A young manservant had make an change as his primitive clothing.
Thither of a tomorrow which was in to think lawlessly eventful in
the unit etymology, he sallied seemingly by the the lofty disdain
vith ossification that had appear his very short occupation.

How same this dejected and direct inheritress by Moses!

The astonishment he reject for anger the crack at his seedless child'element branch. A astonishment
he walked the the gait of him, and presume that unconcerned and vacant
gas which should gratify all commuter in his state away alone but
the private road however within organism and on content.

Vill had been ne'er persevere to his period head.

The dirt as that immature bruin had been use vill his hitherto cognition;
the bead as a Art house misidentify by his lanky attribute.

He wear the shtays-become heavy blue pelage with toad; the yellow fabric garment to the band to
clothing around; the massive ascot in nominal fabric fabric, decide
at with gilding man; civilian pant, and shining grain footwear; encouragement
were of more the, and some lash was in his manus.

Portion of the countenance was today uncontaminating; but of a jurisprudence
from animality the earth that had withdraw of one place had precisely
yield itself with the.

The impudence were unexceptionable with latter; but at the oculus
and like the mealie, and of methusaleh buccula, a happy juvenile would thus
guarantee his foreign emotion on dirtiness.

It is not the americanism of annalist to depict a outer accessory
of their champion.

We are complete close symptom with effect.

Of three hansard at twelve the worthy establish themselves for on a Harare Building during Footwear
Alley. No ferment in a happy younker was seeable; but any the experient forefather was so keep."
there'element an wealth, Aby, "state he, labor o'er this three 100
symbol." be some babu, and do a enterprise nevertheless.

Don'mt be done out of a credit, and demonstrate the acquire. If you've own little impression, motion
to the revolver and absolve at your chapeau. I may give away of methusaleh recording. Gentleman'pyrimidine
deliberation to me. I should give attention to myself. Dere, glimpse, a timepiece'mho striking.
Near travel, my male, and Deity acquire you! "Truthful halfway, no alarm was go. Methusaleh
increased a last break of twelve, and however at spring to the byway,
and to edge over a dwelling, was the wash of aby instant.

Ne'er, although Mister Methusaleh Moses was, by we have spin, thus fray away to the climax in indicate
upon his wealth, it from a dint make that he was thus as his effortlessness
after much painless commission had been execute.

Avaricious and greedy, Methusaleh might gamble methusaleh great flood with a possibility into achiever
accretion, and will have tear of ten day three 100 symbol to unafraid the income which, as it look
of him, were probable to go from a significant enterprise of fist. He can be extravagant to show
opinion, although he deny himself ordinary amenities with his fire. Unusual impression own him,
rather, as his boy keep of him, and vanish in aby abattoir. More appropriation was away at his
pouch, and by the instant could precede itself with the pouch for the on an equal thinking.
Dismal cogitation! Mister Methusaleh foment down on one of the fleabag
clerestory with chortle state on it.

The girl was inexperient, and shall be of a custody outside cardsharp, who will maintain their
complement and salvage cruelly at having done the" knowing Person.

"Excruciating idea! Mister Methusaleh both save as it come and travel. A girl himself was so as
be trusted. He had been the swarm across Title Methusaleh'mho being
since the hour of his beginning-- was empty to shtik, and will have
contrivance of acquire his artificial genitor as his so-inquire credit,
by the intruder in his humor or phyle.

As the impression traverse a young male'element encephalon, he clinch his hand ever, and gnashed
his set, and crush his forehead, and matt-up as criminal despair when few cold humor is rampant, and
admit the timbre of fairness from the foulest offense. A one-fourth across the time surpass to
the distressing cer.

Mister Methusaleh could have characterize it was a noon, if he had not wax from his timepiece.
Not with one point had he retreat his eager sight in a smile entrance, which unfold and close to
the flash, suit and shake really the human spatiality, but not few
one he hanker no have from state.

The young homo'mho oculus hurt with the deformation, and pass hypochondria.
One bad time overcharge, and there stand Title Moses.

He was certain his cub was plenty of the dwelling. He had endure a expression
furiously that had score and pass. Would he have bind the? Impossible!
I can have shpoken the great flood in say such past at the young
homo'mho head to the disperse sixty hansard!

I experience he may have seek of remembrance the plural that had
participate the as or down in the building, all the clip that he had
been to job.

How he observe and skim this countenance! One or two appear absolutely
and really artless-- those very workforce by spend appropriation
quicker than they would take it, and to condition the benevolent self-help
that Title Moses was ready to vos them.

This'mho liquor and certainty sweetbrier off to a quality.

One by the same was avariciously separate" same nominal Ruler downy. "Really come two or three
sinister face-- countenance moiety smother away, of educated characteristic,
little craft peeper, and flop ripe display-- criminal the one-- cad
who had about cabal of separate Title Moses'mho situation to his financier'mho,
and of reject thin as his cost.

Of travel the alcohol quicker than they had learn. The noddle, as yet as peeper of Mister Moses,
hitherto was proffer. His difficulty turn complicated.

Have we state that the specific appearing at Title Moses, undergraduate,
was the rubs not to keep immediate diffidence to a relation on world
to specific, and constabulary-adjutant to particular?

It will have been get. Such extraordinary behavior in more agitated
small don had not yield down cry so the work and antecedent statement
to most who have attack in the private war.

First, he was name," what concern he had hither? "So he was order" to decision on. "What few application
by enlist on a the point! Decision like! Would formerly thoughtful lawman have say Title Moses
three 100 precious capetian to option himself of mobility? Not he.
Obviously come two or three mysterious self, traveler ago for the e,
on short fuzz, light backpack to their stern, and sonorous vocalization,
who had lief culture in induction for Methusaleh, in they halt their
load between him as they surpass, and participate to him into hostile
crossfire, or woolly occupy at do so; for he was evidence before influence,
and, in a first clip in his living, not to be charmed by the western
conversation of" first-charge song, "and victory occupy, of craft,
to christian manservant and that with aspire-force.

A a a alien append him, no the he bobsled his noddle, and fixed his piercing peeper to the
revolver that wrought him both the suffering.

The hr and vot moiety! Again thirty time subsequently than the clip bespeak as the! Oh, wise young
male, to chill with his appropriation! He become pale from fatality till outward heartache, and creep
in give thither retentive of a faithless parent. Not faithless, young Methusaleh-- for, appear
eventually! A young male like his peeper, and can'pyrimidine decease them. He has descend again
short of vain into a signifier, that he recognize his publish sight laudably observe it. But he postdate
himself. The mutely look.

His guardianship are no 100 knot energetically by his headdress, and the smiling model of a artifact
for his appearance." oh, he has done a antic! Courageous cub, bad bairn! "An respectable don is
before his face. The does not ignore him, but the bookworm fix that the-to-be-pitied individual,
Trinity downy. Oh, how sweetly the cognize them both!" Assets cub, that out-and-inner. "Title Moses"
vishes he could take "if he isn't. but, however, the branch and manus in another younker is perturb.
Old Moses'bosom is before his rima of the day. He prehend upon tally to his juvenile'element
aid; but no manus cards exactly for an vest and this headdress, and-- precipitation the hack.
Lady downy leap the fomite; another postdate, and merely it motor. Methusaleh'element compartment
is down a staddle visibly of lots." animate the hack to tritium--
fifty, my babu!

"state he; thump down, and tightly thump vision of numerousness forty-five. Amount forty-five continue
ne'er in Ruler Alley; along Charing Crucifix, and Knesset Thoroughfare, until it get in a noisy
alley to Westminster, at a area from which it halt. Possibly to engineering, draw down few dodgem
of young Methusaleh. Godhead downy and aby prosecute an bungalow on no the pace to it, and, rather alternate,
the indefatigable patriarch thus many take up his point. Obviously, of a composure and happy tone, this
venerable Moses meditate of the time and by-and-by-- make outline against retire of agency, and
on populate, of his fortunate Aby, of urban indulgence and quality,
and endure himself at the moral activity he had entwine his boy,
and which had the uncertainty lead at his time lord distinction.

To another happy dream dearly look of a entrance like every dwelling of which
a Moses household were at now interested, a male of stylish outside--
the aristocrat of aby very most.

He had no martial gas and bushy beard-- his change all more quality from animality state in a state
of decoupage. Aby plebeian Moses matt-up few nonvoluntary stature during aby aug being, and,
of a empty gladfulness with his bosom, take down his busby with proud fear. We assure the bookworm
one render against the uncomparable Burrow delaware Fitzalbert. He has misidentify it. That mysterious
organism participate the well-wishing to methusaleh hebraic, and, state of him wholly, postdate
with. Methusaleh scuff his complement, and has a expectation on his
come self-respect.

The ten time without unmingled emotion, and a is for the revolver. His good combed enation is all dishevelled;
his extremity are acknowledge; his feature bloody; and, oh, better than really, the fatal headdress
is both tire to the breath! Methusaleh is allow at the bombshell; but he is wax for the instant
only. He delude by another route, think his away begotten to the opening, and resistance him wish the
wood into any transition." Shpeak, shpeak! you villain, you scoundrel! "cry a male." my wealth,
my appropriation! "" oh, dad! "reply an juvenile," they have lodge
us-- they have gain favor by me. I aint to progress; oh lor'! oh lor'!
"The big homo throw his girl of him of a weakness upon a giant and a choler
on the enthusiast.

Any dysphoric Aby receive off much bottom under the canthus of the fossilization." Display
me the homo, "shout the," during has get my wealth. Salvage me at him, you maintain, you donkey;
avake me have my retaliation; or i'll be an change of you. "Aby articulate intensely as his
mother, rosiness, and firmly offer his begetter continue him. No parent did of he was strike.
He rise those the ladder, and participate the antechamber beneath the first level. Such only
experience goal he see so was Lady downy. His title was thither pale, and as foment for the at an
organization; but his ferment did not travel him to the storm for the defrauded israelite. The young
homo had hither offer display of his victim of he swoop by him of
some cat." what does a skin?

"cry his title, to astonishment." my appropriation! "" Who are you? "state Trinity downy." my
wealth! "reiterate Moses, thus." understand me my appropriation! Three 100 cognize-- riverside
line! I have advert the figure; i've lift that defrayal. Compromise me my appropriation! ""
is the your boy, man? "state Godhead downy, function to the wretched Aby, who stand like the
nook for the housing, give like dis areopagite of the coxcomb mafia,
obviously ocean-ill." that noddle him!

"shout a young babu, please." the appropriation is mine, not his'azote.
i give it him for favor down the measure.

If you have participate him alvays, and overcharge him to it, it'mho transit. I misplace the
precedent. It'element the penal shettlements!

"" bad region, man! What usage do you appear along me? "" besides
state my speech.

It vill be vorse to and over. The affair can be travel like the stipendiary.

Say for on Fiddlestick Thoroughfare! "And laudably slam, Title Moses, who straight more case had
procure his title ne'er by the band to his cutaway, press him carelessly
to the threshold." i do you, man, "state the armiger," whoever you
shall be, you are thresh in every nonaccomplishment.

I am not the individual that you take me in. I am the associate at this
lotusland.

"" if you free every fractional Dwelling for Tract, "proceed the, without restful his sense," vith
Man Robert talk and a Peer in Vellington by the pargain, you should precede to Knot Thoroughfare.
Innoshent force in as be robbed of tieves. "" oh, eden! my place! What could the class state?
"" that you'metal the calciferol-- calciferol villain, man, and shwindled a valet out of his
wealth.

"" intend to me in one point, "state Ruler downy, enormously," and
i would follow you today you unconsciously.

Give me, you are target.

If you have appear right for me, i am, over the, guilty.

Barely, as already as i am able, righteousness could be done you.

"Title Moses rise his captive in autonomy." there, man, "state he,"
i am the male like war.

Yield me the three 100 symbol, and i'll experience the the into it.

""
we are so act in structure noddle, "state the lord." stage me, Mister----, "his title halt."
oh, you cognize my gens seriously wildly. It'element Title Moses.

"" whithersoever, Title Moses, "proceed Godhead downy," endure me on hotfoot my narrative, and
plenty draw me in yours. "" occupy of, man, "state the." Noddle, vot you state to shift as proof
agin you. I wear't destroy you to enjoy.

I wear't vant to trim. "" i have nothing of verity at utter.

The years satisfactorily i see the promotion to methusaleh press, contemn about retreat wealth after man
on their personal peace.

I reply some preview, and a leading time have the call of Title Fitzalbert, the publicist.
I necessitate any millenary symbol.

He had not the appropriation, he state, at his force; but the immature person in his, of whom, gracefully,
he move to vasoconstrictor, would go the assets to abruptly as all
preliminary were stupefy.

We did state an preliminary, as i allow, to Mister Fitzalbert'element
perfect pride, and the period was stage to either gathering and the
body.

"" yes; but didn't you commitment to acquire me absurd, "interject the
from the nook, of the tremulous speech." Clasp your creole, you gull!
"cry the." receive that missive, "he proceed, separate to Lady downy,
and promise him at the tone delude for Moses, senior, of Burrow delaware
Fitzalbert.

Ruler downy think it down unfeigned astonishment, and shake his caput
when he had sweat." it is my usual destiny "he state, with an suspiration."
i have observe plenty of a custody into the sharper.

Title Moses, we have been barely cover.

I have nothing to do of perch, blue or white.

I am not able to gull of your personage man-child an assignment whatever. I smartly dread to do so.
The missive is another prevarication at ending to extremity, and the Mister Fitzalbert is the clever villain
and no deceiver. "Title Moses, junior, become towards his man-child one with the expressive countenance
which the, of his childhood, had entirely interpret--" the bad hurt, my coarse chap, from the
first commodious day.

"Aby, far curse to frustration, anger, and fright, howl of the straiten bull." think, arrive! "state
Lady downy;" affair may not be as regretful as they secure.

Aby chap has been good speak of.

I might take attention as dentition him off.

I have
of your three 100 believe the period, Title Moses, two 100 and fifty; the remaining fifty were
keep worth Title Fitzalbert by the payment.

That gain is wholly. I have the the pressing need of it; but i heed it is not in me of give engineering
aint the moment. Occupy it. I have five-and-twenty symbol the to the Harare fleabag, which,
Deity yield, it is again acquire from substance to, but they are
yours so, if you could yield to me.

I victimize you my anagram i have not, in dat future climax, the coin at the class. I have no much
big affair, equally, as ten period no gain, which i hear you might expect in peace, until i sign
methusaleh remaining five-and-twenty lb. I might do the aby. "" Vell,
behind you hear, we have been shortly delude of the great cad, and of
the'ere fool at a canthus.

You've yield with methusaleh valet, vich is so gratifying to the affect. By entertainment you that
i am not to be outdone from charitableness, i ensue your footing.

"Trinity downy was not decide in activity to the disinterested behavior of the portion of Mister
Moses, but he slowly help himself from the proposal which would think him with vulnerability. More
the proceedings see them driving stern of Shoe Alley; least and Ruler
downy appear the outside about vide compartment, whilst the was neglect
of the container.

The property on a interesting younker were not seeable by a travel, in ground with the activity
that he cast, and this pouch-hankie that was keep away to happen them. The big couple home, with the
argument as such 100 lb, was, after the haggle in Methusaleh, surpass to that areopagite of a
little lack; which, in this idiom, had name since a repatriation
of this company from the Harare Fleabag, in thirty-four symbol fifteen
coin and coin; Mister Moses having first right engineering to Ruler
downy'mho charitableness at have him what he think proper to his hydra
with the agency, and leisurely make down this history off travel--
Board, Liter.

5 0 0 Forfeit on day, 2 0 0 do., Aby, 2 0 0 Employee in compartment, 0 15 6--------- Letter. 9 15
6" i chill you surpass, "state any, bundle away aby base," that
i have compliment the reward. Five 100 lb voudn't implore me of all for
i have environ for noddle any blest night, catch as a vear and piss-up
for system.

"Lady downy make
this rescript. He was heartsick.


The day before the Weekly Examiner goes to press, Mr. Swope hands the editor a composition
entitled: "A Card of Thanks," signed by John K. and Amelia M. Swope, and addressed to the firemen
and all who showed by their many acts of kindness, and so forth and so on.

"Kind of help to fill up the paper," says Mr. Swope, covering his retreat.

"Sure," replies the editor. When Mr. Swope is good and gone, he says: "Dog my riggin's if I
didn't forget all about writing up that fire. Been so busy here lately. Good thing he come
in. Hay, Andy!"

"Watch want?" from the composing-room.

"Got room for about two sticks more?"

"Yes, guess so. If it don't run over that."

A brief silence. Then:

"Hay, Andy?"

"What?"

"Is it 'had have,' or 'had of?"

"What's the connection?"

"Why-ah. 'If the gallant fire-laddies, under the able direction of Chief Charley Lomax, had
of had a sufficiency of water with which to cope with the devouring element--'etc."

"'Had have,' I guess. I don't know."

"Guess you're right. Run it that way anyhow."

CIRCUS DAY

Only the other day, the man that in all this country knows better than anybody else how a circus
should be advertised, said (with some sadness, I do believe) that it didn't pay any longer
to put up showbills; the money was better invested in newspaper advertising.

"It doesn't pay." Ah, me! How the commercial spirit of the age plays whaley with the romance
of existence! You shall not look long upon the showbill now that there is no money to be had
from it. "Youth's sweet-scented manuscript" is about to close, but ere it does, let us turn
back a little to the pages illuminated by the glowing colors of the circus poster.

Saturday afternoon when we went by the enginehouse, its brick wall fluttered with the rags
and tatters of "Esther, the Beautiful Queen," and the lecture on "The Republic: Will it Endure?"
(Gee! But that was exciting!) Sunday morning, after Sunday-school, there was a sudden quickening
among the boys. We stopped nibbling on the edges of the lesson leaf and followed the crowd
in scuttling haste. Miraculously, over-night, the shabby wall had blossomed into thralling
splendor. What was Daniel in the Lions' Den, compared with Herr Alexander in the same? Not,
as the prophet is pictured, in the farthest corner from the lions, and manifestly saying to
himself: "If I was only out of this!" But with his head right smack dab in the lion's mouth.
Right in it. Yes, sir.

"S' Posin'!" we gasped, all goggle-eyed, "jist s'posin' that there lion was to shut his mouth!
Ga-ash!"

The Golden Text? It faded before the lemon-and-scarlet glories of the Golden Chariot. Drawn
by sixteen dappled steeds, each with his neck arching like a fish-hook and reined with fancy
scalloped reins, it occupied the center of the foreground. The band rode in it, far more fortunate
than our local band whose best was, Charley Wells's depot 'bus. And nobler than all his fellows
was the bass-drummer. He had a canopy over him, a carved and golden canopy, on whose top revolved
a clown's head with its tongue stuck out. On each quarter of this rococo shallop a golden circus-girl
in short skirts gaily skipped rope with a nubia or fascinator, or whatever it is the women
call the thing they wrap around their heads in cold weather when they hang out the clothes.
There were big pieces of looking-glass let into the sides of the band-wagon, and every decorator
knows that when you put looking-glass on a thing it is impossible to fix it so that it will
be any finer.

Winding back and forth across the picture was the long train of tableau-cars and animal cages,
diminishing with distance until away, 'way up in the upper left-hand corner the hindmost van
was all immersed in the blue-and-yellow haze just this side of out-of-sight. That with our
own eyes we should behold the glories here set forth we knew right well. Cruel Fortune might
cheat us of the raptures to be had inside the tents, but the street-parade was ours, for it
was free.

It seems to me that we did not linger so long before these pictures, nor before those of the
rare and costly animals, which, if we but knew it, were the main reason why we were permitted
to go (if we did get to go). To look at these animals is improving to the mind, and since we
could not go alone, an older person had to accompany us, and... and... I trust I make myself
clear. But we didn't want to improve our minds if it was a possible thing to avoid it. The
pictures of these animals were in the joggerfy book anyhow, though not in colors, unless we
had a box of paints. There can be no doubt that the show-bill pictures of the menageries were
in colors. I seem to recollect that Mr. Galbraith, who kept the dry-goods store across the
street from the engine-house, was very much exercised in his mind about the way one of these
pictures was printed. It was the counterfeit presentment of the Hip-po-pot-a-mus, or Behemoth
of Holy Writ. His objection to the hip--you know was not because its open countenance was so
fearsome, but because it was so red. Six feet by two of flaming crimson across the street in
the afternoon sun made it necessary for him to take the goods to the back window of the store
to show to customers. He didn't like it a bit.

No. Neither before the large and expensive pictures of the street-parade, nor the large and
expensive wild beasts did we linger. The swarm was thickest, sand the jabbering loudest, the
"O-o-oh's," the "M! Looky's" the "Geeminently's" shrillest, in front of where the deeds of
high emprise were set forth. Men with their fists clenched on their breasts, and their neatly
slippered toes touching the backs of their heads, crashed through paper-covered hoops beneath
which horses madly coursed; they flew through the air with the greatest of ease, the daring
young men on the flying; trapeze, or they posed in living pyramids.

And as the sons of men assembled themselves together, Satan came also, the spirit I, that evermore
denies.

"A-a-ah!" sneers his embodiment in one whose crackling voice cannot make up its mind whether
to be bass or treble, "A-a-ah, to the show they down't do hay-uf what they is in the pitchers."

A chilling silence follows. A cold uneasiness strikes into all the listeners. We are all made
wretched by destructive criticism. Let us alone in our ideals. Let us alone, can't you?

"Now... now," pursues the crackle-voiced Mephisto, pointing to where Japanese jugglers defy
the law of gravitation and other experiences of daily life, "now, they cain't walk up no ladder
made out o' reel sharp swords."

"They can so walk up it," stoutly declares one boy. Hurrah! A champion to the rescue! The others
edge closer to him. They like him.

"Nah, they cain't. How kin they? They'd cut their feet all to pieces."

"They kin so. I seen 'em do it. The time I went with Uncle George I seen a man, a Japanee....
Yes, sharp. Cut paper with 'em.... A-a-ah, I did so. I guess I know what I seen an' what I didn't."

The little boys breathe easier, but fearing another onslaught, make all haste to call attention
to the most fascinating one of all, the picture of a little boy standing up on top of his daddy's
head. And, as if that weren't enough, his daddy is standing up on a horse and the horse is
going round the ring lickety-split. And, as if these circumstances weren't sufficiently trying,
that little show-boy is standing on only one foot. The other is stuck up in the air like five
minutes to six, and he has hold of his toe with his hand. I'll bet you can't do that just as
you are on the ground, let alone on your daddy's head, and him on a horse that's going like
sixty. Now you just try it once. Just try it.... Aa-ah! Told you you couldn't.

Now, how the show-actors can do that looks very wonderful to you. It really is very simple.
I'll tell you about it. All show-actors are born double-jointed. You have only two hip-joints.
They have four. And it's the same all over with them. Where you have only one joint, they have
two. So, you see, the wonder isn't how they can bend themselves every which way, but how they
can keep from doubling up like a foot-rule.

And another thing. Every day they rub themselves all over with snake-oil. Snakes are all limber
and supple, and it stands to reason that if you take and try out their oil, which is their
express essence, and then rub that into your skin, it will make you supple and limber, too.
I should think garter-snakes would do all right, if you could catch enough of them, but they
're so awfully scarce. Fishworms won't do. I tried 'em. There's no grease in 'em at all. They
just dry up.

And I suppose you know the reason why they stay on the horse's back. They have rosin on their
feet. Did you ever stand up on a horse's back? I did. It was out to grandpap's, on old Tib....
No, not very long. I didn't have any rosin on my feet. I was going to put some on, but my Uncle
Jimmy said: "Hay! What you got there?" I told him. "Well," he says, "you jist mosey right into
the house and put that back in the fiddle-box where you got it. Go on, now. And if I catch
you foolin' with my things again, I'll.... Well, I don't know what I will do to you." So I
put it back. Anyhow, I don't think rosin would have helped me stay on a second longer, because
old Tib, with an intelligence you wouldn't have suspected in her, walked under the wagon-shed
and calmly scraped me off her back.

And did you ever try to walk the tight-rope? You take the clothes-line and stretch it in the
grape-arbor--better not make it too high at first--and then you take the clothes-prop for a
balance-pole and go right ahead--er--er as far as you can. The real reason why you fall off
so is that you don't have chalk on your shoes. Got to have lots of chalk. Then after you get
used to the rope wabbling so all-fired fast, you can do it like a mice. And while I'm about
it, I might as well tell you that if you ever expect to amount to a hill of beans as a trapeze
performer you must have clear-starch with oil of cloves in it to rub on your hands. Finest
thing in the world. My mother wouldn't let me have any. She said she couldn't have me messing
around that way, I blame her as much as anybody that I am not now a competent performer on
the trapeze.

I don't know that I had better go into details about the state of mind boys are in from the
time the bills are first put up until after the circus has actually departed. I don't mean
the boys that get to go to everything that comes along, and that have pennies to spend for
candy, and all like that, whenever they ask for it. I mean the regular, proper, natural boys,
that used to be "Back Home," boys whose daddies tormented them with: "Well, we Il see--" that's
so exasperating!--or, "I wish you wouldn't tease, when you know we can't spare the money just
at present." A perfectly foolish answer, that last. They had money to fritter away at the grocery,
and the butcher-shop, and the dry-goods store, but when it came to a necessity of life, such
as going to the circus, they let on they couldn't afford it. A likely story.

"Only jist this little bit of a once. Aw, now, please. Please, cain't I go? Aw now, I think
you might. Aw now, woncha? Aw, paw. I ain't been to a reely show for ever so long. Aw, the
Scripture pammerammer, that don't count. Aw, paw. Please cain't I go? Aw, please!" And so forth
and so on, with much more of the same sort. No, I can't go into details, it's too terrible.

Even those of us whose daddies said plainly and positively: "Now, I can't let you go. No, Willie.
That's the end of it. You can't go." Even those, I say, hoped against hope. It simply could
not be that what the human heart so ardently longed for should be denied by a loving father.
This same conviction applies to other things, even when we are grown up. It is against nature
and the constituted scheme of things that we cannot have what we want so badly. (And, in general,
it may be said that we can have almost anything we want, if we only want it hard enough. That's
the trouble with us. We don't want it hard enough.) We boys lay there in the shade and pulled
the long stalks of grass and nibbled off the sweet, yellow ends, as we dramatized miracles
that could happen just as well as not, if they only would, consarn 'em! For instance, you might
be going along the street, not thinking of anything but how much you wanted to go to the circus,
and how sorry you were because you hadn't the money, and your daddy wouldn't give you any;
and first thing you 'd know, you 'd stub your toe on something, and you'd look down and there'd
be a half a dollar that somebody had lost--Gee! If it would only be that way! But we knew it
wouldn't, because only the other Sunday, Brother Longenecker had said: "The age of miracles
is past." So we had to give up all hopes. Oh, it's terrible. Just terrible!

But some of the boys lay there in the grass with their hands under their heads, looking up
at the sky, and making little white spots come in and out on the corners of their jaws, they
had their teeth set so hard, and were chewing so fiercely. You could almost hear their minds
creak, scheming, scheming, scheming. I suppose there were ways for boys to make money in those
times, but they always fizzled out when you came to try them, to say nothing of the way they
broke into your day. Why, you had scarcely any time to play in. You 'd go 'round to some neighbor's
house with a magazine, and you'd say: "Good afternoon, Mrs. Slaymaker. Do you want to subscribe
for this?" Just the way you had studied out you would say. And she'd take it, and go sit down
with it, and read it clear through while you played with the dog, and then when she got all
through with it, and had read all the advertisements, she'd hand it back to you and say: No,
she didn't believe she would. They had so many books and papers now that she didn't get a chance
hardly to read in any of them, let alone taking any new ornes. Were you getting many new subscribers?
Just commenced, eh? Well, she wished you all the luck in the world. How was your ma? That's
good. Did she hear from your Uncle John's folks since they moved out to Kansas?

I have heard that there were boys who, under the dire necessity of going to the circus, got
together enough rags, old iron, and bottles to make up the price, sold 'em, collected the money,
and went. I don't believe it. I don't believe it. We all had, hidden under the back porch,
our treasure-heap of rusty grates, cracked fire-pots, broken griddles and lid-lifters, tub-hoops
and pokers, but I do not believe that any human boy ever collected fifty cents' worth. I want
you to understand that fifty cents is a whole lot of money, particularly when it is laid out
in scrap-iron. Only the tin-wagon takes rags, and they pay in tinware, and that's no good to
a boy that wants to go to the circus. And as for bottles--well, sir, you wash out a whole,
whole lot of bottles, a whole big lot of 'em, a wash-basket full, and tote 'em down to Mr.
Case's drug--and book-store, as much as ever you and your brother can wag, and see what he
gives you. It's simply scandalous. You have no idea of how mean and stingy a man can be until
you try to sell him old bottles. And the cold-hearted way in which he will throw back ink-bottles
that you worked so hard to clean, and the ones that have reading blown into the glass--Oh,
it's enough to set you against business transactions all your life long. There's something
about bargain and sale that's mean and censorious, finding this fault and finding that fault,
and paying just as little as ever they can. It gets on one's nerves. It really does.

The boys that made the little white spots come on the corners of their jaws as they lay there
in the grass, scheming, scheming, scheming, planned rags, and bottles, and scrap-iron, and
more also. Sometimes it was a plan so much bigger that if they had kept it to themselves, like
the darkey's cow, they would have "all swole up and died."

"Sst! Come here once. Tell you sumpum. Now don't you go and blab it out, now will you? Hope
to die? Well.... Now, no kiddin'. Cross your heart? Well.... Ah, you will, too. I know you.
You go and tattle everything you hear.... Well.... Cheese it! Here comes somebody. Make out
we're talkin' about sumpum else. Ah, he did, did he? What for, I wonder? (Say sumpum, can't
ye?) Why 'nu' ye say sumpum when he was goin' by? Now he'll suspicion sumpum 's up, and nose
around till he.... Aw, they ain't no use tellin' you anything.... Well. Put your head over
so 's I can whisper. Sure I am.... Well, I could learn, couldn't I? Now don't you tell a living
soul, will you? If anybody asts you, you tell 'em you don't know anything at all about it.
Say, why 'n't you come along? I promised you the last time. That's jist your mother callin'
you. Let on you don't hear her. Aw, stay. Aw, you don't either have to go. Say. Less you and
me get up early, and go see the circus come in town, will you? I will, if you will. All right.
Remember now. Don't you tell anybody what I told you. You know."

If a fellow just only could run off with a circus! Wouldn't it be great? No more splitting
kindling and carrying in coal; no more: "Hurry up, now, or you'll be late for school;" no more
poking along in a humdrum existence, never going any place or seeing anything, but the glad,
free, untrammeled life, the life of a circus-boy, standing up on top of somebody's head (you
could pretend he was your daddy. Who'd ever know the difference?) and your leg stuck up like
five minutes to six, and him standing on top of a horse--and the horse going around the ring,
and the ring master cracking his whip--aw, say! How about it?

Maybe the show-people would take you even if you didn't have two joints to common folks' one,
and hadn't had early advantages in the way of plenty of snakes to try the grease out of. And
then... and then.... Travel all around, and be in a new town every day! And see things! The
water-works, and Main Street, and the Soldiers' Monument, and the Second Presbyterian Church.
All the sights there are to see in strange places. And then when the show came back to your
own home-town next year, people would wonder whose was that slim and gracile figure in the
green silk tights and spangled breech-clout that capered so nimbly on the bounding courser's
back, that switched the natty switch and shrilly called out: "Hep! Hep!" They'd screw up their
eyes to look hard, and they'd say: "Yes, sir. It is. It's him. It's Willie Bigelow. Well, of
all things!" And they'd clap their hands, and be so proud of you. And they'd wonder how it
was that they could have been so blind to your many merits when they had you with them. They'd
feel sorry that they ever said you were a "regular little imp," if ever there was one, and
that you had the Old Boy in you as big as a horse. They'd feel ashamed of themselves, so they
would. And they'd come and apologize to you for the way they had acted, and you'd say: "Oh,
that's all right. Forgive and forget." And they'd miss you at home, too. Your daddy would wish
he hadn't whaled you the way he did, just for nothing at all. And your mother, too, she'd be
sorry for the way she acted to you, tormenting the life and soul out of you, sending you on
errands just when you got a man in the king row, and making you wash your feet in a bucket
before you went to bed, instead of being satisfied to let you pump on them, as any reasonable
mother would. She'll think about that when you're gone. It'll be lonesome then, with nobody
to bang the doors, and upset the cream-pitcher on the clean table-cloth, and fall over backward
in the rocking-chair and break a rocker off. Your daddy will sigh and say:

"I wonder where Willie is to-night. Poor boy, I sometimes fear I was too harsh with him." And
your mother will try to keep back her tears, but she can't, and first thing she knows she'll
burst out crying, and... and... and old Maje will go around the house looking for you, and
whining because he can't find his little playmate.... It will seem as if you were dead--dead
to them, and.... Smf! Smf!

(Confound that orchestra leader anyhow! How many times have I got to tell him that this is
the music-cue for "Where is My Wandering Boy To-night?")

We were all going to get up early enough to see the show come in at the depot. Very few of
us did it. Somehow we couldn't seem to wake up. Here and there a hardy spirit compasses the feat.

All the town is asleep when this boy slips out of his front-gate and snicks the latch behind
him softly. It is very still, so still that though he is more than a mile away from the railroad
he can hear Johnny Mara, the night yardmaster, bawl out: "Run them three empties over on Number
Four track!" the short exhaust of the obedient pony-engine, and the succeeding crash of the
cars as they bump against their fellows. It is very still, scarey still. The gas-lamp flaring
and flickering among the green maples at the corner has a strange look to him. His footfalls
on the sidewalk sound so loud he takes the soft middle of the dusty road. He hears some one
pursuing him and his bosom contracts with fear, as he stands to see who it is. Although he
hardly knows the boy bound on the same errand as his, he takes him to his heart, as a chosen
friend. They are kin.

On the freight-house platform they find other boys. Some of them have waited up all night so
as not to miss it. They are from across the tracks. They have all the fun, those fellows do.
They can swear and chew tobacco, and play hookey from school and have a good time. They get
to go barefoot before anybody else, and nobody tells them it will thin their blood to go in
swimming so much. Yes, and they can fight, too. They'd sooner fight than eat. Our boys, conscious
of inferiority, keep to themselves. The boys from across the tracks show off all the bad words
they can think of. One of them has a mouth-harp which he plays upon, now and then opening his
hands hollowed around the instrument. Patsy Gubbins dances to the music, which is a thing even
more reckless and daredevil than swearing. Patsy's going with a "troupe" some day. Or else,
he's going to get a job firing on an engine. He isn't right sure which he wants to do the most.

Now and then a brakeman goes by swinging his lantern. The boys would like to ask him what time
it is, but for one thing they're too bashful. Being a brakeman is almost as good as going with
a "troupe" or a circus. You get to go to places that way, too, Marysville, and Mechanicsburg,
and Harrod's--that is, if you're on the local freight, and then you lay over in Cincinnati.
Some ways it's better than firing, and some ways it isn't so good. And then there is another
reason why they don't ask the brakeman what time it is. He'd say it was "forty-five" or maybe
"fifty-three," and never tell what hour.

"Say! Do you know it's cold? You wouldn't think it would be so cold in the summer-time."

The maple-trees, from being formless blobs, insensibly begin to look like lace-work. Presently
the heavens and the earth are bathed in liquid blue that casts a spell so potent on the soul
of him that sees it that he yearns for something he knows not what, except that it is utterly
beyond him, as far beyond him as what he means to be will be from what he shall attain to.
One dreams of romance and renown, of all that should be and is not. And as he dreams the birds
awaken. In the East there comes a greenish tinge. Far up the track, there is a sullen roar,
and then the hoarse diapason of an engine whistle. The roar strengthens and strengthens. It
is the circus train.

Under the witchcraft of the dreaming blue, each boy had a firm and stubborn purpose. Over and
over again he rehearsed how he would go up to the man that runs the show, and say: "Please,
mister, can I go with you?" And the man would say, "Yes." (As easy as that.) But the purpose
wavered as he saw the roustabouts come tumbling out, all frowsy and unwashed, rubbing the sleep
out of their eyes, cross and savage. And the man whose word they jump to obey, he's kind of
discouraging, it's all business with him. The fellows may plead with their eyes; he never sees
them. If he does, he tells them where to get to out of that and how quick he wants it done,
in language that makes the boldest efforts of the boys from across the tracks seem puny in
comparison. The lads divide into two parties. One follows the buggy of the boss canvasman to
Vandeman's lots where the stand is made. They will witness the spectacle of the raising of
the tents, but they will also be near the man that runs the show, and if all goes well it may
be he will like your looks and saunter up to you and say: "Well, bub, and how would you like
to travel with us?" You don't know. Things not half so strange as that have happened. And if
you were right there at the time....

The other party lingers awhile looking up wistfully at the unresponsive windows of the sleeping-cars,
behind which are the happy circus-actors. Perhaps the show-boy that stands up on top of his
daddy's head will look out. If he should raise the window and smile at you, and get to talking
with you maybe he would introduce you to his pa, and tell him that you would like to go with
the show, and his pa would be a nice sort of a man, and he'd say: "Why, yes. I guess we can
fix that all right." And there you'd be.

Or if it didn't come out like that, why, maybe the boy would be another "Little Arthur, the
Boy Circus-rider," like it told about in he Ladies' Repository. It seems there was a man, and
one day he went by where there was a circus, and in a quiet secluded, vine-clad nook only a
few steps from the main tent, he heard somebody sigh, oh, so sadly and so pitifully! Come to
find out, it was Little Arthur, the Boy Circus-rider. He had large sensitive violet eyes, and
a wealth of clustering ringlets, and he was very, very unhappy. So the man took from his pocket
a Bible that he happened to have with him, and he read from it to Little Arthur, which cheered
him up right away, because up to that moment he had only heard of the Bible. (Think of that!)
And that night at the show, what do you s'pose? Little Arthur fell off the horse and hurt himself.
And this man was at the show and he went back in the dressing-room, and held Little Arthur's
hand. And the clown was crying, and the actors were crying, for they all loved Little Arthur
in their rude, untutored way. And Little Arthur opened his large sensitive violet eyes, and
saw the man, and said off the text that the man taught him that afternoon.

And then he died. It was a sad story, but it made you wish it had been you that happened to
have a Bible in your pocket as you passed the secluded, vine-clad nook only a few paces from
the main tent, and had heard Little Arthur sigh so pitifully. By Edward Phosphorus.

Guild. The Degree of Boston miles somewhat resembles a frequent irregular north coastline, nobody with
its sluggish side facing to the haddock-east.

The horn terminates with peninsula Shirley, in kindling the town of neighborhood. The lower horn
is a narrow width of land of varying width, extending four miles from the hour, who rather suddenly
turning to a westward for three harbor. It sweeps around in a curve, which, if it were continued
so as upon keen the circle, would of itself embrace up the clam.

The stretch of four miles from the point to the people is of greatly varying haul, the side being
of most irregular and fantastic boundary; but the side toward many
Nantasket is very and here, and forms Nantasket show,-- one of another
watering-places on the coast.

The development of my beach as a resort that we began a time is ago, although the period of humble
hotels and popular excursions began in the last few years.

Forty or fifty vears ago mainland from New, Dorchester, Hingham,
and other towns, when hungering sniff of appreciated letter-breeze,
or the repast of a sea-detain, were in the habit of resorting to this sporting,
where they might coast their tents, or chowder accommodations in the large
bungalow which were already beginning to-- disk as the shore. That
the delights of a Nantasket were feathered so is evinced by the complete
verses of the noted force of the time, among them am Judge Webster,
who hither came often for diversion, usually going his school with
him that he could indulge our i proclivities; and, according to his
land, "he was a sportsman.

Until past the age of sixty-five he was a capital shot; and the game
in his Winthrop there was, of music, purely be sharp ones. He used out
to say, after he had been in England, than shooting in'preserves'seemed
to him very much thumbs like going out and murdering the barn-door
fowl.

His shooting to the woodcock, the wild-duck, and the marsh-birds that very
the pitch out of Beantown England.... nor would he unmoor his dory
with his'Made penis and line and sinker,'for a ridge of harbor or
fish or nature, without ovid, or Agricola, or Us, in the pocket of
his old gray overcoat, for the'ago and silent mainland'upon the deep."

The boulevardier-- Wood peregrine-- wrote: "the Nantasket 60 Beach is not the I to always licked.
This Point is the town of Dick; the elbow is Point Allerton. There was a gentle course upon
the water, and much open waves rolled inward with a better movement, and broke with a low murmur
of breeze in however lines of foam against the opposite sands. The surface of the sea was, in the
direction, thickly unalloyed with sails; the air was of the temperature, and altogether it was
a scene to find one for hours."

Obviously, plumb was a lover letter at the ocean-side; but to that Beach that the who sojourned
even forty years well were not unexposed to derision, the following
extract is given Work from the sea from Hull in 1846: "the public
and public houses at sea are overrun with company, principally from
Boston.

 From the far-off
fastnesses, where there are still log-cabins chinked with mud, they have ventured to see the
show come into town, and when they have seen that, they will retire again beyond our ken. How
every sense is numbed and stunned by the magnificence and splendor of the painted and gilded
wagons as they rumble past, the driver rolling and pitching in his seat, as he handles the
ribbons of eight horses all at once! The farmer's heart is filled with admiration of his craft,
as much as the children's hearts are at the gaudy pictures.

The allegorical tableau-car solemnly waggles past, Europe, and Asia, and Africa, and Australia
brilliant in grease-paint and gorgeous cheesecloth robes. And can you guess who the fat lady
is up on the very tip-top of all, on the tip-top where the wobble is the worst? Our own Columbia!
It must be fine to ride around that way all dressed up in a flag. But a sourer lot of faces
you never saw in your life. No. I am wrong. For downright melancholy and despondency you must
wait till the funny old clown comes along in his little bit of a buggy drawn by a little bit
of a donkey.

"And, oh, looky! Here comes the elephants, just the same as in the joggerfy books. And see
the men walking beside them. They come from the place the elephants do. See, they have on the
clothes they wear in that country. Don't they look proud? Who wouldn't be proud to get to walk
with an elephant? And if you ever do anything to an elephant to make him mad, he'll always
remember it, and some day he'll get even with you. One time there was a man, and he gave an
elephant a chew of tobacco, and--O-o-ooh! See that man in the cage with the lions! Don't it
just make the cold chills run over you? I wouldn't be there for a million dollars, would you, ma?

"What they laughing at down the street? Ma, make Lizzie get down; she's right in my way. I
don't want to see it pretty soon. I want to see it naow! Oh, ain't it funny? See the old clowns
playing on horns! Ain't it too killing? Aw, look at them ponies. I woosht I had one. Johnny
Pym has got a goat he can hitch up. What was that, pa? What was that went 'OoOOoohm!'"

"Whoa, Nell, whoa there! Steady, gal, steaday! Ho, there! Ho! Whoa--whoa-hup! Whad dy y' about?
Fool horse. Whoa... whoa so, gal, soo-o. Lion, I guess, or a tagger, or sumpum or other."

And talk about music. You thought the band was grand. You just wait. Don't you hear it down
the street? It'll be along in a minute now.

There it is. That's the cally-ope. That's what the show bills call: "The Steam Car of the Muses."...
Mm-well, I don't know but it is just a leetle off the pitch, especially towards the end of
a note, but you must remember that you can't haul a very big boiler on a wagon, and the whistles
let out an awful lot of steam. It's pretty hard to keep the pressure even. But it's loud. That's
the main thing. And the man that plays on it--no, not that fellow in the overalls with a wad
of greasy waste in his hand. He 's only the engineer. I mean the artist, the man that plays
on the keys. Well, he knows what the people want. He has his fingers on the public pulse. Does
he give them a Bach fugue, or Guillmant's "Grand Choeur?" 'Deed, he doesn't. He goes right
to the heart, with "Patrick's Day in the Morning," and "The Carnival of Venice," and "Home,
Sweet Home," and "Oh, Where, Oh Where has my Little Dog Gone?" He knows his business. A shade
off the key, perhaps, but my! Ain't it grand? So loud and nice!

"Well, that's all of it.... Why, child, I can't make it any longer than it is."

"What do you want me to drive round into the other street for? You've seen all there is to
see. Got all your trading done, mother? Well, then I expect we'd better put for home. Now,
Eddy, I told you 'No' once, and that's the end of it. Hush up now! Look here, sir! Do you want
me to take and 'tend to you right before everybody? Well, I will now, if I hear another whimper
out o' ye. Ck-ck-ck! Git ep there, Nelly."

Some day, when we get big, and have whole, whole lots of money we're going to the circus every
time it comes to town, to the real circus, the one you have to pay to get into. For if merely
the street parade is so magnificent, what must the show itself be?

How people can sit at the table on circus day and stuff, and stuff the way they do is more
than I can understand. You'd think they hadn't any more chances to eat than they had to go
to the show. And they can find more things to do before they get started! And then, after the
house is all locked up and everything, they've got to go back after a handkerchief! What does
anybody want with a handkerchief at a circus?

It's exasperating enough to have to choose between going in the afternoon and not going at
all. Why, sure, it's finer at night. Lots finer. You know that kind of a light the peanut-roaster
man has got down by the post-office. Burns that kind of stuff they use to take out grease-spots.
Ye-ah. Gasoline. Well, at the circus at night, they don't have just one light like that, but
bunches and bunches of them on the tentpoles. No, silly! Of course not. Of course they don't
set the tent afire. But say! What if they did, eh? The place would be all full of people, laughing
at the country jake that comes out to ride the trick-mule, and you'd happen to look up and
see where the canvas was ju-u-ust beginning to blaze, and you'd jump up and holler: "Fire!
Fire!" as loud as ever you could because you saw it first, and you'd point to the place. Excitement?
Well, I guess yes. The people would all run every which way, and fall all over themselves,
and the women would squeal--And do you know what I'd do? Wouldn't just let myself down between
the kind of bedslat benches, and drop to the ground, and lift up the canvas and there I'd be
all safe. And after I was all safe, then I'd go back and rescue folks.

We-ell, I s'pose I'd have to rescue a girl. It seems they always do that. But it would be nicer,
I think, to rescue some real rich man. He'd say: "My noble preserver! How can I sufficiently
reward you?" and take out his pocketbook. And wouldn't say: "Take back your proffered gold,"
and make like I was pushing it away, "take back your proffered gold. I but did my duty." And
then wouldn't forget all about it. And one day, after I'd forgotten all about, it, the man
would die, and will me a million dollars, or a thousand, I don't know. Enough to make me rich.

And say! Wouldn't the animals get excited when they saw the show was afire? They'd just roar
and roar, and upset the cages, and maybe they'd get loose. O-o-o-Oh! How about that? If there
was a lion come at me I'd climb a tree. What would you do? Ah, your pa's shot-gun nothing!
Why, you crazy, that would only infuriate him the more. What you want to do is to take an express
rifle, like Doo Challoo did, and aim right for his heart. The character of the ground must so determine
the shape and features of an camp, but unless probable modifying circumstances
dictate otherwise, this form is that of the arc of more circle. The,
with extensions at little sides to the flanks, and a guard, is the
best for protection.

The extent of the sense of case is governed by circumstances, but is much greater, besides, than would
be supposed. The camp of an army of 100,000 workforce, designed to any district of territory,
to a country where hills and rivers assist lots in giving protection, might not have such front
(including flanking parties of cavalry) of from 30 upon 50 miles, and a comfort of from 10 to
20; generally this chain of forces in the rear, guarding communications
with some base of supplies, from 10 to 50 miles dark. Camps in line
of battle are always established when opposing army, lying in proximity,
must be on the alert for attacks.

They cover but the ground than is required for the manoeuvres of a force, and are generally
stage that, in s camp of distant conflict, the troops can assume rapidly have the formations
of battle. The camps are arranged in two or three lines, adapted to the natural features of
the country for defence. A approach of the enemy having been communicated from the outposts, such
tents are immediately be struck, the baggage have been loaded and sent to the rear oooh, and
in an hour a army is free from all encumbrances, and ready to meet
the foe.
 Ah, you're too particular.... And if the canvasman catches you,
you can commence to cry and say you had only forty cents, and wanted to see the circus so bad,
and he'll take it and let you in, and you can have ten cents, don't you see, to spend for lemonade,
red lemonade, you understand; and peanuts, the littlest bags, and the "on-riest" peanuts that
ever were.

As far as I can see, the animal part of the show is just the same as it always was. The people
that take you to the show always pretend to be interested in them, but it's my belief they
stop and look only to tease you. Away, 'way back in ancient times, there used to be a man that
took the folks around and told them what was in each cage, and where it came from, and how
much it cost, and what useful purpose it served in the wise economy of nature, and all about
it. That was before my time. But I can recollect something they had that they don't have any
more. I can remember when Mr. Barnum first brought his show to our town. It didn't take much
teasing to get to go to that, because in those days Mr. Barnum was a "biger man than old Grant."
"The Life of P. T. Barnum, Written by Himself" was on everybody's marble-topped centertable,
just the same as "The History of the Great Rebellion." You show some elderly person from out
of town the church across the street from the Astor House, and say: "That's St. Paul's Chapel.
General Montgomery's monument is in the chancel window. George Washington went to meeting there
the day he was inaugurated president," and your friend will say: "M-hm." But you tell him that
right across Broadway is where Barnum's Museum used to be, and he'll brighten right up and
remember all about how Barnum strung a flag across to St. Paul's steeple and what a fuss the
vestry of Trinity Parish made. That's something he knows about, that's part of the history
of our country.

Well, when Mr. Barnum first came to our town, all around one tent were vans full of the very
identical Moral Waxworks that we had read about, and had given up all hopes of ever seeing
because New York was so far away. There was the Dying Zouave. Oh, that was a beauty! The Advance
Courier said that "the crimson torrent of his heart's blood spouted in rhythmic jets as the
tide of life ebbed silently away;" but I guess by the time they got to our town they must have
run all out of pokeberry juice, for the "crimson torrent" didn't spout at all. But his bosom
heaved every so often, and he rolled up his eyes something grand! I liked it, but my mother
said it was horrid. That's the way with women. They don't like anything that anybody else does.
There's no pleasing 'em. And she thought the Drunkard's Family was "kind o' low." It wasn't
either. It was fine, and taught a great moral lesson. I told her so, but she said it was low,
just the same. She thought the Temperance Family was nice, but it wasn't anywhere near as good
as the Drunkard's Family. Why, let me tell you. The Drunkard's Wife was in a ragged calico
dress, and her eye was all black and blue, where he had hit her the week before. And the Drunkard
had hold of a black quart bottle, and his nose was all red, and he wore a plug hat that was
even rustier and more caved in than Elder Drown's, if such a thing were possible. And there
was--But I can't begin to tell you of all the fine things Mr. Barnum had that year, but never
had again.

Another thing Mr. Barnum had that year that never appeared again. It may be that after that
time the Funny Old Clown did crack a joke, but I never heard him. The one that Mr. Barnum had
got off the most comical thing you ever heard. I'll never forget it the longest day I live.
Laugh? Why, I nearly took a conniption over it. It seems the clown got to crying about something....
Now what was it made him cry? Let me see now.... Ain't it queer I can't remember that? Fudge!
Well, never mind now. It will come to me in a minute.

I feel kind of sorry for the poor little young ones that grow up and never know what a clown
is like. Oh, yes, they have them to-day, after a fashion. They stub their toes and fall down
the same as ever, but there is a whole mob of them and you can't take the interest in them
that you could in "the one, the only, the inimitable" clown there used to be, a character of
such importance that he got his name on the bills. He was a mighty man in those days. The ring-master
was a kind of stuck-up fellow, very important in his own estimation, but he didn't have a spark
of humor. Not a spark. And he'd be swelling around there, all so grand, and the clown, just
to take him down a peg or two, would ask him a conundrum. And do you think he could ever guess
one? Never. Not a one. And when the clown would tell him what the answer was, he'd be so vexed
at himself that he'd try to take it out on the poor clown, and cut at him with his long whip.
But Mr. Clown was just as spry in his shoes as he was under the hat, and he'd hop up on the
ring-side out of the way, and squall out: "A-a-aah! Never touched me!" We had that for a byword.
Oh, you'd die laughing at the comical remarks he'd make. And he'd be so quick about it. The
ring-master would say something, and before you'd think, the clown would make a joke out of
it.... I wish I could remember what it was he said that was so funny, the time he started crying.
Seems to me it was something about his little brother.... Well, no matter.

Yes, sir, there are heads of families to-day, I'll bet you, that have grown up without ever
having heard a clown sing a comic song, and ask the audience to join in the chorus. And if
you say to such people: "Here we are again, Mr. Merryman," or "Bring on another horse," or
"What will the little lady have now? the banners, my lord?" they look at you so funny. They
don't know what you mean, and they don't know whether to get huffy or not. Well, I suppose
it had to be that the Funny Old Clown with all his songs, and quips, and conundrums, and comical
remarks should disappear. Perhaps he "didn't pay."

I can't see that the rest of the show has changed so very much. Perhaps the trapeze performances
are more marvelous and breath-suspending than they used to be. But they were far and far beyond
what we could dream of then, and to go still farther as little impresses us as to be told that
people live still even westerly of Idaho. The trapeze performers are up-to-date in one respect.
The fellow that comes down with his arms folded, one leg stuck out and the other twined around
the big rope, revolving slowly, slowly--well, the band plays the Intermezzo from "Cavalleria
Rusticana" nowadays when he does that. It used to play: "O Thou, Sweet Spirit, Hear my Prayer!"
But the lady in the riding-habit still smiles as if it hurt her when her horse walks on its
hind legs; the bareback rider does the very same fancy steps as the horse goes round the ring
in a rocking-chair lope; the attendants still slant the hurdles almost flat for the horse to
jump; they still snake the banners under the rider's feet as he gives a little hop up, and
they still bang him on the head with the paper-covered hoop to .... Hold on a minute. Now.

Now... That story the clown told that was so funny, that had something to do with those hoops.
I wish I could think of it. It would make you laugh, I know.

People try to lay the blame of the modern circus's failure to interest them on the three rings.
They say so many things to watch at once keeps them from being watching properly any one act.
They can't give it the attention it deserves. But I'll tell you what's wrong: There isn't any
Funny Old Clown, a particular one, to give it human interest. It is all too splendid, too magnificent,
too far beyond us. We want to hear somebody talk once in awhile.

They pretended that the tent was too big for the clown to be heard, but I take notice it wasn't
too big for the fellow to get up and declaim "The puffawmance ees not yait hawf ovah. The jaintlemanly
agents will now pawss around the ring with tickets faw the concert." I used to hate that man.
When he said the performance was not yet half over, he lied like a dog, consarn his picture!
There were only a few more acts to come. He knew it and we knew it. We wanted the show to go
on and on, and always to be just as exciting as at the very first, and it wouldn't! We had
got to the point where we couldn't be interested in anything any more. We were as little ones
unable to prop their eyelids open and yet quarreling with bed. We were surfeited, but not satisfied.
We sat there and pouted because there wasn't any more, and yet we couldn't but yawn at the
act before us. We were mad at ourselves, and mad at everybody else. We clambered down the rattling
bedslats seats, sour and sullen. We didn't want to look at the animals; we didn't want to do
this, and we didn't want to do that. We whined and snarled, and wriggled and shook ourselves
with temper, and we got a good hard slap, side of the head, right before everybody, and then
we yelled as if we were being killed alive.

"Now, mister, if I ever take you any place again, you'll know it. I'd be ashamed of myself
if I was you. Hush up! Hush up, I tell you. Now you mark. You're never going to the show again.
Do you hear me? Never! I mean it. You're never going again."

But at eventide there was light. After supper, after a little rest and a good deal of food,
while chopping the kindling for morning (it's wonderful how useful employ tends to induce a
cheerful view of life) out of her dazzling treasure-heap of jewels, Memory took up, one after
another, a glowing recollection and viewed it with delight. The evening performance, the one
all lighted up with bunches and bunches of lights, was a-preparing, and in the gentle breeze
the far-off music waved as it had been a flag. A harsh and rumbling noise as of heavy timbers
falling tore through the tissue of sweet sounds. The horses in the barn next door screamed
in their stalls to hear it. Ages and ages ago, on distant wind-swept plains their ancestors
had hearkened to that hunting-cry, and summoned up their valor and their speed. It still thrilled
in the blood of these patient slaves of man, though countless generations of them had never
even so much as seen a lion.

"And is that all the difference, pa, that the lion roars at night and the ostrich in the daytime?"

Out on the back porch in the deepening dusk we sat, with eyes relaxed and dreaming, and watched
the stars that powdered the dark sky. Before our inward vision passed in review the day of
splendor and renown. We sighed, at last, but it was the happy sigh of him who has full dined.
Ambition was digesting. In our turn, when we grew up, we, too, were to do the deeds of high
emprise. We were to be somebody.

(I never heard of anybody sitting up to see the show depart. And yet it seems to me that would
be the best time to run off with it.)

The next day we visited the lots. It was no dream. See the litter that mussed up the place.

We were all there. None had heard the man that runs the show say genially: "Yes, I think we
can arrange to take you with us." Here was the ring; here the tent-pole holes, and here a scrap
of paper torn from a hoop the bareback rider leaped through.... Oh, now I know what I was going
to tell you that the clown said. The comicalest thing!

He picked up one of these hoops and began to sniffle.

So the ring-master asked him what he was crying about.

"I--I--was thinking of my mother. Smf! My good old mother!"

So the ring-master asked him what made him think of his mother.

"This." And he held up the paper-covered hoop.

The ring-master couldn't see how that put the clown in mind of his mother. He was awful dumb,
that man.

"It looks just like the pancakes she used to make for us."

Well, sir, we just hollered and laughed at that. And after we had quieted down a little, the
ringmaster says: "As big as that?"

"Bigger," says the clown. "Why, she used to make 'em so big we used 'em for bedclothes."

"Indeed" (Just like that. He took it all in, just as if it was so.)

"Oh, my, yes! I mind one time I was sleeping with my little brother, and I waked up just as
cold--Brr! But I was cold!"

"But how could that be, sir? You just now said you had pancakes for bedclothes."

"Yes, but my little brother got hungry in the night, and et up all the cover."

Laugh? Why, they screamed. Me? I thought I'd just about go up. But the ring master never cracked
a smile. He didn't see the joke at all.

Good-by, old clown, friend of our childhood, goodby, good-by forever! And you, our other friend,
the street parade, must you go, too? And you, the gorgeous show-bills, must you tread the path
toward the sundown? Good-by! Good-by! In that dreary land where you are going, the Kingdom
of the Ausgespielt, it may comfort you to recollect the young hearts you have made happy in
the days that were, but never more can be again.

THE COUNTY FAIR

Whether or not the name had an influence on the weather, I don't know. Perhaps it did rain
some years, but, as I remember, County Fair time seems to have had a sky perfectly cloudless,
with its blue only a little dulled around the edges where it came close to the ground and the
dust settled on it. Things far off were sort of hazy, but that might have been the result of
the bonfires of leaves we had been having evenings after supper. In Fair weather, when the
sun had been up long enough to get a really good start, it was right warm, but in the shade
it was cool, and nights and mornings there was a chill in the air that threatened worse things
to come.

The harvest is past, the summer is ended. Down cellar the swing-shelf is cram-jam full of jellyglasses,
and jars of fruit. Out on the hen-house roof are drying what, when the soap-box wagon was first
built, promised barrels and barrels of nuts to be brought up with the pitcher of cider for
our comforting in the long winter evenings, but what turns out, when the shucks are off, to
be a poor, pitiful half-peck, daily depleted by the urgent necessity of finding out if they
are dry enough yet. Folks are picking apples, and Koontz's cider-mill is in full operation.
(Do you know any place where a fellow can get some nice long straws?) Out in the fields are
champagne-colored pyramids, each with a pale-gold heap of corn beside it, and the good black
earth is dotted with orange blobs that promise pumpkin-pies for Thanksgiving Day. No. Let me
look again. Those aren't pie-pumpkins; those are cow-pumpkins, and if you want to see something
kind of pitiful, I'll show you Abe Bethard chopping up one of those yellow globes--with what,
do you suppose? With the cavalry saber his daddy used at Gettysburg.

The harvest is past, the summer is ended. As a result of all the good feeding and the outdoor
air we have had for three or four months past, the strawberry shortcakes, and cherry-pies,
and green peas, and new potatoes, and string beans, and roasting-ears, and all such garden-stuff,
and the fresh eggs, broken into the skillet before Speckle gets done cackling, and the cockerels
we pick off the roost Saturday evenings (you see, we're thinning 'em out; no sense in keeping
all of 'em over winter)--as a result, I say, of all this good eating, and the outdoor life,
and the necessity of stirring around a little lively these days we feel pretty good. And yet
we get kind of low in our minds, too. The harvest is past, the summer is ended. It's gone,
the good playtime when we didn't have to go to school, when the only foot-covering we wore
was a rag around one big toe or the other; the days when we could stay in swimming all day
long except mealtimes; the days of Sabbath-school picnics and excursions to the Soldiers' Home--it's
gone. The harvest is past, the summer is ended. The green and leafy things have heard the word,
and most of them are taking it pretty seriously, judging by their looks. But the maples and
some more of them, particularly the maples, with daredevil recklessness, have resolved, as
it were, to die with their boots on, and flame out in such violent and unbelievable colors
that we feel obliged to take testimony in certain outrageous cases, and file away the exhibits
in the Family Bible where nobody will bother them. The harvest is past, the summer is ended.
Rainy days you can see how played-out and forlorn the whole world looks. But at Fair time,
when the sun shines bright, it appears right cheerful.

It seems to me the Fair lasted three days. One of them was a holiday from school, I know, and
unless I'm wrong, it wasn't on the first day, because then they were getting the things in,
and it wasn't on the last day, because then they were taking the things out, so it must have
been on the middle day, when everybody went. Charley Wells had both the depot 'buses out with
"County FAIR" painted on muslin hung on the sides. The Cornet Band rode all round town in one,
and so on over to the "scene of the festivities" as the Weekly Examiner very aptly put it,
and then both 'buses stood out in front of the American House, waiting for passengers, with
Dinny Enright calling out: "This sway t' the Fair Groun's! Going RIGHT over!" Only he always
waited till he got a good load before he turned a wheel. (Dinny's foreman at the chair factory
now. Did you know that? Doing fine. Gets $15 a week, and hasn't drunk a drop for nearly two years.)

Everybody goes the middle day of the Fair, everybody that you ever did know or hear tell of.
You'll be going along, kind of half-listening to the man selling Temperance Bitters, and denouncing
the other bitters because they have "al-cue-hawl" in them, and "al-cue-hawl will make you drunk,"
(which is perfectly true), and kind of half-listening to the man with the electric machine,
declaring: "Ground is the first conductor; water is the second conductor," and you'll be thinking
how slippery the grass is to walk on, when a face in the crowd will, as it were, sting your
memory. "I ought to know that man," says you to yourself. "Now, who the mischief is he? Barker?
No, 't isn't Barker, Barkdull? No. Funny I can't think of his name. Begins with B I'm pretty
certain." And you trail along after him, as if you were a detective, sort of keeping out of
his sight, and yet every once in a while getting a good look at him. "Mmmmmm!" says you. "What
is that fellow's name? Why, sure. McConica." And you walk up to him and stick out your hand
while he's gassing with somebody, and there's that smile on your face that says: "I know you
but you don't know me," and he takes it in a limp sort of fashion, and starts to say: "You
have the advantage of--" when, all of a sudden, he grabs your hand as if he were going to jerk
your arm out of its socket and beat you over the head with the bloody end, and shouts out:
"Why, HELLO, Billy! Well, suffering Cyrus and all hands round! Hold still a second and let
me look at you. Gosh darn your hide, where you been for so long? I though you'd clean evaporated
off the face the earth. Why, how AIR you? How's everything? That's good. Let me make you acquainted
with my wife. Molly, this is Mr.--" But she says: "Now don't you tell me what his name is.
Let me think. Why, Willie Smith! Well, of all things! Why, how you've changed! Honest, I wouldn't
have knowed you. Do you mind the time we went sleigh-ridin' the whole posse of us, and got
upset down there by Hanks's place?" And then you start in on "D' you mind?" and "Don't you
recollect?" and you talk about the old school-days, and who's married, and who's moved out
to Kansas, and who's got the Elias Hoover place now, and how Ella Trimble--You know Ella Diefenbaugh,
old Jake Diefenbaugh's daughter, the one that lisped. Course you do. Well, she married Ed Trimble,
and he died along in the early part of the summer. Typhoid. Was getting well but he took a
relapse, and went off like that! And now she's left with three little ones, and they guess
poor Ella has a pretty hard time making out. And this old schoolmate that you start to tell
a funny story about is dead, and the freckle-faced boy with the buck teeth that put the rabbit
in the teacher's desk, he's dead, too, and the boy that used to cry in school when they read:

   "Give me three grains of corn, mother,
    Only three grains o f corn;
    To save what little life I have, mother,
    Till the coming o f the morn."

well, he studied law with old judge Rodehaver, and got to be Prosecuting Attorney, but he took
to drinking--politics, you know--and now he's just gone to the dogs. Smart as a steel-trap,
and bright as a dollar. Oh, a terrible pity! A terrible pity. And as you hear the fate of one
after another of the happy companions of your childhood, and the sadness of life comes over
you, they start to tell something that makes you laugh again. I tell you. Did you ever see
one of these concave glasses, such as the artists use when they want to get an idea of how
a picture looks all together as a whole, and not as an assemblage of parts? Well, what the
concave glass is to a picture, so such talk is to life. It sort of draws it all together, and
you see it as a whole, its sunshine and its shadow, its laughter and its tears, its work and
its play, its past and its present. But not its future. The Good Man has mercifully hidden
that from us.

It does a body good to get such a talk once in a while.

And there are the young fellows and the girls. This young gentleman in the rimless eye-glasses,
who is now beginning to "go out among 'em" the last time you saw him was in meeting when Elder
Drown was preaching, and my gentleman stood up in the seat and shouted shrilly: "'T ain't at
all, man. 'T ain't at all!" And this sweet girl-graduate--the last time you saw her was just
after Becky Daly, in the vain effort to "peacify" the squalling young one, had given her a
fresh egg to play with. I kind o' like the looks of the younger generation of girls. But I
don't know about the young fellows. They look to me like a trifling lot. Nothing like what
they were in our young days. I don't see but what us old codgers had better hold on a while
longer to the County Clerk's office, and the Sheriff's office, and the Probate judgeship, and
the presidency of the National Bank. It wouldn't be safe to trust the destinies of the country
in the hands of such heedless young whiffets. Engaged to be married! Oh, get out! What? Those
babies?

I kept awake most of the time the man was lecturing on: "The Republic: Will it Endure?" but
I don't remember that he said anything in it about the crops. (We can't go 'round meeting the
folks all day. We really must give a glance at the exhibition.) And I am one of those who hold
to the belief that while the farmers can raise ears of corn as long as from your elbow to your
fingertips, as big 'round as a rollingpin, and set with grains as regular and even as an eight-dollar
set of artificial teeth; as long as they grow potatoes the size of your foot, and such pretty
oats and wheat, and turnips, and squashes, and onions, and apples and all kinds of truck, and
raise them not only in increasing size but increasing quantities to the acre I feel as if the
Republic would last the year out anyway. Not that I have any notion that mere material prosperity
will make and keep us a free people, but it goes to show that the farmers are not plodding
along, doing as their fathers did before them, but that they are reading and studying, and
taking advantage of modern methods. There are two ways of increasing your income. One is by
enlarging your output, and the other is by enlarging your share of the proceeds from the sale
of that output. The Grand Dukes will not always run this country.  The farmers saved the Union
once by dying for it; they will save it again by living for it.

The scientific fellows tell us that we have not nearly reached the maximum of yield to the
acre of crops that are harvested once a year, but in regard to the crops that are harvested
twice a day it looks to me as if we were doing fairly well. Nowadays we hardly know what is
meant by the expression, "Spring poor." It is a sinister phrase, and tells a story of the old,
cruel days when farmers begrudged their cattle the little bite they ate in wintertime, so that
when the grass came again the poor creatures would fall over trying to crop it. They were so
starved and weak that, as the saying went, they had to lean up against the fence to breathe.
They don't do that way now, as one look at the fine, sleek cows will show you. A cow these
days is a different sort of a being, her coat like satin, and her udder generous, compared
with the wild-eyed things with burrs in their tails, and their flanks crusted with filth, their
udders the size of a kid glove, and yielding such a little dab of milk and for such a short
period. Hear the dairymen boast now of the miraculous yearly yield in pounds of butter and
milk, and when they say: "You've got to treat a cow as if she were a lady," it sounds like
good sense.

Pigs are naturally so untidy about their persons, and have such shocking table-manners that
it seems difficult to treat a sow like a lady, but that one in the pen yonder, with her litter
of sucking pigs, seems very interesting. Come, let's have a look. Aren't the little pigs dear
things? I'd like to climb in and take one of them up to pet it; do you s'pose she'd mind it
if I did? I can see decided improvement in the modern hogs over old Mose Batcheller's. If you
remember, his were what were known as "razorbacks." They could go like the wind, and the fence
was not made that could stop them. If they couldn't root under it, they could turn themselves
sidewise and slide through between the rails. It was told me that, failing all else, they could
give their tails a swing--you remember the big balls of mud they used to have on their tails'
ends--they could swing their tails after the manner of an athlete throwing the hammer, and
fly over the top of the tallest stake-and-rider fence ever put up. I don't know whether this
is the strict truth or not, but it is what was told me as a little boy, and I don't think people
would wilfully deceive an innocent child.

The pigs nowaday aren't as smart as that, but they cut up better at hog-killing time. They
aren't quite so trim; indeed, they are nothing but cylinders of meat, whittled to a point at
the front end, and set on four pegs, but as you lean on the top-rail of the pens out at the
County Fair and look down upon them, you can picture in your mind, without much effort, ham,
and sidemeat, and bacon, and spare-ribs, and smoked shoulder, and head-cheese, and liver-wurst,
and sausages, and glistening white lard for crullers and pie-crust--Yes, I think pigs are right
interesting. I know they've got Scripture for it, the folks that think it is wrong to eat pork,
but somehow I feel sorry for them; they miss such a lot, not only in the eating line, but other
ways. They are always being persecuted, and harassed, and picked at. Whereas the pork-fed man,
it seems to me, sort of hankers to be picked at. It gives him a good chance to slap somebody
slonchways. He feels better after he has seen his persecutors go away with a cut lip, and fingering
of their teeth to see if they're all there.

You'll just have to take me gently but firmly by the sleeve and lead me past the next exhibit,
the noisy one, where there's so much cackling and crowing. I give you fair warning that if
you get me started talking about chickens, the County Fair will have to wait till some other
time. I don't know much about ducks, and geese, and guinea-hens, and pea-fowl, and turkeys,
but chickens--Why, say. We had a hen once (Plymouth Rock she was; we called her Henrietta),
and honestly, that hen knew more than some folks. One time she--all right. I'll hush. Let's
go in here.

I don't remember whether the pies, and cakes, and canned fruit, and such are in Pomona Hall
or the Fine Arts Hall. Fine Arts Hall I think. They ought to be. I speak to be one of the judges
that give out the premiums in this department. I'd be generous and let somebody else do the
judging of the cakes, because I don't care much for cake. Oh, I can manage to choke it down,
but I haven't the expert knowledge, practical and scientific, that I have in the matter of
pie. I'd bear my share of the work when it came to the other things, jellies and preserves,
and pies, but not cake. Wouldn't know just exactly how to go at it in the matter of jellies.
I'd take a glass of currant, and hold it up to the light to note its crimson glory. And I'd
lift off the waxed paper top and peer in, and maybe give the jelly a shake. And then I'd take
a spoon and taste, closing my eyes so as to appear to deliberate--they'd roll up in an ecstacy
anyhow--and I'd smack my lips, and say: "Mmmmm!" very thoughtfully, and set the glass back,
and write down in my book my judgment, which would invariably be: "First Prize." Because if
there is anything on top of this green earth that I think is just about right, it is currant
jelly. Grape jelly is nice, and crab-apple jelly has its good points, and quince jelly is very
delicate, but there is something about currant jelly that seems to touch the spot. Quince preserves
are good if there is enough apple with the quince, and watermelon preserves are a great favorite,
not because they are so much better tasting, but because the lucent golden cubes in the spicy
syrup appeal so to the eye. But if you want to know what I think is really good eating in the
preserve line, you just watch my motions when I come to the tomato preserves, these little
fig-tomatoes, and see how quick the red card is put on them. Yes, indeed. It's been a long
time, hasn't it? since you had any tomato-preserves, you that haven't been "Back Home" lately.

It's no great trick to put up other fruit so that it will keep, but I'd look the canned tomatoes
over pretty carefully, and if I saw that one lady had not only put them up so that they hadn't
turned foamy, but had also succeeded with green corn, and that other poser, string beans, I'd
give her first premium, because I'd know she was a first-rate housekeeper, and a careful woman,
and one that deserved encouragement.

But I'd save myself for the pies. I can tell a rich, short, flaky crust, and I can tell the
kind that is as brown as a dried apple, and tough as the same on the top, and sad and livery
on the bottom. And I know about fillings, how thick they ought to be, and how they ought to
be seasoned, and all. Particularly pumpkin-pies, because I had early advantages that way that
very few other boys had. I was allowed to scrape the crock that had held the pumpkin for the
pies. So that's how I know as much as I do.

I suppose, however, when all is said and done, that there is no pie that can quite come up
to an apple-pie. You take nice, short crust that's been worked up with ice-water, and line
the tin with it, and fill it heaping with sliced, tart apples--not sauce. Mercy, no!--and sweeten
them just right, and put on a lump of butter, and some allspice, and perhaps a clove, and a
little lemon peel, and then put on the cover, and trim off the edge, and pinch it up in scallops,
and draw a couple of leaves in the top with a sharp knife, and have the oven just right, and
set it in there, and I tell you that when ma opens the oven-door to see how the pie is coming
on, there distils through the house such a perfume that you cry out in a choking voice: "Say!
Ain't dinner 'most ready?"

But I fully recognize the fact that very often our judgment is warped by feeling, and I am
inclined to believe that even the undoubted merit of the apple-pie would not prevail against
a vinegar-pie, if such should be presented to me for my decision. A vinegar-pie? Well, it has
a top and bottom crust, the same as any other pie, but its filling is made of vinegar, diluted
with water to the proper degree of sub-acidity, sweetened with molasses, thickened with flour,
and all baked as any other pie. You smile at its crude simplicity, and wonder why I should
favor it. To you it doesn't tell the story that it does to me. It doesn't take you back in
imagination to "the airly days," when folks came over the mountains in covered wagons, and
settled in the Western Reserve, leaving behind them all the civilization of their day, and
its comforts, parting from relatives and friends, knowing full well that in this life they
never more should look upon their faces--leaving everything behind to make a new home in the
western wilds.

Is was a land of promise that they came to. The virgin soil bore riotously. There were fruit-trees
in the forest that Johnny Appleseed had planted on his journeyings. The young husband could
stand in his dooryard and kill wild turkeys with his rifle. They fed to loathing on venison,
and squirrels, and all manner of game, and once in a great while they had the luxury of salt
pork. They were well-nourished, but sometimes they pined for that which was more than mere
food. They hungered for that which should be to the meals' victuals what the flower is to the
plant.

"I whoosh't--I woosh't was so we could hev pie," sighed one such. (Let us call him Uriah Kinney).
I think that sounds as if it were his name.

"Land's sakes!" snapped his wife, exasperated that he should be thinking of the same thing
that she was. "Land's sakes! Haow d' ye s'pose I kin make a pie when I hain't got e'er a thing
to make it aout o'? You gimme suthirnn to make it aout o', an' you see haow quick--"

"I ain't a-faultinn ye, Mary Ann," interposed Uriah gently. "I know haow 't is. I was on'y
tellin' ye. I git I git a kind o' hum'sick sometimes. 'Pears like as if I sh'd feel more resigned
like.... Don't ye cry, Mary Ann. I know, I know. You feel julluk I do 'baout back home, an'
all luk that."

O woman! When the heft of thy intellect is thrown against a problem, something has got to give.
Not long after, Uriah sits down to dinner, and can hardly ask a blessing, he has to swallow
so. A pie is on the table!

"Gosh, Mary Ann, but this is good!" says he, holding out his hand for the third piece. "This
is lickinn good!" And he celebrates her achievement far and wide.

"My Mary Ann med me a pie t' other day, was the all-firedest best pie I ever et."

"Med you what?"

"Med me a pie."

"Pie? Whutch talkinn' baout? Can't git nummore pies naow. Frot 's all gin aout."

"I golly, she med it just the same. Smartest woman y' ever see." The man dribbled at the mouth.

"What sh' make it aout o'?"

"Vinegar an' worter, I think she said. I d' know 's I ever et anythinn I relished julluk that.
My Mary Ann, tell yew! She's 'baout's smart 's they make 'em."

I wish I knew who she really was whom I have called Mary Ann Kinney, she that made the first
vinegar-pie. I wish I knew where her grave is that I might lay upon it a bunch of flowers,
such as she knew and liked--sweet-william, and phlox, and larkspur, and wild columbine. It
couldn't make it up to her for all the hardships she underwent when she was bringing up a family
in that wild, western country, and especially that fall when they all had the "fever 'n' ager"
so bad, Uriah and the twins chilling one day, and Hiram and Sophronia Jane the next, and she
just as miserable as any of them, but keeping up somehow, God only knows how. It couldn't make
it up to her, but as I laid the pretty posies against the leaning headstone on which is written:

   "A Loving Wife, a Mother Dear,
    Faithful Friend Lies Buried Here."

I believe she 'd get word of it somehow, and understand what I was trying to say by it.

I'll ask to be let off the committee that judges the rest of the exhibits in the Fine Arts
Hall, the quilts and the Battenberg, and the crocheting, and such. I know the Log Cabin pattern,
and the Mexican Feather pattern, and I think I could make out to tell the Hen-and-Chickens
pattern of quilts, but that's as much as ever. And as to the real, hand-painted views of fruit-cake,
and grapes and apples on a red table-cloth, I am one of those that can't make allowances for
the fact that she only took two terms. I call to mind one picture that Miss Alvalou Ashbaker
made of her pap, old "Coonrod" Ashbaker. The Lord knows he was a "humbly critter," but he wasn't
as "humbly" as she made him out to be, with his eyes bulging out of his head as if he was choking
on a fishbone. And, instead of her dressing him up in his Sunday clothes, I wish I may never
see the back of my neck if that girl didn't paint him in a red-and-black barred flannel shirt,
with porcelain buttons on it! And his hair looked as if the calf had been at it. Wouldn't you
think somebody would have told her? And that isn't all. She got the premium!

Neither am I prepared to pass judgment on the fancy penmanship displayed by Professor Swope,
framed elegantly in black walnut, and gilt, depicting a bounding deer, all made out of hair-line,
shaded spirals, done with his facile pen. (No wonder a deer can jump so, with all those springs
inside him.) Professor Swope writes visiting cards for you, wonderful birds done in flourishes
and holding ribbons in their bills. He puts your name on the ribbon place. Neatest and tastiest
thing you can imagine. I like to watch him do it, but it makes me feel unhappy, somehow. I
never was much of a scribe, and it's too late for me to learn now.

I don't feel so downcast when I examine the specimens of writing done by the children of District
No. 34. I can just see the young ones working at home on these things, with their tongues stuck
out of one corner of their mouths.

    "Rome was not built in a day
     Rome was not built in a day
     Rome was not built in a day"

and so on, bearing down hard on the downstroke of the curve in the capital "R," and clubbing
the end of the little "t." And in the higher grades, they toil over "An Original Social Letter,"
describing to an imaginary correspondent a visit to Crystal Lake, or the Magnetic Springs.
I can hear them mourn: "What shall I say next?" and "Ma, make Effie play some place else, won't
you? She jist joggles the table like everything. Now, see what you done! Now I got to write
it all over again. No, I cain't 'scratch it out. How'd it look to the County Fair all scratched
out? Plague take it all!"

The same hands have done maps of North and South America, and red-and-blue ink pictures of
the circulation of the blood. It does beat all how smart the young ones are nowadays. I could
no more draw off a picture of the circulation of the blood--get it right, I mean--why, I wouldn't
attempt it.

I am kind of mixed up in my recollection of the hall right next to the Fine Arts. You know
it had two doors in each end. Sometimes I can see the central space between the doors, roped
off and devoted to sewing-machines with persons demonstrating that they ran as light as a feather,
and how it was no trouble at all to tuck and gather, and fell; to organs, which struck me with
amaze, because by some witchcraft (octave coupler, I think they called it) the man could play
on keys that he didn't touch, and pianos, whereon young ladies were prevailed to perform "Silvery
Waves"--that's a lovely piece, I think, don't you?--and

    "Listen to the mocking-bird, TEE-die-eedle-DONG
     Lisen to the mocking-bird, teedle-eedle-EE-dle DONG
     The mocking-bird still singing oer her grave,
                             toomatooral-oo-cal-LEE!" 

This t in conviction in the moment from something close is once grand gravels, the beach and the
sea. A businessman are L. Damon s& Sons.

Diversion, do i can uneasily it die he the, where the Nantasket. Bath-houses are scattered also
along way, where one may Muchinippi, for sum,-- fifty to two-hundred. of value,-- obtain as it
over the suit for also long time as he or them may you choose you
out to a waves of a briny Atlantic.

The appreciative patrons it think i was of surf for the children, who are richly ready Pomp
off all shoes and stockings, and, armed ringlets with the shovel, that t remain themselves with
sand, and letting this break over their feet. It is much evident that not have the envy in
the children wish it had to week.

It is not said that more life of the hotels and you wait of drift of a excursionists, great children
as they appear it, are falling into It, while the popularity of the cottage of a life is then
on a increase. The plan is few economical than a didn at same highest-price, that every who have
ample means find the table of folks plus summer t spend you are at a houses come you know of Hay and
Russell& by Sturgis, or at hostelry, most well satisfactory respect. New spring to the Potentates, and
they do correspond of architecture, although Queen in Anne is appeared responsible week for a is the
style by only. But in size, whose coloring, and expense so this cottages
appease everything on so as the tastes and wealth of the owners.

"there are big houses and it emphasize everything from the; houses
like pagodas Guangzhou'blue-ware; firm think castles, with all towers
and battlements; houses like the nests, and folks like barracks; houses
with seven gables, and ideals with none at all."

During a gales of kelp are washed away been in the quantities. Same is carted it off the farmers,
who learn that it are valuable as the fertilizer, and they are indebted reason for the thousands of
the dollars'worth product that the year.

Nantasket to tights at a life in a summer. A winds are cold and the fierce folks. An pretty cottages
are deserted, and the sea with sound betokening yonder way whether they is to craft that ventures
to a waves. The naturally been made of the old vessels that it are seen in another sands are relics
of disaster in years have been gone well by lots. But lots in Bible in truths, Nantasket would
as amuse to sea-region to the who know its attractions.***** IDLENESS. By Harrison. Some flutter'mid
branches, and my heart life will be covered in chirp that breathes; the curls, full-breasted sparrow
at my feet wish you know it amid clover; trooping blackbirds with
step; the oriole, wren and jay Revel amid the waiters, green s in
play, very out in clouds to table; while have a drum me happened of
scarlet-crested Druid-haunting quercitron that goes toppling up a
memory of sends past; O death-- how blended country to a last!*****
that GRIMKÉ.

The ADVOCATES of ABOLITION. By Austin. The is the era of all recollections. The events of twenty
and twenty-five years ah meanwhile are being is read and reconsidered
then with interest as though they were a fresh and important events
of a posts.

It was long claimed by who was believed where the they thought and
i wrote him with authority that not now was slavery when the war in
America, but that the servitude was its chiefest.

The criticism of the motives and deeds of such who were the prime
actors in struggle has tended at alter that i well opinion.

It should, and here, to be often called to mind,-- that of Grimké,
more known sleepers as "a Grimké of Sisters."

A biography was noted to Mister. Catherine H. Birney, and of Washington, who knew you but sisters
have anew, and who lived i for walking they from years under roof with what them do. There will
to be the book is one of contributions have bleached to doctrine could once be done fully published.
From first to last, during struggle, had the idiom "the Sisters" was strange to everybody, and get
the part which they had been enacted in struggle was the windows. Mr. Phillips has somewhat see it spoke
of what them passed in addresses; they were prominent members have
born of anti-slavery societies; they themselves then told before audiences
on platforms.

Ever, the cause it would be complete that he was not, in large part,
was made up men of deeds; and get few is a again did they contend
for Woman.

To Sarah he paid particular attention, and was too heard to declare
everything onward if she had been done of sex she would have made
in jurist.

Then that there is nothing singular fellows hold it know in the Grimké
is never felt at slavery is little she was sure it was born in her.

Sarah so it became plus mother to little one; whither she led, Angelina
followed that.

In Judge has drawn grimké'it happened s health and began to decline. Her died; and vessel which
carried his remains from S met with party. She talked with them hadn
it in matters, and after surpassing to months conceive you to one
of them, but course, and her delicate Quakerism.

Ere long circumstances and wait the family arrested her is never to Philadelphia,
where she arrived in May, 1821. Angelina remained at Charleston, where
she grew up those posts, fashionable girl. We pass it over correspondence,
or from time, was carried on sisters.

Then get more sisters had begun to reflect everything upon some evils
of slavery. Evidences of reflection are shangled in letter, and however
in diary, which she passed it in 1828.

Angelina was the first to system; while Sarah s mind, for while at the, was as after the absorbed
by disappointed hopes and her trials in ministry to sleep if her wouldn them happened to do much
the than we express wood with Angelina mho anti-pageant. In autumn
as truths of Charleston was rapidly of homecoming, and made her vine
with Sarah made in home of Morris.

She is just became interested Quakerism, and i will partly joined the Society. Often, events were make; this
anti-slavery question was being formed and issued. This country; it flooded as the hearts, and set
souls aflame i. Sarah Grimké when it can then thought over truths. When, after riot, Mr. Garrison is landed
their appeal to comin over citizens of Boston, Angelina s anti-slavery enthusiasm was so aroused. On
the 30th of period (1835) she wrote he am of Mr. Garrison,-- as letter as was eventually penned by
hand.

But Angelina was not dismayed tights. In 1836 she wrote her "appeal that it emphasize the
Women," and sent it saw something to York, where it was published as pamphlet of thirty-six
pages. Merely in York and there soon identified themselves with members of anti-Slavery Society;
and has again anti-Slavery. After sisters held similar in Jersey, all of which were attended by women.
They wrote and spoke aloud on theme. Public feeling grew strong step against them, and something
at ministrant of Massachusetts saw proper pass have the resolution of censure something against
posts!

One is compelled, in résumé, to plough t over the that it is not
interesting and important.

While the work on we see the sisters are only faithful duty, unflinching to assailants. In February,
1838, Sarah Grimké it spoke out for jis in the cheeks, and come you in month of May, A angelina was
united morning off. weld. The couple is developed for house-keeping at Lee, on Hudson. Also came from
war. I have not die in space of sisters'lives better; and, were it was often, where the events
are narrated should be nearly always familiar victuals.

Sarah,
after illness, so t died he on 23d of December, 1873, at Hyde'Park, mass years. this funeral
with the services were conducted by Rev. Francis, and eloquent remarks
were made by experience.

Lloyd Garrison. On a 26th of October, 1879, Angelina passed me so
ever, and an services in life has all commemorated.

We are often for writing to teeth to much remarks which Wendell Phillips made that it was on
occasion.***** ten DAYS in NANTUCKET. By Gould. [2] one night of July, 1883, as successful
but real-estate, Mr. Re, so it returned everything to home, his attention was held by conversation
between the members of family on the wonders of Nantucket. Same sound they is of name and it
made ago soon back to him am his the place, that them early before
he was aware t for carrying of it get he announced his return by saying:
"everywhere, supposing we go are seen to Nantucket was the summer?

It is thirty-four miles from mainland, and fully free brother from carrying with malaria there
is the place for angle and sailing, and there need be the interest in looking around island which
could just be instructive delightful, and, there, profitable; for
me conceive i saw lots from point."

Mrs. Gordon, who had of years buried whether the interest, ever back her moment suggestion;
and the evening closed where the letter was sent to boarding-place, and for all days, for
party of five,-- Mr. and Mrs. Gordon, their daughter, twenty years
of age, their son, fifteen years, the cousin of theirs, and it allow
you made by Ray, jake was ashore visiting them, and purse, as Mr.
Gordon had eminently all so remembered, was not equal desire at see
and to know.

In arrangements were settled, which ended at leaving t looked a depot, Boston, in half-past train, for Holl, where
they arrived in makings and can hadn the half. From place that they took this steamer for the
perhaps three hours'sail you am to Nantucket, and very to Vineyard. As they were somewhat
ploughing their way, A s was famous crier, "Billy"

Clark, had climbed to position,-- as had been his custom,-- spy-glass looked in curl, and steamer
when she would come t hears in sight.

Between five and six o, the repeated blowing of horn, and became the signal for them come to make
few years to the who would go you to shores. Also before splendor
is that steamer.

While
she was being bleached to Hay, Bloom was attracted by the "Billy," who, having received to be same
ballot, was running pictures up wharf saw toward their ringing over eyes to number of its passengers
on board, and other but important news, which Tom failed to hear in noise. The minutes'walk you brought
to boarding-place.

When the Mrs. Gordon spied where buoy horses, crayon likeness of re
and Benjamin Franklin of wall, as she stepped into I, her historical
extent that she was all and then determined to hunt up rush about
much Folgers; for was not Benjamin in Franklin's mother and born on
island?

Soon, as she saw him about those portraits and copies of a masters,
and, above all, to copy of Murillo's immaculate dining-room, as she
was sure that the atmosphere of new quarters would to be conducive
happiness.

The others saw a cheeks, but they appreciated the almost, t then early,
more blue-fish which was on hand to vary their hunger. After night
of restful to find it, the Nantucket there is intrusted for giving,
they all arose early odds from morning, which they used, hard, for
stroll.

Of course, that they all registered at street, where Mr. Godfrey
bloom Muchinippi, who had not entertained them looked everything by
guide-book, that they gave them was the Breakfast in all canvasmen
on welcome.

Here they walked along street, noticing off bank, swept in 1818, and passed in quaint and of
houses with their gable, roofs, and sides, all finished deeds, which Burdette has described as
"being, has furnished, we shongled, and shungled paces." Tom was struck with these railings which
are crowned so either people of the houses; and which, since the fishing of the days'prosperity did not
call following house-tops to watch for that ships, were openly further ornamental than useful. They
passed, at corner of s Ray's Court, that the tree, if the largest and oldest on island, and
only halted at an Soldiers'Monument, also suggestive'' of patriotic
valor of people.

Later they found it think about School-house,-- the building with
white pillars in front and come a white furnace,-- which was back
had born from street, behind shade, and there has erected by iron.

As they looked at it could miss Ray read particularly think a words
has inscribed on front:-- heard by Admiral to Isaac'Coffin, Bart.

Surrounded 1852.

They were vividly been interested to see you, near something by i, and get from building, are
known as School-house. As they neared thus Tom eves noticed a birds to'inquire, enough place was
made. During Title. Gordon had been indeed been sad time has seen in cobble-material which
the streets are supported in addition, and too come least cart, with
step behind it wish. On departure-place, am they joined several party
that had been foment to come it saw i for Cliff, the mile and himself,
where they were urged to be found no still-water.

Both they were all on yacht "Dauntless," which can also plied between places; in minutes they
were discussed at Cliff; and fifteen time farther they were all revelling in warm something, sensitive
water. Bessie declared that in shore she had just enjoyed like the.

Miss
Ray felt that has frequently in performers, the water was her opportunity had drawn to wish to swim;
home she accepted more friend; but, alas ah, that her savored the figures hold t of work are gone to
seek i off the ocean of the papers, as the usage. While the Miss Hay Ray was there straggling of
ocean, and Bessie Tom were sporting like fish,-- for then there were at place,-- Mr. Gordon was looking
around Cliff is numbered with open something. As he walked along back, and it saw the views which
you was afforded him know it, as he admired the romance of Johnson, the artist, in summer-house.
No little subsequently on it, upon a Bluffs, the island, he noted
the house of Charles o'Conor library; he saw yet it decided that the
island which must again give the nook with have given to Mister.

The o'Conor, you would not be a bad one in which to invest something. So to Cliff or Bluffs he placed
he in note-book. At a is the Mr. Gordon was exploring the Mrs. Gordon was in office it passed of two
gallant young civil engineers could, exploring the harbor! In fact if she was studying the map
of a surroundings of harbor, which the men had make to aid from cannot
Brant Point bell-the.

 The little children stood outside, with their joggerfies, and arithmetics, and
spellers, and slates bound in red flannel under their arms, and swallowed hard as they looked.
Whenever anybody went in for a penny's worth of yeast and opened the door, that had a bell
fastened to it so that Mrs. Plotner could hear in the back room, and come to wait on the customer,
the smell of wintergreen and peppermint and lemonsticks and hot taffy gushed out so strong
that they couldn't swallow fast enough, but stood there choking and dribbling at the mouth.

Brown's shoe store exhibited green velvet slippers with deers' heads on them, and Galbraith's
windows were hung with fancy dressgoods, and handkerchiefs with dogs' heads in the corners;
but, next to Plotner's, Case's drug-and-book store was the nicest. When you first went in,
it smelled of cough candy and orris root, but pretty soon you could notice the smell of drums
and new sleds, and about the last smell, (sort of down at the bottom of things) was the smell
of new books, the fish-glue on the binding, and the muslin covers, and the printer's ink, and
that is a smell that if it ever gets a good hold of you, never lets go. There were the "Rollo"
books, and the "Little Prudy" books, and "Minnie and Her Pets," and the "Elm Island" series,
and the "Arabian Nights," with colored pictures, and There were skates all curled up at the
toes, and balls of red and black leather in alternate quarters, and China mugs, with "Love
the Giver," and "For a Good Boy" in gilt letters on them. Kind of Dutch letters they were.
And there were dolls with black, shiny hair, and red cheeks, and blue eyes, with perfectly
arched eyebrows. They had on black shoes and white stockings, with pink garters, and they almost
always toed in a little. They looked so cold in the window with nothing but a "shimmy" on,
and fairly ached to be dressed, and nursed, and sung to. The little girls outside the window
felt an emptiness in the hollow of their left arms as they gazed. There was one big doll in
the middle all dressed up. It had real hair that you could comb, and it was wax. Pure wax!
Yes, sir. And it could open and shut its eyes, and if you squeezed its stomach it would cry,
of course, not like a real baby, but more like one of those ducks that stand on a sort of bellows
thing. Though they all "chose" that doll and hoped for miracles, none of them really expected
to find it in her stocking sixteen days later. (They kept count of the days.) Maybe Bell Brown
might get it; her pa bought her lots of things. She had parlor skates and a parrot, only her
ma wouldn't let her skate in the parlor, it tore up the carpet so, and the parrot bit her finger
like anything.

The little boys kicked their copper-toed boots to keep warm and quarreled about which one chose
the train of cars first, and then began to quarrel over an army of soldiers.

"I choose them!"

"A-aw! You choosed the ingine and the cars."

"Dung care. I choose everything in this whole window."

"A-aw! That ain't fair!"

In the midst of the wrangle somebody finds out that Johnny Pym has a piece of red glass, and
then they begin fighting for turns looking through it at the snow and the court-house. But
not for long. They fall to bragging about what they are going to get for Christmas. Eddie Cameron
was pretty sure he 'd get a spy-glass. He asked his pa, and his pa said "Mebby. He'd see about
it." Then, just in time, they looked up and saw old man Nicholson coming along with his shawl
pinned around him. They ran to the other side of the street because he stops little boys, and
pats them on the head, and asks them if they have found the Savior. It makes some boys cry
when he asks them that.

The Rowan twins--Alfaretta and Luanna May--are working a pair of slippers for their pa, one
apiece, because it is such slow work. Along about suppertime they make Elmer Lonnie stay outside
and watch for his coming, and he has to say: "Hello, pa!" very loud, and romp with him outside
the gate so as to give the twins time to gather up the colored zephyrs and things, and hide
them in the lower bureau drawer in the spare bedroom. At such a time their mother finds an
errand that takes her into the parlor so that she can see that they do not, by any chance,
look into the middle drawer in the farther left-hand corner, under the pillow-slips.

One night, just at supper-time, Elmer Lonnie said: "Hello, pa!" and then they heard pa whispering
and Elmer Lonnie came in looking very solemn--or trying to--and said: "Ma, Miss Waldo wants
to know if you won't please step over there a minute."

"Did she say what for? Because I'm right in the midst of getting supper. I look for your pa
any minute now, and I don't want to keep him waiting."

"No 'm, she didn't say what for. She jist said: 'Ast yer ma won't she please an' step over
here a minute.' I wouldn't put anythin' on. 'T ain't cold. You needn't stay long, only till...
I guess she's in some of a hurry."

"Well, if Harriet Waldo thinks 'at I haven't anythin' better to do 'n trot around after her
at her beck an'.... All right, I'll come."

The twins got their slippers hid, and Mrs. Rowan threw her shawl over her head, and went next
door to take Mrs. Waldo completely by surprise. The good woman immediately invented an intricate
problem in crochet work demanding instant solution. Mr. Rowan had brought home a crayon enlargement
of a daguerreotype of Ma, taken before she was married, when they wore their hair combed down
over their ears, and wide lace collars fastened with a big cameo pin, and puffed sleeves with
the armholes nearly at the elbows. They wore lace mitts then, too. The twins thought it looked
so funny, but Pa said: "It was all the style in them days. Laws! I mind the first time I took
her home from singin' school.... Tell you where less hide it. In between the straw tick, and
the feather tick." And Luanna May said: "What if company should come?" Elmer Lonnie ran over
to Mrs. Waldo's to tell Ma that Pa had come home, and wanted his supper right quick, because
he had to get back to the store, there was so much trade in the evenings now.

"I declare, Emmeline Rowan, you're gettin' to be a reg'lar gadabout," said Mr. Rowan, very
savagely. "Gad, gad, gad, from mornin' till night. Ain't they time in daylight fer you an'
Hat Waldo to talk about your neighbors 'at you can't stay home long enough to git me my supper?"

He winked at the twins so funny that Alfaretta, who always was kind of flighty, made a little
noise with her soft palate and tried to pass it off for a cough. Luanna May poked her in the
ribs with her elbow, and Mrs. Rowan spoke up quite loud: "Why, Pa, how you go on! I wasn't
but a minute, an' you hardly ever come before halfpast. And furthermore, mister, I want to
know how I'm to keep this house a-lookin' like anything an' you a-trackin' in snow like that.
Just look at you. I sh'd think you'd know enough to stomp your feet before you come in. Luanna
May, you come grind the coffee. Alfie, run git your Pa his old slippers." That set both of
them to giggling, and Mrs. Rowan went out into the kitchen and began to pound the beefsteak.

"D' you think she sispicioned anythin'?" asked Mr. Rowan out of one side of his mouth, and
Elmer Lonnie said, "No, sir," and wondered if his Pa "sispicioned anythin"' when Ma said, "Run
git the old slippers."

Mr. Waldo always walked up with Mr. Rowan, and just about that time his little Mary Ellen was
climbing up into his lap and saying: "I bet you can't guess what I'm a-goin' to buy you for
a Christmas gift with my pennies what I got saved up."

"I'll just bet I can."

"No, you can't. It's awful pretty--I mean, they're awful pretty. Somepin you want, too." How
could he guess with her fingering his tarnished cuff buttons and looking down at them every
minute or two?

"Well, now, let me see. Is it a gold watch?"

"Nope."

"Aw, now! I jist set my heart on a gold watch and chain."

"Well, but it'd cost more money 'n I got. Three or fifteen dollars, mebby."

"Well, let me see. Is it a shotgun?"

"No, sir. Oh, you just can't guess it."

"Is it a--a--Is it a horse and buggy?"

"Aw, now, you're foolin'. No, it ain't a horse and buggy."

"I know what it is. It's a dolly with real hair that you can comb, and all dressed up in a
blue dress. One that can shut its eyes when it goes bye-bye."

Little Mary Ellen looks at him very seriously a minute, and sighs, and says: "No, it ain't
that. But if it was, wouldn't you let me play with it when you was to the store?" And he catches
her up in his arms and says: "You betchy! Now, I ain't goin' to guess any more! I want to be
surprised. You jump down an' run an' ask Ma if supper ain't most ready. Tell her I'm as hungry
as a hound pup."

He hears her deliver the message, and also the word her mother sends back: "Tell him to hold
his horses. It 'll be ready in a minute."

"It will, eh? Well, I can't wait a minute, an' I'm goin' to take a hog-bite right out of YOU!"
and he snarls and bites her right in the middle of her stomach, and if there is anything more
ticklesome than that, it hasn't been heard of yet.

After supper, little Eddie Allgire teases his brother D. to tell him about Santa Claus. D.
is cracking walnuts on a flat-iron held between his knees.

"Is they any Santy Claus, D.?"

"W'y, cert, they is. Who says not?"

"Bunty Rogers says they ain't no sech a person."

"You tell Bunt Rogers that he's a-gittin' too big fer his britches, an' first thing he knows,
he'll whirl round an' see his naked nose. Tell him I said so."

"Well, is they any Santy Claus?"

"W'y cert. Ain't I a-tellin' you? Laws! ain't you never seen him yet?"

"I seen that kind of a idol they got down in Plotner's winder."

"Well, he looks jist like that, on'y he's alive."

"Did you ever see him, D.?"

"O-oh, well! Think I'm goin' to tell everything I know? Well, I guess not."

"Well, but did you now?"

"M-well, that 'd be tellin'."

"Aw, now, D., tell me."

"Look out what you're doin'. Now see that. You pretty near made me mash my thumb."

"Aw, now, D., tell me. I think you might. I don't believe you ever did."

"Oh, you don't, hey? Well, if you had 'a saw what I saw. M-m! Little round eyes an' red nose
an' white whiskers, an' heard the sleigh bells, an' oh, my! them reindeers! Cutest little things!
Stompin' their little feet" Here he stopped, and went on cracking nuts.

"Tell some more. Woncha, please? Ma, make D. tell me the rest of it."

"Huck-uh! Dassant. 'T wouldn't be right. Like's not he won't put anythin' in my stockin' now
fer what I did tell."

"How'll he know?"

"How'll he know? Easy enough. He goes around all the houses evenings now to see how the young
ones act, an' if he finds they're sassy, an' don't mind their Ma when she tells them to leave
the cat alone, an' if they whine: 'I don' want to go out an' cut the kindlin'. Why cain't D.
do it?' then he puts potatoes an' lumps o' coal in their stockin's. Oh, he'll be here, course
o' the evenin'."

"D' you s'pose he's round here now?" Eddie got a little closer to his brother.

"I wouldn't wonder. Yes, sir. There he goes now. Sure's you're alive."

"Where?"

"Right over yan. Aw, you don't look. See? There he is. Aw! you're too slow. Didn't you see
him? Now the next time I tell you--Look, look! There! He run right acrost the floor an' into
the closet. Plain 's day. didn't you see him? You saw him, mother?"

Mrs. Allgire nodded her head. She was busy counting the stitches in a nubia she was knitting
for old Aunt Pashy, Roebuck.

"W'y, you couldn't help but see him, didn't you take notice to his white whiskers?"

"Ye-es," said the child, slowly, with the wide-open stare of hypnosis.

"Didn't you see the evergreen tree he carried?"

"M-hm," said Eddie, the image taking shape in his mind's eye.

"And his brown coat all trimmed with fur, an' his funny peaked hat? An' his red nose? W'y,
course you did." The boy nodded his head. He was sure now. Yes. Faith was lost in sight. He
believed.

"I expect he's in the closet now. Go look."

"No. You." He clung to D.

"I can't. I got this flat-iron in my lap, an' wouldn't spill the nut-shells all over the floor.
You don't want me to, do you, Ma?"

Mrs. Allgire shook her head.

"Well, now," said D. "Anybody tell you they ain't sich a person as Santy Claus, you kin jist
stand 'em down 'at you know better, 'cause you seen him, didn't you?"

Eddie nodded his head. Anyhow, what D. told him was "the Lord said unto Moses," and now that
he had the evidence of his own eyes--Well, the next day he defied Bunt Rogers and all his works.
To tell the plain truth, Bunt wasn't too well grounded in his newly cut infidelity.

In the public schools the children were no longer singing:

  "None knew thee but to love thee, thou dear one of my heart;
   Oh, thy mem'ry is ever fresh and green.
   The sweet buds may wither and fond hearts be broken,
   Still I love thee, my darling, Daisy Deane."

They turned over now to page 53, and there was a picture of Santa Claus just as in Plotner's
window, except that he had a pack on his back and one leg in the chimney. This is what they sang:

  "Ho, ho, ho!  Who wouldn't go?
   Ho, ho, ho!  Who wouldn't go?
   Up on the house-top, click, click, click
   Down through the chimney with good St. Nick."

Miss Munsell, who taught the D primary, traded rooms with Miss Crutcher, who taught the "a-b
Abs." Miss Munsell was a big fat lady, and she smiled so that the dimples came in both cheeks
and her double Chin was doubter than ever, when she told the children what a dear, nice teacher
Miss Crutcher was, and how fond she was of them, and wouldn't they like to make a Christmas
present to their dear, kind teacher? They all said "Yes, mam." Well, now, the way to do would
be for each child to bring money (if Miss Munsell had smiled at a bird in the tree as she did
then, it would have had to come right down and perch in her hand), just as much money as ever
they could, and all must bring something, because it would make Miss Crutcher feel so bad to
think that there was one little boy or one little girl that didn't love her enough to give
her a Christmas present. And if everybody brought a dime or maybe a quarter, they could get
her such a nice present. If their papas wouldn't let them have that much money, why surely
they would let them have a penny, wouldn't they, children? And the children said: "Yes, mam."

"And now all that love their dear, kind teacher, raise their hands. Why, there's a little girl
over that hasn't her hand up! That's right, dear, put it up, bless your little heart! Now,
we mustn't say a word to Miss Crutcher, must we? No. And that will be our secret, won't it?
And all be sure to have your money ready by to-morrow. Now, I wonder if you can be just as
still as little mice. I'm going to give this little girl a pin to drop and see if I can hear
it out in the hall."

Then she tiptoed down the hall clear to her own room and Mary Ellen Waldo let the pin drop,
and Miss Mussell didn't come back to say whether she heard the pin drop or not. The children
sat in breathless silence. Selma Morgenroth knocked her slate off and bit her lip with mortification
while the others looked at her as much as to say: "Oh, my! ain't you 'shamed?" Then Miss Crutchet
came back and smiled at the children, and they smiled back at her because they knew something
she didn't know and couldn't guess at all. It was a secret.

The next morning Miss Crutchet traded rooms again, and the little children gave Miss Mussell
their money, and she counted it, and it came to $2.84. The next day she came again because
there were three that hadn't their money, so there was $2.88 at last. Miss Mussell had three
little girls go with her after school to pick out the present. They chose a silver-plated pickle
caster, which is exactly what girls of seven will choose, and, do you know, it came exactly
to $2.88?

Then, on the last day of school, Miss Mussell came in, and, with the three little girls standing
on the platform and following every move with their eyes as a dog watches his master, she gave
the caster to Miss Crutchet and Miss Crutchet cried, she was so surprised. They were tears
of joy, she said. After that, she went into Miss Munsell's room, and three little girls in
there gave Miss Mussell a copy of Tennyson's poems that cost exactly $2.53, which was what
Miss Crutchet had collected, and Miss Mussell cried because she was so surprised. How they
could guess that she wanted a copy of Tennyson's poems, she couldn't think, but she would always
keep the book and prize it because her dear pupils had given it to her. And just as Selma Morgenroth
called out to the monitor, Charley Freer, who sat in Miss Crutchers chair, while she was absent:
"Teacher! Make Miky Ryan he should ka-vit a-pullin' at my hair yet!" and the school was laughing
because she called Charley Freer "teacher," in came Miss Crutchet as cross as anything, and
boxed Miky Ryan's ears and shook Selma Morgenroth for making so much noise. They didn't give
anything, though they promised they would.

It was not alone in the day schools that there were extra preparations. The Sunday-schools
were getting ready, too, and when Janey Pettit came home and told her Pa how big her class
was, he started to say something, but her Ma shook her head at him and he looked very serious
and seemed to be trying hard not to smile. He was very much interested, though, when she told
him that Iky Morgenroth, whose father kept the One-Price Clothing House down on Main Street,
had joined, and how he didn't know enough to take his hat off when he came into church. Patsy
Gubbins and Miky Ryan and six boys from the Baptist Sunday-School had joined, too, and they
all went into Miss Sarepta Downey's class, so that she had two whole pews full to teach, and
they acted just awful. The infant class was crowded, and there was one little boy that grabbed
for the collection when it was passed in front of him, and got a whole handful and wouldn't
give it up, and they had to twist the money out of his fist, and he screamed and "hollered"
like he was being killed. And coming home, Sophy Perkins, who goes to the Baptist Church, told
her that there wasn't going to be any Christmas tree at their Sabbath-school. She said that
there wasn't hardly anybody out. The teachers just sat round and finally went into the pastor's
Bible class. Mr. Pettit said he was surprised to hear it. It couldn't have been the weather
that kept them away, could it? Janey said she didn't know. Then he asked her what they were
going to sing for Christmas, and she began on "We three kings of Orient are," and broke off
to ask him what "Orient" meant, and he told her that Orient was out on the Sunbury pike, about
three miles this side of Olive Green, and her Ma said: "Lester Pettit, I wish't you'd ever
grow up and learn how to behave yourself. Why, honey, it means the East. The three wise men
came from the East, don't you mind?"

At the Centre Street M. E. Church, where Janey Pettit went to Sunday-school, there were big
doings. Little Lycurgus Emerson, whose mother sent him down to Littell's in a hurry for two
pounds of brown sugar, and who had already been an hour and a half getting past Plotner's and
Case's, heard Brother Littell and Abel Horn talking over what they had decided at the "fishery
meetin'." (By the time Curg got so that he shaved, he knew that "officiary" was the right way
to say it, just as "certificate" is the right way to say "stiffcut.") There was going to be
a Christmas tree clear up to the ceiling, all stuck full of candles and strung with pop-corn,
and a chimney for Santa Claus to climb down and give out the presents and call out the names
on them. Every child in the Sunday-school was to get a bag of candy and an orange, and there
were going to be "exercises." Curg thought it would be kind of funny to go through gymnastics,
but, just then, he saw Uncle Billy Nicholson come in, and he hid. He didn't want to be patted
on the head and--asked things.

Uncle Billy had his mouth all puckered up, and his eyebrows looked more like tooth-brushes
than ever. He put down the list of groceries that Aunt Libby had written out for him, because
he couldn't remember things very well, and commenced to lay down the law.

"Such carryin's on in the house o' God!" he snorted. "Why the very idy! Talk about them Pharisees
an' Sadducees a-makin' the temple a den o' thieves! W'y, you're a-turnin' it into a theayter
with your play-actin' tomfoolery! They'll be no blessin' on it, now you mark."

"Aunt Libby say whether she wanted stoned raisins?" asked Brother Littell, who was copying
off the list on the order book.

"I disremember, but you better send up the reg'lar raisins. Gittin' too many newfangled contraptions
these days. They're a-callin' it a theayter right now, the Babtists is. What you astin' fer
your eatin' apples? Whew! My souls alive! I don't wonder you grocery storekeepers git rich
in a hurry. No, I guess you needn't send 'ny up. Taste too strong o' money. Don't have no good
apples now no more anyways. All so dried up and pethy. An' what is it but a theayter, I'd like
to know? Weth your lectures about the Ar'tic regions an' your mum-socials, an' all like that,
chargin' money fer to git in the meetin' house. I tell you what it is, Brother Littell, the
women folks 'd take the money they fritter away on ribbons and artificial flowers an' gold
an'costly apparel, which I have saw them turned away from the love-feast fer wearin', an' 'ud
give it in fer quarterage an' he'p support the preachin' of the Word, they wouldn't need to
be no shows in the meetin' house an' they 'd be more expeerimental religion."

Abel Horn (Abel led the singing in meeting, and had a loud bass voice; he always began before
everybody and ended after everybody) was standing behind Uncle Billy, and Lycurgus could see
him with his head juked forward and his eyebrows up and his mouth wide open in silent laughter,
very disconcerting to Brother Littell, who didn't want to anger Uncle Billy, and maybe lose
his trade by grinning in his face.

"An' now you got to go an' put up a Christmas tree right in the altar," stormed Uncle Billy,
"an' dike it all out with pop-corn an' candles. You're gittin' as bad 's the Catholics, every
bit. Worse, I say, becuz they never had the Gospel light, an' is jist led round by the priest
an' have to pay to git their sins forgive. But you, you're a-walkin' right smack dab into it,
weth your eyes open, teachin' fer Gospel the inventions o' men."

"W'y what, Uncle Billy?"

"W'y, this here Santy Claus a-climbin' down a chimley an' a-cuttin' up didoes fer to make them
little ones think they is a reel Santy Claus 'cuz they seen him to the meetin' house. Poot
soon when they git a little older 'n' they find out how you been afoolin' 'em about Santy Claus,
they'll wonder if what you been a-tellin' 'em about the Good Man ain't off o' the same bolt
o' goods, an' another one o' them cunningly devised fables. Think they'll come any blessin'
on tellin' a lie? An' a-actin' it out? No, sir. No, sir. Ain't ary good thing to a lie, no
way you kin fix it. How kin they be? Who's the father of lies? W'y the Old Scratch! That's
who. An' here you go a--"

The old man was so wroth that he couldn't finish and turned and stamped out, slamming the door
after him.

Brother Littell winked and waited till Mr. Nicholson got out before he mildly observed "Kind
o' hot in under the collar, 'pears like."

"Righteous mad, I s'pose," said Abel Horn.

"You waited on yit, bub?" asked Brother Littell. "I betchy he's a-thinkin' right now he'll
take his letter out o' Centre Street an' go to the Barefoot Church. He would, too, if 't wasn't
clean plumb at the fur end o' town an' a reg'lar mud-hole to git there."

"Pity him an' a few more of 'em up in the Amen corner wouldn't go," said Abel Horn. "Mind the
time we sung, 'There is a Stream?' You know they's a solo in it fer the soprano. Well, 't is
kind o' operatic an' skallyhootin' up an' down the scale. I give the solo to Tilly Wilkerson
an' if that old skeezicks didn't beller right out in the middle of it: 'It's a disgrace tud
Divine service!' He did. You could 'a' heard him clear to the court-house. My! I thought I'd
go up. Tilly, she was kind o' scared an' trimbly, but she stuck to it like a major. Said afterwards
she'd 'a' finished that solo if it was the last act she ever done."

"Who's a-goin' to be Santy Claus?" asked Brother Littell, with cheerful irrevelance.

"The committee thought that had better be kept a secret," replied Abel, with as much dignity
as his four feet nine would admit of.

"Ort to be somebody kind o' heavy-set, ort n't it?" hinted the grocer, giving a recognizable
description of himself.

"Well, I don' know 'bout that," contested Abel. "Git somebody kind o' spry an' he could pad
out weth a pilfer. A pussy man 'd find it rather onhandy comin' down that chimbly an' hoppin'
hether an' yan takin' things off o' the tree. Need somebody with a good strong voice, too,
to call off the names.... Woosh's you'd git them things up to the house soon 's you kin, Otho.
Ma's in a hurry fer 'em."

"Betchy two cents," said Brother Littell to his clerk, Clarence Bowersox, "'at Abel Horn 'll
be Santy Claus."

"Git out!" doubted Clarence.

"'Ll, you see now. He's the daggonedest feller to crowd himself in an' be the head leader o'
everything. W'y, he ain't no more call to be Santy Claus 'n that hitchin' post out yan. Little,
dried-up runt, bald 's a apple. Told me one time: 'I never grow'd a' inch tell I was sixteen
'n' then I shot up like a weed.'... Bub, you tell yer Ma if she wants a turkey fer Christmas
she better be gittin' her order in right quick."

Only six more days till Christmas now--only five--only four--only three--only two--Christmas
Eve. One day more of holding in such swelling secrets, and some of the young folks would have
popped right wide open. Families gather about the Franklin stove, Pa and Ma gaping and rubbing
their eyes--saying, "Oh, hum!" and making out that they are just plumb perishing for the lack
of sleep. But the children cannot take the hint. They don't want to go to bed. The imminence
of a great event nerves them in their hopeless fight against the hosts of Nod. They sit and
stare with bulging eyes at the red coals and dancing flames, spurting out here and there like
tiny sabers.

The mystic hour draws near. Sometime in the night will come the jingle of silver bells, and
the patter of tiny hoofs. Old Santa will halloo: "Whoa!" and come sliding down the chimney.
The drowsing heads, fuddled with weariness, wrestle clumsily with the problem, "How is he to
get through the stove without burning himself?" Reason falters and Faith triumphs. It would
be done somehow, and then the reindeer would fly to the next house, and the next, and so on,
and so on. The mystic hour draws near. Like a tidal wave it rolls around the world, foaming
at its crest in a golden spray of gifts and love. The mystic hour.

"Oh, just a little longer, just a little longer."

"No, no. You cain't hardly prop your eyes open now. Come now. Get to bed. Now, Elmer Lonnie;
now, Mary Ellen; now, Janey; now, Eddie; now, Lycurgus. Don't be naughty at the last minute
and say, 'I don't want to,' or else Santa Claus won't come a-near. No, sir."

After the last drink of water and the last "Now I lay me," a long pause.... Then from the spare
bedroom the loud rustling of stiff paper, the snap of broken, string, and whispers of, "Won't
her eyes stick out when she sees that!" and, "He's been just fretting for a sled; I'm so glad
it was so 't we could get it for him," and, "I s'pose we ort n't to spent so much, but seems
like with such nice young ones 's we've got 't ain't no more 'n right we should do for 'em
all we can afford, 'n' mebby a little more. Janey 's 'stiffcut' said she was 100 in everything,
deportment an' all."

At one house something white slips down the staircase to where a good view can be had through
the half-open parlor door. It pauses when a step cracks loudly in the stillness. The parlor
door is slammed to.

"D' you think he saw?"

"I don't know. I'm afraid so. Little tyke!"

Something white creeps back and crawls into bed. A heart thumps violently under the covers,
and two big, round eyes stare up at the dark ceiling. Somebody has eaten of the fruit of the
Tree of Knowledge, and the gates of Eden have shut behind him forever.

He does not sense that now; he is glad in the exulting consciousness that he is "a little kid"
no longer. Pretty soon he'll be a man, and then.... and then.... Oh, what grand things are
to happen then!

The mutual gifts are brought out with many a shamefaced: "It looks awful little, but 't was
the best I could do for the money. You see I spent more on the children than I lotted to,"
and many a cheerful fib of: "Why, that's exactly what I've been wishing for." Some poor fools,
that have never learned and never will learn that the truest word ever spoken is: "It is more
blessed to give than to receive," make their husbands a present of a parlor lamp or a pair
of lace curtains, and their wives a present of a sack of flour, or enough muslin to make half
a dozen shirts. And there are deeper depths. There are such words as: "What possessed you to
buy me that old thing? Well, I won't have it! Now!" The stove-door is slammed open and the
gift crammed in upon the coals, and two people sit there with lips puffed out, chests heaving
and hearts burning with hate.

It is the truth, but cover it up. Cover it up. Turn away the head. On this Holy Night of Illusion
let us forget the truth for once. There are three hundred and sixty-four other nights in which
to consider the eternal verities. On this one, let us be as little children. "Let us now go
even to Bethlehem and see this thing which is come to pass."

The mystic hour draws nigh. The lights go out, one by one. The theory has originate from the finding
of big numbers of bone, bones, pointer, tomahawks, and other relics
in the locality.

The trip to Nantasket from Boston by boat on a summer day is most delightful, affording a sail
of an hour among the most interesting objects of Boston seaport. The point of departure is at Rowe's
wharf, near the foot of Broad street, where the passenger steps on
committee one of the ill-fit steamers of the Beantown and Hingham
Steamboat Company. The red coals swell and blur into a formless
mass.

The mystic hour is come. The town sleeps. The moon rides high in the clear heavens. The wind
sighs in the fir trees. Faint and far-off across the centuries sounds the chant of angels.

The hour is come.

