CAT AND MOUSE

                            BY RALPH WILLIAMS

                        Illustrated by van Dongen

     The Warden needed to have a certain very obnoxious pest
     eliminated ... and he knew just the pest-eradicator he needed....

The Harn first came to the Warden's attention through its effect on the game population of
an area in World 7 of the Warden's sector. A natural ecology was being maintained on World
7 as a control for experimental seedings of intelligent life-forms in other similar worlds.
How the Harn got there, the Warden never knew. In its free-moving larval state, the Harn was
a ticklike creature which might have sifted through a natural inter-dimensional rift; or it
might have come through as a hitchhiker on some legitimate traveler, possibly even the Warden
himself.

In any event, it was there now. Free of natural enemies and competition, it had expanded enormously.
So far, the effect in the control world was localized, but this would not be the case when
the Harn seeded. Prompt action was indicated.

The Warden's inclination and training was in the direction of avoiding direct intervention
in the ecology of the worlds under his jurisdiction, even in the field of predator control.
He considered introduction of natural enemies of the Harn from its own world, and decided against
it. That cure was as bad, if not worse, than the disease itself.

There was, however, in one adjacent world, a life-form not normally associated with the Harn;
but which analysis indicated would be inimical to it, and reasonably amenable to control.

It was worth trying, anyway.

       *       *       *       *       *

October 3rd, Ed Brown got up to the base cabin of his trap line with his winter's outfit.

He hung an N. C. Company calendar on the wall and started marking off the days.

October 8th, the hole into the other world opened.

In the meantime, of course, Ed had not been idle. All summer the cabin had stood empty. He
got his bedding, stove, and other cabin gear down from the cache and made the place livable.
The mice were thick, a good fur sign, but a nuisance otherwise. Down in the cellar hole, when
he went to clear it out for the new spud crop, he found burrowings everywhere.

Well, old Tom would take care of that in short order. Tom was a big, black, bobtailed cat eleven
years old who had lived with Ed since he was a kitten. Not having any feline companionship
to distract him, his only interest was hunting mice. Generally he killed a lot more than he
could eat, racking the surplus in neat piles beside the trail, on the doorstep, or on a slab
in the cellar. A very unique talent he developed in the landscape description, the first has in
the modern fairy tale found in sealed their place. In the fairy tale "From the invisible Kingdoms
"is portrayed a river valley, in which appears the moon: waves and forest rustle and tell strange
things. Stretched by words gives us the view of the reader the long valley, he lets the words
resonate the music of the landscape, you see the hearing Nature. The description concludes
with the sentence: "It was a wonderful valley Then take it! Mitterwurzer the word "wonderfully."
He makes the word beautiful musical act, he can it may sound, though he sings. From the darker
"u" the clear "a break" as a tag from the Dusk.


Ed had never seen a hole into another world, of course, nor even heard of such a thing. He
was as surprised as any one would naturally be to find one not fifty feet from their front door.

Still, his experience had been all in the direction of believing what his eyes told him. He
had seen a lot of strange things in his life, and one more didn't strain him too much. He stood
stockstill where he had first noticed the hole and studied it warily.

It was two steps off the trail to the left, right beside the old leaning birch, a rectangular
piece of scenery that did not fit. It looked to be, as nearly as he could judge, about man-size,
six by three. At the bottom it was easy enough to see where this world left off and that one
began. On the left side the two worlds matched pretty well, but on the right side there was
a niggerhead in this world, the moss-covered relic of a centuries old stump, while that world
continued level, so that the niggerhead was neatly sliced in two. 

  (On December 28, 1864)

Enchanting

Friedrich Mitterwurzer

One should
not storytellers do.

Dense fairy himself!

So thought and was told at a time, as in custom and law, myth and
poetry, the natural developments was regarded as the fundamental law
for people and things.

This prevented but people far, new habits introduced to make new laws to shape new beliefs
and to invent new tales. But life is more than teaching.
 The view through the hole narrowed, as if it faced the trail
squarely. He edged around the old birch to get behind it, and from that side there was no hole,
just the same old Alaskan scenery, birch and rose bushes and spruce. From the front, though,
it was still there.

He cut an alder shoot about eight feet long, trimmed it, and poked it through the hole. It
went through easily enough. He prodded at the sod in the other world, digging up small tufts.
When he pulled the stick back, some of the other world dirt was on the sharp end. It looked
and smelled just about like any dirt.

Old Tom came stretching out into the morning sun and stalked over to investigate. After a careful
inspection of the hole he settled down with his paws tucked under him to watch. Ed took a flat
round can from his pocket, lined his lip frugally with snuff, and sat down on the up-ended
bucket to watch too. At the moment, that seemed the likeliest thing to do.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was nearly swarming time, the Harn had many things to preoccupy it, but it spared one unit
to watch the hole into the other world. So far, nothing much had happened. A large biped had
found the opening from the other side. It had been joined by a smaller quadruped; but neither
showed any indication yet of coming through. The sun was shining through the hole, a large
young yellow sun, and the air was crisp, with sharp interesting odors.

The biped ejected a thin squirt of brown liquid through the hole--venom of some sort, apparently.
The Harn hastily drew back out of range.

       *       *       *       *       *

The hole into the other world stayed there, as unobtrusively fixed as if it had been there
since the beginning of time. Nothing came through, and nothing moved in the other world but
leaves stirring now and then with a breeze, clouds drifting across the sky. Ed began to realize
it was getting late in the morning, and he had not yet had breakfast. He left old Tom to watch
the hole, got stiffly to his feet and went on down the trail to get the pail of water he had
started for. From the cabin door, he could still see the hole into the other world. He kept
one eye on it while he cooked breakfast.

As he was finishing his second cup of coffee, he noticed the view into the other world becoming
duller, dimming in a peculiar fashion. This is a whisper and giggle, a slight knock on the walls,
a scurrying and rustling and noise that one might almost believe in ghosts; between sound sweet
children's voices, swollen with anticipation and less impatience. Also, it smells in the house as
of resinous wood scent, and a wisp of smoke from candles runs ominously through the closed door
too quickly again. Patience my children, you know because not that hesitation was only mean
to surprise you? You truly are the kings of this Solid, and never a ruler of the world are more
faithful and more extensive services vassals of the heart been done, than for you. If you know, lovely
tyrant, the absolute power would, to exercise its over our minds!
 He got some thin thread he used to tie beaver snares and wove it back
and forth between the poles, rigging a tin can alarm. It seemed likely someone or something
had put the hole there, it had not just happened. If anything came through, Ed wanted to know
about it. Just to make extra sure, he got some number three traps and made a few blind sets
in front of the hole.

Then he went back to his chores. Whatever was going to happen with the hole would happen when
it happened, and winter was still coming.

He set some babiche to soak for mending his snowshoes. He ran the net he had set at the edge
of the eddy for late silvers and took out two fish. Old Tom had pretty well cleaned up the
mice in the cellar hole, but they were still burrowing around the sills of the lean-to. Ed
took a shovel and opened up a hole so Tom could get under the lean-to floor. He got out his
needles, palm, thread, and wax; and mended his winter moccasins.

Off and on, he checked the hole into the other world. There was nothing but the slow progression
of alien stars across the sky. Finally old Tom grew bored and left to investigate the hole
under the lean-to. Shortly there were scutterings and squeakings as evidence that he, too,
had got back to business.

       *       *       *       *       *

Toward evening, Ed got to wondering how a living creature would take transition into the other
world. He had no intention of trying it himself until he knew a lot more about it, but he thought
he might be able to scare up a surrogate. Out by the wood pile some live-traps were piled under
a spruce, from the time when Ed had been catching marten for the Fish and Wildlife to transplant.
One was still in pretty fair shape. He patched it up and set it among the cottonwoods at the
head of the bar, where there were some rabbit trails.

When he went to bed it was still dark in the other world. He left the cabin door ajar so he
could see it from his bed and set his shotgun, loaded with 00 buck, handy.

Nearing sixty, Ed was not a sound sleeper, even when he had nothing on his mind. About ten
it started to get light in the other world, and that woke him up. He padded out to look, but
there was no change, it looked about the same as yesterday. He went back to bed.

The next morning there was a rabbit in the live-trap. With a pole, Ed pushed the trap with
the rabbit in it through into the other world and watched. Nothing happened. After a while
the rabbit began nibbling at some spears of grass that pushed through the wire of the cage.
Ed pulled it back and examined the rabbit carefully. It seemed healthy and about as happy as
a rabbit could expect to be in a cage.

It did not get dark in the other world till about noon, that day; and about seven, when it
was dark in both worlds, Ed heard the jangle of the tin can alarm, followed by the snap of
one of the steel traps.

He took a flashlight and found a small hoofed animal, hardly bigger than old Tom, rearing and
bucking with a broken leg in the trap. It had sharp little spike horns, only a few inches long,
but mean. Ed got several painful jabs before he got the animal tied up and out of the trap.
He restrung the alarm, then took his catch into the cabin to examine. One should come from the nursery: a whole man and an entire people.
Country, freedom - the great sacred sounds to every good heart beat with magic power, can Victor
Hugo powerful sound in these verses.

The blood, anyway, was red; not blue or yellow or green; and the bones were bones, just odd-shaped.

