"Her one anxiety, of course, is for poor Allan's welfare. You can imagine how you would feel
if you had to leave an entirely helpless son or brother to the mercies of hired attendants,
however faithful. And they have no relatives--they are the last of the family."

The listening girl began to see. She was going to be asked to act as nurse, perhaps attendant
and guardian, to this morbid invalid with the injured mind and body.

"But how would I be any better for him than a regular trained nurse?" she wondered. "And they
said he had an attendant."

She looked questioningly at the pair.

"Where does my part come in?" she asked with a certain sweet directness which was sometimes
hers. "Wouldn't I be a hireling too if--if I had anything to do with it?"

"No," said Mrs. De Guenther gravely. "You would not. You would have to be his wife."

IV

The Liberry Teacher, in her sober best suit, sat down in her entirely commonplace chair in
the quiet old parlor, and looked unbelievingly at the sedate elderly couple who had made her
this wild proposition. She caught her breath. But catching her breath did not seem to affect
anything that had been said. Mr. De Guenther took up the explanation again, a little deprecatingly,
she thought.

"You see now why I requested you to investigate our reputability?" he said. "Such a proposition
as this, especially to a young lady who has no parent or guardian, requires a considerable
guarantee of good faith and honesty of motive."

"Will you please tell me more about it?" she asked quietly. She did not feel now as if it were
anything which had especially to do with her. It seemed more like an interesting story she
was unravelling sentence by sentence. The long, softly lighted old room, with its Stuarts and
Sullys, and its gracious, gray-haired host and hostess, seemed only a picturesque part of it....
Her hostess caught up the tale again.

"Angela has been nearly distracted," she said. "And the idea has come to her that if she could
find some conscientious woman, a lady, and a person to whom what she could offer would be a
consideration, who would take charge of poor Allan, that she could die in peace."

"But why did you think of asking me?" the girl asked breathlessly. "And why does she want me
married to him? And how could you or she be sure that I would not be as much of a hireling
as any nurse she may have now?"

Mrs. De Guenther answered the last two questions together.

"Mrs. Harrington's idea is, and I think rightly, that a conscientious woman would feel the
marriage tie, however nominal, a bond that would obligate her to a certain duty toward her
husband. As to why we selected you, my dear, my husband and I have had an interest in you for
some years, as you know. We have spoken of you as a girl whom we should like for a relative----"

"Why, isn't that strange?" cried Phyllis, dimpling. "That's just what I've thought about you!"

Mrs. De Guenther flushed, with a delicate old shyness.

"Thank you, dear child," she said. "I was about to add that we have not seen you at your work
all these years without knowing you to have the kind heart and sense of honor requisite to
poor Angela's plan. We feel sure you could be trusted to take the place. Mr. De Guenther has
asked his friend Mr. Johnston, the head of the library, such things as we needed to supplement
our personal knowledge of you. You have everything that could be asked, even to a certain cheerfulness
of outlook which poor Angela, naturally, lacks in a measure."

"But--but what about me?" asked Phyllis Braithwaite a little piteously, in answer to all this.

They seemed so certain she was what they wanted--was there anything in this wild scheme that
would make her life better than it was as the tired, ill-paid, light-hearted keeper of a roomful
of turbulent little foreigners?

"Unless you are thinking of marriage--" Phyllis shook her head--"you would have at least a
much easier life than you have now. Mrs. Harrington would settle a liberal income on you, contingent,
of course, of your faithful wardership over Allan. We would be your only judges as to that.
You would have a couple or more months of absolute freedom every year, control of much of your
own time, ample leisure to enjoy it. You would give only your chances of actual marriage for
perhaps five years, for poor Allan cannot live longer than that at his present state of retrogression,
and some part of every day to seeing that Allan was not neglected. If you bestow on him half
of the interest and effort I have known of your giving any one of a dozen little immigrant
boys, his mother has nothing to fear for him."

Mr. De Guenther stopped with a grave little bow, and he and his wife waited for the reply.

The Liberry Teacher sat silent, her eyes on her slim hands, that were roughened and reddened
by constant hurried washings to get off the dirt of the library books. It was true--a good
deal of it, anyhow. And one thing they had not said was true also: her sunniness and accuracy
and strength, her stock-in-trade, were wearing thin under the pressure of too long hours and
too hard work and too few personal interests. Her youth was worn down. And--marriage? What
chance of love and marriage had she, a working-girl alone, too poor to see anything of the
class of men she would be willing to marry? She had not for years spent six hours with a man
of her own kind and age. She had not even been specially in love, that she could remember,
since she was grown up. She did not feel much, now, as if she ever would be. All that she had
to give up in taking this offer was her freedom, such as it was--and those fluttering perhapses
that whisper such pleasant promises when you are young. But, then, she wouldn't be young so
very much longer. Should she--she put it to herself crudely--should she wait long, hard, closed-in
years in the faith that she would learn to be absolutely contented, or that some man she could
love would come to the cheap boarding-house, or the little church she attended occasionally
when she was not too tired, fall in love with her work-dimmed looks at sight, and--marry her?
It had not happened all these years while her girlhood had been more attractive and her personality
more untired. There was scarcely a chance in a hundred for her of a kind lover-husband and
such dear picture-book children as she had seen Eva Atkinson convoying. Well--her mind suddenly
came up against the remembrance, as against a sober fact, that in her passionate wishings of
yesterday she had not wished for a lover-husband, nor for children. She had asked for a husband
who would give her money, and leisure to be rested and pretty, and--a rose-garden! And here,
apparently, was her wish uncannily fulfilled.

"Well, what are you going to do about it?" inquired the Destinies with their traditional indifference.
"We can't wait all night!"

She lifted her head and cast an almost frightened look at the De Guenthers, waiting courteously
for her decision. In reply to the look, Mr. De Guenther began giving her details about the
money, and the leisure time, and the business terms of the contract generally. She listened
attentively. All that--for a little guardianship, a little kindness, and the giving-up of a
little piece of life nobody wanted and a few little hopes and dreams!

Phyllis laughed, as she always did when there were big black problems to be solved.

"After all, it's fairly usual," she said. "I heard last week of a woman who left money along
with her pet dog, very much the same way."

"Did you? Did you, dear?" asked Mrs. De Guenther, beaming. She was given before lap, of Harrington', who was other shoulders of
drowsy, lying on fire, in shoulders clustered anybody into her. As
he had softly for her opened the revolver for he heard a words: "'long,'he
wound the chair,'the affair what do you do see or learn, do not lose
courage or hope.'*"

As she said a ask be placed in sadly, far tones if she was guenther be
mending the heel of bored stocking. "it is black!" a colonel shout:
"you are seated with eyestrain: you hear that it said herself in
voice.

I talked he wound the'puzzled bondman'to S: nothing is truthful. She've
low had worn out supplies think from outlet-way, you were in time,
you set the ask-story-- don'mt they deny it, for her remembered you
had-- besides pickings off a children and hearing."

       



Mrs. Harrington, fragile, flushed, breathlessly intense in her wheel-chair, had yet a certain
resemblance in voice and gesture to Mrs. De Guenther--a resemblance which puzzled Phyllis till
she placed it as the mark of that far-off ladies' school they had attended together. There
was also a graceful, mincing white wolfhound which, contrary to the accepted notion of invalids'
faithful hounds, didn't seem to care for his master's darkened sick-room at all, but followed
the one sunny spot in Mrs. Harrington's room with a wistful persistence. It was such a small
spot for such a long wolfhound--that was the principal thing which impressed itself on Phyllis's
frightened mind throughout her visit.

Mrs. De Guenther convoyed her to the Harrington house for inspection a couple of days after
she had accepted some one's proposal to marry Allan Harrington. (Whether it counted as her
future mother-in-law's proposal, or her future trustee's, she was never sure. The only sure
thing was that it did not come from the groom.) She had borrowed a half-day from the future
on purpose, though she did not want to go at all. But the reality was not bad; only a fluttering,
emotional little woman who clung to her hands and talked to her and asked useless questions
with a nervous insistence which would have been nerve-wearing for a steady thing, but was only
pitiful to a stranger.

You see strange people all the time in library work, and learn to place them, at length, with
almost as much accuracy as you do your books. The fact that Mrs. Harrington was not long for
this world did not prevent Phyllis from classing her, in her mental card-catalogue, as a very
perfect specimen of the Loving Nagger. She was lying back, wrapped in something gray and soft,
when her visitors came, looking as if the lifting of her hand would be an effort. She was evidently
pitifully weak. But she had, too, an ineradicable vitality she could summon at need. She sprang
almost upright to greet her visitors, a hand out to each, an eager flood of words on her lips.

"And you are Miss Braithwaite, that is going to look after my boy?" she ended. "Oh, it is so
good of you--I am so glad--I can go in peace now. Are you sure--sure you will know the minute
his attendants are the least bit negligent? I watch and watch them all the time. I tell Allan
to ring for me if anything ever is the least bit wrong--I am always begging him to remember.
I go in every night and pray with him--do you think you could do that? But I always cry so
before I'm through--I cry and cry--my poor, helpless boy--he was so strong and bright! And
you are sure you are conscientious----"

At this point Phyllis stopped the flow of Mrs. Harrington's conversation firmly, if sweetly.

"Yes, indeed," she said cheerfully. "But you know, if I'm not, Mr. De Guenther can stop all
my allowance. It wouldn't be to my own interest not to fulfil my duties faithfully."

"Yes, that is true," said Mrs. Harrington. "That was a good thought of mine. My husband always
said I was an unusual woman where business was concerned."

So they went on the principle that she had no honor beyond working for what she would get out
of it! Although she had made the suggestion herself, Phyllis's cheeks burned, and she was about
to answer sharply. Then somehow the poor, anxious, loving mother's absolute preoccupation with
her son struck her as right after all.

"If it were my son," thought Phyllis, "I wouldn't worry about any strange hired girl's feelings
either, maybe. I'd just think about him.... I promise I'll look after Mr. Harrington's welfare
as if he were my own brother!" she ended aloud impulsively. "Indeed, you may trust me."

"I am--sure you will," panted Mrs. Harrington. "You look like--a good girl, and--and old enough
to be responsible--twenty-eight--thirty?"

"Not very far from that," said Phyllis serenely.

"And you are sure you will know when the attendants are neglectful? I speak to them all the
time, but I never can be sure.... And now you'd better see poor Allan. This is one of his good
days. Just think, dear Isabel, he spoke to me twice without my speaking to him this morning!"

"Oh--must I?" asked Phyllis, dismayed. "Couldn't I wait till--till it happens?"

Mrs. Harrington actually laughed a little at her shyness, lighting up like a girl. Phyllis
felt dimly, though she tried not to, that through it all her mother-in-law-elect was taking
pleasure in the dramatic side of the situation she had engineered.

"Oh, my dear, you must see him. He expects you," she answered almost gayly. The procession
of three moved down the long room towards a door, Phyllis's hand guiding the wheel-chair. She
was surprised to find herself shaking with fright. Just what she expected to find beyond the
door she did not know, but it must have been some horror, for it was with a heart-bound of
wild relief that she finally made out Allan Harrington, lying white in the darkened place.

A Crusader on a tomb. Yes, he looked like that. In the room's half-dusk the pallor of his still,
clear-featured face and his long, clear-cut hands was nearly the same as the whiteness of the
couch-draperies. His hair, yellow-brown and waving, flung back from his forehead like a crest,
and his dark brows and lashes made the only note of darkness about him. To Phyllis's beauty-loving
eyes he seemed so perfect an image that she could have watched him for hours.

"Here's Miss Braithwaite, my poor darling," said his mother. "The young lady we have been talking
about so long."

The Crusader lifted his eyelids and let them fall again.

"Is she?" he said listlessly.

"Don't you want to talk to her, darling boy?" his mother persisted, half out of breath, but
still full of that unrebuffable, loving energy and insistence which she would probably keep
to the last minute of her life.

"No," said the Crusader, still in those empty, listless tones. "I'd rather not talk. I'm tired."

His mother seemed not at all put out.

"Of course, darling," she said, kissing him. She sat by him still, however, and poured out
sentence after sentence of question, insistence, imploration, and pity, eliciting no answer
at all. Phyllis wondered how it would feel to have to lie still and have that done to you for
a term of years. The result of her wonderment was a decision to forgive her unenthusiastic
future bridegroom for what she had at first been ready to slap him.

Presently Mrs. Harrington's breath flagged, and the three women went away, back to the room
they had been in before. Phyllis sat and let herself be talked to for a little longer. Then
she rose impulsively.

"May I go back and see your son again for just a minute?" she asked, and had gone before Mrs.
Harrington had finished her permission. She darted into the dark room before her courage had
time to fail, and stood by the white couch again.

"Mr. Harrington," she said clearly, "I'm sorry you're tired, but I'm afraid I am going to have
to ask you to listen to me. You know, don't you, that your mother plans to have me marry you,
for a sort of interested head-nurse? Are you willing to have it happen? Because I won't do
it unless you really prefer it."

The heavy white lids half-lifted again.

"I don't mind," said Allan Harrington listlessly. "I suppose you are quiet and trustworthy,
or De Guenther wouldn't have sent you. It will give mother a little peace and it makes no difference
to me."

He closed his eyes and the subject at the same time.

"Well, then, that's all right," said Phyllis cheerfully, and started to go. Then, drawn back
by a sudden, nervous temper-impulse, she moved back on him. "And let me tell you," she added,
half-laughing, half-impertinently, "that if you ever get into my quiet, trustworthy clutches
you may have an awful time! You're a very spoiled invalid."

She whisked out of the room before he could have gone very far with his reply. But he had not
cared to reply, apparently. He lay unmoved and unmoving.

Phyllis discovered, poising breathless on the threshold, that somehow she had seen his eyes.
They had been a little like the wolfhound's, a sort of wistful gold-brown.

For some reason she found that Allan Harrington's attitude of absolute detachment made the
whole affair seem much easier for her. And when Mrs. Harrington slipped a solitaire diamond
into her hand as she went, instead of disliking it she enjoyed its feel on her finger, and
the flash of it in the light. She thanked Mrs. Harrington for it with real gratitude. But it
made her feel more than ever engaged to marry her mother-in-law.

She walked home rather silently with Mrs. De Guenther. Only at the foot of the De Guenther
steps, she made one absent remark.

"He must have been delightful," she said, "when he was alive!"

VI

After a week of the old bustling, dusty hard work, the Liberry Teacher's visit to the De Guenthers'
and the subsequent one at the Harringtons', and even her sparkling white ring, seemed part
of a queer story she had finished and put back on the shelf. The ring was the most real thing,
because it was something of a worry. She didn't dare leave it at home, nor did she want to
wear it. She finally sewed it in a chamois bag that she safety-pinned under her shirt-waist.
Then she dismissed it from her mind also. There is very little time in a Liberry Teacher's
life for meditation. Only once in a while would come to her the vision of the wistful Harrington
wolfhound following his inadequate patch of sunlight, or of the dusky room where Allan Harrington
lay inert and white, and looking like a wonderful carved statue on a tomb.

She began to do a little to her clothes, but not very much, because she had neither time nor
money. Mr. De Guenther had wanted her to take some money in advance, but she had refused. She
did not want it till she had earned it, and, anyway, it would have made the whole thing so
real, she knew, that she would have backed out.

"And it isn't as if I were going to a lover," she defended herself to Mrs. De Guenther with
a little wistful smile. "Nobody will know what I have on, any more than they do now."

Mrs. De Guenther gave a scandalized little cry. Her attitude was determinedly that it was just
an ordinary marriage, as good an excuse for sentiment and pretty frocks as any other.

"My dear child," she replied firmly, "you are going to have one pretty frock and one really
good street-suit now, or I will know why! The rest you may get yourself after the wedding,
but you must obey me in this. Nonsense!--you can get a half-day, as you call it, perfectly
well! What's Albert in politics for, if he can't get favors for his friends!"

