This was doubtless the first appearance of the "tournament" up here among the rolling-mills
and factories, and will probably be the last. It will be well to let it retire permanently
to the rural districts of Virginia, where, it is said, the fine mailed and plumed, noble-natured,
maiden-rescuing, wrong-redressing, adventure-seeking knight of romance is accepted and believed
in by the peasantry with pleasing simplicity, while they reject with scorn the plain, unpolished
verdict whereby history exposes him as a braggart, a ruffian, a fantastic vagabond; and an
ignoramus.

All romance aside, what shape would our admiration of the heroes of Ashby de la Zouch be likely
to take, in this practical age, if those worthies were to rise up and come here and perform
again the chivalrous deeds of that famous passage of arms? Nothing but a New York jury and
the insanity plea could save them from hanging, from the amiable Bois-Guilbert and the pleasant
Front-de-Boeuf clear down to the nameless ruffians that entered the riot with unpictured shields
and did their first murder and acquired their first claim to respect that day. The doings of
the so-called "chivalry" of the Middle Ages were absurd enough, even when they were brutally
and bloodily in earnest, and when their surroundings of castles and donjons, savage landscapes
and half-savage peoples, were in keeping; but those doings gravely reproduced with tinsel decorations
and mock pageantry, by bucolic gentlemen with broomstick lances, and with muffin-rings to represent
the foe, and all in the midst of the refinement and dignity of a carefully-developed modern
civilisation, is absurdity gone crazy.

Now, for next exhibition, let us have a fine representation of one of those chivalrous wholesale
butcheries and burnings of Jewish women and children, which the crusading heroes of romance
used to indulge in in their European homes, just before starting to the Holy Land, to seize
and take to their protection the Sepulchre and defend it from "pollution."

CURIOUS RELIC FOR SALE

     "For sale, for the benefit of the Fund for the Relief of the Widows
     and Orphans of Deceased Firemen, a Curious Ancient Bedouin Pipe,
     procured at the city of Endor in Palestine, and believed to have
     once belonged to the justly-renowned Witch of Endor.  Parties
     desiring to examine this singular relic with a view to purchasing,
     can do so by calling upon Daniel S.. 119 and 121 William street, New
     York"

As per advertisement in the "Herald." A curious old relic indeed, as I had a good personal
right to know. In a single instant of time, a long drawn panorama of sights and scenes in the
Holy Land flashed through my memory--town and grove, desert, camp, and caravan clattering after
each other and disappearing, leaping me with a little of the surprised and dizzy feeling which
I have experienced at sundry times when a long express train has overtaken me at some quiet
curve and gone whizzing, car by car, around the corner and out of sight. In that prolific instant
I saw again all the country from the Sea of Galilee and Nazareth clear to Jerusalem, and thence
over the hills of Judea and through the Vale of Sharon to Joppa, down by the ocean. Leaving
out unimportant stretches of country and details of incident, I saw and experienced the following
described matters and things. Immediately three years fell away from my age, and a vanished
time was restored to me September, 1867. It was a flaming Oriental day--this one that had come
up out of the past and brought along its actors, its stage-properties, and scenic effects--and
our party had just ridden through the squalid hive of human vermin which still holds the ancient
Biblical name of Endor; I was bringing up the rear on my grave four-dollar steed, who was about
beginning to compose himself for his usual noon nap. My! only fifteen minutes before how the
black, mangy, nine-tenths naked, ten-tenths filthy, ignorant, bigoted, besotted, hungry, lazy,
malignant, screeching, crowding, struggling, wailing, begging, cursing, hateful spawn of the
original Witch had swarmed out of the caves in the rocks and the holes and crevices in the
earth, and blocked our horses' way, besieged us, threw themselves in the animals' path, clung
to their manes, saddle-furniture, and tails, asking, beseeching, demanding "bucksheesh! bucksheesh!
BUCKSHEESH!" We had rained small copper Turkish coins among them, as fugitives fling coats
and hats to pursuing wolves, and then had spurred our way through as they stopped to scramble
for the largess. I was fervently thankful when we had gotten well up on the desolate hillside
and outstripped them and left them jawing and gesticulating in the rear. What a tempest had
seemingly gone roaring and crashing by me and left its dull thunders pulsing in my ears!

I was in the rear, as I was saying. Our pack-mules and Arabs were far ahead, and Dan, Jack,
Moult, Davis, Denny, Church, and Birch (these names will do as well as any to represent the
boys) were following close after them. As my horse nodded to rest, I heard a sort of panting
behind me, and turned and saw that a tawny youth from the village had overtaken me--a true
remnant and representative of his ancestress the Witch--a galvanised scurvy, wrought into the
human shape and garnished with ophthalmia and leprous scars--an airy creature with an invisible
shirt-front that reached below the pit of his stomach, and no other clothing to speak of except
a tobacco-pouch, an ammunition-pocket, and a venerable gun, which was long enough to club any
game with that came within shooting distance, but far from efficient as an article of dress.

I thought to myself, "Now this disease with a human heart in it is going to shoot me." I smiled
in derision at the idea of a Bedouin daring to touch off his great-grandfather's rusty gun
and getting his head blown off for his pains. But then it occurred to me, in simple school-boy
language, "Suppose he should take deliberate aim and 'haul off' and fetch me with the butt-end
of it?" There was wisdom in that view of it, and I stopped to parley. I found he was only a
friendly villain who wanted a trifle of bucksheesh, and after begging what he could get in
that way, was perfectly willing to trade off everything he had for more. I believe he would
have parted with his last shirt for bucksheesh if he had had one. He was smoking the "humbliest"
pipe I ever saw--a dingy, funnel-shaped, red-clay thing, streaked and grimed with oil and tears
of tobacco, and with all the different kinds of dirt there are, and thirty per cent. of them
peculiar and indigenous to Endor and perdition. And rank? I never smelt anything like it. It
withered a cactus that stood lifting its prickly hands aloft beside the trail. It even woke
up my horse. I said I would take that. It cost me a franc, a Russian kopek, a brass button,
and a slate pencil; and my spendthrift lavishness so won upon the son of the desert that he
passed over his pouch of most unspeakably villainous tobacco to me as a free gift. What a pipe
it was, to be sure! It had a rude brass-wire cover to it, and a little coarse iron chain suspended
from the bowl, with an iron splinter attached to loosen up the tobacco and pick your teeth
with. The stem looked like the half of a slender walking-stick with the bark on.

I felt that this pipe had belonged to the original Witch of Endor as soon as I saw it; and
as soon as I smelt it, I knew it. Moreover, I asked the Arab cub in good English if it was
not so, and he answered in good Arabic that it was. I woke up my horse and went my way, smoking.
And presently I said to myself reflectively, "If there is anything that could make a man deliberately
assault a dying cripple, I reckon may be an unexpected whiff from this pipe would do it." I
smoked along till I found I was beginning to lie, and project murder, and steal my own things
out of one pocket and hide them in another; and then I put up my treasure, took off my spurs
and put them under my horse's tail, and shortly came tearing through our caravan like a hurricane.

From that time forward, going to Jerusalem, the Dead Sea, and the Jordan, Bethany, Bethlehem,
and everywhere, I loafed contentedly in the rear and enjoyed my infamous pipe and revelled
in imaginary villany. But at the end of two weeks we turned our faces toward the sea and journeyed
over the Judean hills, and through rocky defiles, and among the scenes that Samson knew in
his youth, and by and by we touched level ground just at night, and trotted off cheerily over
the plain of Sharon. It was perfectly jolly for three hours, and we whites crowded along together,
close after the chief Arab muleteer (all the pack-animals and the other Arabs were miles in
the rear), and we laughed, and chatted, and argued hotly about Samson, and whether suicide
was a sin or not, since Paul speaks of Samson distinctly as being saved and in heaven. But
by and by the night air, and the duskiness, and the weariness of eight hours in the saddle,
began to tell, and conversation flagged and finally died out utterly. The squeak-squeaking
of the saddles grew very distinct; occasionally somebody sighed, or started to hum a tune and
gave it up; now and then a horse sneezed. These things only emphasised the solemnity and the
stillness. Everybody got so listless that for once I and my dreamer found ourselves in the
lead. It was a glad, new sensation, and I longed to keep the place forevermore. Every little
stir in the dingy cavalcade behind made me nervous. Davis and I were riding side by side, right
after the Arab. About 11 o'clock it had become really chilly, and the dozing boys roused up
and began to inquire how far it was to Ramlah yet, and to demand that the Arab hurry along
faster. I gave it up then, and my heart sank within me, because of course they would come up
to scold the Arab. I knew I had to take the rear again. In my sorrow I unconsciously took to
my pipe, my only comfort. As I touched the match to it the whole company came lumbering up
and crowding my horse's rump and flanks. A whiff of smoke drifted back over my shoulder, and--

"The suffering Moses!"

"Whew!"

"By George, who opened that graveyard?"

"Boys, that Arab's been swallowing something dead!"

Right away there was a gap behind us. Whiff after whiff sailed airily back, and each one widened
the breach. Within fifteen seconds the barking, and gasping, and sneezing, and coughing of
the boys, and their angry abuse of the Arab guide, had dwindled to a murmur, and Davis and
I were alone with the leader. Davis did not know what the matter was, and don't to this day.
Occasionally he caught a faint film of the smoke and fell to scolding at the Arab and wondering
how long he had been decaying in that way. Our boys kept on dropping back further and further,
till at last they were only in hearing, not in sight. And every time they started gingerly
forward to reconnoitre or shoot the Arab, as they proposed to do--I let them get within good
fair range of my relic (she would carry seventy yards with wonderful precision), and then wafted
a whiff among them that sent them gasping and strangling to the rear again. I kept my gun well
charged and ready, and twice within the hour I decoyed the boys right up to my horse's tail,
and then with one malarious blast emptied the saddles, almost. I never heard an Arab abused
so in my life. He really owed his preservation to me, because for one entire hour I stood between
him and certain death. The boys would have killed him if they could have got by me.

By and by, when the company were far in the rear, I put away my pipe--I was getting fearfully
dry and crisp about the gills and rather blown with good diligent work--and spurred my animated
trance up alongside the Arab and stopped him and asked for water. He unslung his little gourd-shaped
earthenware jug, and I put it under my moustache and took a long, glorious, satisfying draught.
I was going to scour the mouth of the jug a little, but I saw that I had brought the whole
train together once more by my delay, and that they were all anxious to drink too--and would
have been long ago if the Arab had not pretended that he was out of water. So I hastened to
pass the vessel to Davis. He took a mouthful, and never said a word, but climbed off his horse
and lay down calmly in the road. I felt sorry for Davis. It was too late now, though, and Dan
was drinking. Dan got down too, and hunted for a soft place. I thought I heard Dan say, "That
Arab's friends ought to keep him in alcohol or else take him out and bury him somewhere." All
the boys took a drink and climbed down. It is not well to go into further particulars. Let
us draw the curtain upon this act.

            ..............................

Well, now, to think that after three changing years I should hear from that curious old relic
again, and see Dan advertising it for sale for the benefit of a benevolent object. Dan is not
treating that present right. I gave that pipe to him for a keepsake. However, he probably finds
that it keeps away custom and interferes with business. It is the most convincing inanimate
object in all this part of the world, perhaps. Dan and I were roommates in all that long "Quaker
City" voyage, and whenever I desired to have a little season of privacy I used to fire up on
that pipe and persuade Dan to go out; and he seldom waited to change his clothes, either. In
about a quarter, or from that to three-quarters of a minute, he would be propping up the smoke-stack
on the upper deck and cursing. I wonder how the faithful old relic is going to sell?

A REMINISCENCE OF THE BACK SETTLEMENTS

"Now that corpse [said the undertaker, patting the folded hands of the deceased approvingly]
was a brick--every way you took him he was a brick. He was so real accommodating, and so modest-like
and simple in his last moments. Friends wanted metallic burial case--nothing else would do.
I couldn't get it. There warn't going to be time anybody could see that. Corpse said never
mind, shake him up some kind of a box he could stretch out in comfortable, he warn't particular
'bout the general style of it. Said he went more on room than style, any way, in the last final
container. Friends wanted a silver door-plate on the coffin, signifying who he was and wher'
he was from. Now you know a fellow couldn't roust out such a gaily thing as that in a little
country town like this. What did corpse say? Corpse said, whitewash his old canoe and dob his
address and general destination onto it with a blacking brush and a stencil plate, long with
a verse from some likely hymn or other, and pint him for the tomb, and mark him C. O. D., and
just let him skip along. He warn't distressed any more than you be--on the contrary just as
carm and collected as a hearse-horse; said he judged that wher' he was going to, a body would
find it considerable better to attract attention by a picturesque moral character than a natty
burial case with a swell doorplate on it. Splendid man, he was. I'd druther do for a corpse
like that 'n any I've tackled in seven year. There's some satisfaction in buryin' a man like
that. You feel that what you're doing is appreciated. Lord bless you, so's he got planted before
he sp'iled, he was perfectly satisfied; said his relations meant well, perfectly well, but
all them preparations was bound to delay the thing more or less, and he didn't wish to be kept
layin' round. You never see such a clear head as what he had--and so carm and so cool. Just
a hunk of brains that is what he was. Perfectly awful. It was a ripping distance from one end
of that man's head to t'other. Often and over again he's had brain fever a-raging in one place,
and the rest of the pile didn't know anything about it--didn't affect it any more than an Injun
insurrection in Arizona affects the Atlantic States. Well, the relations they wanted a big
funeral, but corpse said he was down on flummery--didn't want any procession--fill the hearse
full of mourners, and get out a stern line and tow him behind. He was the most down on style
of any remains I ever struck. A beautiful, simple-minded creature--it was what he was, you
can depend on that. He was just set on having things the way he wanted them, and he took a
solid comfort in laying his little plans. He had me measure him and take a whole raft of directions;
then he had a minister stand up behind a long box with a tablecloth over it and read his funeral
sermon, saying 'Angcore, angcore!' at the good places, and making him scratch out every bit
of brag about him, and all the hifalutin; and then he made them trot out the choir so's he
could help them pick out the tunes for the occasion, and he got them to sing 'Pop Goes the
Weasel,' because he'd always liked that tune when he was downhearted, and solemn music made
him sad; and when they sung that with tears in their eyes (because they all loved him), and
his relations grieving around, he just laid there as happy as a bug, and trying to beat time
and showing all over how much he enjoyed it; and presently he got worked up and excited; and
tried to join in, for mind you he was pretty proud of his abilities in the singing line; but
the first time he opened his mouth and was just going to spread himself, his breath took a
walk. I never see a man snuffed out so sudden. Ah, it was a great loss--it was a powerful loss
to this poor little one-horse town. Well, well, well, I hain't got time to be palavering along
here--got to nail on the lid and mosey along with' him; and if you'll just give me a lift we'll
skeet him into the hearse and meander along. Relations bound to have it so--don't pay no attention
to dying injunctions, minute a corpse's gone; but if I had my way, if I didn't respect his
last wishes and tow him behind the hearse, I'll be cuss'd. I consider that whatever a corpse
wants done for his comfort is a little enough matter, and a man hain't got no right to deceive
him or take advantage of him--and whatever a corpse trusts me to do I'm a-going to do, you
know, even if it's to stuff him and paint him yaller and keep him for a keepsake--you hear me!"

He cracked his whip and went lumbering away with his ancient ruin of a hearse, and I continued
my walk with a valuable lesson learned--that a healthy and wholesome cheerfulness is not necessarily
impossible to any occupation. The lesson is likely to be lasting, for it will take many months
to obliterate the memory of the remarks and circumstances that impressed it.

A ROYAL COMPLIMENT

     The latest report about the Spanish crown is, that it will now be
     offered to Prince Alfonso, the second son of the King of Portugal,
     who is but five years of age.  The Spaniards have hunted through all
     the nations of Europe for a King.  They tried to get a Portuguese in
     the person of Dom-Luis, who is an old ex-monarch; they tried to get
     an Italian, in the person of Victor Emanuel's young son, the Duke of
     Genoa; they tried to get a Spaniard, in the person of Espartero, who
     is an octogenarian.  Some of them desired a French Bourbon,
     Montpensier; some of them a Spanish Bourbon, the Prince of Asturias;
     some of them an English prince, one of the sons of Queen Victoria.
     They have just tried to get the German Prince Leopold; but they have
     thought it better to give him up than take a war along with him.
     It is a long time since we first suggested to them to try an
     American ruler.  We can offer them a large number of able and
     experienced sovereigns to pick from--men skilled in statesmanship,
     versed in the science of government, and adepts in all the arts of
     administration--men who could wear the crown with dignity and rule
     the kingdom at a reasonable expense.

     There is not the least danger of Napoleon threatening them if they
     take an American sovereign; in fact, we have no doubt he would be
     pleased to support such a candidature.  We are unwilling to mention
     names--though we have a man in our eye whom we wish they had in
     theirs.--New York Tribune.

It would be but an ostentation of modesty to permit such a pointed reference to myself to pass
unnoticed. This is the second time that 'The Tribune' (no doubt sincerely looking to the best
interests of Spain and the world at large) has done me the great and unusual honour to propose
me as a fit person to fill the Spanish throne. Why 'The Tribune' should single me out in this
way from the midst of a dozen Americans of higher political prominence, is a problem which
I cannot solve. Beyond a somewhat intimate knowledge of Spanish history and a profound veneration
for its great names and illustrious deeds, I feel that I possess no merit that should peculiarly
recommend me to this royal distinction. I cannot deny that Spanish history has always been
mother's milk to me. I am proud of every Spanish achievement, from Hernando Cortes's victory
at Thermopylae down to Vasco Nunez de Balboa's discovery of the Atlantic ocean; and of every
splendid Spanish name, from Don Quixote and the Duke of Wellington down to Don Caesar de Bazan.
However, these little graces of erudition are of small consequence, being more showy than serviceable.

In case the Spanish sceptre is pressed upon me--and the indications unquestionably are that
it will be--I shall feel it necessary to have certain things set down and distinctly understood
beforehand. For instance: My salary must be paid quarterly in advance. In these unsettled times
it will not do to trust. If Isabella had adopted this plan, she would be roosting on her ancestral
throne to-day, for the simple reason that her subjects never could have raised three months
of a royal salary in advance, and of course they could not have discharged her until they had
squared up with her. My salary must be paid in gold; when greenbacks are fresh in a country,
they are too fluctuating. My salary has got to be put at the ruling market rate; I am not going
to cut under on the trade, and they are not going to trail me a long way from home and then
practise on my ignorance and play me for a royal North Adams Chinaman, by any means. As I understand
it, imported kings generally get five millions a year and house-rent free. Young George of
Greece gets that. As the revenues only yield two millions, he has to take the national note
for considerable; but even with things in that sort of shape he is better fixed than he was
in Denmark, where he had to eternally stand up because he had no throne to sit on, and had
to give bail for his board, because a royal apprentice gets no salary there while he is learning
his trade. England is the place for that. Fifty thousand dollars a year Great Britain pays
on each royal child that is born, and this is increased from year to year as the child becomes
more and more indispensable to his country. Look at Prince Arthur. At first he only got the
usual birth-bounty; but now that he has got so that he can dance, there is simply no telling
what wages he gets.

I should have to stipulate that the Spanish people wash more and endeavour to get along with
less quarantine. Do you know, Spain keeps her ports fast locked against foreign traffic three-fourths
of each year, because one day she is scared about the cholera, and the next about the plague,
and next the measles, next the hooping cough, the hives, and the rash? but she does not mind
leonine leprosy and elephantiasis any more than a great and enlightened civilisation minds
freckles. Soap would soon remove her anxious distress about foreign distempers. The reason
arable land is so scarce in Spain is because the people squander so much of it on their persons,
and then when they die it is improvidently buried with them.

I should feel obliged to stipulate that Marshal Serrano be reduced to the rank of constable,
or even roundsman. He is no longer fit to be City Marshal. A man who refused to be king because
he was too old and feeble, is ill qualified to help sick people to the station-house when they
are armed and their form of delirium tremens is of the exuberant and demonstrative kind.

I should also require that a force be sent to chase the late Queen Isabella out of France.
Her presence there can work no advantage to Spain, and she ought to be made to move at once;
though, poor thing, she has been chaste enough heretofore--for a Spanish woman.

I should also require that--

I am at this moment authoritatively informed that "The Tribune" did not mean me, after all.
Very well, I do not care two cents.

THE APPROACHING EPIDEMIC

One calamity to which the death of Mr. Dickens dooms this country has not awakened the concern
to which its gravity entitles it. We refer to the fact that the nation is to be lectured to
death and read to death all next winter, by Tom, Dick, and Harry, with poor lamented Dickens
for a pretext. All the vagabonds who can spell will afflict the people with "readings" from
Pickwick and Copperfield, and all the insignificants who have been ennobled by the notice of
the great novelist or transfigured by his smile will make a marketable commodity of it now,
and turn the sacred reminiscence to the practical use of procuring bread and butter. The lecture
rostrums will fairly swarm with these fortunates. Already the signs of it are perceptible.
Behold how the unclean creatures are wending toward the dead lion and gathering to the feast:

"Reminiscences of Dickens." A lecture. By John Smith, who heard him read eight times.

"Remembrances of Charles Dickens." A lecture. By John Jones, who saw him once in a street car
and twice in a barber shop.

"Recollections of Mr. Dickens." A lecture. By John Brown, who gained a wide fame by writing
deliriously appreciative critiques and rhapsodies upon the great author's public readings;
and who shook hands with the great author upon various occasions, and held converse with him
several times.

"Readings from Dickens." By John White, who has the great delineator's style and manner perfectly,
having attended all his readings in this country and made these things a study, always practising
each reading before retiring, and while it was hot from the great delineator's lips. Upon this
occasion Mr. W. will exhibit the remains of a cigar which he saw Mr. Dickens smoke. This Relic
is kept in a solid silver box made purposely for it.

"Sights and Sounds of the Great Novelist." A popular lecture. By John Gray, who waited on his
table all the time he was at the Grand Hotel, New York, and still has in his possession and
will exhibit to the audience a fragment of the Last Piece of Bread which the lamented author
tasted in this country.

"Heart Treasures of Precious Moments with Literature's Departed Monarch." A lecture. By Miss
Serena Amelia Tryphenia McSpadden, who still wears, and will always wear, a glove upon the
hand made sacred by the clasp of Dickens. Only Death shall remove it.

"Readings from Dickens." By Mrs. J. O'Hooligan Murphy, who washed for him.

