When Fontanieu and I were alone down in his cabinet, I remained some moments talking to him
upon the same subject, to allow the valets who had opened the doors for us time to retire.
Then, to his great astonishment, I went outside to see if there were no listeners, and carefully
closed the doors.  After this I said to Fontanieu that I had not come concerning the affair
of Madame de Lauzun, but upon another very different, which demanded all his industry, a secrecy
proof against every trial, and which M. le Duc d'Orleans had charged me to communicate to him;
but that before explaining myself he must know whether his Royal Highness could certainly count
upon him.

It is strange what an impression the wildest absurdities leave if they are spread abroad with
art.  The first thing Fontanieu did was to tremble violently all over and become whiter than
his shirt.  With difficulty he stammered out a few words to the effect that he would do for
M. le Duc d'Orleans as much as his duty would permit him to do.  I smiled, looking fixedly
at him, and this smile warned him apparently that he owed me an excuse for not being quite
at ease upon any affair that passed through my hands; he directly made me one, at all events,
and with the confusion of a man who sees that his first view has dazzled the second, and who,
full of this first view, does not show anything, yet lets all be seen.

I reassured him as well as I could, and said that I had answered for him to M. le Duc d'Orleans,
and afterwards that a Bed of justice was wanted, for the construction of which we had need of him.

Scarcely had I explained this, than the poor fellow began to take breath, as though escaping
from stifling oppression, or a painful operation for the stone, and asked me if that was what
I wanted?

He promised everything, so glad was he to be let off thus cheaply, and in truth he kept to
his word, both as to the secret and the work.  He had never seen a Bed of justice, and had
not the slightest notion what it was like.  I sat down on his bureau, and drew out the design
of one.  I dictated to him the explanations in the margin, because I did not wish them to be
in my handwriting.  I talked more than an hour with him; I disarranged his furniture, the better
to show to him the order of the assembly, and explained to him what was to be done, so that
all might be carried to the Tuileries and erected in a very, few moments.  When I found I had
made everything sufficiently clear, and he had understood me, I returned to the Palais Royal
as though recollecting something, being already in the streets, to deceive my people.

A servant awaited me at the top of the staircase, and the concierge of the Palais Royal at
the door of M. le Duc d'Orleans' room, with orders to beg me to write.  It was the sacred hour
of the roues and the supper, at which all idea of business was banished.  I wrote, therefore,
to the Regent in his winter cabinet what I had just done, not without some little indignation
that he could not give up his pleasure for an affair of this importance.  I was obliged to
beg the concierge not to give my note to M. le Duc d'Orleans unless he were in a state to read
it and to burn it afterwards.

Our preparations for the Bed of justice continued to be actively but silently made during the
next few days.  In the course of the numberless discussions which arose upon the subject, it
was agreed, after much opposition on my part, to strike a blow, not only at the Parliament,
but at M. du Maine, who had fomented its discontent.  M. le Duc, who had been admitted to our
councils, and who was heart and soul against the bastards, proposed that at the Bed of justice
the education of the young King should be taken out of the control of M. du Maine and placed
in his hands.  He proposed also that the title of Prince of the Blood should be taken from
him, with all the privileges it conferred, and that he should be reduced to the rank of a simple
Duke and Peer, taking his place among the rest according to the date of his erection; thus,
at a bound, going down to the bottom of the peerage!

Should these memoirs ever see the light, every one who reads them will be able to judge how
such a proposition as this harmonised with my personal wishes.  I had seen the bastards grow
in rank and importance with an indignation and disgust I could scarcely contain.  I had seen
favour after favour heaped upon them by the late King, until he crowned all by elevating them
to the rank of Princes of the Blood in defiance of all law, of all precedent, of all decency,
if I must say the word.  What I felt at this accumulation of honours I have more than once
expressed; what I did to oppose such monstrous innovations has also been said.  No man could
be more against M. du Maine than I, and yet I opposed this proposition of M. le Duc because
I thought one blow was enough at a time, and that it might be dangerous to attempt the two
at once.  M. du Maine had supporters, nay; he was at the head of a sort of party; strip him
of the important post he held, and what might not his rake, his disappointment, and his wounded
ambition lead him to attempt?  Civil war, perhaps, would be the result of his disgrace.

Again and again I urged these views, not only upon M. le Duc d'Orleans, but upon M. le Duc.
Nay, with this latter I had two long stolen interviews in the Tuileries Gardens, where we spoke
without constraint, and exhausted all our arguments.  But M. le Duc was not to be shaken, and
as I could do no more than I had done to move him, I was obliged at last to give in.  It was
resolved, however, that disgrace should fall upon M. du Maine alone; that his brother, the
Comte de Toulouse, an account of the devotion to the State he had ever exhibited, and his excellent
conduct since the death of the late King, should, when stripped of his title like the other,
receive it back again the moment after, in acknowledgment of the services he had rendered to
the Regent as Councillor of State, and as an expression of personal good feeling towards him,
which his excellent qualities so justly merited.

I returned home from my last interview with M. le Duc, and went to mass at the Jacobins, to
which I entered from my garden.  It was not without a distracted mind.  But I prayed to God
sincerely and earnestly to guide my steps, so that I might labour for His glory and the good
of the State without private ends.  My prayer was heard, and in the sequel I had nothing to
reproach myself with.  I followed the straight road without turning to the right or to the left.

Fontanieu was waiting for me in my house as I returned home from mass, and I was obliged to
listen to his questions and to reply to them, as though I had nothing on my mind.  I arranged
my chamber like a Bed of Justice, I made him understand several things; connected with the
ceremonial that he had not under stood before, and that it was essential he should in no way
omit.  Thus everything went on satisfactorily, and I began to count the hours, by day as well
as by night, until the great day was to arrive on which the arrogant pride of the Parliament
was to receive a check, and the false plumage which adorned the bastards was to be plucked
from them.

In the midst of the sweet joy that I felt, no bitterness entered.  I was satisfied with the
part I had played in this affair, satisfied that I had acted sincerely, honestly, that I had
not allowed my own private motives to sway me; that in the interests of the State, as opposed
to my own interests, I had done all in my power to save the Duc du Maine.  And yet I did not
dare to give myself up to the rosy thoughts suggested by the great event, now so rapidly approaching.
I toyed with them instead of allowing myself to embrace them.  I shrunk from them as it were
like a cold lover who fears the too ardent caresses of his mistress.  I could not believe that
the supreme happiness I had so long pined for was at last so near.  Might not M. le Duc d'Orleans
falter at the last moment? Might not all our preparations, so carefully conducted, so cleverly
planned, weigh upon his feebleness until they fell to the ground?  It was not improbable. 
He was often firm in promises.  How often was he firm in carrying them out?  All these questions,
all these restless doubts-- natural as it appears to me under the circumstances--winged their
way through my mind, and kept me excited and feverish as though life and death were hanging
on one thread.

In the midst of my reflections, a messenger from M. le Duc d'Orleans, Millain by name, arrived
at my house.  It was on the afternoon of Thursday, the 25th of August, 1718.  His message was
simple.  M. le Duc d'Orleans was in the same mood as ever, and I was to join him at the Palais
Royal, according to previous agreement, at eight o'clock in the evening.  The Bed of justice
was to be held on the morrow.

Never was kiss given to a beautiful mistress sweeter than that which I imprinted upon the fat
old face of this charming messenger!  A close embrace, eagerly repeated, was my first reply,
followed afterwards by an overflow of feeling for M. le Duc, and for Millain even, who had
worthily served in this great undertaking.

The rest of the day I passed at home with the Abbe Dubois, Fagon, and the Duc de la Force,
one after the other finishing up our work.  We provided against everything: If the Parliament
refused to come to the Tuileries, its interdiction was determined on: if any of the members
attempted to leave Paris they were to be arrested; troops were to be assembled in order to
carry out the Regent's orders; we left no accident without its remedy.

The Abbe Dubois arranged a little code of signals, such as crossing the legs, shaking a handkerchief,
or other simple gestures, to be given the first thing in the morning to the officers of the
body-guards chosen to be in attendance in the room where the Bed of Justice was to be held.
They were to fix their eyes upon the Regent, and when he made any of the above signals, immediately
to act upon it according to their written instructions.  The Abbe Dubois also drew out a sort
of programme for M. le Duc d'Orleans, of the different orders he was to give during the night,
fixing the hour for each, so that they might not arrive a minute too soon or a minute too late,
and secrecy thus be maintained to the very latest moment.

Towards eight o'clock in the evening I went to they Palais Royal.  I was horror-struck to find
M. le Duc d'Orleans in bed with fever, as he said; I felt his pulse.  Fever, he had, sure enough;
perhaps from excitement caused by the business in hand.  I said to him it was only fatigue
of body and mind, of which he would be quit in twenty-four hours; he, on his side, protested
that whatever it might be, he would hold the Bed of justice on the morrow.  M. le Duc, who
had just entered, was at his pillow; the chamber lighted by a single wax candle.  We sat down,
M. le Duc and I, and passed in review the orders given and to give, not without much apprehension
on account of this fever, come so strangely out of season to the healthiest man in the world,
and who had never had it before.

I exhorted the Regent to take as much repose as he could, so that he might be fully able to
execute the great work of the morrow, the safety of the Regency itself being at stake.  After
this I felt his pulse again, not without fear.  I assured him, however, his illness would be
nothing; without, it is true, being too sure of it myself.  I took my leave about ten o'clock,
and went out of the room with Millain.  When I found myself alone with him in the cabinet,
through which we passed, I embraced him with an extreme pleasure.  We had entered by the backstairs;
we descended by the same, so as not to be observed.  It was dark, so that on both occasions
we were obliged to grope our way.  Upon arriving at the bottom I could not refrain from again
embracing Millain, so great was my pleasure, and we separated each to his home.

The arrangements respecting the troops and for summoning the Parliament, etc., were all carried
out to the letter during the night and early morning.  At the hours agreed upon M. le Duc d'Orleans
gave the various orders.  About four o'clock in the morning the Duc du Maine, as colonel- general
of the Swiss guards, was aroused.  He had not been in bed above an hour, having just returned
from a fete given at the arsenal by Madame du Maine.  He was doubtless much astonished, but
contained himself, hid his fear, and sent at once to instruct his companies of Swiss guards
of the orders they were to execute.  I don't think he slept very well after this, uncertain
as he must have been what was going to happen.  But I never knew what he or Madame du Maine
did after being thus rudely disturbed.

Towards five o'clock in the morning drums began to be heard throughout the town, and soon soldiers
were seen in movement.  At six o'clock a message was sent to the Parliament requesting it to
attend at the Tuileries.  The reply was that the request should be obeyed.  The members thereupon
debated whether they should go to the Tuileries in coaches or on foot.  The last mode was adopted
as being the most ordinary, and in the hope of stirring the people and arriving at the Tuileries
with a yelling crowd.  What happened will be related in its place.

At the same time, horsemen went to all the Peers and officers of the Crown, and to all the
chevaliers of the order, the governors and lieutenant-governors of the provinces (who were
to accompany the King), informing them of the Bed of Justice.  The Comte de Toulouse had been
to supper at the house of M. de Nevers, near Saint-Denis, and did not return until late into
the night.  The French and Swiss guards were under arms in various quarters; the watch, the
light horse, and the two companies of musketeers all ready in their barracks; the usual guard
at the Tuileries.

If I had slept but little during the last eight days, I slept still less that night, so near
to the most considerable events.  I rose before six o'clock, and shortly after received my
summons to the Bed of justice, on the back of which was a note that I was not to be awakened,
a piece of politeness due to the knowledge of the bearer, who was aware that this summons would
teach me nothing I did not know.  All the others had been awakened, surprised thereby to an
extent that may be imagined.

Towards eight o'clock in the morning a messenger from M. le Duc d'Orleans came to remind me
of the Regency Council at eight o'clock, and to attend it in my mantle.  I dressed myself in
black, because I had only that suit with a mantle, and another, a magnificent one in cloth
of gold, which I did not wish to wear lest it should cause the remark to be made, though much
out of season, that I wished to insult the Parliament and M. du Maine.  I took two gentlemen
with me in my coach, and I went in order to witness all that was to take place.  I was at the
same time full of fear, hope, joy, reflection, and mistrust of M. le Duc d'Orleans' weakness,
and all that might result from it.  I was also firmly resolved to do my best, whatever might
happen, but without appearing to know anything, and without eagerness, and I resolved to show
presence of mind, attention, circumspection, modesty, and much moderation.

Upon leaving my house I went to Valincourt, who lived behind the hotel of the Comte de Toulouse.
He was a very honourable man, of much intellect, moving among the best company, secretary-general
of the navy, devoted to the Comte de Toulouse ever since his early youth, and possessing all
his confidence.  I did not wish to leave the Comte de Toulouse in any personal fear, or expose
him to be led away by his brother.  I sent therefore for Valincourt, whom I knew intimately,
to come and speak to me.  He came half-dressed, terrified at the rumours flying over the town,
and eagerly asked me what they all meant.  I drew him close to me and said, "Listen attentively
to me, and lose not a word.  Go immediately to M. le Comte de Toulouse, tell him he may trust
in my word, tell him to be discreet, and that things are about to happen to others which may
displease him, but that not a hair of his head shall be touched.  I hope he will not have a
moment's uneasiness.  Go! and lose not an instant."

Valincourt held me in a tight embrace.  "Ah, Monsieur," said he, "we foresaw that at last there
would be a storm.  It is well merited, but not by M. le Comte, who will be eternally obliged
to you."  And, he went immediately with my message to the Comte de Toulouse, who never forgot
that I saved him from the fall of his brother.

CHAPTER XCII

Arrived at the grand court of the Tuileries about eight o'clock without having remarked anything
extraordinary on the way.  The coaches of the Duc de Noailles, of Marechal de Villars, of Marechal
d'Huxelles, and of some others were already there.  I ascended without finding many people
about, and directed the two doors of the Salle des Gardes, which were closed, to be opened.
The Bed of justice was prepared in the grand ante- chamber, where the King was accustomed to
eat.  I stopped a short time to see if everything was in proper order, and felicitated Fontanieu
in a low voice.  He said to me in the same manner that he had arrived at the Tuileries with
his workmen and materials at six o'clock in the morning; that everything was so well constructed
and put up that the King had not heard a sound; that his chief valet de chambre, having left
the room for some commission about seven o'clock in the morning, had been much astonished upon
seeing this apparatus; that the Marechal de Villeroy had only heard of it through him, and
that the seats had been erected with such little noise that nobody had heard anything.  After
having well examined everything with my eyes I advanced to the throne, then being finished;
wishing to enter the second ante-chamber, some servants came to me, saying that I could not
go in, all being locked up.  I asked where I was to await the assembling of the Council, and
was admitted to a room upstairs, where I found a good number of people already congregated.

After chatting some time with the Keeper of the Seals, the arrival of M. le Duc d'Orleans was
announced.  We finished what we had to say, and went downstairs separately, not wishing to
be seen together.

The Council was held in a room which ever since the very hot weather the King had slept in.
The hangings of his bed, and of the Marechal de Villeroy's were drawn back.  The Council table
was placed at the foot of one of the beds.  Upon entering the adjoining chamber I found many
people whom the first rumours of such an unexpected occurrence had no doubt led there, and
among the rest some of the Council.  M. le Duc d'Orleans was in the midst of a crowd at the
end of the room, and, as I afterwards learned, had just seen the Duc du Maine without speaking
to him, or being spoken to.

After a passing glance upon this crowd I entered the Council chamber.  I found scattered there
the majority of those who composed the Council with serious and troubled looks, which increased
my seriousness.  Scarcely anybody spoke; and each, standing or seated here and there, kept
himself in his place.  The better to examine all, I joined nobody.  A moment after M. le Duc
d'Orleans entered with a gay, easy, untroubled air, and looked smilingly upon the company.
I considered this of good augury. Immediately afterwards I asked him his news.  He replied
aloud that he was tolerably well; then approaching my ear, added that, except when aroused
to give his orders, he had slept very well, and that he was determined to hold firm.  This
infinitely pleased me, for it seemed to me by his manner that he was in earnest, and I briefly
exhorted him to remain so.

Came, afterwards, M. le Duc, who pretty soon approached me, and asked if I augured well from
the Regent, and if he would remain firm.  M. le Duc had an air of exceeding gaiety, which was
perceptible to those behind the scenes.  The Duc de Noailles devoured everything with his eyes,
which sparkled with anger because he had not been initiated into the secret of this great day.

In due time M. du Maine appeared in his mantle, entering by the King's little door.  Never
before had he made so many or such profound reverences as he did now--though he was not usually
very stingy of them-- then standing alone, resting upon his stick near the Council table, he
looked around at everybody.  Then and there, being in front of him, with the table between
us, I made him the most smiling bow I had ever given him, and did it with extreme volupty.
He repaid me in the same coin, and continued to fix his eyes upon everybody in turn; his face
agitated, and nearly always speaking to himself.

A few minutes after M. le Duc came to me, begging me to exhort M. le Duc d'Orleans to firmness:
then the Keeper of the Seals came forth for the same purpose.  M. le Duc d'Orleans himself
approached me to say something a moment afterwards, and he had no sooner quitted my side than
M. le Duc, impatient and troubled, came to know in what frame of mind was the Regent.  I told
him good in a monosyllable, and sent him away.

I know not if these movements, upon which all eyes were fixed, began to frighten the Duc du
Maine, but no sooner had M. le Duc joined the Regent, after quitting me, than the Duc du Maine
went to speak to the Marechal de Villeroy and to D'Effiat, both seated at the end of the room
towards the King's little door, their backs to the wall.  They did not rise for the Duc du
Maine, who remained standing opposite, and quite near them, all three holding long discourses,
like people who deliberate with embarrassment and surprise, as it appeared to me by the faces
of the two I saw, and which I tried not to lose sight of.

During this time M. le Duc d'Orleans and M. le Duc spoke to each other near the window and
the ordinary entrance door; the Keeper of the Seals, who was near, joined them.  At this moment
M. le Duc turned round a little, which gave me the opportunity to make signs to him of the
other conference, which he immediately saw.  I was alone, near the Council table, very attentive
to everything, and the others scattered about began to become more so.  A little while after
the Duc du Maine placed himself where he had been previously: the two he quitted remained as
before. M. du Maine was thus again in front of me, the table between us: I observed that he
had a bewildered look, and that he spoke to himself more than ever.

The Comte de Toulouse arrived as the Regent had just quitted the two persons with whom he had
been talking.  The Comte de Toulouse was in his mantle, and saluted the company with a grave
and meditative manner, neither accosting nor accosted: M. le Duc d'Orleans found himself in
front of him and turned towards me, although at some distance, as though to testify his trouble.
I bent my head a little while looking fixedly at him, as though to say, "Well, what then?"

