J.M. Woolsey, born in 1796; graduated from Yale; capitalist, Cleveland.

Sarah C. Woolsey is "Susan Coolidge."

Mrs. Daniel C. Grilman, wife of the president of Johns Hopkins University, and formerly president
of University of California.

Samuel Carmalt, wealthy land owner in Pennsylvania.

Dr. W.W. Woolsey, born in 1831; graduated from Yale; physician, Dubuque, Ia.

T.B. Woolsey, flour merchant, New York.

Samuel W. Johnson, graduated from Princeton and Harvard law school; New York lawyer.

Woolsey Johnson, M.D., graduated from Princeton and New York Medical College; physician, New York.

Theodore S. Woolsey, graduated from Yale; professor in Yale.

Charles F. Johnson, graduated from Yale; professor United States Naval Academy, Annapolis.

W.W. Johnson, graduated from Yale; professor Kenyon College.

J.H. Rathburn, lawyer, Utica.

J.O. Pease, merchant, Philadelphia.

A.S. Dwight, lieutenant U.S.A.; killed at Petersburg.

George P.B. Dwight, New York custom house.

Henry E. Dwight, born in 1813; Southern planter.

Theodore Woolsey Porter, b. 1799, g. Yale 1819, eminent teacher; principal of Washington Institute,
New York City.

Timothy Dwight Porter, M.D., b. 1797, g. Yale 1816, was in the New York senate and a successful
practitioner.

Imperfectly as these names represent the achievements of the descendants of Mary Edwards Dwight
they do hint strongly at the vigor, character and scholarship for which the family of Jonathan
Edwards stands in American life.

There is another large family of Dwights, direct descendants of Jonathan Edwards, through his
granddaughter, Rhoda Edwards, but these are not, of course, included in this list of Mary's
descendants. Many of these are eminent men, and reference is here made to their omission, lest
some one should think the facts regarding them were not gathered.

A MODERN INSTANCE

It was known that John Eliot Woodbridge removed to Youngstown, O., about one hundred years
ago, but no trace of him was found until these chapters were in type when it appeared that
this undiscovered remainder was a most important branch of the family.

Congressman R.W. Taylor, of Ohio, chairman of the committee to pass upon the case of Mr. Roberts
of Utah, is a descendant of Jonathan Edwards through John Eliot Woodbridge. His masterly treatment
of the case is recognized throughout the country. Here is what the "Detroit Free Press" said
of him at the time of the investigation:

"In appearance he is not of the robust order of statesmen. With fair face, shoulders that he
has always permitted to droop, indispensable eyeglasses, and hands that nine women out of ten
would envy, modest demeanor, and kindly instincts, he is among the last of men that a casual
observer would pick as fitting leaders where nerve, aggressiveness, and fearless determination
must be joined with an ability to give and take in legal controversy.

"But this passing judgment would be at widest variance with the truth. College mates of Taylor
will recall the deceptiveness of this outward appearance. It concealed muscles of steel and
a will that had only to be right in order to be invincible. He was the peer of any amateur
baseball catcher in his day, and held the same enviable place as a student of the classics.
He was the strong man for the D.K.E. initiations, and took the same rank in all scholastic
competitions."

Dr. Timothy Woodbridge, of Youngstown, was a graduate of the medical college of Philadelphia,
and was one of the eminent physicians of Eastern Ohio. His grandson, Benjamin Warner Wells,
of Chicago, was a graduate of Annapolis naval academy. He was Admiral Schley's flag secretary
in the engagement at Santiago. Dr. John Eliot Woodbridge, Cleveland, is an eminent specialist
in typhoid fever cases. Robert Walker Taylor was comptroller of the United States treasury
for fifteen years.