TRAITS AND STORIES OF THE IRISH PEASANTRY

BY WILLIAM CARLETON

PART IV.

CONTENTS:

Phil Purcel, The Pig-Driver.

The Geography Of An Irish Oath.

The Lianhan Shee.

PHIL PURCEL, THE PIG-DRIVER.

Phil Purcel was a singular character, for he was never married; but notwithstanding his singularity,
no man ever possessed, for practical purposes, a more plentiful stock of duplicity. All his
acquaintances knew that Phil was a knave of the first water, yet was he decidedly a general
favorite. Now as we hate mystery ourselves, we shall reveal the secret of this remarkable popularity;
though, after all, it can scarcely be called so, for Phil was not the first cheat who has been
popular in his day. The cause of his success lay simply in this; that he never laughed; and,
none of our readers need be told, that the appearance of a grave cheat in Ireland is an originality
which almost runs up into a miracle. This gravity induced every one to look upon him as a phenomenon.
The assumed simplicity of his manners was astonishing, and the ignorance which he feigned,
so apparently natural, that it was scarcely possible for the most keen-sighted searcher into
human motives to detect him. The only way of understanding the man was to deal with him: if,
after that, you did not comprehend him thoroughly, the fault was not Phil's, but your own.
Although not mirthful himself, he was the cause of mirth in others; for, without ever smiling
at his own gains, he contrived to make others laugh at their losses. His disposition, setting
aside laughter, was strictly anomalous. The most incompatible, the most unamalgamatible, and
the most uncomeatable qualities that ever refused to unite in the same individual, had no scruple
at all to unite in Phil. But we hate metaphysics, which we leave to the mechanical philosophers,
and proceed to state that Phil was a miser, which is the best explanation we can give of his
gravity.

Ireland, owing to the march of intellect, and the superiority of modern refinement, has been
for some years past, and is at present, well supplied with an abundant variety of professional
men, every one of whom will undertake, for proper considerations, to teach us Irish all manner
of useful accomplishments. The drawing-master talks of his profession; the dancing-master of
his profession; the fiddler, tooth-drawer, and corn-cutter (who by the way, reaps a richer
harvest than we do), since the devil has tempted the schoolmaster to go abroad, are all practising
in his absence, as professional men.

Now-Phil must be included among this class of grandiloquent gentlemen, for he entered life
as a Professor of Pig-driving; and it is but justice towards him to assert, that no corn-cutter
of them all ever elevated his profession so high as Phil did that in which he practised. In
fact, he raised it to the most exalted pitch of improvement of which it was then susceptible;
or to use the cant of the day, he soon arrived at "the head of his profession."

In Phil's time, however, pig-driving was not so general, nor had it made such rapid advances
as in modern times. It was, then, simply, pig-driving, unaccompanied by the improvements of
poverty, sickness, and famine. Political economy had not then taught the people how to be poor
upon the most scientific principles; free trade had not shown the nation the most approved
plan of reducing itself to the lowest possible state of distress; nor liberalism enabled the
working classes to scoff at religion, and wisely to stop at the very line that lies between
outrage and rebellion. Many errors and inconveniences, now happily exploded, were then in existence.
The people, it is true, were somewhat attached to their landlords, but still they were burdened
with the unnecessary appendages of good coats and stout shoes; were tolerably industrious,
and had the mortification of being able to pay their rents, and feed in comfort. They were
not, as they are now, free from new coats and old prejudices, nor improved by the intellectual
march of politics and poverty. When either a man or a nation starves, it is a luxury to starve
in an enlightened manner; and nothing is more consolatory to a person acquainted with public
rights and constitutional privileges, than to understand those liberal principles upon which
he fasts and goes naked.

From all we have said, the reader sees clearly that pig-driving did not then proceed upon so
extensive a scale as it does at present. The people, in fact, killed many of them for their
own use; and we know not how it happened, but political ignorance and good bacon kept them
in more flesh and comfort than those theories which have since succeeded so well in introducing
the science of starvation as the basis of national prosperity. Irishmen are frequently taxed
with extravagance, in addition to their other taxes; but we should be glad to know what people
in Europe reduce economy in the articles of food and clothing to such close practice as they do.

Be this as it may, there was, in Ireland, an old breed of swine, which is now nearly extinct,
except in some remote parts of the country, where they are still useful in the hunting season,
particularly if dogs happen to be scarce.* They were a tall, loose species, with legs of an
unusual length, with no flesh, short ears, as if they had been cropped for sedition, and with
long faces of a highly intellectual cast. They were also of such activity that few greyhounds
could clear a ditch or cross a field with more agility or speed. Their backs formed a rainbow
arch, capable of being contracted or extended to an inconceivable degree; and their usual rate
of travelling in droves was at mail-coach speed, or eight Irish miles an hour, preceded by
an outrider to clear the way, whilst their rear was brought up by another horseman, going at
a three-quarter gallop.

     * We assure John Bull, on the authority of Purcel
     himself, that this is a fact.

In the middle of summer, when all nature reposed under the united influence of heat and dust,
it was an interesting sight to witness a drove of them sweeping past, like a whirlwind, in
a cloud of their own raising; their sharp and lengthy outlines dimly visible through the shining
haze, like a flock of antelopes crossing the deserts of the East.

But alas! for those happy days! This breed is now a curiosity--few specimens of it remaining
except in the mountainous parts of the country, whither these lovers of liberty, like the free
natives of the back settlements of America, have retired to avoid the encroachments of civilization,
and exhibit their Irish antipathy to the slavish comforts of steamboat navigation, and the
relaxing luxuries of English feeding.

Indeed, their patriotism, as evinced in an attachment to Ireland and Irish habits, was scarcely
more remarkable than their sagacity. There is not an antiquary among the members of that learned
and useful body, the Irish Academy, who can boast such an intimate knowledge of the Irish language
in all its shades of meaning and idiomatic beauty, as did this once flourishing class of animals.
Nor were they confined to the Irish tongue alone, many of them understood English too; and
it was said of those that belonged to a convent, the members of which, in their intercourse
with each other, spoke only in Latin, that they were tolerable masters of that language, and
refused to leave a potato field or plot of cabbages, except when addressed in it. To the English
tongue, however, they had a deep-rooted antipathy; whether it proceeded from the national feeling,
or the fact of its not being sufficiently guttural, I cannot say; but be this as it may, it
must be admitted that they were excellent Irish scholars, and paid a surprising degree of deference
and obedience to whatever was addressed to them in their own language. In Munster, too, such
of them as belonged to the hedge-schoolmasters were good proficients in Latin; but it is on
a critical knowledge of their native tongue that I take my stand. On this point they were unrivalled
by the most learned pigs or antiquaries of their day; none of either class possessing, at that
period, such a knowledge of Irish manners, nor so keen a sagacity in tracing out Irish roots.

Their education, it is true, was not neglected, and their instructors had the satisfaction
of seeing that it was not lost. Nothing could present a finer display of true friendship founded
upon a sense of equality, mutual interest, and good-will, than the Irishman and his pig. The
Arabian and his horse are proverbial; but had our English neighbors known as much of Ireland
as they did of Arabia, they would have found as signal instances of attachment subsisting between
the former as between the latter; and, perhaps, when the superior comforts of an Arabian hut
are contrasted with the squalid poverty of an Irish cabin, they would have perceived a heroism
and a disinterestedness evinced by the Irish parties, that would have struck them with greater
admiration.

The pigs, however, of the present day are a fat, gross, and degenerate breed; and more like
well-fed aldermen, than Irish pigs of the old school. They are, in fact, a proud, lazy, carnal
race, entirely of the earth, earthy. John Bull assures us it is one comfort, however, that
we do not eat, but ship them out of the country; yet, after all, with, great respect to John,
it is not surprising that we should repine a little on thinking of the good old times of sixty
years since, when every Irishman could kill his own pig, and eat it when he pleased. We question
much whether any measure that might make the eating of meat compulsory upon us, would experience
from Irishmen a very decided opposition. But it is very condescending in John to eat our beef
and mutton; and as he happens to want both, it is particularly disinterested in him to encourage
us in the practice of self-denial. It is possible, however, that we may ultimately refuse to
banquet by proxy on our own provisions; and that John may not be much longer troubled to eat
for us in that capacity.

The education of an Irish pig, at the time of which we write, was an important consideration
to an Irishman. He, and his family, and his pig, like the Arabian and his horse, all slept
in the same bed; the pig generally, for the sake of convenience, next the "stock" (* at the
outside). At meals the pig usually was stationed at the serahag, or potato-basket; where the
only instances of bad temper he ever displayed broke out in petty and unbecoming squabbles
with the younger branches of the family. Indeed, if he ever descended from his high station
as a member of the domestic circle, it was upon these occasions, when, with a want of dignity,
accounted for only by the grovelling motive of self-interest, he embroiled himself in a series
of miserable feuds and contentions about scraping the pot, or carrying off from the jealous
urchins about him more than came to his share. In these heart-burnings about the good things
of this world, he was treated with uncommon forbearance: in his owner he always had a friend,
from whom, when he grunted out his appeal to him, he was certain of receiving redress: "Barney,
behave, avick: lay down the potstick, an' don't be batin' the pig, the crathur."

In fact, the pig was never mentioned but with this endearing epithet of "crathur" annexed.
"Barney, go an' call home the pig, the crathur, to his dinner, before it gets cowld an him."
"Barney, go an' see if you can see the pig, the crathur, his buckwhist will soon be ready."
"Barney, run an' dhrive the pig, the crathur, out of Larry Neil's phatie-field: an', Barney,
whisper, a bouchal bawn, don't run too hard, Barney, for fraid you'd lose your breath. What
if the crathur does get a taste o' the new phaties--small blame to him for the same!"

In short, whatever might have been the habits of the family, such were those of the pig. The
latter was usually out early in the morning to take exercise, and the unerring regularity with
which he returned at mealtime gave sufficient proof that procuring an appetite was a work of
supererogation on his part. If he came before the meal was prepared, his station was at the
door, which they usually shut to keep him out of the way until it should be ready. In the meantime,
so far as a forenoon serenade and an indifferent voice could go, his powers of melody were
freely exercised on the outside. But he did not stop here: every stretch of ingenuity was tried
by which a possibility of gaining admittance could be established. The hat and rags were repeatedly
driven in from the windows, which from practice and habit he was enabled to approach on his
hind legs; a cavity was also worn by the frequent grubbings of his snout under the door, the
lower part of which was broken away by the sheer strength of his tusks, so that he was enabled,
by thrusting himself between the bottom of it and the ground, to make a most unexpected appearance
on the hearth, before his presence was at all convenient or acceptable.

But, independently of these two modes of entrance, i. e., the door and window, there was also
a third, by which he sometimes scrupled not to make a descent upon the family. This was by
the chimney. There are many of the Irish cabins built for economy's sake against slopes in
the ground, so that the labor of erecting either a gable or side-wall is saved by the perpendicular
bank that remains after the site of the house is scooped away. Of the facilities presented
by this peculiar structure, the pig never failed to avail himself. He immediately mounted the
roof (through which, however, he sometimes took an unexpected flight), and traversing it with
caution, reached the chimney, into which he deliberately backed himself, and with no small
share of courage, went down precisely as the northern bears are said to descend the trunks
of trees during the winter, but with far different motives.

In this manner he cautiously retrograded downwards with a hardihood, which set furze bushes,
brooms, tongs, and all other available weapons of the cabin at defiance. We are bound, however,
to declare, that this mode of entrance, which was only resorted to when every other failed,
was usually received by the cottager and his family with a degree of mirth and good-humor that
were not lost upon the sagacity of the pig. In order to save him from being scorched, which
he deserved for his temerity, they usually received him in a creel, often in a quilt, and sometimes
in the tattered blanket, or large pot, out of which he looked with a humorous conception of
his own enterprise, that was highly diverting. We must admit, however, that he was sometimes
received with the comforts of a hot poker, which Paddy pleasantly called, "givin' him a warm
welcome."

Another trait in the character of these animals, was the utter scorn with which they treated
all attempts to fatten them. In fact, the usual consequences of good feeding were almost inverted
in their case; and although I might assert that they became leaner in proportion to what they
received, yet I must confine myself to truth, by stating candidly that this was not the fact;
that there was a certain state of fleshlessness to which they arrived, but from which they
neither advanced nor receded by good feeding or bad. At this point, despite of all human ingenuity,
they remained stationary for life, received the bounty afforded them with a greatness of appetite
resembling the fortitude of a brave man, which rises in energy according to the magnitude of
that which it has to encounter. The truth is, they were scandalous hypocrites; for with the
most prodigious capacity for food, they were spare as philosophers, and fitted evidently more
for the chase than the sty; rather to run down a buck or a hare for the larder, than to have
a place in it themselves. If you starved them, they defied you to diminish their flesh; and
if you stuffed them like aldermen, they took all they got, but disdained to carry a single
ounce more than if you gave them whey thickened with water. In short, they gloried in maceration
and liberty; were good Irish scholars, sometimes acquainted with Latin; and their flesh, after
the trouble of separating it from a superfluity of tough skin, was excellent venison so far
as it went.

Now Phil Purcel, whom we will introduce more intimately to the reader by and by, was the son
of a man who always kept a pig.

His father's house had a small loft, to which the ascent was by a step-ladder through a door
in the inside gable. The first good thing ever Phil was noticed for he said upon the following
occasion. His father happened to be called upon, one morning before breakfast, by his landlord,
who it seems occasionally visited his tenantry to encourage, direct, stimulate, or reprove
them, as the case might require. Phil was a boy then, and sat on the hob in the corner, eyeing
the landlord and his father during their conversation. In the mean time the pig came in, and
deliberately began to ascend the ladder with an air of authority that marked him as one in
the exercise of an established right. The landlord was astonished at seeing the animal enter
the best room in the house and could not help expressing his surprise to old Purcel:

"Why, Purcel, is your pig in the habit of treating himself to the comforts of your best room?"

"The pig is it, the crathur? Why, your haner," said Purcel, after a little hesitation, "it
sometimes goes up of a mornin' to waken the childhre, particularly when the buckwhist happens
to be late. It doesn't like to be waitin'; and sure none of us likes to be kept from the male's
mate, your haner, when we want it, no more than it, the crathur!"

"But I wonder your wife permits so filthy an animal to have access to her rooms in this manner."

"Filthy!" replied Mrs. Purcel, who felt herself called upon to defend the character of the
pig, as well as her own, "why, one would think, sir, that any crathur that's among Christyen
childhre, like one o' themselves, couldn't be filthy. I could take it to my dyin' day, that
there's not a claner or dacenter pig in the kingdom, than the same pig. It never misbehaves,
the crathur, but goes out, as wise an' riglar, jist by a look, an' that's enough for it, any
day--a single look, your haner, the poor crathur!"

"I think," observed Phil, from the hob, "that nobody has a betther right to the run of the
house, whedher up stairs or down stairs, than him that pays the rint."

"Well said, my lad!" observed the landlord, laughing at the quaint ingenuity of Phil's defence.
"His payment of the rent is the best defence possible, and no doubt should cover a multitude
of his errors."

"A multitude of his shins, you mane, sir," said Phil, "for thruth he's all shin."

In fact, Phil from his infancy had an uncommon attachment to these animals, and by a mind naturally
shrewd and observing, made himself as intimately acquainted with their habits and instincts,
and the best modes of managing them, as ever the celebrated Cahir na Cappul* did with those
of the horse. Before he was fifteen, he could drive the most vicious and obstinate pig as quietly
before him as a lamb; yet no one knew how, nor by what means he had gained the secret that
enabled him to do it. Whenever he attended a fair, his time was principally spent among the
pigs, where he stood handling, and examining, and pretending to buy them, although he seldom
had half-a-crown in his pocket. At length, by hoarding up such small sums as he could possibly
lay his hand on, he got together the price of a "slip," which he bought, reared, and educated
in a manner that did his ingenuity great credit. When this was brought to its ne plus ultra
of fatness, he sold it, and purchased two more, which he fed in the same way. On disposing
of these, he made a fresh purchase, and thus proceeded, until, in the course of a few years,
he was a well-known pig-jobber.

     * I subjoin from Townsend's Survey of the county of
     Cork a short but authentic account of this most
     extraordinary character:--"James Sullivan was a native
     of the county of Cork, and an awkward ignorant rustic
     of the lowest class, generally known by the appellation
     of the Whisperer, and his profession was horse-
     breaking. The credulity of the vulgar bestowed that
     epithet upon him, from an opinion that he communicated
     his wishes to the animal by means of a whisper; and the
     singularity of his method gave some color to the
     superstitious belief. As far as the sphere of his
     control extended, the boast of Veni, Vidi, Vici, was
     more justly claimed by James Sullivan, than by Caesar,
     or even Bonaparte himself. How his art was acquired, or
     in what it consisted, is likely to remain for ever
     unknown, as he has lately left the world without
     divulging it. His son, who follows the same occupation,
     possesses but a small portion of the art, having either
     never learned its true secret, or being incapable of
     putting it in practice. The wonder of his skill
     consisted in the short time requisite to accomplish his
     design, which was performed in private, and without any
     apparent means of coercion. Every description of horse,
     or even mule, whether previously broke, or unhandled,
     whatever their peculiar vices or ill habits might have
     been, submitted, without show of resistance, to the
     magical influence of his art, and, in the short space
     of half an hour, became gentle and tractable. The
     effect, though instantaneously produced, was generally
     durable. Though more submissive to him than to others,
     yet they seemed to have acquired a docility, unknown
     before. When sent for to tame a vicious horse, he
     directed the stable in which he and the object of his
     experiment were placed, to be shut, with orders not to
     open the door until a signal given. After a tete-a-
     tete between him and the horse for about half an hour,
     during which little or no bustle was heard, the signal
     was made; and upon opening the door, the horse was
     seen, lying down, and the man by his side, playing
     familiarly with him, like a child with a puppy dog.
     From that time he was found perfectly willing to submit
     to discipline, however repugnant to his nature before.
     Some saw his skill tried on a horse, which could never
     be brought to stand for a smith to shoe him. The day
     after Sullivan's half hour lecture, I went, not without
     some incredulity, to the smith's shop, with many other
     curious spectators, where we were eye-witnesses of the
     complete success of his art. This, too, had been a
     troop-horse; and it was supposed, not without reason,
     that after regimental discipline had failed, no other
     would be found availing. I observed that the animal
     seemed afraid, whenever Sullivan either spoke or looked
     at him. How that extraordinary ascendancy could have
     been obtained, it is difficult to conjecture, in common
     eases, this mysterious preparation was unnecessary. He
     seemed to possess an instinctive power of inspiring
     awe, the result, perhaps, of natural intrepidity, in
     which, I believe, a great part of his art consisted;
     though the circumstance of his tete-a-tete shows, that,
     upon particular occasions, something more must have
     been added to it. A faculty like this would, in other
     hands, have made a fortune, and great offers have been
     made to him for the exercise of his art abroad; but
     hunting, and attachment to his native soil, were his
     ruling passions. He lived at home, in the style most
     agreeable to his disposition, and nothing could induce
     him to quit Dunhalow and the fox-hounds."

Phil's journeys as a pig-driver to the leading seaport towns nearest him, were always particularly
profitable. In Ireland, swine are not kept in sties, as they are among English feeders, but
permitted, to go at liberty through pasture fields, commons, and along roadsides, where they
make up as well as they can for the scanty pittance allowed them at home during meal-times.
We do not, however, impeach Phil's honesty; but simply content ourselves with saying, that
when his journey was accomplished, he mostly found the original number with which he had set
out increased by three or four, and sometimes by half a dozen. Pigs in general resemble each
other, and it surely was not Phil's fault if a stray one, feeding on the roadside or common,
thought proper to join his drove and see the world. Phil's object, we presume, was only to
take care that his original number was not diminished, its increase being a matter in which
he felt little concern. He now determined to take a professional trip to England, and that
this might be the more productive, he resolved to purchase a lot of the animals we have been
describing. No time was lost in this speculation. The pigs were bought up as cheaply as possible,
and Phil sat out, for the first time in his life, to try with what success he could measure
his skill against that of a Yorkshireman. On this occasion, he brought with him a pet, which
he had with considerable pains trained up for purposes hereafter to be explained.

There was nothing remarkable in the passage, unless that every creature on board was sea-sick,
except the pigs; even to them, however, the change was a disagreeable one; for to be pent up
in the hold of a ship was a deprivation of liberty, which, fresh as they were from their native
hills, they could not relish. They felt, therefore, as patriots, a loss of freedom, but not
a whit of appetite; for, in truth, of the latter no possible vicissitude short of death could
deprive them.

Phil, however, with an assumed air of simplicity absolutely stupid, disposed of them to a Yorkshire
dealer at about twice the value they would have brought in Ireland, though as pigs went in
England it was low enough. He declared that they had been fed on tip-top feeding: which was
literally true, as he afterwards admitted that the tops of nettles and potato stalks constituted
the only nourishment they had got for three weeks before.

The Yorkshireman looked with great contempt upon what he considered a miserable essay to take
him in.

"What a fule this Hirishmun mun bea;" said he, "to think to teake me in! Had he said that them
there Hirish swoine were badly feade, I'd ha' thought it fairish enough on un; but to seay
that they was oll weal feade on tip-top feeadin'! Nea, nea! I knaws weal enough that they was
noat feade on nothin' at oll, which meakes them loak so poorish! Howsomever, I shall fatten
them. I'se warrant--I'se warrant I shall!"

When driven home to sties somewhat more comfortable than the cabins of unfortunate Irishmen,
they were well supplied with food which would have been very often considered a luxury by poor
Paddy himself, much less by his pigs.

"Measter," said the man who had seen them fed, "them there Hirish pigs ha' not feasted nout
for a moonth yet: they feade like nout I seed o' my laife!!"

"Ay! ay!" replied the master, "I'se warrant they'll soon fatten--I'se warrant they shall, Hodge--they
be praime feeders--I'se warrant they shall; and then, Hodge, we've bit the soft Hirishmun."

Hodge gave a knowing look at his master, and grinned at this observation.

The next morning Hodge repaired to the sties to see how they were thriving; when, to his great
consternation, he found the feeding-troughs clean as if they had been washed, and, not a single
Irish pig to be seen or heard about the premises; but to what retreat the animals could have
betaken themselves, was completely beyond his comprehension. He scratched his head, and looked
about him in much perplexity.

"Dang un!" he exclaimed, "I never seed nout like this."

He would have proceeded in a strain of cogitation equally enlightened, had not a noise of shouting,
alarm, and confusion in the neighborhood, excited his attention. He looked about him, and to
his utter astonishment saw that some extraordinary commotion prevailed, that the country was
up, and the hills alive with people, who ran, and shouted, and wheeled at full flight in all
possible directions. His first object was to join the crowd, which he did as soon as possible,
and found that the pigs he had shut up the preceding night in sties whose enclosures were at
least four feet high, had cleared them like so many chamois, and were now closely pursued by
the neighbors, who rose en masse to hunt down and secure such dreadful depredators.

The waste and mischief they had committed in one night were absolutely astonishing. Bean and
turnip fields, and vegetable enclosures of all descriptions, kitchen-gardens, corn-fields,
and even flower-gardens, were rooted up and destroyed with an appearance of system which would
have done credit to Terry Alt himself.

Their speed was the theme of every tongue. Hedges were taken in their flight, and cleared in
a style that occasioned the country people to turn up their eyes, and scratch their heads in
wonder. Dogs of all degrees bit the dust, and were caught up dead in stupid amazement by their
owners, who began to doubt whether or not these extraordinary animals were swine at all. The
depredators in the meantime had adopted the Horatian style of battle. Whenever there was an
ungenerous advantage taken in the pursuit, by slipping dogs across or before their path, they
shot off, at a tangent through the next crowd; many of whom they prostrated in their flight;
by this means they escaped the dogs until the latter were somewhat exhausted, when, on finding
one in advance of the rest, they turned, and, with standing bristles and burning tusks, fatally
checked their pursuer in his full career. To wheel and fly until another got in advance, was
then the plan of fight; but, in fact the conflict was conducted on the part of the Irish pigs
with a fertility of expediency that did credit to their country, and established for those
who displayed it, the possession of intellect far superior to that of their opponents. The
pigs now began to direct their course towards the sties in which they had been so well fed
the night before. This being their last flight they radiated towards one common centre, with
a fierceness and celerity that occasioned the woman and children to take shelter within doors.
On arriving at the sties, the ease with which they shot themselves over the four-feet walls
was incredible. The farmer had caught the alarm, and just came out in time to witness their
return; he stood with his hands driven down into the pockets of his red, capacious waistcoat,
and uttered not a word. When the last of them came bounding into the sty, Hodge approached,
quite breathless and exhausted:

"Oh, measter," he exclaimed, "these be not Hirish pigs at oll, they be Hirish devils; and yau
mun ha' bought 'em fra a cunning mon!"

"Hodge," replied his master, "I'se be bit--I'se heard feather talk about un. That breed's true
Hirish: but I'se try and sell 'em to Squoire Jolly to hunt wi' as beagles, for he wants a pack.
They do say all the swoine that the deevils were put into ha' been drawn; but for my peart,
I'se sure that some on un must ha' escaped to Hireland."

Phil during the commotion excited by his knavery in Yorkshire, was traversing the country,
in order to dispose of his remaining pig; and the manner in which he effected his first sale
of it was as follows:

A gentleman was one evening standing with some laborers by the wayside when a tattered Irishman,
equipped in a pair of white dusty brogues, stockings without feet, old patched breeches, a
bag slung across his shoulder, his coarse shirt lying open about a neck tanned by the sun into
a reddish yellow, a hat nearly the color of the shoes, and a hay rope tied for comfort about
his waist; in one hand he also held a straw rope, that depended from the hind leg of a pig
which he drove before him; in the other was a cudgel, by the assistance of which he contrived
to limp on after it, his two shoulder-blades rising and falling alternately with a shrugging
motion that indicated great fatigue.

When he came opposite where the gentleman stood he checked the pig, which instinctively commenced
feeding upon the grass by the edge of the road.

"Och," said he, wiping his brow with the cuff of his coat, "mavrone orth a muck,* but I'm kilt
wit you. Musha, Gad bless yer haner, an' maybe ye'd buy a slip of a pig fwhrom me, that has
my heart bruck, so she has, if ever any body's heart was bruck wit the likes of her; an' sure
so there was, no doubt, or I wouldn't be as I am wid her. I'll give her a dead bargain, sir;
for it's only to get her aff av my hands I'm wanting plase yer haner--husth amuck--husth, a
veehone!** Be asy, an' me in conwersation wid his haner here!"

     * My sorrow on you for a pig.

     ** Silence pig! Silence, you pig! Silence, you
     vagabond!

"You are an Irishman?" the gentleman inquired.

"I am, sir, from Connaught, yer haner, an' ill sell the crathur dag cheap, all out. Asy, you
thief!"

"I don't want the pig, my good fellow," replied the Englishman, without evincing curiosity
enough to inquire how he came to have such a commodity for sale.

"She'd be the darlint in no time wid you, sir; the run o' your kitchen 'ud make her up a beauty,
your haner, along wit no trouble to the sarvints about sweepin' it, or any thing. You'd only
have to lay down the potato-basket on the flure, or the misthress, Gad bless her, could do
it, an' not lave a crumblin' behind her, besides sleepin, your haner, in the carner beyant,
if she'd take the throuble."

The sluggish phlegm of the Englisman was stirred up a little by the twisted, and somewhat incomprehensible
nature of these instructions.

"How far do you intend to proceed tonight, Paddy?" said he.

"The sarra one o' myself knows, plaze yer haner: sure we've an ould sayin' of our own in Ireland
beyant--that he's a wise man can I tell how far he'll go, sir, till he comes to his journey's
ind. I'll give this crathur to you at more nor her value, yer haner."

"More!--why the man knows not what he's saying," observed the gentleman; "less you mean, I
suppose, Paddy?"

"More or less, sir: you'll get her a bargain; an' Gad bless you, sir!"

"But it is a commodity which I don't want at present. I am very well stocked with pigs, as
it is. Try elsewhere."

"She'd flog the counthry side, sir; an' if the misthress herself, sir, 'ud shake the wishp
o' sthraw fwor her in the kitchen, sir, near the whoire. Yer haner could spake to her about
it; an' in no time put a knife into her whin you plazed. In regard o' the other thing, sir--she's
like a Christyeen, yer haner, an' no throuble, sir, if you'd be seein' company or any thing."

"It's an extraordinary pig, this, of yours."

"It's no lie fwhor you, sir; she's as clane an' dacent a crathur, sir! Och, if the same pig
'ud come into the care o' the misthress, Gad bliss her! an' I'm sure if she has as much gudness
in her face as the hanerable dinnha ousahl (* gentleman)--the handsome gintleman she's married
upon!--you'll have her thrivin' bravely, sir, shartly, plase Gad, if you'll take courage. Will
I dhrive her up the aveny fwor you, sir? A good gintlewoman I'm sure, is the same misthriss!
Will I dhrive her up fwor you, sir? Shadh amuck--shadh dherin!"*

     *Behave yourself pig--behave, I say!

"No, no; I have no further time to lose; you may go forward."

"Thank your haner; is it whorid toarst the house abow, sir? I wouldn't be standin' up, sir,
wit you about a thrifle; an you'll have her, sir, fwhor any thing you plase beyant a pound,
yer haner; an' 'tis throwin' her away it is: but one can't be hard wit a rale gintleman any way."

"You only annoy me, man; besides I don't want the pig; you lose time; I don't want to buy it,
I repeat to you."

"Gad bliss you, sir--Gad bliss you. Maybe if I'd make up to the mishthress, yer haner! Thrath
she wouldn't turn the crathur from the place, in regard that the tindherness ow the feelin'
would come ower her--the rale gintlewoman, any way! 'Tis dag chape you have her at what I said,
sir; an' Gad bliss you!"

"Do you want to compel me to purchase it whether I will or no?"

"Thrath, it's whor next to nothin' I'm giv-in' her to you, sir; but sure you can make your
own price at any thing beyant a pound. Huerish amuck--sladh anish!--be asy, you crathur, sure
you're gettin' into good quarthers, any how--go into the hanerable English gintleman's kitchen,
an' God knows it's a pleasure to dale wit 'em. Och, the world's differ there is betuxt them,
an' our own dirty Irish buckeens, that 'ud shkin a bad skilleen, an' pay their debts wit the
remaindher. The gateman 'ud let me in, yer haner, an' I'll meet you at the big house, abow."

"Upon my honor this is a good jest," said the gentleman, absolutely teased into a compliance;
"you are forcing me to buy that which I don't want."

"Sure you will, sir; you'll want more nor that yit, please Gad, if you be spared. Come, amuck--come,
you crathur; faix you're in luck so you are--gettin' so good a place wit his haner, here, that
you won't know yourself shortly, plase God."

He immediately commenced driving his pig towards the gentleman's residence with such an air
of utter simplicity, as would have imposed upon any man not guided by direct inspiration. Whilst
he approached the house, its proprietor arrived there by another path a few minutes before
him, and, addressing his lady, said:

"My dear, will you come and look at a purchase which an Irishman has absolutely compelled me
to make? You had better come and see himself, too, for he is the greatest simpleton of an Irishman
I have ever met with."

The lady's curiosity was more easily excited than that of her husband. She not only came out,
but brought with her some ladies who had been on a visit, in order to hear the Irishman's brogue,
and to amuse themselves at his expense. Of the pig, too, it appeared she was determined to
know something.

"George, my love, is the pig also from Ireland?" 

EUMORFO .-- That same repeat myself. How could you sink into the center
of the earth?

Inicua .-- CREMATURGO! We were fooling everyone.

EUMORFO .-- This goes from dark brown. Three at the same time!

CREMATURGO .-- What can you claim for yourself?

.-- EUMORFO mute wonder.

Asclepigenia .-- I do not become silent or with reason or without it. In order to show you that
the reason I need, I will tell a parable, if you are quiet to hear it.

CREMATURGO .-- Account.

EUMORFO .-- I hear.

Asclepigenia. (A Proclus, who has been and is silent since it came.) And what do you say?

PROCLEAN .-- Nothing. I hear you too.

Asclepigenia .-- In the garden of this palace is a rose, which was almost dry and lost found
in sterile soil .-- What do you need? I said to myself to contemplate .-- Mulch, I replied. It is necessary
that corrupt substance that is absorbing mulch rose sap you must give invigorating freshness,
gala and elegance to its leaves and flowers. I covered then with Mulch the roots and the foot
of the tree, and the rose has budded and bloomed like a charm. The greens of the leaves is bright,
your roses are divine. The petals of these roses have on the color of dawn: the center looks golden
cup: the cup is honey. What being delicate, elegant, light, nice, consistent with the rose petals
you can play without withering, and suck the honey from the cup with the appropriate smoothness
and refinement? - An air, painted and cheerful Butterfly, I thought. And just as I had thought
and wanted, came the most gentle and playful butterfly I've seen in my life, and hovering around
the pink, rested on his breast, without skewing only the flexible stem, and Libo honey golden
cup. I noticed, however, that this was not enough.

Rose was clear exquisite fragrance, which was dissipated by the atmosphere
and the zephyr spreading their wings.

In the rose was also extraordinary beauty, reflecting the idea, perfection of forms, which contains
pure artistic thoughts. This can only understand intelligence.

Only the spirit can enjoy all this.

Thus, the butterfly has no intelligence or spirit, not even smell,
the rose was missing after the best.

Her clothes were worth more without end and without purpose.

Then I saw clearly that if the mulch and the Butterfly were essential for Rose, were more indispensable
even higher mind, spirit and conscience I understand and admire him. Apply now and you will
recognize my justification parable. I am the rose, thou Crematurgo, you mulch, you Eumorfo, butterfly,
and Proclus is nose sucking aroma and the mind that considers the beauty and dignity enjoyed it. What
fault Rose becomes that nothing is complete in this underworld? Pity is not achieved mulch,
butterfly, nose and mind in a single being! As Rose needed this and not was meeting, I had to
look separately.

CREMATURGO .-- I do not really Avenger. Not to be litter and nothing else. Farewell, ungrateful
(Exit)

EUMORFO .-- Nor I am resigned to be a butterfly unintelligent, especially when out of love I had
already put yours to study philosophy. Infamous Goodbye! (Exit)

SCENE XI.

Asclepigenia, Proclus.

Mulch and butterfly .-- Asclepigenia leave me. Do I abandon you too, Proclus mine?

PROCLEAN .-- I confess that my soul is shattered. Maybe I would do well to escape from your
side forever, but there is a force that keeps me close to you. In vain I wanted to spiritualize,
sanctify the ancient civilization, cheerful and fond of beauty, but light. No success, however,
to divorce her. I am of her. I'm hopelessly yours.

The embarrassing and hard disappointment not kill the love of my
heart to demolish the entire philosophical edifice with so much zeal
and I had raised arrogance.

I figure that falls on me the just punishment of pride spirit. The spirit turned away with
scorn of nature, wanted to rise atop the intelligence and facts; struggled to move beyond being
itself, aspired to be confused with the immutable principle of all being. The mystical union,
that I am therefore proud, was not illusion definitely unhealthy.

The indefinable principle of being, which I thought to join, and
which all claimed to be denied, was not: it was nothing.

My supposed identification with death he was selfish.

No death was generous of him who, loving life, knows how to give
for the triumph of a noble idea, for their country, for the happiness
of the beloved.

My itching to get lost in the A, absorbed, impersonal, that everything
is itself and nothing is the most monstrous perversion of the spirit.

Is not able to live and enjoy within the various and beautiful universe.

Is to create a mystique opposite of love. Mysticism refocuses my soul: love the spread. Point the
spirit of nature, what can you expect but what and I regret it now?

" Or the delusion that nothing takes the principle of being, or the
baseness, the lowering the impure rude and brutal appetite for material
pleasures, which has won the nature, in society and in every thought,
when the spirit leaves them.

In contrast, What value is the spirit that moves away from the real
world, believing and worshiping the divine worship to himself?

Or to resist the blows of misfortune more vulgar retained sufficient
vigor.

What will power I have?

I can only vile and cowardly resignation or die penalty here, as
nervous little woman.

What a shame! I can not. Alas!

(Proclus falls unconscious in the chair long.)

Atenais .-- Asclepigenia! Atenais! Attend! Oh calamity! Go, bring a bottle of essences. We
ran out of philosophy! There is no longer possible philosophy. Since there are only positive
sciences and prosaic. I killed my philosopher. (He leans over him and embraced him with the
greatest tenderness.) Smells bad, but ... Is so wise! Is so good!

SCENE XII.

SUCH, ATESTAIS.

(Atenais Asclepigenia helps care for Proclus, using a jar of scents
to their noses)

Atenais .-- Calm down.

It's nothing. And regains consciousness.

Asclepigenia .-- I have been a good scare! Poor thing my dear! Too bad it gave me!

Proclus. (Gets up.) - Forgive me, friend.

It was a moment of weakness. (Repairing in Atenais.) Who is this dashing damsel?

Asclepigenia .-- It Atenais, daughter of Leonard.

PROCLEAN .-- The daughter of my learned and illustrious friend!

... Heaven bless you, Atenais!

Asclepigenia .-- Will you forgive me, Proclus?

PROCLEAN .-- Say no more of the past: forget it.

Asclepigenia .-- Will you live with me?

PROCLEAN .-- I do not want and I can live without you.

You are the star that illuminates with its gentle light the melancholy
evening of my life.

These soft white hands (making hers) sealed with love when they meet
my eyes to sleep the last sleep.

Contigo .-- Asclepigenia not miss neither wealth nor the body beautiful
... What else beauty that more wealth than the treasures of your soul?

If required, we will live to the fullest strait.

Something I can spoil the cook's hands and clothing remendarte. Elegance, dedication, the scent of
aristocratic distinction will vanish almost entirely when live miserably.

But what matter? Do I possess your soul and mine?

PROCLEAN .-- There has to be. Not consent to be lost or deteriorate even a spark or an atom
of all the beauty that nature gave you and that art has been completed and enhanced. I earn
wealth for you. For you will have lush beauty and youth body.

Asclepigenia .-- Do not freak out, Proclus. The youth is gone, never returns. Venus Urania not visited
you for no reason. As for wealth, I certainly did not ever win a mite with all your philosophy,
unless that appeals to the miracle.

PROCLEAN .-- Well, the miracle appealed. Now you will see who I am.

Here I love you, oh Theurgy! For something I have to serve. So far, Asclepigenia idolized, and
have owned in Eumorfo in Crematurgo beauty, youth and wealth, quotas, limited and outdated. From
now on later you will have youth, beauty and wealth at all and forever. Saved religious silence. And
starts the spell.

(Deep silence. Proclus, waving his stick, he draws air in circles, and other magical figures,
and muttered unintelligible words.

Hear celestial music, slow and submissive. In the center of the theater is a brilliant and
candid curdled cloud with carmine red glow, gold and pearl.)

And Atenais Asclepigenia .-- What wonder!

PROCLEAN .-- Hiding in the cloud you already have, at your service
and your service, replacing Eumorfo and Crematurgo, the archer Apollo,
the most elegant and beautiful of the gods, and the son of Jasion
and Ceres, Pluto the blind, a dispenser of wealth.

Want to go with retinues of muses, graces, nymphs, genii, or go alone?

Asclepigenia

.-- To go out alone. And asking them to go in the time convenient, everything I can think of.

PROCLEAN .-- Appear gods!

(Opens the cloud, and out of her bright Bengal, Pluto, lame, blind and winged, and Apollo, very
bizarre and airy, with a purple robe, crown of laurel and lyre in hand.)

PROCLEAN .-- What else do you have to ask?

Asclepigenia .-- Nothing. I was content to your love.

PROCLEAN .-- reflect, however, if something is missing.

Asclepigenia .-- If I am not accused of being overrun beggar and demanding, yet I would ask one
thing.

PROCLEAN .-- What?

Asclepigenia .-- That you wash.

PROCLEAN .-- I'll wash.

Already .-- Atenais happy. Possess science, beauty, youth, wealth and even toilet. I, helpless
and needy, far from envy you, rejoice.

PROCLEAN .-- Heaven will reward you, generous Atenais.

Yo, I'm now inspired, I read in the future your eminent destiny.

The younger Theodosius, who educates her sister Pulcheria well, so
shine on the imperial throne, will marry you.

So you will be Empress of the East. Will be happy and powerful without resorting to magic,
but will have to make a Christian. Finally, for that our glory and our happiness are more wonderful
and McCabe, after passing chop or fourteen centuries, counting from the day of the date shown
on the smiling and fertile Betic cradle of the dynasty and home to
your grandfather Theodosius the Great Political and countless other
Eminent persons, a witty and truthful writer, which is to write about
Tonight's events in a dialogue, where trying to compete with the divine
Plato in the high and severe, and the satirist Lucian in the funny
and cheerful.

I Atenais .-- Much of idle if your predictions are true.

Asclepigenia .-- And me too. I fear, however, that this dialogue, which Proclus announces,
is a extravaganza without amenities and without liveliness, where we figured, not as real people,
but as allegorical characters, where Proclus and I represent the old and corrupt sensual poetry
ancient knowledge and exhausted, desperate and barren, that are delivered live together to
witchcraft and superstitions.

Atenais .-- If the allegory may have some application when the dialogue is written, perhaps
interested in dialogue.

Asclepigenia .-- Whatever happens, should not matter much. There you are the author. Five of
us, mortals and gods, come to the couch, where I have prepared a
succulent and spicy dinner.

GODS AND DEATH .-- Let's go to dinner.

GOPA

PHILOSOPHICAL DIALOGUE IN THREE PICTURES.

TABLE I.

The scene is Capilavastu City: 593 years before Christ.

Interior
of the magnificent palace of Prince Siddhartha. It is night. House
of the thalamus, lit a lamp of gold.

GOPA .-- PRATYAPATI.

PRATYAPATI
.-- The king's servants more vigilant Sudono roam around the palace.
The city ​​gates are defended. Not go away. It must not go. Without
it what will of us? With equal vehemence we love him, though in different
ways. I love him like my son. When, shortly after giving life, died
BU mother Maya Devi, their request was Siddhartha to my care. They
did not want the gods that she lived, so they do not suffer what we
have today.

GOPA .-- Immense pain overwhelms us. Why irremediable
blight her beautiful face sad? Why you want to leave? What's missing,
what is waning in me? I would have preferred to gods, as he preferred
to Nal Damayanti. My fortune is estimated to obey with humility and
be all yours. Ungrateful! Your heart can not be still insatiable in
my love. His noble head never lying still on my breast. I no longer
love. Judge me unworthy of her affection.

.-- PRATYAPATI not torment
yourself, oh Gopa! Siddhartha loves you. To him you are the favorite
to be among all beings. But love is grief. Love is his martyrdom.
Love is devoured, creating in his soul an infinite pity, not condone
nor delight, nor joy, nor peace alone. All the evils of life weigh
on your heart, comprising in their affection the lives of the three
worlds. Love, eldest son of nature, by a fatal expansion of its divine
essence, be given to that lives, and life was born the pain, poverty,
disease and death. It seems that Siddhartha is the embodiment, the
avatar of love, weeping and regrets having created life; itself suffering
as every life has suffered, and longs to roll back the life to nothing
for the suffering ends.

Ephemeral .-- GOPA's life: the suffering
that emerges should be too.

PRATYAPATI .-- No, Gopa, life has no
end. Death is change, no end. Entrained in the current life, so moved,
but not of essence, which always comes back reborn or for pain. In
this sense, the gods, the asuras, and men are equally immortal.

GOPA
.-- And there is no happy?

PRATYAPATI .-- None. Unhappiness is the
first condition of life.

GOPA .-- Why Love created life, and unhappiness
with her?

PRATYAPATI .-- For Love was not free. As the spring sun
rays as the water flows from the source and flowed and flowed Love
life. Just sublime compassion moved, under superior effort to the
human and divine, collecting itself with portentous abstraction, Love
achieved also record themselves and give life eternal stillness.

GOPA
.-- I see you think like Siddhartha. Clap, no doubt, its purpose,
I do not understand.

PRATYAPATI .-- To some extent I like him but
its purpose is bold, it seems impossible, and bold and impossible
not applaud. If he was called, as he thinks, to be the deliverer of
men, I would and would gladly sacrifice a few to do to achieve it.

GOPA
Pratyapati .-- Oh! How mixed feelings are ours! If you love him as
mother, I, as a wife, a woman in love I love him. This mode of love
is less strong, usually the mother's love. Mother's love is much that
is born from the womb and rooted there. So, not only women but the
same fierce love their offspring. The woman in love with a man when
he just loves to love from the heart, does not love you more he loves
his mother, but when you love with love the spirit, love you a thousand
and a thousand times the most loving mother, she idolizes, he looks
like a god, have faith in him, he believed capable of everything great
and everything good and thinks that his will, which is law for it
must be born a miracle, the good and happiness for all. I do not know,
I do not understand the purpose of Siddhartha, but I know and understand
it will be good purpose, and to achieve, if you want. If by that I
do to achieve the greatest sacrifice I am eager to make.

PRATYAPATI
unhappy .-- Oh weak woman! What miserable resignation is yours? You
alone can Prince stop chain with the delight of your affection, but
the veneration Prince excites you inspires you to break that chain.
Violence will not be enough to keep him, but if your soft white arms
intrigue you, how do you depart from each other to go where dreams
that their vocation is calling? The king puts his hope in you. Not
disappoint. Retaining Siddhartha the spell of your love and your beauty.
Do not let him since .... Sorry steps. Siddhartha is coming. I will
not be staying here. Courage, Gopa oh!

(Goes Pratyapati.)

GOPA .--
Encouragement .... I needed to stop him, not need. I need to leave
from all my courage.

(Enter the Prince.) Gibes and jokes were broken on him without number, and as his passion
increased, so did their mirth, until nothing could be seen but the captain in vehement gesticulation,
the Irishmen huzzaing him so vociferously, that his damns and curses, uttered against them,
could not reach even his own ears.

"Gentlemen," said he to his cabin passengers, "for the love of Heaven, tax your invention to
discover some means whereby to get one-half of these men out of the vessel, otherwise it will
be impossible that we can sail to-day. I have already proffered to take one-half of them by
lot, but they will not hear of it; and how to manage I am sure I don't know."

The matter, however, was beyond their depth; the thing seemed utterly impracticable, and the
chances of their putting to sea were becoming fainter and fainter.

"Bl--t their eyes!" he at length exclaimed, "the ragged, hungry devils! If they heard me with
decency I could bear their obstinacy bettor: but no, they must turn me into ridicule, and break
their jests, and turn their cursed barbarous grins upon me in my own vessel. I say, boys,"
he added, proceeding to address them once more--"I say, savages, I have just three observations
to make. The first is,"--

"Arrah, Captain, avourneen, hadn't you betther get upon a stool," said a voice, "an' put a
text before it, thin divide it dacently into three halves, an' make a sarmon of it."

"Captain, you wor intended for the church," added another. "You're the moral (* model) of a
Methodist preacher, if you wor dressed in black."

"Let him alone," said a third; "he'd be a jinteel man enough in a wildherness, an' 'ud make
an illigant dancin'-masther to the bears."

"He's as graceful as a shaved pig on its hind legs, dancin' the 'Baltithrum Jig.'"

The captain's face was literally black with passion: he turned away with a curse, which produced
another huzza, and swore that he would rather encounter the Bay of Biscay in a storm, than
have anything to do with such an unmanageable mob.

"Captain," said a little, shrewd-looking Connaught man, "what 'ud you be willin' to give anybody,
ower an' abow his free passage, that 'ud tell you how to get one half o' them out?"

"I'll give him a crown," replied the captain, "together with grog and rations to the eyes:
I'll be hanged if I don't."

"Then I'll do it fwhor you, sir, if you keep your word wit me."

"Done!" said the captain; "it's a bargain, my good fellow, if you accomplish it; and, what's
more, I'll consider you a knowing one."

"I'm a poor Cannaught man, your haner," replied our friend Phil; "but what's to prevent me
thryin'? Tell thim," he continued, "that you must go; purtind to be for takin' thim all wit
you, sir. Put Munster agin Connaught, one-half on this side, an' the odher an that, to keep
the crathur of a ship steady, your haner; an' fwhin you have thim half an' half, wit a little
room betuxt thim, 'now,' says yer haner, 'boys, you're divided into two halves; if one side
kicks the other out o' the ship, I'll bring the conquirors.'"

The captain said not a word in reply to Phil, but immediately ranged the Munster and Connaught
men on each side of the deck--a matter which he found little difficulty in accomplishing, for
each party, hoping that he intended to take themselves, readily declared their province, and
stood together. When they were properly separated, there still remained about forty or fifty
persons belonging to neither province; but, at Phil's suggestion, the captain paired them off
to each division, man for man, until they were drawn up into two bodies.

"Now" said he, "there you stand: let one-half of you drub the other out of the vessel, and
the conquerors shall get their passage."

Instant was the struggle that ensued for the sake of securing a passage, and from the anxiety
to save a shilling, by getting out of Liverpool on that day. The saving of the shilling is
indeed a consideration with Paddy which drives him to the various resources of begging, claiming
kindred with his resident countrymen in England, pretended illness, coming to be passed from
parish to parish, and all the turnings and shiftings which his reluctance to part with money
renders necessary. Another night, therefore, and probably another day, in Liverpool, would
have been attended with expense. This argument prevailed with all: with Munster as well as
with Connaught, and they fought accordingly.

When the attack first commenced, each, party hoped to be able to expel the other without blows.
This plan was soon abandoned. In a few minutes the sticks and fists were busy. Throttling,
tugging, cuffing, and knocking down--shouting, hallooing, huzzaing, and yelling, gave evident
proofs that the captain, in embracing Phil's proposal, had unwittingly applied the match to
a mine, whose explosion was likely to be attended with disastrous consequences. As the fight
became warm, and the struggle more desperate, the hooks and scythes were resorted to; blood
began to flow, and men to fall, disabled and apparently dying. The immense crowd which had
now assembled to witness the fight among the Irishmen, could not stand tamely by, and see so
many lives likely to be lost, without calling in the civil authorities. A number of constables
in a few minutes attended; but these worthy officers of the civil authorities experienced very
uncivil treatment from the fists, cudgels, and sickles of both parties. In fact, they were
obliged to get from among the rioters with all possible celerity, and to suggest to the magistrates
the necessity of calling ir the military.

In the meantime the battle rose into a furious and bitter struggle for victory. The deck of
the vessel was actually slippery with blood, and many were lying in an almost lifeless state.
Several were pitched into the hold, and had their legs and arms broken by the fall; some were
tossed over the sides of the vessel, and only saved from drowning by the activity of the sailors;
and not a few of those who had been knocked down in the beginning of the fray were trampled
into insensibility.

The Munster men at length gave way; and their opponents, following up their advantage, succeeded
in driving them to a man out of the vessel, just as the military arrived. Fortunately their
interference was unnecessary. The ruffianly captain's object was accomplished; and as no lives
were lost, nor any injury more serious than broken bones and flesh-wounds sustained, he got
the vessel in readiness, and put to sea.

Who would not think that the Irish were a nation of misers, when our readers are informed that
all this bloodshed arose from their unwillingness to lose a shilling by remaining in Liverpool
another night? Or who could believe that these very men, on reaching home, and meeting their
friends in a fair or market, or in a public-house after mass on a Sunday, would sit down and
spend, recklessly and foolishly, that very money which in another country they part with as
if it were their very heart's blood? Yet so it is! Unfortunately, Paddy is wiser anywhere than
at home, where wisdom, sobriety, and industry are best calculated to promote his own interests.

This slight sketch of Phil Purcel we have presented to our readers as a specimen of the low,
cunning Connaught-man; and we have only to add, that neither the pig-selling scene, nor the
battle on the deck of the vessel in Liverpool, is fictitious. On the contrary, we have purposely
kept the tone of our description of the latter circumstance beneath the reality. Phil, however,
is not drawn as a general portrait, but as one of that knavish class of men called "jobbers,"
a description of swindlers certainly not more common in Ireland than in any other country.
We have known Connaughtmen as honest and honorable as it was possible to be; yet there is a
strong prejudice entertained against them in every other province of Ireland, as is evident
by the old adage, "Never trust a Connaugtaman."

THE GEOGRAPHY OF AN IRISH OATH.

No pen can do justice to the extravagance and frolic inseparable from the character of of the
Irish people; nor has any system of philosophy been discovered that can with moral fitness
be applied to them. Phrenology fails to explain it; for, so far as the craniums of Irishmen
are concerned, according to the most capital surveys hitherto made and reported on, it appears
that, inasmuch as their moral and intellectual organs predominate over the physical and sensual,
the people ought, therefore, to be ranked at the very tip-top of morality. We would warn the
phrenologists, however, not to be too sanguine in drawing inferences from an examination of
Paddy's head. Heaven only knows the scenes in which it is engaged, and the protuberances created
by a long life of hard fighting. Many an organ and development is brought out on it by the
cudgel, that never would have appeared had Nature been left to herself.

Drinking, fighting, and swearing, are the three great characteristics of every people. Paddy's
love of fighting and of whiskey has been long proverbial; and of his tact in swearing much
has also been said. But there is one department of oath-making in which he stands unrivalled
and unapproachable; I mean the alibi. There is where he shines, where his oath, instead of
being a mere matter of fact or opinion, rises up into the dignity of epic narrative, containing
within itself, all the complexity of machinery, harmony of parts, and fertility of invention,
by which your true epic should be characterized.

The Englishman, whom we will call the historian in swearing, will depose to the truth of this
or that fact, but there the line is drawn; he swears his oath so far as he knows, and stands
still. "I'm sure, for my part, I don't know; I've said all I knows about it," and beyond this
his besotted intellect goeth not.

The Scotchman, on the other hand, who is the metaphysician in swearing, sometimes borders on
equivocation. He decidedly goes farther than the Englisman, not because he has less honesty,
but more prudence. He will assent to, or deny a proposition; for the Englishman's "I don't
know," and the Scotchman's "I dinna ken," are two very distinct assertions when properly understood.
The former stands out a monument of dulness, an insuperable barrier against inquiry, ingenuity,
and fancy; but the latter frequently stretches itself so as to embrace hypothetically a particular
opinion.

But Paddy! Put him forward to prove an alibi for his fourteenth or fifteenth cousin, and you
will be gratified by the pomp, pride, and circumstance of true swearing. Every oath with him
is an epic--pure poetry, abounding with humor, pathos, and the highest order of invention and
talent. He is not at ease, it is true, under facts; there is something too commonplace in dealing
with them, which his genius scorns. But his flights--his flights are beautiful; and his episodes
admirable and happy. In fact, he is an improvisatore at oath-taking; with this difference,
that his extempore oaths possess all the ease and correctness of labor and design.

He is not, however, altogether averse to facts: but, like your true poet, he veils, changes,
and modifies them with such skill, that they possess all the merit and graces of fiction. If
he happen to make an assertion incompatible with the plan of the piece, his genius acquires
fresh energy, enables him to widen the design, and to create new machinery, with such happiness
of adaptation, that what appeared out of proportion of character is made, in his hands, to
contribute to the general strength and beauty of the oath.

'Tis true, there is nothing perfect under the sun; but if there were, it would certainly be
Paddy at an alibi. Some flaws, no doubt, occur; some slight inaccuracies may be noticed by
a critical eye; an occasional anachronism stands out, and a mistake or so in geography; but
let it be recollected that Paddy's alibi is but a human production; let us not judge him by
harsher rules than those which we apply to Homer, Virgil, or Shakspeare.

"Aliquando bonus dormitat Homerus," is allowed on all hands. Virgil made Dido and AEneas contemporary,
though they were not so; and Shakspeare, by the creative power of his genius, changed an inland
town into a seaport. Come, come, have bowels. Let epic swearing be treated with the same courtesy
shown to epic poetry, that is, if both are the production of a rare genius. I maintain, that
when Paddy commits a blemish he is too harshly admonished for it. When he soars out of sight
here, as occasionally happens, does he not frequently alight somewhere about Sydney Bay, much
against his own inclination? And if he puts forth a hasty production, is he not compelled,
for the space of seven or fourteen years, to revise his oath? But, indeed, few words of fiction
are properly encouraged in Ireland.

It would be unpardonable in us, however, to overlook the beneficial effects of Paddy's peculiar
genius in swearing alibis. Some persons, who display their own egregious ignorance of morality,
may be disposed to think that it tends to lessen the obligation of an oath, by inducing a habit
among the people of swearing to what is not true. We look upon such persons as very dangerous
to Ireland and to the repeal of the Union; and we request them not to push their principles
too far in the disturbed parts of the country. Could society hold together a single day, if
nothing but truth were spoken, would not law and lawyers soon become obsolete, if nothing but
truth were sworn what would become of parliament if truth alone were uttered there? Its annual
proceedings might be dispatched in a month. Fiction is the basis of society, the bond of commercial
prosperity, the channel of communication between nation and nation, and not unfrequently the
interpreter between a man and his own conscience.

For these, and many other reasons which we could adduce, we say with Paddy, "Long life to fiction!"
When associated with swearing, it shines in its brightest colors. What, for instance, is calculated
to produce the best and purest of the moral virtues so beautifully, as the swearing an alibi?
Here are fortitude and a love of freedom resisting oppression; for it is well known that all
law is oppression in Ireland.

There is compassion for the peculiar state of the poor boy, who, perhaps, only burned a family
in their beds; benevolence to prompt the generous effort in his behalf; disinterestedness to
run the risk of becoming an involuntary absentee; fortitude in encountering a host of brazen-faced
lawyers; patience under the unsparing gripe of a cross-examiner; perseverance in conducting
the oath to its close against a host of difficulties; and friendship, which bottoms and crowns
them all.

Paddy's merits, however, touching the alibi, rest not here. Fiction on these occasions only
teaches him how to perform a duty. It may be, that he is under the obligation of a previous
oath not to give evidence against certain of his friends and associates. Now, could anything
in the whole circle of religion or ethics be conceived that renders the epic style of swearing
so incumbent upon Paddy? There is a kind of moral fitness in all things; for where the necessity
of invention exists, it is consolatory to reflect that the ability to invent is bestowed along
with it.

Next to the alibi comes Paddy's powers in sustaining a cross-examination. Many person thinks
that this is his forte; but we cannot yield to such an opinion, nor compromise his originality
of conception in the scope and plan of an alibi. It is marked by a minuteness of touch, and
a peculiarity of expression which give it every appearance of real life. The circumstances
are so well imagined, the groups so naturally disposed, the coloring so finished, and the background
in such fine perspective, that the whole picture presents you with such keeping and vraisemblance,
as could be accomplished only by the genius of a master.

In point of interest, however, we must admit that his ability in a cross-examination ranks
next to his skill in planning an alibi. There is, in the former, a versatility of talent that
keeps him always ready; a happiness of retort, generally disastrous to the wit of the most
established cross-examiner; an apparent simplicity, which is quite as impenetrable as the lawyer's
assurance; a vis comica, which puts the court in tears; and an originality of sorrow, that
often convulses it with laughter. His resources, when he is pressed, are inexhaustible; and
the address, with which he contrives to gain time, that he may suit his reply to the object
of his evidence, is beyond all praise. And yet his appearance when he mounts the table is anything
but prepossessing; a sheepish look, and a loose-jointed frame of body, wrapped in a frieze
great-coat, do not promise much. Nay, there is often a rueful blank expression in his visage,
which might lead a stranger to anticipate nothing but blunders and dulness. This, however,
is hypocrisy of the first water. Just observe the tact with which he places his caubeen upon
the table, his kippeen across it, and the experienced air with which he pulls up the waistbands
of his breeches, absolutely girding his loins for battle. 'Tis true his blue eye has at present
nothing remarkable in it, except a drop or to of the native; but that is not remarkable.

When the direct examination has been concluded, nothing can be finer than the simplicity with
which he turns round to the lawyer who is to cross-examine him. Yet, as if conscious that firmness
and caution are his main guards, he again pulls up his waistbands with a more vigorous hitch,
looks shyly into the very eyes of his opponent, and awaits the first blow.

The question at length comes; and Paddy, after having raised the collar of his big coat on
his shoulder, and twisted up the shoulder along with it, directly puts the query back to the
lawyer, without altering a syllable of it, for the purpose of ascertaining more accurately
whether that is the precise question that has been put to him; for Paddy is conscientious.
Then is the science displayed on both sides. The one, a veteran, trained in all the technicalities
of legal puzzles, irony, blarney, sarcasm, impudence, stock jokes, quirks, rigmarolery, brow-beating,
ridicule, and subtlety; the other a poor peasant, relying only upon the justice of a good cause
and the gifts of nature; without either experience, or learning, and with nothing but his native
modesty to meet the forensic effrontery of his antagonist.

Our readers will perceive that the odds are a thousand to one against Paddy; yet, when he replies
to a hackneyed genius at cross-examination, how does it happen that he uniformly elicits those
roars of laughter which rise in the court, and convulse it from the judge to the crier? In
this laugh, which is usually at the expense of the cross-examiner, Paddy himself always joins,
so that the counsel has the double satisfaction of being made not only the jest of the judge
and his brother lawyers, but of the ragged witness whom he attempted to make ridiculous.

It is not impossible that this merry mode of dispensing justice may somewhat encourage Paddy
in that independence of mind which relishes not the idea of being altogether bound by oaths
that are too often administered with a jocular spirit. To most of the Irish in general an oath
is a solemn, to some, an awful thing. Of this wholesome reverence for its sanction, two or
three testimonies given in a court of justice usually cured them. The indifferent, business-like
manner in which the oaths are put, the sing-song tone of voice, the rapid utterance of the
words, give to this solemn act an appearance of excellent burlesque, which ultimately renders
the whole proceedings remarkable for the absence of truth and reality; but, at the same time,
gives them unquestionable merit as a dramatic representation, abounding with fiction, well
related and ably acted.

Thumb-kissing is another feature in Paddy's adroitness too important to be passed over in silence.
Here his tact shines out again! It would be impossible for him, in many cases, to meet the
perplexities of a cross-examination so cleverly as he does, if he did not believe that he had,
by kissing his thumb instead of the book, actually taken no oath, and consequently given to
himself a wider range of action. We must admit, however, that this very circumstance involves
him in difficulties which are sometimes peculiarly embarrassing. Taking everything into consideration,
the prospect of freedom for his sixth cousin, the consciousness of having kissed his thumb,
or the consoling reflection that he swore only on a Law Bible, it must be granted that the
opportunities presented by a cross-examination are well calculated to display his wit, humor,
and fertility of invention. He is accordingly great in it; but still we maintain that his execution
of an alibi is his ablest performance, comprising, as it does, both the conception and construction
of the work.

Both the oaths and imprecations of the Irish display, like those who use them, indications
of great cruelty and great humor. Many of the former exhibit that ingenuity which comes out
when Paddy is on his cross-examination in a court of justice. Every people, it is true, have
resorted to the habit of mutilating or changing in their oaths the letters which form the Creator's
name; but we question if any have surpassed the Irish in the cleverness with which they accomplish
it. Mock oaths are habitual to Irishmen in ordinary conversation; but the use of any or all
of them is not considered to constitute an oath: on the contrary, they are in the mouths of
many who would not, except upon a very solemn occasion indeed, swear by the name of the Deity
in its proper form.

The ingenuity of their mock oaths is sufficient to occasion much perplexity to any one disposed
to consider it in connection with the character and moral feelings of the people. Whether to
note it as a reluctance on their part to incur the guilt of an oath, or as a proof of habitual
tact in evading it by artifice, is manifestly a difficulty hard to be overcome. We are decidedly
inclined to the former; for although there is much laxity of principle among Irishmen, naturally
to be expected from men whose moral state has been neglected by the legislature, and deteriorated
by political and religious asperity, acting upon quick passions and badly regulated minds--yet
we know that they possess, after all, a strong, but vague undirected sense of devotional feeling
and reverence, which are associated with great crimes and awfully dark shades of character.
This explains one chief cause of the sympathy which is felt in Ireland for criminals from whom
the law exacts the fatal penalty of death; and it also accounts, independently of the existence
of any illegal association, for the terrible retribution inflicted upon those who come forward
to prosecute them. It is not in Ireland with criminals as in other countries, where the character
of a murderer or incendiary is notoriously bad, as resulting from a life of gradual profligacy
and villany. Far from it. In Ireland you will find those crimes perpetrated by men who are
good fathers, good husbands, good sons, and good neighbors--by men who would share their last
morsel or their last shilling with a fellow-creature in distress--who would generously lose
their lives for a man who had obliged them, provided he had not incurred their enmity--and
who would protect a defenseless stranger as far as lay in their power. There are some mock
oaths among Irishmen which must have had their origin amongst those whose habits of thought
were much more elevated than could be supposed to characterize the lower orders. "By the powers
of death" is never now used as we have written it; but the ludicrous travestie of it, "by the
powdhors o' delf," is quite common. Of this and other mock oaths it may be right to observe,
that those who swear by them are in general ignorant of their proper origin. There are some,
however, of this description whose original form is well known. One of these Paddy displays
considerable ingenuity in using. "By the cross" can scarcely be classed under the mock oaths,
but the manner in which it is pressed into asseverations is amusing. When Paddy is affirming
a truth he swears "by the crass" simply, and this with him is an oath of considerable obligation.
He generally, in order to render it more impressive, accompanies it with suitable action, that
is, he places the forefinger of each hand across, that he may assail you through two senses
instead of one. On the contrary, when he intends to hoax you by asserting what is not true,
he ingeniously multiplies the oath, and swears "by the five crashes," that is by his own five
fingers, placing at the same time his four fingers and his thumbs across each other in a most
impressive and vehement manner. Don't believe him then--the knave is lying as fast as possible,
and with no remorse. "By the crass o' Christ" is an oath of much solemnity, and seldom used
in a falsehood. Paddy also often places two bits of straws across, and sometimes two sticks,
upon which he swears with an appearance of great heat and sincerity--sed caveto!

Irishmen generally consider iron as a sacred metal. In the interior of the country, the thieves
(but few in number) are frequently averse to stealing it. Why it possesses this hold upon their
affections it is difficult to say, but it is certain that they rank it among their sacred things,
consider that to find it is lucky, and nail it over their doors when found in the convenient
shape of a horse-shoe. It is also used as a medium of asserting truth. We believe, however,
that the sanction it imposes is not very strong. "By this blessed iron!"--"by this blessed
an' holy iron!" are oaths of an inferior grade; but if the circumstance on which they are founded
be a matter of indifference, they seldom depart from truth in using them.

We have said that Paddy, when engaged in a fight, is never at a loss for a weapon, and we may
also affirm that he is never at a loss for an oath. When relating a narrative, or some other
circumstance of his own invention, if contradicted, he will corroborate it, in order to sustain
his credit or produce the proper impression, by an abrupt oath upon the first object he can
seize. "Arrah, nonsense! by this pipe in my hand, it's as thrue as"--and then, before he completes
the illustration, he goes on with a fine specimen of equivocation--"By the stool I'm sittin'
an, it is; an' what more would, you have from me barrin' I take my book oath of it?" Thus does
he, under the mask of an insinuation, induce you to believe that he has actually sworn it,
whereas the oath is always left undefined and incomplete.

Sometimes he is exceedingly comprehensive in his adjurations, and swears upon a magnificent
scale; as, for instance,--"By the contints of all the books that ever wor opened an' shut,
it's as thrue as the sun to the dial." This certainly leaves "the five crasses" immeasurably
behind. However, be cautious, and not too confident in taking so sweeping and learned an oath
upon trust, notwithstanding its imposing effect. We grant, indeed, that an oath which comprehends
within its scope all the learned libraries of Europe, including even the Alexandrian of old,
is not only an erudite one, but establishes in a high degree the taste of the swearer, and
displays on his part an uncommon grasp of intellect. Still we recommend you, whenever you hear
an alleged fact substantiated by it, to set your ear as sharply as possible; for, after all,
it is more than probable that every book by which he has sworn might be contained in a nutshell.
The secret may be briefly explained:--Paddy is in the habit of substituting the word never
for ever. "By all the books that never wor opened or shut," the reader perceives, is only a
nourish of trumpets--a mere delusion of the enemy.

In fact, Paddy has oaths rising gradually from the lying ludicrous to the superstitious solemn,
each of which finely illustrates the nature of the subject to which it is applied. When he
swears "By the contints o' Moll Kelly's Primer," or "By the piper that played afore Moses,"
you are, perhaps, as strongly inclined to believe him as when he draws upon a more serious
oath; that is, you almost regret the thing is not the gospel that Paddy asserts it to be. In
the former sense, the humorous narrative which calls forth the laughable burlesque of "By the
piper o' Moses," is usually the richest lie in the whole range of fiction.

Paddy is, in his ejaculatory, as well as in all his other mock oaths, a kind, of smuggler in
morality, imposing as often as he can upon his own conscience, and upon those who exercise
spiritual authority over him. Perhaps more of his oaths are blood-stained than would be found
among the inhabitants of all Christendom put together.

Paddy's oaths in his amours are generally rich specimens of humorous knavery and cunning. It
occasionally happens--but for the honor of our virtuous countrywomen, we say but rarely--that
by the honey of his flattering and delusive tongue, he succeeds in placing some unsuspecting
girl's reputation in rather a hazardous predicament. When the priest comes to investigate the
affair, and to cause him to make compensation to the innocent creature who suffered by his
blandishments, it is almost uniformly ascertained that, in order to satisfy her scruples as
to the honesty of his promises, he had sworn marriage to her on a book of ballads!!! In other
cases blank books have been used for the same purpose.

If, however, you wish to pin Paddy up in a corner, get him a Relic, a Catholic prayer-book,
or a Douay Bible to swear upon. Here is where the fox--notwithstanding all his turnings and
windings upon heretic Bibles, books, or ballads, or mock oaths--is caught at last. The strongest
principle in him is superstition. It may be found as the prime mover in his best and worst
actions. An atrocious man, who is superstitious, will perform many good and charitable actions,
with a hope that their merit in the sight of God may cancel the guilt of his crimes. On the
other hand, a good man, who is superstitiously the slave of his religious opinions, will lend
himself to those illegal combinations, whose object is, by keeping ready a system of organized
opposition to an heretical government, to fulfil, if a political crisis should render it practicable,
the absurd prophecies of Pastorini and Columbkil. Although the prophecies of the former would
appear to be out of date to a rational reader, yet Paddy, who can see farther into prophecy
than any rational reader, honestly believes that Pastorini has left for those who are superstitiously
given, sufficient range of expectation in several parts of his work.

We might enumerate many other oaths in frequent use among the peasantry; but as our object
is not to detail them at full length, we trust that those already specified may be considered
sufficient to enable our readers to get a fuller insight into their character, and their moral
influence upon the people.

The next thing which occurs to us in connection with the present subject, is cursing; and here
again Paddy holds the first place. His imprecations are often full, bitter, and intense. Indeed,
there is more poetry and epigrammatic point in them than in those of any other country in the
world.

We find it a difficult thing to enumerate the Irish curses, so as to do justice to a subject
so varied and so liable to be shifted and improved by the fertile genius of those who send
them abroad. Indeed, to reduce them into order and method would be a task of considerable difficulty.
Every occasion, and every fit of passion, frequently produce a new curse, perhaps equal in
bitterness to any that has gone before it.

Many of the Irish imprecations are difficult to be understood, having their origin in some
historical event, or in poetical metaphors that require a considerable process of reasoning
to explain them. Of this twofold class is that general one, "The curse of Cromwell on you!"
which means, may you suffer all that a tyrant like Cromwell would inflict! and "The curse o'the
crows upon you!" which is probably an allusion to the Danish invasion--a raven being the symbol
of Denmark; or it may be tantamount to "May you rot on the hills, that the crows may feed upon
your carcass!" Perhaps it may thus be understood to imprecate death upon you or some member
of your house--alluding to the superstition of rooks hovering over the habitations of the sick,
when the malady with which they are afflicted is known to be fatal. Indeed, the latter must
certainly be the meaning of it, as is evident from the proverb of "Die, an' give the crow a
puddin'."

"Hell's cure to you!--the devil's luck to you!--high hanging to you!--hard feeling to you!--a
short coorse to you!" are all pretty intense, and generally used under provocation and passion.
In these cases the curses just mentioned are directed immediately to the offensive object,
and there certainly is no want of the malus animus to give them energy. It would be easy to
multiply the imprecations belonging to this class among the peasantry, but the task is rather
unpleasant. There are a few, however, which, in consequence of their ingenuity, we cannot pass
over: they are, in sooth, studies for the swearer. "May you never die till you see your own
funeral!" is a very beautiful specimen of the periphrasis: it simply means, may you be hanged;
for he who is hanged is humorously said to be favored with a view of that sombre spectacle,
by which they mean the crowd that attends an execution. To the same purpose is, "May you die
wid a caper in your heel!"--"May you die in your pumps!"--"May your last dance be a hornpipe
on the air!" These are all emblematic of hanging, and are uttered sometimes in jest, and occasionally
in earnest. "May the grass grow before your door!" is highly imaginative and poetical. Nothing,
indeed, can present the mind with a stronger or more picturesque emblem of desolation and ruin.
Its malignity is terrible.

There are also mock imprecations as well as mock oaths. Of this character are, "The devil go
with you an' sixpence, an' thin you'll want neither money nor company!" This humorous and considerate
curse is generally confined to the female sex. When Paddy happens to be in a romping mood,
and teases his sweetheart too much, she usually utters it with a countenance combating with
smiles and frowns, while she stands in the act of pinning up her dishevelled hair; her cheeks,
particularly the one next Paddy, deepened into a becoming blush.

"Bad scran to you!" is another form seldom used in anger: it is the same as "Hard feeding to
you!" "Bad win' to you!" is "Ill health to you!" it is nearly the same as "Consumin' (consumption)
to you!" Two other imprecations come under this head, which we will class together, because
they are counterparts of each other, with this difference, that one of them is the most subtilely
and intensely withering in its purport that can well be conceived. The one is that common curse,
"Bad 'cess to you!" that is, bad success to you: we may identify it with "Hard fortune to you!"
The other is a keen one, indeed--"Sweet bad luck to you!" Now, whether we consider the epithet
sweet as bitterly ironical, or deem it as a wish that prosperity may harden the heart to the
accomplishment of future damnation, as in the case of Dives, we must in either sense grant
that it is an oath of powerful hatred and venom. Occasionally the curse of "Bad luck to you!"
produces an admirable retort, which is pretty common. When one man applies it to another, he
is answered with "Good luck to you, thin; but may neither of thim ever happen."

"Six eggs to you, an' half-a-dozen o' them rotten!"--like "The devil go with you an' sixpence!"
is another of those pleasantries which mostly occur in the good-humored badinage between the
sexes. It implies disappointment.

There is a species of imprecation prevalent among Irishmen which we may term neutral. It is
ended by the word bit, and merely results from a habit of swearing where there is no malignity
of purpose. An Irishman, when corroborating an assertion, however true or false, will often
say, "Bad luck to the bit but it is;"--"Divil fire the bit but it's thruth!"--"Damn the bit
but it is!" and so on. In this form the mind is not moved, nor the passions excited: it is
therefore probably the most insipid of all their imprecations.

Some of the most dreadful maledictions are to be heard among the confirmed mendicants of Ireland.
The wit, the gall, and the poetry of these are uncommon. "May you melt off the earth like snow
off the ditch!" is one of a high order and intense malignity; but it is not exclusively confined
to mendicants, although they form that class among which it is most prevalent. Nearly related
to this is, "May you melt like butther before a summer sun!" These are, indeed, essentially
poetical; they present the mind with appropriate imagery, and exhibit a comparison perfectly
just and striking. The former we think unrivalled.

Some of the Irish imprecations would appear to have come down to us from the Ordeals. Of this
class, probably, are the following: "May this be poison to me!"--"May I be roasted on red hot
iron!" Others of them, from their boldness of metaphor, seem to be of Oriental descent. One
expression, indeed, is strikingly so. When a deep offence is offered to an Irishman, under
such peculiar circumstances that he cannot immediately retaliate, he usually replies to his
enemy--"You'll sup sorrow for this!"--"You'll curse the day it happened!"--"I'll make you rub
your heels together!" It is a tycoon who has a castle, and
has to go looking for a nursing zoca in molondra. It is a beggar who has risen to a palace,
but that has not ceased to be a beggar, boasting vain! Sterile pomp! Poor magnificence! Here are many things
just like to do, they say many things just like to say no ostentation, apparatus, there is no
intention, no purpose, there is an intimate and earnest work of the consciousness, which precedes
all desire, to every aspiration, especially when it is a mature and sensible aspiration. Here
are many non-profit principles. No meeting in France the previous thought, cautious, confident,
inflexible, I find in the work of the Germans, that beautiful feeling, that fantasy aromatic,
this seductive inspiration from the Italians, this calculation fixed, inflexible, stubborn,
silent, secretive, perhaps traitor, but logical, confident, wise, of the English, the hospital
rustic, generous and faithful that barbarism honest, faithful, loyal and courageous, the league
of the wild and the gentleman; mistura indefinable that the soldier, the poet, the pastor and the
gentleman that something Latino SCIT and Arabic, the character who entered Regulus, Attila and
Saladin, that specialty unique in the world (as the word chivalry) which distinguishes the
Spanish. Not saying it good, nor bad: say it is unique, and I accept the challenge to prove
otherwise I do. Can not find it here. I seem to find fast, stunning indeliberacion, exteriority,
luxury, pomp, purple on the outside, inside is a different thing. It's a great bottle that is uncovered.
Much noise, much buzzing, thick foam, whoever happens to little noise, and the bottle is half
empty. It seems as if the city feels that life gets out of hand, and runs back frantically
to catch her by the hair.

Elsewhere on the globe, a palace is a building that serves as home to kings, to the chief priests,
to the magnates, to the powerful, to the great corporations of the State as a Congress or
an Assembly. Here, no. Here is a palace tank of Industry, the exchange office, bank, the mint,
however, that neither the mint, or the bank, the industry, state bodies are high or powerful,
or magnates, or kings, or priests. This takes the name lavish palace, which in other countries
is simply called house, auction, storage, corn exchange, Almudín, or something similar. And the lavish
name, the royal strain with which to decorate the architecture (or the stones are safe from French
genius!) comes from the general trend that has created so many ways in this Babylon of the West;
some colossal forms, that has created so many interests, not respectable few, because there is no delusion
that has something sublime, and the frenzy of the French has been lucky: that itch idealize
everything, do everything Régio, as if he had left to be beauty eternal beauty of simplicity,
the inexhaustible, the majestic, the magnificent, the unique beauty of truth and the beauty
of a light cloud crossing the sky lonely: that passion, I say, comes from that spirit mythological,
fantastic, almost visionary, that is blind to the French, the French want the whole world blind. Not
how painful they want, because everyone makes his genius as you can: the painful is that they
want and succeed. Let's get it tomorrow, because the gilding is not shining always gold, because
the swarm of beer does not last forever, but today we get, because the dazzling gilded, because
the noise of the beer bottle stuns. Today we get; this is the truth.

And entering into the matter of the Exchange, bareheaded head and asking forgiveness from persons to
whom it will hurt, but it can be part of my desire, because my desire
more deliberate is not hurting anyone, I say that I am not consistent
with that change, with that business, with that game called Stock,
as today is established and organized.

I accept all legal game, as a distraction, and social profession as a career, as a profession,
as wages of every day, do not accept it. Tired as I can see that this opinion will shock to not
a few readers, I guess you call me extravagant, congratulations, I say and I repeat aloud
to not accept it. Honestly go play for awhile, yes. Playing for playing live; to give life to a game,
to pluck giving hands and smiling, for make a fortune in a day unwarranted, at the expense of
others foolish play for so many decent and honest traders burn your brain with a gun, not that.
Can be answered what they want, I do not wear the counter to anyone, any one deny it, but
I say no.

And who wants to have ideas of the Stock Exchange who wants to know what that game, that game that
very recently was called speculation, to come at two o'clock in the afternoon, and witness the
is going on inside this place.

I am going to say what I have seen himself, what I by I myself have witnessed, what I see and
witness, and hopefully I had not seen not seen!

Sounds when the quote of funds, and many people arrive, crowding, is harassing, crushed. Everyone
gets on tiptoes, stretched necks, beards, poke, faces light, eyes
are swollen .... Mother of God!

That's not a crier, no shouting; howling is an interminable, infernal gibberish. That's not
change, business, trade; that's a frenzy, a rapture, a fever. Acknowledge the existence of the fever
and frenzy like disease do not recognize it as a negotiation.

France wins a battle in Cochinchina, and raise funds. France itself suffers a setback in Sebastopol,
and the funds go down.

And the Frenchman, the man who was born in this village, the son of this mother, he sees his mother
fall, and if the stock market requires it, turns away and sold for three farthings. The fallen
are lifted then won a victory in the fields of Italy, cannon sounds announcing the victory
of Solferino, and the French recently sold to the France by three pennies, and now becomes offers
a bag full of gold. I will not give to France, but his game to his whims, his egoism. That's
a trading game with fortune and the disgrace of his country with honor and the glory of their
homeland. I do not accept that play the tears of a nation, I can not admit they play with conflicts
of men. I can not admit they play with the spirit which seeks an injunction under a crown laurel
crown perhaps soaked in blood, a blood shed by a brother maybe playing with that crown. Also
must be a letter from the man playing the palm of martyr! What is left to the world that leave
life, if you do not leave this palm! Traded on buenhora with matter, trading in all the world,
but leave the soul of man metaphysics poetics of a laurel, the metaphysical poetry of glory!

I
said and I repeat that this is not commerce, that is not the intelligence that unites nations which
melts the races, which establishes the unity of the world, the unity of mankind, unity of nature,
immutable and holy unity of God.

That is not trade, the conqueror universal, the universal revolutionary, commissioned by Providence
to carry, among its goods the spirit of tolerance and civilization to all countries. Play
is not trading, trade, not to play, should be the job of the merchant. If your new job is
a game, the natural just leave the name of dealer, and take the player name. If they accept the name
if agrees to receive the new baptism, with their bread let them eat. One certainly would not take
my son this profession, at least if my son heard the voice of his father.

Nor am I satisfied with the word exchange, nor that the stock has a palace, or the game that the palace
is verified.

At this point comes into my room D. Francisco Javier de Mendoza, who
has arrived recently some of Venezuela, and whom I met at the house
of D. José Segundo Florez.

The reader will allow me who devotes two lines to these two new characters, which will honor
the pages of my humildísimos notes.

Florea is a methodical man, relaxed, quiet, observant, deeply, is
a scholar, a man of letters, as it were an ancient sage, but with
modern science.

Javier de Mendoza speaks fluently, elegantly, with passion. Is passionate about everything
good reputation, and is passionate about the word: talk much, well, runs more than talk; imagines
running, calculated and planned than imagined. The single digested much more his thought, that
twenty people with the stomach. Get to the point where you are going before leave. Such is
the force with which his soul measures the space between the object you are looking for. This space
disappears, devours it, and before going into their thinking, is at his side. This man is
one of the largest characters I know. In it some combination of gallant and writer, soldier and
artist, a diplomat and banker. Is a large workshop, a large office in each of these characters
work without the workers uncomfortable.

Speaking of political views, says he wants equality of wealth and enjoyment, not the misery and
martyrdom. A Democrat, but wants to go by car. Has democracy of feeling, and the aristocracy
of the carriage.

If you aspire to employees, their first job would be a ministerial
portfolio, or an embassy of the first order.

If I had the gift of color, feel better if the art form, it would be a genius yet these skills,
is a good talent.

Then I read my friend Javier de Mendoza relation to the palace of the Bourse, and the game well
known publicly, and agreed in the impropriety of that word, and the
impropriety Palace name, applicable to that building.

It makes the game, agreed with me also, but I have noted that my views on this point will cause
outrage among some people, may do harm to the publication of my work.

For though my work is sinking, and to burn me, I said, say and repeat that I am not satisfied
but things Christian, and I think that this game is not Christian.

In the midst of my misadventures (which have been infinite) owe the sky that amount of value to
say to all the world the truth of a decent, and I always say, but it cost me up to scaffold.

Mingling amicably after the character of this wonderful city, we have agreed they would not miss
the best day to get up here a magnificent building, with the title
of PALACE OF THE MARKET.

Such is the rash that the French have shine, that we certainly would cause surprise to give a
palace to rabbits and partridges; to butter and to the eggs to cabbage, new potatoes and radishes
to.

It will say that we say this with intent to satirize this country. I'll not deny that the have
in us something of the mischievous malice, with which upbraideth
a ridiculous thing, something perhaps he feels that taste rough Spanish,
when tasting a delicacy of our neighbors; may have it in us, without
us knowing it, as we unknowingly mosquitoes bite during sleep, but
this does not mean that what we say has a great of truth.

Let us now turn to the Palacio Real, whose history is shorter and gallant. The reader knows that
during the course of several centuries, this magnificent palace was the center of Parisian
coquetry. In this garden that I see, the cunning courtesan offered to viewers in the suit
low-cut, looking back and chest, as if to flaunt wealth their incentives, also of wealth assault.
I say shame wealth, because if the giver much should be rich, those were to be very rich courtesans
of decorum. But being the Palace Real one of the great wonders of the absolute monarchy, it is
clear that in passing that regime, should have lost no little of its former glory. Space is the
least has been lost, and three streets have been made at the expense
of its enchanting gardens, the streets of Valois, Beaujolais , and
Montpensier.

I mean nothing of the architecture of the palace, because the prints
to accompany the work, will give a better picture than all the descriptions
that I could do, and happened to its historical background.

Richelieu, Cardinal more gallant history knows, the right arm of one of the more gallant kings
history knows well, the great minister of the great Louis XIV; Cardinal larger that that king,
Richelieu, the prelate poet, the poet financier, the political financier, political philosopher,
the philosopher magnate, standing up Palace Real. Then, there was recourse is the memory of
the great treasures that was indebted to the prodigal affection of
their kings, those treasures had to dig into the consciousness, was
wounded; in short, had remorse, and left the palace to Louis XIII,
who could not take possession.

Many secrets you must enclose the pile of stones! What story could be so curious writing, if the
mind of man was able to boot into oblivion those secrets!

But I do not say well, many of the things I have seen these walls and these floors, they could
not written, because there are many mysteries in this world that can not be counted.

This palace was the most famous, the home favorite of the aristocracy
of the seventeenth century XVIII, the monument of feasting, of gallantry,
love, a kind of temple in Athens, one of those Greek temples were
dedicated to beauty, a throne where he sat the goddess Venus as queen.

In that palace there was a theater, the brightest of all France, which fit comfortably three
thousand people, had a chapel, which was of solid gold ornaments, a magnificent library; rich collections
of paintings, and endless portraits of illustrious men, so that those rooms looked more like a historic
cemetery.

The palace of Cardinal represented foreign consortium of courtesy, of religion, science and
art, castle, church, theater, paintings and books.

Anne of Austria, Queen of France and regent of the kingdom, lived
near their Richelieu two, to mid-seventeenth century in 1643, and
in the same splendid palace took place wedding of his daughter to
the Duke of Orleans, brother of Louis XIV, whose monarch gave after
his brother the duke, to infantazgo title.

That same palace was the dwelling of the ruler, son of the Duke of
Orleans, and the fortress was Alcazar less than thalamus.

The books and portraits of famous men, science and art led to the toasts and the orgies. Richelieu
gave way to a prince, infamous.

Luis Felipe came, came the modern liberties, and tending to level it all, the Palace Real had to
fall, because the royal palace was nothing but a large gap from the old aristocracies.

Today, much of the lavish palace of the seventeenth century, has become
a huge bazaar.

This unexpected and wonderful transformation, presents the interesting spectacle of a conquering
caste to another caste, a fausto fausto happens to another of a bubble that put in place of another
bubble. This bazaar is the merchant, since instead of the courtier.

You live in the Royal Palace, leaving no precision there to provide
all things of life, from the muffin that costs a salary until the
ring worth ten thousand dollars.

That is not a building, is a major exhibition, a city, a people.

Three characters that fill the history of mankind, have stepped in
the same century the stairs of the castle: Richelieu, Louis XIV and
Peter the Great.

The Royal Palace has been on the names I am going to score.

Pay attention my readers.

In its early days, was called:

Palace and Palace of Cardinal Richelieu.

Under Anne of Austria, the Royal Palace.

Under the Revolution, the Palace of Equality.

After the revolution of February, the National Palace.

Recently, the Royal Palace.

He has served as palace, a forum, Brokerage, Commercial Court, and now Palace and bazaar.

We go to Luxembourg, whose history is even shorter, though no less curious and spicy. I say hot,
because all the creations of this society, there is something amazing, that surprised, but
it amazes and surprises, with a surprise and a wonder they have a
I do not know what that leads to laughter.

The French have a particularly pathetic, pathetic is half and half ironically, a baby who cries
and laughs at the same moment.

In all countries, institutions, systems, laws, attending the funeral of generations. Here a generation
attends the burial of many laws, many systems, and found many institutions.

This is reflected relentless levity in almost all public buildings in Luxembourg too, and so
I said having a curious history and spicy.

Roberto de Sancy Harlay built a building on the land now called Jardin de Luxembourg about
the year 1550, and will probably be known that factory Harlay Hotel.

Thirty-three years that have passed in 1583, Piney Luxembourg, Duke
opulent of that age, bought and expanded the Harlay Hotel, now known
under the name Palace Luxembourg.

Pass during twenty years, Maria de 'Medici purchased at Duke for twenty thousand pounds, up a magnificent
building, which has reached our days, calling at that time Palace de 'Medici.
Queen Mary donated the palace to the Duke of Orleans, his second
son, and then Palace called Orleans.

After you buy the Duchesse de
Montpensier, Anne Marie Louise, the heroine of the Fronde, for five
hundred thousand pounds.

It then passes into the hands of the Duchess
of Guise and Alençon, in 1672.

Later, towards the end of the seventeenth
century, in 1694, was owned by Louis XIV.

Louis XVI subsequently
gave it to the Count of Provence, who reigned after the name Louis
XVIII.

Finally, came the revolutionary times, and the former palace
of Luxembourg, the heir of so many kings, so many intrigues, many
mysteries and many conflicts became a domestic farm.

Under the Convention,
became a state prison, which they were conducted Hebert, Danton, and
other famous personalities, including Robespierre.

Under the Directory,
the government lived near Luxembourg, and the darkness of prison happens,
the dazzling brightness of a castle, where Barras, Barras Republican
aristocrat, showed off all the pomp and dilapidated all the regency.

"Devil a heartier, barrin' my father, that's touched wid a loss of appetite afther his meals--ha,
ha, ha!"

"Musha, the dickens be an you, Condy, but you're your father's son, any way; the best company
in Europe is the same man. Throth, whether you're jokin' or not, I'd be sarry to hear of anything
to his disadvantage, dacent man. Boys, won't you go down to the other room?"

"Go way wid yez, boys, till I spake to Ellish here about the affairs o' the nation. Why, Ellish,
you stand the cut all to pieces. By the contints o' the book, you do; Pether doesn't stand
it half so well. How is he, the thief?"

"Throth, he's not well, to-day, in regard of a smotherin' about the heart he tuck this mornin'
afther his breakfast. He jist laid himself on the bed a while, to see if it would go off of
him--God be praised for all his marcies!"

"Thin, upon my solevation, I'm sarry to hear it, and so will all at home, for there's not in
the parish we're sittin' in a couple that our family has a greater regard an' friendship for,
than him and yourself. Faix, my modher, no longer ago than Friday night last, argued down Bartle
Meegan's throath, that you and Biddy Martin wor the two portliest weemen that comes into the
chapel. God forgive myself, I was near quarrelin' wid Bartle on the head of it, bekase I tuck
my modher's part, as I had a good right to do."

"Thrath, I'm thankful to you both, Condy, for your kindness."

"Oh, the sarra taste o' kindness was in it at all, Ellish, 'twas only the truth; an' as long
as I live, I'll stand up for that."

"Arrah, how is your aunt down at Carntall?"

"Indeed, thin, but middlin', not gettin' her health: she'll soon give the crow a puddin', any
way; thin, Ellish, you thief, I'm in for the yallow boys. Do you know thim that came in wid me?"

"Why, thin, I can't say I do. Who are they, Condy?"

"Why one o' them's a bachelor to my sisther Norah, a very dacent boy, indeed--him wid the frieze
jock upon him, an' the buckskin breeches. The other three's from Teernabraighera beyant. They're
related to my brother-in-law, Mick Dillon, by his first wife's brother-in-law's uncle. They're
come to this neighborhood till the 'Sizes, bad luck to them, goes over; for you see, they're
in a little throuble."

"The Lord grant them safe out of it, poor boys!"

"I brought them up here to treat them, poor fellows; an', Ellish, avourneen, you must credit
me for whatsomever we may have. The thruth is, you see, that when we left home, none of us
had any notion of drinkin' or I'd a put somethin' in my pocket, so that I'm taken at an average.--Bud-an'-age!
how is little Dan? Sowl, Ellish, that goorsoon, when he grows up, will be a credit to you.
I don't think there's a finer child in Europe of his age, so there isn't."

"Indeed, he's a good child, Condy. But Condy, avick, about givin' credit:--by thim five crasses,
if I could give score to any boy in the parish, it 'ud be to yourself. It was only last night
that I made a promise against doin' such a thing for man or mortual. We're a'most broken an'
harrish'd out o' house an' home by it; an' what's more, Condy, we intend to give up the business.
The landlord's at us every day for his rint, an' we owe for the two last kegs we got, but hasn't
a rap to meet aither o' thim; an' enough due to us if we could get it together: an' whisper,
Condy, atween ourselves, that's what ails Pettier, although he doesn't wish to let an to any
one about it."

"Well, but you know I'm safe, Ellish?"

"I know you are, avourneen, as the bank itself; an' should have what you want wid a heart an'
a half, only for the promise I made an my two knees last night, aginst givin' credit to man
or woman. Why the dickens didn't you come yistherday?"

"Didn't I tell you, woman alive, that it was by accident, an' that I wished to sarve the house,
that we came at all. Come, come, Ellish; don't disgrace me afore my sisther's bachelor an'
the sthrange boys that's to the fore. By this staff in my hand, I wouldn't for the best cow
in our byre be put to the blush afore thim; an' besides, there's a cleeveen (* a kind of indirect
relationship) atween your family an' ours."

"Condy, avourneen, say no more: if you were fed from the same breast wid me, I couldn't, nor
wouldn't break my promise. I wouldn't have the sin of it an me for the wealth o' the three
kingdoms."

"Beclad, you're a quare woman; an' only that my regard for you is great entirely, we would
be two, Ellish; but I know you're dacent still."

He then left her and joined his friends in the little room that was appropriated for drinking,
where, with a great deal of mirth, he related the failure of the plan they had formed for outwitting
Peter and Ellish.

"Boys," said he, "she's too many for us! St. Pettier himself wouldn't make a hand of her. Faix,
she's a cute one. I palavered her at the rate of a hunt, an' she ped me back in my own coin,
with dacent intherest--but no whiskey!--Now to take a rise out o' Pettier. Jist sit where ye
are, till I come back."

He left them enjoying the intended "spree," and went back to Ellish.

"Well, I'm sure, Ellish, if any one had tuck their book oath that you'd refuse my father's
son such a thrifle, I wouldn't believe them. It's not wid Pettier's knowledge you do it, I'll
be bound. But bad as you thrated us, sure we must see how the poor fellow is, at an rate."

As he spoke, and before Ellish had time to prevent him, he pressed into the room where Peter lay.

"Why, tare alive, Pether, is it in bed you are at this hour of the day?"

"Eh? Who's that--who's that? oh!"

"Why thin, the sarra lie undher you, is that the way wid you?"

"Oh!--oh! Eh? Is that Condy?"

"All that's to the fore of him. What's asthray wid you man alive?"

"Throth, Condy, I don't know, rightly. I went out, wantin' my coat, about a week ago, an' got
cowld in the small o' the back; I've a pain in it ever since. Be sittin'."

"Is your heart safe? You have no smotherin' or anything upon it?"

"Why thin, thank goodness, no; it's all about my back an' my inches."

"Divil a thing it is but a complaint they call an alloverness ails you, you shkaimer o' the
world wide. 'Tis the oil o' the hazel, or a rubbin' down wid an oak towel you want. Get up,
I say, or, by this an' by that, I'll flail you widin an inch o' your life."

"Is it beside yourself you are, Condy?"

"No, no, faix; I've found you out: Ellish is afther tellin' me that it was a smotherin' on
the heart; but it's a pain in the small o' the back wid yourself. Oh, you born desaver! Get
up, I say agin, afore I take the stick to you!"

"Why, thin, all sorts o' fortune to you, Condy--ha, ha, ha!--but you're the sarra's pet, for
there's no escapin' you. What was that I hard atween you an' Ellish?" said Peter, getting up.

"The sarra matther to you. If you behave yourself, we may let you into the wrong side o' the
sacret afore you die. Go an' get us a pint of what you know," replied Condy, as he and Peter
entered the kitchen.

"Ellish," said Peter, "I suppose we must give it to thim. Give it--give it, avourneen. Now,
Condy, whin 'ill you pay me for this?"

"Never fret yourself about that; you'll be ped. Honor bright, as the black said whin he stole
the boots."

"Now Pettier," said the wife, "sure it's no use axin' me to give it, afther the promise I made
last night. Give it yourself; for me, I'll have no hand in such things good or bad. I hope
we'll soon get out of it altogether, for myselfs sick an' sore of it, dear knows!"

Pettier accordingly furnished them with the liquor, and got a promise that Condy would certainly
pay him at mass on the following Sunday, which was only three days distant. The fun of the
boys was exuberant at Condy's success: they drank, and laughed, and sang, until pint after
pint followed in rapid succession.

Every additional inroad upon the keg brought a fresh groan from Ellish; and even Peter himself
began to look blank as their potations deepened. When the night was far advanced they departed,
after having first overwhelmed Ellish with professions of the warmest friendship, promising
that in future she exclusively should reap whatever benefit was to be derived from their patronage.

In the meantime, Condy forgot to perform his promise. The next Sunday passed, but Peter was
not paid, nor was his clever debtor seen at mass, or in the vicinity of the shebeen-house,
for many a month afterwards--an instance of ingratitude which mortified his creditor extremely.
The latter, who felt that it was a take in, resolved to cut short all hopes of obtaining credit
from them in future. In about a week after the foregoing hoax, he got up a board, presenting
a more vigorous refusal of score than the former. His friends, who were more in number than
he could have possibly imagined, on this occasion, were altogether wiped out of the exception.
The notice ran to the following effect:--

"Notice to the Public, and to Pether Connell's friends in particular.--Divil resave the morsel
of credit will be got or given in this house, while there is stick or stone of it together,
barrin' them that axes it has the ready money.

     "Pettier X his mark Connell,
     "Ellish X her mark Connell."

This regulation, considering everything, was a very proper one. It occasioned much mirth among
Peter's customers; but Peter cared little about that, provided he made the money.

The progress of his prosperity, dating it from so small a beginning, was decidedly slow. He
owed it principally to the careful habits of Ellish, and his own sobriety. He was prudent enough
to avoid placing any sign in his window, by which his house could be known as a shebeen; for
he was not ignorant that there is no class of men more learned in this species of hieroglyphics
than excisemen. At all events, he was prepared for them, had they come to examine his premises.
Nothing that could bring him within the law was ever kept visible. The cask that contained
the poteen was seldom a week in the same place of concealment, which was mostly, as we have
said, under ground. The tobacco was weighed and subdivided into small quantities, which, in
addition to what he carried in his pocket, were distributed in various crevices and crannies
of the house; sometimes under the thatch; sometimes under a dish on the dresser, but generally
in a damp place.

When they had been about two or three years thus employed, Peter, at the solicitation of the
wife, took a small farm.

"You're stout an' able," said she; "an' as I can manage the house widout you, wouldn't it be
a good plan to take a bit o' ground--nine or ten acres, suppose--an' thry your hand at it?
Sure you wor wanst the greatest man in the parish about a farm. Surely that 'ud be dacenter
nor to be slungein' about, invintin' truth and lies for other people, whin they're at their
work, to make thim laugh, an you doin' nothin' but standin' over thim, wid your hands down
to the bottom o' your pockets? Do, Pether, thry it, avick, an' you'll see it 'ill prosper wid
us, plase God?'

"Faix I'm ladin' an asier life, Ellish."

"But are you ladin' a dacenter or a more becominer life?"

"Why, I think, widout doubt, that it's more becominer to walk about like a gintleman, nor to
be workin' like a slave."

"Gintleman! Musha, is it to the fair you're bringin' yourself? Why, you great big bosthoon,
isn't it both a sin an' a shame to see you sailin' about among the neighbors, like a sthray
turkey, widout a hand's turn to do? But, any way, take my advice, avillish,--will you, aroon?--an'
faix you'll see how rich we'll get, wid a blessin'?"

"Ellish, you're a deludher!"

"Well, an' what suppose? To be sure I am. Usen't you be followin' me like a calf afther the
finger?--ha, ha, ha!--Will you do my biddin', Pether darlin'?"

Peter gave her a shrewd, significant wink, in contradiction to what he considered the degrading
comparison she had just made.

"Ellish, you're beside the mark, you beauty; always put the saddle on the right horse, woman
alive! Didn't you often an' I often swear to me, upon two green ribbons, acrass one another,
that you liked a red head best, an' that the redder it was you liked it the betther?"

"An' it was thruth, too; an' sure, by the same a token, whore could I get one half so red as
your own? Faix, I knew what I was about! I wouldn't give you yet for e'er a young man in the
parish, if I was a widow to-morrow. Will you take the land?"

"So thin, afther all, if the head hadn't been an me, I wouldn't be a favorite wid you?--ha,
ha, ha!"

"Get out wid you, and spake sinse. Throth, if you don't say aither ay or no, I'll give myself
no more bother about it, There we are now wid some guineas together, an'--Faix, Pettier, you're
vexin' me!"

"Do you want an answer?"

"Why, if it's plasin' to your honor, I'd have no objection."

"Well, will you have my new big coat made agin Shraft?" (* Shrovetide)

"Ay, will I, in case you do what I say; but if you don't the sarra stitch of it 'll go to your
back this twelvemonth, maybe, if you vex me. Now!"

"Well, I'll tell you what: my mind's made up--I will take the land; an' I'll show the neighbors
what Pether Connell can do yit."

"Augh! augh! mavoumeen, that you wor! Throth I'll fry a bit o' the bacon for our dinner to-day,
on the head o' that, although I didn't intind to touch it till Sunday. Ay, faix, an' a pair
o' stockins, too, along wid the coat; an' somethin' else, that you didn't hear of yit."

Ellish, in fact, was a perfect mistress of the science of wheedling; but as it appears instinctive
in the sex, this is not to be wondered at. Peter himself was easy, or rather indolent, till
properly excited by the influence of adequate motives; but no sooner were the energies that
slumbered in him called into activity, than he displayed a firmness of purpose, and a perseverance
in action, that amply repaid his exertions.

The first thing he did, after taking, his little farm, was to prepare for its proper cultivation,
and to stock it. His funds were not, however, sufficient for this at the time. A horse was
to be bought, but the last guinea they could spare had been already expended, and this purchase
was, therefore, out of the question. The usages of the small farmers, however, enabled him
to remedy this inconvenience. Peter made a bargain with a neighbor, in which he undertook to
repay him by an exchange of labor, for the use of his plough and horses in getting down his
crop. He engaged to give him, for a stated period in the slack season, so many days' mowing
as would cover the expenses of ploughing and harrowing his land. There was, however, a considerable
portion of his holding potato-ground; this Peter himself dug with his spade, breaking it as
he went along into fine mould. He then planted the seed--got a hatchet, and selecting the best
thorn-bush he could find, cut it down, tied a rope to the trunk, seized the rope, and in this
manner harrowed his potato-ground. Thus did he proceed, struggling to overcome difficulties
by skill, and substituting for the more efficient modes of husbandry, such rude artificial
resources as his want of capital compelled him to adopt.

In the meantime, Ellish, seeing Peter acquitting himself in his undertaking with such credit,
determined not to be outdone in her own department. She accordingly conceived the design of
extending her business, and widening the sphere of her exertions. This intention, however,
she kept secret from Peter, until by putting penny to penny, and shilling to shilling, she
was able to purchase a load of crockery. Here was a new source of profit opened exclusively
by her own address. Peter was astonished when he saw the car unloaded, and the crockery piled
in proud array by Ellish's own hands.

"I knew," said she, "I'd take a start out o' you. Faix, Pether, you'll see how I'll do, never
fear, wid the help o' Heaven! I'll be off to the market in the mornin', plase God, where I'll
sell rings around me * o' them crocks and pitchers. An' now, Pether, the sarra one o' me would
do this, good or bad, only bekase your managin' the farm so cleverly. Tady Gormley's goin'
to bring home his meal from the mill, and has promised to lave these in the market for me,
an' never fear but I'll get some o' the neighbors to bring them home, so that there's car-hire
saved. Faix, Pether, there's nothin' like givin' the people sweet words, any way; sure they
come chape."

     * This is a kind of hyperbole for selling a grout
     quantity.

"Faith, an' I'll back you for the sweet words agin any woman in the three kingdoms, Ellish,
you darlin'. But don't you know the proverb, 'sweet words butther no parsnips.'"

"In throth, the same proverb's a lyin' one, and ever was; but it's not parsnips I'll butther
wid 'em, you gommoch."

"Sowl, you butthered me wid 'em long enough, you deludher--devil a lie in it; but thin, as
you say, sure enough, I was no parsnip--not so soft as that either, you phanix."

"No? Thin I seldom seen your beautiful head without thinkin' of a carrot, an' it's well known
they're related--ha, ha, ha!--Behave, Pether--behave, I say--Pether, Pether--ha, ha, ha!--let
me alone! Katty Hacket, take him away from me--ha, ha, ha!"

"Will ever you, you shaver wid the tongue that you are? Will ever you, I say? Will ever you
make delusion to my head again--eh?"

"Oh, never, never--but let me go, an' me go full o' tickles! Oh, Pether, avourneen, don't,
you'll hurt me, an' the way I'm in--quit, avillish!"

"Bedad, if you don't let my head alone, I'll--will ever you?"

"Never, never. There now--ha, ha, ha!--oh, but I'm as wake as wather wid what I laughed. Well
now, Pether, didn't I manage bravely--didn't I?"

"Wait till we see the profits first, Ellish--crockery's very tindher goods."

"Ay!--just wait, an'I'll engage I'll turn the penny. The family's risin' wid us."--

"Very thrue," replied Peter, giving a sly wink at the wife--"no doubt of it."

"--Kisin' wid us--I tell you to have sinse, Pether; an' it's our duty to have something for
the crathurs when they grow up."

"Well, that's a thruth--sure I'm not sayin' against it."

"I know that; but what I say is, if we hould an, we may make money. Everything, for so far,
has thruv wid us, God be praised for it. There's another thing in my mind, that I'll be tellin'
you some o' these days."

"I believe, Ellish, you dhrame about makin' money."

"Well, an' I might do worse; when I'm dhramin' about it, I'm doin' no sin to any one. But,
listen, you must keep the house to-morrow while I'm at the market. Won't you, Pether?"

"An' who's to open the dhrain in the bottom below?"

"That can be done the day afther. Won't you, abouchal?"

"Ellish, you're a deludher, I tell you. Sweet words;--sowl, you'd smooth a furze bush wid sweet
words. How-an-ever, I will keep the house to-morrow, till we see the great things you'll do
wid your crockery."

Ellish's success was, to say the least of it, quite equal to, her expectations. She was certainly
an excellent wife, full of acuteness, industry, and enterprise. Had Peter been married to a
woman of a disposition resembling his own, it is probable that he would have sunk into indolence,
filth, and poverty, these miseries might have soured their tempers, and driven them into all
the low excesses and crimes attendant upon pauperism. Ellish, however, had sufficient spirit
to act upon Peter's natural indolence, so as to excite it to the proper pitch. Her mode of
operation was judiciously suited to his temper. Playfulness and kindness were the instruments
by which she managed him. She knew that violence, or the assumption of authority, would cause
a man who, like him, was stern when provoked, to react, and meet her with an assertion of his
rights and authority not to be trifled with. This she consequently avoided, not entirely from
any train of reasoning on the subject; but from that intuitive penetration which taught her
to know that the plan she had resorted to was best calculated to make him subservient to her
own purposes, without causing him to feel that he was governed.

Indeed, every day brought out her natural cleverness more clearly. Her intercourse with the
world afforded her that facility of understanding the tempers and dispositions of others, which
can never be acquired when it has not been bestowed as a natural gift. In her hands it was
a valuable one. By degrees her house improved in its appearance, both inside and outside. From
crockery she proceeded to herrings, then to salt, in each of which she dealt with surprising
success. There was, too, such an air of bustle, activity, and good-humor about her that people
loved to deal with her. Her appearance was striking, if not grotesque. She was tall and strong,
walked rapidly, and when engaged in fair or market disposing of her coarse merchandise, was
dressed in a short red petticoat, blue stockings, strong brogues, wore a blue cloak, with the
hood turned up, over her head, on the top of which was a man's hat, fastened by a, ribbon under
her chin. As she thus stirred about, with a kind word and a joke for every one, her healthy
cheek in full bloom, and her blue-gray eye beaming with an expression of fun and good-nature,
it would be difficult to conceive a character more adapted for intercourse with, a laughter-loving
people. In fact, she soon became a favorite, and this not the less that she was as ready to
meet her rivals in business with a blow as with a joke. Peter witnessed her success with unfeigned
pleasure; and although every feasible speculation was proposed by her, yet he never felt that
he was a mere nonentity when compared to his wife. 'Tis true, he was perfectly capable of executing
her agricultural plans when she proposed them, but his own capacity for making a lucky hit
was very limited. Of the two, she was certainly the better farmer; and scarcely an improvement
took place in his little holding which might not be traced to Ellish.

In the course of a couple of years she bought him a horse, and Peter was enabled, to join with
a neighbor, who had another. Each had a plough and tackle, so that here was a little team made
up, the half of which belonged to Peter. By this means they ploughed week about, until their
crops were got down. Peter finding his farm doing well, began to feel a kind of rivalship with
his wife--that is to say, she first suggested the principle, and afterwards contrived to make
him imagine that it was originally his own.

"The sarra one o' you, Pettier," she exclaimed to him one day, "but's batin' me out an' out.
Why, you're the very dickins at the farmin', so you are. Faix, I suppose, if you go an this
way much longer, that you'll be thinkin' of another farm, in regard that we have some guineas
together. Pettier, did you ever think of it, abouchal?"

"To be sure, I did, you beauty; an' amn't I in fifty notions to take Harry Neal's land, that
jist lies alongside of our own."

"Faix, an' you're right, maybe; but if it's strivin' again me you are, you may give it over:
I tell you, I'll have more money made afore this time twelvemonth than you will."

"Arrah, is it jokin' you are? More money? Would you advise me to take Harry's land? Tell me
that first, you phanix, an' thin I'm your man!"

"Faix, take your own coorse, avourneen. If you get a lase of it at a fair rint, I'll buy another
horse, any how. Isn't that doin' the thing dacent'?"

"More power to you, Ellish! I'll hold you a crown, I pay you the price o' the horse afore this
time twelvemonth."

"Done! The sarra be off me but done!--an' here's Barny Dillon an' Katty Hacket to bear witness."

"Sure enough we will," said Barny, the servant.

"I'll back the misthress any money," replied the maid.

"Two to one on the masther," said the man. "Whoo! our side o' the house for ever! Come, Pether,
hould up your head, there's money bid for you!"

"Ellish, I'll fight for you ankle deep," said Katty--"depind your life an me."

"In the name o' goodness, thin, it's a bargain," said Ellish; "an' at the end o' the year,
if we're spared, we'll see what we'll see. We'll have among ourselves a little sup o' tay,
plase goodness, an' we'll be comfortable. Now, Barny, go an' draw home thim phaties from the
pits while the day's fine; and Katty, a colleen, bring in some wather, till we get the pig
killed and scalded--it'll hardly have time to be good bacon for the big markets at Christmas.
I don't wish," she continued, "to keep it back from them that we have a thrifle o' money. One
always does betther when it's known that they're not strugglin'. There's Nelly Cummins, an'
her customers is lavin' her, an' dalin' wid me, bekase she's goin' down in business. Ay an',
Pether, ahagur, it's the way o' the world."

"Well but, Ellish, don't you be givin' Nelly Cummins the harsh word, or lanin' too heavily
upon her, the crathur, merely in regard that she is goin' down. Do you hear, acolleen?"

"Indeed I don't do it, Pether; but you know she has a tongue like a razor at times, and whin
it gets loose she'd provoke St. Pether himself. Thin she's takin' to the dhrink, too, the poor
misfortunate vagabone!"

"Well, well, that's no affair o' yours, or mine aither--only don't be risin' ructions and norrations
wid her. You threwn a jug at her the last day you war out, an' hot the poor ould Potticary
as he was passin'. You see I hard that, though you kept it close from me!--ha, ha, ha!"

"Ha, ha, ha!--why you'd split if you had seen the crathur whin he fell into Pether White's
brogue-creels, wid his heels up. But what right had she to be sthrivin' to bring away my customers
afore my face? Ailey Dogherty was buying a crock wid me, and Nelly shouts over to her from
where she sot like a queen on her stool, 'Ailey,' says she, 'here's a betther one for three
fardens less, an' another farden 'ill get you a pennorth o' salt.' An', indeed, Ailey walks
over, manely enough, an' tuck her at her word. Why, flesh an' blood couldn't bear it."

"Indeed, an' you're raal flesh and blood, Ellish, if that's thrue."

"Well, but consarnin' what I mintioned awhile agone--hut! the poor mad crathur, let us have
no more discoorse about her--I say, that no one ever thrives so well as when the world sees
that they are gettin' an, an' prosperin'; but if there's not an appearance, how will any one
know whether we are prosperin' or not, barrin' they see some sign of it about us; I mane, in
a quiet rasonable way, widout show or extravagance. In the name o' goodness, thin, let us get
the house brushed up, an' the outhouses dashed. A bushel or two of lime 'ill make this as white
as an egg widin, an' a very small expinse will get it plastered, and whitewashed widowt. Wouldn't
you like it, avourneen? Eh, Pether?"

"To be sure I'd like it. It'll give a respectful look to the house and place."

"Ay, an' it'll bring customers, that's the main thing. People always like to come to a snug,
comfortable place. An', plase God, I'm thinkin' of another plan that I'll soon mintion."

"An' what may that be, you skamer? Why, Ellish, you've ever and always some skam'e or other
in that head o' yours. For my part, I don't know how you get at them."

"Well, no matter, acushla, do you only back me; just show me how I ought to go on wid them,
for nobody can outdo you at such things, an' I'll engage we'll thrive yit, always wid a blessin'
an us."

"Why, to tell God's thruth, I'd bate the devil himself at plannin' out, an' bringin' a thing
to a conclusion--eh, you deludher?"

"The sarra doubt of it; but takin' the other farm was the brightest thought I seen wid you
yit. Will you do it, avillish?"

"To be sure. Don't I say it? An' it'll be up wid the lark wid me. Hut, woman, you don't see
the half o' what's in me, yet."

"I'll buy you a hat and a pair o' stockins at Christmas."

"Will you, Ellish? Then, by the book, I'll work like a horse."

"I didn't intind to tell you, but I had it laid out for you."

"Faith, you're a beauty, Ellish. What'll we call this young chap that's comin', acushla?"

"Now, Pether, none o' your capers. It's time enough when the thing happens to be thinkin' o'
that, Glory be to God!"

"Well, you may talk as you plase, but I'll call him Pether."

"An' how do you know but he'll be a girl, you omadhawn?"

"Murdher alive, ay, sure enough! Faith, I didn't think o' that!"

"Well, go up now an' spake to Misther Eccles about the land; maybe somebody else 'ud slip in
afore us, an' that wouldn't be pleasant. Here's your brave big coat, put it an; faix, it makes
a man of you--gives you a bodagh* look entirely; but that's little to what you'll be yet, wid
a blessin'--a Half-Sir, any way."

     * This word is used in Ireland sometimes in a good and
     sometimes in a bad sense. For instance, the peasantry
     will often say in allusion to some individual who may
     happen to be talked of, "Hut! he's a dirty bodagh;" but
     again, you may hear them use it in a sense directly the
     reverse of this; for instance, "He's a very dacent
     man, and looks the bodagh entirely." As to the "Half
     sir," he stands about half-way between the bodagh and
     the gentleman, Bodagh--signifying churl--was applied
     originally as a term of reproach to the English
     settlers.

In fact, Ellish's industry had already gained a character for both herself and her husband.
He got credit for the assiduity and activity to which she trained him: and both were respected
for their cleverness in advancing themselves from so poor a beginning to the humble state of
independence they had then reached. The farm which Ellish was so anxious to secure was the
property of the gentleman from whom they held the other. Being a man of sense and penetration,
he fortunately saw--what, indeed, was generally well known--that Peter and Ellish were rising
in the world, and that their elevation was the consequence of their own unceasing efforts to
become independent, so that industry is in every possible point of view its own reward. So
long as the farm was open to competition the offers for it multiplied prodigiously, and rose
in equal proportion. Persons not worth twenty shillings in the world offered double the rent
which the utmost stretch of ingenuity, even with suitable capital, could pay. New-married couples,
with nothing but the strong imaginative hopes peculiar to their country, proposed for it in
a most liberal spirit. Men who had been ejected out of their late farms for non-payment of
rent, were ready to cultivate this at a rent much above that which, on better land, they were
unable to pay. Others, who had been ejected from farm after farm--each of which they undertook
as a mere speculation, to furnish them with present subsistence, but without any ultimate expectation
of being able to meet their engagements--came forward with the most laudable efforts. This
gentleman, however, was none of those landlords who are so besotted and ignorant of their own
interests, as to let their lands simply to the highest bidders, without taking into consideration
their capital, moral character, and habits of industry. He resided at home, knew his tenants
personally, took an interest in their successes and difficulties, and instructed them in the
best modes of improving their farms.

Peter's first interview with him was not quite satisfactory on either side. The honest man
was like a ship without her rudder, when transacting business in the absence of his wife. The
fact was, that on seeing the high proposals which were sent in, he became alarmed lest, as
he flattered himself, that the credit of the transaction should be all his own, the farm might
go into the hands of another, and his character for cleverness suffer with Ellish. The landlord
was somewhat astounded at the rent which a man who bore so high a name for prudence offered
him. He knew it was considerably beyond what the land was worth, and he did not wish that any
tenant coming upon his estate should have no other prospect than that of gradually receding
into insolvency.

"I cannot give you any answer now," said he to Peter; "but if you will call in a day or two
I shall let you know my final determination."

Peter, on coming home, rendered an account of his interview with the landlord to his wife,
who no sooner heard of the extravagant proposal he made, than she raised her hands and eyes,
exclaiming--

"Why, thin, Pether, alanna, was it beside yourself you wor, to go for to offer a rint that
no one could honestly pay! Why, man alive, it 'ud lave us widout house or home in do time,
all out! Sure Pettier, acushla, where 'ud be the use of us or any one takin' land, barrin'
they could make somethin' by it? Faix, if the gintleman had sinse, he wouldn't give the same
farm to anybody at sich a rint; an' for good rasons too--bekase they could never pay it, an'
himself 'ud be the sufferer in the long run."

"Dang me, but you're the long-headedest woman alive this day, Ellish. Why, I never wanst wint
into the rason o' the thing, at all. But you don't know the offers he got."

"Don't I? Why do you think he'd let the Mullins, or the Conlans, or the O'Donog-hoes, or the
Duffys, upon his land, widout a shillin' in one o' their pockets to stock it, or to begin workin'
it properly wid. Hand me my cloak from the pin there, an' get your hat. Katty, avourneen, have
an eye to the house till we come back; an' if Dick Murphy comes here to get tobaccy on score,
tell him I can't afford it, till he pays up what he got. Come, Pether, in the name o' goodness--come,
abouchal."

Ellish, during their short journey to the landlord's, commenced, in her own way, a lecture
upon agricultural economy, which, though plain and unvarnished, contained excellent and practical
sense. She also pointed out to him when to speak and when to be silent; told him what rent
to offer, and in what manner he should offer it; but she did all this so dexterously and sweetly,
that honest Peter thought the new and corrected views which she furnished him with, were altogether
the result of his own penetration. The landlord was at home when they arrived, and ordered
them into the parlor, where he soon made his appearance.

"Well, Connell," said he, smiling, "are you come to make me a higher offer?"

"Why thin no, plase your honor," replied Peter, looking for confidence to Ellish: "instead
o' that, sir, Ellish here--"

"Never heed me, alanna; tell his honor what you've to say, out o' the face. Go an acushla."

"Why, your honor, to tell the blessed thruth, the dickens a bit o' myself but had a sup in
my head when I was wid your honor to-day before."

Ellish was thunderstruck at this most unexpected apology from Peter; but the fact was, that
the instructions which she had given him on their way had completely evaporated from his brain,
and he felt himself thrown altogether upon his own powers of invention. Here, however, he was
at home; for it was well known among all his acquaintances, that, however he might be deficient
in the management of a family when compared to his wife, he was capable, notwithstanding, of
exerting a certain imaginative faculty in a very high degree. Ellish felt that to contradict
him on the spot must lessen both him and herself in the opinion of the landlord, a circumstance
that would have given her much pain.

"I'm sorry to hear that, Connell," said Mr. Eccles; "you bear the character of being strictly
sober in your habits. You must have been early at the bottle, too, which makes your apology
rather unhappy. Of all tipplers, he who drinks early is the worst and most incurable."

"Thrue for you, sir, but this only happens me wanst a year, your honor."

"Once a year! But, by the by, you had no appearance of being tipsy, Peter."

"Tipsy! Bud-a'-age, your honor, I was never seen tipsy in all my life," said Peter,--"That's
a horse of another color, sir, plase your honor."

The reader must at once perceive that Peter here was only recovering himself from the effects
of the injurious impression which his first admission was calculated to produce against him
in the mind of his landlord. "Tipsy! No, no, sir; but the rason of it, sir, was this: it bein'
my birthday, sir, I merely tuck a sup in the mornin', in honor o' the day. It was liberal, but undeterred we fear to do good to ungrateful fulfilling the
great commandment of Zoroaster, who says: "Give food to the dogs" Quando you eat, even bite you
"after." Quanto was wise man can be, for he tried live in the company of the sages had learned
the science of the Chaldeans, and was instructed in quanto about the physical principles of nature
in his time was known, and metaphysics quanto knew everything at all times have known, that is to say
very little. Most firmly believed that a year has three hundred sixty-five days and a quarter, against
what he taught modern philosophy of his time, and that was the sun in the center of the world,
and when the main magicians told him in a tone of reproach, and looking sideways, that sustained
early sapient haeresim, and that only an enemy of God and the state could say that the sun revolved
about its exe, and that was the year of twelve months, Zadig was silent, without frown or shrug
shoulders.

Opulent, and therefore not lacking friends, enjoying health, being handsome, wise and moderate,
with chest naive, and elevated mood, thought he could aspire to be happy. Was bespoken Semira her marriage,
which her beauty, her dowry, and his birthplace, was the best wedding Babylon. Zadig Profesábale
a sincere and virtuous love, and Semira loved him with passion. Verged and the happy day that
would link them, when two lovers walking outside Gates of Babylon, Baxo some palms that shaded
the banks of the Euphrates, they saw approached by men armed with cutlass and arrows. These
were some of the youth executioners Orcan, nephew of a minister, and as such the sycophants
of his uncle he had been persuaded to which they could do quanto he pleased. None of the clothing
and possessed virtues of Zadig; but believed that long preceded him, was in despair at not
being the favorite. These jealousies, mere children of his vanity made him believe he was in love
Semira, and wanted to steal it. Habíanla caught the robbers, and the outburst of violence had
hurt her, pouring the blood of a person who by his presence Imao tigers would have tamed the
mountain. Pierced Semira the sky with their cries, crying, Dear Husband, I have to whom ye I love it!
Not moved the danger in which he was, as his dear Zadig alone in thought. Defendíala this with
all the boldness of love and courage, and with the help of two slaves drove alone to the robbers,
and he brought to Semira bloody and faint, that opened my eyes met their freedom. O Zadig!
said to him, I loved like my husband, and now I want like that life whom I am indebted and honored.
Never overflowed one breast more tender affection than Semira, never so pretty mouth spoke so
vividly of those expressions swollen that the gratitude of the highest benefit and the most
tender affection of most legitimate abductions are children. His wound was slight, and he
recovered soon. Zadig was wounded in greater danger, because an arrow had made a deep wound near
the eye. Semira importuned to the Gods the cure of her lover: Day and night eyes bathed in
tears, waited impatiently Zadig moment that they could enjoy in looking at, but a boil that
formed in the injured eye caused the greatest fear. Memphis would send and invite famous physician
to Hermes, who came with a swollen entourage, and having visited the patient stated that inevitably
perdia the eye, predicting up to the day and time that had happened so fatal dismantling. If there
been, he said, the right eye, I would heal, but the wounds of the left have no cure. All Babylon
hurt the fate of Zadig, while it was amazed at the profound science Hermes. Two days after the
boil burst naturally, and healed Zadig. Hermes wrote a book, proving that there should be healed,
the qual Zadig did not read, but then he could out, went to see who expected that of happiness,
and who only wanted to have eyes, he found himself in his fifth Semira three days to, and knew
the road Zadig, who, after to declare resolutely that he had an invincible antipathy to the
one-eyed, beautiful lady Orcan had married that night. Desmayóse to hear this news, and was in
no that your pain will conduxera the tomb, but after a long illness, but the reason could that
feeling, and it was no small part of the same atrocity comfort of the grievance. Well I am
a victim, he said, of so cruel whim of a woman raised in the palace, I will marry a daughter
of a respectable neighbor. Chosen because of Azor wife, a damsel very sane and best nature,
in whom there is any defect noticed more nothingness, and there is little inclination to believe
The cutest boys were always the most wise and virtuous.

CHAPTER II

Noses.

One day she returned from walking Azora all immutable and decomposed by gestures: What are you, dear?
Zadig said to him, what is so far beyond what you made thee? Ay! replied Azora same hicieras
you, if you had seen the scene I just witnessed, had gone to console Cosrúa to the young widow has
erected two days ago, a mausoleum of the deceased young man, husband yours, it is the stream
that bathes the prairie, swearing to the gods, in their pain, they would not depart in the vicinity
of this tomb, whilst the stream is not moved its flow. Well done, 'said Zadig, that's a sign
that a woman is well, that really loved her husband. Ha, replied Azora, if you knew it was his occupation
Quando qual went to see her .-- Qual era, beautiful Azora? - Dar another channel for the stream.
Azora then added many invectives, burst into such a bitter accusations against the widow girl,
who under very upset to Zadig as boastful. A friend of his named Er, was one of the waiters who
was said Azora by merit and integrity more than others, Zadig she trusted him his secret, hold,
in quanto he was able, with Quanti loyalty gifts. Azora After spending two days in a villa of
her friend returned to his home the third. The servants told him crying that night had fallen
dead suddenly her husband, who had not dared to bring bad news, that ended Zadig to bury in
the tomb of his parents at the end of the garden. Azora cried, mesábase hair, and swore he
did not want to live. That night asked permission to speak Cador with her, and wept both. The
next day I cry less, and ate together. Cador Fiole that he had forsaken his friend most of
his wealth, and gave him to understand that their greatest that would be able to part with it.
That the lady wept, was angry, and then subsided; and as the dinner was longer than the food,
speak both with more confidence. He Azores eulogy of the deceased, confessed, however, that
suffered from some small defects in Cador were not.

In the middle of supper Cador complained of intense pain in the spleen,
and the lady concerned and scared traxeran you sent all that is perfumed
with essences, to test whether any remedy was a against the pains
of the spleen; feeling much he had gone already wise Babylon Hermes,
and deigning to touch the side where Cador felt such great pain.

Do you usually I give you this pain so cruel? said to him compassionately. Two fingers of the grave
makes me sometimes, replied Cador, and there is only one remedy for relief, which is applied to
the cost the face of a man who died the day before. Bizarre choice! he said Azora. There is more
rare, said Cador, the horns of deer that put children to preserve the evil eye. The latter
reason with the waiter a lot of merit determined after the lady. Finally, he said, if my husband's
nose is a little shorter in the second life that the first, not that he has to keep out the
angel Asrael, when crossing the bridge Sebinavar, to move from the world of yesterday morning.
Saying this, he took a knife, went near the grave of her husband bañándole into tears, and to
cut off the noses Baxo; but Zadig who was lying in the grave, one hand clutching his nose, and
diverting the knife with the other, rose suddenly exclaimed, again do not say much bad about
Cosrúa, that the idea of ​​cutting my nose well they can gamble in moving to the current a
stream.

CHAPTER III.

The dog and horse.

Zadig soon saw that, as the book of Zenda-Vesta, if the first month
of marriage is the honeymoon, the second is that of aloes.

Very quickly saw himself compelled to repudiate the Azores, which
had become unbearable, and tried to be happy studying nature.

There be more fortunate, he said, that the philosopher who studied the great book of God in the eyes
men. The truths he discovers are his property, supports and enhances your mood, and lives in quiet,
without fear of others, and without the coming of his tender wife to cut off noses.

Steeped in these ideas, retreated to fifth on the banks of the Euphrates, which was not involved
to calculate quantas inches of water pass each second Baxo the arches of a bridge, or whether
month mouse cubic rain water line more than the ram, or devised to
make silk with cobwebs, or porcelain with broken bottles, studying,
yes, the properties of animals and plants, and soon grangeó a sagacity
that made him play thousands of differences where others saw only
uniformity.

A day strolling beside a grove, he saw a eunuch come running from the Queen, accompanied several
employees of the palace, all seemed full of anxiety, and ran everywhere like hell they're looking
for the most precious thing they have lost. Mancebo, told him the main eunuch, Did you see the queen's
dog? Zadig answered modestly: no dog is bitch.

You are right, "said the chief eunuch. It is a very small fine bitch, Zadig continued, that has
borne little has, coxa of the left foot forward, and has very long ears. How that you have
seen? he said the first eunuch beside himself. Certainly not, "replied Zadig, or I have seen
or knew that the queen had no dog.

Pass that by a quirk of chance had been missed at the same time the hands of a groom of the king
the best horse in the royal stables, and were running for plain of Babylon. Iban behind him
the Horse and all his subordinates to not less urgency that the chief
eunuch behind the dog, the groom He went to Zadig, and asked if he
had seen the king's horse.

That is a horse, 'said Zadig, who has the best canter six feet tall, the tiny hoof, tail and
fourth long pole, the snack gold brake is twenty-three carats, and eleven silver horseshoe
money. Why where has it gone? Where is it? asked the equerry. Nor have I seen, "said Zadig,
or I have never heard of him.

Or to the Horse or the chief eunuch was clear that they had stolen the horse Zadig the king
and queen bitch, conduxeronle it to the assembly of large Desterham, which sentenced to two
hundred lashes and six years in prison. No sooner had given the sentence, when seemed the
horse and the dog, so that judges were in the painful precision to
cancel his sentence, he nevertheless condemned Zadig to a fine of
four hundred ounces of gold, because he had seen had said Queno having
seen.

First paid the fine, and then allowed pleyto defend against the advice of the great Desterliam,
where he said this:

Astros justice founts of knowledge, mirrors of truth, which lead to the seriousness of Unix the
hardness of iron, the brightness of the diamond, and no little affinity with gold, allowed siéndome
speak before this August assembly, I swear by Orosmades, have never seen nor respectable dog of the
Queen, nor the sacred horse of the king of kings. The event has been
like going to count.

Walking walking in the grove where he later met the venerable eunuch, and the illustrious groom
higher. Observed in the sand the tracks of an animal, and easily met was a small dog. Long and
thin grooves, printed in heaps of sand between the tracks of the feet I made it known that
was a bitch, and her tits hung, where I gathered that he had calved a few days to. Other remains
in another direction, which always look flush dexaban sand beside the front foot, showed me that he
had long ears, and as the footsteps of one foot were less deep in the sand than the other three,
pulled by consequence it was, if I dared to speak, a little bitch coxa of our August queen.

In quanto a horse of the king of kings, the truth is that pacing the sidewalks of the forest,
I noticed the signs of the hoofs of a horse, they were all at the same distance. This horse, dixe,
has the perfect canter. In a narrow road that has no more than two and a half yards wide, was at left
and right to sweep the dust in some Parages.

The horse, I guess I have a glue stick and fourth, with its moves to right and to left, has
swept this dust. Vnder trees forming a canopy of two yards high, were freshly fallen leaves of
the branches, and knew that he had forsaken down the horse, which therefore had two Yaras.
Your brakes must be gold of twenty-three carats, because, having scrubbed his head against
a stone snack I've seen was playing, I did the test. Finally, brands that have forsaken the
horseshoes on rocks other species have proved that I was eleven silver money.

Abode stunned all the judges with astute sense to Zadig, and the news came the king and queen.
In lobbies, rooms, cabinets and did not speak more than Zadig, and King ordered him to be A
REFUND OF THE fine of four hundred ounces of gold they had been sentenced since there were
few magicians burn opinion as a sorcerer.

They went with great pomp home to the clerk of the cause, sheriffs and prosecutors, to take their
four hundred ounces, not save costs by more than three hundred ninety-eight clerks truth is
that They asked for a gratuity.

Zadig was looking very dangerous thing to know too much, made firm resolution not to say On another
occasion I had ever seen, and the occasion was not long in coming. A state inmate escaped, and passed
vnder Zadig balconies.

They took the statement as he had not declared nothing, and having established that he had out
on the balcony, was sentenced by size Crime do to pay five hundred ounces gold, and thanked
the judges for their great kindness, that this was the custom in Babylon, Great God, he said Zadig
each other, which unfortunately is who walks in the woods where you pass the King's horse,
or the dog of the Queen! What Hazard, who runs his balcony overlooks! How very difficult it
is to be happy in this life!

CHAPTER IV.

The envious.

Zadig appealed to friendship and comfort to the philosophy for the ills that had made the fortune.
In a suburb of Babylon had a house furnished with much taste, and there met arts and recreation worthy
of a fine man. In the morning his library was open for all the wise and evening his table to
persons of good education. But very soon he perceived it was too dangerous to try to scholars.
Suscitóse a fierce debate about a law of Zoroaster, which forbids eating faucet. "As they
are not the faucet, said one, if no such animal? Force is that it has, said others, when you
do not want Zoroaster eat. Zadig, by them comply, he said to them: I do not eat faucet, if there
are taps, and if not available, we will eat less, and thus to obey
Zoroaster.

There was a wise writer who had composed a work in thirteen folio volumes about properties of
the taps, great Theurgists, which went to all haste to submit to the Archmage Drastanés, the
most foolish, and consequence to the most fanatic of the Chaldeans to those remote times. In
honor and glory of the Sun, would have this sent to impale Zadig, and then prayed breviary of Zoroaster
with more pious compunction. His friend Cador (a friend is worth more than a hundred priests)
went to see the old Drastanés, and told him this: Glory to the Sun and faucets; nobody touch
the hair to Zadig, who was a saint, and has taps in his yard, not eat: his accuser himself, which
is a heretic. Why, has not substantiated that are neither filthy nor the solipeds Rabbits? Well,
well, he said Drastanés, trembling, shaking his head, to Zadig has been of impaling, because
they have misconceptions about the glyphs, and other, because he has spoken without regard
to rabbits. Cador Apaciguólo all through a palace toilet girl, whom he had fact a boy, had much
the qual influx with the school of wizards, and not impaled to anyone, the murmured something
many doctors, and therefore decline and the next Babylon. Zadig was
saying: How does happiness figure?

All the earth haunts me up Imaginary Beings, and cursing of the wise, decided to stick to live with
people fine.

Reuníanse at home the finest treatment sugetos of Babylon, and the kindest ladies; servíanse fine
dining, but sometimes preceded the academies, and encouraged friendly conversations, that no
one aspired to drive them out of acute, which is half very certain
to be a fool, and tarnish the most brilliant gatherings.

Dishes and friends were not chosen by the pride that all preferred the appearance of reality,
and thus a robust estimate grange by That same least she aspired.

He lived in front of his house a certain Arimazo, sugeto carrying the perversity of his courage in recorded
physiognomy: corroíale envy, and bursting with vanity, separate dexando was one presumed to know
annoying. As the fine people made fun of him, he retaliated speaking ill of them. With difficulty sycophants
met at his house because he was rich. Importunábale the noise of cars entering the night with Zadig,
but most of it annoyed the heard him praise. Sometimes went to his house, and sat at the table
without getting "invites corrupting the joy of the whole company, as they say it infects the
food harpies they touch. He was succeeded by one day we wanted to give a banquet to a lady,
who, rather than admit, went to dinner with Zadig, and again, with both speaking at the palace,
it was a minister that he invited Zadig to supper, and not told him anything to Arimazo. In
such weak foundations lie at times the most cruel enemy.

This man, surnamed Babylon envious wanted Zadig upset because he called the blessed. A hundred
times a day, says Zoroaster, opportunity is to do harm, and to do well just once a year.

He went home to envious Zadig, And he was walking through the gardens with two friends and
a lady who claimed to some flowers, not another soul to be said. We tried a war that had just
ended with joy the king to the prince of Hircania, his feudal lord. Zadig that in this short
war had given repeated evidence of value, to much acclaim the king and the queen still more.
He took his book from memory, and four verses he wrote in suddenly, he gave to reading his beautiful
hostess, but though his friends begged him they are read, out of modesty, or perhaps by a
very discreet self, he would not: that well knew that the verses of sudden events are only good
for those for whom it is made. Tore it in two leaf memorandum book in which he had written, and
pulled the two pieces to a bower of roses, where it was in vain look for them. Soon began to
drizzle and they all returned to the classrooms, but the envious who had stayed in the garden,
both recorded that gave with one half of the leaf, the qual was torn so that half of each line that
was filled a row direction, and even a short verse, and most foreign
is that, by a perhaps even more extraordinary, the meaning of such
verses were short infectivity was an atrocious against the king.

     Leíase them:
     
     A nasty monster Today governing
     the Chaldean; His throne invincible The ugly power itself,

For the
first time in his life he thought happily envious, having to lose
a man of good and friendly.

Horrible drunk in joy, went to the same king the satire written Zadig feathered, And he, with
his two friends and the lady was taken to jail, and was formed because, without being worthy
of hearing him. Stood the envious, when he had sentenced in the way which was to pass, and
told him that his verses were worthless. Not missed Zadig of poet felt yet in the soul be condemned
as guilty of lese-majesty, and dexar two friends and a beautiful lady in jail for a crime he
did not commit. Not allowed claim anything in his defense, because the book of memory was clear,
and that this was the style Babylon. Then walked to the scaffold, through vast ranks of people curious,
none dared to sympathize with him, but thronged to consider which side pony, and if it was
to die with the breath. His relatives were the only mourn, for they did not inherit, having confiscated
three-fourths of its flow to the Exchequer, and the rest to the envious.

While it was preparing to die, the bird flew from the balcony of the king, and came to rest roses
in the garden of Zadig.

The wind had knocked down a peach of a tree immediately which had fallen on a piece of a written
memorandum book, and he had stuck. Grabbed the parrot peach with writing and took it all to the knees
of the king. This curious read some words that meant nothing, and seemed the end of verse. As he
was fond to poetry, and you can always get something with the princes who love songs, gave to
think about the adventure of the parrot. We agreed then the queen of what was in the piece
of Zadig memory book, ordered him to be traxesen, and comparing the two pieces was seen to leave
each other, and the verses of Zadig, read as he had written were the following:

A nasty monster is the bloody war Today alone governs the Chaldean king without frights: Irresistible
love his throne is on earth; Ugly power who does not enjoy the same
tastes.

     
     
     When he ordered the king to Zadig traxeran his presence,
     and out of prison to his two friends and the beautiful lady.

He fell to the ground face Zadig to the king and plants the queen, he entreated her pardon
humbly for the bad poetry he had composed, and spoke with such Donayre, wisdom and wit, that
the monarchs would again see him, turned, and like best. We award the property of the envious
that he had wrongly accused: the restored Zadig all, and only affect the heart of his accuser
was the joy of not losing what they had. Day by day is increasing appreciation that King of Zadig
to: convidábale to all his recreations, and consulted him on all issues. Since that time the
queen began to regard him with complacency that could have serious dangers to her, to her August husband,
Zadig and the entire kingdom, and Zadig to believe that it is not difficult thing to live happily.

CHAPTER
V.

Generous.

Then came the era of the celebrity of a solemn festival to which every five years, because it
was Babylon style solemnly declare, after five years, citizens qual had made the most generous
action. The judges were great and wise men. He stated the first Satrap charge of city government,
the most illustrious actions done in time of his government and the judges voted, and the
king pronounced the decision. End of ground spectators flocked to this solemnity.
 Let not our readers, however, condemn
them for this.

It was the act of society, and not of Peter and Ellish. On their parts, it was involuntary;
their circumstances raised them, and they were compelled, of course, to rise with their circumstances.
They were passing through the journey of life, as it were, and those with whom they set out,
not having been able to keep up with them, soon lost their companionship, which was given to
those with whom they travelled for the time being. Society is always ready to reward the enterprising
and industrious by its just honors, whether they are sought or not; it is so disposed, that
every man falls or rises into his proper place in it, and that by the wisdom and harmony of
its structure. The rake, who dissipates by profligacy and extravagance that which might have
secured him an honorable place in life, is eventually brought to the work-house; whilst the
active citizen, who realizes an honest independence, is viewed with honor and esteem.

Peter and Ellish were now people of consequence in the parish; the former had ceased to do
anything more than superintend the cultivation of his farms; the latter still took an active
part in her own business, or rather in the various departments of business Which she carried
on. Peter might be seen the first man abroad in the morning proceeding to some of his farms
mounted upon a good horse, comfortably dressed in top boots, stout corduroy breeches, buff
cashmere waistcoat, and blue broad-cloth coat, to which in winter was added a strong frieze
greatcoat, with a drab velvet collar, and a glazed hat. Ellish was also respectably dressed,
but still considerably under her circumstances. Her mode of travelling to fairs or markets
was either upon a common car, covered with a feather-bed and quilt, or behind Peter upon a
pillion. This last method flattered Peter's vanity very much; no man could ride on these occasions
with a statelier air. He kept himself as erect and stiff as a poker, and brandished the thong
of his loaded whip with the pride of a gentleman farmer.

'Tis true, he did not always hear the sarcastic remarks which were passed upon him by those
who witnessed his good-natured vanity:

"There he goes," some laboring man on the wayside would exclaim, "a purse-proud bodagh upon
our hands. Why, thin, does he forget that we remimber when he kept the shebeen-house, an' sould
his smuggled to-baccy in gits (* the smallest possible quantities) out of his pocket, for fraid
o' the gauger! Sowl, he'd show a blue nose, any way, only for the wife--'Twas she made a man
of him."

"Faith, an' I for one, won't hear Pether Connell run down," his companion would reply; "he's
a good-hearted, honest man, an' obligin' enough; an' for that matter so is the wife, a hard
honest woman, that made what they have, an' brought herself an' her husband from nothin' to
somethin'."

"Thrue for you, Tim; in throth, they do desarve credit. Still, you see, here's you an' me,
an' we've both been slavin' ourselves as much as they have, an' yet you see how we are! However,
its their luck, and there's no use in begrudgin' it to them."

When their children were full-grown, the mother did not, as might have been supposed, prevent
them from making a respectable appearance. With excellent judgment, she tempered their dress,
circumstances, and prospects so well together, that the family presented an admirable display
of economy, and a decent sense of independence. From the moment they were able to furnish solid
proofs of their ability to give a comfortable dinner occasionally, the priest of the parish
began to notice them; and this new intimacy, warmed by the honor conferred on one side, and
by the good dinners on the other, ripened into a strong friendship. For many a long year, neither
Peter nor Ellish, God forgive them, ever troubled themselves about going to their duty. They
soon became, however, persons of too much importance to be damned without an effort made for
their salvation. The worthy gentleman accordingly addressed them on the subject, and as the
matter was one of perfect indifference to both, they had not the slightest hesitation to go
to confession--in compliment to the priest. We do not blame the priest for this; God forbid
that we should quarrel with a man for loving a good dinner. If we ourselves were a priest,
it is very probable,--nay, from the zest with which we approach a good dinner, it is quite
certain--that we would have cultivated honest Peter's acquaintance, and drawn him out to the
practice of that most social of virtues--hospitality. The salvation of such a man's soul was
worth looking after; and, indeed, we find a much warmer interest felt, in all churches, for
those who are able to give good dinners, than for those poor miserable sinners who can scarcely
get even a bad one.

But besides this, there was another reason for the Rev. Mr. Mulcahy's anxiety to cultivate
a friendship with Peter and his wife--which reason consisted in a very laudable determination
to bring about a match between his own niece, Miss Granua Mulcahy, and Peter's eldest son,
Dan. This speculation he had not yet broached to the family, except by broken hints, and jocular
allusions to the very flattering proposals that had been made by many substantial young men
for Miss Granua.

In the mean time the wealth of the Connells had accumulated to thousands; their business in
the linen and woollen drapery line was incredible. There was scarcely a gentleman within many
miles of them, who did not find it his interest to give them his custom. In the hardware, flour,
and baking concerns they were equally fortunate. The report of their wealth had gone far and
near, exaggerated, however, as everything of the kind is certain to be; but still there were
ample grounds for estimating it at a very high amount.

Their stores were large, and well filled with many a valuable bale; their cellars well stocked
with every description of spirits; and their shop, though not large in proportion to their
transactions, was well filled, neat, and tastefully fitted up. There was no show, however--no
empty glare to catch the eye; on the contrary, the whole concern was marked by an air of solid,
warm comfort, that was much more indicative of wealth and independence than tawdry embellishment
would have been.

"Avourneen," said Ellish, "the way to deck out your shop is to keep the best of goods. Wanst
the people knows that they'll get betther money-worth here than they'll get anywhere else,
they'll come here, whether the shop looks well or ill. Not savin' but every shop ought to be
clane an' dacent, for there's rason in all things."

This, indeed, was another secret of their success. Every article in their shop was of the best
description, having been selected by Ellish's own eye and hand in the metropolis, or imported
directly from the place of its manufacture. Her periodical visits to Dublin gave her great
satisfaction; for it appears that those with whom she dealt, having had sufficient discrimination
to appreciate her talents and integrity, treated her with marked respect.

Peter's farm-yard bore much greater evidence of his wealth than did Ellish's shop. It was certainly
surprising to reflect, that by the capacity of two illiterate persons, who began the world
with nothing, all the best and latest improvements in farming were either adopted or anticipated.
The farmyard was upon a great scale; for Peter cultivated no less than four hundred acres of
land--to such lengths had his enterprise carried him. Threshing machines, large barns, corn
kilns, large stacks, extensive stables, and immense cow-houses, together with the incessant
din of active employment perpetually going on--all gave a very high opinion of their great
prosperity, and certainly reflected honor upon those whose exertions had created such a scene
about them. One would naturally suppose, when the family of the Connells had arrived to such
unexpected riches, and found it necessary to conduct a system whose machinery was so complicated
and extensive that Ellish would have fallen back to the simple details of business, from a
deficiency of that comprehensive intelligence which is requisite to conduct the higher order
of mercantile transactions; especially as her sons were admirably qualified by practice, example,
and education, to ease her of a task which would appear one of too much difficulty for an unlettered
farmer's wife. Such a supposition would be injurious to this excellent woman. So far from this
being the case, she was still the moving spirit, the chief conductor of the establishment.
Whenever any difficulty arose that required an effort of ingenuity and sagacity, she was able
in the homeliest words to disentangle it so happily, that those who heard her wondered that
it should at all have appeared to them as a difficulty. She was everywhere. In Peter's farm-yard
her advice was as excellent and as useful as in her own shop. On his farms she was the better
agriculturist, and she frequently set him right in his plans and speculations for the ensuing year.

She herself was not ignorant of her skill. Many a time has she surveyed the scene about her
with an eye in which something like conscious pride might be seen to kindle. On those occasions
she usually shook her head, and exclaimed, either in soliloquy, or by way of dialogue, to some
person near her:--

"Well, avourneen, all's very right, an' goin' an bravely; but I only hope that when I'm gone
I won't be missed!"

"Missed," Peter would reply, if he happened to hear her; "oh, upon my credit"--he was a man
of too much consequence to swear "by this and by that" now--"upon my credit, Ellish, if you
die soon, you'll see the genteel wife I'll have in your place."

"Whisht, avourneen! Although you're but jokin', I don't like to hear it, avillish! No, indeed;
we wor too long together, Pether, and lived too happily wid one another, for you to have the
heart to think of sich a thing!"

"No, in troth, Ellish, I would be long sarry to do it. It's displasin' to you, achree, an'
I won't say it. God spare you to us! It was you put the bone in us, an' that's what all the
country says, big an' little, young and ould; an' God He knows it's truth, and nothin' else."

"Indeed, no, thin, Pether, it's not altogether thruth, you desarve your full share of it. You
backed me well, acushla, in everything, an' if you had been a dhrinkin', idle, rollikin' vagabone,
what 'ud signify all, that me or the likes o' me could do."

"Faith, an' it was you made me what I am, Ellish; you tuck the soft side o' me, you beauty;
an' it's well you did, for by this--hem, upon my reputation, if you had gone to cross purposes
with me you'd find yourself in the wrong box. An', you phanix of beauty, you managed the childhre,
the crathurs, the same way--an' a good way it is, in throth."

"Pether, wor you ever thinkin' o' Father Muloahy's sweetness to us of late?"

"No, thin, the sorra one o' me thought of it. Why, Ellish?"

"Didn't you obsarve that for the last three or four months he's full of attintions to us? Every
Sunday he brings you up, an' me, if I'd go, to the althar,--an' keeps you there by way of showin'
you respect. Pether, it's not you, but your money he respects; an' I think there ought to be
no respect o' persons in the chapel, any how. You're not a bit nearer God by bein' near the
althar; for how do we know but the poorest crathur there is nearer to heaven than we are!"

"Faith, sure enough, Ellish; but what deep skame are you penethratin' now, you desaver?"

"I'd lay my life, you'll have a proposial o' marriage from Father Mulcahy, atween our Dan an'
Miss Granua. For many a day he's hintin' to us, from time to time, about the great offers she
had; now what's the rason, if she had these great offers, that he didn't take them?"

"Bedad, Ellish, you're the greatest headpiece in all Europe. Murdher alive, woman, what a fine
counsellor you'd make. An' suppose he did offer, Ellish, what 'ud you be sayin' to him?"

"Why, that 'ud depind entirely upon what he's able to give her--they say he has money. It 'ud
depind, too, upon whether Dan has any likin' for her or not."

"He's often wid her, I know; an' I needn't tell you, Ellish, that afore we wor spliced together,
I was often wid somebody that I won't mintion. At all evints, he has made Dan put the big O
afore the Connell, so that he has him now full namesake to the Counsellor; an', faith, that
itself' 'ud get him a wife."

"Well, the best way is to say nothin', an' to hear nothin', till his Reverence spates out,
an' thin we'll see what can be done."

Ellish's sagacity had not misled her. In a few months afterwards Father Mulcahy was asked by
young Dan Connell to dine; and as he and holiest Ellish were sitting together, in the course
of the evening, the priest broached the topic as follows:--

"Mrs. Connell, I think this whiskey is better than my four-year old, that I bought at the auction
the other day, although Dan says mine's better. Between ourselves, that Dan is a clever, talented
young fellow; and if he happens upon a steady, sensible wife, there is no doubt but he will
die a respectable man. But, by the by, Mrs. Connell, you've never tried my whiskey; and upon
my credit, you must soon, for I know your opinion would decide the question."

"Is it worth while to decide it, your Reverence? I suppose the thruth is, sir, that both is
good enough for anyone; an' I think that's as much as we want."

Thus far she went, but never alluded to Dan, judiciously throwing the onus of introducing that
subject upon the priest.

"Dan says mine's better," observed Father Mulcahy; "and I would certainly give a great deal
for his opinion upon that or any other subject, except theology."

"You ought," replied Ellish, "to be a bether judge of whiskey nor either Dan nor me; an' I'll
tell you why--you dhrink it in more places, and can make comparishment one wid another; but
Dan an' me is confined mostly to our own, an' of that same we take very little, an' the less
the betther for people in business, or indeed for anybody."

"Very true, Mrs. Connell! But for all that, I won't give up Dan's judgment in anything within
his own line of business, still excepting theology, for which, he hasn't the learning."

"He's a good son, without tayology--as good as ever broke the world's bread," said Peter, "glory
be to God! Although, for that matther, he ought to be as well acquainted wid tayology as your
Reverence, in regard that he sells more of it nor you do."

"A good son, they say, Mrs. Connell, will make a good husband. I wonder you don't think of
settling him in life. It's full time."

"Father, avourneen, we must lave that wid himself. I needn't be tellin' you, that it 'ud be
hard to find a girl able to bring what the girl that 'ud expect Dan ought to bring."

This was a staggerer to the priest, who recruited his ingenuity by drinking Peter's health,
and Ellish's.

"Have you nobody in your eye for him, Mrs. Connell?"

"Faith, I'll engage she has," replied Peter, with a ludicrous grin--"I'll venture for to say
she has that."

"Very right, Mrs. Connell; it's all fair. Might one ask who she is; for, to tell you the truth,
Dan is a favorite of mine, and must make it a point to see him well settled."

"Why, your Reverence," replied Peter again, "jist the one you mintioned."

"Who? I? Why I mentioned nobody."

"An' that's the very one she has in her eye for him, plase your Reverence--ha, ha, ha! What's
the world widout a joke, Docthor? beggin' your pardon for makin' so free wid you."

"Peter, you're still a wag," replied the priest; "but, seriously, Mrs. Connell, have you selected
any female, of respectable connections, as a likely person to be a wife for Dan?"

"Indeed no, your Reverence, I have not. Where could I pitch upon a girl--barrin' a Protestant,
an' that 'ud never do--who has a fortune to meet what Dan's to get?"

The priest moved his chair a little, and drank their healths a second time.

"But you know, Mrs. Connell, that Dan needn't care so much about fortune, if he got a girl
of respectable connections. He has an independence himself."

"Thrue for you, father; but what right would any girl have to expect to be supported by the
hard arnin' of me an' my husband, widout bringin' somethin' forrid herself? You know, sir,
that the fortune always goes wid the wife; but am I to fortune off my son to a girl that has
nothin'? If my son, plase your Reverence, hadn't a coat to his back, or a guinea in his pocket--as,
God be praised, he has both--but, supposin' he hadn't, what right would he have to expect a
girl wid a handsome fortune to marry him? There's Paddy Neil your sarvint-boy; now, if Paddy,
who's an honest man's son, axed your niece, wouldn't you be apt to lose your timper?"

"I beg your pardon, Mrs. Connell, I think your fire's rather hot--allow me to drawback a little.
Mrs. Connell, your health again!--Mr. Connell, your fireside!"

"Thank you, Docthor; but faith I think you ought hardly to dhrink the same fireside, becase
it appears to be rather hot for your Reverence, at the present time--ha, ha, ha! Jokin' still,
Docthor, we must be. Well, what harm! I wish we may never do worse!"

"And what fortune would you expect with a girl of genteel connexion--a girl that's accomplished,
well say in music, plain work, and Irish, vernacularly?--hem! What fortune would you be expecting
with such a girl?"

"Why, Docthor, ahagur, the only music I'd wish for my son's wife is a good timper; an' that's
what their music-masthers can't tache thim. The plain work, although I don't know what you
mane by it, sounds well enough; an' as to Irish, whick-whacku-larly, if you mane our own ould
tongue, he may get thousands that can spake it whackinly, an' nothin' else."

"You're a wealthy woman, certainly, Mrs. Connell, and what's more, I'm not at all surprised
at it. Your health, once more, and long life to you! Suppose, however, that Dan got a fitting
wife, what would you expect as a proper portion? I have a reason for asking."

"Dan, plase your Reverence, will get four thousand to begin the world wid; an', as he's to
expect none but a Catholic, I suppose if he gets the fourth part of that, it's as much as he
ought to look for."

"A thousand pounds!--hut tut! The woman's beside herself. Why look about you and try where
you can find a Catholic girl with a thousand pounds fortune, except in a gentleman's family,
where Dan could never think of going."

"That's thrue, any how, your Reverence," observed Peter.--"A thousand pounds! Ellish! you needn't
look for it. Where is it to be had out of a gintleman's family, as his Reverence says thrue
enough."

"An' now, Docthor," said Ellish, "what 'ud you think a girl ought to bring a young man like
Dan, that's to have four thousand pounds?"

"I don't think any Catholic girl of his own rank in the county, could get more than a couple
of hundred."

"That's one shillin' to every pound he has," replied Ellish, almost instantaneously. "But,
Father, you may as well spake out at wanst," she continued, for she was too quick and direct
in all her dealings to be annoyed by circumlocution; "you're desairous of a match between Dan
an' Miss Granua?"

"Exactly," said the priest; "and what is more, I believe they are fond of each other. I know
Dan is attached to her, for he told me so. But, now that we have mentioned her, I say that
there is not a more accomplished girl of her persuasion in the parish we sit in. She can play
on the bagpipes better than any other piper in the province, for I taught her myself; and I
tell you that in a respectable man's wife a knowledge of music is a desirable thing. It's hard
to tell, Mrs. Connell, how they may rise in the World, and get into fashionable company, so
that accomplishments, you persave, are good, she can make a shirt and wash it, and she can
write Irish. As for dancing, I only wish you'd see her at a hornpipe. All these things put
together, along with her genteel connections, and the prospect of what I may be able to lave
her--I say your son may do worse."

"It's not what you'd lave her, sir, but what you'd give her in the first place, that I'd like
to hear. Spake up, your Reverence, an' let us know how far you will go."

"I'm afeard, sir," said Peter, "if it goes to a clane bargain atween yez, that Ellish will
make you bid up for Dan. Be sharp; sir, or you'll have no chance; faix, you won't."

"But, Mrs. Connell;" replied the priest, "before I spake up, consider her accomplishments.
I'll undertake to say, that the best bred girl in Dublin cannot perform music in such style,
or on such an instrument as the one she uses. Let us contemplate Dan and her after marriage,
in an elegant house, and full business, the dinner over, and they gone up to the drawing-room.
Think how agreeable and graceful it would be for Mrs. Daniel O'Connell to repair to the sofa,
among a few respectable friends, and, taking up her bagpipes, set her elbow a-going, until
the drone gives two or three broken groans, and the chanter a squeak or two, like a child in
the cholic, or a cat that you had trampled on by accident. Then comes the real ould Irish music,
that warms the heart. Dan looks upon her graceful position, until the tears of love, taste,
and admiration are coming down his cheeks. By and by, the toe of him moves: here another foot
is going; and, in no time, there is a hearty dance, with a light heart and a good conscience.
You or I, perhaps, drop in to see them, and, of course, we partake of the enjoyment."

"Divil a pleasanter," said Peter: "I tell you, I'd like it well; an', for my own part, if the
deludher here has no objection, I'm not goin' to spoil sport."

Ellish looked hard at the priest; her keen blue eye glittered with a sparkling light, that
gave decided proofs of her sagacity being intensely excited.

"All that you've said," she replied, "is very fine; but in regard o' the bag-pipes, an' Miss
Granua Mulcahy's squeezin' the music out o' thim--why, if it plased God to bring my son to
the staff an' bag--a common beggar--indeed, in that case, Miss Granua's bagpipes might sarve
both o' thim, an' help, maybe, to get them a night's lodgin' or so; but until that time comes,
if you respect your niece, you'll burn her bagpipes, dhrone, chanther, an' all. If you are
for a match, which I doubt, spake out, as I said, and say what fortune you'll pay down on the
nail wid her, otherwise we're losin' our time, an' that's a loss one can't make up."

The priest, who thought he could have bantered Ellish into an alliance, without pledging himself
to pay any specific fortune, found that it was necessary for him to treat the matter seriously,
if he expected to succeed. He was certainly anxious for the match; and as he really wished
to see his niece--who, in truth, was an excellent girl, and handsome--well settled, he resolved
to make a stretch and secure Dan if possible.

"Mrs. Connell," said he, "I will be brief with you. The most I can give her is three hundred
pounds, and even that by struggling and borrowing: I will undertake to pay it as you say--on
the nail! for I am really anxious that my niece should be connected with so worthy and industrious
a family. What do you say?"

"I'm willin' enough," replied Peter. It's not asy to get that and a Catholic girl."

"There's some thruth in what you say, aroon, sure enough," observed Ellish; "an' if his Reverence
puts another hundhre to it, why, in the name of goodness, let them go together. If you don't
choose that, Docthor, never breathe the subject to me agin. Dan's not an ould man yit, an'
has time enough to get wives in plenty."

"Come," replied the priest, "there's my hand, it's a bargain; although I must say there's no
removing you from your point. I will give four hundred, hook or crook; but I'll have sad scrambling
to get it together. Still I'll make it good."

"Down on the nail?" inquired Ellish.

"Ay! ay! Down on the nail," replied the priest.

"Well, in the name o' Goodness, a bargain be it," said Peter; "but, upon my credit, Ellish,
I won't have the bag-pipes burnt, anyhow. Faith, I must hear an odd tune, now an' thin, when
I call to see the childhre."

"Pether, acushla, have sinse. Would you wish to see your daughter-in-law playin' upon the bag-pipes,
when she ought to be mindin' her business, or attendin' her childhre? No, your Reverence, the
pipes must be laid aside. I'll have no pipery connection for a son of mine."

The priest consented to this, although Peter conceded it with great reluctance. Further preliminaries
were agreed upon, and the evening passed pleasantly, until it became necessary for Mr. Mulcahy
to bid them good-night.

When they were gone, Peter and Ellish talked over the matter between themselves in the following
dialogue:

"The fortune's a small one," said Ellish to her husband; "an' I suppose you wondher that I
consinted to take so little."

"Sure enough, I wondhered at it," replied Peter, "but, for my own part, I'd give my son to
her widout a penny o' fortune, in ordher to be connected wid the priest; an' besides, she's
a fine, handsome, good girl--ay, an' his fill of a wife, if she had but the shift to her back."

"Four hundhre wid a priest's niece, Pether, is before double the money wid any other. Don't
you know, that when they set up for themselves, he can bring the custom of the whole parish
to them? It's unknown the number o' ways he can sarve them in. Sure, at stations an' weddins,
wakes, marriages, and funerals, they'll all be proud to let the priest know that they purchased
whatever they wanted from his niece an' her husband. Betther!--faix, four hundhre from him
is worth three times as much from another."

"Glory to you, Ellish!--bright an' cute for ever! Why, I'd back you for a woman' that could
buy an' sell Europe, aginst the world. Now, isn't it odd that I never think of these long-headed
skames?"

"Ay do you, often enough, Pether; but you keep them to yourself, abouchal."

"Faith, I'm close, no doubt of it; an'--but there's no use in sayin' any more about it--you
said whatsomever came into my own head consarnin' it. Faith, you did, you phanix."

In a short time the marriage took place.

Dan, under the advice of his mother, purchased a piece of ground most advantageously located,
as the site of a mill, whereon an excellent one was built; and as a good mill had been long
a desideratum in the country, his success was far beyond his expectations. Every speculation,
in fact, which Ellish touched, prospered. Fortune seemed to take delight, either in accomplishing
or anticipating her wishes. At least, such was the general opinion, although nothing could
possibly be more erroneous than to attribute her success to mere chance. The secret of all
might be ascribed to her good sense, and her exact knowledge of the precise moment when to
take the tide of fortune at its flow. Her son, in addition to the mill, opened an extensive
mercantile establishment in the next town, where he had ample cause to bless the instructions
of his mother, and her foresight in calculating upon the advantage of being married to the
priest's niece.

Soon after his marriage, the person who had for many years kept the head inn of the next town
died, and the establishment was advertised for sale. Ellish was immediately in action. Here
was an opportunity of establishing the second son in a situation which had enabled the late
proprietor of it to die nearly the richest man in the parish. A few days, therefore, before
that specified for the sale, she took her featherbed car, and had an interview with the executors
of the late proprietor. Her character was known, her judgment and integrity duly estimated,
and, perhaps, what was the weightiest argument in her favor, her purse was forthcoming to complete
the offer she had made. After some private conversation between the executors, her proposal
was accepted, and before she returned home, the head inn, together with its fixtures and furniture,
was her property.

The second son, who was called after his father, received the intelligence with delight. One
of his sisters was, at his mother's suggestion, appointed to conduct the housekeeping department,
and keep the bar, a duty for which she was pretty well qualified by her experience at home.

"I will paint it in great style," said Peter the Younger. "It must be a head Inn no longer;
I'll call it a Hotel, for that's the whole fashion."

"It wants little, avourneen," said his mother; "it was well kept--some paintin' an other improvements
it does want, but don't be extravagant. Have it clane an' dacent, but, above all things, comfortable,
an' the attindance good. That's what'll carry you, an--not a flourish o' paintin' outside,
an' dirt, an' confusion, an' bad attindance widin. Considher, Pether darlin', that the man
who owned it last, feathered his nest well in it, but never called it a Hotill. Let it appear
on the outside jist as your old customers used to see it; but improve it widin as much as you
can, widout bein' lavish an it, or takin' up the place wid nonsense."

"At all evints, I'll have a picture of the Liberator over the door, an' O'Connell' written
under it. It's both our names, and besides it will be 'killin' two birds with one stone.'"

"No, avourneen. Let me advise you, if you wish to prosper in life, to keep yourself out of
party-work. It only stands betune you an' your business; an' it's surely wiser for you to mind
your own affairs than the affairs of the nation. There's rason in everything. No man in trade
has a right, widout committin' a sin, to neglect his family for politics or parties. There's
Jack Cummins that was doin' well in his groceries till he began to make speeches, an' get up
public meetins, an' write petitions, an' now he has nothin' to throuble him but politics, for
his business is gone. Every one has liberty to think as they plase. We can't expect Protestants
to think as we do, nor Protestants can't suppose that we ought to think as they'd wish; an'
for that same rason, we should make allowance on both sides, an' not be like many we know,
that have their minds up, expectin' they don't know, what, instead of workin' for themselves
and their families as they ought to do. Pether, won't you give that up, avillish?"

"I believe you're right, mother. I didn't see it before in the light you've placed it in."

"Then, Pether darlin', lose no time in gettin' into your place--you an' Alley; an' faix, if
you don't both manage it cleverly, I'll never spake to yez."

Here was a second son settled, and nothing remained but to dispose of their two daughters in
marriage to the best and most advantageous offers. This, in consequences of their large fortunes,
was not a matter of much difficulty. The eldest, Alley, who assisted her brother to conduct
the Inn, became the wife of an extensive grazier, who lived in an adjoining county. The younger,
Mary, was joined to Father Mulcahy's nephew, not altogether to the satisfaction of the mother,
who feared that two establishments of the same kind, in the same parish, supported by the same
patronage, must thrive at the expense of each other. As it was something of a love-match, however,
she ultimately consented.

"Avourneen," said she, "the parish is big enough, an' has customers enough to support two o'
them; an' I'll engage his Reverence will do what he can for them both."

In the meantime, neither she nor her husband was dependent upon their children. Peter still
kept the agricultural department in operation; and although the shop and warehouse were transferred
to Mr. Mulcahy, in right of his wife, yet it was under the condition of paying a yearly sum
to Mrs. Connell and her husband, ostensibly as a provision, but really as a spur to their exertions.
A provision they could not want, for their wealth still amounted to thousands, independently
of the large annual profits arising out of their farms.

For some time after the marriage of her youngest daughter, Mrs. Connell took a very active
part in her son-in-law's affairs. He possessed neither experience, nor any knowledge of business
whatsoever, though he was not deficient in education, nor in capacity to acquire both. This
pleased Mrs. Connell very much, who set herself to the task of instructing him in the principles
of commercial life, and in the best methods of transacting business.

"The first rules," said she to him, "for you to obsarve is these: tell truth; be sober; be
punctual; rise early; persavere; avoid extravagance; keep your word; an watch your health.
Next: don't be proud; give no offince; talk sweetly; be ready to oblage, when you can do it
widout inconvanience, but don't put yourself or your business out o' your ways to sarve anybody.

"Thirdly: keep an appearance of substance an' comfort about your place, but don't go beyant
your manes in doin' it; when you make a bargain, think what a corrocther them you dale wid
bears, an' whether or not you found them honest before, if you ever had business wid them.

"When you buy a thing, appear to know your own mind, an' don't be hummin' an' hawin', an' higglin',
an' longin' as if your teeth wor watherin' afther it; but be manly, downright, an' quick; they'll
then see that you know your business, an' they won't be keepin' off an' an, but will close
wid you at wanst.

"Never drink at bargain makin'; an' never pay money in a public-house if you can help it; if
you must do it, go into an inn, or a house that you know to be dacent.

"Never stay out late in a fair or market; don't make a poor mouth; on the other hand, don't
boast of your wealth; keep no low company; don't be rubbin' yourself against your betthers,
but keep wid your aquils. File your loose papers an' accounts, an' keep your books up to the
day. Never put off anything that can be done, when it ought to be done. Go early to bed; but
be the last up at night, and the first in the mornin', and there's no fear o' you."

Having now settled all her children in comfort and independence, with each a prospect of rising
still higher in the world, Mrs. Connell felt that the principal duties devolving upon her had
been discharged. It was but reasonable, she thought, that, after the toil of a busy life, her
husband and herself should relax a little, and enjoy with lighter minds the ease for which
they had labored so long and unremittingly.

"Do you know what I'm thinkin' of, Pether?" said she, one summer evening in their farm-yard.

"Know, is it?" replied Peter--"some long-headed plan that none of us 'ud ever think of, but
that will stare us in the face the moment you mintion it. What is it, you ould sprig o' beauty?"

"Why, to get a snug jauntin'-car, for you an' me. I'd like to see you comfortable in your old
days, Peter. You're gettin' stiff, ahagur, an' will be good for nothin' by an' by."

"Stiff! Arrah, by this an' by--my reputation, I'm younger nor e'er a one o' my sons yet, you----eh?"
said Peter, pausing--

"Faith, then I dunna that. Upon my credit, I think, on second thoughts, that a car 'ud be a
mighty comfortable thing for me. Faith, I do, an' for you, too, Ellish."

"The common car," she continued, "is slow and throublesome, an' joults the life out o' me."

"By my reputation, you're not the same woman since you began to use it, that you wor before
at all. Why, it'll shorten your life. The pillion's dacent enough; but the jauntin'-car!--faix,
it's what 'ud make a fresh woman o' you--divil a lie in it."

"You're not puttin' in a word for yourself now, Pether?"

"To be sure I am, an' for both of us. I'd surely be proud to see yourself an' myself sittin'
in our glory upon our own jauntin'-car. Sure we can afford it, an' ought to have it, too. Bud-an'-ager!
what's the rason I didn't, think of it long ago?"

"Maybe you did, acushla; but you forgot, it. Wasn't that the way wid you, Pether? Tell the thruth."

"Why, thin, bad luck to the lie in it, since you must know. About this time twelve months--no,
faix, I'm wrong, it was afore Dan's marriage--I had thoughts o' spakin' ta you about it, but
somehow it left my head. Upon my word, I'm in airnest, Ellish."

"Well, avick, make your mind asy; I'll have one from Dublin in less nor a fortnight. I can
thin go about of an odd time, an' see how Dan an' Pether's comin' an. It'll be a pleasure to
me to advise an' direct them, sure, as far an' as well as I can. I only hope? God will enable
thim to do as much for their childher, as he enabled us to do for them, glory be to his name!"

Peter's eye rested upon her as she spoke--a slight shade passed over his face, but it was the
symptom of deep feeling and affection, whose current had run smooth and unbroken during the
whole life they had spent together.

"Ellish," said he, in a tone of voice that strongly expressed what he felt, "you wor one o'
the best wives that ever the Almighty gev to mortual man. You wor, avourneen---you wor, you wor!"

"I intind, too, to begin an' make my sowl, a little," she continued; "we had so much to do,
Pether, aroon, that, indeed, we hadn't time to think of it all along; but now, that everything
else is settled, we ought to think about that, an' make the most of our time--while we can."

"Upon my conscience, I've strong notions myself o' the same thing," replied Peter. "An' I'll
back you in that, as well as in every thing else. Never fear, if we pull together, but we'll
bring up the lost time. Faith, we will! Sowl, if you set about it, let me see them that 'ud
prevint you goin' to heaven!"

"Did Paddy Donovan get the bay filly's foot aised, Pether?"

"He's gone down wid her to the forge: the poor crathur was very lame to-day."

"That's right; an' let Andy Murtagh bring down the sacks from Drumdough early to-morrow. That
what ought to go to the market on Thursday, an' the other stacks ought to be thrashed out of hand."

"Well, well; so it will be all done. Tare alive! if myself knows how you're able to keep an
eye on everything. Come in, an' let us have our tay."

For a few months after this, Ellish was perfectly in her element. Now I'm telling you now that last time I will make my words come to you, even from
afar, God will forgive me if I am happy to remember my loss, not for weeping and wailing sorry, but
to delight and honor Me with their memory. All the austerity of my life for twenty years, my first
love, gently preserved in memory with religious zeal and pure as the sacred fire smoldering in
the ashes of ara, and my pride and respect due to my name that I have been honest and chaste
decorum midwife, all faded and died in my soul to see your face and hearing your words, perhaps
from the first time I hablastes. Do not think I obfuscate, which blinded me and I did not understand
from the moment the intensity and ugliness of my sin and the almost irresistible impulse fouling
that I wore. Appeared clear in my mind that I'd love inspired, abominable and how did the great
difference in our age, that to become more self on your wife or girlfriend, to provide, in relation
to you for spiritual way, the chaste mother nature clean.

"I, however, knew not resist.

It was my passion so intense that not only useless, stupid and vulgar I found the resistance. Even
in the same delay, I saw some mean and rude appeared in my mind as cold artifice and studied
prudery of woman who longs to sell more faces its niceties and enhance more than just the price
and worth of favors delaying the grant them. No wonder then that, due and rendered me fall
into your arms of course without defending, and I give my heart and be all yours.

"Had I wanted to gloss over the slope before it had felt to you, imagining vivid portrait of
the man whom I had loved in my early youthful days, and who had wept long years after his death.
But I soon discarded this idea, considering you coward hypocrisy with which my understanding, more
subtle liar who was trying to mitigate the powerful vicious attempt at my will. No: I do not
like D. Jaime, but a thousand times better than him. His image etched in my soul, not faded and
disappeared well did your image affixed to it, a seal and mark of slavery that makes it yours
forever. Neither fear of slander, nor the hateful thoughts to yourself that could despising
and me for a light, nothing stopped me. The force, however, was not enough to stop the edge of the
abyss and to save the fall, has earned me then to physically break loop, to run away from you,
to get up hurt and penitent and seek refuge in this retreat. I could not be rightfully yours.
Living in any other way at your side, have been scandal shame and embarrassment. The wise advice
of my confessor, who dominate the blush ignited and burned my face, I showed the wound of my
soul that heal, and balsam of our holy religion which he poured into the wound, gave me encouragement
and spirit to break chains that had me trapped, to turn away from me and then make the determination
I've taken.

"God in his infinite mercy will forgive myself.

So I fail to not. Now I turn to you, come to my mind, the turban and full of bitter delight those
moments drunken love and total abandon that I was all for you and I thought it was you all mine.

"I'm
Determined to restore with prayer, Christian meditation and penance awful hard Under ruin
my disbanded.

I am humbled and contrite, and yet not feel in me repentance. To my mind flock ideas and reasons,
if not to justify, to excuse in part my sin, and when not to absolve, to mitigate the sentence
that condemns me.

"A crazy look indifferent to what I tell you. Despite your modesty, you must believe me. Something
supernatural, heaven no doubt in origin, but twisted and perverted after through hell, has been
the mainspring of my crush and my sudden weakness. I sense, to see and hear, failed to explain
the strange manner of prophetic revelation what profound conviction that faith and hope in
what your future secure and sovereign destinations. Yes, I have loved you only in your person the
dashing young man and flourishing in all the freshness and freshness of their age first.
 This, at any time, would
have been to her a difficult victory to achieve; but now, when stunned by the stroke of disease,
and confused by the pangs of severe suffering, tortured by a feverish pulse and a burning brain,
to expect that she could experience the calm hopes of religion, or feel the soothing power
of Christian sorrow, was utter folly. 'Tis true, her life had been a harmless one: her example,
as an industrious and enterprising member of society, was worthy of imitation. She was an excellent
mother, a good neighbor, and an admirable wife; but the duties arising out of these different
relations of life, were all made subservient to, and mixed up with, her great principle of
advancing herself in the world, whilst that which is to come never engaged one moment's serious
consideration.

When Father Mulcahy came to administer the rites of the church to Ellish, he found her in a
state of incoherency. Occasional gleams of reason broke out through the cloud that obscured
her intellect, but they carried with them the marks of a mind knit indissolubly to wealth and
aggrandizement. The same tenor of thought, and the same broken fragments of ambitious speculation,
floated in rapid confusion through the tempests of delirium which swept with awful darkness
over her spirit.

"Mrs. Connell," said he, "can you collect yourself? Strive to compose your mind, so far as
to be able to receive the aids of religion."

"Oh, oh!--my blood's boilin'! Is that--is that Father Mulcahy?"

"It is, dear: strive now to keep your mind calm, till you prepare yourself for judgment."

"Keep up his head, Paddy--keep up his head, or he'll be smothered undher the wather an' the
sludge. Here, Mike, take this rope: pull, man,--pull, or the horse will be lost! Oh, my head!--I'm
boilin'--I'm burnin'!"

"Mrs. Connell, let me entreat you to remember that you are on the point of death, and should
raise your heart to God, for the pardon and remission of your sins."

"Oh! Father dear, I neglected that, but I intinded--I intinded--Where's Pether!--bring, bring--Pether
to me!"

"Turn your thoughts to God, now, my dear. Are you clear enough in your mind for confession?"

"I am, Father! I am, avourneen. Come, come here, Pether! Pether, I'm goin' to lave you, asthore
machree! I could part wid them all but--but you."

"Mrs. Connell, for Heaven's sake."--.

"Is this--is this--Father Mulcahy? Oh! I'm ill--ill!"--

"It is, dear; it is. Compose yourself and confess your sins."

"Where's Mary? She'll neglect--neglect to lay in a stock o' linen, although I--I--Oh, Father,
avourneen! won't you pity me! I'm sick--oh, I'm very sick!"

"You are, dear--you are, God help you, very sick, but you'll be better soon. Could you confess,
dear?--do you think you could?"

"Oh, this pain--this pain!--it's killin' me!--Pether--Pether, a suillish, machree, (* The light
of my heart) have, have you des--have you desarted me."

The priest, conjecturing that if Peter made his appearance she might feel soothed, and perhaps
sufficiently composed to confess, called him in from the next room.

"Here's Peter," said the priest, presenting him to her view--"Here's Peter, dear."

"Oh! what a load is on me! this pain--this pain is killin' me--won't you bring me, Pether?
Oh, what will I do? Who's there?"

The mental pangs of poor Peter were, perhaps, equal in intensity to those which she suffered
physically.

"Ellish," said he, in smothered sobs--"Ellish, acushla machree, sure I'm wid you here; here
I'm sittin' on the bed wid you, achora machree."

"Catch my hand, thin. Ah, Pether! won't you pity your Ellish?--Won't you pity me--won't you
pity me? Oh! this pain--this pain--is killin' me!"

"It is, it is, my heart's delight--it's killin' us both. Oh, Ellish, Ellish! I wish I was dead
sooner nor see you in this agony. I ever loved you!--I ever an' always loved you, avourneen
dheelish; but now I would give my heart's best blood, if it'ud save you. Here's Father Mulcahy
come."

"About the mon--about the money--Pether--what do you intind----Oh! my blood--my blood's a-fire!--Mother
o'Heaven!--Oh! this pain is--is takin' me from all--faix!--Rise me up!"

"Here, my darlin'--treasure o' my heart here--I'm puttin' your head upon my breast--upon my
breast, Ellish, ahagur. Marciful Virgin--Father dear," said Peter, bursting into bitter tears--"her
head's like fire! O! Ellish, Ellish, Ellish!--but my heart's brakin' to feel this! Have marcy
on her, sweet God--have marcy on her! Bear witness, Father of heaven--bear witness, an' hear
the vow of a brakin' heart. I here solemnly promise before God, to make, if I'm spared life
an' health to do it, a Station on my bare feet to Lough Derg, if it plases you, sweet Father
o' pity, to spare her to me this day! Oh! but the hand o' God, Father dear, is terrible!--feel
her brow!--Oh! but it's terrible!"

"It is terrible," said the priest; "and terribly is it laid upon her, poor woman! Peter, do
not let this scene be lost. Remember it."

"Oh, Father dear, can I ever forget it?--can I ever forget seein' my darlin' in sich agony?"

"Pether," said the sick woman, "will you get the car ready for to-mor--to-morrow--till I look
at that piece o' land that Dan bought, before he--he closes the bargain?"

"Father, jewel!" said Pether, "can't you get the world banished out of her heart? Oh, I'd give
all I'm worth to see that heart fixed upon God! I could bear to part wid her, for she must
die some time; but to go wid this world's thoughts an' timptations ragin' strong in her heart--mockin'
God, an' hope, an' religion, an' everything:--oh!--that I can't bear! Sweet Jasus, change her
heart!--Queen o' Heaven, have pity on her, an' save her!"

The husband wept with great sorrow as he uttered these words.

"Neither reasoning nor admonition can avail her," replied the priest; "she is so incoherent
that no train of thought is continued for a single minute in her mind. I will, however, address
her again. Mrs. Connell, will you make a straggle to pay attention to me for a few minutes?
Are you not afraid to meet God? You are about to die!--prepare yourself for judgment."

"Oh, Father dear! I can't--I can't--I am af--afraid--Hooh!--hooh!--God! You must do some thin'for--for
me! I never done anything for myself."

"Glory be to God! that she has that much sinse, any way," exclaimed her husband. "Father, ahagur,
I trust my vow was heard."

"Well, my dear--listen to me," continued the priest--"can you not make the best confession
possible? Could you calm yourself for it?"

"Pether, avick machree--Pether,"--

"Ellish, avourneen, I'm here!--my darlin', I am your vick machree, an' ever was. Oh, Father!
my heart's brakin'! I can't bear to part wid her. Father of heaven, pity us this day of throuble?"

"Be near me, Pether; stay wid me--I'm very lonely. Is this you keepin' my head up?"

"It is, it is! I'll never lave you till--till"--

"Is the carman come from Dublin wid--wid the broadcloth?"

"Father of heaven! she's gone back again!" exclaimed the husband.

"Father, jewel! have you no prayers that you'd read for her? You wor ordained for these things,
an' comin' from you, they'll have more stringth. Can you do nothin' to save my darlin'?"

"My prayers will not be wanting," said the priest: "but I am watching for an interval of sufficient
calmness to hear her confession; and I very much fear that she will pass in darkness. At all
events, I will anoint her by and by. In the meantime, we must persevere a little longer; she
may become easier, for it often happens that reason gets clear immediately before death."

Peter sobbed aloud, and wiped away the tears that streamed from his cheeks. At this moment
her daughter and son-in-law stole in, to ascertain how she was, and whether the rites of the
church had in any degree soothed or composed her.

"Come in, Denis," said the priest to his nephew, "you may both come in. Mrs. Mulcahy, speak
to your mother: let us try every remedy that might possibly bring her to a sense of her awful
state."

"Is she raving still?" inquired the daughter, whose eyes were red with weeping.

The priest shook his head; "Ah, she is--she is! and I fear she will scarcely recover her reason
before the judgment of heaven opens upon her!"

"Oh thin may the Mother of Glory forbid that!" exclaimed her daughter--"anything at all but
that! Can you do nothin' for her, uncle?"

"I'm doing all I can for her, Mary," replied the priest; "I'm watching a calm moment to get
her confession, if possible."

The sick woman had fallen into a momentary silence, during which, she caught the bed-clothes
like a child, and felt them, and seemed to handle their texture, but with such an air of vacancy
as clearly manifested that no corresponding association existed in her mind.

The action was immediately understood by all present. Her daughter again burst into tears;
and Peter, now almost choked with grief, pressing the sick woman to his heart, kissed her burning
lips.

"Father, jewel," said the daughter, "there it is, and I feard it--the sign, uncle--the sign!--don't
you see her gropin' the clothes? Oh, mother, darlin', darlin'!--are we going to lose you for ever?"

"Oh! Ellish, Ellish--won't you spake one word to me afore you go? Won't you take one farewell
of me--of me, aroon asthore, before you depart from us for ever!" exclaimed her husband.

"Feeling the bed-clothes," said the priest, "is not always a, sign of death; I have known many
to recover after it.

"Husht," said Peter--"husht!--Mary--Mary! Come hear--hould your tongues! Oh, it's past--it's
past!--it's all past, an' gone--all hope's over! Heavenly fither!"

The daughter, after listening for a moment, in a paroxysm of wild grief, clasped her mother's
recumbent body in her arms, and kissed hen lips with a vehemence almost frantic. "You won't
go, my darlin'--is it from your own Mary that you'd go? Mary, that you loved best of all your
childhre!--Mary that you always said, an' every body said, was your own image! Oh, you won't
go without one word, to say you know her!"

"For Heaven's sake," said Father Mulcahy, "what do you mean?--are you mad?"

"Oh! uncle dear! don't you hear?--don't you hear?--listen an' sure you will--all hope's gone
now--gone--gone! The dead rattle!--listen!--the dead rattle's in her throat!"--

The priest bent his ear a moment, and distinctly heard the gurgling noise produced by the phlegm,
which is termed with wild poetical accuracy, by the peasantry--the "dead rattle," or "death
rattle," because it is the immediate and certain forerunner of death.

"True," said the priest--"too true; the last shadow of hope is gone. We must now make as much
of the time as possible. Leave the room for a few minutes till I anoint her, I will then call
you in."

They accordingly withdrew, but in about fifteen or twenty minutes he once more summoned them
to the bed of the dying woman.

"Come in," said he, "I have anointed her--come in, and kneel down till we offer up a Rosary
to the Blessed Virgin, under the hope that she may intercede with God for her, and cause her
to pass out of life happily. She was calling for you, Peter, in your absence; you had better
stay with her."

"I will," said Peter, in a broken voice; "I'll stay nowhere else."

"An'I'll kneel at the bed-side," said the daughter. "She was the kind mother to me, and to
us all; but to me in particular. 'Twas with me she took her choice to live, when they war all
striving for her. Oh," said she, taking her mother's hand between hers, and kneeling-down to
kiss it, "a Vahr dheelish! (* sweet mother) did we ever think to see you departing from us
this way! snapped away without a minute's warning! If it was a long-sickness, that you'd be
calm and sinsible in, but to be hurried away into eternity, and your mind dark! Oh, Vhar dheelish,
my heart is broke to see you this way!"

"Be calm," said the priest; "be quiet till I open the Rosary."

He then offered up the usual prayers which precede its repetition, and after having concluded
them, commenced what is properly called the Rosary itself, which consists of fifteen Decades,
each Decade containing the Hail Mary repeated ten times, and the Lord's Prayer once. In this
manner the Decade goes round from one to another, until, as we have said above, it is repeated
fifteen times; or, in all, the Ave Maria's one hundred and sixty-five times, without variation.
From the indistinct utterance, elevated voice, and rapid manner in which it is pronounced,
it certainly has a wild effect, and is more strongly impressed with the character of a mystic
rite, or incantation, than with any other religious ceremony with which we could compare it.

"When the priest had repeated the first part, he paused for the response: neither the husband
nor daughter, however, could find utterance.

"Denis," said he, to his nephew, "do you take up the next."

His nephew complied; and with much difficulty Peter and his daughter were able to join in it,
repeating here and there a word or two, as well as their grief and sobbings would permit them.

The heart must indeed have been an unfeeling one, to which a scene like this would not have
been deeply touching and impressive. The poor dying woman reclined with her head upon her husband's
bosom; the daughter knelt at the bed-side, with her mother's hand pressed against her lips,
she herself convulsed with sorrow--the priest was in the attitude of earnest supplication,
having the stole about his neck, his face and arms raised towards heaven--the son-in-law was
bent over a chair, with his face buried in his hands. Nothing could exceed the deep, the powerful
expression of entreaty, which marked every tone and motion of the parties, especially those
of the husband and daughter. They poured an energy into the few words which they found voice
to utter, and displayed such a concentration of the faculties of the soul in their wild unregulated
attitudes, and streaming, upturned eyes, as would seem to imply that their own salvation depended
upon that of the beloved object before them. Their words, too, were accompanied by such expressive
tokens of their attachment to her, that the character of prayer was heightened by the force
of the affection which they bore her. When Peter, for instance, could command himself to utter
a word, he pressed his dying wife to his bosom, and raised his eyes to heaven in a manner that
would have melted any human heart; and the daughter, on joining occasionally in the response,
pressed her mother's hand to her heart, and kissed it with her lips, conscious that the awful
state of her parent had rendered more necessary the performance of the two tenderest duties
connected with a child's obedience--prayer and affection.

When the son-in-law had finished his Decade, a pause followed, for there was none now to proceed
but her husband, or her daughter.

"Mary, dear," said the priest, "be a woman; don't let your love for your mother prevent you
from performing a higher duty. Go on with the prayer--you see she is passing fast."

"I'll try, uncle," she replied--"I'll try; but--but--it's hard, hard, upon me."

She commenced, and by an uncommon effort so far subdued her grief, as to render her words intelligible.
Her eyes, streaming with tears, were fixed with a mixture of wildness, sorrow, and devotedness,
upon the countenance of her mother, until she had completed her Decade.

Another pause ensued. It was now necessary, according to the order and form of the Prayer,
that Peter should commence and offer up his supplications for the happy passage from life to
eternity of her who had been his inward idol during a long period. Peter knew nothing about
sentiment, or the philosophy of sorrow; but he loved his wife with the undivided power of a
heart in which nature had implanted her strongest affections. He knew, too, that his wife had
loved him with a strength of heart equal to his own. He loved her, and she deserved his love.

The pause, when the prayer had gone round to him, was long; those who were present at length
turned their eyes towards him, and the priest, now deeply affected, cleared his voice, and
simply said, "Peter," to remind him that it was his duty to proceed with the Rosary.

Peter, however, instead of uttering the prayer, burst out into a tide of irrepressible sorrow.--"Oh!"
said he, enfolding her in his arms, and pressing his lips to hers: "Ellish, ahagur machree!
sure when I think of all the goodness, an' kindness, an' tendherness that you showed me--whin
I think of your smiles upon me, whin you wanted me to do the right, an' the innocent plans
you made out, to benefit me an' mine!--Oh! where was your harsh word, avillish?--where was
your could brow, or your bad tongue? Nothin' but goodness--nothin' but kindness, an' love,
an' wisdom, ever flowed from these lips! An' now, darlin', pulse o' my broken heart! these
same lips can't spake to me--these eyes don't know me--these hands don't feel me--nor your
ears doesn't hear me!"

"Is--is--it you?" replied his wife feebly--"is it--you?--come--come near me--my heart--my heart
says it misses you--come near me!"

Peter again pressed her in an embrace, and, in doing so, unconsciously received the parting
breath of a wife whose prudence and affection had saved him from poverty, and, probably, from
folly or crime.

The priest, on turning round to rebuke Peter for not proceeding with the prayer, was the first
who discovered that she had died; for the grief of her husband was too violent to permit him
to notice anything with much accuracy.

"Peter," said he, "I beg your pardon; let me take the trouble of supporting her for a few minutes,
after which I must talk to you seriously--very seriously."

The firm, authoritative tone in which the priest spoke, together with Peter's consciousness
that he had acted wrongly by neglecting to join in the Rosary, induced him to retire from the
bed with a rebuked air. The priest immediately laid back the head' of Mrs. Connell on the pillow,
and composed the features of her lifeless face with his own hands. Until this moment none of
them, except himself, knew that she was dead.

"Now," continued he, "all her cares, and hopes, and speculations, touching this world, are
over--so is her pain; her blood will soon be cold enough, and her head will ache no more. She
is dead. Grief is therefore natural; but let it be the grief of a man, Peter. Indeed, it is
less painful to look upon her now, than when she suffered such excessive agony. Mrs. Mulcahy,
hear me! Oh, it's in vain! Well, well, it is but natural; for it was an unexpected and a painful
death!"

The cries of her husband and daughter soon gave intimation to her servants that her pangs were
over. From the servants it immediately went to the neighbors, and thus did the circle widen
until it reached the furthest ends of the parish. In a short time, also, the mournful sounds
of the church-bell, in slow and measured strokes, gave additional notice that a Christian soul
had passed into eternity.

It is in such scenes as these that the Roman Catholic clergy knit themselves so strongly into
the affections of the people. All men are naturally disposed to feel the offices of kindness
and friendship more deeply, when tendered at the bed of death or of sickness, than under any
other circumstances. Both the sick-bed and the house of death are necessarily the sphere of
a priest's duty, and to render them that justice which we will ever render, when and wheresoever
it may be due, we freely grant that many shining, nay, noble instances of Christian virtue
are displayed by them on such occasions.

When the violence of grief produced by Ellish's death had subsided, the priest, after giving
them suitable exhortations to bear the affliction which had just befallen them with patience,
told Peter, that as God, through the great industry and persevering exertions of her who had
then departed to another world, had blessed him abundantly with wealth and substance, it was,
considering the little time which had been allowed her to repent in a satisfactory manner for
her transgressions, his bounden and solemn duty to set aside a suitable portion of that wealth
for the delivery of her soul from purgatory, where, he trusted, in the mercy of God, it was
permitted to remain.

"Indeed, your Reverence," replied Peter, "it wasn't necessary to mintion it, considherin' the
way she was cut off from among us, widout even time to confess."

"But blessed be God," said the daughter, "she received the ointment at any rate, and that of
itself would get her to purgatory."

"And I can answer for her," said Peter, "that she intended, as soon as she'd get everything
properly settled for the childhre, to make her sowl."

"Ah! good intentions," said the priest, "won't do. I, however, have forewarned you of your
duty, and must now leave the guilt or the merit of relieving her departed spirit, upon you
and the other members of her family, who are all bound to leave nothing undone that may bring
her from pain and fire, to peace and happiness."

"Och! och! asthore, asthore! you're lyin' there--an', oh, Ellish, avourneen, could you think
that I--I--would spare money--trash--to bring you to glory wid the angels o' heaven! No, no,
Father dear. It's good, an' kind, an' thoughtful of you to put it into my head; but I didn't
intind to neglect or forget it. Oh, how will I live wantin' her, Father? 

Already played with Saudi, when a robber stole my very name, called Arboga, the qual I sold
to some merchants that they brought me to this palace, where he lives, Mr. Ogul, which I bought
without knowing who I was. This is a glutton, who thinks only of binge well, and believes that
God has put the world to enjoy a bueu table. He is so excessively fat, which every moment seems
he is going to burst. Your doctor is with him little influx Quando makes good digestion, but when
they have high-handedly sends ahitera and now has made believe that he had to heal with a basilisk
boiled in rose water. Has promised to give hand to the slave that traxere a basilisk, and
you see me I leave they deserve the very high honors, having never been less willing to bump
the basilisk that since they have heaven wanted to come back to see you.

Astarte and Zadig Dixéronse quanto then the most generous and passionate breasts could countered
inspire affection so long and so much love and so much misery, and geniuses that love led
preside reasons of both in the sphere of Venus.

He turned about a fifth of the women Ogul without having found anything. Zadig was introduced to
him, and said to him: the sky Descend the immortal Hygia to dilate your years. I am a doctor;
I've been having heard of your illness, and I am bringing a basilisk in boiling water Rose, not
because I aspire to marry you, I ask only the freedom of a young slave Babylon, which I sold
a few days ago, and I acquiesced to remain a slave in his place,
if I have the joy of healing the magnificent Mr. Ogul.

The proposal was accepted, and went to Babylon, Astarte in the company of Zadig's servant, promising
that he would ship out immediately a messenger to inform had quanto happened. No less than his
recognition were loving their vouchers, because, as written in the great book of Zenda, the two
most solemn times of life is the moment we meet again, and that we
parted.

Zadig to the Queen wanted as much as he swore, and Zadig loved the queen more than what he
said.

Zadig spoke in this way to Ogul, Lord, my basilisk not eat, that all virtue is you must enter
through the pores, I've put in a good swollen wineskin wind and covered with a fine leather,
it is necessary that such wineskin empujeis towards me in the air with all your strength, and
that I will throw it often, and with a few days and this Diet Exercicio will see the effectiveness
of my art. The first day it was to drown Ogul, and believed that was about to breathe the
soul, the latter is less tired and slept most good: at last the eight days regained all the strength,
health, lightness, and good humor of his most florid years. Zadig said to him: Have you played at
the ball, and you have not had enough: know that there is no basilisk
in the world, that a sober man and always makes Exercicio healthy
lives, and how imagined amalgamation is the art of gluttony with health
as the Sorcerer's Stone, judicial astrology, and theology of the Magi.

Knowing the quan Ogul first doctor of medicine was dangerous for such a man, collide with the
apothecary to send for guild basilisks to the other world: so that having been punished for
their good deeds always, was to die for having given health to a man gluttonous. Convidáronle
to a feast, where he ought to poison the second service, but still in the first, received
a part of the beautiful queen, and rose from the table, splitting
without delay.

He who is loved by a beautiful, says the great Zoroaster, everything
goes well in this world.

CHAPTER XIX.

The fair.

Received the Queen was in Babylon with that joy with which we always welcome a princess beautiful
and unhappy. Babylon then still seemed something more: the prince had Hircania killed in battle,
and the Babylonians declared winners would marry Astarte with which he was elected by the sovereign.
But they did not want first place in the world, was the husband of Astarte and King of Babylon,
hanging in tangles and parties, and swore King recognized by the bravest and discreet. They raised
a few miles from the city a vast palisade fencing arenas beautifully decorated, the maintainers
will have to submit armed to the nines, and he drew each a separate room where no I could not
see or speak to anyone. It had to run four spears, and those who had the said Beating four horsemen,
had then to fight each other: so that the rearward by those who stay the camp was declared the winner
of the tournament. Four days later he back with the same weapons, and hit the riddles proposed
the magicians, and if not the successful, there was to be king, but they were to return to running
spears until they give a man to come out with victory in both tests, because they were determined
not to recognize king to whom it was not the bravest and most discreet.

In all this time were allowed to the Queen communicate with anyone, only gave him license to attend
games to cover a veil, but was not consented to talk with any of the suitors, because there were no injustice
or valimiento.

This notice was her lover Astarte, waiting for her proven more valuable and discretion anyone.
Zadig departed, praying to Venus to strengthen his spirit and enlighten his understanding,
and reached the banks of the Euphrates on the eve of the solemn day. He then lay his nickname
among those of the other combatants, concealing his name and face, as the law required, and came
to rest in the room which he had fitted eu luck.

His friend was back Cador in Babylon, having searched in Egypt, he sent his quarto take full
plate sent to him by the Queen, and also with her more lush horse of Persia. Well Zadig saw
These gifts are hand of Astarte, and acquired new vigor, new hopes and her love and his boldness.

The
next day the Queen sat Baxo a canopy adorned with precious stones, and full and auditoriums
of all women and people of all states of Babylon, see dexáron maintainers in the circus. Set
each his nickname at the feet of the high magician sorteáronse, and Zadig was the last. The first
a man presented himself very wealthy, called Itobad so full of vanity as lacking in courage, skill,
and understanding. Persuaded Habíanle his servants to a man as he was to be king, and he had answered
them: A man as I should reign. Habíanle as armed from head to foot, wearing a gold nail guns green,
a green plume, and the spear hung with green ribbons. On the way to govern Itobad his horse,
threw himself upon seeing that he had not intended the scepter of Babylon to a man like he the
sky. The first knight that ran throws made him lose his temper, and the second pulled him
by the legs of the horse to the ground, legs up, and open arms. Again Itobad to ride, but
doing so sad figure, the whole amphitheater burst out laughing. No deigned to touch the third
with Lance; but he passed to him grabbed his right leg, and they should give him half-back, threw
him down on the sand, the squires of Games went to lift laughing: the quarto fighter takes him
by the left leg and throws the other side. Conduxéronle a thousand insults to his apartment,
where according to law had to spend that night and he said, scarcely
able to wiggle: What an adventure for a man like me!

Best discharging their obligation to the other champions, there were some who beat two fighters,
and a few up to three. Only four vanquished Otama prince. The little gray rearward Zadig, and
far removed from the stirrups Donayre to four riders one after another, with this started the
fight between Zadig and Otama. This was bringing arms in blue and gold with a tuft of the same;
Zadig those were white.

The mood of the attendees were divided between the knight blue and white: the queen to her heart
pounding, making passionate pleas to the ring by white.

Champions gave both repeated twists and turns so lightly, and dodged asentáronse such boats with
spears, and remained so strong in his stirrups, that all but the Queen, wished to have two
kings in Babylon. Tired and horses, and broken spears, Zadig used this trick: passes behind
the prince, rushes to the rump of his horse, it takes for half of the body, it breaks down on
the ground, mounted on the empty chair, and begins to spinning around Otama lying on the ground.
Crying all the amphitheater: Victory the white knight. Upgrades Otama enraged, drew his sword, gives
a jump horse Zadig the naked cutlass. Both begin in the new arena and more dangerous battle triumphs
now agility, strength now. Flying in the wind wounded often hit the plumage of their helmets, the
nails of their bracelets, the mesh of their weapons. Sharp edge and are wound to left, right
to the head, chest, retiranse, acométense, move away, they hold back; dóblanse like snakes, lions
embísterise as: every moment Salfa sparks of blows stick. Zadig finally takes a breath, stopped, Otama
dodges a blow, not given to roam, it breaks down, disarm him, and exclaims Otama: White Knight,
to you is because the throne of Babylon. Was beside herself the queen of joy. Knight led the
blue and white knight, to every one to his room, as they had done with everyone else, provided
that commanded the law. Silent about the came to serve, and they brought them food. Well if
it would be presumed the mute queen who served to Zadig. Dexáronlos sleep alone until the next
day by morning, Quando was the winner had to take his nickname to
the supreme magician, to be collated and to know.

Zadig was so tired he slept deeply, because love, but not sleep Itobad I was lying in the quarto
immediately: getting up at night and entered the Zadig, picked up his weapons and his nickname, and
set their own green in place of them. Hardly scratched dawn, when presented to the supreme magician
proud, declaring that a man as he was the winner. Nobody expected it, but was proclaimed while
Zadig was still sleeping. He turned Astarte stunned and desperate to Babylon. Almost everything
was empty amphitheater Zadig awoke Quando, and searching for weapons was found with the green
instead. Saw himself compelled to put on them, having nothing else to fall back on. Weapons stunned,
shocked and enraged, and out with this tack. All quanta people still had in the amphitheater
and the circus received him with a thousand insults; all had been placed so, and gave him go
to his face, man never suffered such shameful desayre. Faltóle patience, and turned to saber
the mob, who dared to insult, but not wise to be, unable to even see the Queen, nor the weapons claim
that he had sent, not to hazard their reputation, and while it was submerged in a sea Astarte pain,
he wavered between rage and anxieties. We walked along the banks of the Euphrates, persuaded to
which he had for his star to irremediable wretchedness, and recapitulated in his mind all their
misfortunes, from the woman who could not see the wrongs, until their armor. That I grange,
he said, to be awakened later, he had not slept well, was King of Babylon, and possessor of
Astarte. Thus knowledge, morality, the effort never to more that I have earned my misfortunes. After
Exhalóse in murmuring against Providence, and it came the temptation to believe that everything
regia a cruel fate than to the good oppressed, and to knights thriving green, that one of his
greatest feelings was seen green with those weapons had brought him much ridicule. He spent
a merchant, to whom the - sold very cheap, and bought a long coat and a hat. This costume was
following the flow of the Euphrates, desperate, and accusing in his heart to Providence not
Tired of chasing.

CHAPTER XX.

The hermit.

Walking, as we said, he met a hermit beard which descended to the stomach. He wore this a book that
I read very carefully. He stopped and made Zadig a deep bow, to which corresponded the hermit
so gentle and so noble that Zadig to the curiosity it came to reason with him. Was asked what
book he read. The book destination, he said the hermit: you want to read any piece? He placed
in his hands, but even Zadig was Vorse in many languages, could not find a single letter, so qual
is increased their curiosity. You seem very sad, the good father said to him. I have much reason
to be! said Zadig. If you give me leave to accompany you, "replied the old man, perhaps I can
serve you something, that sometimes I have baxar comfort the souls of the unfortunate. The trace,
beard and the book of the hermit command respect in Zadig, and their conversation found top lights.
The hermit talked of fate, justice, morality, the highest good, of human weakness, of the
virtues and vices so lively and penetrating eloquence, which Zadig by an irresistible delight
was attracted to him and he prayed earnestly that no dexara him until they were back in Babylon.
That same please I beg you, swear to me by Orosmades, whatever it
what do you see me, do not you have to separate from me few days.

Jurólo Zadig, and together they followed their path.

That same afternoon they arrived at a magnificent villa, and asked the hermit hosting plans
for themselves and the boy who accompanied him. Introdúxolos at home, with an air of contemptuous
generosity a janitor who seemed like a great lord, and presented a servant principal, who taught
the chambers of his master. Him down at the end of the table, without condescending to the owner
of that Palace of honor at a glance, but the serve, as to all others, with opulence and sensitivity.
Then they gave water to hand in a basin of gold, studded with emeralds
and rubies, brought him to lie down to a sumptuous room, and the next
morning he brought the servant to every one a gold coin, and then
sent them off.

The master of this house, 'said Zadig on the way, I think it is generous, although somewhat arrogant,
and exercising himself with nobility hospitality. With these words, said that it seemed stiff
and swollen with a kind of very long costal brought the hermit, and
saw within the basin gold studded with precious stones, that he had
stolen.

Dared not say anything, but I was confused and perplexed.

When noon came the hermit at the door of a very miserable hut where lived an old miser, and asked where
it was produced by a few crying. Received him with harsh face a shabby old servant, and took
them to the hermit Zadig to the stable, where they served Aceytuno some bad, some brown bread,
and wine vinegar. The hermit ate and drank with such a good mood as the day before, and then
addressing the old servant who did not remove the view of each other because they stole nothing,
and gave them haste to go, and they gave him the two gold coins he had received that morning, and
thanking him for his courtesy, said: I beg to allow me to talk to your master. Stunned the
servant introduced the two travelers. Superb sir, 'said the hermit, I can not but give the
most surrendered by the noble entertainment with us you welcomed deign to admit that gold basin
short pay my gratitude. Very nearly fainted with joy the miser, and the hermit without giving
him time to return to his astonishment, he broke all haste to his young companion. Father, Zadig
said to him, what do you say what I'm seeing? seems to me that you do not semejais in all others:
have robbed a gold basin adorned with precious stones to a man that you stay with magnificence,
and the dais to a miser who indignantly you about! Son replied the old man, the great man only out
of vanity, and flaunt their wealth, host to the foreigners, will become more sane, and exercising himself
to learn the miserly hospitality. Do not give anything amazement, and follow me. Zadig still
could not manage if he went to the craziest or the most Men's sane, but such was the domain that
Granger had his mind the hermit which also required by his oath he
could not but follow.

That evening they came to a house neat, but simple, and where nothing breathed prodigality or parsimony.
He was a philosopher, retired owner of drudgery in the world, cultivated in peace wisdom and
virtue, and never bored. Had particularly liked this building remote lodge, where he received
the strangers with a dignity that resembled nothing ostentation. The same went out to meet
the two walkers, rested on a very comfortable room, and shortly after he came in person to invite
them to a banquet neat and well served during the qual spoke very good sense to the latest
revolutions in Babylon. Heart seemed addicted to the Queen, and wished that Zadig had been
found among competitors to the crown, but men do not deserve, he added, have a king as Zadig. I
felt embarrassed that grow your pain. In the conversation was all that consistent in that were
not always the things of this world to like the wise, but living the hermit we did not know the
ways of Providence, and that it was mistake in men fail on of a whole,
when Vian no more than a tiny part.

Tratóse passions. Quan is deadly! 'said Zadig. Son, "replied the hermit, winds to swell the sails
of the ship, sometimes you are immersed, but without them you can
not navigate.

The bile makes angry, and causes disease, but no one could not live bile. On earth everything
is dangerous, and all necessary.

Tratóse of Deleyte, and tested the hermit that was a gift of divinity, because man, he said,
for himself can not have feelings or ideas: everything in it is borrowed, and the penalty and the
delight will come from another, as their very being.

Zadig Pasmábase that a man who had committed so many blunders, runs with both success. Finally
after a conversation no less pleasant than instructive, led his guest to the two walking into
a room, giving thanks to heaven that he had sent two men so wise
and virtuous.

Brindóles with money from a naive and noble so that he could not upset: rehusóle The hermit,
and told him that he said goodbye to him, because to be assumed for profit Babylon before dawn.
Their separation was affectionate, and specialty Zadig remained esteem and affection penetrated
so kind to host.

Quando was with the hermit in his place, did both a pompous eulogy of his guest. At daybreak,
awakened his old comrade. Come on, told him, I however, whilst sleeping around the world, to this
good man dexar proof of my esteem and my affection. Saying this, he took a torch and set fire
to the house. Zadig got frightened cries, and she wanted clogging who commits such a horrendous,
but was carried along with it with superior strength the hermit. Ardia the house, and the hermit
who with her partner and was diverted, the burn looked very quietly.

Thank God, he said, is already home to my good host burnt to the ground, do man so happy!
At these words he came to temptations Zadig releasing laughter, say a thousand pranks Reverend
Father, to give clubs, and escape, but the repressed all, always dominated by the superiority of
the hermit, and he continued until the last day.

Alojáronse the house of a charitable and virtuous widow, had a nephew qual fourteen year-old
boy hilarious, and that was their only hope. Agasajólos as best he could in home, and the next
day ordered his nephew who was accompanying the two walkers to a bridge that had recently broken
into, and it was a dangerous step. Solicitous Precedíalos the boy, and when they had arrived
on the bridge, the hermit told him, 'Come, my son I want to express my thanks to your aunt, and
grabbing the hair you pull the river. Boy falls, nothing for a moment above the water, and power
leads. O monster or the most evil man of men! said Zadig. Have you had given me more patience
word, "interrupted the hermit know that vnder the rubble of the house to which Providence on
fire, its owner has found a huge treasure, know that this young man
Providence had drowned by murdering his aunt in about a year and within
two to you same.

Who told you, inhuman? cried Zadig, "and even Quando'd read that event in your book of destinies,
what right have you to drown a boy who made you no harm?

He was still talking about the Babylonian, when warned that he had no beard and the elderly,
and his face is rejuvenated. Then he disappeared his hermit's garb, and four beautiful wings
covered majestic and radiant body. O auditorium of heaven or heavenly angel cried prostrate Zadig
with you baxado of Empyrean to teach a weak mortal to which is subject to their eternal decrees!
Humans, he said the angel Jesrad, unaware of anything failing of all: between all mortals that
you were the more you deserve to be illustrated. Zadig entreated her permission to speak,
and said: I do not trust my understanding, but if I must be bold to beg you to dispel a question
of mine, tell me if it was better to have amended this boy, and made him virtuous, that drown?
Had he been virtuous and lived Jesrad said, was his fate to be killed
with the woman with whom he had married, and the son of this marriage
was to be born. How it is essential, he said Zadig, who has atrocities
and misfortunes, and that these recaygan in the virtuous? Consider that you are disgracing yourself
and your children by drinking so excessively from day to day--indeed, I am told, almost from
hour to hour."

"Augh! don't believe the half o' what you hear, sir. Faith, somebody has been dhraw-in' your
honor out! Why I'm never dhrunk, sir; faith, I'm not."

"You will destroy your health, Connell, as well as your character; besides, you are not to
be told that it is a sin, a crime against. God, and an evil example to society."

"Show me the man, plase your honor, that ever seen me incapable. That's the proof o' the thing."

"But why do you drink at all? It is not-necessary."

"An' do you never taste a dhrop yourself, sir, plase your honor? I'll be bound you do, sir,
raise your little finger of an odd time, as well as another. Eh, Ma'am? That's comin' close
to his honor! An' faix, small blame to him, an' a weeshy sup o' the wine to the misthress herself,
to correct the tindherness of her dilicate appetite."

"Peter, this bantering must not pass: I think I have a claim upon your respect and deference.
I have uniformly been your friend and the friend of your children and family, but more especially
of your late excellent and exemplary wife."

"Before God an' man I acknowledge that, sir--I do--I do. But, sir; to spake sarious--it's thruth,
Ma'am, downright--to spake sarious, my heart's broke, an' every day it's brakin' more an' more.
She's gone, sir, that used to manage me; an' now I can't turn myself to anything, barrin' the
dhrink--God help me!"

"I honor you, Connell, for the attachment which you bear towards the memory of your wife, but
I utterly condemn the manner in which you display it. To become a drunkard is to disgrace her
memory. You know it was a character she detested."

"I know it all, sir, an' that you have thruth an rason on your side; but, sir, you never lost
a wife that you loved; an' long may you be so, I pray the heavenly Father this day! Maybe if
you did, sir, plase your honor, that, wid your heart sinkin' like a stone widin you, you'd
thry whether or not something couldn't rise it. Sir, only for the dhrink I'd be dead."

"There I totally differ from you, Connell. The drink only prolongs your grief, by adding to
it the depression of spirits which it always produces. Had you not become a drinker, you would
long before this have been once more a cheerful, active, and industrious man. Your sorrow would
have worn away gradually, and nothing but an agreeable melancholy--an affectionate remembrance
of your excellent wife--would have remained. Look at other men."

"But where's the man, sir, had sich a wife to grieve for as she was? Don't be hard on me, sir.
I'm not a dhrunkard. It's thrue I dhrink a great dale; but thin I can bear a great dale, so
that I'm never incapable."

"Connell," said the lady, "you will break down your constitution, and bring yourself to an
earlier death than you would otherwise meet."

"I care very little, indeed, how soon I was dead, not makin' you, Ma'am, an ill answer."

"Oh fie, Connell, for you, a sensible man and a Christian, to talk in such a manner!"

"Throth, thin, I don't, Ma'am. She's gone, an' I'd be glad to folly her as soon as I could.
Yes, asthore, you're departed from me! an' now I'm gone asthray--out o' the right an' out o'
the good! Oh, Ma'am," he proceeded, whilst the tears rolled fast down his cheeks, "if you knew
her--her last words, too--Oh, she was--she was--but where's the use o' sayin' what she was?--I
beg your pardon, Ma'am,--your honor, sir, 'ill forgive my want o' manners, sure I know it's
bad breedin', but I can't help it."

"Well, promise," said his landlord, "to give up drink. Indeed, I wish you would take an oath
against it: you are a conscientious man, and I know would keep it, otherwise I should not propose
it, for I discountenance such oaths generally. Will you promise me this, Connell?"

"I'll promise to think of it, your honor,--aginst takin' a sartin quantity, at any rate."

"If you refuse it, I'll think you are unmindful of the good feeling which we have ever shown
your family."

"What?--do you think, sir, I'm ungrateful to you? That's a sore cut, sir, to make a villain
o' me. Where's the book?--I'll swear this minute. Have you a Bible, Ma'am?--I'll show you that
I'm not mane, any way."

"No, Connell, you shall not do it rashly; you must be cool and composed: but go home, and turn
it in your mind," she replied; "and remember, that it is the request of me and my husband,
for your own good."

"Neither must you swear before me," said his landlord, "but before Mr. Mulcahy, who, as it
is an oath connected with your moral conduct, is the best person to be present. It must be
voluntary, however. Now, good-bye, Connell, and think of what we said; but take care never
to carry home any of my servants in the same plight in which you put John Smith to-day."

"Faix thin, sir, he had no business, wid your honor's livery upon his back, to begin lecthurin'
me again dhrinkin', as he did. We may all do very well, sir, till the timptation crasses us--but
that's what thries us. It thried him, but he didn't stand it--faix he didn't!--ha, ha, ha!
Good-mornin', sir--God bless you, Ma'am! Divil resave the family in all Europe"--

"Good-morning, Connell--good-morning! --Pray remember what we said."

Peter, however, could not relinquish the whiskey. His sons, daughters, friends, and neighbors,
all assailed him, but with no success. He either bantered them in his usual way, or reverted
to his loss, and sank into sorrow. This last was the condition in which they found him most
intractable; for a man is never considered to be in a state that admits of reasoning or argument,
when he is known to be pressed by strong gushes of personal feeling. A plan at length struck
Father Mulcahy, which lie resolved to put into immediate execution.

"Peter," said he, "if you don't abandon drink, I shall stop the masses which I'm offering up
for the repose of your wife's soul, and I will also return you the money I received for saying
them."

This was, perhaps, the only point on which Peter was accessible. He felt staggered at such
an unexpected intimation, and was for some time silent.

"You will then feel," added the priest, "that your drunkenness is prolonging the sufferings
of your wife, and that she is as much concerned in your being sober as you are yourself."

"I will give in," replied Peter; "I didn't see the thing in that light. No--I will give it
up; but if I swear against it, you must allow me a rasonable share every day, an' I'll not
go beyant it, of coorse. The truth is, I'd die soon if I gev it up altogether."

"We have certainly no objection against that," said the priest, "provided you keep within what
would injure your health, or make you tipsy. Your drunkenness is not only sinful but disreputable;
besides, you must not throw a slur upon the character of your children, who hold respectable
and rising situations in the world."

"No," said Peter, in a kind of soliloquy, "I'd lay down my life, avoumeen, sooner nor I'd cause
you a minute's sufferin'. Father Mulcahy, go an wid the masses. I'll get an oath drawn up,
an' whin it's done, I'll swear to it. I know a man that'll do it for me."

The priest then departed, quite satisfied with having accomplished his object; and Peter, in
the course of that evening, directed his steps to the house of the village schoolmaster, for
the purpose of getting him to "draw up" the intended oath.

"Misther O'Flaherty," said he, "I'm comin' to ax a requist of you an' I hope you'll grant it
to me. I brought down a sup in this flask, an' while we're takin' it, we can talk over what
I want."

"If it be anything widin the circumference of my power, set it down, Misther Connell, as already
operated upon. I'd drop a pen to no man at keepin' books by double enthry, which is the Italian
method invinted by Pope Gregory the Great. The Three sets bear a theological ratio to the three
states of a thrue Christian. 'The Waste-book,' says Pope Gregory, 'is this world, the Journal
is purgatory, an' the Ledger is heaven. Or it may be compared,' he says, in the priface of
the work, 'to the three states of the Catholic church--the church Militant, the church Suffering
and the church Triumphant.' The larnin' of that man was beyant the reach of credibility."

"Arra, have you a small glass, Masther? You see, Misther O'Flaherty, it's consarnin' purgatory,
this that I want to talk about."

"Nancy, get us a glass--oh, here it is! Thin if it be, it's a wrong enthry in the Journal."

"Here's your health, Masther!--Not forgetting you, Mrs. O'Flaherty. No, indeed, thin it's not
in the Journal, but an oath I'm goin' to take against liquor."

"Nothin' is asier to post than it is. We must enter it it undher the head of--let me see!--it
must go in the spirit account, undher the head of Profit an' Loss, Your good health, Mr. Connell!--Nancy,
I dhrink ta your improvement in imperturbability! Yes, it must be enthered undher the"----

"Faix, undher the rose, I think," observed Pether; "don't you know the smack, of it? You see
since I took to it, I like the smell o' what I used to squeeze out o' the barley myself, long
ago. Mr. O'Flaherty, I only want you to dhraw up an oath against liquor for me; but it's not
for the books, good or bad. I promised to Father Mulcahy, that I'd do it. It's regardin' my
poor Ellish's sowl in purgatory."

"Nancy, hand me a slate an' cutter. Faith, the same's a provident resolution; but how is it
an' purgatory concatenated?"

"The priest, you see, won't go an wid the masses for her till I take the oath."

"That's but wake logic, if you ped him for thim."

"Faix, an' I did--an' well, too;--but about the oath? Have you the pencil?"

"I have; jist lave the thing to me."

"Asy, Masther--you don't undherstand it yit. Put down two tumblers for me at home."

"How is that, Misther Connell?--It's mysterious, if you're about to swear against liquor!"

"I am. Put down, as I said, two tumblers for me at home--Are they down?"

"They are down--but"--

"Asy!--very good!--Put down two more for me at Dan's. Let me see!--two more; behind the garden.
Well!--put down one at Father Mulcahy's;--two more at, Frank M'Carrol's of Kilclay. How many's
that?"

"Nine!!!"

"Very good. Now put down one wid ould' Bartle Gorman, of Cargah; an' two over wid honest Roger
M'Gaugy, of Nurchasey. How-many have you now?"

"Twelve in all!!!! But, Misther Connelly there's a demonstration badly wanted here. I must
confis I was always bright, but at present I'm as dark as Nox. I'd thank you for a taste of
explanation."

"Asy, man alive! Is there twelve in all?"

"Twelve in all: I've calculated them."

"Well, we'll hould to that. Och, och!--I'm sure, avourneen, afore I'd let you suffer one minute's
pain, I'd not scruple to take an oath against liquor, any way. He may go an wid the masses
now for you, as soon as he likes! Mr. O'Flaherty, will you put that down on paper,--an' I'll
swear to it, wid a blessin', to-morrow."

"But what object do you wish to effectuate by this?"

"You see, Masther, I dhrink one day wid another from a score to two dozen tumblers, an' I want
to swear to no more nor twelve in the twenty-four hours."

"Why, there's intelligibility in that!--Wid great pleasure, Mr. Connell, I'll indite it. Katty,
tare me a lafe out o' Brian Murphy's copy there."

"You see, Masther, it's for Ellish's sake I'm doin' this. State that in the oath."

"I know it; an' well she desarved that specimen of abstinence from you, Misther Connell. Thank
you!--Your health agin! an' God grant you grace an' fortitude to go through wid the same oath!--An'
so he will, or I'm greviously mistaken in you."

     "OATH AGAINST LIQUOR,

     made by me, Cornelius O'Flaherty, Philomath, on behalf
     of Mr. Peter Connell, of the cross-roads, Merchant, on
     one part--and of the soul of Mrs. Ellish Connell, now
     in purgatory, Merchantess, on the other.

     "I solemnly and meritoriously, and soberly swear, that
     a single tumbler of whiskey punch shall not cross my
     lips during the twenty-four hours of the day, barring
     twelve, the locality of which is as followeth:

     "Imprimis--Two tumblers at home, 2
     Secundo--Two more ditto at my son Dan's, 2
     Tertio--Two more ditto behind my own garden, 2
     Quarto--One ditto at the Reverend Father Mulcahy's, 1
     Quinto--Two more ditto at Frank M'Carroll s, of Kilclay, 2
     Sexto--One ditto wid ould Bartle Gorman, of Cargah, 1
     Septimo--Two more ditto wid honest Roger M'Gaugy, of Nurchasey, 2
                                                                    ====
                                                                     12
     N.B.--Except in case any Docthor of Physic might
     think it right and medical to ordher me more for my
     health; or in case I could get Father Mulcahy to take
     the oath off of me for a start, at a wedding, or a
     christening, or at any other meeting of friends where
     there's drink.

     his
     Peter X Connell.
     mark.

     Witness present,
     Cornelius O'Flaherty, Philomath.
     June the 4th, 18--

     I certify that I have made and calculated this oath for
     Misther Pettier Connell, Merchant, and that it is
     strictly and arithmetically proper and correct.

     "Cornelius O'Flaherty, Philomath.
     "Dated this Mh day of June, 18--."

"I think, Misther O'Flaherty, it's a dacent oath as it stands. Plase God, I'll swear to it
some time to-morrow evenin'."

"Dacent! Why I don't wish to become eulogistically addicted; but I'd back tha same oath, for
both grammar and arithmetic, aginst any that ever was drawn up by a lawyer--ay, by the great
Counsellor himself!--but faith, I'd not face him at a Vow, for all that; he's the greatest
man at a Vow in the three kingdoms."

"I'll tell you what I'm thinkin', Masther--as my hand's in, mightn't I as well take another
wid an ould friend of mine, Owen Smith, of Lisbuy? He's a dacent ould residenther, an' likes
it. It'll make the baker's or the long dozen."

"Why, it's not a bad thought; but won't thirteen get into your head?"

"No, nor three more to the back o' that. I only begin to get hearty about seventeen, so that
the long dozen, afther all, is best; for--God he knows, I've a regard for Owen Smith this many
a year, an' I wouldn't wish to lave him out."

"Very well,--I'll add it up to the other part of the oath.

     'Octavo--One ditto out of respect for dacent Owen Smith, of
          Lisbuy, 1

Now I must make the total amount thirteen, an' all will be right."

"Masther, have you a prayer-book widin?--bekase if you have, I may as well swear here, and
you can witness it."

"Katty, hand over the Spiritual Exercises--a book aquil to the Bible itself for piety an' devotion."

"Sure they say, Masther, any book that, the name o' God's in, is good for an oath. Now, wid
the help o' goodness, repate the words afore me, an' I'll sware thim."

O'Flaherty hemmed two or three times, and complied with Peter's wishes, who followed him in
the words until the oath was concluded. He then kissed the book, and expressed himself much
at ease, as well, he said, upon the account of Ellish's soul, as for the sake of his children.

For some time after this, his oath was the standing jest of the neighborhood: even to this
day, Peter Connell's oath against liquor is a proverb in that part of the country. Immediately
after he had sworn, no one could ever perceive that he violated it in the slightest degree;
indeed there could be no doubt as to literally fulfilling it. A day never passed in which he
did not punctually pay a visit to those whose names wore dotted down, with whom he sat, pulled
out his flask, and drank his quantum. In the meantime the poor man was breaking down rapidly;
so much so, that his appearance generally excited pity, if not sorrow, among his neighbors.
His character became simpler every day, and his intellect evidently more exhausted. The inoffensive
humor, for which he had been noted, was also completely on the wane; his eye waxed dim, his
step feeble, but the benevolence of his heart never failed him. Many acts of his private generosity
are well known, and still remembered with gratitude.

In proportion as the strength of his mind and constitution diminished, so did his capacity
for bearing liquor. When he first bound himself by the oath not to exceed the long dozen, such
was his vigor, that the effects of thirteen tumblers could scarcely be perceived on him. This
state of health, however, did not last. As he wore away, the influence of so much liquor was
becoming stronger, until at length he found that it was more than he could bear, that he frequently
confounded the names of the men, and the number of tumblers mentioned in the oath, and sometimes
took in, in his route, persons and places not to be found in it at all. This grieved him, and
he resolved to wait upon O'Flaherty for the purpose of having some means devised of guiding
him during his potations.

"Masther," said he, "we must thry an' make this oath somethin' plainer. You see when I get
confused, I'm not able to remimber things as I ought. Sometimes, instid o' one tumbler, I take
two at the wrong place; an' sarra bit o' me but called in an' had three wid ould Jack Rogers,
that isn't in it at all. On another day I had a couple wid honest Barney Casey, an my way acrass
to Bartle Gorman's. I'm not what I was, Masther, ahagm; so I'd thank you to dhraw it out more
clearer, if you can, nor it was."

"I see, Mr. Connell; I comprehend wid the greatest ase in life, the very plan for it. We must
reduce the oath to Geography, for I'm at home there, bein' a Surveyor myself. I'll lay down
a map o' the parish, an' draw the houses of your friends at their proper places, so that you'll
never be out o' your latitude at all."

"Faix, I doubt that, Masther--ha, ha, ha!" replied Peter; "I'm afeard I will, of an odd time,
for I'm not able to carry what I used to do; but no matther: thry what you can do for me this
time, any how. I think I could bear the long dozen still if I didn't make mistakes."

O'Flaherty accordingly set himself to work; and as his knowledge, not only of the parish, but
of every person and house in it, was accurate, he soon had a tolerably correct skeleton map
of it drawn for Peter's use.

"Now," said he, "lend me your ears."

"Faix, I'll do no sich thing," replied Peter--"I know a thrick worth two of it. Lend you my
ears, inagh!--catch me at it! You have a bigger pair of your own nor I have--ha, ha, ha!"

"Well, in other words, pay attintion. Now, see this dot--that's your own house."

"Put a crass there," said Peter, "an' thin I'll know it's the Crass-roads."

"Upon my reputation, you're right; an' that's what I call a good specimen of ingenuity. I'll
take the hint from that, an' we'll make it a Hieroglyphical as well as a Geographical oath.
Well, there's a crass, wid two tumblers. Is that clear?"

"It is, it is! faix"

"Now here we draw a line to your son Dan's. Let me see; he keeps a mill, an' sells cloth. Very
good. I'll dhraw a mill-wheel an' a yard-wand. There's two tumblers. Will you know that?"

"I see it: go an, nothin' can be clearer. So far, I can't go asthray."

"Well, what next? Two behind your own garden. What metaphor for the garden? Let me see!--let
me cogitate! A dragon--the Hesperides! That's beyant you. A bit of a hedge will do, an' a gate."

"Don't put a gate in, it's not lucky. You know, when a man takes to dhrink, they say he's goin'
a gray gate, or a black gate, or a bad gate. Put that out, an' make the hedge longer, an' it'll
do--wid the two tumblers, though."

"They're down. One at the Reverend Father Mulcahy's. How will we thranslate the priest?"

"Faix, I doubt that will be a difficquilt business."

"Upon my reputation, I agree wid you in that, especially whin he repates Latin. However, we'll
see. He writes P.P. afther his name;--pee-pee is what we call the turkeys wid. What 'ud you
think o' two turkeys?"

"The priest would like them roasted, but I couldn't undherstand that. No; put down the sign
o' the horsewhip, or the cudgel; for he's handy, an' argues well wid both?"

"Good! I'll put down the horsewhip first, an' the cudgel alongside of it; then the tumbler,
an' there'll be the sign o' the priest."

"Ay, do, Masther, an' faix the priest 'll be complate--there can be no mistakin' him thin.
Divil a one but that's a good thought!"

"There it is in black an' white. Who comes next? Frank M'Carroll. He's a farmer. I'll put down
a spade an' a harrow. Well, that's done--two tumblers."

"I won't mistake that, aither. It's clear enough."

"Bartle Gorman's of Cargah. Bartle's a little lame, an' uses a staff wid a cross on the end
that he houlds in his hand. I'll put down a staff wid a cross on it."

"Would there be no danger of me mistakin' that for the priest's cudgel?"

"Divil the slightest. I'll pledge my knowledge of geography, they're two very different weapons."

"Well, put it down--I'll know it."

"Roger M'Gaugy of Nurchasy. What for him? Roger's a pig-driver. I'll put down pig. You'll comprehend
that?"

"I ought; for many a pig I sould in my day. Put down the pig; an' if you could put two black
spots upon his back, I'd know it to be one I sould him about four years agone--the fattest
ever was in the country--it had to be brought home on a car, for it wasn't able to walk wid fat."

"Very good; the spots are on it. The last is Owen Smith of Lisbuy. Now, do you see that I've
drawn a line from place to place, so that you have nothing to do only to keep to it as you
go. What for Owen?"

"Owen! Let me see--Owen! Pooh! What's come over me, that I've nothin' for Owen? Ah! I have
it. He's a horse-jockey: put down a gray mare I sould him about five years agone."

"I'll put down a horse; but I can't make a gray mare wid black ink."

"Well, make a mare of her, any way."

"Faith, an' that same puzzles me. Stop, I have it; I'll put a foal along wid her."

"As good as the bank. God bless you, Misther O'Flaherty. I think this 'll keep me from mistakes.
An' now, if you'll slip up to me afther dusk, I'll send you down a couple o' bottles and a
flitch. Sure you desarve more for the throuble you tuck."

Many of our readers, particularly of our English readers, will be somewhat startled to hear
that, except the change of names and places, there is actually little exaggeration in the form
of this oath; so just is the observation, that the romance of truth frequently exceeds that
of fiction.

Peter had, however, over-rated his own strength in supposing that he could bear the long dozen
in future; ere many months passed he was scarcely able to reach the half of that number without
sinking into intoxication. Whilst in this state, he was in the habit of going to the graveyard
in which his wife lay buried, where he sat, and wept like a child, sang her favorite songs,
or knelt and offered up his prayers for the repose of her soul. None ever mocked him for this;
on the contrary, there was always some kind person to assist him home. And as he staggered
on, instead of sneers and ridicule, one might hear such expressions as these:--

"Poor Pether! he's nearly off; an' a dacent, kind neighbor he ever was. The death of the wife
broke his heart--he never ris his head since."

"Ay, poor man! God pity him! Hell soon be sleepin' beside her, beyant there, where she's lyin'.
It was never known of Peter Connell that he offinded man, woman, or child since he was born,
barrin' the gaugers, bad luck to thim, afore he was marrid--but that was no offince. Sowl,
he was their match, any how. When he an' the wife's gone, they won't lave their likes behind
them. The sons are bodaghs--gintlemen, now; an' it's nothin' but dinners an' company. Ahagur,
that wasn't the way their hardworkin' father an' mother made the money that they're houldin'
their heads up wid such consequence upon."

The children, however, did not give Peter up as hopeless. Father Mulcahy, too, once-more assailed
him on his weak side. One morning, when he was sober, nervous, and depressed, the priest arrived,
and finding him at home, addressed him as follows:--

"Peter, I'm sorry, and vexed, and angry this morning; and you are the cause of it"

"How is that, your Reverence?" said Peter. "God help me," he added, "don't be hard an me, sir,
for I'm to be pitied. Don't be hard on me, for the short time I'll be here. I know it won't
be long--I'll be wid her soon. Asthore machree, we'll' be together, I hope, afore long--an',
oh! if it was the will o' God, I would be glad if it was afore night!"

The poor, shattered, heart-broken creature wept bitterly, for he felt somewhat sensible of
the justice of the reproof which he expected from the priest, as well as undiminished sorrow
for his wife.

"I'm not going to be hard on you," said the good-natured priest; "I only called to tell you
a dream that your son Dan had last night about you and his mother."

"About Ellish! Oh, for heaven's sake what about her, Father, avourneen?"

"She appeared to him, last night," replied Father Mulcahy, "and told him that your drinking
kept her out of happiness."

"Queen of heaven!" exclaimed Peter, deeply affected, "is that true? Oh," said he, dropping
on his knees, "Father, ahagur machree, pardon me--oh, forgive me! I now promise, solemnly and
seriously, to drink neither in the house nor out of it, for the time to come, not one drop
at all, good, bad, or indifferent, of either whiskey, wine, or punch--barrin' one glass. Are
you now satisfied? an' do you think she'll get to happiness?"

"All will be well, I trust," said the priest. "I shall mention this to Dan and the rest, and
depend upon it, they, too, will be happy to hear it."

"Here's what Mr. O'Flaherty an' myself made up," said Peter: "burn it, Father; take it out
of my sight, for it's now no use to me."

"What is this at all?" said Mr. Mulcahy, looking into it. "Is it an oath?"

"It's the Joggraphy of one I swore some time ago; but it's now out of date--I'm done wid it."

The priest could not avoid smiling when he perused it, and on getting from Peter's lips an
explanation of the hieroglyphics, he laughed heartily at the ingenious shifts they had made
to guide his memory.

Peter, for some time after this, confined himself to one glass, as he had promised; but he
felt such depression and feebleness, that he ventured slowly, and by degrees, to enlarge the
"glass" from which he drank. His impression touching the happiness of his wife was, that as
he had for several months strictly observed his promise, she had probably during that period
gone to heaven. He then began to exercise his ingenuity gradually, as we have said, by using,
from time to time, a glass larger than the preceding one; thus receding from the spirit of
his vow to the letter, and increasing the quantity of his drink from a small glass to the most
capacious tumbler he could find. The manner in which he drank this was highly illustrative
of the customs which prevail on this subject in Ireland. He remembered, that in making the
vow, he used the words, "neither in the house nor out of it;" but in order to get over this
dilemma, he usually stood with one foot outside the threshold, and the other in the house,
keeping himself in that position which would render it difficult to determine whether he was
either out or in. At other times, when he happened to be upstairs, he usually thrust one-half
of his person out of the window, with the same ludicrous intention of keeping the letter of
his vow.

Many a smile this adroitness of his occasioned to the lookers-on: but further ridicule was
checked by his wobegone and afflicted look. He was now a mere skeleton, feeble and tottering.

One night, in the depth of winter, he went into the town where his two sons resided; he had
been ill in mind and body during the day, and he fancied that change of scene and society might
benefit him. His daughter and son-in-law, in consequence of his illness, watched him so closely,
that he could not succeed in getting his usual "glass." This offended him, and he escaped without
their knowledge to the son who kept the inn. On arriving there, he went upstairs, and by a
douceur to the waiter, got a large tumbler filled with spirits. The lingering influences of
a conscience that generally felt strongly on the side of a moral duty, though poorly instructed,
prompted him to drink it in the usual manner, by keeping one-half of his body, as, nearly as
he could guess, out of the window, that it might be said he drank it neither in nor out of
the house. He had scarcely finished his draught, however, when he lost his balance, and was
precipitated upon the pavement. The crash of his fall was heard in the bar, and his son, who
had just come in, ran, along with several others, to ascertain what had happened. They found
him, however, only severely stunned. He was immediately brought in, and medical aid sent for;
but, though he recovered from the immediate effects of the fall, the shock it gave to his broken
constitution, and his excessive grief, carried him off in a few months afterwards. He expired
in the arms of his son and daughter, and amidst the tears of those who knew his simplicity
of character, his goodness of heart, and his attachment to the wife by whose death that heart
had been broken.

Such was the melancholy end of the honest and warm-hearted Peter Connell, who, unhappily, was
not a solitary instance of a man driven to habits of intoxication and neglect of business by
the force of sorrow, which time and a well-regulated mind might otherwise have overcome. We
have held him up, on the one hand, as an example worthy of imitation in that industry and steadiness
which, under the direction of his wife, raised him from poverty to independence and wealth;
and, on the other, as a man resorting to the use of spirituous liquors that he might be enabled
to support affliction--a course which, so far from having sustained him under it, shattered
his constitution, shortened his life, and destroyed his happiness. In conclusion, we wish our
countrymen of Peter's class would imitate him in his better qualities, and try to avoid his
failings.

THE LIANHAN SHEE.

One summer evening Mary Sullivan was sitting at her own well-swept hearthstone, knitting feet
to a pair of sheep's gray stockings for Bartley, her husband. It was one of those serene evenings
in the month of June, when the decline of day assumes a calmness and repose, resembling what
we might suppose to have irradiated Eden, when our first parents sat in it before their fall.
The beams of the sun shone through the windows in clear shafts of amber light, exhibiting millions
of those atoms which float to the naked eye within its mild radiance. The dog lay barking in
his dreams at her feet, and the gray cat sat purring placidly upon his back, from which even
his occasional agitation did not dislodge her.

Mrs. Sullivan was the wife of a wealthy farmer, and niece to the Rev. Felix O'Rourke; her kitchen
was consequently large, comfortable, and warm. Over where she sat, jutted out the "brace" well
lined with bacon; to the right hung a well-scoured salt-box, and to the left was the jamb,
with its little gothic paneless window to admit the light. Within it hung several ash rungs,
seasoning for flail-sooples, or boulteens, a dozen of eel-skins, and several stripes of horse-skin,
as hangings for them. The dresser was a "parfit white," and well furnished with the usual appurtenances.
Over the door and on the "threshel," were nailed, "for luck," two horse-shoes, that had been
found by accident. In a little "hole" in the wall, beneath the salt-box, lay a bottle of holy
water to keep the place purified; and against the cope-stone of the gable, on the outside,
grew a large lump of house-leek, as a specific for sore eyes and other maladies.

In the corner of the garden were a few stalks of tansy "to kill the thievin' worms in the childhre,
the crathurs," together with a little Rose-noble, Solomon's Seal, and Bu-gloss, each for some
medicinal purpose. The "lime wather" Mrs. Sullivan could make herself, and the "bog bane" for
the Unh roe, (* Literally, red water) or heart-burn, grew in their own meadow drain; so that,
in fact, she had within her reach a very decent pharmacopoeia, perhaps as harmless as that
of the profession itself. Lying on the top of the salt-box was a bunch of fairy flax, and sewed
in the folds of her own scapular was the dust of what had once been a four-leaved shamrock,
an invaluable specific "for seein' the good people," if they happened to come within the bounds
of vision. Over the door in the inside, over the beds, and over the cattle in the outhouses,
were placed branches of withered palm, that had been consecrated by the priest on Palm Sunday;
and when the cows happened to calve, this good woman tied, with her own hands, a woollen thread
about their tails, to prevent them from being overlooked by evil eyes, or elf-shot* by the
fairies, who seem to possess a peculiar power over females of every species during the period
of parturition. It is unnecessary to mention the variety of charms which she possessed for
that obsolete malady the colic, the toothache, headache, or for removing warts, and taking
motes out of the eyes; let it suffice to inform our readers that she was well stocked with
them; and that, in addition to this, she, together with her husband, drank a potion made up
and administered by an herb-doctor, for preventing forever the slightest misunderstanding or
quarrel between man and wife. Whether it produced this desirable object or not our readers
may conjecture, when we add, that the herb-doctor, after having taken a very liberal advantage
of their generosity, was immediately compelled to disappear from the neighborhood, in order
to avoid meeting with Bartley, who had a sharp lookout for him, not exactly on his own account,
but "in regard," he said, "that it had no effect upon Mary, at all, at all;" whilst Mary, on
the other hand, admitted its efficacy upon herself, but maintained, "that Bartley was worse
nor ever afther it."

     * This was, and in remote parts of the country still
     is, one of the strongest instances of belief in the
     power of the Fairies. The injury, which, if not
     counteracted by a charm from the lips of a "Fairy-man,"
     or "Fairy-woman," was uniformly inflicted on the animal
     by what was termed an elf-stone--which was nothing
     more nor less than a piece of sharp flint, from three
     to four or five ounces in weight. The cow was supposed
     to be struck upon the loin with it by these mischievous
     little beings, and the nature of the wound was indeed
     said to be very peculiar--that is, it cut the midriff
     without making any visible or palpable wound on the
     outward skin. All animals dying of this complaint,
     were supposed to be carried to the good people, and
     there are many in the country who would not believe
     that the dead carcass of the cow was that of the real
     one at all, but an old log or block of wood, made to
     resemble it. All such frauds, however, and deceptions
     were inexplicable to every one, but such as happened to
     possess a four-leaved shamrock, and this enabled its
     possessor to see the block or log in its real shape,
     although to others it appeared to be the real carcass.

Such was Mary Sullivan, as she sat at her own hearth, quite alone, engaged as we have represented
her. What she may have been meditating on we cannot pretend to ascertain; but after some time,
she looked sharply into the "backstone," or hob, with an air of anxiety and alarm. By and by
she suspended her knitting, and listened with much earnestness, leaning her right ear over
to the hob, from whence the sounds to which she paid such deep attention proceeded. At length
she crossed herself devoutly, and exclaimed, "Queen of saints about us!--is it back ye are?
Well sure there's no use in talkin', bekase they say you know what's said of you, or to you--an'
we may as well spake yez fair.--Hem--musha, yez are welcome back, crickets, avourneenee! I
hope that, not like the last visit ye ped us, yez are comin' for luck now! Moolyeen (* a cow
without horns) died, any way, soon afther your other kailyee, (* short visit) ye crathurs ye.
Here's the bread, an' the salt, an' the male for yez, an' we wish ye well. Eh?--saints above,
if it isn't listenin' they are jist like a Christhien! Wurrah, but ye are the wise an' the
quare crathurs all out!"

She then shook a little holy water over the hob, and muttered to herself an Irish charm or
prayer against the evils which crickets are often supposed by the peasantry to bring with them,
and requested, still in the words of the charm, that their presence might, on that occasion,
rather be a presage of good fortune to man and beast belonging to her.

"There now, ye dhonans (* a diminuitive, delicate little thing) ye, sure ye can't say that
ye're ill-thrated here, anyhow, or ever was mocked or made game of in the same family. You
have got your hansel, an' full an' plenty of it; hopin' at the same time that you'll have no
rason in life to cut our best clothes from revinge. Sure an' I didn't desarve to have my brave
stuff long body (* an old-fashioned Irish gown) riddled the way it was, the last time ye wor
here, an' only bekase little Barny, that has but the sinse of a gorsoon, tould yez in a joke
to pack off wid yourself somewhere else. Musha, never heed what the likes of him says; sure
he's but a caudy, (* little boy) that doesn't mane ill, only the bit o' divarsion wid yez."

She then resumed her knitting, occasionally stopping, as she changed her needles, to listen,
with her ear set, as if she wished to augur from the nature of their chirping, whether they
came for good or for evil. 

By the way that I am the most miserable of all men, he said the fisherman. For Confession around
the world have been the most famous merchant of Babylon curds of all, and I've lost everything. Had
the most beautiful woman that man can possess, and I was deceived. I had a bad hut, and have
been cut down, or shelter to a hut, without further recourse to fishing, no coat or a fish. Do
not want to throw yourself into the water, red dear, I am who I am pulling. Saying these words arose
in the posture of a man determined to put an end to his life in the stream.

So, he said Zadig to himself, other men as unhappy as me! As soon as this idea was that of going
to fight to the death of the fisherman. Run to him, stops him and asks questions in softened
and comforting gesture. Say it is one less unhappy Quando is not alone; but according to Zoroaster
is not malice, that is by necessity, because it feels so attracted to another as a fellow unfortunate
own. The joy of a happy out insult and are two hapless as two skinny trees that, supporting one another,
against the storm are strengthened.

Why do you surrender you to your fate? 'said Zadig to the fisherman. Because I see no remedy
for it, answered. I have been the more affluent neighboring village Derlback, near Babylon; with
the help of my wife to the best curds of the empire, who liked to infinity to queen Astarte and
the famous minister Zadig. Speech delivered to both of hundred houses
curd: I went one day to Babylon to pay me, and I knew that night it
had Zadig and queen disappeared. This note was necessary
     in order to render the conduct and language of Mary
     Sullivan perfectly intelligible.

At this moment, the shadow of a person passing the house darkened the window opposite which
she sat, and immediately a tall female, of a wild dress and aspect, entered the kitchen.

"Gho manhy dhea ghud, a ban chohr! the blessin' o' goodness upon you, dacent woman," said Mrs.
Sullivan, addressing her in those kindly phrases so peculiar to the Irish language.

Instead of making her any reply, however, the woman, whose eye glistened with a wild depth
of meaning, exclaimed in low tones, apparently of much anguish, "Husht, husht', dherum! husht,
husht, I say--let me alone--I will do it--will you husht? I will, I say--I will--there now--that's
it--be quiet, an' I will do it--be quiet!" and as she thus spoke, she turned her face back
over her left shoulder, as if some invisible being dogged her steps, and stood bending over her.

"Gho manhy dhea ghud, a ban chohr, dherhum areesh! the blessin' o' God on you, honest woman,
I say again," said Mrs. Sullivan, repeating that sacred form of salutation with which the peasantry
address each other. "'Tis a fine evenin', honest woman, glory be to him that sent the same,
and amin! If it was cowld, I'd be axin' you to draw your chair in to the fire: but, any way,
won't you sit down?"

As she ceased speaking, the piercing eye of the strange woman became riveted on her with a
glare, which, whilst it startled Mrs. Sullivan, seemed full of an agony that almost abstracted
her from external life. It was not, however, so wholly absorbing as to prevent it from expressing
a marked interest, whether for good or evil, in the woman who addressed her so hospitably.

"Husht, now--husht," she said, as if aside--"husht, won't you--sure I may speak the thing to
her--you said it--there now, husht!" And then fastening her dark eyes on Mrs. Sullivan, she
smiled bitterly and mysteriously.

"I know you well," she said, without, however, returning the blessing contained in the usual
reply to Mrs. Sullivan's salutation--"I know you well, Mary Sullivan--husht, now, husht--yes,
I know you well, and the power of all that you carry about you; but you'd be better than you
are--and that's well enough now--if you had sense to know--ah, ah, ah!--what's this!" she exclaimed
abruptly, with three distinct shrieks, that seemed to be produced by sensations of sharp and
piercing agony.

"In the name of goodness, what's over you, honest woman?" inquired Mrs. Sullivan, as she started
from her chair, and ran to her in a state of alarm, bordering on terror--"Is it sick you are?"

The woman's face had got haggard, and its features distorted; but in a few minutes they resumed
their peculiar expression of settled wildness and mystery. "Sick!" she replied, licking her
parched lips, "awirck, awirek! look! look!" and she pointed with a shudder that almost convulsed
her whole frame, to a lump that rose on her shoulders; this, be it what it might, was covered
with a red cloak, closely pinned and tied with great caution about her body--"'tis here! I
have it!"

"Blessed mother!" exclaimed Mrs. Sullivan, tottering over to her chair, as finished a picture
of horror as the eye could witness, "this day's Friday: the saints stand betwixt me an' all
harm! Oh, holy Mary protect me! Nhanim an airh," in the name of the Father, etc., and she forthwith
proceeded to bless herself, which she did thirteen times in honor of the blessed virgin and
the twelve apostles.

"Ay, it's as you see!" replied the stranger, bitterly. "It is here--husht, now--husht, I say--I
will say the thing to her, mayn't I? Ay, indeed, Mary Sullivan, 'tis with me always--always.
Well, well, no, I won't. I won't--easy. Oh, blessed saints, easy, and I won't."

In the meantime Mrs. Sullivan had uncorked a bottle of holy water, and plentifully bedewed
herself with it, as a preservative against this mysterious woman and her dreadful secret.

"Blessed mother above!" she ejaculated, "the Lianhan Shee" And as she spoke, with the holy
water in the palm of her hand, she advanced cautiously, and with great terror, to throw it
upon the stranger and the unearthly thing she bore.

"Don't attempt it!" shouted the other, in tones of mingled fierceness and terror, "do you want
to give me pain without keeping yourself anything at all safer? Don't you know it doesn't care
about your holy water? But I'd suffer for it, an' perhaps so would you."

Mrs. Sullivan, terrified by the agitated looks of the woman, drew back with affright, and threw
the holy water with which she intended to purify the other on her own person.

"Why thin, you lost crathur, who or what are you at all?--don't, don't--for the sake of all
the saints and angels of heaven, don't come next or near me--keep your distance--but what are
you, or how did you come to get that 'good thing' you carry about wid you?"

"Ay, indeed!" replied the woman bitterly, "as if I would or could tell you that! I say, you
woman, you're doing what's not right in asking me a question you ought not let to cross your
lips--look to yourself, and what's over you."

The simple woman, thinking her meaning literal, almost leaped off her seat with terror, and
turned up her eyes to ascertain whether or not any dreadful appearance had approached her,
or hung over her where she sat.

"Woman," said she, "I spoke you kind an' fair, an' I wish you well--but"--

"But what?" replied the other--and her eyes kindled into deep and profound excitement, apparently
upon very slight grounds.

"Why--hem--nothin' at all sure, only"--

"Only what?" asked the stranger, with a face of anguish that seemed to torture every feature
out of its proper lineaments.

"Dacent woman," said Mrs. Sullivan, whilst the hair began to stand with terror upon her head,
"sure it's no wondher in life that I'm in a perplexity, whin a Lianhan Shee is undher the one
roof wid me. 'Tisn't that I want to know anything' at all about it--the dear forbid I should;
but I never hard of a person bein' tormented wid it as you are. I always used to hear the people
say that it thrated its friends well."

"Husht!" said the woman, looking wildly over her shoulder, "I'll not tell: it's on myself I'll
leave the blame! Why, will you never pity me? Am I to be night and day tormented? Oh, you're
wicked an' cruel for no reason!"

"Thry," said Mrs. Sullivan, "an' bless yourself; call on God."

"Ah!" shouted the other, "are you going to get me killed?" and as she uttered the words, a
spasmodic working which must have occasioned great pain, even to torture, became audible in
her throat: her bosom heaved up and down, and her head was bent repeatedly on her breast, as
if by force.

"Don't mention that name," said she, "in my presence, except you mean to drive me to utter
distraction. I mean," she continued, after a considerable effort to recover her former tone
and manner--"hear me with attention--I mean, woman--you, Mary Sullivan--that if you mention
that holy name, you might as well keep plunging sharp knives into my heart! Husht! peace to
me for one minute, tormentor! Spare me something, I'm in your power!"

"Will you ate anything?" said Mrs. Sullivan; "poor crathur, you look like hunger an' distress;
there's enough in the house, blessed be them that sent it! an' you had betther thry an' take
some nourishment, any way;" and she raised her eyes in a silent prayer of relief and ease for
the unhappy woman, whose unhallowed association had, in her opinion, sealed her doom.

"Will I?--will I?--oh!" she replied, "may you never know misery for offering it! Oh, bring
me something--some refreshment--some food--for I'm dying with hunger."

Mrs. Sullivan, who, with all her superstition, was remarkable for charity and benevolence,
immediately placed food and drink before her, which the stranger absolutely devoured--taking
care occasionally to secrete under the protuberance which appeared behind her neck, a portion
of what she ate. This, however, she did, not by stealth, but openly; merely taking means to
prevent the concealed thing, from being, by any possible accident discovered.

When the craving of hunger was satisfied, she appeared to suffer less from the persecution
of her tormentor than, before; whether it was, as Mrs. Sullivan thought, that the food with
which she plied it, appeased in some degree its irritability, or lessened that of the stranger,
it was difficult to say; at all events, she became more composed; her eyes resumed somewhat
of a natural expression; each sharp ferocious glare, which shot, from them! with such intense
and rapid flashes, partially disappeared; her knit brows dilated, and part of a forehead, which
had once been capacious and handsome, lost the contractions which deformed it by deep wrinkles.
Altogether the change was evident, and very-much relieved Mrs. Sullivan, who could not avoid
observing it.

"It's not that I care much about it, if you'd think it not right o' me, but it's odd enough
for you to keep the lower part of your face muffled up in that black cloth, an' then your forehead,
too, is covered down on your face a bit? If they're part of the bargain,"--and she shuddered
at the thought--"between you an' anything that's not good--hem!--I think you'd do well to throw
thim off o' you, an' turn to thim that can protect you from everything that's bad. Now a scapular
would keep all the divils in hell from one; an' if you'd"--

On looking at the stranger she hesitated, for the wild expression of her eyes began to return.

"Don't begin my punishment again," replied the woman; "make no allus--don't make mention in
my presence of anything that's good. Husht,--husht,--it's beginning--easy now--easy! No," said
she, "I came to tell you, that only for my breakin' a vow I made to this thing upon me, I'd
be happy instead of miserable with it. I say, it's a good thing to have, if the person will
use this bottle," she added, producing one, "as I will direct them."

"I wouldn't wish, for my part," replied Mrs. Sullivan, "to have anything to do wid it--neither
act nor part;" and she crossed herself devoutly, on contemplating such an unholy alliance as
that at which her companion hinted.

"Mary Sullivan," replied the other, "I can put good fortune and happiness in the way of you
and yours. It is for you the good is intended; if you don't get both, no other can," and her
eyes kindled as she spoke, like those of the Pythoness in the moment of inspiration.

Mrs. Sullivan looked at her with awe, fear, and a strong mixture of curiosity; she had often
heard that the Lianhan Shee had, through means of the person to whom it was bound, conferred
wealth upon several, although it could never render this important service to those who exercised
direct authority over it. She therefore experienced something like a conflict between her fears
and a love of that wealth, the possession of which was so plainly intimated to her.

"The money," said she, "would be one thing, but to have the Lianhan Shee planted over a body's
shouldher--och; the saints preserve us!--no, not for oceans' of hard goold would I have it
in my company one minnit. But in regard to the money--hem!--why, if it could be managed widout
havin' act or part wid that thing, people would do anything in rason and fairity."

"You have this day been kind to me," replied the woman, "and that's what I can't say of many--dear
help me!--husht! Every door is shut in my face! Does not every cheek get pale when I am seen?
If I meet a fellow-creature on the road, they turn into the field to avoid me; if I ask for
food, it's to a deaf ear I speak; if I am thirsty, they send me to the river. What house would
shelter me? In cold, in hunger, in drought, in storm, and in tempest, I am alone and unfriended,
hated, feared, an' avoided; starving in the winter's cold, and burning in the summer's heat.
All this is my fate here; and--oh! oh! oh!--have mercy, tormentor--have mercy! I will not lift
my thoughts there--I'll keep the paction--but spare me now!"

She turned round as she spoke, seeming to follow an invisible object, or, perhaps, attempting
to get a more complete view of the mysterious being which exercised such a terrible and painful
influence over her. Mrs. Sullivan, also, kept her eye fixed upon the lump, and actually believed
that she saw it move. Fear of incurring the displeasure of what it contained, and a superstitious
reluctance harshly to thrust a person from her door who had eaten of her food, prevented her
from desiring the woman to depart.

"In the name of Goodness," she replied, "I will have nothing to do wid your gift. Providence,
blessed be his name, has done well for me an' mine, an' it mightn't be right to go beyant what
it has pleased him to give me."

"A rational sentiment!--I mean there's good sense in what you say," answered the stranger:
"but you need not be afraid," and she accompanied the expression by holding up the bottle and
kneeling: "now," she added, "listen to me, and judge for yourself, if what I say, when I swear
it, can be a lie." She then proceeded to utter oaths of the most solemn nature, the purport
of which Was to assure Mrs. Sullivan that drinking of the bottle would be attended with no
danger. "You see this little bottle, drink it. Oh, for my sake and your own drink it; it will
give wealth without end to you and to all belonging to you. Take one-half of it before sunrise,
and the other half when he goes down. You must stand while drinking it, with your face to the
east, in the morning; and at night, to the west. Will you promise to do this?"

"How would drinkin' the bottle get me money?" inquired Mrs. Sullivan, who certainly felt a
strong tendency of heart to the wealth.

"That I can't tell you now, nor would you understand it, even if I could; but you will know
all when what I say is complied with."

"Keep your bottle, dacent woman. I wash my hands of it: the saints above guard me from the
timptation! I'm sure it's not right, for as I'm a sinner, 'tis getting stronger every minute
widin me? Keep it! I'm loth to bid any one that ett o' my bread to go from my hearth, but if
you go, I'll make it worth your while. Saints above, what's comin' over me. In my whole life
I never had such a hankerin' afther money! Well, well, but it's quare entirely!"

"Will you drink it?" asked her companion. "If it does hurt or harm to you or yours, or anything
but good, may what is hanging over me be fulfilled!" and she extended a thin, but, considering
her years, not ungraceful arm, in the act of holding out the bottle to her kind entertainer.

"For the sake of all that's good and gracious take it without scruple--it is not hurtful, a
child might drink every drop that's in it. Oh, for the sake of all you love, and of all that
love you, take it!" and as she urged her, the tears streamed down her cheeks.

"No, no," replied Mrs. Sullivan, "it'll never cross my lips; not if it made me as rich as ould
Hendherson, that airs his guineas in the sun, for fraid they'd get light by lyin' past."

"I entreat you to take it?" said the strange woman.

"Never, never!--once for all--I say, I won't; so spare your breath."

The firmness of the good housewife was not, in fact to be shaken; so, after exhausting all
the motives and arguments with which she could urge the accomplishments of her design, the
strange woman, having again put the bottle into her bosom, prepared to depart.

She had now once more become calm, and resumed her seat with the languid air of one who has
suffered much exhaustion and excitement. She put her hand upon her forehead for a few moments,
as if collecting her faculties, or endeavoring to remember the purport of their previous conversation.
A slight moisture had broken through her skin, and altogether, notwithstanding her avowed criminality
in entering into an unholy bond, she appeared an object of deep compassion.

In a moment her manner changed again, and her eyes blazed out once more, as she asked her alarmed
hostess:--

"Again, Mary Sullivan, will you take the gift that I have it in my power to give you? ay or
no? speak, poor mortal, if you know what is for your own good?"

Mrs. Sullivan's fears, however, had overcome her love of money, particularly as she thought
that wealth obtained in such a manner could not prosper; her only objection being to the means
of acquiring it.

"Oh!" said the stranger, "am I doomed never to meet with any one who will take the promise
off me by drinking of this bottle? Oh! but I am unhappy! What it is to fear--ah! ah!--and keep
his commandments. Had I done so in my youthful time, I wouldn't now--ah--merciful mother, is
there no relief? kill me, tormentor; kill me outright, for surely the pangs of eternity cannot
be greater than those you now make me suffer. Woman," said she, and her muscles stood out in
extraordinary energy-- "woman, Mary Sullivan--ay, if you should kill me--blast me--where I
stand, I will say the word--woman--you have daughters--teach them--to fear-"

Having got so far, she stopped--her bosom heaved up and down--her frame shook dreadfully--her
eyeballs became lurid and fiery--her hands were clenched, and the spasmodic throes of inward
convulsion worked the white froth up to her mouth; at length she suddenly became like a statue,
with this wild, supernatural expression intense upon her, and with an awful calmness, by far
more dreadful than excitement could be, concluded by pronouncing, in deep, husky tones, the
name of God.

Having accomplished this with such a powerful struggle, she turned round, with pale despair
in her countenance and manner, and with streaming eyes slowly departed, leaving Mrs. Sullivan
in a situation not at all to be envied.

In a short time the other members of the family, who had been out at their evening employments,
returned. Bartley, her husband, having entered somewhat sooner than his three daughters from
milking, was the first to come in; presently the girls followed, and in a few minutes they
sat down to supper, together with the servants, who dropped in one by one, after the toil of
the day. On placing themselves about the table, Bartley, as usual, took his seat at the head;
but Mrs. Sullivan, instead of occupying hers, sat at the fire in a state of uncommon agitation.
Every two or three minutes she would cross herself devoutly, and mutter such prayers against
spiritual influences of an evil nature, as she could compose herself to remember.

"Thin, why don't you come to your supper, Mary," said the husband, "while the sowans are warm?
Brave and thick they are this night, any way."

His wife was silent; for so strong a hold had the strange woman and her appalling secret upon
her mind, that it was not till he repeated his question three or four times--raising his head
with surprise, and asking, "Eh, thin, Mary, what's come over you--is it unwell you are?"--that
she noticed what he said.

"Supper!" she exclaimed, "unwell! 'tis a good right I have to be unwell,--I hope nothin' bad
will happen, any way. Feel my face, Nanny," she added, addressing one of her daughters, "it's
as cowld an' wet as a lime-stone--ay, an' if you found me a corpse before you, it wouldn't
be at all strange."

There was a general pause at the seriousness of this intimation. The husband rose from his
supper, and went up to the hearth where she sat.

"Turn round to the light," said he; "why, Mary dear, in the name of wondher, what ails you?
for you're like a corpse, sure enough. Can't you tell us what has happened, or what put you
in such a state? Why, childhre, the cowld sweat's teemin' off her!"

The poor woman, unable to sustain the shock produced by her interview with the stranger, found
herself getting more weak, and requested a drink of water; but before it could be put to her
lips, she laid her head upon the back of the chair and fainted. Grief, and uproar, and confusion
followed this alarming incident. The presence of mind, so necessary on such occasions, was
wholly lost; one ran here, and another there, all jostling against each other, without being
cool enough to render her proper assistance. The daughters were in tears, and Bartley himself
was dreadfully shocked by seeing his wife apparently lifeless before him.

She soon recovered, however, and relieved them from the apprehension of her death, which they
thought had actually taken place. "Mary," said the husband, "something quare entirely has happened,
or you wouldn't be in this state!"

"Did any of you see a strange woman lavin' the house, a minute or two before ye came in?" she
inquired.

"No," they replied, "not a stim of any one did we see."

"Wurrah dheelish! No?--now is it possible ye didn't?" She then described her, but all declared
they had seen no such person.

"Bartley, whisper," said she, and beckoning him over to her, in a few words she revealed the
secret. The husband grew pale, and crossed himself. "Mother of Saints! childhre," said he,
"a Lianhan Shee!" The words were no sooner uttered than every countenance assumed the pallidness
of death: and every right hand was raised in the act of blessing the person, and crossing the
forehead. "The Lianhan Shee!!" all exclaimed in fear and horror--"This day's Friday, God betwixt
us an' harm!"*

     * This short form is supposed to be a safeguard against
     the Fairies. The particular day must be always named.

It was now after dusk, and the hour had already deepened into the darkness of a calm, moonless,
summer night; the hearth, therefore, in a short time, became surrounded by a circle, consisting
of every person in the house; the door was closed and securely bolted;--a struggle for the
safest seat took place, and to Bartley's shame be it spoken, he lodged himself on the hob within
the jamb, as the most distant situation from the fearful being known as the Lianhan Shee. The
recent terror, however, brooded over them all; their topic of conversation was the mysterious
visit, of which Mrs. Sullivan gave a painfully accurate detail; whilst every ear of those who
composed her audience was set, and every single hair of their heads bristled up, as if awakened
into distinct life by the story. Bartley looked into the fire soberly, except when the cat,
in prowling about the dresser, electrified him into a start of fear, which sensation went round
every link of the living chain about the hearth.

The next day the story spread through the whole neighborhood, accumulating in interest and
incident as it went. Where it received the touches, embellishments, and emendations, with which
it was amplified, it would be difficult to say; every one told it, forsooth, exactly as he
heard it from another; but indeed it is not improbable, that those through whom it passed were
unconscious of the additions it had received at their hands. It is not unreasonable to suppose
that imagination in such cases often colors highly without a premeditated design of falsehood.
Fear and dread, however, accompanied its progress; such families as had neglected to keep holy
water in their houses borrowed some from their neighbors; every old prayer which had become
rusty from disuse, was brightened up--charms were hung about the necks of cattle--and gospels
about those of children--crosses were placed over the doors and windows;--no unclean water
was thrown out before sunrise or after dusk--

     "E'en those prayed now who never prayed before.
     And those who always prayed, still prayed the more."

The inscrutable woman who caused such general dismay in the parish was an object of much pity.
Avoided, feared, and detested, she could find no rest for her weary feet, nor any shelter for
her unprotected head. If she was seen approaching a house, the door and windows were immediately
closed against her; if met on the way she was avoided as a pestilence. How she lived no one
could tell, for none would permit themselves to know. It was asserted that she existed without
meat or drink, and that she was doomed to remain possessed of life, the prey of hunger and
thirst, until she could get some one weak enough to break the spell by drinking her hellish
draught, to taste which, they said, would be to change places with herself, and assume her
despair and misery.

There had lived in the country about six months before her appearance in it, a man named Stephenson.
He was unmarried, and the last of his family. This person led a solitary and secluded life,
and exhibited during the last years of his existence strong symptoms of eccentricity, which,
for some months before his death, assumed a character of unquestionable derangement. He was
found one morning hanging by a halter in his own stable, where he had, under the influence
of his malady, committed suicide. At this time the public press had not, as now, familiarized
the minds of the people to that dreadful crime, and it was consequently looked upon then with
an intensity of horror, of which we can scarcely entertain any adequate notion. His farm remained
unoccupied, for while an acre of land could be obtained in any other quarter, no man would
enter upon such unhallowed premises. The house was locked up, and it was currently reported
that Stephenson and the devil each night repeated the hanging scene in the stable; and that
when the former was committing the "hopeless sin," the halter slipped several times from the
beam of the stable-loft, when Satan came, in the shape of a dark complexioned man with a hollow
voice, and secured the rope until Stephenson's end was accomplished.

In this stable did the wanderer take up her residence at night; and when we consider the belief
of the people in the night-scenes, which were supposed to occur in it, we need not be surprised
at the new feature of horror which this circumstance super-added to her character. Her presence
and appearance, in the parish were dreadful; a public outcry was soon raised against her, which,
were it not from fear of her power over their lives and cattle, might have ended in her death.
None, however, had courage to grapple with her, or to attempt expelling her by violence, lest
a signal vengeance might be taken on any who dared to injure a woman that could call in the
terrible aid of the Lianhan Shee.

In this state of feeling they applied to the parish priest, who, on hearing the marvellous
stories related concerning her, and on questioning each man closely upon his authority, could
perceive, that, like most other reports, they were to be traced principally to the imagination
and fears of the people. He ascertained, however, enough from Bartley Sullivan to justify a
belief that there was something certainly uncommon about the woman; and being of a cold, phlegmatic
disposition, with some humor, he desired them to go home, if they were wise--he shook his head
mysteriously as he spoke--"and do the woman no injury, if they didn't wish--" and with this
abrupt hint he sent them about their business.

This, however, did not satisfy them. In the same parish lived a suspended priest, called Father
Philip O'Dallaghy, who supported himself, as most of them do, by curing certain diseases of
the people--miraculously! He had no other means of subsistence, nor indeed did he seem strongly
devoted to life, or to the pleasures it afforded. He was not addicted to those intemperate
habits which characterize "Blessed Priests" in general; spirits he never tasted, nor any food
that could be termed a luxury, or even a comfort. His communion with the people was brief,
and marked by a tone of severe contemptuous misanthropy. He seldom stirred abroad except during
morning, or in the evening twilight, when he might be seen gliding amidst the coming darkness,
like a dissatisfied spirit. His life was an austere one, and his devotional practices were
said to be of the most remorseful character. Such a man, in fact, was calculated to hold a
powerful sway over the prejudices and superstitions of the people. This was true. His power
was considered almost unlimited, and his life one that would not disgrace the highest saint
in the calendar. There were not wanting some persons in the parish who hinted that Father Felix
O'Rourke, the parish priest, was himself rather reluctant to incur the displeasure, or challenge
the power, of the Lianhan Shee, by, driving its victim out of the parish. The opinion of these
persons was, in its distinct unvarnished reality, that Father Felix absolutely showed the white
feather on this critical occasion--that he became shy, and begged leave to decline being introduced
to this intractable pair--seeming to intimate that he did not at all relish adding them to
the stock of his acquaintances.

Father Philip they considered as a decided contrast to him on this point. His stern and severe
manner, rugged, and, when occasion demanded, daring, they believed suitable to the qualities
requisite for sustaining such an interview. They accordingly waited, on him; and after Bartley
and his friends had given as faithful a report of the circumstances as, considering all things,
could be expected, he told Bartley he would hear from Mrs. Sullivan's own lips the authentic
narrative. This was quite satisfactory, and what was expected from him. As for himself, he
appeared to take no particular interest in the matter, further than that of allaying the ferment
and alarm which had spread through the parish. 

Incessantly praised, cheated and stole to the good prince, and each put his hand like qual to
contention in the treasury. The chief minister of finances of the island of Serendib was this beautiful
exemplo, and all the underlings imitate him with fervor. The king, who knew, had moved several
times minister, but had never been able to move the accepted style of dividing the income real into
two unequal parts, the smaller one for his majesty, and more for their managers.

Good King relied Nabuzan his need of the wise Zadig. So many things you know, told him, do not
would know how to stop me with a treasurer who does not steal from me? " Yes indeed, "replied Zadig;
a sure way to pick you know one that has clean hands. Delighted the king asked him, giving him
a hug, as would. No more, "replied Zadig, which aim to Bayle to quanta the dignity of treasurer,
and that baylare lighter, more men will infallibly well. YOU ARE laughing at you, 'said the
king, so by diverting some of choosing a minister hacienda! With more than ready to give whatever
antics in the air has to be the most integrated and more able administrator? I'm not saying
it is to be the most able, "replied Zadig, but I do assure you is that undoubtedly has to be
the most honest. Such was the confidence with Zadig was saying it, that persuaded the king to possess
some secret knowledge supernatural administrators. I do not like things supernatural, he said
Zadig, and I have never bear with patience and men who do miracles, or the books that the mint,
and if you want your majesty allow me to do the test, will be convinced that my secret is so easy
as a single. More Nabuzan was astounded king of Serendib, to hear that the secret was simple,
that if I had said it was miraculous. Okay, I said to you, do as you please. Dexadlo be that
this test will earn more than what you think. That same day he sent a proclamation through name
of the king, who all aspired to employment quantos chief minister of the income Nabuzan his
sacred majesty, Nuzanab son, should come to light silk dresses to the antechamber King, the first
day of the moon's crocodile. Came to the number of sixty-four. Were musicians in a room immediately,
and arranged for a bayle, but the door was closed of the room, and she had to enter through a gallery
quite dark. Came a uxier to drive one after another to every candidate in this passage, where
you only dexaba few minutes. The king was advised, had actually put all their treasures in
the gallery. Quando suitors came to the hall, His Majesty commanded that Bayle, and never had
baylarines seen more moles or with less ease; all went head descends, the backs knees, and hands
attached to the body. What scoundrels! Zadig said in voice descends. To one swiftly moves, head
up, looking serene, the right body, and firm knees. What man so well, what sugeto honest! 'said
Zadig. He gave the king a hug baylarin to this good, and made him his treasurer, all others
were justly punished and fined, because while it had been in the gallery, each one had filled
his pockets, and could hardly take a step. Pitied the king of human nature, contemplating that
sixty baylarines four and sixty-three thieves were thieves, and given to the dark gallery running
title of temptation. Persia had been impaled in the sixty-three magnates; in other countries, had
appointed a court, which had consumed three times the costs stolen money, and had not put a
penny in the royal coffers, in others, would have justified fully, and would have fallen from grace
the lithe baylirin: in Serendib were condemned to increase the treasury, because it was very
Nabuzan item.

Was no less grateful, and gave a sum more quantiosa Zadig that nunra
treasurer had stolen neither the king his master.

Zadig value of this money to send him to Babylon Express report on the fate of Astarte. In giving
this order, her voice trembled, he rushed the blood towards the heart, is covered with a dark
veil their eyes, and stood on the point of death. Departed the post, board violates Zadig, and
returned to the palace, where without seeing anyone, and believing I was in his room, gave
the name of love. Yes, the love, the king said, that just question, and you have guessed the cause
of my pain. What a great man you are! I hope to teach me to know a strong woman, as I have done to
find a disinterested treasurer. Returning Zadig itself promised to serve in his love as he had done
in real estate, but seemed the most difficult undertaking yet.

CHAPTER XV.

Blue eyes.

My body and heart, the king said to Zadig ... Hearing these words could not help the Babylonian
to terminate his Majesty, and say, welcome Ouanto you have not told my soul and heart, because
we do not hear more voices that are in talks of Babylon, or read books do not address the heart
and soul, written by authors who have neither of them; but forgive me, Lord, so continue. Nabuzan
continued: My body and my heart are prone to love at the first of these two powers has plenty
of satisfaction, that I have a hundred wives at my disposal, all beautiful, obliging, obsequious,
and voluptuous, or pretending are with me. However my heart is not so lucky, because I have
had the most experience that flattered the King of Serendib, and they do very little appreciation
of Nabuzan. Why not I say that my wives are unfaithful because I want to find a like for me
own, and she turned a hundred beauties possess. Tell me if my hundred sultanas is a who really
loves me.

Zadig answered the same thing about the minister of finance. Lord dexadlo to my office; but
first let me have all the riches that were exhibited at the gallery of temptation, and do not
hesitate to give you a good account of them, and not lose a jot. The king gave him broad powers,
and chose Zadig humpback thirty-three the most ugly Serendib, thirty-three pages of the most
beautiful, and thirty-three of the most eloquent and strongmen monks. Dexóles power to all
toilets introduced in the sultanas; Hunchback gave to each four thousand gold coins to give away,
and the first day were all happy. The pages that had no other gift that you make your person,
take two or three days in getting what they requested, and had more difficulty in leaving his
non bonzes; but after they surrendered thirty-three devotees. Witnessed the king of all these
tests by giving a lattice in the chambers of the sultanas, and was stunned that their one hundred
ninety-nine wives surrendered to his presence. There was one very young and very novice to the qual
had never touched his majesty: arrimáronse to it one, two and three humps, ofrecréndole twenty thousand
pieces, but remained incorruptible, laughing at the idea of ​​the humpback they thought their
money made them more beautiful. Presented themselves the two most beautiful pages, and they he
said that the king seemed nicer. Bonzo Acometióla then the most eloquent, and then the more
adventurous: at first I tried to talkative, and could not understand was the merit of qual second.
Everything is put at the heart, said: "I shall not transfer or the gold of a hunchback, or
to the beauty of a page, or to the arts of a Buddhist monk, and I wish to anyone but Nabuzan; Nuzanab
son, waiting for him to me appropriate. King was arrested in joy, love and admiration. He returned
to take all the money that had bought the humpback good chance, and gave to the beautiful
Falida, which was the name this beauty. With him gave him his heart, he deserved to spare, because
it never looked brighter and more youth flowery yours, never beauty that was more worthy of
pledge. It is true that history is not silent than to misspell a courtesy, but confesses that
Baylan as fairies, sing like sirens, and talked like the Graces, and was full of skill and virtue.

Adorábala
Nabuzan beloved but Falida had blue eyes, caused the most dire qual
misfortunes.

It was forbidden by an ancient law of Serendib, who fell in love with one of the women who Greeks later
called BOOP, and to more than five thousand years had passed this bonzo the supreme law, by appropriating
to himself the lady of the first king of the island of Serendib, for so that the curse of
the blue eyes had made fundamental law of the state. All classes of states made strong representations
to Nabuzan, and publicly stated that arrival was the fatal catastrophe of the kingdom, which
was filled to the extent of the abomination, threatening event that an accident of nature, in
short, that Nabuzan, son of Nuzanab, was in love with two blue eyes tear. The humpback, the
monks, the contractors, and the black-eyed bad-happy tainted the entire kingdom.

Universal discontent encouraged to savage peoples living north of
Serendib to invade Nabuzan good states.

Subsidies requested his subjects, and the monks who owned half of state revenues, were content
to raise his hands to heaven, and refused to take their money out of breath treasury to the
king. Beautiful singing prayers in music, and dexáron the barbarians ravaged the state.

Dear Zadig, "Take me out of this horrible predicament? said to him
in piteous tone Nabuzan.

With much taste, "replied Zadig, the monks will give you money quanto distributions. Leave the
land where have raised their palaces and defendais no more than yours. Nabuzan did so, and Quando
monks came to lie at his feet, imploring his assistance, he answered them King with a superb
music whose lyrics were prayers to heaven, praying for conservation of their land. Then the
monks gave money, and happily concluded the war. Of Thus blessed by his prudent advice, and the
most important services, had Zadig brought the irreconcilable enemy of the most powerful state,
sworn in loss The monks and Oji-black desacreditáronle humpback and settlements, and we did suspect
the good Nabuzan. The services that the man does remain in the anteroom, and suspicion enter the
cabinet, according to Zoroaster. Every day new charges were, the first is repelled, the second
makes a dent, the third wound, and the fourth killed.

Scared Zadig, who had put the issues on the rise of his friend, and
sent her money, no thought more than part of the island and go in
person to know news of Astarte, because if I stay in Serendib, he
said, I will impale the monks.

"But where shall I go? Egypt I'll be a slave, according to Saudi appearances burned and hanged
in Babylon. With all necessary is to know what became of Astarte: Partamona, and troubles that
I intended my luck fatal.

CHAPTER XVI.

The bandit.

On arriving at the borders between Saudi petrea of ​​Syria, and to pass along to a strong castle,
left him a few armed Arabs. Saw himself surrounded by men who shouted: Give it up, all quanto
bring ours, and your person belong to our master. In response took Zadig the sword, so did the
young man who was brave, and to the lifeless dexáron first Arab that had rammed: doubled the
number of enemies, but they are not discouraged, and resolved to die in the fight. Víanse two men
defended themselves against a multitude; little contest so unequal could last. Looking from
a window the owner of the castle, Arboga named, the wonders of value to Zadig, charged him esteem.
Baxo therefore and came in person to restrain the sujos, and freed the two walkers. Quanto for
my land problem is mine, he said, not less than that encounter strange land, but you seem to me as
courageous, that I was exempt from the common law. Made him into the castle, ordering his troops
to treat him well, and wanted dinner that night with Zadig.

Was the master of this castle one of those Arabs who called thieves, the qual-thousand atrocities
used to do some good action, robbed with a furious rapacity, and gave lavishly: fearless in action, in
a good mood in the treatment of life, drinking at the table, good Quando had drunk humor, and above
all without any overlaps. Gustóle much Zadig, and the conversation which encouraged the banquet
last long. Arboga finally said to him: Aconsejoos you to take the game with me, you can not
do better, not so bad the office, and one day you can become what I am. Can you tell, "replied
Zadig, since Quando exercitais so noble profession? From child, "replied the master. It was
an Arab servant very clever, and could not get used to my state, desperate to see that land
belonging equally to all, I would not fit to me the relevant portion. My faithful old sentence
to an Arab, the qual said to me: "Son, do not despair, know ye that in ancient times had a grain
of sand that ached to be an atom stranger in a desert walk, he became a diamond, and is today
the most precious jewel in the crown of King of the Indies. Given me so much blow that answer, that
being grain Sandy Diamond I venture again. I won the first two horses, I joined with colleagues, I went
down shortly in the state of stealing caravans little flooding, and so was to reduce the disproportion
that I had to others. I participated in the goods of this world, v indemnified me with interest:
tuviéronme much, I became Mr. bandit stole this castle took him by force. He wanted her off the
satrap of Syria, but was already so wealthy that had nothing to fear: I gave money the satrap,
and preserve the castle, and enlarge my land, adding to them the charge I gave the satrap of treasurer
of the taxes paid by the Saudi petrea the King of Kings.

I made collections, and was relieved of payments.

Desterham sent here the great Babylon, on behalf of King Moabdar, to a satrapilla for hung. Quando
he arrived with the order, I was informed of everything, I hang on His presence the four persons
who brought them to tighten the noose around his neck, and asked quanto then you could invoke
the commission to hang myself. He replied that could gratification up to three hundred gold
coins, and I made do with evidence that would win me over: bottom bandit created him, and today
is one of the best and richest official that I have, and if you want me to believe, you will do
the same. Has never run better time to steal, since Moabdar has been killed, and who walks
in Babylon repite. Moabdar was dead! he said Zadig: What has been done the Queen Astarte? I
do not know, "replied Arboga, I do know, is Moabdar that went crazy, which was dead, that Babylon
is made a den of thieves throughout the empire in desolation, which
can give good shots, and I for my part I taken some Ballant.

For some minutes her struggle continued; but having begun at its highest pitch, it gradually
subsided until it settled in a calmness which appeared fixed and awful as the resolution of
despair. With breathless composure she turned round, and put back that part of her dress which
concealed her face, except the band on her forehead, which she did not remove; having done
this she turned again, and walked calmly towards Father Philip, with a deadly smile upon her
thin lips. When within a step of where he stood, she paused, and riveting her eyes upon him
exclaimed--

"Who and what am I? The victim of infidelity and you, the bearer of a cursed existence, the
scoff and scorn of the world, the monument of a broken vow and a guilty life, a being scourged
by the scorpion lash of conscience, blasted by periodical insanity, pelted by the winter's
storm, scorched by the summer's heat, withered by starvation, hated by man, and touched into
my inmost spirit by the anticipated tortures of future misery. I have no rest for the sole
of my foot, no repose for a head distracted by the contemplation of a guilty life; I am the
unclean spirit which walketh to seek rest and findeth none; I am--what you have made me! Behold,"
she added, holding up the bottle, "this failed, and I live to accuse you. But no, you are my
husband--though our union was but a guilty form, and I will bury that in silence. You thought
me dead, and you flew to avoid punishment--did you avoid it? No; the finger of God has written
pain and punishment upon your brow. I have been in all characters, in all shapes, have spoken
with the tongue of a peasant, moved in my natural sphere; but my knees were smitten, my brain
stricken, and the wild malady which banishes me from society has been upon me for years. Such
I am, and such, I say, have you made me. As for you, kind-hearted woman, there was nothing
in this bottle but pure water. The interval of reason returned this day, and having remembered
glimpses of our conversation, I came to apologize to you, and to explain the nature of my unhappy
distemper, and to beg a little bread, which I have not tasted for two days. I at times conceive
myself attended by an evil spirit shaped out by a guilty conscience, and this is the only familiar
which attends me, and by it I have been dogged into madness through every turning of life.
Whilst it lasts I am subject to spasms and convulsive starts which are exceedingly painful.
The lump on my back is the robe I wore when innocent in my peaceful convent."

The intensity of general interest was now transferred to Father Philip; every face was turned
towards him, but he cared not. A solemn stillness yet prevailed among all present. From the
moment she spoke, her eye drew his with the power of a basilisk. His pale face became like
marble, not a muscle moved; and when she ceased speaking, his blood-shot eyes were still fixed
upon her countenance with a gloomy calmness like that which precedes a tempest. They stood
before each other, dreadful counterparts in guilt, for truly his spirit was as dark as hers.

At length he glanced angrily around him;--"Well," said he, "what is it now, ye poor infatuated
wretches, to trust in the sanctity of man. Learn from me to place the same confidence in God
which you place in his guilty creatures, and you will not lean on a broken reed. Father O'Rourke,
you, too, witness my disgrace, but not my punishment. It is pleasant, no doubt, to have a topic
for conversation at your Conferences; enjoy it. As for you, Margaret, if society lessen misery,
we may be less miserable. But the band of your order, and the remembrance of your vow is on
your forehead, like the mark of Cain--tear it off, and let it not blast a man who is the victim
of prejudice still,--nay of superstition, as well as of guilt; tear it from my sight." His
eyes kindled fearfully, as he attempted to pull it away by force.

She calmly took it off, and he immediately tore it into pieces, and stamped upon the fragments
as he flung them on the ground.

"Come," said the despairing man--"come--there is a shelter for you, but no peace!--food, and
drink, and raiment, but no peace!--no peace!" As he uttered these words, in a voice that sank
to its deepest pitch, he took her hand, and they both departed to his own residence.

The amazement and horror of those who were assembled in Bartley's house cannot be described.
Our readers may be assured that they deepened in character as they spread through the parish.
An undefined, fear of this mysterious pair seized upon the people, for their images were associated
in their minds with darkness and crime, and supernatural communion. The departing words of
Father Philip rang in their ears: they trembled, and devoutly crossed themselves, as fancy
again repeated the awful exclamation of the priest--"No peace! no peace!"

When Father Philip and his unhappy associate went home, he instantly made her a surrender of
his small property; but with difficulty did he command sufficient calmness to accomplish even
this. He was distracted--his blood seemed to have been turned to fire--he clenched his hands,
and he gnashed his teeth, and exhibited the wildest symptoms of madness. About ten o'clock
he desired fuel for a large fire to be brought into the kitchen, and got a strong cord, which
he coiled and threw carelessly on the table. The family were then ordered to bed. About eleven
they were all asleep; and at the solemn hour of twelve he heaped additional fuel upon the living
turf, until the blaze shone with scorching light upon everything around. Dark and desolating
was the tempest within him, as he paced, with agitated steps, before the crackling fire.

"She is risen!" he exclaimed--"the spectre of all my crimes is risen to haunt me through life!
I am a murderer--yet she lives, and my guilt is not the less! The stamp of eternal infamy is
upon me--the finger of scorn will mark me out--the tongue of reproach will sting me like that
of a serpent--the deadly touch of shame will cover me like a leper--the laws of society will
crush the murderer, not the less that his wickedness in blood has miscarried: after that comes
the black and terrible tribunal of the Almighty's vengeance--of his fiery indignation! Hush!--What
sounds are those? They deepen--they deepen! Is it thunder? It cannot be the crackling of the
blaze! It is thunder!--but it speaks only to my ear! Hush!--Great God, there is a change in
my voice! It is hollow and supernatural! Could a change have come over me? Am I living? Could
I have----Hah!--Could I have departed? and am I now at length given over to the worm that never
dies? If it be at my heart, I may feel it. God!--I am damned! Here is a viper twined about
my limbs trying to dart its fangs into my heart! Hah!--there are feet pacing in the room, too,
and I hear voices! I am surrounded by evil spirits! Who's there?--What are you?--Speak!--They
are silent!--There is no answer! Again comes the thunder! But perchance this is not my place
of punishment, and I will try to leave these horrible spirits!"

He opened the door, and passed out into a small green field that lay behind the house. The
night was calm, and the silence profound as death. Not a cloud obscured the heavens; the light
of the moon fell upon the stillness of the scene around him, with all the touching beauty of
a moonlit midnight in summer. Here he paused a moment, felt his brow, then his heart, the palpitations
of which fell audibly upon his ear. He became somewhat cooler; the images of madness which
had swept through his stormy brain disappeared, and were succeeded by a lethargic vacancy of
thought, which almost deprived him of the consciousness of his own identity. From the green
field he descended mechanically to a little glen which opened beside it. It was one of those
delightful spots to which the heart clingeth. Its sloping sides were clothed with patches of
wood, on the leaves of which the moonlight glanced with a soft lustre, rendered more beautiful
by their stillness. That side on which the light could not fall, lay in deep shadow, which
occasionally gave to the rocks and small projecting precipices an appearance of monstrous and
unnatural life.

Here he stood, and looked upon the green winding margin of the streamlet--but its song he heard
not. With the workings of a guilty conscience, the beautiful in nature can have no association.
He looked up the glen, but its picturesque windings, soft vistas, and wild underwood mingling
with gray rocks and taller trees, all mellowed by the moonbeams, had no charms for him. He
maintained a profound silence--but it was not the silence of peace or reflection. He endeavored
to recall the scenes of the past day, but could not bring them back to his memory. Even the
fiery tide of thought, which, like burning lava, seared his brain a few moments before, was
now cold and hardened.

He could remember nothing. The convulsion of his mind was over, and his faculties were impotent
and collapsed.

In this state he unconsciously retraced his steps, and had again reached the paddock adjoining
his house, where, as he thought, the figure of his paramour stood before him. In a moment his
former paroxysm returned, and with it the gloomy images of a guilty mind, charged with the
extravagant horrors of brain-stricken madness.

"What!" he exclaimed, "the band still on your forehead! Tear it off!"

He caught at the form as he spoke, but there was no resistance to his grasp. On looking again
towards the spot it had ceased to be visible. 

Oh .-- CREMATURGO the highest lighthouse speculation! Oh despot of genius and other powers supernatural!
...

PROCLEAN .-- All right. Do not flatter me. Say what want from me.

CREMATURGO .-- You, who know everything, could not you tell me what medium I will use for my
beloved is mine, only mine?

.-- PROCLEAN not go as far my knowledge.

If you come, I would have spent on my behalf that failure has made
me good.

CREMATURGO .-- I see that you know is not worth a damn.
I thought so I tired. His state and his existence seemed to him a confused
and troubled dream; he tore his hair--threw it on the table--and immediately started back with
a hollow groan; for his locks, which but a few hours before had been as black as a raven's
wing, were now white as snow!

On discovering this, he gave a low but frantic laugh. "Ha, ha, ha!" he exclaimed; "here is
another mark--here is food for despair. Silently, but surely, did the hand of God work this,
as proof that I am hopeless! But I will bear it; I will bear the sight! I now feel myself a
man blasted by the eye of God Himself! Ha, ha, ha! Food for despair! Food for despair!"

Immediately he passed into his own room, and approaching the looking-glass beheld a sight calculated
to move a statue. His hair had become literally white, but the shades of his dark complexion,
now distorted by terror and madness, flitted, as his features worked under the influence of
his tremendous passions, into an expression so frightful, that deep fear came over himself.
He snatched one of his razors, and fled from the glass to the kitchen. He looked upon the fire,
and saw the white ashes lying around its edge.

"Ha!" said he, "the light is come! I see the sign. I am directed, and I will follow it. There
is yet one hope. The immolation! I shall be saved, yet so as by fire. It is for this my hair
has become white;--the sublime warning for my self-sacrifice! The color of ashes!--white--white!
It is so! I will sacrifice my body in material fire, to save my soul from that which is eternal!
But I had anticipated the sign. The
style of the translator is also in line with the author, and it is strong, concise and sublime,
culterano and as natural, and clear, and dark, elegant and sharp, and low and despicable. Mr.
Clark wants, but translated, traced to Shakspeare, and I think he
succeeds. It is not, I believe, more than forty,
     or perhaps fifty, years since a priest committed his
     body to the flames, for the purpose of saving his soul
     by an incrematory sacrifice. The object of the suicide
     being founded on the superstitious belief, that a
     priest guilty of great crimes possesses the privilege
     of securing salvation by self-sacrifice. We have heard
     two or three legends among the people in which this
     principle predominated. The outline of one of these,
     called "The Young Priest and Brian Braar," was as
     follows:--

     A young priest on his way to the College of Valladolid,
     in Spain, was benighted; but found a lodging in a small
     inn on the roadside. Here he was tempted by a young
     maiden of great beauty, who, in the moment of his
     weakness, extorted from him a bond signed with his
     blood, binding himself to her forever. Who doubt,
however, that fortune is the most powerful element of value?

Faust, Marguerite and Mephistopheles, and Werther and Charlotte, in German literature, and
only D. Quixote, Sancho, Dulcinea and D. Juan Tenorio, in Spanish, are the characters for notoriety,
fame, glory and splendor can be compared to the characters of Shakspeare,
in other European literatures.

But it depends on that in the dramas of Lope, Tirso, Calderon, Moreto, Alarcón y Rojas, that
throughout our great Spanish drama no more characters D. John, with much encouragement of life,
so predestination for immortality, like the heroes shakspearianos?

The I really do not exist in our great Spanish drama other characters who live like those. Was
decline of our poets or fortune?

Shakspeare wrote for a people who began to be large, which would extend his empire, to improve
their own civilization castiza and to disseminate and enforce it for all regions the world.
As he wrote to the people, wrote inspired and full of thoughts and feelings Village, and his
mind and his works are swollen with the future; contain in germ all the spirit of England
in the day. Our dramatic wrote also for the people inspired and filled
with people's feelings, but of a people who died, of a people castiza
and whose civilization itself would disappear, and whose spirit then
there was no be the spirit of today. He then returned
     homewards, and both had reached a hill-side near
     Bryan's house, when the latter desired the young priest
     to remain there a few minutes, and he would return to
     him; which he did with a hatchet in his hand.

     "Now," said he, "you must cut me into four quarters,
     and mince my body into small bits, then cast them into
     the air, and let them go with the wind."

     The priest, after much entreaty, complied with his
     wishes, and returned to Lough Derg, where he afterwards
     lived twelve years upon one meal of bread and water per
     diem. Having thus purified himself, he returned home;
     but, on passing the hill where he had minced the Friar,
     he was astonished to see the same man celebrating mass,
     attended by a very penitential looking congregation of
     spirits.

     "Ah," said Brian Braar, when mass was over, "you are
     now a happy man. With regard to my state for the
     voluntary sacrifice I have made of myself, I am to be
     saved; but I must remain on this mountain until the Day
     of Judgment." So saying, he disappeared.

     There is little to be said about the superstition of
     the Lianhan Shee, except that it existed as we have
     drawn it, and that it is now fading fast away. There is
     also something appropriate in associating the heroine
     of this little story with the being called the Lianhan
     Shee, because, setting the superstition aside, any
     female who fell into her crime was called Lianhan
     Shee. Lianhan Shee an Sogarth signifies a priest's
     paramour, or, as the country people say, "Miss." Both
     terms have now nearly become obsolete.

We must here draw a veil over that which ensued, as the description of it would be both unnatural
and revolting. Let it be sufficient to say, that the next morning he was found burned to a
cinder, with the exception of his feet and legs, which remained as monuments of, perhaps, the
most dreadful suicide that ever was committed by man. His razor, too, was found bloody, and
several clots of gore were discovered about the hearth; from which circumstances it was plain
that he had reduced his strength so much by loss of blood, that when he committed himself to
the flames, he was unable, even had he been willing, to avoid the fiery and awful sacrifice
of which he made himself the victim. If anything could deepen the the impression of fear and
awe, already so general among the people, it was the unparalleled nature of his death. Its
circumstances are yet remembered in the parish and county wherein it occurred--for it is no
fiction, gentle reader! and the titular bishop who then presided over the diocese, declared,
that while he lived, no person bearing the unhappy man's name should ever be admitted to the
clerical order.

