It broke the spell of awe that had lain upon him, so that he felt for the moment only a pious
horror of her speech. He called Christina to take charge of her, and Martha, the second wife,
to put away her little bundle of clothing, and Tom Potwin to fetch water for her bath. He himself
went to be alone where he could think what must be done for her. From an entry in the little
Bible, written in letters that seemed to shout to him the accusation of his crime, he had found
that she must now be five years old. It was plainly time that he should begin to supply her
very apparent need of religious instruction.

When she had become a little used to her surroundings later in the day, he sought to beguile
her to this end, beginning diplomatically with other matters.

"Come, tell me your name, dear."

She allowed her attention to be diverted from her largest doll.

"My name is Prudence--" She hesitated.

"Prudence--what?"

"I--I lost my mind of it." She looked at him hopefully, to be prompted.

"Prudence Rae."

She repeated the name, doubtingly, "Prudence Rae?"

"Yes--remember now--Prudence Rae. You are my little girl--Prudence Rae."

"But you're not my really papa--he's went far off--oh, ten ninety miles far!"

"No, Prudence--God is your Father in heaven, and I am your father on earth--"

"But not my papa!"

"Listen, Prudence--do you know what you are?"

The puzzled look she had worn fled instantly from her face.

"I'm a generation of vipers."

She made the announcement with a palpable ring of elation in her tones, looking at him proudly,
and as if waiting to hear expressions of astonishment and delight.

"Child, child, who has told you such things? You are not that!"

She retorted, indignantly now, the lines drawing about her eyes in signal of near-by tears:

"I am a generation of vipers--the Bishop said I was--he told that other mamma, and I am it!"

"Well, well, don't cry--all right--you shall be it--but I can tell you something much nicer."
He assumed a knowing air, as one who withheld knowledge of overwhelming fascinations.

"Tell me--what?"

And so, little by little, hardly knowing where to begin, but feeling that any light whatsoever
must profit a soul so benighted, he began to teach her. When she had been put to bed at early
candle-light, he went to see if she remembered her lesson.

"What is the name of God in pure language?"

And she answered, with zest, "Ahman."

"What is the name of the Son of God?"

"Son Ahman,--the greatest of all the parts of God excepting Ahman."

"What is the name of man?"

"Sons Ahman."

"That is good--my little girl shall be chosen of the Lord."

He waited by her until sleep should come, but her mind had been stirred, and long after he
thought she slept she startled him by asking, in a voice of entire wakefulness: "If I am a
good little girl, and learn all the right things--then can I be a generation of vipers?" She
lingered with relish on the phrase, giving each syllable with distinctness and gusto. When
he was sure that she slept, he leaned over very carefully and kissed the pillow beside her head.

In the days that followed he wooed her patiently, seeking constantly to find some favour with
her, and grateful beyond words when he succeeded ever so little. At first, he could win but
slight notice of any sort from her, and that only at rare and uncertain intervals. But gradually
his unobtrusive efforts told, and, little by little, she began to take him into her confidence.
The first day she invited him to play with her in one of her games was a day of rejoicing for
him. She showed him the dolls.

"Now, this is the mother and this is the little baby of it, and we will have a tea-party."

She drew up a chair, placed the two dolls under it, and pointed to the opening between the rungs.

"Here is the house, and here is a little door where to go in at. You must be very, very particulyar
when you go in. Now what shall we cook?" And she clasped her hands, looking up at him with
waiting eagerness.

He suggested cake and tea. But this answer proved to be wrong. 

Of the chapter Buffalo, we will soon content ourselves with calling attention
in his certain points that every one will be able to grasp.

The marrowbones to all this are so numerous and so striking that one scarcely knows which to choose,
nor where to begin. She was compelled at last to dismiss him, though
she accomplished the ungracious thing tactfully.

"Perhaps you have some farming to do out at the barn, because my dollies can't be very well
with you at a tea-party, because you are too much."

But she had shown a purpose of friendliness, and this sufficed him. And that night, before
her bed-time, when he sat in front of the fire, she came with a most matter-of-fact unconsciousness
to climb into his lap. He held her a long time, trying to breathe gently and not daring to
move lest he make her uncomfortable. Her head pillowed on his arm, she was soon asleep, and
he refused to give her up when Martha came to put her to bed.

Though their intimacy grew during the winter, so that she called him her father and came confidingly
to him at all times, in tears or in laughter, yet he never ceased to feel an aloofness from
her, an awkwardness in her presence, a fear that the mother who looked from her eyes might
at any moment call to him.

That winter was also a time for the other members of the household to adapt themselves to their
new life. The two wives attended capably to the house. The imbecile boy, who had once loved
one of them to his own undoing, but who no longer knew her, helped them a little with the work,
though for the most part he busied himself by darting off upon mysterious and important errands
which he would appear to recall suddenly, but which, to his bewilderment, he seemed never able
to finish. The other member of the household, Delight Tench, the gaunt, gray woman, still made
sallies out to the main road to search for her deceived husband; but they taught her after
a little never to go far from the settlement, and to come back to her home each night.

During the winter evenings, when they sat about the big fireplace, the master of the house
taught them the mysteries of the Kingdom as revealed by God to Joseph, and then to Brigham,
who had been chosen by Joseph as was Joshua by Moses to be a prophet and leader.

In time Brigham would be gathered to his Father, and in the celestial Kingdom, his wives having
been sealed to him for eternity, he would beget millions and myriads of spirits. During this
period of increase he would grow in the knowledge of the Gods, learning how to make matter
take the form he desired. Noting the vast increase in his family, he would then say: "Let us
go and make a world upon which my family of spirits may live in bodies of grosser matter, and
so gain valuable experience."

At the word of command, thereupon spoken by Brigham, the elements would come together in a
new world. This he would beautify, planting seeds upon it, telling the waters where to flow,
placing fishes in them, putting fowls in the air and beasts in the field. Then, calling it
all good, he would say to his favourite wife: "Let us go down and inhabit this new home." And
they would go down, to be called Adam and Eve by some future Moses.

Eve would presently be tempted by Satan to eat fruit from the one tree they had been forbidden
to touch, and Brigham as Adam would then partake of it, too, so she should not have to suffer
alone. In a thousand years they would die, after raising many tabernacles of flesh into which
their spirit children from the celestial world would have come to find abode.

Brigham, going back to the celestial world, would keep watch over these earthly children of
his. Yet in their fallen nature they would in time forget their father Brigham, the world whence
they came, and the world whither they were going. Sometimes he would send messages to the purest
of them, and at all times he would keep as near to them as they would let him. At last he would
lay a plan to bring them all again into his presence. For he would now have become the God
they should worship. He would send to these children of earth his oldest son, entrusted with
the mission of redeeming them, and only faith in the name of this son would secure the favour
of the father.

Joel Rae instructed his wondering household, further, that such glory as this would be reserved,
not for Brigham alone, but for the least of the Saints. Each Saint would progress to Godhead,
and go down with his Eve to make and people worlds without end. This, he explained, was why
God had made space to be infinite, since nothing less could have room for the numberless seed
of man. In conclusion, he gave them the words of the Heaven-gifted Brigham: "Let all who hear
these doctrines pause before they make light of them or treat them with indifference, for they
will prove your salvation or your damnation."

Yet often during that winter while he talked these doctrines he would find his mind wandering,
and there would come before his eyes a little printed page with a wash of blood across it,
and he would be forced to read in spite of himself the verses that were magnified before his
eyes. The priesthood of which he was a product dealt but little with the New Testament. They
taught from the Old almost wholly, when they went outside the Book of Mormon and the revelations
to Joseph Smith--of the God of Israel who was a God of Battle, loving the reek of blood and
the smell of burnt flesh on an altar--rather than of the God of the Nazarene.

He found himself turning to this New Testament, therefore, with a curious feeling of interest
and surprise, dwelling long at a time upon its few, simple, forthright teachings, being moved
by them in ways he did not comprehend, and finding certain of the dogmas of his Church sounding
strangely in his ears even when his own lips were teaching them. He taught the child to pray,
"O God, let my father have due punishment for all his sins, but teach him never to offend any
little child from this day forth." 

If a man be walking in a trance towards the crumbling in edge of some precipice, who-- let me ask--
lands with the handout, and he who is afraid to intervene, and will calmly allow himself in
the petition to locomotion, till he listen over the abyss; or he who will not shout, and, if
need, neither agitate him from his following sleep, and so, perhaps, save her from termination?
Surely, to allow a fellow-creature to follow a path of extreme, for alarm of wounding his
susceptibilities and incurring his anger, by candidly pointing out his peril, is the mark, not
of a lover of his brethren, and rather of one who loves himself would alone.
This must be done, even though it may sometimes raise pain and cause.
Ghastly charity urges us to set forth the truth in all its nakedness
and beauty.
It was not only the home of the highest Church official in the community, but it was the largest
and best-furnished house, so that visiting dignitaries stayed there. It stood a little way
from the loose-edged group of cabins that formed the nucleus of the settlement, on ground a
little higher, and closer to the wooded cañon that gashed the hills on the east.

The style of house most common in the village was long, low-roofed, of hewn logs, its front
pierced by alternating doors and windows. From the number of these might usually be inferred
the owner's current prospects for glory in the Kingdom; for behind each door would be a wife
to exalt him, and to be exalted herself thereby in the sole way open to her, to thrones, dominion,
and power in the celestial world. There were many of these long, profusely doored houses; but
many, too, of less external promise; of two doors or even one. Yet in a hut of one door a well-wived
Saint might be building up the Kingdom temporarily, until he could provide a more spacious
setting for the several stars in his crown.

Then there was the capable Bishop Wright, whose long domestic barracks were the first toward
the main road beyond Bishop Coltrin's modest two-doored hut. The Wild Ram of the Mountains,
having lately been sealed to his twelfth wife, and having no suitable apartment for her, had
ingeniously contrived a sleeping-place in a covered wagon-box at the end of the house,--an
apartment which was now being occupied, not without some ungraceful remonstrance, by his first
wife, a lady somewhat far down in the vale of years and long past the first glamour of her
enthusiasm for the Kingdom. It had been her mischance to occupy previously in the community-house
that apartment which the good man saw to be most suitable for his young and somewhat fastidious
bride. Not without makeshifts, indeed, many of which partook of this infelicity, was the celestial
order of marriage to be obeyed and the world brought back to its primitive purity and innocence.

And of all persons in any degree distressed about these or other matters of faith, Joel Rae
was made the first confidant and chief comforter. In the case just cited, for example, Bishop
Wright had confessed to him that, if anything could make him break asunder the cable of the
Church of Christ, it would be the perplexity inevitable to a maintenance of domestic harmony
under the celestial order. The first wife also distressed this adviser with a moving tale of
her expulsion from a comfortable room into the incommodious wagon-box.

Many of these confidences, as the days went by, he found spirit-grieving in the extreme, so
that he was often weary and longed for refuge in a wilderness. Yet he never failed to let fall
some word that might be monitory or profitable to those who took him their troubles; nor did
he forget to exult in these burdens that were put upon him, for he had resolved that his cross
should be made as heavy as he could bear.

In addition to his duties as spiritual adviser to the community, it was his office to preach;
also to hold himself at the call of the afflicted, to anoint their heads with oil and rebuke
their fevers. He took an especial pleasure in this work of healing, being glad to leave his
fields by day or his bed by night for the sickroom. By couches of suffering he watched and
prayed, and when they began to say in Amalon that his word of rebuke to fevers came with strange
power, that his touch was marvellously healing, and his prayers strangely potent, he prayed
not to be set up thereby, nor to forget that the power came, not by him but through him, because
of his knowing his own unworthiness. He fasted and prayed to be trusted still more until he
should be worthy of that complete power which the Master had said came only by prayer and fasting.

The conscientious manner in which he performed his offices was favourably commented upon by
Bishop Wright. This good man believed there had been a decline of late in the ardour of the
priesthood.

"I tell you, Elder, I wish they was all as careful as you be, but they're falling into shiftless
ways. If I'm sick and have to depend on myself, all right. I'll dose up with lobelia or gamboge,
or put a blister-plaster on the back of my neck or take a drink of catnip tea or composition,
and then the cure of my misery is with the Lord God of Hosts. But if I send for an administrator,
it's different. He takes the responsibility and I want him to fulfil every will of the Lord.
When an Elder comes to administer to me and is afraid of greasing his fingers or of dropping
a little oil on his vest, and says, 'Oh, never mind the oil! there ain't any virtue in the
olive-oil; besides, I might grease my gloves,' why I feel like telling such a Godless critter
to walk off. When God says anoint with oil, anoint, I don't care if it runs down his beard
as it ran down Aaron's. And I don't want to talk anybody down or mention any names; but, well,
next time when I got a cold and Elder Beil Wardle is the only administrator free, why, I'll
just stand or fall by myself. A basin of water-gruel, hot, with half a quart of old rum in
it and lots of brown sugar, is better than all his anointing."

To make his days busier there were the affairs of the Church to oversee, for he was now President
of the local Stake of Zion; reports of the teachers to consider in council meeting, of their
weekly visits to each family, and of the fidelity of each of its members to the Kingdom. And
there were the Deacons and Priests of the Aaronic Order and other Elders and Bishops of the
Order of Melchisedek to advise with upon the temporal and spiritual affairs of Israel; to labour
and pray with Peregrine Noble, who had declared that he would no longer be as limber as a tallowed
rag in the hands of the priesthood, and to deliver him over to the buffetings of Satan in the
flesh if he persisted in his blasphemy; to rebuke Ozro Cutler for having brazenly sought to
pay on his tithing some ten pounds of butter so redolent of garlic that the store had refused
to take it from him in trade; to counsel Mary Townsley that Pye Townsley would come short of
his glory before God if she remained rebellious in the matter of his sealing other jewels to
his crown; to teach certain unillumined Saints something of the ethics of unbranded cattle;
and to warn settlers against isolating themselves in the outlying valleys where they would
be a temptation to the red sons of Laman.

Again there was the rite of baptism to be administered,--not an onerous office in the matter
of the living, but apt to become so in the case of the dead; for the whole world had been in
darkness and sin since the apostolic gifts were lost, ages ago, and the number of dead whose
souls now waited for baptism was incalculable; and not until the living had been baptised for
them could they enter the celestial Kingdom. In consequence, all earnest souls were baptised
tirelessly for their loved ones who had gone behind the veil before Peter, James, and John
ordained Joseph Smith.

But the unselfish did not confine their efforts to friends and relatives. In the village of
Amalon that winter and spring, Amarintha, third wife of Sarshell Sweezy, bethought her to be
baptised for Queen Anne; whereupon Ezra Colver at once underwent the same rite for this lamented
queen's husband, Prince George of Denmark; thereby securing the prompt admission of the royal
couple to the full joys of the Kingdom.

Attention being thus turned to royalty, the first Napoleon and his first consort were baptised
into heaven by thoughtful proxies; then Queen Elizabeth and Henry the Eighth. Eric Glines,
being a liberal-minded man, was baptised for George Washington, thus adding the first President
of the Gentile nation to the galaxy of Mormon Saints reigning in heaven. Gilbroid Sumner thereupon
won the fervent commendation of his Elder by submitting twice to burial in the waters of baptism
for the two thieves on the cross.

From time to time the little settlement was visited by officials of the Church who journeyed
south from Salt Lake City; perhaps one of the powerful Twelve Apostles, those who bind on earth
that which is bound in heaven; or High Priests, Counsellors, or even Brigham himself with his
favourite wife and a retinue of followers in stately procession.

Late in the spring, also, came the Patriarch in the Church, Uncle John Young, eldest brother
of Brigham. It was the office of this good man to dispense blessings to the faithful; blessings
written and preserved reverently in the family archives as charms to ward off misfortune. Through
all the valleys Uncle John was accustomed to go on his mission of light. When he reached a
settlement announcement was made of his headquarters, and the unblessed were invited to wait
upon him.

The cynical had been known to complain that Uncle John was a hard man to deal with, especially
before money was current in the Territory, when blessings had to be paid for in produce. Many
a Saint, these said, had long gone unblessed because the only produce he had to give chanced
to meet no need of Uncle John. Further, they gossiped, if paid in butter or fine flour or fat
turkeys when these were scarce, Uncle John was certain to give an unusually strong blessing,
perhaps insuring, on top of freedom from poverty and disease, the prolongation of life until
the coming of the Messiah. Yet it is not improbable that all these tales were insecurely based
upon a single instance wherein one Starling Driggs, believing himself to stand in urgent need
of a blessing, had offered to pay Uncle John for the service in vinegar. It had been unexceptionable
vinegar, as Uncle John himself admitted, but being a hundred miles from home, and having no
way to carry it, the Patriarch had been obliged to refuse; which had seemed to most people
not to have been more than fell within the lines of reason.

As for the other stories, it is enough to say that Uncle John was himself abundantly blessed
with wives and children needing to be fed, that the labourer is worthy of his hire, and that
it was sometimes vexatious to follow rapid fluctuations in the market value of butter, eggs,
beef, potatoes, beet-molasses, and the like. Certain it is that after money came to circulate
it was a much more satisfactory business all around; two dollars a blessing--flat, and no grievances
on either side, with a slight reduction if several were blessed in one family. When Uncle John
laid his hands upon a head after that, every one knew the exact pecuniary significance of the act.

When the Patriarch stopped at Amalon that spring, at the house of Joel Rae, there were many
blessings to be made, and from morning until night for several days he was busy with the writing
of them. Two members of the household he interested to an uncommon degree,--the child, Prudence,
who forthwith began daily to promise her dolls that they should not taste of death till Christ
came, and Tom Potwin, the imbecile, who became for some unknown reason covetous of a blessing
for himself. He stayed about the Patriarch most of the time, bothering him with appeals for
one of his blessings. But Uncle John, though a good man, had been gifted by Heaven with slight
imagination, and Tom Potwin would doubtless have had to go without this luxury but for a chance
visitor to the house one day.

This was no less a person than Bishop Snow, he who had once been Tom Potwin's rival for the
hand of her who was now the second Mrs. Rae. With his portly figure, his full, florid face
with its massive jaw, and his heavy locks of curling white hair, the good Bishop seemed indeed
to have deserved the title put upon him years ago by the Church Poet,--The Entablature of Truth.

He alighted from his wagon and greeted Uncle John, busy with the writing of his blessings in
the cool shade just outside the door.

"Good for you, Uncle John! Be a fountain of living waters to the thirsty in Zion. Say, who's
that?" and he pointed to Tom Potwin who had been wistfully watching the pen of the Patriarch
as it ran over his paper. Uncle John regarded the Bishop shrewdly.

"You ought to know, Brother Snow. 'Tain't so long since you and him were together."

The Bishop looked closely again, and the boy now returned his gaze with his own weakly foolish
look.

"Well! If it ain't that Tom Potwin. The Lord certainly hardened his heart against counsel to
his own undoing. I tried every way in the world--say, what's he doing here?"

"Oh, Brother Rae has given him a home here along with that first woman of Brother Tench's.
The crazy loon has been bothering me all week to give him a blessing."

The Entablature of Truth chuckled, being not without a sense of humour.

"Well, say, give him one if he wants it. Here--here's your two dollars--write him a good one now."

Uncle John took the money, and at once began writing upon a clean sheet of paper. The boy stood
by watching him eagerly, and when the Patriarch had finished the document took it from him
with trembling hands. The Bishop spoke to him.

"Here, boy, let's see what Uncle John gives us for our money."

With some misgiving the owner of the blessing relinquished it into the Bishop's hand, watching
it jealously, though listening with delight while his benefactor read it.

"Patriarchal blessing of Tom Potwin by John Young, Patriarch, given at Amalon June 1st, 1859.
Brother Tom Potwin, in the name of Jesus of Nazareth and by authority of the Holy Priesthood
in me vested, I confer upon thee a Patriarch's blessing. Thou art of Ephraim through the loins
of Joseph that was sold into Egypt. And inasmuch as thou hast obeyed the requirements of the
Gospel thy sins are forgiven thee. Thy name is written in the Lamb's book of life never more
to be blotted out. Thou art a lawful heir to all the blessings of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob
in the new and everlasting covenant. Thou shalt have a numerous posterity who shall rise up
to call thee blessed. Thou shalt have power over thine enemies. They that oppose thee shall
yet come bending unto thee. Thou shalt come forth in the morning of the first resurrection,
and no power shall hinder except the shedding of innocent blood or the consenting thereto.
I seal thee up to eternal life in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost.
Amen and amen!"

The worthy Bishop handed the paper back to the enraptured boy, and turned to Joel Rae, who
now came up.

"Hello, Brother Rae. I hear you took on that thirteenth woman of mine. Much good it'll do you!
She was unlucky for me, sure enough-- rambunctious when she was healthy, and lazy when she
was sick!"

When they came out of the house half an hour later, he added in tones of confidential warning:

"Say, you want to look out for her--I see she's getting the red back in her blood!"

CHAPTER XXVI.

How the Red Came Back to the Blood to be a Snare

The watchful eyes of the Bishop had seen truly. Not only was the red coming back to the blood
of Martha, but the fair flesh to her meagre frame, the spring of youth to her step and living
fire to her voice and the glance of her eyes. Her husband was pleased. He had made a new creature
of the poor, worn wreck found by the wayside, weak, emaciated, reeling under her burden. He
rejoiced to know he had done a true service. He was glad, moreover, to know that she made an
admirable mother to the little woman-child. Prudence, indeed, had brought them closer to each
other, slowly, subtly, in little ways to disarm the most timid caution.

And this mothering and fathering of little Prudence was a work by no means colourless or uneventful.
The child had displayed a grievous capacity for remaining unimpressed by even the best-weighed
opinions of her protector. She was also appallingly fluent in and partial to the idioms and
metaphors of revealed religion,--a circumstance that would not infrequently cause the sensitive
to shudder.

Thus, when she chose to call her largest and least sightly doll the Holy Ghost, the ingenuity
of those about her was taxed to rebuke her in ways that would be effective without being harsh.
It was felt, too, that her offence had been but slightly mitigated when she called the same
doll, thereafter, "Thou son of perdition and shedder of innocent blood." No. in vain does the Archbishop of Canterbury of to-day claim continuity
with the glance pre-"Improvement"

Archbishops. From no one would be establish to admit such a title. It
may be constrained that this is of no importance.

It may not be in itself, but it is the straw which shows the way wind blows; and intelligibly
proves that the finding of the world and the less great centres were of Christianity against continuity.
Let us occupy another "straw". Before the pseudo-Reformation there
were Cardinals exert authority in the Christian in England.

 She was taught these verses from a little old book bound in the gaudiest of Dutch gilt
paper, as if to relieve the ever-present severity of the text and the distressing scenes portrayed
in the illustrating copperplates. For example, on a morning when there had been hasty words
at breakfast, arising from circumstances immaterial to this narrative, she might be made to
learn:--

  "That I did not see Frances just now I am glad,
   For Winifred says she looked sullen and sad.
   When I ask her the reason, I know very well
   That Frances will blush the true reason to tell.

  "And I never again shall expect to hear said
   That she pouts at her milk with a toast of white bread,
   When both are as good as can possibly be--
   Though Betsey, for breakfast, perhaps may have tea."

With no sort of propriety could be set down in printed words the occurrence that led to her
reciting twenty times, somewhat defiantly in the beginning, but at last with the accents and
expression of countenance proper to remorse, the following verses:--

  "Who was it that I lately heard
   Repeating an improper word?
   I do not like to tell her name
   Because she is so much to blame."

Indeed, she came to thunder the final verse with excellent gestures of condemnatory rage:--

  "Go, naughty child! and hide your face,
   I grieve to see you in disgrace;
   Go! you have forfeited to-day
   All right at trap and ball to play."

Nor is it necessary to go back of the very significant lines themselves to explain the circumstance
of her having the following for a half-day's burden:--

  "Jack Parker was a cruel boy,
   For mischief was his sole employ;
   And much it grieved his friends to find
   His thoughts so wickedly inclined.

  "But all such boys unless they mend
   May come to an unhappy end,
   Like Jack, who got a fractured skull
   Whilst bellowing at a furious bull."

Nor is there sufficient reason to say why she was often counselled to regard as her model:--

  "Miss Lydia Banks, though very young,
   Will never do what's rude or wrong;
   When spoken to she always tries
   To give the most polite replies."

And painful, indeed, would it be to relate the events of one sad day which culminated in her
declaiming at night, with far more than perfunctory warmth, and in a voice scarce dry of tears:--

  "Miss Lucy Wright, though not so tall,
   Was just the age of Sophy Ball;
   But I have always understood
   Miss Sophy was not half so good;
   For as they both had faded teeth,
   Their teacher sent for Doctor Heath.

  "But Sophy made a dreadful rout
   And would not have hers taken out;
   While Lucy Wright endured the pain,
   Nor did she ever once complain.
   Her teeth returned quite sound and white,
   While Sophy's ached both day and night."

