D.W.]

A THORNY PATH

By Georg Ebers

Volume 9.

CHAPTER XXVI

The lady Euryale's silent prayer was interrupted by the return of Alexander.  He brought the
clothes which Seleukus's wife had given him for Melissa.  He was already dressed in his best,
and crowned like all those who occupied the first seats in the Circus; but his festal garb
accorded ill with the pained look on his features, from which every trace had vanished of the
overflowing joy in life which had embellished them only this morning.

He had seen and heard things which made him feel that it would no longer be a sacrifice to
give his life to save his sister.

Sad thoughts had flitted across his cheerful spirit like dark bats, even while he was talking
with Melissa and her protectress, for he knew well how infinitely hard his father would find
it to have to quit Alexandria; and if he himself fled with Melissa he would be obliged to give
up the winning of fair Agatha.  The girl's Christian father had indeed received him kindly,
but had given him to understand plainly enough that he would never allow a professed heathen
to sue for his daughter's hand.  Besides this, he had met with other humiliations which placed
themselves like a wall between him and his beloved, the only child of a rich and respected
man.  He had forfeited the right of appearing before Zeus as a suitor; for indeed he was no
longer such as he had been only yesterday.

The news that Caracalla proposed to marry Melissa had been echoed by insolent tongues, with
the addition that he, Alexander, had ingratiated himself with Caesar by serving him as a spy.
No one had expressly said this to him; but, while he was hurrying through the city in Caesar's
chariot, on the ladies' message, it had been made very plain to his apprehension.  Honest men
had avoided him--him to whom hitherto every one for whose regard he cared had held out a friendly
hand; and much else that he had experienced in the course of this drive had been unpleasant
enough to give rise to a change of his whole inner being.

The feeling that every one was pointing at him the finger of scorn, or of wrath, had never
ceased to pursue him.  And he had been under no illusion; for when he met the old sculptor
Lysander, who only yesterday had so kindly told him and Melissa about Caesar's mother, as he
nodded from the chariot his greeting was not returned; and the honest artist had waved his
hand with a gesture which no Alexandrian could fail to understand as meaning, "I no longer
know you, and do not wish to be recognized by you."

He had from his childhood loved Diodoros as a brother, and in one of the side streets, down
which the chariot had turned to avoid the tumult in the Kanopic way, Alexander had seen his
old friend.  He had desired the charioteer to stop, and had leaped out on the road to speak
to Diodoros and give him at once Melissa's message; but the young man had turned his back with
evident displeasure, and to the painter's pathetic appeal, "But, at any rate, hear me!"  he
answered, sharply: "The less I hear of you and yours the better for me.  Go on--go on, in Caesar's
chariot!"

With this he had turned away and knocked at the door of an architect who was known to them
both; and Alexander, tortured with painful feelings, had gone on, and for the first time the
idea had taken possession of him that he had indeed descended to the part of spy when he had
betrayed to Caesar what Alexandrian wit had to say about him.  He could, of course, tell himself
that he would rather have faced death or imprisonment than have betrayed to Caracalla the name
of one of the gibers; still, he had to admit to himself that, but for the hope of saving his
father and brother from death and imprisonment, he would hardly have done Caesar such service.
The mercy shown to them was certainly too like payment, and his own part in the matter struck
him as hateful and base.  His fellow-townsmen had a right to bear him a grudge, and his friends
to keep out of his way.  A feeling came over him of bitter self-contempt, hitherto strange
to him; and he understood for the first time how Philip could regard life as a burden and call
it a malicious Danaus-gift of the gods.  When, finally, in the Kanopic way, close in front
of Seleukus's house, a youth unknown to him cried, scornfully, as the chariot was slowly making
its way through the throng, "The brother-in-law of Tarautas!" he had great difficulty in restraining
himself from leaping down and letting the rascal feel the weight of his fists.  He knew, too,
that Tarautas was the name of a hateful and bloodthirsty gladiator which had been given as
a nickname to Caesar in Rome; and when he heard the insolent fellow's cry taken up by the mob,
who shouted after him, "Tarautas's brother-in-law!" wherever he went, he felt as though he
were being pelted with mire and stones.

It would have been a real comfort to him if the earth would have opened to swallow him with
the chariot, to hide him from the sight of men.  He could have burst out crying like a child
that has been beaten.  When at last he was safe inside Seleukus's house, he was easier; for
here he was known; here he would be understood.  Berenike must know what he thought of Caesar's
suit, and seeing her wholesome and honest hatred, he had sworn to himself that he would snatch
his sister from the hands of the tyrant, if it were to lead him to the most agonizing death.

While she was engaged in selecting a dress for her protegee, he related to the lady Euryale
what had happened to him in the street and in the house of Seleukus.  He had been conducted
past the soldiers in the vestibule and impluvium to the lady's private rooms, and there he
had been witness to a violent matrimonial dispute.  Seleukus had previously delivered to his
wife Caesar's command that she should appear in the Amphitheater with the other noble dames
of the city.  Her answer was a bitter laugh, and a declaration that she would mingle with the
spectators in none but mourning robes.  Thereupon her husband, pointing out to her the danger
to which such conduct would expose them, had raised objections, and she at last had seemed
to yield.  When Alexander joined her he had found her in a splendid dress of shining purple
brocade, her black hair crowned with a wreath of roses, and a splendid diadem; a garland of
roses hung across her bosom, and precious stones sparkled round her throat and arms.  In short,
she was arrayed like a happy mother for her daughter's wedding-day.

Soon after Alexander's arrival Seleukus had come in, and this conspicuously handsome dress,
so unbecoming to the matron's age, and so unlike her usual attire-chosen, evidently, to put
the monstrosity of Caesar's demand in the strongest light--had roused her husband's wrath.
He had expressed his dissatisfaction in strong terms, and again pointed out to her the danger
in which such a daring demonstration might involve them; but this time there was no moving
the lady; she would not despoil herself of a single rose.  After she had solemnly declared
that she would appear in the Circus either as she thought fit or not at all, her husband had
left her in anger.

"What a fool she is!" Euryale exclaimed.

Then she showed him a white robe of beautiful bombyx, woven in the isle of Kos, which she had
decided on for Melissa, and a peplos with a border of tender sea-green; and Alexander approved
of the choice.

Time pressed, and Euryale went at once to Melissa with the new festal raiment.  Once more she
nodded kindly to the girl, and begged her, as she herself had something to discuss with Alexander,
to allow the waiting- woman to dress her.  She felt as if she were bringing the robe to a condemned
creature, in which she was to be led to execution, and Melissa felt the same.

Euryale then returned to the painter, and bade him end his narrative.

The lady Berenike had forthwith desired Johanna to pack together all the dead Korinna's festal
dresses.  Alexander had then followed her guidance, accompanying her to a court in the slaves'
quarters, where a number of men were awaiting her.  These were the captains of Seleukus's ships,
which were now in port, and the superintendents of his granaries and offices, altogether above
a hundred freedmen in the merchant's service. Each one seemed to know what he was here for.

The matron responded to their hearty greetings with a word of thanks, and added, bitterly:

"You see before you a mourning mother whom a ruthless tyrant compels to go to a festival thus--thus--only
look at me--bedizened like a peacock!"

At this the bearded assembly gave loud expression to their dissatisfaction, but Berenike went
on "Melapompus has taken care to secure good places; but he has wisely not taken them all together.
You are all free men; I have no orders to give you.  But, if you are indeed indignant at the
scorn and heart-ache inflicted on your lord's wife, make it known in the Circus to him who
has brought them on her.  You are all past your first youth, and will carefully avoid any rashness
which may involve you in ruin.  May the avenging gods aid and protect you!"

With this she had turned her back on the multitude; but Johannes, the Christian lawyer, the
chief freedman of the household, had hurried into the court-yard, just in time to entreat her
to give up this ill-starred demonstration, and to extinguish the fire she had tried to kindle.
So long as Caesar wore the purple, rebellion against him, to whom the Divinity had intrusted
the sovereignty, was a sin.  The scheme she was plotting was meant to punish him who had pained
her; but she forgot that it might cost these brave men, husbands and fathers, their life or
liberty.  The vengeance she called on them to take might be balm to the wounds of her own heart;
but if Caesar in his wrath brought destruction down on these, her innocent instruments, that
balm would turn to burning poison.

These words, whispered to her with entire conviction, had not been without their effect.  For
some minutes Berenike had stared gloomily at the ground; but then she had again approached
the assembly, to repeat the warning given her by the Christian, whom all respected, and by
whom some indeed had been persuaded to be baptized.

"Johannes is right," she ended.  "This ill-used heart did wrong when it sent up its cry of
anguish before you.  Rather will I be trodden under foot by the enemy, as is the manner of
the Christians, than bring such misfortune on innocent men, who are so faithful to our house.
Be cautious, then.  Give no overt expression to your feelings.  Let each one who feels too
weak to control his wrath, avoid the Circus; and those who go, keep still if they feel moved
to act in my behalf.  One thing only you may do.  Tell every one, far and wide, what I had
purposed. What others may do, they themselves must answer for."

The Christian had strongly disapproved of this last clause; but Berenike had paid no heed,
and had left the court-yard, followed by Alexander.

The shouts of the indignant multitude had rung in their ears, and, in spite of her warning,
they had sounded like a terrible threat.  Johannes, to be sure, had remained, to move them
to moderation by further remonstrances.

"What were the mad creatures plotting?" Euryale anxiously broke in; and he hastily went on
"They call Caesar by no name but Tarautas; every mouth is full of gibes and rage at the new
and monstrous taxes, the billeting of the troops, and the intolerable insolence of the soldiery,
which Caracalla wickedly encourages.  His contemptuous indifference has deeply offended the
heads of the town.  And then his suit to my sister!  Young and old are wagging their tongues
over it."

"It would be more like them to triumph in it," said the matron, interrupting him.  "An Alexandrian
in the purple, on the throne of the Caesars!"

"I too had hoped that," cried Alexander, "and it seemed so likely.  But who can understand
the populace?  Every woman in the place, I should have thought, would hold her head higher,
at the thought that an Alexandrian girl was empress; but it was from the women that I heard
the most vindictive and shameless abuse.  I heard more than enough; for, as we got closer to
the Serapeum, the more slowly was the chariot obliged to proceed, to make its way through the
crowd.  And the things I heard!  I clinch my fists now as I only think of them.--And what will
it be in the Circus?  What will not Melissa have to endure!"

"It is envy," the matron murmured to herself; but she was immediately silent, for the young
girl came toward them, out of the bedroom.  Her toilet was complete; the beautiful white dress
became her well.  The wreath of roses, with diamond dewdrops, lay lightly on her hair, the
snake-shaped bracelet which her imperial suitor had sent her clasped her white arm, and her
small head, somewhat bent, her pale, sweet face, and large, bashful, inquiring, drooping eyes
formed such an engaging, modest, and unspeakably touching picture, that Euryale dared to hope
that even in the Circus none but hardened hearts could harbor a hostile feeling against this
gentle, pure blossom, slightly drooping with silent sorrow. She could not resist the impulse
to kiss Melissa, and the half-formed purpose ripened within her to venture the utmost for the
child's protection.  The pity in her heart had turned to love; and when she saw that to this
sweet creature, at the mere sight of whom her heart went forth, the most splendid jewels, in
which any other girl would have been glad to deck herself, were as a heavy burden to be borne
but sadly, she felt it a sacred duty to comfort her and lighten this trial, and shelter Melissa,
so far as was in her power, from insult and humiliation.

It was many years since she had visited the Amphitheater, where the horrible butchery was an
abomination to her; but to-day her heart bade her conquer her old aversion, and accompany the
girl to the Circus.

Had not Melissa taken the place in her heart of her lost daughter?  Was not she, Euryale, the
only person who, by showing herself with Melissa and declaring herself her friend, could give
the people assurance that the girl, who was exposed to misapprehension and odium by the favor
she had met with from the ruthless and hated sovereign, was in truth pure and lovable?  Under
her guardianship, by her side, the girl, as she knew, would be protected from misapprehension
and insult; and she, an old woman and a Christian, should she evade the first opportunity of
taking up a cross in imitation of the Divine Master, among whose followers she joyfully counted
herself--though secretly, for fear of men?  All this flashed through her mind with the swiftness
of lightning, and her call, "Doris!" addressed to her waiting-woman, was so clear and unexpected
that Melissa's overstrung nerves were startled. 

On the banks of the river, starting from its junction with the Paraná, live to the west, Abipones,
of which number is reduced to people. Others, with their friends Tuffs and Bermejo River Mocobís
make incursions across the borders of Santa Fe, Cordoba, Santiago del Estero, Salta and Jujuí, and
sometimes from Paraná, make their shots in the jurisdiction of Corrientes, and often from the river
Paraguay and ambushes in the mountains, make significant damage to the northernmost village of
the Guarani missions, and stays the jurisdiction of Paraguay. The Indians arrive in the western
part of Paraguay to the Pilcomayo.

From the Pilcomayo begins the land of the languages, which are all that part of the Chaco,
the Pilcomayo to the land of the Mbayas, and also pass Paraguay, to make their shots into the rooms
of the Assumption. These Indians are no headquarters, nor do they support missionaries.

From the river Xexuí the one and another band, live the Mbayas, divided into several installments.
Its main tolderías are the first and second band of Paraguay, the lands most immediate the south
of Pan de Azucar. These Indians are all the earth, from the Tacuarí Xexuí by the Eastern and
Western, until near the Chiquitos. From the Sugar Loaf towards the north western side living
in the manure. These are Indians who work their land to plant corn, and also make their crops
to the Mbayas, paying these your work. Above the Tacuarí there, in the river of Porrudos, similar
to other Indians way of life to the Payaguá, but of more value, and excellent archers. Judge
is not many nations, they do not fall in their canoes to the river Paraguay. The Portuguese,
sailing by Xarayes from Cuiaba to Mattogroso, said that some trees there, in waterlogged Xaraya
is allowed to see some Indians, though few. Do not know what nation they are. Can be some relics of
the Xarayes. Up here I do not know that Indians inhabit some on the banks of the river Paraguay.

*
* *

§. III.

Mountains and trees.

The Creator of all things gave us adjoining lands a nice Paraguay River object to the eye, with
admirable variety of mountains, hills, plains and forests. From Flows to the river Xexuí there
by a forest and another band with a great variety of plants. But the above is greater Xexuí
charm the eyes, because sometimes you discover a bouquet of the mountain all covered with
trees, other times it is a campaign full of grass very green, others are huge palm trees, a
particular species of palms, because Logs are soaring and rights, hardwood and round crown, with
similar branches to the palm of making brooms in Andalucia. Nor can find anything more apropos swiftly
to form the roofs of the houses, because in removing the glass, and cutting the trunk by the
foot, there's no more to do to apply to the work. These palm trees are common from the fields Xexuí
to Xerez. And as the logs are very clean, walk the Indians horseback through the palm, without any
pregnancy. The clusters of dates of these palms are smaller than regular palm, and dates are
also smaller in proportion.

I do not know if they are edible.

Generally speaking, all the hills and mountains are in many mountain slopes with tall trees and
very thick trunk. And there is no doubt that they would be, with so variety, precious woods.
We found by chance the tree where they get the rubber guta, or gamboge, which is a paste of very fine
yellow. The tall tree, not too thick, sheet similar to that of the laurel. He uncovered the tree
giving some cuts for entertainment in the bark of one of this species.

Then cut out by the liquid rubber, which soon rubber coagulates as seen in the pharmacy.

From Mboteteí, sailing up the river is the tree called Cachiguá, which has thin trunk, about twelve
to thirteen inches in diameter. The wood is red, a similar to vermilion color. The Portuguese
Cuyabá wood used in this red dye: say that the wood does not lose
color, and so exquisite for desktops and other works work.

Tree of the cassia trees, or casiafistula, are mountains in the vicinity of the Xarayes, and
grow taller and thicker than the brown of Spain. The bark is white, similar to those of the walnut.
The result is a beer and a half span, and some two feet long. Have in large grains such as
beans, grains and between some pulp black, used to purge soft, and
is sold in pharmacies.

The color of the cane, while ripe, is black as the pulp.

Taruma tree is a species of wild olive. The same size as that of the olive trees with little difference,
and even the leaf is not very different. The icing is like small olives, and has his blood like
olives.

The Paraguayans eat this fruit, but I found it bland.

It would be good to test whether it can be very useful oil, and even
if ignited in the Tarumas olive grafts.

* * *

§. IV.

Cuyabá facilities and Mattogroso.

The city of Cuiaba, according to some Portuguese maps, is at 14 degrees and 20 minutes south
latitude, and as inferred from the length that was found the mouth
of Xaurú, and distance is of Cuiaba, we can put this city in 322 degrees
of longitude, counting del Fierro, with a short difference.

Its situation is on the east of the river called Cuiaba, which to lead in the Porrudos, runs
north to south, and navigate to the Cuyabá port, a distance of two to three miles from the
city.

In the northern part extends for many miles the great mountains, where they have their origin the
two mighty rivers Paraná and Paraguay. And just for the north, down to the Topayos Marañon rivers,
Xingu, rio de Dos Bocas, Tocantins and others.

In the southern part of Cuyabá be stretched for many leagues the wetlands of Xarayes: from so
that this part can not enter into the city but by the stream. Nor is it possible that otherwise
you can pass people on foot or on horseback. In times of heavy rains flooded almost all the space
of sixty miles from north to south, and about the same from east
to west, that between the river and the mountains of Porrudos Cuyabá,
and may at this time through Cuyabá boats from the river Paraguay,
without getting to the Porrudos, but dry weather Cuyabá are reduced
and Paraguay rivers to their narrow and deep channels.

And although the intermediate space are many gaps, or there is no communication, or not been
discovered so far, where you can go through in straight from a river to the other. Therefore,
for sailing time from Cuiaba to Xaurú dry, and go to Mattogroso, are the Portuguese need to
give a great back, down the river of Porrudos, and for this the river Paraguay, by which to climb
back over sixty miles to the mouth of Xaurú.

On the east side has Cuyabá many Indian lands inhabited only infidels: and although there is
no way to go through this part of Brazil, is the way very long, very laborious and esponse to
the assaults of the barbarians and the black rebels. For these reasons there are few The Portuguese
who undertake the journey by land.

The great distance from Brazil, and laborious the road make the horses and mules in Cuyabá be
sold at prices very deep: it is sell an ordinary horse in a hundred pesos, and a mule in two hundred.

To the west, from Cuiaba to Mattogroso, be stretched some mountains, which are branches of
the great mountain or mountain range that we discussed earlier. The Portuguese led the way for
these mountains, to have communication with those of Mattogroso:
but laborious way, and only for ordinary people used to temper the
climate unhealthy.

The city of Cuiaba no wall, or artillery, or a fortification, for the wetlands of the Xarayes,
and the neglect of the Spanish total, judge fairly defended. Only the guard of Captain General,
and to defend the infidel Indians, maintain a company of soldiers paid to fifteen dollars per
month. From these various departments are. Twelve in two prisons to the frontier of the infidels: twelve
others in a war canoe serves to escort the boats that sail to St. Paul, and the remaining twenty,
are in Cuiaba, and they are all defending the city.

The number of people of all castes come to five thousand people, of which only a small number
are free, others, or slaves, or taken and treated as such, because Except for little more than
two hundred people who will find white people, the others, many are black and mulattoes, and mestizos
many Indians, who are treated by the Portuguese like slaves: for,
though only to the actual ordinance and to those of Payaguá other
nation can make slaves, but those parts are served any Portuguese
Indians who can catch, and keep them in slavery.

The Indians Cuyabá by more immediate the north are the Paresis and
Barbudos: they never give to the Portuguese, for either have to overcome,
or are to be killed in the fray.

On the north-east are the Bororo Indians: these have the simplicity
of it, caught India by the Portuguese some of his nation, then come
the immediate relatives to deliver and serve the Portuguese who has
her home.

To the south, after the flooding, are above the Mbayas that the passage
of the Paulist Tacuarí by the usually undertake.

* * *

§. V.

Cuyabá mines.

Throughout Brazil are the Portuguese name of mines to the gold mines. And so neither in Cuiaba,
or any other part of Brazil, which has come to my knowledge, mine
is working properly such.

But there are gold mines Cuyabá of 23 carats, and one of the gold mines are diamonds. But in
these years history, because diamonds are not losing their estimation, was banned by the King
of Portugal them out of Cuiaba. The sinks are located in various parts to falls or slopes of
the great Cordillera. Work in these laundries black slaves, black and gives each his master in
every week three pieces of gold grains, which is the only currency runs there. And you do the math
on buying and selling gold in octaves and each octave are two weights.

In some parts is gold in abundance, but you can not take advantage
of him there for missing water for washing.

The great distance from Cuiaba to the coast of Brazil is due to the gender of Europe thence
selling price up. A very ordinary shirt worth six dollars, or three octaves gold: a pair of
shoes, the same: a flask of wine and brandy, which in the Janeiro given for ten pesos worth in Cuyabá
sixties. And this proportion is sold to other genres. What goes up there at exorbitant prices,
and is the largest smuggling, if you're not at the office custom, is salt, which is carried in
Lisbon, and not permitted elsewhere.

* * *

§. VI.

Cuyabá temperament and fruits of the earth.

In Cuiaba and its vicinity is very hot and humid temperament, and consequentially enjoys all
the land of poor health.

The most common disease which is called the Portuguese of the beast: and they die a lot, because
they can not cure. The disease is extreme laxity in the hole with dysentery, and some fever.
The Portuguese, convinced that is bred in the flesh some bug or Guzan, causing those effects, intended
to force lemon juice and other citrus fruits, to kill the bug, and happens not infrequently ending with
the patient. The surgeon D. Pedro Gracian, who sailed with me on a boat through the Xarajes, very
smart man in his right, hearing the ensign of complaining Cuyabá that was between the people some
patients the bug, maybe something was informed that the bug, and
actually went to see the sick, and found that there was no such creature
or Guzan, and offered to cure them later.

The Portuguese insisted upon very effectively that there was no cure for this disease the lemon tart, which
maybe mixed with AGI, garlic and salt, but The surgeon showed them the error where they were,
then taking his account of the patient who had of more danger, he was given two days healthy,
without applying any of the sobredichas thing to kill the bug, have certainly had no such animal.

The
storm water that run through forests there cañafístula, Parages covered by the rods that fall from
the trees, bushes and other plants large purges, with excessive heat and the sleepless nights
caused by the multitude of mosquitoes are in my opinion the cause of that distemper and that disease.
The Spanish, who got into Xaurú, experiments at that temper like dysentery, with great relaxation
in the stomach, which had no the heat needed for digestion. In this accident happened to happiness,
taking before eating a bit of sweet wine: remedy needed in that country to avoid losing health.

The
downpours are common in the uplands, but the strongest, which are grown dramatically rivers,
beginning with the month of December. And grow both rivers, not finding enough opening out
the many waters that flow down into the plain of Xarayes, overflow flooding fields, and forming
by this time a big lake, but later, in the rain ceasing, is drained by the Paraguay river channel,
and are only the channels of the rivers, and some gaps, uncovering
all the rest of the plain, full of impenetrable marshes.

But all that space for flooding, there are some groves of trees he very high whose trunks are
flooded up to three and four yards high. And most fans watched in Xarayes, is that all land to be
flooded part of the year, they found ants (Of which there are innumerable crowd) way to keep
their nests. These are manufactured by strong clay on top of large trees, with such art is like
a furnace around one of the upper branches, and so well constructed that they can not offend rain
or wind. And so that these can not be ants going up or down in dry weather, have made of it a
strong mud-covered road or canal, descending to the foot of the tree, which channel the ants up
and down safely.

The fruits of the land of Cuiaba and its region are maize, rice, cassava
(in other parts of America called cazave), pineapples, bananas or
pacobas with many other fruit species typical of hot climates of America,
sugar, cane syrup and bees, which There are several species in the
mountains.

The wild rice is on the banks of the Rio Cuiaba and Porrudos.

No fucks wheat, no wine, no nuts in Europe. The lack of bread supplement Portuguese with farinha
do pao, or cazave. There are Cuyabá some cattle, but little. In D. Xaurú bought them Manuel
Flores some cows for people on boats, and paid twenty pesos each. Piglets and game are more
abundant.

* * *

§. VII.

Navigation made by Portuguese in Brazil to Cuiaba.

Each year the Portuguese traders go to Cuiaba Brazil with a large fleet of canoes gender-laden, and return
the product in gold and diamonds. The voyage is long and work: out of sixty or seventy canoes
of a harbor, which is four or five leagues San Pablo, a city well known in Brazil. Añembí down by
the river, to fall to the Paraná. On this sail downstream to the mouth of the Rio Pardo, which
comes from the west, and has the origin of some streams that flow down from the great chain
that extends from north to south, from near to Mount Cuyabá Itapuá in the Guarani missions. Up to Portuguese
canoes, until they can sail above the river Pardo: download here gender, and to spend two miles
of mountains, which are from the Rio Pardo to Carnap, vessels and cargo transported on the truck of
a Portuguez that it was filled in that range, and is interested in the transport of these
canoes. Before there was population there, spent their canoes on the shoulders of slaves who
have to paddle. Carried canoes to Carnap, the reloaded, and sail down the river to enter the Tacuarí.
For this sailing with some care, because their margins go up the Indians running Mbayas campaign,
which are enemies of the Portuguese, and not lose the opportunity to kill or captive lead
away from catching the fleet. Before arriving at the mouth of Tacuarí in Paraguay, as are the
Cuyabá war canoe, which, while usually Paulist arrive with their own, are waiting to defend
the Payaguá because canoes carrying of San Pablo is not enough for his defense, since each is only
a Portuguez white, or at most two, and the black rowers but they
do not carry weapons.

The Payaguá the usually expect a multitude of very light canoes, each of which are six or seven
men, and to avoid detection, they come with their canoes under the branches of trees, coming
to play in the water: and when they pass the Portuguese, the assault of a sudden and give them a
volley of arrows, throwing Portuguez always white, and lie on canoes can take, and collecting
gender and blacks, are lowered to the Assumption, where the Spanish
out of compassion to rescue the captives. To avoid the Portuguese
these assaults and damage Payaguá do in their fleets, have reinforced
the call of war canoe, for the escort from the Tacuarí to Cuiaba.

The
weapons of war canoe is a bronze Cañoncillo a rod or something else
long, which promptly fired several shots. And for this they bear in
their drawers well conditioned cartridges, made of canvas instead
camellote because in this way prevent is some fire in the canyon,
and say they are not so hot, although shoot then with that many shots
Cañoncillo.

But there must have been something very remarkable about these three; for when they appeared
the crowd broke out at first in loud shouts and outcries, which soon turned to acclamations
and welcome, though through it all shrill whistles and hisses were heard.

"Caesar's new mistress, the daughter of a gemcutter!" the Alexandrian muttered to his comrades.
That handsome boy is her brother, no doubt. He is said to be a mean sycophant, a spy paid by
Caesar."

"He?" said an older centurion, shaking his scarred head.  "Sooner would I believe that the
shouts of the populace were intended for the old woman and not for the young one."

"Then a sycophant he is and will remain," said the Alexandrian with a laugh.  "For, as a matter
of fact, it is the elder lady they are greeting, and, by Heracles, she deserves it!  She is
the wife of the high-priest of Serapis.  There are few poor in this city to whom she has not
done a kindness.  She is well able, no doubt, for her husband is the brother of Seleukus, and
her father, too, sat over his ears in gold."

"Yes, she is able," interrupted Martialis, with a tone of pride, as though it were some credit
to himself.  "But how many have even more, and keep their purse-strings tight!  I have known
her since she was a child, and she is the best of all that is good.  What does not the town
owe to her!  She risked her life to move Caesar's father to mercy toward the citizens, after
they had openly declared against him and in favor of his rival Pescennius Niger.  And she succeeded,
too."

"Why, then, are they whistling?" asked the older centurion.

"Because her companion is a spy," repeated the Alexandrian.  "And the girl--In Caesar's favor!
But, after all, which of you all would not gladly see his sister or his niece Caesar's light
of love?"

"Not I!" cried Martialis.  "But the man who speaks ill of that girl only does so because he
likes blue eyes best.  The maiden who comes in the lady Euryale's chariot is spotless, you
may swear."

"Nay, nay," said the younger Alexandrian soothingly. Do you accept ...?

Luna agreed, imposing their will on Stephen when he tried to protest saying their lack health.
Just do the surveillance for the duration of the summer.

In addition, there were two pesetas a day, almost more than it earned the Wooden Staff. Household
income going to bend, and it was not to lose such a good opportunity.

At night, Sagrario spoke to his uncle, admiring the energy that drove him to accept all work to avoid
being burdensome to the family.

Were in the cloister, supported by the balustrade. Below, the dark garden with its plumes black,
wavy, above, a summer sky, vanished by the warm mist that clouded
the brightness of the stars.

They were alone in the quadruple gallery. The lighted window of the closet chapel master drew
a red box on the roof opposite. The organ sounded with a melancholy slow, silent and passed
and repassed by the red box shadow musician, with her nervous movements, which, magnified by the reflection,
became grimaces grotesque.

The quiet and dark night wrapped in sweet caress Gabriel and Tabernacle. Descending from above
the mysterious freshness that seems to revive the spirit and larger memories. The church was
to them as a huge beast and sleeping, in whose lap were quiet and defense.

Gabriel talked about the past, to convince the young that anything worth its work in cathedral.
He had suffered greatly. There was no bitterness that had not tasted.

Had hungry, very hungry, in his travels around the world.

Do not know what was more painful, if martyrdom in the castle dungeon or dark days of despair
in the streets crowded populations, seeing the food and gold behind the glass of the windows,
surrounded feeling of luxury and turned his head dizzy with hunger. I could still tolerate their
misery when he walked alone through selfishness to ferocious civilization.

The horrible times had been wandering to share their poverty with Lucy, the sweet and melancholy
companion.

And Gabriel talked about the English as a dead sister.

- The'd loved, Sagrario, to meet her. It was the strong woman, courageous companion, together
to me by the community of thoughts than by the attraction of the flesh. I loved her from I
met her. I do not know if what we felt was love. Poets have lied so much about love have misrepresented
thereby, exaggerating, that certainly no longer know what it is.

And the girl talked of love, explaining it according to their beliefs.

It was an "elective affinity"; Goethe had defined it, overcoming a wise poet, taking the phrase
in chemistry that gives this name to the tendency of two bodies to merge forming a new distinct
product. Two people among whom there is no affinity could be found, by false laws of life continuous
contact, however, empathize, not confused. This was the most of the time between individuals of
different sex who inhabit the earth. Rub together, but not interpenetrate and overlap. There is
sentimentality passenger, carnal whim, never love. Lucy, the sick woman was being akin to theirs:
they saw and loved. Commiseration by human misery, hatred, inequality and injustice, devotion
to the humble and the unfortunate, were equal in both. Not only were joined at the heart: their
brains kissing.

It was ugly, ugly with a sweet and sad that Luna seemed to the supreme ideal of beauty in a world
of losers and victims. It was the image of women raised in the Village slums of the working
class neighborhoods in large cities: anemic by the noxious air of den where he was born, poor
feeding and poor, with the body emaciated, paralyzed in its development thanks to the rough feminine
work in the middle childhood. Lips, that great ladies were painted red, she had violet. All
beautiful of his face were the eyes, the windows of tears, enlarged by the last cold nights
on the street, by the horror of the scenes witnessed in childhood, when his father got drunk, brutalizing
the desire of the worker who wants to forget, then to imagine a paradise
in the tavern, rage against the misery of his home and family clubbing.

-
It was like you are all females born down, Sagrario.

Your beauty takes a moment holds only in the very outbreak of the youth. The female can not
be poor beautiful if not flee from his class. Hunger and work are enemies of beauty. The work
daily makes it lose its freshness and strength. Motherhood in such misery will absorb up bone marrow.
And when all was done, he returns home, sweeps, washes and eat like a mummy with the smoky stove
in the kitchen. I loved Lucy for this, because was consumed and exhausted by the operation,
because the Virgin was working in all its melancholy decline, born beautiful and spoiled by social
injustice.

She remembered the cold and unyielding anger that little woman, who spoke quietly the ultimate
revenge of the fallen, the revenge for centuries of oppression. Showed himself more radical
and ferocious in their illusions Gabriel, and he praised his daring
as a propagandist, their dangerous trips to the big cities, police
on guard, leading arm old hat box full of paper that could lead to
jail.

Was The spirited miss the evangelical propaganda travels the globe spreading cold Bibles smile
without fear of ridicule of the civilized and the savage brutality, but As Lucy excitations
were distributed to revolt, and not looking to happy, but the desperate, in factories and in
the suburbs become infected. The two were hungry; viéronse separated by the prosecution and
imprisonment, but returned to join, continuing the novel would, until the consumption poverty
and end it.

Gabriel cried recalling his last interviews in a hospital in Italy, clean and neat, icy environment
with that of charity.

Since it was not her husband could only visit twice per week. Appeared ragged and head down,
and saw her in a chair, becoming paler and skinny, with a transparent wax and strangely enlarged
eyes. He knew a little all, and is not hiding the seriousness of his illness. Expected quiet
death. "Bring me roses' Gabriel said, smiling as if at the last moment of his life would commune
with natural beauty of a world disfigured and darkened by men.

And the companion remained dry bread, implore the help of comrades less poor than himself,
slept in the open, for take in the immediate visit a bouquet of flowers.

- Died, Sagrario - moaned Luna -.

I do not know where she was buried: perhaps serve for a lesson in the anatomy room, fell into
the grave, as those soldiers whose heroism is in the dark. But I still see, I have followed all
my misfortunes, it seems now resurfaces in you .-- But, uncle - said softly Tabernacle, moved by
the story, I can not do what she, I am a miserable, worthless and will.

- Call me Gabriel - "Luna said with vehemence -. You are my old Lucy, who once again comes to my
way. Know it all at once, long ago examined my feelings, I analyze my will and I have one certainty:
I love you, Sagrario.

She made a surprise move, away from him.

- Do not separate yourself, do not fear me. Neither I am a man, or you're already a woman. You
have suffered greatly, you say goodbye to the joys of the earth, you're strong by misfortune
and you can watch face to face the truth.

We are two castaways of life: we can only wait and die on the island that serves as a refuge.
We are undone, torn and wraps: death incubated our guts, we are fallen and reports rags having been
through the gears of an absurd society. For this I want, because you are like me in disgrace.
Affinity elective unites us.

Poor Lucy was weakened by the farm workers, poisoned from birth by poverty, you're the daughter
of the people outside the home attracted by the charm welfare of the privileged, seduced, not by
love but by the whim of the happy, the maid brought in sacrifice to the Minotaur, whose remains are
dumped after a manure pit. I love you, Sagrario; are two fugitives from society that must make
their way together, to me I hate to dangerous to despise thee unclean: the misfortune drives
us. Our bodies are poisoned, we carry the wounds of the vanquished, but before dying rejoice our
lives with love, ask roses, like poor Lucy.

And shaking hands with the girl, who, stunned by the words of Gabriel, not knowing what say and
cried softly. Up on the top floor of the Claverias, still playing the organ teacher. Luna knew that
music. It was the last cry of Beethoven, the 'need' who sang the genius to death with a melancholy
that caused chills.

- I love you, Sagrario - continued Gabriel -. Since I saw you go home, braving the value resigned
from the victim's odious curiosity of the people, I became interested
in you.

I spent weeks and months with your machine to see how it worked. I studied, I read you. You are
a simple; Your soul has the folds and recesses of these things the
complicated and tortuous wickedness of civilization.

Guessed day by day in your look fresh in the care with which I listened, the gratitude for what
little I did in your favor. Remembered the black period of your life, slavery of the flesh of men
crazed by the heat bestial sex, and to me always sweet to you, protecting you against the wrath
of the father and curiosity people, your appreciation has been growing and growing, and today
I love, Sagrario. Yourself you do not realize it, do not know to explain it, but your being for the
mine as the bodies I was talking about chemicals. I love you too, as once loved to poor Lucy.
The unique and eternal love is a lying invention of poets, which often mock the facts. Several people
can love with equal enthusiasm. It is essential that there affinity. You, who once loved a
man to madness, what do you do for me? Have I not deceived?

Do I really want ...?

Sagrario was still crying, with her head bowed, as if he dared to look at Luna. He's urged sweetly.
Gabriel had to call, talk to you, are not these fellow sufferers?

-
I have murmured the young shame ...-- -.

Troubles me so much joy .... Yes, I want you ... no ... I love you, Gabriel. I never would have
confessed, had died before revealing this secret. Who am I to love me? I have not I look in the
mirror, remembering not to mourn my lost youth .... And then, my story, my horrible story. How could
figure out that you ... I say that you, would read as clearly in my mind? See how I tremble,
it is printing, not yet happened, the shock of seeing discovered
my secret.

A man like you down to me, ugly and ill forever ...! No, I do not speak the other. I forgot
a long time; How can I remember now that I do the charity of your affection? No, Gabriel, you are
the larger and more good men. I look like a god.

They were silent a long while, holding hands, looking at the dark, murmuring garden. Up went
the lament of genius to life is extinguished.

Sagrario relied on Gabriel as if he lacks the forces, and fearful to happiness I would like to
take refuge in him.

- How late you know! - Said quietly -. Wanted love in his youth, being only beautiful and healthy
for you, have the beauty and the charms of a lady to sweeten the rest of your life. My thanks
nothing to offer. I'm horrible: I carry in my heart death, which slowly consumes me. The poison
is touching me .... Gabriel, why you notice me?

- Because I am a sick, miserable as you.

Our misery is the loving affinity .... Also, I've never loved like other men. I've seen in my
travels the most beautiful women the world, without feeling the slightest frisson of desire.
I'm not a loving temperament. My further adventures in Paris, when young, always left with a
feeling of disgust. The I love the unfortunate master, to the point of dulling my senses. I'm
like the drunk and the player, who, obsessed with his hobby, nothing feel to the woman. The
scholar, immersed in books, experiences very weak sex calls. My passion is pity for the disinherited,
the hatred of injustice and inequality. I absorbed so force, thereby overwhelms my ability,
I've never had time to think about love. The female does not seduce me. I love when I see women
unhappy and sad. Ugliness impresses me more than beauty, because I talk about the social outrages
gives me the bitterness unjust, the only wine which revives my soul. I loved Lucy because she was
unhappy and was to die, I love you, Tabernacle, for thou art in his youth, an outcast of life,
which one may want. My love for you to brighten up what remains in
existence.

Sagrario was pressed against his chest Gabriel.

- How good you are - sigh -. What a beautiful soul!

- As is yours, poor tabernacle. Your life has been a hoax. You go to sell your body hunger and despair,
as are the daughters of the poor. You thought finding bread false simulacra of love, as they
do every day on earth hundreds of thousands daughters of the proletariat. Everything is for the privileged
of the world: the arms of the father and sex of the child. And when the arms are weak or the
body loses its youthful charms, is cast aside and replaced. The market is rich .... I love you for
your misfortune. Maybe see you young and beautiful, as in other times you looked, there was no
sense slightest attraction. Beauty is a barrier to the feeling. The Tabernacle of another era
with her dreams of being a great lady, flattered by the words of
handsome young men dressed colors like bright birds, there is no fixed
at a homeless aged by poverty, ugly and sick.

We know because we are unhappy. The misery we can see our souls in the middle that we would never
have encountered.

- It's true - she murmured, resting his head on Gabriel's shoulder -. I love misery that allows
us to know.

- You'll be my partner - continued Luna with sweet intonation -.

Our lives will march together until death breaks her embrace. I will defend you, but of little
use the help of a ill pursued by men. You sweeten my life with your love. We will love as those
saints of the Church who burst into raptures sweet words and shocking, without dare the slightest
touch of the flesh.

Love is the instinct of conservation of the species but ours will be incomplete, not hate, like
the saints, the laws of Nature but because the struggles of life would have been mortally wounded.
I am not a man diseases of poverty and the ferocity of my peers have
broken my body.

Just if I sustain my life and I can give it to another being. You carry the poison in the blood
of a civilization flawed. A child of thy bowels would be a miserable freak with decayed bones
and veins full of rot. Not raise such monsters with physical misery of the downtrodden. Let the
privileged promote its decline with the offspring of his vices.

His arm around the girl's waist and lifted his other hand to his head,
fixing his eyes Sagrario in which shone the light of the stars with
the glow of the aqueous tears.

- We will be two souls, two thoughts
to be cherished without a trace of his passion, pure as the poets
ever imagined.

This night we confess each other that our souls are opened to each
other, is the night of our wedding ... Kiss me companion of my life!

And in the silence of the cloister they kissed silently, at length,
as if their mouths wept together the misery of their past and the
brevity of love around which was about death.

Above, the lament of Beethoven continued to develop its inflections
painful, spreading the bowels of the cathedral asleep.

Gabriel stood holding tabernacle was put back as faint with emotion.

He looked at the area with a priestly gravity as he spoke softly into the ear of the young:

- Our life is like one of those abandoned gardens, where the fallen
trees and branches sprout new foliage dry .... Companion, let us love.

Do that on our misery arising pariahs spring. Spring will be a sad and fruitless, but will have
flowers. The sun out for those who are high, for us, sweet companion, is far, but in the black
bottom of our well, let us embrace, irgamos head, and since we do not revived its heat, let us adore
him as a distant star.

In early July, Gabriel took the night watch of the cathedral.

Down to the dusk to the cloister, and in front of another guard uníase Muffin, a sickly looking
man, who was coughing so much like Luna and did not leave the blanket in summer.

- Well, the bulls! - Ringer said, shaking his keys.

And after the two men entered the temple, closed the doors on the outside, away.

Corno the days were long, there were still two hours of light when the guards entered the cathedral.

-
The whole church is for us, mate - said the other guard.

And as a man accustomed to look stunning Cathedral abandoned, it would
get in the sacristy as if it were his home, opening the basket dinner
on the drawers and aligning edible between candles and crucifixes.

Gabriel wandered through the temple. After several days of confinement had not been damped it
gave him the impression that he first saw the lonely church closed. His steps resounded on
the pavement, cut at intervals by the tombs of prelates and nobles of other centuries. The dead
silence of the temple was altered with strange sounds and scratches mysterious. The first day,
Gabriel turned his head several times with alarm, believing that steps sounded behind him.
Outside the temple still sunny. Shone the color wheels of the great
cover rosette like a bowl of bright flowers. Down between the pillars,
the light seemed to flatten with the shade. Descended bats, and their
wings were ground down holes vaulting. Screamed between the columns,
as if hovering in a forest of stone. In its blind impulse, clashed
with the strings of lights or did wobble the red Capelos dusty and
frayed tassel that hung high above the tombs of the cardinals.

Gabriel
made his rounds throughout the church. Pushing the gates of the altar
to convince they were tightly closed, he played the Mozarabic chapel
doors and Kings, missed out of the Chapter House and stopped at the
Virgen del Sagrario. Through grille lamps were burning, and high the
image loaded with jewels. After This test was in search of his comrade,
and both sat on the cruise, on the steps of choir or altar. From there
he covered the entire temple of a glance.

The two guards began to
pull down their caps.

- You will be recommended - Gabriel told the
partner - that is respectful to the temple: if you want to take a
cigarette will go to the gallery of the Locum, that if you want to
get into dinner the sacristy. The same was told to me when I entered
the cathedral service. Remarks people who are left to sleep in their
homes, very quiet. The important thing here is to monitor much, and
out of this, everyone can do what he pleases for the night .... At
this time God and the saints sleep. Something has to rest after a
day on hearing prayers and hymns, receiving ardiéndoles incense and
candles near the face. We we watch her sleep, and what the devil!,
not disrespect them if we allow some freedom.

It was now possible to see the beauty of the women and the costliness of their attire; not
till now had the precious stones shown their flashing and changeful radiance.  How many gardens
and lotus-pools must have been plundered, how many laurel-groves stripped to supply the wreaths
which graced every head in the upper rows!  And to look round those ranks and note the handsome
raiment in which men and women alike were arrayed, suggested a belief that all the inhabitants
of Alexandria must be rich. Wherever the eye turned, something beautiful or magnificent was
to be seen; and the numerous delightful pictures which crowded on the sight were framed with
massive garlands of lotos and mallow, lilies and roses, olive and laurel, tall papyrus and
waving palm, branches of pine and willow-here hanging m thick festoons, there twining round
the columns or wreathing the pilasters and backs of seats.

Of all the couples in this incomparable amphitheatre one alone neither saw nor heard all that
was going on.  Scarcely had the darkness given way to light, when Melissa's eyes met those
of her lover, and recognition was immediately followed by a swift inquiry and reply which filled
the unhappy pair with revived hopes.  Melissa's eyes told Diodoros that she loved him and him
alone, and she read in his that he could never give her up.  Still, his also expressed the
doubt and anxiety of his tortured soul, and sent question after question across to Melissa.

And she understood the mute appeal as well as though looks were words. Without heeding the
curious crowd about her, or considering the danger of such audacity, she took up her nosegay
and waved it toward him as though to refresh him with its fragrance, and then pressed a hasty
kiss on the finest of the half-opened buds.  His responsive gesture showed that she had been
understood, for her lover's expressive eyes beamed with unqualified love and gratitude.  Never,
she thought, had he gazed more fervently in her face, and again she bent over the bunch of roses.

But even in the midst of her newly found happiness her cheeks tingled with maidenly modesty
at her own boldness.  Too happy to regret what she had done, but still anxious lest the friend
whose opinion was all in all to her should disapprove, she forgot time and place, and, laying
her head on Euryale's shoulder, looked up at her in inquiry with her large eyes as though imploring
forgiveness.  The matron understood, for she had followed the girl's glance and felt what it
was that stirred her heart; and, little thinking of the joy she was giving to a third person,
she clasped her closely and kissed her on the temple, regardless of the people about them.

At this Diodoros felt as though he had won the prize in a race; and his friend Timon, whose
artistic eye was feasting on the magnificent scene, started at the vehement and ardent pressure
which Diodoros bestowed on his hand.

What had come over the poor, suffering youth whom he, Timon, had escorted to the Circus out
of sheer compassion?  His eyes sparkled, and he held his head as high as ever.  What was the
meaning of his declaring that everything would go well with him now?  But it was in vain that
he questioned the youth, for Diodoros could not reveal, even to his best friend, what it was
that made him happy.  It was enough for him to know that Melissa loved him, and that the woman
to whom he looked up with enthusiastic reverence esteemed her as highly as ever.  And now,
for the first time, he began to feel ashamed of his doubts of Melissa.  How could he, who had
known her from childhood, have believed of her anything so base and foul?  It must be some
strong compulsion which bound her to Caesar, and she could never have looked at him thus unless
she had some scheme--in which, perhaps, the lady Euryale meant to abet her--for escaping her
imperial suitor before it was too late.  Yes, it must be so; and the oftener he gazed at her
the more convinced he felt.

Now he rejoiced in the blaze of light about him, for it showed him his beloved.  The words
which Euryale had whispered in her ear must have been an admonition to prudence, for she only
rarely bestowed on him a loving glance, and he acknowledged that the mute but eager exchange
of signals would have been fraught with danger for both of them.

The first sudden illumination had revealed too many things to distract the attention of the
spectators, including Caesar's, for their proceedings to be observed.  Now curiosity was to
some extent satisfied, and even Diodoros felt that reserve was imperative.

Caracalla had not yet shown himself to the people.  A golden screen, in which there were holes
for him to look through without being seen, hid him from public gaze; still Diodoros could
recognize those who were admitted to his presence.  First came the givers of the entertainment;
then the Parthian envoys, and some delegates from the municipal authorities of the town.  Finally,
Seleukus presented the wives of the magnates who had shared with him the cost of this display,
and among these, all magnificently dressed, the lady Berenike shone supreme by the pride of
her demeanor and the startling magnificence of her attire.  As her large eyes met those of
Caesar with a flash of defiance, he frowned, and remarked satirically:

"It seems to be the custom here to mourn in much splendor!"

But Berenike promptly replied:

"It has nothing to do with mourning.  It is in honor of the sovereign who commanded the presence
of the mourner at the Circus."

Diodoros could not see the flame of rage in, Caesar's threatening eye, nor hear his reply to
the audacious matron:

"This is a misapprehension of how to do me honor, but an opportunity will occur for teaching
the Alexandrians better."

Even across the amphitheatre the youth could see the sudden flush and pallor of the lady's
haughty face; and immediately after, Macrinus, the praetorian prefect, approached Caracalla
with the master of the games, the superintendent of the school of gladiators.

At the same time Diodoros heard his next neighbor, a member of the city senate, say:

"How quietly it is going off!  My proposal that Caesar should come in to a dim light, so as
to keep him and his unpopular favorites out of sight for a while, has worked capitally.  Who
could the mob whistle at, so long as they could not see one from another?  Now they are too
much delighted to be uproarious.  Caesar's bride, of all others, has reason to thank me. And
she reminds me of the Persian warriors who, before going into battle, bound cats to their bucklers
because they knew that the Egyptian foe would not shoot at them so long as the sacred beasts
were exposed to being hit by his arrows."

"What do you mean by that?" asked another, and received the brisk reply:

"The lady Euryale is the cat who protects the damsel.  Out of respect for her, and for fear
of hurting her, too, her companion has hitherto been spared even by those fellows up there."

And he pointed to a party of "Greens" who were laying their heads together in one of the topmost
tiers.  But his friend replied:

"Something besides that keeps them within bounds.  The three beardless fellows just behind
them belong to the city watch, who are scattered through the general mass like raisins in doughcakes."

"That is very judicious," replied the senator.

"We might otherwise have had to quit the Circus a great deal quicker than we came in.  We shall
hardly get home with dry garments as it is.  Look how the lights up there are flaring; you
can hear the lashing of the storm, and such flashes are not produced by machinery.  Zeus is
preparing his bolts, and if the storm bursts--"

Here his discourse was interrupted by the sound of trumpets, mingling with the roar of distant
thunder following a vivid flash.  The procession now began, which was the preliminary to every
such performance.

The statues of the gods had, before Caesar's arrival, been placed on the pedestals erected
for them to prevent any risk of a demonstration at the appearance of the deified emperors.
The priests now first marched solemnly round these statues, and Timotheus poured a libation
on the sand to Serapis, while the priest of Alexandria did the same to the tutelary hero of
the town.  Then the masters of the games, the gladiators, and beast-fighters came out, who
were to make proof of their skill.  As the priests approached Caesar's dais, Caracalla came
forward and greeted the spectators, thus showing himself for the first time.

While he was still sitting behind the screen, he had sent for Melissa, who had obeyed the command,
under the protection of Euryale, and he had spoken to her graciously.  He now took no further
notice of her, of her father, or her brother, and by his orders their places had been separated
by some little distance from his.  By the advice of Timotheus he would not let her be seen
at his side till the stars had once more been consulted, and he would then conduct Melissa
to the Circus as his wife- the day after to-morrow, perhaps.  He thanked the matron for having
escorted Melissa, and added, with a braggart air of virtue, that the world should see that
he, too, could sacrifice the most ardent wish of his heart to moral propriety.

The elephant torch-bearers had greatly delighted him, and in the expectation of seeing Melissa
again, and of a public recognition that he had won the fairest maid there, he had come into
the Circus in the best spirits.  He still wore his natural expression; yet now and then his
brow was knit, for he was haunted by the eyes of Seleukus's wife.  The haughty woman--"that
bedizened Niobe" he had contemptuously called her in speaking to Macrinus--had appeared to
him as an avenging goddess; strangely enough, every time he thought of her, he remembered,
too, the consul Vindex and his nephew, whose execution Melissa's intercession had only hastened,
and he was vexed now that he had not lent an ear to her entreaties.  The fact that the name
Vindex signified an avenger disturbed him greatly, and he could no more get it out of his mind
than the image of the "Niobe" with her ominous dark eyes.

He would see her no more; and in this he was helped by the gladiators, for they now approached
him, and their frantic enthusiasm kept him for some time from all other thoughts.  While they
flourished their weapons- some the sword and buckler, and others the not less terrible net
and harpoon--the time-honored cry rose from their husky throats in eager acclamation: "Hail,
Caesar!  those about to die salute thee!"  Then, in rows of ten men each, they crossed the
arena at a rapid pace.

Between the first and second group one man swaggered past alone, as though he were something
apart, and he strutted and rolled as he walked with pompous self-importance.  It was his prescriptive
right, and in his broad, coarse features, with a snub nose, thick lips, and white, flashing
teeth like those of a beast of prey, it was easy to see that the adversary would fare but ill
who should try to humble him.  And yet he was not tall; but on his deep chest, his enormous
square shoulders, and short, bandy legs, the muscles stood out like elastic balls, showing
the connoisseur that in strength he was a giant.  A loin-cloth was all he wore, for he was
proud of the many scars which gleamed red and white on his fair skin.  He had pushed back his
little bronze helmet, so that the terrible aspect of the left side of his face might not be
lost on the populace.  While he was engaged in fighting three panthers and a lion, the lion
had torn out his eye and with it part of his cheek.  His name was Tarautas, and he was known
throughout the empire as the most brutal of gladiators, for he had also earned the further
privilege of never fighting but for life or death, and never under any circumstances either
granting or asking quarter.  Where he was engaged corpses strewed the plain.

Caesar knew that he himself had been nicknamed Tarautas after this man, and he was not ill
pleased; for, above all things, he aimed at being thought strong and terrible, and this the
gladiator was without a peer in his own rank of life.  They knew each other: Tarautas had received
many a gift from his imperial patron after hard-won victories in which his blood had flowed.
And now, as the scarred veteran, who, puffed up with conceit, walked singly and apart in the
long train of gladiators, cast a roving and haughty glance on the ranks of spectators, he was
filled out of due time with the longing to center all eyes on himself, the one aim of his so
frequently risking his life in these games.  His chest swelled, he braced up the tension of
his supple sinews, and as he passed the imperial seats he whirled his short sword round his
head, describing a circle in the air, with such skill and such persistent rapidity, that it
appeared like a disk of flashing steel.  At the same time his harsh, powerful voice bellowed
out, "Hail, Caesar!" sounding above the shouts of his comrades like the roar of a lion; and
Caracalla, who had not yet vouchsafed a friendly word or pleasant look to any Alexandrian,
waved his hand graciously again and again to this audacious monster, whose strength and skill
delighted him.

This was the instant for which the "Greens" in the third tier were waiting.  No one could prohibit
their applauding the man whom Caesar himself approved, so they forthwith began shouting "Tarautas!"
with all their might.  They knew that this would suggest the comparison between Caesar and
the sanguinary wretch whose name had been applied to him, and all who were eager to give expression
to their vexation or dissatisfaction took the hint and joined in the outcry.  Thus in a moment
the whole amphitheatre was ringing with the name of "Tarautas!"

At first it rose here and there; but soon, no one knew how, the whole crowd in the upper ranks
joined in one huge chorus, giving free vent to their long-suppressed irritation with childish
and increasing uproar, shouting the word with steady reiteration and a sort of involuntary
rhythm.  Before long it sounded as though the multitude must have practiced the mad chant which
swelled to a perfect roar.

"Tarau-Tarau-Tarautas!" and, as is always the case when a breach has been made in the dam,
one after another joined in, with here the shrill whistle of a reed pipe and there the clatter
of a rattle.  Mingling with these were the angry outcries of those whom the lictors or guardians
of the peace had laid hands on, or their indignant companions; and the thunder outside rolled
a solemn accompaniment to the mutinous tumult within.

Caesar's scowling brow showed that a storm threatened in that quarter also; and no sooner had
he discerned the aim of the crowd than, foaming with rage, he commanded Macrinus to restore order.

Then, above the chaos of voices, trumpet-calls were sounded.  The masters of the games perceived
that, if only they could succeed in riveting the attention of the mob by some exciting or interesting
scene, that would surely silence the demonstration which was threatening ruin to the whole
community; so the order was at once given to begin the performance with the most important
and effective scene with which it had been intended that the whole should conclude.

The spectacle was to represent a camp of the Alemanni, surprised and seized by Roman warriors.
In this there was a covert compliment to Caesar, who, after a doubtful victory over that valiant
people, had assumed the name of Alemannicus.  Part of the gladiators, clothed in skins, represented
the barbarians, and wore long flowing wigs of red or yellow hair; others played the part of
Roman troops, who were to conquer them.  The Alemanni were all condemned criminals, who were
allowed no armor, and only blunt swords wherewith to defend themselves.  But life and freedom
were promised to the women if, after the camp was seized, they wounded themselves with the
sharp knives with which each one was provided, at least deeply enough to draw blood.  And any
who succeeded in feigning death really deceptively were to earn a special reward.  Among the
Germans there were, too, a few gladiators of exceptional stature, armed with sharp weapons,
so as to defer the decision for a while.

In a few minutes, and under the eyes of the spectators, carts, cattle, and horses were placed
together in a camp, and surrounded by a wall of tree trunks, stones, and shields. In the 24 degrees and 23 minutes between, on the east, the Cuarepotí: in 24 degrees
and 29 minutes, the Ibobi. But 50 minutes down on the same level, enters the same side of the
Tobatí in an arm of Paraguay, whose entrance into the tip of the island is further south (and
the first tip when it comes up in the arm), two stones who come to the flower water, which
should be departing ships, or to take course at the river wider, leaving the eastern part of
the island. In the Tobatí fit, before his fall in Paraguay, the river Capiatá.

In the 24 degrees 56 minutes will go to Paraguay, in the west, the river Mboicaé. In 24 and
58, little above the fort of Arecutacuá, enter through the east the Peribebuí, and more down,
in 25 gr. and a minute, go on the same side the river Salado. Deep down, almost at the same
height, enter the western margin Piraí river.

The city of Assumption is 25 gr. 17 min. 15 seconds of latitude, 320 gr. 12 min. of length, according
to some markers. Others found 25, 16, latitude 320, 10 in length. Deep down is via three mouths,
the West Bank, the famous river Pilcomayo, which brings its waters cerranias Potosi, and runs
through the Chaco. In the 25 gr. 32 min. Paraguay makes a narrow entrance, taking only a rifle
shot from a river to another, and is At this place the fort called La Angostura. The Tebicuari
enter Paraguay by the east, in 26 gr. 35 min. Down by the river boats of Our Lady of Santa Fe
and Rosa.

The Rio Grande, or Bermejo enters the Paraguay by the West in 26 gr. 54 min., And her mouth
is far the city of Corrientes eleven leagues from the air, the river is 17, or 18. Comes Bermejo
of the mountains that are between Salta and Tarija: through much of the Chaco: the color of
its waters is something vermilion. In coming together with Paraguay, infects waters it, so
that the water is unhealthy until concurs in Corrientes Parana. They join the rivers Paraná and
Paraguay at the forefront of this city, which is located on the eastern margin, at 27 degrees
and 27 minutes latitude, 319 and 55 minutes in length. Seven Flames of Corrientes city, because
the land where the city is, for seven stone points, leaving the river, where the current is stronger
Paraná. From here loses the name Paraguay, because the Paraná, but mighty as yours keeps up
near Buenos Aires, where, along with Uruguay, flows into the sea with the name of Rio de la Plata,
so named because brought from here some articles of silver and gold the first conquerors of
Paraguay, which had brought jewelry Indians in Paraguay first entry made to the people of Peru
with Alejo Garcia and his colleagues, according to is written in
Argentina Rui Diaz de Guzman. From the topmost
row of places, on every side of the amphitheatre, rang out the following lines, which but a
moment before no one had ever heard:

    "Death to the living, to pay for burying those that are dead;
     Since, what the taxes have spared, soldiers have ruthlessly seized."

And the words certainly came from the heart; of the people, for they seemed never weary of
repeating them; and it was not till a tremendous clap of thunder shook the very walls that
several were silent and looked up with increasing alarm.  The moment's pause was seized on
to begin the fight.  Caesar bit his lip in powerless fury, and his hatred of the towns-people,
who had thus so plainly given him to understand their sentiments, was rising from one minute
to the next.  He felt it a real misfortune that he was unable to punish on the spot the insult
thus offered him; swelling with rage, he remembered a speech made by Caligula, and wished the
town had but one head, that he might sever it from the body.  The blood throbbed so fiercely
in his temples, and there was such a singing in his ears, that for some little time he neither
saw nor heard what was going on.  This terrible agitation might cost him yet some hours of
great suffering.  But he need no longer dread them so much; for there sat the living remedy
which he believed he had secured by the strongest possible ties.

How fair she was!  And, as he looked round once more at Melissa, he observed that her eye was
turned on him with evident anxiety.  At this a light seemed to dawn in his clouded soul, and
he was once more conscious of the love which had blossomed in his heart.  But it would never
do to make her who had wrought the miracle so soon the confidante of his hatred.  He had seen
her angry, had seen her weep, and had seen her smile; and within the next few days, which were
to make him a happy man instead of a tortured victim, he longed only to see her great eyes
sparkle and her lips overflow with words of love, joy, and gratitude. His score with the Alexandrians
must be settled later, and it was in his power to make them atone with their blood and bitterly
rue the deeds of this night.

He passed his hand over his furrowed brow, as though to wake himself from a bad dream; nay,
he even found a smile when next his eyes met hers; and those spectators to whom his aspect
seemed more absorbing than the horrible slaughter in the arena, looked at each other in amazement,
for the indifference or the dissimulation, whichever it might be, with which Caesar regarded
this unequaled scene of bloodshed, seemed to them quite incredible.

Never, since his very first visit to a circus, had Caracalla left unnoticed for so long a time
the progress of such a battle as this. However, nothing very remarkable had so far occurred,
for the actual seizure of the camp had but just begun with the massacre of the Alemanni and
the suicide of the women.

At this moment the gladiator Tarautas, as nimble as a cat and as bloodthirsty as a hungry wolf,
sprang on to one of the enemy's piled-up wagons, and a tall swordsman, with a bear-skin over
his shoulder, and long, reddish-gold hair, flew to meet him. If you had studied astronomy would know that.

- Say, rather, that if I had studied biblical history, "said Meneses.

- The story is, Pancho noted that without a thorough study one thing and another, I know that
the case involved both are not you that I fixed the flat.

- To all
these gentlemen what lesson we have today?

No class I attended on Friday, or I opened the book at this time.

- Govantes said today the title for the third, which concerns the right of the people, said Diego.
Open the book and see.

- For that matter I have not even greeted, said Leonardo.

Just know that according to native law, there are people and there
are things that many of these, although they speak and think, they
have the same those rights.

For example, Pancho, and similes that you like, you in the eyes of Are not right person, but
something.

- I do not see the similarity, I am not a slave, which is something he considers Roman law.

- Ya. There are a slave, but one of your parents and it was certainly well worth it. Your hair
is at least suspect.

- Blessed are you that you have flechudo as the Indians. If we examine, however, our respective
family trees, we find that those who pass by naive among us, Swingers are at least [15].

- Wheezes wound, man. C'mon, it's no sin to tie the mule behind the door. My father is Spanish and
has no mule, my mother does not answer is Creole which is of pure blood.

- Is your father for being Spanish, not without suspicion of having
mixed blood, I suppose that is Andalusian Seville and came to America's
first black slaves. Neither the Arabs, who dominated in Andalusia
than in other parts of Spain, were pure Caucasian race, but African.
Moreover, it was common there, then the union of white and blacks,
according to the testimony of Cervantes and other contemporary writers.

-
This historic rasguito, Don Pancho, worth a Potosí.  Every muscle of his powerful frame gained more rigid tension
at the thought, and when he was presently hit by the sword of his hitherto unconquered foe,
and felt the warm blood flow over his breast and left arm, he collected all his strength. This lower part of this a bunch of great mountains. At the south
side of the river are too many hills and narrow with strong currents, with peñasquería the sides
of the river, and called this step Itapucú-wolf. Is at 22 degrees and 10 minutes.


Caracalla started as though he himself had been the injured victim, and watched, but in vain,
to see the supple Tarautas, who had escaped such perils before now, free himself from the weight
of the German's body. Who provides the luxury
you live? Who works for you to enjoy and have fun?

- The work, indeed, he is saving industry and, no doubt not, but would
now when so much money if you'd been married a poor woman?  Agitated
by distressing fears, he rose to speak first to one and then to another of his suite, only
to drop on his seat again and glance once more at the butchery below.  He was fully persuaded
that his own end must be near, if indeed Tarautas were dead. The ensign is in the canoe for sun protection and rain
His chariot very good with curtains and seats. The soldiers are also in canoe through the canopy
off for safekeeping. The rowers are to the fore and aft, and one with the blade serves as a helmsman.


He shuddered!--the image of Vindex and his nephew rose once more before his mind's eye; at
the same moment, however, Theocritus hailed him with the exclamation:

"That fellow, Tarautas, is not a man at all!  I should call him an eel if he were not so broad
shouldered. A bias has a room in the northernmost part of the river, and its principal chief
called Quatí. The other is usually more frequently in the southern part, in the proximity of the
Assumption. The principal chief of this is called Ipar. To
this end undertook the study of mathematics, which was fast and amazing progress, and when his
age allowed him to realize his plans, he sailed to make your learning Nautical. All his ambition was
limited then to acquire the skills needed to serve as pilot.

In one of these journeys he made friends with a priest of the Society of Jesus, was going to
India to take part in the evangelical work of his brothers.

Men were flying, women screaming and sobbing, and the heralds loudly proclaimed that the performance
was suspended, and would be resumed on the next day but one.

