Aaron Dunn's work--the commencement of his work--lay at some distance from the Springs, and
he left every morning with a lot of workmen by an early train--almost before daylight.  And
every morning, cold and wintry as the mornings were, the widow got him his breakfast with her
own hands.  She took his dollars and would not leave him altogether to the awkward mercies
of Kate O'Brien; nor would she trust her girls to attend upon the young man.  Hetta she might
have trusted; but then Susan would have asked why she was spared her share of such hardship.

In the evening, leaving his work when it was dark, Aaron always returned, and then the evening
was passed together.  But they were passed with the most demure propriety.  These women would
make the tea, cut the bread and butter, and then sew; while Aaron Dunn, when the cups were
removed, would always go to his plans and drawings.

On Sundays they were more together; but even on this day there was cause of separation, for
Aaron went to the Episcopalian church, rather to the disgust of Hetta.  In the afternoon, however,
they were together; and then Phineas Beckard came in to tea on Sundays, and he and Aaron got
to talking on religion; and though they disagreed pretty much, and would not give an inch either
one or the other, nevertheless the minister told the widow, and Hetta too probably, that the
lad had good stuff in him, though he was so stiff-necked.

"But he should be more modest in talking on such matters with a minister," said Hetta.

The Rev. Phineas acknowledged that perhaps he should; but he was honest enough to repeat that
the lad had stuff in him.  "Perhaps after all he is not a wolf," said the widow to herself.

Things went on in this way for above a month.  Aaron had declared to himself over and over
again that that face was sweet to look upon, and had unconsciously promised to himself certain
delights in talking and perhaps walking with the owner of it.  But the walkings had not been
achieved--nor even the talkings as yet.  The truth was that Dunn was bashful with young women,
though he could be so stiff- necked with the minister.

And then he felt angry with himself, inasmuch as he had advanced no further; and as he lay
in his bed--which perhaps those pretty hands had helped to make--he resolved that he would
be a thought bolder in his bearing.  He had no idea of making love to Susan Bell; of course
not.  But why should he not amuse himself by talking to a pretty girl when she sat so near
him, evening after evening?

"What a very quiet young man he is," said Susan to her sister.

"He has his bread to earn, and sticks to his work," said Hetta.  "No doubt he has his amusement
when he is in the city," added the elder sister, not wishing to leave too strong an impression
of the young man's virtue.

They had all now their settled places in the parlour.  Hetta sat on one side of the fire, close
to the table, having that side to herself.  There she sat always busy.  She must have made
every dress and bit of linen worn in the house, and hemmed every sheet and towel, so busy was
she always.  Sometimes, once in a week or so, Phineas Beckard would come in, and then place
was made for him between Hetta's usual seat and the table.  For when there he would read out
loud.  On the other side, close also to the table, sat the widow, busy, but not savagely busy
as her elder daughter.  Between Mrs. Bell and the wall, with her feet ever on the fender, Susan
used to sit; not absolutely idle, but doing work of some slender pretty sort, and talking ever
and anon to her mother.  Opposite to them all, at the other side of the table, far away from
the fire, would Aaron Dunn place himself with his plans and drawings before him.

"Are you a judge of bridges, ma'am?" said Aaron, the evening after he had made his resolution.
'Twas thus he began his courtship.

"Of bridges?" said Mrs. Bell--"oh dear no, sir."  But she put out her hand to take the little
drawing which Aaron handed to her.

"Because that's one I've planned for our bit of a new branch from Moreau up to Lake George.
I guess Miss Susan knows something about bridges."

"I guess I don't," said Susan--"only that they oughtn't to tumble down when the frost comes."

"Ha, ha, ha; no more they ought.  I'll tell McEvoy that."  McEvoy had been a former engineer
on the line.  "Well, that won't burst with any frost, I guess."

"Oh my! how pretty!" said the widow, and then Susan of course jumped up to look over her mother's
shoulder.

The artful dodger! he had drawn and coloured a beautiful little sketch of a bridge; not an
engineer's plan with sections and measurements, vexatious to a woman's eye, but a graceful
little bridge with a string of cars running under it.  You could almost hear the bell going.

"Well; that is a pretty bridge," said Susan.  "Isn't it, Hetta?"

"I don't know anything about bridges," said Hetta, to whose clever eyes the dodge was quite
apparent.  But in spite of her cleverness Mrs. Bell and Susan had soon moved their chairs round
to the table, and were looking through the contents of Aaron's portfolio.  "But yet he may
be a wolf," thought the poor widow, just as she was kneeling down to say her prayers.

That evening certainly made a commencement.  Though Hetta went on pertinaciously with the body
of a new dress, the other two ladies did not put in another stitch that night.  From his drawings
Aaron got to his instruments, and before bedtime was teaching Susan how to draw parallel lines.
Susan found that she had quite an aptitude for parallel lines, and altogether had a good time
of it that evening. It is dull to go on week after week, and month after month, talking only
to one's mother and sister.  It is dull though one does not oneself recognise it to be so.
A little change in such matters is so very pleasant.  Susan had not the slightest idea of regarding
Aaron as even a possible lover.  But young ladies do like the conversation of young gentlemen.
Oh, my exceedingly proper prim old lady, you who are so shocked at this as a general doctrine,
has it never occurred to you that the Creator has so intended it?

Susan understanding little of the how and why, knew that she had had a good time, and was rather
in spirits as she went to bed.  But Hetta had been frightened by the dodge.

"Oh, Hetta, you should have looked at those drawings.  He is so clever!" said Susan.

"I don't know that they would have done me much good," replied Hetta.

"Good!  Well, they'd do me more good than a long sermon, I know," said Susan; "except on a
Sunday, of course," she added apologetically.  This was an ill-tempered attack both on Hetta
and Hetta's admirer.  But then why had Hetta been so snappish?

"I'm sure he's a wolf;" thought Hetta as she went to bed.

"What a very clever young man he is!" thought Susan to herself as she pulled the warm clothes
round about her shoulders and ears.

"Well that certainly was an improvement," thought Aaron as he went through the same operation,
with a stronger feeling of self- approbation than he had enjoyed for some time past.

In the course of the next fortnight the family arrangements all altered themselves.  Unless
when Beckard was there Aaron would sit in the widow's place, the widow would take Susan's chair,
and the two girls would be opposite.  And then Dunn would read to them; not sermons, but passages
from Shakspeare, and Byron, and Longfellow. "He reads much better than Mr. Beckard," Susan
had said one night. "Of course you're a competent judge!" had been Hetta's retort.  "I mean
that I like it better," said Susan.  "It's well that all people don't think alike," replied Hetta.

And then there was a deal of talking.  The widow herself, as unconscious in this respect as
her youngest daughter, certainly did find that a little variety was agreeable on those long
winter nights; and talked herself with unaccustomed freedom.  And Beckard came there oftener
and talked very much.  When he was there the two young men did all the talking, and they pounded
each other immensely.  But still there grew up a sort of friendship between them.

"Mr. Beckard seems quite to take to him," said Mrs. Bell to her eldest daughter.

"It is his great good nature, mother," replied Hetta.

It was at the end of the second month when Aaron took another step in advance--a perilous step.
Sometimes on evenings he still went on with his drawing for an hour or so; but during three
or four evenings he never asked any one to look at what he was doing.  On one Friday he sat
over his work till late, without any reading or talking at all; so late that at last Mrs. Bell
said, "If you're going to sit much longer, Mr. Dunn, I'll get you to put out the candles."
Thereby showing, had he known it or had she, that the mother's confidence in the young man
was growing fast.  Hetta knew all about it, and dreaded that the growth was too quick.

"I've finished now," said Aaron; and he looked carefully at the cardboard on which he had been
washing in his water-colours.  "I've finished now."  He then hesitated a moment; but ultimately
he put the card into his portfolio and carried it up to his bedroom.  Who does not perceive
that it was intended as a present to Susan Bell?

The question which Aaron asked himself that night, and which he hardly knew how to answer,
was this.  Should he offer the drawing to Susan in the presence of her mother and sister, or
on some occasion when they two might be alone together?  No such occasion had ever yet occurred,
but Aaron thought that it might probably be brought about.  But then he wanted to make no fuss
about it.  His first intention had been to chuck the drawing lightly across the table when
it was completed, and so make nothing of it.  But he had finished it with more care than he
had at first intended; and then he had hesitated when he had finished it.  It was too late
now for that plan of chucking it over the table.

On the Saturday evening when he came down from his room, Mr. Beckard was there, and there was
no opportunity that night.  On the Sunday, in conformity with a previous engagement, he went
to hear Mr. Beckard preach, and walked to and from meeting with the family. This pleased Mrs.
Bell, and they were all very gracious that afternoon.  But Sunday was no day for the picture.

On Monday the thing had become of importance to him.  Things always do when they are kept over.
Before tea that evening when he came down Mrs. Bell and Susan only were in the room.  He knew
Hetta for his foe, and therefore determined to use this occasion.

"Miss Susan," he said, stammering somewhat, and blushing too, poor fool!  "I have done a little
drawing which I want you to accept," and he put his portfolio down on the table.

"Oh!  I don't know," said Susan, who had seen the blush.

Mrs. Bell had seen the blush also, and pursed her mouth up, and looked grave.  Had there been
no stammering and no blush, she might have thought nothing of it.

Aaron saw at once that his little gift was not to go down smoothly. He was, however, in for
it now, so he picked it out from among the other papers in the case and brought it over to
Susan.  He endeavoured to hand it to her with an air of indifference, but I cannot say that
he succeeded.

It was a very pretty, well-finished, water-coloured drawing, representing still the same bridge,
but with more adjuncts.  In Susan's eyes it was a work of high art.  Of pictures probably she
had seen but little, and her liking for the artist no doubt added to her admiration.  But the
more she admired it and wished for it, the stronger was her feeling that she ought not to take it.

Poor Susan! she stood for a minute looking at the drawing, but she said nothing; not even a
word of praise.  She felt that she was red in the face, and uncourteous to their lodger; but
her mother was looking at her and she did not know how to behave herself.

Mrs. Bell put out her hand for the sketch, trying to bethink herself as she did so in what
least uncivil way she could refuse the present.  She took a moment to look at it collecting
her thoughts, and as she did so her woman's wit came to her aid.

"Oh dear, Mr. Dunn, it is very pretty; quite a beautiful picture.  I cannot let Susan rob you
of that.  You must keep that for some of your own particular friends."

"But I did it for her," said Aaron innocently.

Susan looked down at the ground, half pleased at the declaration. The drawing would look very
pretty in a small gilt frame put over her dressing-table.  But the matter now was altogether
in her mother's hands.

"I am afraid it is too valuable, sir, for Susan to accept."

"It is not valuable at all," said Aaron, declining to take it back from the widow's hand.

"Oh, I am quite sure it is.  It is worth ten dollars at least--or twenty," said poor Mrs. Bell,
not in the very best taste.  But she was perplexed, and did not know how to get out of the
scrape.  The article in question now lay upon the table-cloth, appropriated by no one, and
at this moment Hetta came into the room.

"It is not worth ten cents," said Aaron, with something like a frown on his brow.  "But as
we had been talking about the bridge, I thought Miss Susan would accept it."

"Accept what?" said Hetta.  And then her eye fell upon the drawing and she took it up.

"It is beautifully done," said Mrs. Bell, wishing much to soften the matter; perhaps the more
so that Hetta the demure was now present. "I am telling Mr. Dunn that we can't take a present
of anything so valuable."

"Oh dear no," said Hetta.  "It wouldn't be right."

It was a cold frosty evening in March, and the fire was burning brightly on the hearth.  Aaron
Dunn took up the drawing quietly-- very quietly--and rolling it up, as such drawings are rolled,
put it between the blazing logs.  It was the work of four evenings, and his chef-d'oeuvre in
the way of art.

Susan, when she saw what he had done, burst out into tears.  The widow could very readily have
done so also, but she was able to refrain herself, and merely exclaimed--"Oh, Mr. Dunn!"

"If Mr. Dunn chooses to burn his own picture, he has certainly a right to do so," said Hetta.

Aaron immediately felt ashamed of what he had done; and he also could have cried, but for his
manliness.  He walked away to one of the parlour-windows, and looked out upon the frosty night.
It was dark, but the stars were bright, and he thought that he should like to be walking fast
by himself along the line of rails towards Balston.  There he stood, perhaps for three minutes.
He thought it would be proper to give Susan time to recover from her tears.

"Will you please to come to your tea, sir?" said the soft voice of Mrs. Bell.

He turned round to do so, and found that Susan was gone.  It was not quite in her power to
recover from her tears in three minutes.  And then the drawing had been so beautiful!  It had
been done expressly for her too!  And there had been something, she knew not what, in his eye
as he had so declared.  She had watched him intently over those four evenings' work, wondering
why he did not show it, till her feminine curiosity had become rather strong.  It was something
very particular, she was sure, and she had learned that all that precious work had been for
her.  Now all that precious work was destroyed.  How was it possible that she should not cry
for more than three minutes?

The others took their meal in perfect silence, and when it was over the two women sat down
to their work.  Aaron had a book which he pretended to read, but instead of reading he was
bethinking himself that he had behaved badly.  What right had he to throw them all into such
confusion by indulging in his passion?  He was ashamed of what he had done, and fancied that
Susan would hate him.  Fancying that, he began to find at the same time that he by no means
hated her.

At last Hetta got up and left the room.  She knew that her sister was sitting alone in the
cold, and Hetta was affectionate.  Susan had not been in fault, and therefore Hetta went up
to console her.

"Mrs. Bell," said Aaron, as soon as the door was closed, "I beg your pardon for what I did
just now."

"Oh, sir, I'm so sorry that the picture is burnt," said poor Mrs. Bell.

"The picture does not matter a straw," said Aaron.  "But I see that I have disturbed you all,--and
I am afraid I have made Miss Susan unhappy."

"She was grieved because your picture was burnt," said Mrs. Bell, putting some emphasis on
the "your," intending to show that her daughter had not regarded the drawing as her own.  But
the emphasis bore another meaning; and so the widow perceived as soon as she had spoken.

"Oh, I can do twenty more of the same if anybody wanted them," said Aaron.  "If I do another
like it, will you let her take it, Mrs. Bell?--just to show that you have forgiven me, and
that we are friends as we were before?"

Was he, or was he not a wolf?  That was the question which Mrs. Bell scarcely knew how to answer.
Hetta had given her voice, saying he was lupine.  Mr. Beckard's opinion she had not liked to
ask directly.  Mr. Beckard she thought would probably propose to Hetta; but as yet he had not
done so.  And, as he was still a stranger in the family, she did not like in any way to compromise
Susan's name. Indirectly she had asked the question, and, indirectly also, Mr. Beckard's answer
had been favourable.

"But it mustn't mean anything, sir," was the widow's weak answer, when she had paused on the
question for a moment.

"Oh no, of course not," said Aaron, joyously, and his face became radiant and happy.  "And
I do beg your pardon for burning it; and the young ladies' pardon too."  And then he rapidly
got out his cardboard, and set himself to work about another bridge.  The widow, meditating
many things in her heart, commenced the hemming of a handkerchief.

In about an hour the two girls came back to the room and silently took their accustomed places.
Aaron hardly looked up, but went on diligently with his drawing.  This bridge should be a better
bridge than that other.  Its acceptance was now assured.  Of course it was to mean nothing.
That was a matter of course.  So he worked away diligently, and said nothing to anybody.

When they went off to bed the two girls went into the mother's room. "Oh, mother, I hope he
is not very angry," said Susan.

"Angry!" said Hetta, "if anybody should be angry, it is mother.  He ought to have known that
Susan could not accept it.  He should never have offered it."

"But he's doing another," said Mrs. Bell.

"Not for her," said Hetta.

"Yes he is," said Mrs. Bell, "and I have promised that she shall take it."  Susan as she heard
this sank gently into the chair behind her, and her eyes became full of tears.  The intimation
was almost too much for her.

"Oh, mother!" said Hetta.

"But I particularly said that it was to mean nothing."

"Oh, mother, that makes it worse."

Why should Hetta interfere in this way, thought Susan to herself. Had she interfered when Mr.
Beckard gave Hetta a testament bound in Morocco? had not she smiled, and looked gratified,
and kissed her sister, and declared that Phineas Beckard was a nice dear man, and by far the
most elegant preacher at the Springs?  Why should Hetta be so cruel?

"I don't see that, my dear," said the mother.  Hetta would not explain before her sister, so
they all went to bed.

On the Thursday evening the drawing was finished.  Not a word had been said about it, at any
rate in his presence, and he had gone on working in silence.  "There," said he, late on the
Thursday evening, "I don't know that it will be any better if I go on daubing for another hour.
There, Miss Susan; there's another bridge.  I hope that will neither burst with the frost,
nor yet be destroyed by fire," and he gave it a light flip with his fingers and sent it skimming
over the table.

Susan blushed and smiled, and took it up.  "Oh, it is beautiful," she said.  "Isn't it beautifully
done, mother?" and then all the three got up to look at it, and all confessed that it was excellently
done.

"And I am sure we are very much obliged to you," said Susan after a pause, remembering that
she had not yet thanked him.

"Oh, it's nothing," said he, not quite liking the word "we."  On the following day he returned
from his work to Saratoga about noon. This he had never done before, and therefore no one expected
that he would be seen in the house before the evening.  On this occasion, however, he went
straight thither, and as chance would have it, both the widow and her elder daughter were out.
Susan was there alone in charge of the house.

He walked in and opened the parlour door.  There she sat, with her feet on the fender, with
her work unheeded on the table behind her, and the picture, Aaron's drawing, lying on her knees.
She was gazing at it intently as he entered, thinking in her young heart that it possessed
all the beauties which a picture could possess.

"Oh, Mr. Dunn," she said, getting up and holding the telltale sketch behind the skirt of her dress.

"Miss Susan, I have come here to tell your mother that I must start for New York this afternoon
and be there for six weeks, or perhaps longer."

"Mother is out," said she; "I'm so sorry."

"Is she?" said Aaron.

"And Hetta too.  Dear me.  And you'll be wanting dinner.  I'll go and see about it."

Aaron began to swear that he could not possibly eat any dinner.  He had dined once, and was
going to dine again;--anything to keep her from going.

"But you must have something, Mr. Dunn," and she walked towards the door.

But he put his back to it.  "Miss Susan," said he, "I guess I've been here nearly two months."

"Yes, sir, I believe you have," she replied, shaking in her shoes, and not knowing which way
to look.

"And I hope we have been good friends."

"Yes, sir," said Susan, almost beside herself as to what she was saying.

"I'm going away now, and it seems to be such a time before I'll be back."

"Will it, Sir?"

"Six weeks, Miss Susan!" and then he paused, looking into her eyes, to see what he could read
there.  She leant against the table, pulling to pieces a morsel of half-ravelled muslin which
she held in her hand; but her eyes were turned to the ground, and he could hardly see them.

"Miss Susan," he continued, "I may as well speak out now as at another time."  He too was looking
towards the ground, and clearly did not know what to do with his hands.  "The truth is just
this. I--I love you dearly, with all my heart.  I never saw any one I ever thought so beautiful,
so nice, and so good;--and what's more, I never shall.  I'm not very good at this sort of thing,
I know; but I couldn't go away from Saratoga for six weeks and not tell you."  And then he
ceased.  He did not ask for any love in return.  His presumption had not got so far as that
yet.  He merely declared his passion, leaning against the door, and there he stood twiddling
his thumbs.

