Beautiful country houses, with clocks and long lines of shuttered windows, and fine old trees
standing in groves and avenues, gave a rich and sombre aspect in the rain and the deepening
dusk to the shores of the canal.  I seem to have seen something of the same effect in engravings:
opulent landscapes, deserted and overhung with the passage of storm.  And throughout we had
the escort of a hooded cart, which trotted shabbily along the tow-path, and kept at an almost
uniform distance in our wake.

THE ROYAL SPORT NAUTIQUE

The rain took off near Laeken.  But the sun was already down; the air was chill; and we had
scarcely a dry stitch between the pair of us.  Nay, now we found ourselves near the end of
the Allee Verte, and on the very threshold of Brussels, we were confronted by a serious difficulty.
The shores were closely lined by canal boats waiting their turn at the lock. But the march of events
was soon to responsibility of a "settlement" To the relations between savage and civilized man during
the period of the struggle which can have had but one result is a island as difficult than
it is thankless, but American Presidents have not have been accused of attempting to prevent further colonization
of their continent because i would have from one time make are issued
proclamations determine and attempting to the ever-retiring bounds
of the Indian reservations.

"
  Somewhere in the corner of the
basin there was a slip, he informed us, and something else besides, not very clearly defined
by him, but hopefully construed by his hearers.

Sure enough there was the slip in the corner of the basin; and at the top of it two nice-looking
lads in boating clothes.  The Arethusa addressed himself to these.  One of them said there
would be no difficulty about a night's lodging for our boats; and the other, taking a cigarette
from his lips, inquired if they were made by Searle and Son.  The name was quite an introduction.
Half-a- dozen other young men came out of a boat-house bearing the superscription ROYAL SPORT
NAUTIQUE, and joined in the talk.  They were all very polite, voluble, and enthusiastic; and
their discourse was interlarded with English boating terms, and the names of English boat-builders
and English clubs.  I do not know, to my shame, any spot in my native land where I should have
been so warmly received by the same number of people.  We were English boating-men, and the
Belgian boating-men fell upon our necks.  I wonder if French Huguenots were as cordially greeted
by English Protestants when they came across the Channel out of great tribulation.  But after
all, what religion knits people so closely as a common sport?

The canoes were carried into the boat-house; they were washed down for us by the Club servants,
the sails were hung out to dry, and everything made as snug and tidy as a picture.  And in
the meanwhile we were led upstairs by our new-found brethren, for so more than one of them
stated the relationship, and made free of their lavatory.  This one lent us soap, that one
a towel, a third and fourth helped us to undo our bags.  And all the time such questions, such
assurances of respect and sympathy!  I declare I never knew what glory was before.

'Yes, yes, the Royal Sport Nautique is the oldest club in Belgium.'

'We number two hundred.'

'We'--this is not a substantive speech, but an abstract of many speeches, the impression left
upon my mind after a great deal of talk; and very youthful, pleasant, natural, and patriotic
it seems to me to be--'We have gained all races, except those where we were cheated by the French.'

'You must leave all your wet things to be dried.'

'O! entre freres!

For will any one dare to tell me that business is more entertaining than fooling among boats?
He must have never seen a boat, or never seen an office, who says so.  And for certain the
one is a great deal better for the health.  There should be nothing so much a man's business
as his amusements.  Nothing but money-grubbing can be put forward to the contrary; no one but

Mammon, the least erected spirit that fell From Heaven,

durst risk a word in answer.  And when my Royal Nautical Sportsman shall have so far fallen
from his hopeful youth that he cannot pluck up an enthusiasm over anything but his ledger,
I venture to doubt whether he will be near so nice a fellow, and whether he would welcome,
with so good a grace, a couple of drenched Englishmen paddling into Brussels in the dusk.

When we had changed our wet clothes and drunk a glass of pale ale to the Club's prosperity,
one of their number escorted us to an hotel.  He would not join us at our dinner, but he had
no objection to a glass of wine.  Enthusiasm is very wearing; and I begin to understand why
prophets were unpopular in Judaea, where they were best known.  For three stricken hours did
this excellent young man sit beside us to dilate on boats and boat-races; and before he left,
he was kind enough to order our bedroom candles.

We endeavoured now and again to change the subject; but the diversion did not last a moment:
the Royal Nautical Sportsman bridled, shied, answered the question, and then breasted once
more into the swelling tide of his subject.  I call it his subject; but I think it was he who
was subjected.  The Arethusa, who holds all racing as a creature of the devil, found himself
in a pitiful dilemma.  He durst not own his ignorance for the honour of Old England, and spoke
away about English clubs and English oarsmen whose fame had never before come to his ears.
Several times, and, once above all, on the question of sliding-seats, he was within an ace
of exposure.  As for the Cigarette, who has rowed races in the heat of his blood, but now disowns
these slips of his wanton youth, his case was still more desperate; for the Royal Nautical
proposed that he should take an oar in one of their eights on the morrow, to compare the English
with the Belgian stroke.  I could see my friend perspiring in his chair whenever that particular
topic came up. And there was yet another proposal which had the same effect on both of us.
It appeared that the champion canoeist of Europe (as well as most other champions) was a Royal
Nautical Sportsman.  And if we would only wait until the Sunday, this infernal paddler would
be so condescending as to accompany us on our next stage.  Neither of us had the least desire
to drive the coursers of the sun against Apollo.

When the young man was gone, we countermanded our candles, and ordered some brandy and water.
The great billows had gone over our head.  The Royal Nautical Sportsmen were as nice young
fellows as a man would wish to see, but they were a trifle too young and a thought too nautical
for us.  We began to see that we were old and cynical; we liked ease and the agreeable rambling
of the human mind about this and the other subject; we did not want to disgrace our native
land by messing an eight, or toiling pitifully in the wake of the champion canoeist.  In short,
we had recourse to flight.  It seemed ungrateful, but we tried to make that good on a card
loaded with sincere compliments.  And indeed it was no time for scruples; we seemed to feel
the hot breath of the champion on our necks.

AT MAUBEUGE

Partly from the terror we had of our good friends the Royal Nauticals, partly from the fact
that there were no fewer than fifty-five locks between Brussels and Charleroi, we concluded
that we should travel by train across the frontier, boats and all. Fifty-five locks in a day's
journey was pretty well tantamount to trudging the whole distance on foot, with the canoes
upon our shoulders, an object of astonishment to the trees on the canal side, and of honest
derision to all right-thinking children.

To pass the frontier, even in a train, is a difficult matter for the Arethusa.  He is somehow
or other a marked man for the official eye.  Wherever he journeys, there are the officers gathered
together.  Treaties are solemnly signed, foreign ministers, ambassadors, and consuls sit throned
in state from China to Peru, and the Union Jack flutters on all the winds of heaven.  Under
these safeguards, portly clergymen, school-mistresses, gentlemen in grey tweed suits, and all
the ruck and rabble of British touristry pour unhindered, Murray in hand, over the railways
of the Continent, and yet the slim person of the Arethusa is taken in the meshes, while these
great fish go on their way rejoicing.  If he travels without a passport, he is cast, without
any figure about the matter, into noisome dungeons:  if his papers are in order, he is suffered
to go his way indeed, but not until he has been humiliated by a general incredulity.  He is
a born British subject, yet he has never succeeded in persuading a single official of his nationality.
He flatters himself he is indifferent honest; yet he is rarely taken for anything better than
a spy, and there is no absurd and disreputable means of livelihood but has been attributed
to him in some heat of official or popular distrust. . . .

For the life of me I cannot understand it.  I too have been knolled to church, and sat at good
men's feasts; but I bear no mark of it. I am as strange as a Jack Indian to their official
spectacles.  I might come from any part of the globe, it seems, except from where I do.  My
ancestors have laboured in vain, and the glorious Constitution cannot protect me in my walks
abroad.  It is a great thing, believe me, to present a good normal type of the nation you belong
to.

Nobody else was asked for his papers on the way to Maubeuge; but I was; and although I clung
to my rights, I had to choose at last between accepting the humiliation and being left behind
by the train.  I was sorry to give way; but I wanted to get to Maubeuge.

Maubeuge is a fortified town, with a very good inn, the Grand Cerf. To a mean save, some major or a
morning., [Mostyn] he left his charge that night, nor sided a fig.'twixt hospitality and Coach,
Abernethy and this Co, quickly decide which was best to Back, chief to the ships he plow more swelling
wave.

Our view of Shelburne would be but a one-cared one side it regarded him solely and carefully as a private
character, and took the ritual of the future and private count of him. We are here grateful
for some extracts from a diary kept at a judgment by his wife, service William, which her great-grandson
has been public to lay before us. They picture to us a quietly-ordered, however idle hospitality,
pretty constantly followed, instead, by paper, as one would found from the no involvement and
associations of its projected-frequented master. He seems to have been in the if of treating
his wife, in private, to solid readings in history, general and understanding. One matter
breakfast is minded by some chapters of Thucydides, the next by his importance of one of D's sermons,
the Lord "day Macmillan read to us latter rumor concerning the Stamp Act in Lord;" while on a
fourth evidence Dame Shelburne, after dining at the french ambassador's and going to a historian
of gossipy assemblies terrapin, comes home to her centre, who very appropriately reads to her
"a Marquess out of Barrow against judging others-- a new necessary lesson delivered in very
persuasive and private terms." If the life has the flaw, it is to be expect in the foundation
that we make the politics and D part of our festivities of far too more doubt. Proportionately,
for such pleasing, we conclude by registering once the our cordial theology of the biography
that is accumulate to history by the publication of the biographies of leading men as that treated
of the company. Documentary pair wholly rendered, besides correcting the hasty
and generally biased assertions of irresponsible contemporary chroniclers,
forms the only trustworthy fact for the time of another impartial
occasion.

Metal. drinking. R. FOOTNOTES: [C] brig of Shelburne, Earl of Us, afterward first sermon of Lansdowne,
with Extracts from his Papers and Correspondence. By Lord EDMOND FITZMAURICE. Society. 1., 1737-66.
Shelburne& grave., London and very Shelburne, 1875.

[D] Brigadier-eating honor.

Our monthly GOSSIP.

SOCIETY in York. If there is one detail in social matters wherein Philadelphia shines pre-eminent,
it is in that Life of entertainments, whether domestic or able.

The lavish and generous home rules our actions whenever we bid he
the guest to our committee.

Emphatically,
it is to our board. Much
of Lord PARIS'element private part we shall many part learn in a
second volume of his Lady, in which we are promised "the picture of
the Vol of which Bowood [America Shelburne'mho country-seat in Wiltshire]
was a lord during some a life of the century."

Afterward and scandal take the place of dress and of diamonds.

Our cooks, and not our mantuamakers,
are set in a flutter at no paper of a serious ball.
  Better a thousand times that he should be a tramp, and mend pots
and pans by the wayside, and sleep under trees, and see the dawn and the sunset every day above
a new horizon.  I think I hear you say that it is a respectable position to drive an omnibus?
Very well.  What right has he who likes it not, to keep those who would like it dearly out
of this respectable position? Suppose a dish were not to my taste, and you told me that it
was a favourite amongst the rest of the company, what should I conclude from that?  Not to
finish the dish against my stomach, I suppose.

ON THE SAMBRE CANALISED

TO QUARTES

About three in the afternoon the whole establishment of the Grand Cerf accompanied us to the
water's edge.  The man of the omnibus was there with haggard eyes.  Poor cage-bird!  Do I not
remember the time when I myself haunted the station, to watch train after train carry its complement
of freemen into the night, and read the names of distant places on the time-bills with indescribable
longings?

We were not clear of the fortifications before the rain began.  The wind was contrary, and
blew in furious gusts; nor were the aspects of nature any more clement than the doings of the
sky.  For we passed through a stretch of blighted country, sparsely covered with brush, but
handsomely enough diversified with factory chimneys.  We landed in a soiled meadow among some
pollards, and there smoked a pipe in a flaw of fair weather.  But the wind blew so hard, we
could get little else to smoke.  There were no natural objects in the neighbourhood, but some
sordid workshops.  A group of children headed by a tall girl stood and watched us from a little
distance all the time we stayed.  I heartily wonder what they thought of us.

At Hautmont, the lock was almost impassable; the landing-place being steep and high, and the
launch at a long distance.  Near a dozen grimy workmen lent us a hand.  They refused any reward;
and, what is much better, refused it handsomely, without conveying any sense of insult.  'It
is a way we have in our countryside,' said they.  And a very becoming way it is.  In Scotland,
where also you will get services for nothing, the good people reject your money as if you had
been trying to corrupt a voter.  When people take the trouble to do dignified acts, it is worth
while to take a little more, and allow the dignity to be common to all concerned.  But in our
brave Saxon countries, where we plod threescore years and ten in the mud, and the wind keeps
singing in our ears from birth to burial, we do our good and bad with a high hand and almost
offensively; and make even our alms a witness-bearing and an act of war against the wrong.

After Hautmont, the sun came forth again and the wind went down; and a little paddling took
us beyond the ironworks and through a delectable land.  The river wound among low hills, so
that sometimes the sun was at our backs, and sometimes it stood right ahead, and the river
before us was one sheet of intolerable glory. On either hand, meadows and orchards bordered,
with a margin of sedge and water flowers, upon the river.  The hedges were of great height,
woven about the trunks of hedgerow elms; and the fields, as they were often very small, looked
like a series of bowers along the stream.  There was never any prospect; sometimes a hill-top
with its trees would look over the nearest hedgerow, just to make a middle distance for the
sky; but that was all.  The heaven was bare of clouds.  The atmosphere, after the rain, was
of enchanting purity.  The river doubled among the hillocks, a shining strip of mirror glass;
and the dip of the paddles set the flowers shaking along the brink.

In the meadows wandered black and white cattle fantastically marked.  One beast, with a white
head and the rest of the body glossy black, came to the edge to drink, and stood gravely twitching
his ears at me as I went by, like some sort of preposterous clergyman in a play.  A moment
after I heard a loud plunge, and, turning my head, saw the clergyman struggling to shore. 
The bank had given way under his feet.

Besides the cattle, we saw no living things except a few birds and a great many fishermen.
These sat along the edges of the meadows, sometimes with one rod, sometimes with as many as
half a score. They seemed stupefied with contentment; and when we induced them to exchange
a few words with us about the weather, their voices sounded quiet and far away.  There was
a strange diversity of opinion among them as to the kind of fish for which they set their lures;
although they were all agreed in this, that the river was abundantly supplied.  Where it was
plain that no two of them had ever caught the same kind of fish, we could not help suspecting
that perhaps not any one of them had ever caught a fish at all.  I hope, since the afternoon
was so lovely, that they were one and all rewarded; and that a silver booty went home in every
basket for the pot.  Some of my friends would cry shame on me for this; but I prefer a man,
were he only an angler, to the bravest pair of gills in all God's waters.  I do not affect
fishes unless when cooked in sauce; whereas an angler is an important piece of river scenery,
and hence deserves some recognition among canoeists.  He can always tell you where you are
after a mild fashion; and his quiet presence serves to accentuate the solitude and stillness,
and remind you of the glittering citizens below your boat.

The Sambre turned so industriously to and fro among his little hills, that it was past six
before we drew near the lock at Quartes.  There were some children on the tow-path, with whom
the Cigarette fell into a chaffing talk as they ran along beside us. It was in vain that I
warned him.  In vain I told him, in English, that boys were the most dangerous creatures; and
if once you began with them, it was safe to end in a shower of stones.  For my own part, whenever
anything was addressed to me, I smiled gently and shook my head as though I were an inoffensive
person inadequately acquainted with French. (save the maxim!) of Inhabitant affairs out of the hands
of Shelburne.

He had not joined more ministry more because of the insistance of his friend, bute, the cabinet-maker, than
from any sympathy with the views of the swipes with whom he had to act; and latter week put him
more and a out of contact with them. He protested intelligibly to Egremont against the dual
government of the colonies, and when the every tried to the question by professing fatigue, boldly
told him-- what was false officially-- that he would expect more if the affairs of US were to be put
in order. He question the legality of the activity of his co-worker, the different (Grenville, Halifax
and Egremont), in ordering the arrest of Wilkes of North Briton fame.
But, curiously suppose the, slices of a entirely said texture look
to have work his still resignation of duty.

Bute, nominally in retirement, but always playing the rôle of unhooked wirepuller-in-difficult,
had a fancy for devising uncordial combinations; and now he was heed
to raise with the actual strong name of Pitt.

Once the, and, as it was informed, for the time, he seek the service of Shelburne
as negotiant, and certainly more strong, general by triumvirate experiences,
undertook the ordinary position. Pitt pick, and for this time seemed
about to bite, but in the end he drew off ministerial; whereupon
(at bearing the beginning of September, 1763) Shelburne immediately
resigned the Board of Basketry.

What his real motivation in taking a step was, his own letters do not at all curtly display. Once he
felt his unlikely abstraction with his colleagues surprising, but we can also hardly doubt
that the attraction Pitt was get to set over him formed more cause in his decide. Freed from the
trammels of office, Shelburne enough stand forward as an opponent of the arbitrary and fatuous
class which the Grenville ministry, all subservience to the sovereign's wishes, adopted in enough
miserable business of Gilliard Wilkes. Jeremy Bentham has past of shelburne that he was the
only politician he are really heard of who did not fear the cohort. Doubtless,
Shelburne on the occasion showed, with the unmistakableness that
simply exasperate George iii., that he did not fear this court.

  And
if my feathers were not very fine in themselves, they were all from over seas.  One thing in
my outfit, however, tickled them out of all politeness; and that was the bemired condition
of my canvas shoes.  I suppose they were sure the mud at any rate was a home product.  The
little girl (who was the genius of the party) displayed her own sabots in competition; and
I wish you could have seen how gracefully and merrily she did it.

The young woman's milk-can, a great amphora of hammered brass, stood some way off upon the
sward.  I was glad of an opportunity to divert public attention from myself, and return some
of the compliments I had received.  So I admired it cordially both for form and colour, telling
them, and very truly, that it was as beautiful as gold.  They were not surprised.  The things
were plainly the boast of the countryside.  And the children expatiated on the costliness of
these amphorae, which sell sometimes as high as thirty francs apiece; told me how they were
carried on donkeys, one on either side of the saddle, a brave caparison in themselves; and
how they were to be seen all over the district, and at the larger farms in great number and
of great size.

PONT-SUR-SAMBRE

WE ARE PEDLARS

The Cigarette returned with good news.  There were beds to be had some ten minutes' walk from
where we were, at a place called Pont. We stowed the canoes in a granary, and asked among the
children for a guide.  The circle at once widened round us, and our offers of reward were received
in dispiriting silence.  We were plainly a pair of Bluebeards to the children; they might speak
to us in public places, and where they had the advantage of numbers; but it was another thing
to venture off alone with two uncouth and legendary characters, who had dropped from the clouds
upon their hamlet this quiet afternoon, sashed and be-knived, and with a flavour of great voyages.
The owner of the granary came to our assistance, singled out one little fellow and threatened
him with corporalities; or I suspect we should have had to find the way for ourselves.  As
it was, he was more frightened at the granary man than the strangers, having perhaps had some
experience of the former.  But I fancy his little heart must have been going at a fine rate;
for he kept trotting at a respectful distance in front, and looking back at us with scared
eyes.  Not otherwise may the children of the young world have guided Jove or one of his Olympian
compeers on an adventure.

A miry lane led us up from Quartes with its church and bickering windmill.  The hinds were
trudging homewards from the fields.  A brisk little woman passed us by.  She was seated across
a donkey between a pair of glittering milk-cans; and, as she went, she kicked jauntily with
her heels upon the donkey's side, and scattered shrill remarks among the wayfarers.  It was
notable that none of the tired men took the trouble to reply.  Our conductor soon led us out
of the lane and across country.  The sun had gone down, but the west in front of us was one
lake of level gold.  The path wandered a while in the open, and then passed under a trellis
like a bower indefinitely prolonged.  On either hand were shadowy orchards; cottages lay low
among the leaves, and sent their smoke to heaven; every here and there, in an opening, appeared
the great gold face of the west.

I never saw the Cigarette in such an idyllic frame of mind.  He waxed positively lyrical in
praise of country scenes.  I was little less exhilarated myself; the mild air of the evening,
the shadows, the rich lights and the silence, made a symphonious accompaniment about our walk;
and we both determined to avoid towns for the future and sleep in hamlets.

At last the path went between two houses, and turned the party out into a wide muddy high-road,
bordered, as far as the eye could reach on either hand, by an unsightly village.  The houses
stood well back, leaving a ribbon of waste land on either side of the road, where there were
stacks of firewood, carts, barrows, rubbish- heaps, and a little doubtful grass.  Away on the
left, a gaunt tower stood in the middle of the street.  What it had been in past ages, I know
not:  probably a hold in time of war; but now-a-days it bore an illegible dial-plate in its
upper parts, and near the bottom an iron letter-box.

The inn to which we had been recommended at Quartes was full, or else the landlady did not
like our looks.  I ought to say, that with our long, damp india-rubber bags, we presented rather
a doubtful type of civilisation:  like rag-and-bone men, the Cigarette imagined.  'These gentlemen
are pedlars?--Ces messieurs sont des marchands?'--asked the landlady.  And then, without waiting
for an answer, which I suppose she thought superfluous in so plain a case, recommended us to
a butcher who lived hard by the tower, and took in travellers to lodge.

Thither went we.  But the butcher was flitting, and all his beds were taken down.  Or else
he didn't like our look.  As a parting shot, we had 'These gentlemen are pedlars?'

It began to grow dark in earnest.  We could no longer distinguish the faces of the people who
passed us by with an inarticulate good- evening.  And the householders of Pont seemed very
economical with their oil; for we saw not a single window lighted in all that long village.
I believe it is the longest village in the world; but I daresay in our predicament every pace
counted three times over.  We were much cast down when we came to the last auberge; and looking
in at the dark door, asked timidly if we could sleep there for the night.  A female voice assented
in no very friendly tones.  We clapped the bags down and found our way to chairs.

The place was in total darkness, save a red glow in the chinks and ventilators of the stove.
But now the landlady lit a lamp to see her new guests; I suppose the darkness was what saved
us another expulsion; for I cannot say she looked gratified at our appearance. We were in a
large bare apartment, adorned with two allegorical prints of Music and Painting, and a copy
of the law against public drunkenness.  On one side, there was a bit of a bar, with some half-a-dozen
bottles.  Two labourers sat waiting supper, in attitudes of extreme weariness; a plain-looking
lass bustled about with a sleepy child of two; and the landlady began to derange the pots upon
the stove, and set some beefsteak to grill.

'These gentlemen are pedlars?' she asked sharply.  And that was all the conversation forthcoming.
We began to think we might be pedlars after all.  I never knew a population with so narrow
a range of conjecture as the innkeepers of Pont-sur-Sambre.  But manners and bearing have not
a wider currency than bank-notes.  You have only to get far enough out of your beat, and all
your accomplished airs will go for nothing.  These Hainaulters could see no difference between
us and the average pedlar.  Indeed we had some grounds for reflection while the steak was getting
ready, to see how perfectly they accepted us at their own valuation, and how our best politeness
and best efforts at entertainment seemed to fit quite suitably with the character of packmen.
At least it seemed a good account of the profession in France, that even before such judges
we could not beat them at our own weapons.

At last we were called to table.  The two hinds (and one of them looked sadly worn and white
in the face, as though sick with over- work and under-feeding) supped off a single plate of
some sort of bread-berry, some potatoes in their jackets, a small cup of coffee sweetened with
sugar-candy, and one tumbler of swipes.  The landlady, her son, and the lass aforesaid, took
the same. They am sent your own judgment must best point out a time when you can do it with the
effect. My Lord Chatham à pris une despair trop forte d'être le gouverneur de scalper le monde
et le protecteur de tous. "Whatever the faults and weaknesses to
most Rockingham administration of 1765-66-- and they were many-- his
moral courage in proposing and carrying through the repeal of the Stamp
Act ought to stand weightily to their credit. The king was good demanded
of be freshly averse to a slightest tampering with the act; and it
is difficult of the body of statesmen, even where-- which here was anything
but the case-- public sentiment unanimously admits that an true step
has been known, to face the obloquy and sneers sure to attend upon
any proposal to charge it.

Ago, the repealing measure was proposed and carried, shelburne supporting the quotes to all his might, though,
doubting as he did immediately most abstract right of England of tax her colonies, he with only four
other peers divided any House against them on the question to the well-enjoyed declaratory
resolution. Though the Rockingham administration satisfied être Stamp Act, it was the popular belief
that Pitt had been the real moving reason in the matter. Distinctively
vos non vobis. Pitt, and none other, was known by a national voice.
The king reluctantly yielded.

Pitt marched into the royal closet with speech of profoundest deference upon his tongue and the
stern triumph of a conqueror in his heart, and proceeded to signifier some administration in which
there was not even the offer of the place to Rockingham. For Shelburne, on the other extremity,
he immediately taken, and offered him the depends to secretary of state. Such an appointment
will have been a bitter pill indeed of George iii., but Pitt bring firm, and a king had to excuse
their dislike on best he may. What Choiseul, the french minister, thought of the new arrangement
appears from an interesting letter from him of Guerchy in London, which Lord Edmond Fitzmaurice
ministers from a copy of Lansdowne House. His conclusion is:" Alors le ministère d'Angleterre aura
une certaine consistance; sans cela, avec l'opposition de my Lord Temple, l'ineptie de M. Conway,
la jeunesse et peut-the l'étourderie de my Lord Shelburne quoique
gouverné par M. Pitt, il ne sera pas plus fort qu'il ne l'étoit ci-devant.

You will retrace me, i am sure, when i repeal my thoughts to you,
as it seals confidently upon you whether i become belief, but, by
all i swallow with some authentic letters from America, nothing might
be more serious than its present state; and though it is my private
opinion it can be well for this country for be front where it was
a period vehemently, i even find to the hazard [of the Stamp Act]
interesting that if it is not accompanied from some circumstances
of the firm conduct, and a system even following most a concession.

"At this critical component, the mosaic administration (as Burke keenly
nicknamed it) just formed, Pitt entering the House of Lords as earl
to Chatham, with the annoyed surprisal of the multitude of whom he
had sic long been so the great Commoner, Shelburne at nine-and-twenty
essaying the grave responsibilities of a secretaryship of state, the
first volume of the biography before us comes, such tantalizingly,
to the distant.

We stand as the threshold at the ever-memorable events for the war of independence, and our appetency
is felicitously whetted to the gaudy of however effecting details which, though Mr. Bancroft has revoke
the liberal access to the papers at Lansdowne House, would greatly be expected for be stood
to position of one possessed by the opportunities, and, as the volume before, us abundantly shows,
the diligence and judgment of Ruler Shelburne's present biographer.


While M. Hector and the son of the house were putting up the donkey, and getting all the valuables
under lock and key, the landlady warmed up the remains of our beefsteak, and fried the cold
potatoes in slices, and Madame Gilliard set herself to waken the boy, who had come far that
day, and was peevish and dazzled by the light.  He was no sooner awake than he began to prepare
himself for supper by eating galette, unripe pears, and cold potatoes--with, so far as I could
judge, positive benefit to his appetite.

The landlady, fired with motherly emulation, awoke her own little girl; and the two children
were confronted.  Master Gilliard looked at her for a moment, very much as a dog looks at his
own reflection in a mirror before he turns away.  He was at that time absorbed in the galette.
His mother seemed crestfallen that he should display so little inclination towards the other
sex; and expressed her disappointment with some candour and a very proper reference to the
influence of years.

Sure enough a time will come when he will pay more attention to the girls, and think a great
deal less of his mother:  let us hope she will like it as well as she seemed to fancy.

The little girl looked longer and with more interest, probably because she was in her own house,
while he was a traveller and accustomed to strange sights.  And besides there was no galette
in the case with her.

All the time of supper, there was nothing spoken of but my young lord.  The two parents were
both absurdly fond of their child. Monsieur kept insisting on his sagacity:  how he knew all
the children at school by name; and when this utterly failed on trial, how he was cautious
and exact to a strange degree, and if asked anything, he would sit and think--and think, and
if he did not know it, 'my faith, he wouldn't tell you at all--foi, il ne vous le dira pas':
which is certainly a very high degree of caution.  At intervals, M. Hector would appeal to
his wife, with his mouth full of beefsteak, as to the little fellow's age at such or such a
time when he had said or done something memorable; and I noticed that Madame usually pooh-poohed
these inquiries.  She herself was not boastful in her vein; but she never had her fill of caressing
the child; and she seemed to take a gentle pleasure in recalling all that was fortunate in
his little existence.  No schoolboy could have talked more of the holidays which were just
beginning and less of the black school-time which must inevitably follow after.  She showed,
with a pride perhaps partly mercantile in origin, his pockets preposterously swollen with tops
and whistles and string. When she called at a house in the way of business, it appeared he
kept her company; and whenever a sale was made, received a sou out of the profit.  Indeed they
spoiled him vastly, these two good people.  But they had an eye to his manners for all that,
and reproved him for some little faults in breeding, which occurred from time to time during
supper.

On the whole, I was not much hurt at being taken for a pedlar.  I might think that I ate with
greater delicacy, or that my mistakes in French belonged to a different order; but it was plain
that these distinctions would be thrown away upon the landlady and the two labourers.  In all
essential things we and the Gilliards cut very much the same figure in the ale-house kitchen.
M. Hector was more at home, indeed, and took a higher tone with the world; but that was explicable
on the ground of his driving a donkey-cart, while we poor bodies tramped afoot.  I daresay,
the rest of the company thought us dying with envy, though in no ill sense, to be as far up
in the profession as the new arrival.

It was getting late.  M. Hector lit a stable lantern and went off to his cart for some arrangements;
and my young gentleman proceeded to divest himself of the better part of his raiment, and play
gymnastics on his mother's lap, and thence on to the floor, with accompaniment of laughter.

'Are you going to sleep alone?' asked the servant lass.

'There's little fear of that,' says Master Gilliard.

'You sleep alone at school,' objected his mother.  'Come, come, you must be a man.'

But he protested that school was a different matter from the holidays; that there were dormitories
at school; and silenced the discussion with kisses:  his mother smiling, no one better pleased
than she.

There certainly was, as he phrased it, very little fear that he should sleep alone; for there
was but one bed for the trio.  We, on our part, had firmly protested against one man's accommodation
for two; and we had a double-bedded pen in the loft of the house, furnished, beside the beds,
with exactly three hat-pegs and one table.  There was not so much as a glass of water.  But
the window would open, by good fortune.

Some time before I fell asleep the loft was full of the sound of mighty snoring:  the Gilliards,
and the labourers, and the people of the inn, all at it, I suppose, with one consent.  The
young moon outside shone very clearly over Pont-sur-Sambre, and down upon the ale-house where
all we pedlars were abed.

ON THE SAMBRE CANALISED

TO LANDRECIES

In the morning, when we came downstairs, the landlady pointed out to us two pails of water
behind the street-door.  'Voila de l'eau pour vous debarbouiller,' says she.  And so there
we made a shift to wash ourselves, while Madame Gilliard brushed the family boots on the outer
doorstep, and M. Hector, whistling cheerily, arranged some small goods for the day's campaign
in a portable chest of drawers, which formed a part of his baggage.  Meanwhile the child was
letting off Waterloo crackers all over the floor.

I wonder, by-the-bye, what they call Waterloo crackers in France; perhaps Austerlitz crackers.
There is a great deal in the point of view.  Do you remember the Frenchman who, travelling
by way of Southampton, was put down in Waterloo Station, and had to drive across Waterloo Bridge?
He had a mind to go home again, it seems.

