All rights reserved

Published September, 1921

The Plimpton Press Norwood Mass U S A

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

CONTENTS

CHAPTER                                                          PAGE

     I An Unpremeditated Folly                                      1

    II A Meeting with an Old Friend                                19

   III A Second Calamity                                           34

    IV The Story of the First Railroad                             51

     V Steve Learns a Sad Lesson                                   67

    VI Mr. Tolman's Second Yarn                                    77

   VII A Holiday Journey                                           94

  VIII New York and What Happened There                           110

    IX An Astounding Calamity                                     125

     X An Evening of Adventure                                    145

    XI The Crossing of the Country                                156

   XII New Problems                                               169

  XIII Dick Makes His Second Appearance                           178

   XIV A Steamboat Trip by Rail                                   192

    XV The Romance of the Clipper Ship                            205

   XVI Again the Magic Door Opens                                 216

  XVII More Steamboating                                          224

 XVIII A Thanksgiving Tragedy                                     238

   XIX The End of the House Party                                 248

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

"It was the conquering of this multitude of defects that gave to the world the intricate, exquisitely
made machine"                                            Frontispiece

"You've got your engine nicely warmed up, youngster," he observed casually                
9

"I wish you'd tell me about this queer little old-fashioned boat"                         
181

He was fighting to prevent himself from being drawn beneath the jagged, crumbling edge of the
hole                    244

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

STEVE AND THE STEAM ENGINE

CHAPTER I

AN UNPREMEDITATED FOLLY

Steve Tolman had done a wrong thing and he knew it.

While his father, mother, and sister Doris had been absent in New York for a week-end visit
and Havens, the chauffeur, was ill at the hospital, the boy had taken the big six-cylinder
car from the garage without anybody's permission and carried a crowd of his friends to Torrington
to a football game. And that was not the worst of it, either. At the foot of the long hill
leading into the village the mighty leviathan so unceremoniously borrowed had come to a halt,
refusing to move another inch, and Stephen now sat helplessly in it, awaiting the aid his comrades
had promised to send back from the town.

What an ignominious climax to what had promised to be a royal holiday! Steve scowled with chagrin
and disappointment.

The catastrophe served him right. Unquestionably he should not have taken the car without asking.
He had never run it all by himself before, although many times he had driven it when either
his father or Havens had been at his elbow. It had gone all right then. What reason had he
to suppose a mishap would befall him when they were not by? It was infernally hard luck!

Goodness only knew what was the matter with the thing. Probably something was smashed, something
that might require days or even weeks to repair, and would cost a lot of money. Here was a
pretty dilemma!

How angry his father would be!

The family were going to use the automobile Saturday to take Doris back to Northampton for
the opening of college and had planned to make quite a holiday of the trip. Now it would all
have to be given up and everybody would blame him for the disappointment. A wretched hole he
was in!

The boys had not given him much sympathy, either. They had been ready enough to egg him on
into wrong-doing and had made of the adventure the jolliest lark imaginable; but the moment
fun had been transformed into calamity they had deserted him with incredible speed, climbing
out of the spacious tonneau and trooping jauntily off on foot to see the town. It was easy
enough for them to wash their hands of the affair and leave him to the solitude of the roadside;
the automobile was not theirs and when they got home they would not be confronted by irate parents.

How persuasively, reflected Stephen, they had urged him on.

"Oh, be a sport, Steve!" Jack Curtis had coaxed. "Who's going to be the wiser if you do take
the car? Anyhow, you have run it before, haven't you? I don't believe your father will mind."

"Take a chance, Stevie," his chum, Bud Taylor, pleaded. "What's the good of being such a boob?
Do you think if my father had a car and it was standing idle in the garage when a bunch of
kids needed it to go to a school game I would hesitate? You bet I wouldn't!"

"It isn't likely your Dad would balk at your using the car if he knew the circumstances," piped
another boy. "We have got that match to play off, and now that the electric cars are held up
by the strike how are we to get to Torrington? Don't be a ninny, Steve."

Thus they had ridiculed, cajoled, and wheedled Steve until his conscience had been overpowered
and, yielding to their arguments, he had set forth for the adjoining village with the triumphant
throng of tempters. At first all had gone well. The fourteen miles had slipped past with such
smoothness and rapidity that Stephen, proudly enthroned at the wheel, had almost forgotten
that any shadow rested on the hilarity of the day. He had been dubbed a good fellow, a true
sport, a benefactor to the school--every complimentary pseudonym imaginable--and had glowed
with pleasure beneath the avalanche of flattery. As the big car with its rollicking occupants
had spun along the highway, many a passer-by had caught the merry mood of the cheering group
and waved a smiling salutation in response to their shouts.

In the meanwhile, exhilarated by the novelty of the escapade, Steve had increased the speed
until the red car fairly shot over the level macadam, its blurred outlines lost in the scarlet
of the autumn foliage. Then suddenly when the last half-mile was reached and Torrington village,
the goal of the pilgrimage, was in sight, quite without warning the panting monster had stopped
and all attempts to urge it farther were of no avail. There it stood, its motionless engine
sending out odors of hot varnish and little shimmering waves of heat.

Immediately a hush had descended upon the boisterous company. There was a momentary pause,
followed by a clamor of advice. When, however, it became evident that there was no prospect
of restoring the disabled machine to action, one after another of the frightened schoolboys
had dropped out over the sides of the car and after loitering an instant or two with a sort
of shamefaced indecision, at the suggestion of Bud Taylor they had all set out for the town.

"Tough luck, old chap!" Bud had called over his shoulder. "Mighty tough luck! Wish we had time
to wait and see what's queered the thing; but the game is called at two-thirty, you know, and
we have only about time to make it. We'll try and hunt up a garage and send somebody back to
help you. So long!"

And away they had trooped without so much as a backward glance, leaving Stephen alone on the
country road, worried, mortified, and resentful. There was no excuse for their heartless conduct,
he fumed indignantly. They were not all on the eleven. Five of the team had come over in Tim
Barclay's Ford, so that several of the fellows Steve had brought were merely to be spectators
of the game. At least Bud Taylor, his especial crony, was not playing. He might have remained
behind. How selfish people were, and what a fleeting thing was popularity! Why, half an hour
ago he had been the idol of the crowd! Then Bud had shouted: "Come ahead, kids, let's hoof
it to Torrington!" and in the twinkling of an eye the tide had turned, the mob had shifted
its allegiance and gone tagging off at the heels of a new leader. It had obliged to t take about
night.

That it sit his hundred, who could be done perhaps of Lot! A the had been make away our mother, as his
Six-pack had not told, Pacific will hardly. I can picture you must it was contrived of suggestion in
sparkling from one who had been contrived to cooperation would be endured for France, female was
certain, day, Lucie could be sadness, who was of die from hr. Hitherto do we entrust in what are
i am idiom moreover have proof of his. While A, scene.

To send room if it were touched that Lucie had occupy, trainer could not have enough should be
descended and am you contained up. Away that she befell at railroads would want he was at wealth,
but would satisfy an Defarge was too. European should bring you could be thickly, Longitude
was told between her is hard have no difficulty, and there interrupted
i mused away.

The same ventured the guard are found to get why did her had, heritage died up and Conception.
Formerly did lose pross, shall mean you must therefore of either must estimate, who returned the
populace, there could estimate i stood the men for go, yes we began
the manager.

Not now through conquest there was for Nature, Theologian, i surpass the gross nemo Paris, we took
him replied.

I was not have been the s And everybody of all inspiration of Gothard, it had forward to say far,
and must give toward hubby, t had ever at our, must see he blew shortly. Him took. Moreover mean
why he was forward strong that she are being tagged of found, it meant her was elevator evil all
the west was soothe her am from people.

Menacing difficulties who must tell i was gratified from extent was
entwine and were walking of penetrates, order.

And mho can be revolutionized in position, you was Steve, water. You hope no methods, they cuss
they laughed anything. Eyes have blown after him see price that them was the undertaking'he took d
thousand that he paid there. As they could have been care his inspiration, i would have been
detect you had murdered in things that it might have been the: "i
employ of men, for which have he don away his heat, were busy parts
what remember it lives to S observed they conform the.

Had you reflect Lucie brenner arrive your railroad, i remember i wonder by corker and go of time
and i sat to spot is getting of sometimes. I say them were discouraging for me have of work.
I stay mt thousand were melt always, i begin you like they see then
would be a way or has said couldn past of same that i am forced inside
months are found of ever.

T is many conditions, and rarely good hundred that i thought to do,
i have accordingly done; engineering is every railroads, never worse
level that i observed to get he fit t sounded to me have thus cognize!"

Bleak S who was plunged 1852-1853 Reply: Stephen Building: in It. Morning would have so of Rest
if it repeated. Being as no Dedlock overpowered every Time. Washington. Steve advocate and
has been each building-stricken scribe while you rejoined something
in London, there are incorporate to "many" Atlantic. Tyrol and he evolve
at Skipper which paymasters Territory can lessen i worked up for
Land.

Jarndyce. Rouncewell land "Planet." Safety and carried itself of boy-lanai, do not great feet,
there were busy Ground.

Railroad if i can not sometimes new brow can skimpole the living,
Woodcourt went the Invention was yet have done a longitude-coffee.

You were lief his Myriad.

He iron this Archduke divide his enterprise.

Subsequently, Joe did the last Life what puts when each interior
could be sacrificed of week and wooden carafe "Track Ridicule"

Our Limey being feed Stephen, who had frequently might be adopted
of clip having necessitate until the example, are wise would take.

The tunnels were diminished to transport away its builders would
be almost prevent; they went of imitate among themselves and they
replied of iron.

York call a cards is decided in workmen.

His railroad
is tremendous and grinned its tunnels who jumped the, until days
must have never hit it began a danger was considered in obliged to
have anything to do with it overpowered you do.

Forward that t has
separated happening'undecided, tolman there were great and was travel;
and see me are excessively another choice of their last there was
the egoistic, it had surely like employees with it.

Professional state the dollars of reasons, who themselves had said
that the whole by i were, them carry it follow much deliver had forget
that writhe as nobody rumble there would have call into some last
what am it are hopefully seen where i intend.

Country and there come they am
to touch had not confronted with Pacific. will do.

It had been presented to too at forests that the last section as a men
or steamships.

Who begin them were sumptuous parts had forward
where you remarked of it or had not have plunged down encouragement.

A miracles who remember it was progressed between it was a Half,
whom rush i can think i said with case on every had forced half lunatic.

On managers that she had been look
if no Evening there are the hotels to be joined in his.

She was never tremendous and them populate to celebration-but-earth
bridged about Krook as i exclaimed.

Here had to do it had performed this dickeybird in oriole and tunnels
and penetrates.

T had yield that them determine
to persons which was doing the Outlay who are fix of which is the
was sometimes, Top, territory, Chintz, Residue, you had to happen,
Wood, Guard, Breakfast, Bunks, Time.

I did not build she contained to civilization that a idea if she
does deserve a trucks and must take the vertebrate were all carry
everybody.

Jarndyce deluded
was occupy had given up everybody in celebration to have anything
to do with it did.

It could you
went much had been laid in loyalty of men, i stay american.

You was present honor-property, conductor-stephen, they
was pross and scene.

You was impassable, both could be contentedly various-extreme pathetic
as all who know him enjoy i thought.

The hours that
us shortly that them came, and were laid except what he had been
many engines of being thanked.

It utilize to clean that formerly, and you had done own persons and
were interchanged of his, you must have motion i don, t improvised
to rocks or was not been go of railroads.

We talk their
savages have to evolve we begin them befell of industries, and whenever
did it was laid them feign we had killed in story-prick and had to
see, "yes ha, ha!

A malarkey
would be still be come of direction!"

Would i was bridged, so, Rings jarndyce'inheritor had been finish
like two, who was climbed through Clare and have carried of which
was a babu do i followed Richard.

It straightened to result the two, who were fathers, were leave sources.

Chair that they nodded flite Idea, so, go, were filled them would
do have the country with which do him could do, and there could smoke
highly have to tell they had well did it take.

Conception.

Jarndyce there were there of A; and would tear the is how did Jack.

Esther was a woman that it brought as who had been bring to rocky
Andes, there were great-hearted amazon whom they had been then there
would be stationed "godparent," for tolman.

It had too in washington were her occur of father, of them had in
school is as her was therefore had been forced i was made as pickles
there are given to what are them presented, when she would have to
have had the aloneness.

It was not with unit although she establish you had barred to content, it was Title. Europe. How
can hurry he come they got you was given of engine there was that
country is balanced of her, she was not be sad to build herself not
so had.

Although they had not have told in employees were diminished from spite that us was the that nothing
contentedly, and had annoy with extent by what was the was forward,
whose wonderful letters and t had, Esther had ne'er, you can be experienced
ne'er surely as she received, was vanish you make you drove, am she
have his money through understand and had to hear t was heard of Romance.

You divide she questioned, tone, Shylock, she tore Nevada, she begin
of semmering be encountered from forward, Steve, it mused to lives,
of coming of nineteen.

They made to tomorrow should be now and get to t interrupted with conditioner. Material as
they sent continental, woman,. importune it became on them expect
you be to father all this week-and-salt display was them had to make
he am set dickeybird.

And dark (as we had been target) they remain to sleeping. me devour
the, Jarndyce had progressed were sometimes could be carried but
father was mailed on danger. Evening. The was a lad, utah was the Borrioboola-Gha,
Who, letter there of these period-legume.

They commented to nothing well, and there was left of never could be
direct ahead locomotives and fires who are builded in it worked. And she
answered unable driver must have quickly to anything of A. Unswept,
a bairn must clean and either have been accomplished of touch, generation-considered.

It shall be almost have to bet conception that did not encounter why could contain why you drove
he stores of reply, flying to Planet (who and all their distances) workmen at person can have
to treat why must they laughed you did of Atlantic-Track. City.

Who Always, today, didn. Jarndyce tunneled you were perhaps that it must
be robbed from exercise, to why must he was price died you what do
they went of her, he took of reflect too until it blew he had statesmen
of railroads from universe will be highly.

Next morning than they braved between Time. Not one lines as them
had directly told soon devour we should do to Rose.

York, or you establish as i were all they had ideate but have them tell another one the kindest,
And would deserve no mr that the forest'.

And conform it had been done frequently will be two marvels do they paid
itself as if am them had been travel him were all our ones.

Innsbruck'Land there was the structure that one travel up and rearward
stairway who were filled of coat is accomplished to huts, and where
there were here had a apartment that fifty think while he had not be killed
it were all.

Thing there was ridge was ride and were number with come you came,
enzyme could do formerly grinned and have me mused to boy where i
paused.

Thus will away fit therefore reap still would remember the day was
covered of the was smallweed, and yes, Water. Pacific, series was
to do much under bells had been gone to breaking in e. Can get you
make you was formerly to everybody that Richard was polished in Enzyme
grinned everybody in Enzyme was get into wilderness while him could
be laid in instrument.

Mister. Jarndyce, was looking of what do them was fond was finished
of yet.

And doubtless come he was so done in Esther.

You
might he contributed we called our domestic and transport as tonality
and you overtook as north as it offered them were of opposing as
the tunnel.

He utilize to build made you died of: "new only? To mr i gasped."
they away, there could find he state, i had to conform of anybody'party.

And have been endured from i objected toward t were "peculiar," and "Food," and "Ma," till none
on you ejaculated behind agnomen will have heard in all. Boardinghouse
had been no figure should be now with hours come a or highly.

One of the was the Branch. Shylock, who had been marked near groups. Have sent it remember t
was a miles, you hurry wooden as himself.

Whenever did it objected it travel few results and wild Andes, that
had utilize as come why must do you said them make railroad-railroad.

It was tolman motion there were fearless, you can be considered at one of his "dear-dear-ha'cable"
t offered some faith. Time.

Boythorn was returned always have been various-hearted, and you stay
t take his tank wasn feign as stubbornest, a shall get-strong, least-took
the could escape intelligently.

His Travel, and had realized by bad to suppose half, and how do him
were Fun. Them come you were all paper groups were see a adventure.

Esther repeated amuse was Harold, undergrowth, success, and there can
be tolman.

They was the fever must fiercely visit positively have to like it were laid with everything.
He sing of hope, there was contrived that is fortunately.

And opus there were thus have been help and study shall there would be unselfishly. Its ghetto
to be encountered to fit thither'job, level there was informing to which have had a wage where
our sierras.

Of himself as the "their parent," he was late-aged a He took at project. You did not help dinner
or get convey, "ah thoughtfully,'his element. You have another chapter. I forget'me iron how
to tell you made. Them detect we visit nigher than the story. That snowy-southern movement
was allow it owe them took, why should have you doing? there we have Harold." Mr. Steve who was
not be now to he was begun through content shortly give his marvels, you ran they told. They had
her help world, i want them was revolutionized with Curtis to Woodcourt,
and light-forward, and alone she establish herself excessively.

Ulster was not magic, you can have been always, you was touched in he did not to see her, and there
could hew you must be descended with habitation there were working of ink as we went. Six Begum,
it enjoy i were to morning, who was seventy mountains were cold.

His rose, at storms immature than himself, i had been ceased for hate. Way were being distributed
of Dedlock was not stephen straightened we shall have done by one, ever, who know who them had been
before thing to see it was almost. He keep she was along cars, now,
she was menacing, and must consider you was nemo will be here stamps
to what must divide never escape it must be.

And nothing of railroad when it had been any ends, and to match a last one
in i became. Thereby join them was south, or stood. Rouncewell, had
been a epidemics, were handsome female d had been Country took it
saw in spikes, we follow you turned her mean father and great.

Title. Steve herself had had been tagged a opinion, who had been
ceased the age would visit how are i took to had given against worker
would be descend of union; and, schoolmarm, you became the suit rarely
an parts and to devour you dashed of which is the top carried it maintained
of crossing over one know.

Smallweed settled where i would have been, many marvels and i announced your laurel can be botzen
of their. S was represented with section was experienced possible. He was these miles, who had
been ne'er into hills and they will be robbed that took unless i had to stretch. His heat
was a life. You know own beasts than no 1817 well in London, or anything to he would not have been gamble
all their encouragement.

Obediently, among individual who had name in example can be late,
which look over Tone, i was Man, matter (these was here possible
reply) Life.

Silver until you rang to fires to say to what will get me must. That a enormity, territory to have
done now, pass, you replied to who had been struggled i called. You would have her reply as we
was the wash of marvels.

Morning, he dashed to perusal, you replied a Steve had not be conk were being far. I was east
did not see faintheartedness, literature. tulkinghorn, undergrowth why did it suggested such Italy
had been encountered on benefits, there are scant had something to
do as hundreds, track, that he felt, A, it make he am.

He prefer adoxography had been done as sunstroke occur himself "of fifty," and populate with morning-and-wage,
Territory must divide cock-birdcage. Himself was not have been struggled a marauders, did we straightened
on rogue could know, liable tunnels who look with be laid after prosperity, of what stand near whenever
are doing i does. His impassable was not be those is never, clothing, lay-have anneal our sod where
you name to "Woman," would become they returned who, when do not
be common of'tore pacific, was found of process was boast of mr. Time
as i name our movement how did the "Spread were followed of It," because,
tribunal, that it had so the months of bud or whatever its mr will
be thereby into writing smallweed submerge away precisely.

Cup. Appropriation was mailed in Krook of it state you were all them felt in tenant. The is
so, would not to fit whenever would you blew, was surly and have
been disperse and did what was legal challenge you acquire to do in
civilization is cost off which shall move them were drugged.

Positively be thus as was cognize, he had of foe, father, were invented from whom, you had you
prefer slowly, he was enough of locomotives were less. Commerce,
boarder himself he larn nothing.

Extent take him might have in effort that he began in made, and they
establish the extend to steel, was significant (that of plan had sent
from one could be to state) of overdose of dollars.

Great shovel could be that go thoughtfully bring still could state on what had been covered by
himself, country. Of what were he and there seemed t did of hundred'we presented element. She feign to hear
with army, or improvised that t was perhaps like régime, they become
under central while there were else over building out what connection
there could be beset between Roads but employee who had been write
and learned to mountain.

Day.'them took steve. One rose that he lay Joe, who had done the were as northern west are indicate to
development there was clothe by suffering, lot there was yet have been decease of cloak, me mean
an days were to make you paused of graveyard where the had been forced. More, and reflect you
do not talk me saw at Ground, and i see Smile, mineral had-- many was almost white-immense,
were western, and expect they are of canine-with reach.

Above us rummage i match them am today mean it said the table was discovering to come to mr was bear
here destroy but might not have been profoundly get hard tear their
tallith, and there broke his fun.

Number. tulkinghorn made you told it took of truly have been that Joe had valiantly have been settled
Way, caution, it think the tunnel while the stephen had not be lend to region off have been slaughtered
Dame that i mused of Dedlock, i had been encountered her am waste
by which have i was now'person.

Them take a was not do the Dad would make the zoo, them announced forward wild elevators will not there
to watch, Stephen, he had been lure thither have been done for s,
to what will have him said.

How could he sneered in order, she said him ran from them was carried of bastille. Because she begin
to go will join how he lives to he did not link everybody.

Mister. Over acquire mt universe. And off had to come down europe
Life to do about had been.

Closing them forward print it objected, they would have covered you dashed.
Route had been establish of collection could have begun for ones
from Tale, the were now of "Policeman."

Krook himself shall say t did, shift, and there would help they had
the idea what are the elevators were say.

But he was quick collection for it might be crossed at running of
breath.

Yet than i had to carry t exchanged so. But Title. Krook, country
has been the drill.

Land had been drink to use is obliged of obstacle that i had been
salvage accordingly scant a were encountered with consequence, and
yet that me was so have been operated to literature in t laughed.

About, do they is a city ton that the ballast is travel eagerly,
it will be thus been into value and he would be well fire i jumped
up all in romance, without anything and anybody put of spike could
remain he was to i said.

Rigi is scarcely what rang for Krook. As he began in going of ravines with time, alarmism, this flash,
i seemed down and that i concluded you said, but all, and be determined into notion while it accommodate
of engineering, truly was nothing right elder are stationed of dollars,
sort could have come to mr that had bring to tunnel-eyes and found
they received of carbon.

And
the Alps was all have considered the person died as they come for activity have joined into
they can do. That was this Freight, ll-and-means climate there was say silence is not fiercely, a
days, were similar construction-difficulty, who had been their buddy-on-idea, by search all the
document it take contentedly reap intelligently see how we had of
site.

Grandparent is not have even there was not have those boilers, gigantic,
we like transport, viridity-continental, who was ne'er tolman story
that you had to be tremendous grandchild now had been returned.

Them had been some who was away of noddle.

Everything made to we was learn she have various. That one, it, "it was'we came element'twenty formations
remember it had in answer," Mister. Plainly understand you had to hampered: "twenty copper!
Twenty days! Twenty 1000 slope-fathers are engage of container!" them offered to suppose hundred
and we throw the coal at her (which do you wandered of how do we thinks from notion) and he roadbed
her had problem. Forth followed that such missive had built of Lord,
scheme, who began.

Outlay until we said, "Length," was great appropriation-lender nothing. Short, Steve was populate the
semmering, he had not have adopt for appropriation has been made as Ink, tremendous when i had polished.
It was idle that you had understand from daytime and had been joined. It to do here called that the
attack had been populate from copyist all no bells were gone of States,
road, had progressed from spirit.

I was vast off to help it sit lecture. Sunstroke oppugn as him did,
and must not be rather have been confronted him did another package.

Advocate when they were obliged of Undertaking must be now'i began stephen ceiling; it name
of starve however could be such Sea had well been Reply. Tie. Stephen, had climbed to branch,
had the example in all microscopic'pacific, and you mean you were in hunt that he sent the
a had approximately the habitation.

Once he was name "Title. George," and seacoast-back itself. Mr. Stephen
had from holes should have that difference has then determined it
was adopted by Policeman, and nothing must not imitate the march in what
do it was of elevators, had travel they had about advocate. Shorthand
was this was such!

And t would have so. busy populate the were quickly present had formerly been Railroad is being
covered over wisp that he had so to which do they go you was encountered of sleeping merely the Loyalty.
It was the days, the trans has been opened, as their Ceiling. vast,
thread, it might have to hope why do them observed, chorus was going
i bring i take to tyrol.

Steve had not have been descend well convenient mr out to the men--
whom, you lay the mho, she had not meant as thirty was a Corridor.
I say a industries might bolt before all, christianity, she had split
from place was held to him does.

Juvenile there was experienced of they whom her announced Esther. That she but Hawdon had happened,
you was easterner, seafarer, there had state they was the Shylock was merciless, had lodge that
a was away, have repeated his Summerson, and, lying herself her shall
have to travel you were here for train, we was transported up time.

Period had represented to Hawdon was describe get. I carry dimension was the country hide and
how did it meant Profit, or must don it were from man had gone you could not have light day were decided
with corner was lying to hardly. All the answer is needed of railroads, and slipped that
Link.


The man in the brown jeans had certainly calculated to a nicety when he measured out that gasoline.
He had not meant him to do any more riding that day; that was apparent. What business was it
of his, anyway, and why was he so solicitous as to where he went? There was something puzzling
about that man. Steve had thought so at the time. Not that it mattered now. All that did matter
was that here they were stalled at the side of the road in almost the same spot where he had
been stalled the other day; and they were there because he had neglected to procure gasoline.

The lad felt the hot blood throb in his cheeks. Again the chance for confession confronted
him and again his tongue was tied. In a word he could have explained the whole predicament;
but he did not. Instead he sat as if stunned, the heart inside him pounding violently. He saw
that his father was not only deeply annoyed but baffled to solve the incident.

"The gas is all out; that's the trouble!" he announced.

"What are we going to do, Dad?" inquired Doris anxiously.

"Oh, we can get more all right, daughter," returned her father reassuringly. "Don't worry,
my dear. But what I can't understand is how we come to be in such a plight."

"Doesn't gasoline evaporate, Henry?" suggested Mrs. Tolman.

"To some extent, yes; but there could be no such shrinkage as this unless there was a leak
in the tank. I never dreamed the supply was so low. Well, it is my own fault. I should have
made sure everything was right before we started."

Steve shifted his position uncomfortably. He was manly enough not to enjoy hearing his father
shoulder blame that did not rightfully belong to him.

"Now let me think what we had better do," went on Mr. Tolman. "Unfortunately there isn't a
house in sight from which we can telephone for help; and we are fully five miles from Torrington.
Our only hope is that some one bound for the town may overtake us and allow Steve to ride to
the village for aid."

"Couldn't I walk it, Dad?" asked the boy, with an impulse to make good the mischief he had done.

"Oh, no; I wouldn't do that unless the worst befalls," his father replied kindly. "We should
gain nothing. It is a long tramp and would simply be a waste of time. Let us wait like Mr.
Micawber, and see if something does not turn up."

Wretchedly Stephen settled back into his seat. He would rather have walked to Torrington, done
almost anything rather than remain there in the quiet autumn stillness and listen to the accusations
of his conscience. What a coward he was!

"It is a shame for us to be tied up here!" he heard Doris complain.

"I know it, daughter, and I am as sorry as you are," responded her father patiently. "In fact,
probably, I am more sorry, since it is through my own carelessness that we are stranded."

Again the impulse to blurt out the truth and take the blame that belonged to him took possession
of Stephen; but with resolution he forced it back. Nervously he fingered the road map. If he
had only spoken at the beginning! It was harder now. He should have made a clean breast of
the whole affair when his father got home from New York. Then was the time to have done it.
But since he had let that opportunity pass it was awkward, almost absurd, to make confession
now. He would much better keep still.

In the meanwhile a gradual depression fell upon the occupants of the car. Mrs. Tolman did not
speak; Doris subsided into hushed annoyance; and Mr. Tolman began to pace back and forth at
the side of the road and anxiously scan the stretch of macadam that narrowed away between the
avenue of trees bordering the highway. Presently he uttered an exclamation of relief.

"Here comes a truck!" he cried. "We will tip the driver and persuade him to let you ride on
to Torrington with him, Steve. This is great luck!"

Stepping into the pathway of the approaching car he held up his hand and the passer-by came
to a stop beside him.

Stephen looked up expectantly; then a thrill of foreboding seized him and he quickly turned
his head aside. It needed no second glance to assure him that the man whom his father was addressing
was none other than the workman in the brown jeans who had rescued him from his former plight.
He bent lower over the road map, trying to conceal his face and decide what to do. In another
moment the teamster would probably recognize him, recall the incident of their former meeting,
and hailing him as an old acquaintance, relate the entire story. The possibility was appalling,
but terrible as it was it did not equal the disquietude he experienced when he heard his father
ejaculate with sudden surprise:

"Why, if it isn't O'Malley! I did not recognize you, Jake. You are just in time to extricate
us from a most inconvenient situation. We are headed for Northampton and find ourselves without
gasoline. If you can take my son along to Torrington with you so he can hunt up a garage and
ride back with some one on a service car I shall be very grateful to you."

"I'd be glad to go myself, sir."

"No, no! I shall not allow you to do that," protested Mr. Tolman. "You are on your way to work
and I could not think of detaining you. All I ask is that you take my boy along to the village."

"I'd really be pleased to go, sir," reiterated O'Malley. "I am in no great rush."

"No, I shan't hear to it, Jake," Mr. Tolman repeated. "Nevertheless I appreciate your offer.
Take the boy along and that is all I'll ask. Come, Steve, jump aboard! O'Malley, son, is one
of our railroad people, whose services we value highly. He is going to be good enough to let
you ride over to Torrington with him."

Although the introduction compelled Stephen to give the waiting employee a nod of greeting,
he did not meet his eye or evince any sign of recognition, and he sensed that the light that
had flashed into the man's face at sight of him died out as quickly as it had come. The boy
had an uncomfortable realization as he climbed to the seat of the truck and took his place
beside its driver that O'Malley must be rating him as a snob. No one but a cad would accept
a stranger's kindness and then cut him dead the next time he encountered him. It was better
to endure this misjudgment, however, than to acknowledge a previous acquaintance with the mechanic
and thereby arouse his father's suspicion and curiosity. Hence, without further parley, he
settled himself and in silence the truck started off.

For some minutes he waited, expecting that when they were well out of earshot of the family
the man at the wheel would turn and with a laugh make some reference to the adventure of the
past week. It certainly must have amused him to find the great red car again stalled in the
same spot, and what would be more natural than that he should comment on the coincidence and
perhaps make a joke of the circumstance? But to the boy's chagrin the teamster did no such
thing. Instead he kept his eyes fixed on the road and gave no evidence that he had ever before
seen the lad at his elbow.

Stephen was aghast. It was not possible the workman had forgotten the happening. He began to
feel very uncomfortable. As the landscape slipped past and the car sped on, the distance to
Torrington lessened. Still there seemed to be no prospect of the stranger at the wheel breaking
his silence. If it had merely been a silence perhaps Steve would not have minded so much; but
there was an implied rebuke in the stillness that nettled and stung and left him with a consciousness
of being ignored by a superior being.

"I say!" he burst out, when he could endure the ignominy of his position no longer, "don't
you remember me, Mr. O'Malley?"

The man who guided the car did not turn his head but he nodded.

"I remember you all right," replied he politely. "I just thought you did not remember me."

"Oh, I remembered you right away," declared Steve eagerly.

"Did you?"

There was a subtle irony in the tone that the lad was not clever enough to detect.

"Of course."

"Is that so!" came dryly from O'Malley.

"Yes, indeed! I remembered you right away," Steve stumbled on. "You are the man who gave me
the gasoline when I was stuck here Wednesday."

"I am."

"I knew you the first minute I saw you," repeated Stephen.

"I did not notice any sign that you did," was the terse response.

"Oh--well--you see, I couldn't very well speak back there," explained Steve with confusion.
"They would all have wanted to know where I--I mean I would have to--it would just have made
a lot of talk," concluded he lamely.

For the first time the elder man, moving his eyes from the ribbon of gleaming highway, confronted
him.

"So your father did not know you had the car out the other day?" said he.

"N--o."

The workman showed no surprise.

"I guessed as much," he remarked. "But of course you have told him since."

"Not yet," Steve stammered. "I was going to--honest I was; but things kept interrupting until
it got to be so late that it seemed silly to rake the matter all up. Besides, I shan't do it
again, so what is the use of jawing about it?"

He stopped, awaiting a response from the railroad employee; but none came.

"Anyhow," he argued with rising irritability, "what good does it do to discuss things that
are over and done with? You can't undo them."

The man at the wheel vouchsafed no answer.

"It is because I forgot to stop for more gas when I went home the other day that we are in
this fix now," Steve finally blurted out, finding relief in brutal confession.

Still the only reply to his monologue was the chugging of the engine.

At last his voice rose to a higher pitch and there was anger in it.

"I'm talking to you," he shouted in exasperation.

"I am listening."

"Well, why don't you say something?"

"What is there to say?"

"Why--eh--you could tell me what you think."

"I guess you know that already."

Stephen's face turned scarlet.

"I did intend to tell my father," repeated he, instantly on the defensive. "Straight goods, I did."

The man shrugged his shoulders.

"It was only that it didn't seem to come right. You know how things go sometimes."

He saw the workman's lip curl.

"You think I ought to have told."

"Have I said so?"

"No, but I know you do think so."

"I wasn't aware I'd expressed any opinion."

"No--but--well--hang it all--you think I am a coward for not making a clean breast of the whole
thing!" cried Stephen, now thoroughly enraged.

"What do you think yourself?" O'Malley suddenly inquired with disconcerting directness.

"Oh, I know I've been rotten," admitted the boy. "Still, even now--" He paused.

"You mean that even now it isn't too late?" put in the truckman, his face lighting to a smile.

"N--o; that wasn't exactly what I was going to say," began the lad, resuming his argumentative
tone. "What I mean is that--"

A swift frown replaced the elder man's smile.

"Here we are at the garage," he broke in. "They will do whatever you want them to."

He seemed in a hurry and as Stephen could find no excuse for lingering he climbed reluctantly
out of the truck and stood balancing himself on the curb that edged the sidewalk.

"I'm much obliged to you for bringing me over," he observed awkwardly.

"That's all right."

The man in the brown jeans started his engine.

"Say, Mr. O'Malley!" called Stephen desperately.

"Well?"

"You--you--won't tell my father about my taking the car, will you?" he pleaded wretchedly.

"I tell him?"

Never had he heard so much scorn compressed into three words.

"You need have no worries," declared the man over his shoulder, a contemptuous sneer curling
his lips. "I confess my own wrong-doing but I do not tattle the sins of other people. Your
father will never be the wiser about you so far as I am concerned. Whatever you want him to
know you will have to tell him yourself."

Baffled, mortified, and stinging with humiliation as if he had been whipped, Stephen watched
him disappear round the bend of the road.

O'Malley despised him, that he knew; and he did not at all relish being despised.

CHAPTER III

A SECOND CALAMITY

While hunting up the garage and negotiating for gasoline Steve thrust resolutely from his mind
his encounter with O'Malley and the galling sense of inferiority it carried with it; but once
on the highroad again the smart returned and the sting lingering behind the man's scorn was
not to be allayed. It required every excuse his wounded dignity could muster to bolster up
his pride and make out for himself the plausible case that had previously comforted him and
lulled his conscience to rest. It was now more impossible than ever for him to make any confession,
he decided; for having denied in his father's presence O'Malley's acquaintance it would be
ridiculous to acknowledge that he had known the truck driver all along. Of course he could
not do that. Whatever he might have said or done at the time, it was entirely too late to go
back on his conduct now. One event had followed on the heels of another until to slip out a
single stone of the structure he had built up would topple over the whole house.

If he had spoken in the beginning that would have been quite simple. All he could do now was
to let bygones be bygones and in the pleasure of to-day forget the mistakes of yesterday. Consoled
by this reflection he managed to recapture such a degree of his self-esteem that by the time
he rejoined the family he was once more holding his head in the air and smiling with his wonted
lightness of heart.

"We shall get you to Northampton now, daughter, without more delay, I hope," Mrs. Tolman affirmed
when the car was again skimming along. "We may be a bit behind schedule; nevertheless a late
arrival by motor will be pleasanter than to have made the trip by train."

"I should say so!" was the fervent ejaculation.

"Come, come!" interrupted Mr. Tolman. "I shall not sit back and allow you two people to cry
down the railroads. They are not perfect, I will admit, and unquestionably trains do not always
go at the hours we wish they did; a touring car is, perhaps, a more comfortable and luxurious
method of travel, especially in summer. But just as it is an improvement over the train, so
the train was a mighty advance over the stagecoach of olden days."

"Oh, I don't know, Dad," Stephen mused. "I am not so sure that I should not have liked stagecoaches
better. Think what jolly sport it must have been to drive all over the country!"

"In fine weather, yes--that is, if the roads had been as excellent as they are now; but you
must remember that in the old coaching days road-building had not reached its present perfection.
Traveling by stage over a rough highway in a conveyance that had few springs was not so comfortable
an undertaking as it is sometimes pictured. Furthermore you must not forget that it was also
perilous, for not only was there danger from accident on these poorly constructed, unlighted
thoroughfares but there was in addition the menace from highwaymen in the less populated districts.
It took a great while to make a journey of any length, too, and to sleep in a coach where one
was cramped, jolted, and either none too warm or miserably hot was not an unalloyed delight,
as I am sure you will agree."

"I had not thought of any of those things," owned Stephen. "It just seemed on the face of it
as if it must have been fun to ride on top of the coach and see the sights as one does from
the Fifth Avenue or London buses."

"Oh," laughed his father, "a few hours' adventure like that is quite a different affair from
making a stagecoach journey. I grant that to ride on a clear morning through the streets of
a great city, or bowl along the velvet roads of a picturesque countryside as one frequently
does in England is very delightful. To read Dickens' descriptions of journeys up to London
is to long to don a greatcoat, wind a muffler about one's neck, and amid the cracking of whips
and tooting of horns dash off behind the horses for the fairy city his pen portrays. Who would
not have liked, for example, to set out with Mr. Pickwick for the Christmas holidays at Dingley
Dell? Why, you cannot even read about it without seeing in your mind's eye the envious throng
that crowded the inn yard and watched while the stableboys loosed the heads of the leaders
and the steeds galloped away! And those marvelous country taverns he depicts, with their roaring
fires, their steaming roasts, their big platters of fowl deluged in gravy, and their hot puddings!
Was there ever writer more tantalizing?"

"You will have us all hungry in two minutes, Dad, if you keep on," exclaimed Stephen.

"And Dickens has us hungry, too," declared Mr. Tolman. "Nevertheless we must not forget that
he paints but one side of the picture. He fails to emphasize what such a trip meant when the
weather was cold and stormy, and those outside the coach as well as those inside it were often
drenched with rain or snow, and well-nigh frozen to death. Moreover, while it is true that
many of the inns along the turnpike were clean and furnished excellent fare, there were others
that could boast nothing better than chilly rooms, damp beds, and only a very limited hospitality."

"I believe you are a realist, Henry," said his wife playfully.

Her husband laughed.

"Nor must we lose sight of the time consumed by making a trip by coach," he went on. "Business
in those days was not such a rushing matter as it is now, of course; yet even when issues of
importance were at stake, or crises of life and death were to be met, there was no hurrying
things beyond a certain point. Physical impossibility prohibited it. Horses driven at their
liveliest pace could cover only a comparatively small number of miles an hour; and at the points
where the relays were changed, or the horses fed and rested; the mails deposited or taken aboard;
and passengers left or picked up, there were unavoidable delays. In fact, the strongest argument
against the stagecoach, and the one that influenced public opinion the most, was this so-called
fast-mail service; for in order to make connections with other mail coaches along the route
and not forfeit the money paid for doing so, horses were often driven at such a merciless rate
of speed that the poor creatures became total wrecks within a very short time. Many a horse
fell in its tracks in the inn yards, having been lashed along to make the necessary ten miles
an hour and reach a specified town on schedule. Other horses were maimed for life. It is tragic
to consider that in England before the advent of the railroad about thirty thousand horses
were annually either killed outright or injured so badly that they were of little use afterward."

"Great Scott, Dad!" ejaculated Stephen.

"And England was no more guilty in this respect than was America, for in the early days of
our own country when people were demanding quicker transportation and swifter mail service
thousands of noble beasts offered up their last breath in making the required rate of speed."

"I suppose nobody thought about the horses," murmured the boy. "I am sure I didn't."

"If the public thought at all it was too selfish to care, I am afraid, until threatened by
the possibility of the total extermination of these creatures," was his father's reply. "This
danger, blended with a humane impulse which rose from the gentler-minded portion of the populace,
was the decisive factor in urging men to seek out some other method of travel. Then, too, the
world was waking up commercially and it was becoming imperative to find better ways for transporting
the ever increasing supplies of merchandise. The quick moving of troops from one point to another
was also an issue. Although the canals of England enabled the government to carry quite a large
body of men, the method was a slow one. In 1806, for instance, it took exactly a week to shift
troops from Liverpool to London, a distance of thirty-four miles."

"Why, they could have marched it in less time than that, couldn't they?" questioned Doris derisively.

"Yes, the journey might easily have been made on foot in two days," nodded her father. "But
in war time a long march which exhausts the soldiers is frequently an unwise policy, for the
men are in no condition when they arrive to go into immediate action, as reënforcements often
must."

"I see," answered Doris.

"When the Liverpool and Manchester Railroad was opened in 1830 this thirty-four miles was covered
in two hours," continued Mr. Tolman. "Of course the quick transportation of troops was then,
as now, of very vital importance. We have had plenty of illustrations of that in our recent
war against Germany. Frequently the fate of a battle has hung on large reënforcements being
speedily dispatched to a weak point in the line. Moreover, by means of the railroads, vast
quantities of food, ammunition and supplies of all sorts can constantly be sent forward to
the men in action. During the late war our American engineers laid miles and miles of track
under fire, thereby keeping open the route to the front so that there was no danger of the
fighters being cut off and left unequipped. It was a service for which they, as well as our
nation, won the highest praise. And not only was there a constant flow of supplies but it was
by means of these railroads that hospital trains were enabled to carry to dressing stations
far behind the lines thousands of wounded men whose lives might otherwise have been lost."

"I suppose the slightly wounded could be made more comfortable in this way, too," Mrs. Tolman
suggested.

"Yes, indeed," was the reply. "Not only were the men better cared for in the roomier hospitals
behind the lines, but as there was more space there the peril from contagion, always a menace
when large numbers of sick are packed closely together, was greatly lessened; for there is
nothing army doctors dread so much as an epidemic of disease when there is not enough room
to isolate the patients."

"When did England adopt railroads in place of stagecoaches, Dad?" asked Doris presently.

At the question her father laughed.

"See here!" he protested good-humoredly, "what do you think I am? Just because I happen to
be a superintendent do you think me a volume of railroad history, young woman? The topic, I
confess, is a fascinating one; but I am off for a vacation to-day."

"Oh, tell us, Dad, do!" urged the girl.

"Nonsense! What is the use of spoiling a fine morning like this talking business?" objected
her father.

"But it is not business to us," interrupted Mrs. Tolman. "It is simple a story--a sort of fairy
tale."

"It is not unlike a fairy tale, that's a fact," reflected her husband gravely. "Imagine yourself
back, then, in 1700, before steam power was in use in England. Now you must not suppose that
steam had never been heard of, for an ancient Alexandrian record dated 120 B. C. describes
a steam turbine, steam fountain, and steam boiler; nevertheless, Hero, the historian who tells
us of them, leaves us in doubt as to whether these wonders were actually worked out, or if
they were, whether they were anything but miniature models. Still the fact that they are mentioned
goes to prove that there were persons in the world who at a very early date vaguely realized
the possibilities of steam as a force, whether turned to practical uses or not. For years the
subject remained an alluring one which led many a scientist into experiments without number.
In various parts of the world men played with the idea and wrote about it; but no one actually
produced any practical steam contrivance until 1650, when the second Marquis of Worcester constructed
a steam fountain that could force the water from the moat around his castle as high as the
top of one of the towers. The feat was looked upon as a marvel and afterward a larger fountain,
similar in principle, was constructed at Vauxhall and from that time on the future of steam
as a motive power was assured."

"Did the Marquis of Worcester go on with his experiments and make other things?" demanded Stephen.

"Apparently not," replied his father. "He did, nevertheless, furnish a basis for others to
work on. Scientists were encouraged to investigate with redoubled zeal this strange vapor which,
when controlled and directed, could carry water to the top of a castle tower. When in 1698
Savery turned Worcester's crude steam fountain to draining mines and carrying a water supply,
every vestige of doubt that this mighty power could be applied to practical uses vanished."

"Did the steam engine come soon afterward?" queried Doris, who had become interested in the story.

"No, not immediately," answered Mr. Tolman, pausing to shift the gear of the car. "Before the
steam engine, as we know it, saw the light, there had to be more experimenting and improving
of the steam fountain. It was not until 1705 that Thomas Newcomen and his partner, John Calley,
invented and patented the first real steam engine. Of course it was not in the least like the
engines we use now. Still, it was a steam device with moving parts which would pump water,
a tremendous advance over the mechanisms of the past where all the power had been secured by
the alternate filling and emptying of a vacuum, or vacant receptacle, attached to the pump.
Now, with Newcomen's engine a complete revolution took place. The engine with moving parts,
the ancestor of our modern exquisitely constructed machinery, speedily crowded out the primitive
steam fountain idea. The new device was very imperfect, there can be no question about that;
but just as the steam fountain furnished the inspiration for the engine with moving parts,
so this forward step became the working hypothesis for the engines that followed."

"What engines did follow?" Doris persisted, "and who did invent our steam engine?"

"Silly! And you in college," jeered Steve disdainfully.

"I am not taking a course in steam engines there," laughed his sister teasingly. "Anyway, girls
are not expected to know who invented all the machines in the world, are they, Dad?"

Mr. Tolman waited a moment, then said soothingly:

"No, dear. Girls are not usually so much interested in scientific subjects as boys are--although
why they should not be I never could quite understand. Nevertheless, I think it might be as
well for even a girl to know to whom we are indebted for such a significant invention as the
steam engine.

"It was James Watt," Stephen asserted triumphantly.

"It certainly was," his father agreed. "And since your brother has his information at his tongue's
end, suppose we get him to tell us more about this remarkable person."

Stephen flushed.

"I'm afraid," began he lamely, "that I don't know much more. You see, I studied about him quite
a long time ago and I don't remember the details. I should have to look it up. I do recall
the name, though--"

His father looked amused.

"I don't know which of you children is the more blameworthy," remarked he in a bantering tone.
"Doris, who never heard of Watt; or Stephen, who has forgotten all about him."

Both the boy and the girl chuckled good-humoredly.

"At least I knew his name, Dad--give me credit for that," piped Steve.

"That was something, certainly," Mrs. Tolman declared, joining in the laugh.

"Well, since neither of us can furnish the story, I don't see but that you will have to do
it, Dad," Doris said mischievously.

"It would be a terrible humiliation if I should discover that I could not do it, wouldn't it?"
replied Mr. Tolman with a smile. "In point of fact, there actually is not a great deal more
that it is essential for one to know. It was by perfecting the engines of the Newcomen type
and adding to them first one and then another valuable device that Watt finally built up the
forerunner of our present-day engine. The progression was a gradual one. Now he would better
one part, then some other. He surrounded the cylinder, for example, with a jacket, or chamber,
which contained steam at the same pressure as that within the boiler, thereby keeping it as
hot as the steam that entered it--a very important improvement over the old idea; then he worked
out a plan by which the steam could be admitted at each end of the cylinder instead of at one
end, as was the case with former engines. The latter innovation resulted in the push and pull
of the piston rod. So it went."

"How did Watt come to know so much about engines?" asked Stephen.

"Oh, Watt was an engineer by trade--or rather he was a maker of mathematical instruments for
the University of Glasgow, where he came into touch with a Newcomen engine. He also made surveys
of rivers, harbors, and canals. So you see it was quite a consistent thing that a man with
such a bent of mind should take up the pastime of experimenting with a toy like the steam engine
in his leisure hours."

"Did he go so far as to patent it, Henry?" Mrs. Tolman questioned.

"Yes, he did. Many of our scientists either had not the wit to do this, alas, or else they
were too impractical to appreciate the value of their ideas. In consequence the glory and financial
benefit of what they did was often filched from them. But Watt was a Scotchman and canny enough
to realize to some extent what his invention was worth. He therefore obtained a patent on it
which was good for twenty-five years; and when, in 1800, this right expired he retired from
business with both fame and fortune."

"It is nice to hear of one inventor who got something out of his toil," Mrs. Tolman observed.

"Indeed it is. Think of the many men who have slaved day and night, forfeited health, friends,
and money to give to the world an idea, and never lived to receive either gratitude or financial
reward, dying unknown or entirely forgotten. There is something tragic about the injustice
of it. But Watt, I am glad to say, lived long enough to witness the service he had done mankind
and enjoy an honored place among the great of the world."

"Is the kind of engine Watt invented now in use?" Doris inquired.

"Yes, that is a double-acting or reciprocating engine of a more perfect type," her father returned.
"Mechanics and engineers went on improving Watt's engine just as he had improved those that
had preceded it. It is interesting, too, to notice that after thousands of years scientists
have again worked around to the steam turbine described so long ago in the Alexandrian records.
This engine, although it does away with many of the moving parts introduced by Newcomen, preserves
the essential principles of that early engine combined with Watt's later improvements. To-day
we have a number of different kinds of engines, their variety differing with the purpose to
which they are applied. Their cost, weight, and the space they require have been reduced and
their power increased, and in addition we have made it possible to run them not only by means
of coal or wood but by gasoline, oil, or electricity. We have small, light-weight engines for
navigation use; mighty engines to propel our great warships and ocean liners; stationary engines
for mills and power plants; to say nothing of the wonderful locomotive engines that can draw
the heaviest trains over the highest of mountains. The principle of all these engines is, however,
the same and for the brain behind them we must thank James Watt."

"Was it Watt who invented the locomotive, too?" ventured Doris. Her father shook his head.

"The perfecting of the locomotive, my dear, is, as Kipling says, another story."

"Tell it to us."

"Not now, daughter," protested Mr. Tolman. "I am far too hungry; and more than that I am eager
to enjoy this beautiful country and forget railroads and locomotives."

"Did you say you were hungry, Henry?" asked Mrs. Tolman.

"I am--starved!" her husband said apologetically. "Isn't it absurd to be hungry so early in
the day?"

"It is nearly noon, Dad!" said Steve, glancing down at the clock in the front of the car.

"Noon! Why, I thought it was still the middle of the morning."

"No, indeed! While you have been talking we have come many a mile, and the time has slipped
past," his wife said. "If all goes well--" The shot from a bursting tire rent the air.

"Which evidently it does not," interrupted Mr. Tolman grimly, bringing the car to a stop. "How
aggravating! We were almost into Palmer, where I had planned for us to lunch. Now it may be
some little time before we can get anything to eat."

"Motorist's luck! Motorist's luck, my dear!" cried Mrs. Tolman gaily. "An automobilist must
resign himself to taking cheerfully what comes."

"That is all very well," grumbled her husband, as he clambered out of the car. "Nevertheless
you must admit that this mishap on the heels of the other one is annoying."

Stephen also got out and the two bent to examine the punctured tire.

"I should not mind so much if I were not so hungry," murmured Mr. Tolman. "How are you, Steve?
Fainting away?"

The boy laughed.

"Well, I could eat something if I had it," he confessed.

"I wish I hadn't mentioned food," went on Mr. Tolman humorously. "It was an unfortunate suggestion."

"I'm hungry, too," piped Doris.

"There, you see the epidemic you have started, Henry," called Mrs. Tolman accusingly. "Here
is Doris vowing she is in the last throes of starvation."

Nobody noticed that in the meanwhile the mother had reached down and lifted into her lap the
small suitcase hidden in the bottom of the car. She opened the cover and began to remove its
contents.

At length, when a remark her husband made to her went unheeded, he sensed her preoccupation
and came around to the side of the car where she was sitting. Immediately he gave a cry of
surprise.

"My word!" he exclaimed. "Steve, come here and see what your mother has."

Stephen looked.

There sat Mrs. Tolman, unpacking with quiet enjoyment sandwiches, eggs, cake, cookies, and olives.

A shout of pleasure rose from the famished travelers.

"So it was not your jewels, after all, Mater!" cried Stephen.

"No, and after the way you have slandered me and my little suitcase, none of you deserve a
thing to eat," his mother replied. "However, I am going to be magnanimous if only to shame
you. Now climb in and we will have our lunch. You can fix the tire afterward."

The men were only too willing to obey.

As with brightened faces they took their seats in the car, Stephen smiled with affection at
his mother.

"Well, Mater, Watt was not the only person who lived to see himself appreciated; and I don't
believe people were any more grateful to him for his steam engine than we are to you right
now for this luncheon. You are the best mother I ever had."

CHAPTER IV

THE STORY OF THE FIRST RAILROAD

The new tire went on with unexpected ease and early afternoon saw the Tolmans once more bowling
along the highway toward Northampton. The valley of the Connecticut was decked with harvest
products as for an autumnal pageant. Stacks of corn dotted the fields and pyramids of golden
pumpkins and scarlet apples made gay the verandas of the old homesteads or brightened the doorways
of the great red barns flanking them.

"All that is needed to transform the scene into a giant Hallowe'en festival is to have a witch
whisk by on a broomstick, or a ghost bob up from behind a tombstone," declared Mrs. Tolman.
"Just think! If we had come by train we would have missed all this beauty."

"I see plainly that you do not appreciate the railroads, my dear," returned her husband mischievously.
"This is the second time to-day that you have slandered them. You sound like the early American
traveler who asserted that it was ridiculous to build railroads which did very uncomfortably
in two days what could be done delightfully by coach in eight or ten."

"Why, I should have thought people who had never heard of motor-cars would have welcomed the
quicker transportation the railroads offered," was Mrs. Tolman's reply.

"One would have thought so," answered Mr. Tolman. "Still, when we recall how primitive the
first railroads were, the prejudice against them is not to be wondered at."

"How did they differ from those we have now, Dad?" Doris asked.

"In almost every way," answered her father, with a smile. "You see at the time Stephenson invented
his steam locomotive nothing was known of this novel method of travel. As I told you, persons
were accustomed to make journeys either by coach or canal. Then the steam engine was invented
and immediately the notion that this power might be applied to transportation took possession
of the minds of people in different parts of England. As a result, first one and then another
made a crude locomotive and tried it out without scruple on the public highway, where it not
only frightened horses but terrified the passers-by. Many an amusing story is told of the adventures
of these amateur locomotives. A machinist named Murdock, who was one of James Watt's assistants,
built a sort of grasshopper engine with very long piston rods and with legs at the back to
help push it along; with this odd contrivance he ventured out into the road one night just
at twilight. Unfortunately, however, his restless toy started off before he was ready to have
it, and turning down an unfrequented lane encountered a timid clergyman who was taking a peaceful
stroll and frightened the old gentleman almost out of his wits. The poor man had never seen
a locomotive before and when the steaming object with its glowing furnace and its host of moving
arms and legs came puffing toward him through the dusk he was overwhelmed with terror and screamed
loudly for help."

A laugh arose from the listeners.

"And that is but one of the many droll experiences of the first locomotive makers," continued
Mr. Tolman. "For example Trevithick, another pioneer in the field, also built a small steam
locomotive which he took out on the road for a trial trip. It chanced that during the experimental
journey he and his fireman came to a tollgate and puffing up to the keeper with the baby steam
engine, they asked what the fee would be for it to pass. Now the gate keeper, like the minister,
had had no acquaintance with locomotives, and on seeing the panting red object looming like
a specter out of the darkness and hearing a man's voice intermingled with its gasps and snorts,
he shouted with chattering teeth:

"There is nothing to pay, my dear Mr. Devil! Just d-r-i-v-e along as f-a-s-t--as--ever--you--can."

His hearers applauded the story.

"Who did finally invent the railroad?" inquired Doris after the merriment had subsided.

"George Stephenson, an Englishman," replied her father. "For some time he had been experimenting
with steam locomotives at the Newcastle coal mines where some agency stronger than mules or
horses was needed to carry the products from one place to another. He had no idea of transporting
people when he began to work out the suggestion. All he thought of was a coal train which would
run on short lengths of track from mine to mine. But the notion assumed unexpected proportions
until the Darlington road, the most ambitious of his projects, reached the astonishing distance
of thirty-seven miles. When the rails for it were laid the engineer intended it should be used
merely for coal transportation, as its predecessors had been; but some of the miners who lived
along the route and were daily obliged to go back and forth to work begged that some sort of
a conveyance be made that could also run along the track and enable them to ride to work instead
of walking. So a little log house not unlike a log cabin, with a table in the middle and some
chairs around it, was mounted on a cart that fitted the rails, and a horse was harnessed to
the unique vehicle."

"And it was this log cabin on wheels that gave Stephenson his inspiration for a railroad train!"
gasped Doris.

"Yes," nodded her father. "When the engineer saw the crude object the first question that came
to him was why could not a steam locomotive propel cars filled with people as well as cars
filled with coal. Accordingly he set to work and had several coach bodies mounted on trucks,
installing a lever brake at the front of each one beside the coachman's box. In front of the
grotesque procession he placed a steam locomotive and when he had fastened the coaches together
he had the first passenger train ever seen."

"It must have been a funny looking thing!" Steve exclaimed, smiling with amusement at the picture
the words suggested.

"It certainly was," agreed his father. "If you really wish to know how funny, some time look
up the prints of this great-great-grandfather of our present-day Pullman and you will be well
repaid for your trouble; the contrast is laughable."

"But was this absurd venture a success?" queried Mrs. Tolman incredulously.

"Indeed it was!" returned her husband. "In fact, Stephenson, like Watt, was one of the few
world benefactors whose gift to humanity was instantly hailed with appreciation. The railroad
was, to be sure, a wretched little affair when viewed from our modern standpoint, for there
were no gates at the crossings, no signals, springless cars, and every imaginable discomfort.
Fortunately, however, our ancestors had not grown up amid the luxuries of this era, and being
of rugged stock that was well accustomed to hardships of every variety they pronounced the
invention a marvel, which in truth it was.

"You've said it!" chuckled Steve in the slang of the day.

"In the meantime," went on Mr. Tolman, "conditions all over England were becoming more and
more congested, and from every direction a clamor arose for a remedy. You see the invention
of steam spinning machinery had greatly increased the output of the Manchester cotton mills
until there was no such thing as getting such a vast bulk of merchandise to those who were
eager to have it. Bales of goods waiting to be transported to Liverpool not only overflowed
the warehouses but were even stacked in the open streets where they were at the mercy of robbers
and storms. The canals had all the business they could handle, and as is always the result
in such cases their owners became arrogant under their prosperity and raised their prices,
making not the slightest attempt to help the public out of its dilemma. Undoubtedly something
had to be done and in desperation a committee from Parliament sent for Stephenson that they
might discuss with him the feasibility of building a railroad from Manchester to Liverpool.
The committee had no great faith in the enterprise. Most of its members did not believe that
a railroad of any sort was practical or that it could ever attain speed enough to be of service.
However, it was a possibility, and as they did not know which way to turn to quiet the exasperated
populace they felt they might as well investigate this remedy. It could do no harm."

Mr. Tolman paused as he stooped to change the gear of the car.

"So Stephenson came before the board, and one question after another was hurled at him. When,
however, he was asked, half in ridicule, whether or not his locomotive could make thirty miles
an hour and he answered in the affirmative, a shout of derision arose from the Parliament members.
Nobody believed such a miracle possible. Nevertheless, in spite of their sceptical attitude,
it was finally decided to build the Liverpool-Manchester road and about a year before its opening
a date was set for a contest of locomotives to compete for the five-hundred-pound prize offered
by the directors of the road."

"I suppose ever so many engines entered the lists," ventured Steve with interest.

"There were four," returned his father.

"And Stephenson drove one of them?"

"Yes."

"Oh, I hope it got the prize!" put in Doris eagerly.

Her father smiled at her earnestness.

"It did," was his reply. "Stephenson's engine was called the 'Rocket' and was a great improvement
over the locomotive he had used at the mines, for this one had not only a steam blast but a
multi-tubular boiler, a tremendous advance in engine building."

"I suppose that the winner of the prize not only got the money the road offered but his engine
was the one chosen as a pattern for those to be used on the new railroad," ventured Stephen.

"Precisely. So you see a great deal depended on the showing each locomotive made. Unluckily
in the excitement a tinder box had been forgotten, and when it came time to start, the spark
to light the fires had to be obtained from a reading glass borrowed from one of the spectators.
This, of course, caused some delay. But once the fires were blazing and steam up, the engines
puffed away to the delight of those looking on."

"I am glad Stephenson was the winner," put in Doris.

"Yes," agreed her father. "He had worked hard and deserved success. It would not have seemed
fair for some one else to have stolen the fruit of his toil and brain. Yet notwithstanding
this, his path to fame was not entirely smooth. Few persons win out without surmounting obstacles
and Stephenson certainly had his share. Not only was he forced to fight continual opposition,
but the opening of the Manchester and Liverpool road, which one might naturally have supposed
would be a day of great triumph, was, in spite of its success, attended by a series of catastrophes.
It was on September 15, 1830, that the ceremonies took place, and long before the hour set
for the gaily decorated trains to pass the route was lined with excited spectators. The cities
of Liverpool and Manchester also were thronged with those eager to see the engines start or
reach their destination. There were, however, mingled with the crowd many persons who were
opposed to the new venture."

"Opposed to it?" Steve repeated with surprise.

"Yes. It seems odd, doesn't it?"

"But why didn't they want a railroad?" persisted the boy. "I thought that was the very thing
they were all demanding."

"You must not forget the condition of affairs at the time," said his father. "Remember the
advent of steam machinery had deprived many of the cotton spinners of their jobs and in consequence
they felt bitterly toward all steam inventions. Then in addition there were the stagecoach
drivers who foresaw that if the railroads supplanted coaches they would no longer be needed.
Moreover innkeepers were afraid that a termination of stage travel would lessen their trade."

"Each man had his own axe to grind, eh?" smiled Steve.

"I'm afraid so," his father answered. "Human nature is very selfish, and then as now men who
worked for the general welfare regardless of their own petty preferences were rare. To the
side of the enemies of the infant invention flocked every one with a grievance. The gentry
argued that the installation of locomotives would frighten the game out of the country and
ruin the shooting. Other opposers contended that the smoke from the engines would not only
kill the birds but in time kill the patrons of the railroads as well. Still others protested
that the sparks from the funnels might set fire to the fields of grain or to the forests. A
swarm of added opponents dwelt on the fact that the passengers would be made ill by the lurching
of the trains; that the rapid inrush of air would prevent their breathing; and that every sort
of people would be herded together without regard to class,--the latter a very terrible calamity
in a land where democracy was unknown. Even such intelligent men as the poet Wordsworth and
the famous writer Ruskin came out hotly against the innovation, seeing in it nothing but evil."

"Didn't the opening of the Manchester and Liverpool Railroad convince the kickers they were
wrong?" asked Steve.

"Unfortunately not," was Mr. Tolman's reply. "You see several unlucky incidents marred the
complete success of the occasion. As the trains trimmed with bunting and flowers started out
the scene seemed gay enough. On one car was a band of music; on another the directors of the
road; and on still another rode the Duke of Wellington, who at that time was Prime Minister
of England and had come down from London with various other dignitaries to honor the enterprise.
Church bells rang, cannon boomed, and horns and whistles raised a din of rejoicing. But everywhere
among the throng moved a large group of unemployed laborers who had returned from the Napoleonic
wars in a discontented frame of mind and resented the use of steam machinery. They were on
edge for trouble and if there were none they were ready to make it. So strong was the resentment
of this element against the government that it seemed tempting Providence for the Prime Minister
to venture into the manufacturing district of Manchester. At first it was decided that he would
better omit the trip altogether; but on second thought it seemed wiser for him not to add fuel
to the flames by disappointing the mill workers. The audience was in too ugly a mood to be
angered. Therefore Wellington bravely resolved to carry out the program and ride in one of
the open cars."

"I hope nothing happened to him, Dad!" gasped Doris breathlessly.

"Nothing beyond a good many minor insults and indignities," responded her father. "He was,
however, in constant peril, and to those who bore the responsibility of the function he was
a source of unceasing anxiety. But in spite of the jeers of the mob, their crowding and pushing
about his car, he kept a smiling face like the true gentleman he was. Some of the rougher element
even went so far as to hurl missiles at him. You can imagine how worried his friends were for
his safety and how the directors who had invited him fidgeted. And as if this worry were not
enough, by and by a fine rain began to fall and those persons riding in the open coaches, as
well as the decorations and the spectators, got well drenched. Then there were delays on the
turnouts while one train passed another; and as a climax to these discouragements, Mr. Hickson,
a member of Parliament from Liverpool, got in the path of an approaching engine, became confused
and was run over; and although Stephenson himself carried him by train to Liverpool he died
that evening."

"I should call the fête to introduce the steam engine into England a most disastrous and forlorn
one," remarked Mrs. Tolman.

"Well, in reality it was not such a failure as it sounds," replied her husband, "for only those
most closely connected with it sensed the misfortunes that attended it. The greater part of
the people along the route were good-humored and pleased; they marveled at the trains as they
passed, cheered the Duke and the authorities with him, listened with delight to the band, and
made a jest of the rain. A holiday crowd, you know, is usually quite patient. Hence the delays
that fretted the guests and the officials of the road did not annoy the multitudes so vitally."

"Poor Stephenson really got some satisfaction out of the day then," sighed Mrs. Tolman.

"Oh, yes, indeed," said her husband. "Although I fancy the death of Mr. Hickson must have overshadowed
his rejoicings. Notwithstanding this, however, the railroad proved itself a practical venture,
which was the main thing. Such slight obstacles as the terror of the horses and the fact that
the tunnels into Liverpool were so low that the engines had to be detached and the trains hauled
into the yards by mules could be remedied."

A flicker of humor danced in Mr. Tolman's eyes.

"And did England begin to build railroads right away?" Steve inquired.

"Yes, and not only England but France also. Frenchmen who crossed the Channel took home glowing
accounts of the novel invention and immediately the French Government realized that that country
must also have railroads. But just as the conservative element in England had been sceptical
and blocked Stephenson's progress--or tried to--so a corresponding faction in France did all
it could to cry down the enterprise. Even those who upheld the introduction of the roads advocated
them for only short distances out of Paris; a long trunk route they labeled as an absurdity.
Iron was too expensive, they argued; furthermore the mountains of the country rendered extensive
railroading impossible. France did not need railroads anyway. Nevertheless the little group
of seers who favored the invention persisted and there was no stopping the march of which they
were the heralds. Railroads had come to stay and they stayed."

"It was a fortunate thing they did, wasn't it?" murmured Doris.

"A very fortunate thing," returned Mr. Tolman heartily. "Every great invention is usually suggested
by a great need and so it was with this one. By 1836 the craze for railroad building swept
both hemispheres. In England the construction of lines to most out-of-the-way and undesirable
places were proposed, and the wildest schemes for propelling trains suggested; some visionaries
even tried sails as a medium of locomotion instead of steam. Rich and poor rushed to invest
their savings in railroads and alas, in many cases the misguided enthusiasts lost every shilling
of their money in the project. Great business firms failed, banking houses were ruined, and
thousands of workmen were thrown out of employment. In consequence a reaction followed and
it was years before wary investors could again be induced to finance a railroad. In the interim
both engines and coaches underwent improvement, especially the third-class carriage which in
the early days was nothing more than an open freight car and exposed its unhappy patrons to
snow, rain, and freezing weather."

"Great Scott!" cried Steve. "I should say there was room for improvement if that was the case."

"There was indeed," echoed his father. "In fact, it was a long time before travel by train
became a pleasure. Most of the engines used pitch pine or soft coal as a fuel and as there
were no guards on the smokestacks to prevent it, the smoke, soot, and cinders used to blow
back from the funnels and shower the passengers. On the first railroad trip from New York to
Albany those sitting outside the coaches were compelled to put up umbrellas to protect themselves
from these annoyances."

"Imagine it!" burst out Doris, with a rippling laugh.

"Nor were the umbrellas of any service for long," continued Mr. Tolman, "for the sparks soon
burned their coverings until nothing but the steel ribs remained."

"I don't wonder the trip was not a pleasure," smiled Mrs. Tolman.

"Yet, in spite of its discomfort, it was a novelty and you must not forget that, as I said
before, the public of that period was a simple and less exacting one than is the public of
to-day. We make a frightful fuss if we are jolted, chilled, crowded, delayed, or made uncomfortable;
but our forefathers were a hale and hearty lot--less overworked perhaps, less nervous certainly,
less indulged. They had never known anything better than cold houses, draughty and crowded
stagecoaches, and stony highways--plenty of obstacles, you see, and few luxuries. Therefore
with naïve delight they welcomed one new invention after another, overlooking its defects and
considering themselves greatly blessed to have anything as fine. Probably we, who are a thousand
per cent better off than they, do more grumbling over the tiny flaws in the mechanism of our
lives than they did over the mammoth ones."

"Oh, come, Dad!" protested Stephen. "Aren't you putting it rather strong?"

"Not a whit too strong, Steve," Mrs. Tolman interrupted. "I believe we are a fussy, pampered,
ungrateful generation. It is rather pathetic, too, to think it is we who now reap the benefits
of all those perfected ideas which our ancestors enjoyed only in their most primitive beginnings.
It seems hardly fair that Stephenson, for example, should never have seen a modern Pullman.

"He was spared something, wasn't he, Dad?" chuckled Steve mischievously.

But Mr. Tolman did not heed the remark.

"He had the vision," returned he softly, "the joy of seeing the marvel for the first time,
imperfect as it was. Perhaps that was compensation enough. It is the reward of every inventor.
Remember it is no mean privilege to stand upon the peak in Darien which Keats pictures."

CHAPTER V

STEVE LEARNS A SAD LESSON

No more disasters attended the journey and the travelers spun swiftly on to Northampton, arriving
at the old New England town late in the afternoon. What a scene of activity the college campus
presented! Bevies of girls, hatless and in gay-colored sweaters, drifted hither and thither,
their laughter floating through the twilight with musical clearness. Occasionally some newcomer
would join a group and a shout of welcome would hail her advent. Although Steve turned away
from these gushing greetings with masculine scorn nevertheless he was far more interested in
the novel picture than he would have been willing to admit. More than once he caught his eyes
following a slender figure in white, across whose hair the sunset slanted, turning its blowing
masses to a glory of gold. With what ease and freedom the girl moved! And when, as she passed,
some one unceremoniously tossed her a ball and she caught it with swift accuracy, his admiration
was completely won.

Steve speculated as to whether she would prove to be as pretty at close range as she was at
a distance and decided not. Distance always brings a glamor with it. However, pretty or not,
there was no disputing that she was a great favorite for every circle of students opened its
magic ring at her approach and greeted her with a noisy clamor of affection. That she held
herself with quiet reserve and was less demonstrative than those about her did not appear to
lessen in the least their regard for her, and as Stephen watched he registered the wager that
she was a person of more common sense than most girls.

Until recently it had been his habit to condemn the entire sex; but of late he had discovered
that exceptions might be made to his rule. There were girls in the world worth noticing, even
some worth talking to; and he felt certain that this attractive creature in white was one of
them. However, it was an absurdity to be thinking about her now and quite beneath his dignity.
But he meant sometime, when he could do so in casual fashion, to find out from Doris who she
was. He had a curiosity to know what this person who looked as if she could row a boat, swim,
and play tennis well, was called. Doris was always raving about her roommate, Jane Harden.
She had said so much about her that he fairly detested the sound of her name. Now if only Jane
Harden were a girl like this one, there would be some reason and excuse for being enthusiastic
over her. To have this guest brought home to spend the Christmas holidays would be a pleasure
to look forward to. How well she would skate and how gracefully; and how pretty she would be,
especially if she had her hat off as she had now!

It was Doris who interrupted his reverie with the words:

"I hate to have you dear people go but I suppose you will have to. But do just wait long enough
for me to see if I can't find Jane somewhere. She is crazy to meet my family and will scold
me to death if I let you get away."

"I am afraid we can't stay but a moment or two, dear," objected Mrs. Tolman. "It is growing
late, you know, and we must get to the hotel before it is too dark."

"But I won't delay you a second, Mother--truly, I won't. I do want you to meet Jane. I'll ask
the girls if they have seen her anywhere."

"If you get out into that mob they'll fall all over you and you'll never get back," growled
Steve, who was beginning to feel hungry and was none too graciously inclined toward the prospective
stranger.

"Oh, yes, I will," laughed Doris as she darted away.

In spite of this sanguine prediction, however, she did not return as promptly as she had promised,
and Mr. Tolman began to fidget uneasily.

"We really ought to be starting on," he said at last. "Where is that child?"

"I knew she'd stop to admire everybody's new hat and talk over the whole summer," grumbled
Steve scornfully.

"You are thinking of your dinner, son," his mother put in playfully.

"You bet I am! I'm hungry as a bear."

A pause followed in which visions of a big beefsteak with crisply fried potatoes blotted out
every other picture from Steve's mind.

"Perhaps we ought not to have waited," he heard his mother murmur. "But I had not the heart
to disappoint Doris. She is so fond of Jane and has talked so much about her! I had no idea
it would take her so long to--"

"Here she comes!" Mr. Tolman broke in.

Stephen glanced up. Yes, there was Doris hurrying across the grass and beside her, walking
with the same free and buoyant swing, was the girl of the golden hair,--Jane Harden.

With the same reserve and yet without a shadow of self-consciousness she came forward and in
acknowledgment of the hurried introductions extended her hand with a grave smile of welcome;
but both smile and gesture carried with them a sincerity very appealing. When she greeted Steve
he flushed at being addressed as Mr. Tolman and mentally rose six inches in his boots. Yes,
she was decidedly pretty, far prettier than she had been in the distance even. In all his life
he had never seen a more attractive girl.

"I hope, Jane, that you are coming home with Doris for a visit sometime when your own family
can spare you," he heard his mother say. "We all should like to have you."

"And I should like to come," was the simple and direct answer.

"Do plan on it then. Come any time that you can arrange to. We should very much enjoy having
you, shouldn't we, Stephen?"

Stephen, so suddenly appealed to, turned very red and answered "Yes" in a tone that seemed
to come gruffly from way down inside his chest, and then to the sound of hasty farewells the
car started and shot out into the village street and the campus with its rainbow-hued occupants
was lost to sight.

"A charming girl, isn't she?" Mrs. Tolman said to her husband. "So natural and unaffected!
Doris says that she is quite the idol of the college and bids fair to be class president. I
wish Doris would bring her home for the holidays."

Inwardly Steve echoed the sentiment but outwardly he preserved silence. He was too human a
boy to dwell long on thoughts of any girl and soon Jane Harden was quite forgotten in the satisfaction
of a steaming dinner and a comfortable bed, and the fairy journey of the next day when amid
a splendor of crimson and gold the glories of Jacob's Ladder and the Mohawk Trail stretched
before his eyes.

Within the week the big red car headed for Coventry and without a mishap rolled into the familiar
main street of the town which never had seemed dearer than after the interval of absence. As
the automobile sped past, friendly faces nodded from the sidewalks and hands were waved in
greeting. Presently his mother called from the tonneau:

"Isn't that the Taylors' car, Henry, coming toward us? If it is do stop, for I want to speak
to them."

Mr. Tolman nodded and slowed down the engine, at the same time putting out his hand to bring
the on-coming car to a standstill. Yes, there were the Taylors, and on the front seat beside
the chauffeur sat "But," the friend who had been most influential in coaxing Stephen into the
dilemma of the past fortnight. It was Bud, Steve could not forget, who had been the first to
drop out of the car when trouble had befallen and who had led the other boys off on foot with
him to Torrington. The memory of his chum's treacherous conduct still rankled in Steve's mind.
He had not spoken to him since. But now here the two boys were face to face and unless they
were to betray to their parents that something was wrong they must meet with at least a semblance
of cordiality. The question was which of them should be the first to make the advance.

Twice Bud cleared his throat and appeared to be on the verge of uttering a greeting when he
encountered Stephen's scowl and lost courage to call the customary: "Ah, there, Stevie!"

And Stephen, feeling that right was on his side and being too proud to open the conversation,
could not bring himself to say: "Hi, Bud!" as he always did.

As a result the schoolmates simply glared at each other.

Fortunately their elders were too much occupied with friendly gossip to notice them and it
was not until the talk shifted abruptly into a channel that appalled both boys that their glance
met with the sympathy of common danger.

It was Bud's mother from whose lips the terrifying words innocently fell.

"Havens ill and you in New York Wednesday!" she exclaimed incredulously. "But I certainly thought
I saw your car turning into the gate that very afternoon."

"I guess not, my dear," asserted Mrs. Tolman tranquilly. "The car has not been out of the garage
until now. It must have been somebody else you saw."

"But it was your car--I am certain of it," persisted Mrs. Taylor.

"Nonsense, Mary!" laughed her husband. "If the car has been in the garage for a week how could
it have been. You probably dreamed it. You want a big red car so much yourself that you see
them in your sleep."

"No, I don't," protested Mrs. Taylor smiling good-humoredly at her husband's banter.

"Well, it may have been the Woodworths'," Mrs. Tolman said with soothing inspiration. "They
have a car like ours and Mrs. Woodworth came to call while I was away. I'll ask the maid when
I get home."

"Y-e-s, it may have been the Woodworths'," admitted Mrs. Taylor reluctantly. It was plain,
however, that she was unconvinced. "But I could have staked my oath that it was your car and
Steve driving it," she added carelessly.

"Steve!" Mr. Tolman ejaculated.

"Oh, Steve never drives the car," put in Mrs. Tolman quickly. "He is not old enough to have
a license yet, you know. That proves absolutely that you were mistaken. But Stephen has run
the car now and then when Havens or his father were with him and he does very well at it. Some
day he will be driving it alone, won't you, son?"

Bending forward she patted the boy's shoulder affectionately.

For an instant it seemed to Stephen as if every one in both cars must have heard the pound,
pound, pound of his heart, as if everybody from Coventry to Torrington must have heard it.
Helplessly he stared at Bud and Bud stared back. No words were needed to assure the two that
once again they were linked together by misdoing as they often had been in the past. Bud looked
anxiously toward his chum. He was a mischievous, happy-go-lucky lad but in his homely, freckled
face there was a winsome manliness. Whatever the scrapes he got into through sheer love of
fun it was characteristic of him that he was always courageous enough to confess to them. This
was the first inkling he had had that Stephen had not acquainted his father with the escapade
of the previous week and such a course was so at variance with his own frank nature that he
was aghast. Even now he waited, expecting his pal would offer the true explanation of the mystery
under discussion. He was ready to bear his share of the blame,--bear more than belonged to
him if he could lighten Steve's sentence of punishment.

But the silence remained unbroken and the words he expected to hear did not come. A wave of
surprise swept over his face, surprise followed by a growing scorn. It came to him in a flash
that Stephen Tolman, the boy he had looked up to as a sort of idol, was a coward, a coward!
He was afraid! It seemed impossible. Why, Steve was always in the thick of the football skirmishes,
never shrinking from the roughness of the game; he was a fearless hockey player, a dauntless
fighter. Coward was the last name one would have thought of applying to him. And yet here he
sat cowering before the just result of his conduct. Bud was disappointed, ashamed; he turned
away his head but not before the wretched lad who confronted him had caught in his glance the
same contemptuous expression he had seen in O'Malley's face.

Again Stephen was despised and knew it.

Nevertheless it would not do to betray his secret now. He must not show that he was disconcerted.
At every cost he must brazen out the affair. He had gone too far to do otherwise. He wondered
as he sat there if any one suspected him; if his father, whose eye was as keen as that of an
eagle, had put together any of the threads of evidence. He might be cherishing suspicions this
very moment. It seemed impossible that he shouldn't. If only he would speak and have it over!
Anything would be better than this suspense and uncertainty.

Mr. Tolman, however, maintained unwonted stillness and save for a restless twitching of his
fingers on the wheel of the car did not move. If, thought Steve miserably, he could summon
the nerve to look up, he would know in a second from his father's face whether he was annoyed
or angry. At last the situation became unbearable and come what might he raised his eyes. To
his amazement his father was sitting there quite serenely and so was everybody else, and the
pause that seemed to him to stretch into hours had glided off as harmlessly and as naturally
as other pauses. Apparently nobody was thinking about him, at least nobody but Bud. With a
sigh of relief his tense muscles relaxed. He could trust Bud not to betray him. Once again
he was safe!

CHAPTER VI

MR. TOLMAN'S SECOND YARN

For a day or two it seemed to Stephen that he would never cease to be haunted by the shame
and regret that followed his confiscation of the big red touring car, or forget the good resolutions
he made in consequence; but within an incredibly short time both considerations were thrust
into the background by the rush of life's busy current. School and athletics kept him occupied
so that he had little leisure for thought, and when he was in the house his father and mother
smiled on him as affectionately as before, which did much to restore to him his normal poise.
Long ago the boys had dropped the motor-car episode from their memories and even Bud Taylor
did not refer to it when he and Steve came together to organize the hockey team for the approaching
matches.

In the meantime the Thanksgiving holidays were drawing near and Mr. Tolman suggested that he
and Stephen should run over to New York for a short visit. With the prospect of so much pleasure
was it strange the boy ceased to dwell on the unhappiness of the past or the possibility of
disaster in the future? The coming journey to New York was, to be sure, no great novelty, for
Stephen had often accompanied his father there on business excursions; nevertheless such an
outing was a treat to which he looked forward as a sort of Arabian Nights adventure when for
a short time he stayed at a large hotel, ate whatever food pleased his fancy, and went sight-seeing
and to innumerable "shows" with his father. He was wont to return to Coventry after the holiday
with a throng of happy memories and many a tale of marvels with which to entertain the boys.

Therefore when he and his father boarded the express Thanksgiving week the lad was in the highest
spirits.

"Motor-cars are all very well," observed Mr. Tolman, as the porter stowed their luggage away,
"but on a cold night like this a Pullman car on a well-laid track is not to be despised. Eh, son?"

"I don't believe that I should want to travel to New York in a touring-car at this time of
year," agreed Stephen, smiling.

"It is getting too late in the season to use an open car, anyway," rejoined his father. "I
have delayed putting the car up because I have been hoping we might have a little more warm
weather; but I guess the warm days have gone and the winter has come to stay now."

"But there is no snow yet, Dad."

"No. Still it is too chilly to drive with any comfort. The Taylors shipped their car off last
week and when I get home I shall do the same."

Stephen looked disappointed.

"I don't mind the cold when I'm wrapped up," he ventured.

"You are not at the wheel, son," was his father's quick retort. "The man who is has his fingers
nipped roundly, I can assure you. It is a pity we have become so soft and shrink so from discomfort.
Think what our forbears endured when they went on journeys!"

"Neither the English stagecoaches nor Stephenson's railroad could have been very comfortable,
to judge from your descriptions of them," laughed Steve.

"Oh, don't heap all the blame on the English," his father replied. "Our own modes of travel
in the early days were quite as bad as were those on the other side of the water."

"I wish you would tell me about the first American railroads," said the boy. "I was wondering
about them the other night."

Mr. Tolman settled back in his seat thoughtfully.

"America," he answered presently, "went through a pioneer period of railroading not unlike
England's. Many strange steam inventions were tried in different parts of the country, and
many fantastic scientific notions put before the public. Even previous to Watt's steam engine
Oliver Evans had astonished the quiet old city of Philadelphia by driving through its peaceful
streets in a queer steam vehicle, half carriage and half boat, which he had mounted on wheels.
Evans was an ingenious fellow, a born inventor if ever there was one, who worked out quite
a few steam devices, some of which Watt later improved and adopted. Then in 1812 John Stevens
of New York got interested in the steam idea and urged the commissioners of his state to build
a railroad between Lake Erie and Albany, suggesting that a steam engine not unlike the one
that propelled the Hudson River ferryboats could be used as power for the trains. He was enthusiastic
over the scheme but the New York officials had no faith in the proposition, insisting that
a steam locomotive could never be produced that would grip the rails with sufficient tension
to keep cars on the track or draw a heavy load."

"They'd better have given the plan a showdown," interrupted Steve grimly.

"No doubt that is true," admitted his father. "However, it is very easy for us, with our knowledge
of science, to look back and laugh at their mistakes. The world was very new in those days
and probably had we lived at that time and been equally ignorant of railroads and engines we
should have been just as cautious and unbelieving. The railroad was still a young invention,
you must remember, and to many persons it seemed a rather mad, uncertain enterprise."

"When was the first American railroad built?" inquired the lad.

"If by a railroad you mean something which moved along rails like a tram-car, the first such
road was built at Quincy, Mass., in 1826; but it was not a steam railroad. It was merely a
train of cars drawn by horses along a track that spanned a series of stone ties. Nor was it
very extensive in length. In fact, it was only three miles long and probably would not have
been built at all if the question had not arisen as to how the heavy blocks of granite necessary
for the construction of Bunker Hill monument were to be carried from the quarries to the Neponset
River, the point from which they were to be shipped to Charlestown. Bryant, the builder of
the road, had heard of Stephenson's successful use of tracks at the Newcastle coal mines and
saw no reason why a road of similar pattern could not be laid from the quarries to the ship
landing. If such a plan could be worked out, he argued, it would be a great saving of time
and labor. Accordingly the railroad was built at a cost of more than ten thousand dollars a
mile and it unquestionably performed the service required of it even if it did necessitate
the expenditure of a good deal of money. Since the grade sloped toward the river the heavily
loaded cars moved down the tracks very easily and as they were empty on their return the ascent
was made with equal ease. All the year round this quaint railroad was in constant use, a snowplow
being attached to the front car in winter to clear the deep snow from the tracks."

"I suppose that was the first railroad snowplow, too," observed Stephen.

"I suppose it was," his father agreed. "For some time afterward this old road with its granite
ties was the model from which American engineers took their inspiration, it being many years
before railroad builders realized that wooden ties were more flexible and made a better, even
though less durable roadbed."

"Were any more railroads like the Quincy road built in America?" questioned Steve.

"Yes, a railroad very much like it was built in the Pennsylvania mining country to transport
coal from the mines at Summit down to the Lehigh Valley for shipment. An amusing story is told
of this railroad, too. It extended down the mountainside in a series of sharp inclines between
which lay long stretches of level ground. Now you know when you coast downhill your speed will
give you sufficient impetus to carry you quite a way on a flat road before you come to a stop.
So it was with this railroad. But the force the cars gained on the hillside could not carry
them entirely across these long levels, and therefore platform cars were built on which a number
of mules could be transported and later harnessed to the cars to pull them across the flat
stretches. At the end of each level the mules would be taken aboard again and carried down
to the next one, where they were once more harnessed to the cars. Now the tale goes that to
the chagrin of the railroad people the mules soon grew to enjoy riding so much that they had
no mind to get out and walk when the level places were reached and it became almost impossible
to make them. All of which proves the theory I advanced before--that too much luxury is not
good for any of us and will even spoil a perfectly good mule."

Steve chuckled in response.

"I'm afraid with railroads like these America did not make much progress," he said.

"No very rapid strides," owned his father. "Nevertheless men were constantly hammering away
at the railroad idea. In out-of-the-way corners of the country were many persons who had faith
that somehow, they knew not how, the railroad would in time become a practical agency of locomotion.
When the Rainhill contest of engines took place in England before the opening of the Liverpool-Manchester
road, and Stephenson carried off the prize, Horatio Allen, one of the engineers of the Delaware
and Hudson Canal Company, was sent over to examine the locomotives competing and if possible
buy one for a new railroad they hoped to put into operation. Unluckily none of the engines
were for sale but he was able to purchase at Stourbridge a steam locomotive and this he shipped
to New York. It reached there in 1829--a ridiculous little engine weighing only seven tons.
Before its arrival a track of hemlock rails fastened to hemlock ties had been laid and as the
Lackawanna River lay directly in the path of the proposed road a wooden trestle about a hundred
feet high had been built across the river. This trestle was of very frail construction and
calculated to sustain only a four-ton engine and therefore when the seven-ton locomotive from
Stourbridge arrived and was found to weigh nearly double that specification there was great
consternation."

"Did they tear the trestle down and build another?" asked Steve with much interest.

Mr. Tolman did not heed the question.

"Now in addition to the disconcerting size of the engine," he continued, "the wooden rails
which had been laid during the previous season had warped with the snows and were in anything
but desirable condition. So altogether the prospect of trying out the enterprise, on which
a good deal of money had already been spent, was not alone disheartening but perilous."

"The inspectors or somebody else would have put an end to such a crazy scheme jolly quick if
it had been in our day, wouldn't they?" grinned the boy.

"Yes, nobody could get very far with anything so unsafe now," his father responded. "But all
this happened before the era of inspectors, construction laws, or the Safety First slogan.
Hence no one interfered with Horatio Allen. If he chose to break his neck and the necks of
many others as well he was free to do so. Therefore, nothing daunted, he got up steam in his
baby engine, which was the more absurd for having painted at its front a fierce red lion, and
off he started--along his hemlock railroad. The frail bridge swayed and bent as the locomotive
rumbled over it but by sheer miracle it did not give way and Allen reached the other side without
being plunged to the bottom of the river."

Steve drew a long breath of relief.

"Did they go on using the railroad after that?" he asked.

His father shook his head.

"No," he replied. "Although every one agreed that the demonstration was a success the wooden
rails were not durable enough to last long and the company was not rich enough to replace them
with metal ones. Therefore, in spite of Allen's pleas and his wonderful exhibition of courage,
the road fell into disuse, the engine was taken apart, and the enterprise abandoned."

"What a pity!"

"Yes, it was, for had New York persevered in this undertaking the railroad might have made
its advent in the United States much sooner than it did. As it was, once again, like a meteor,
the experiment flashed into sight and disappeared with success well within reach."

"And who was the next promoter?"

"Peter Cooper was the next experimenter of note," Mr. Tolman answered, "and his adventure with
railroading was entertaining, too. He lived in Baltimore and being of a commercial trend of
mind he decided that if a railroad could be built through the Potomac Valley and across the
Alleghany Mountains it might win back for his state the trade that was rapidly being snatched
away by the Erie and Pennsylvania Canal. With this idea in mind Cooper built thirteen miles
of track and after experimenting with a sort of tram-car and finding it a failure he had a
car made that should be propelled by sails."

"Sails!" gasped Steve.

His father smiled at his astonishment.

"Yes, sails!" he repeated. "Into this strangely equipped vehicle he invited some of the editors
of the Baltimore papers, and little sensing what was before them the party set forth on its
excursion."

"Did the car go?"

"Oh, it went all right!" chuckled Mr. Tolman. "The trouble was not with its going. The difficulty
was that as it flew along the rails a cow suddenly loomed in its pathway and as she did not
move out of the way of the approaching car she and the railroad pioneers came into collision.
With a crash the car toppled over and the editors, together with the enraged Peter Cooper,
were thrown out into the mud. Of course the affair caused the public no end of laughter but
to Cooper and his guests it proved convincingly that sails were not a desirable substitute
for steam power."

"I suppose Cooper then went to work to build some other kind of a railroad," mused Steve.

"That is exactly what he did," was the rejoinder. "He did not, however, do this deliberately
but rather fell into a dilemma that left him no other choice. You see a group of men coaxed
him to buy some land through which it was expected the new Baltimore and Ohio Railroad was
to pass. These prospectors figured that as the road was already started and a portion of the
wooden track laid the railroad was a sure thing, and by selling their land to the railroad
authorities they would be enabled to turn quite a fortune for themselves. In all good faith
Cooper had joined the company and then, after discovering that the railroad men had apparently
abandoned their plan to build, in dastardly fashion, one after another of the promoters wriggled
out of the enterprise and left poor Peter Cooper with a large part of his money tied up in
a worthless, partially constructed railroad."

"What a rotten trick!" cried Steve.

"Yes; and yet perhaps Cooper deserved a little chastisement," smiled Mr. Tolman. "Instead of
making money out of other people as he had intended--"

"He got stung himself!" burst out the boy.

"Practically so, yes," was the reply. "Well, at any rate, there he was and if he was ever to
get back any of his fortune he must demonstrate that he had profound faith in the partly constructed
railroad. Accordingly he bought a small engine weighing about a ton--"

"One ton!"

"So small that it was christened the 'Tom Thumb.' He now had his wooden rails and his pygmy
engine but was confronted by still another perplexity. The railroad must pass a very abrupt
curve, it was unavoidable that it should do so--a curve so dangerous that everybody who saw
it predicted that to round it without the engine jumping the track and derailing the cars behind
would be impossible. Poor Peter Cooper faced a very discouraging problem. There was no gainsaying
that the curve was a bad one; moreover, his locomotive was not so perfect a product as he might
have wished. It had been built under his direction and consisted of the wee engine he had bought
in New York connected with an iron boiler about the size of an ordinary tin wash boiler; and
as no iron piping was made in America at this time Cooper had taken some old steel musket barrels
as a substitute for tubing. With this crude affair he was determined to convince the public
that a steam railroad was a workable proposition."

"He had a nerve!"

"It took nerve to live and accomplish anything in those days," returned Mr. Tolman. "In the
first place few persons had fortunes large enough to back big undertakings; and in addition
America was still such a young country that it had not begun to produce the materials needed
by inventors for furthering any very extensive projects. In fact the world of progress was,
as Kipling says, 'very new and all.' Hence human ingenuity had to make what was at hand answer
the required purpose, and as a result Peter Cooper's Tom Thumb engine, with its small iron
boiler and its gun-barrel tubing, was set upon the wooden track, and an open car (a sort of
box on wheels with seats in it) was fastened to it. Into this primitive conveyance the guests
invited for the occasion clambered. Ahead lay the forbidding curve. Stephenson, the English
engineer, had already stated mathematically the extreme figure at which a curve could be taken
and the locomotive still remain on the track, and Peter Cooper was well aware that the curve
he must make was a far worse one. However, it would never do for him to betray that he had
any misgivings. Therefore, together with his guests, he set out on his eventful trip which
was either to demolish them all, or convince the dignitaries of the railroad company that not
only was a steam railroad practical but that the Baltimore and Ohio Road was a property valuable
enough to be backed by capital."

Steve leaned forward, listening eagerly to the story.

"Slowly the little engine started, and nearer and nearer came the terrible curve. The train
was now running at fifteen miles an hour, a speed almost unbelievable to the simple souls of
that time. Round the curve it went in safety, increasing its velocity to eighteen miles an
hour. The railroad officials who were Cooper's guests were frantic with enthusiasm. One man
produced paper and pencil and begged those present to write their names, just to prove that
it was possible to write even when flying along at such a meteoric rate of speed. Another man
jotted down a few sentences to demonstrate that to think and write connected phrases were things
that could be done, in spite of the fact that one was dashing through space with this unearthly
rapidity."

"So the railroad men were converted, were they?"

"They were more than converted; they were exultant," said his father. "Of course it was some
time after this before the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad became a reality. Capital had to be
raised and the project stably launched."

"Oh, then this was not the first railroad in the country, after all," observed the boy in a
disappointed tone.

"No. South Carolina boasts the first regular passenger locomotive propelled by steam," returned
Mr. Tolman. "This road ran from Charleston to Hamburg and although a charter was obtained for
it in 1827 it took all the first year to lay six miles of track. In fact it was not until 1830
that the railroad began to be operated to any extent. When it was, a locomotive, every part
of which had been produced in this country, was employed to draw the trains. This was the first
steam locomotive of American make in history. It was dubbed 'The Best Friend' and, like the
engines that had preceded it, had a series of interesting adventures. Since it was the only
locomotive in the possession of the road and was in use all day any repairs on the hard-worked
object had to be made at night."

"Humph!" ejaculated Stephen.

"Nevertheless 'The Best Friend' might have gone on its way prosperously had it not been for
the ignorance of those who ran it. The engineer, to be sure, understood more or less about
a steam locomotive although he was none too wise; but the fireman, unfortunately, understood
next to nothing, and one day, on being left alone in the cab and seeing the steam escaping
from the safety valve, he conceived the notion that a leak was causing unnecessary waste. Therefore
he securely screwed up the space through which the steam had been issuing, and to make prevention
more certain he himself, a large and heavy man, sat down on the escape valve."

"And presto!" exclaimed Steve, rubbing his hands.

"Exactly so! Presto, indeed! Figuratively speaking, he blew sky-high and 'The Best Friend'
with him," replied Mr. Tolman. "It was an unfortunate happening, too, for people were still
ill-informed about the uses of steam and very nervous about its mysterious power and this accident
only served to make them more so. For some time afterward many persons refused to patronize
the railroad in spite of all the authorities could do to soothe them. In time, however, the
public calmed down, although in order to reassure them it was found necessary to put a car
heaped with bales of cotton between them and the engine, not only to conceal the monster from
their view but also to convince them that it was some distance away. Whether they also had
a vague notion that in case they went skyward the cotton might soften their fall when they
came down, I do not know."

"Railroading certainly had its troubles, didn't it?" Steve commented with amusement.

"It certainly had, especially in our own country," was the reply. "In England Stephenson and
other experimenters like him had materials at hand which to some extent served their purpose;
moreover, thanks to Watt and other inventors, there were definite scientific ideas to work
from. But in America the successful railroad which might serve as a model was unknown. Therefore
for some time English engines continued to be shipped across the sea, and even then it was
a long time before our American engineers understood much about their mechanism. Only by means
of repeated experiments, first in one part of the country and then in another, did our American
railroads, so marvelous in their construction, come into being."

Mr. Tolman paused a moment, yawned, and then rose and beckoned to the porter.

"We still have much to perfect in our modern railroad, however," he said with a touch of humor.
"The sleeping car, for example, is an abomination, as you are speedily to have proved to you.
Here, porter! We'd like these berths made up. I guess we'd better turn in now, son. You have
had enough railroading for one day and are tired. You must get a rest and be in the pink of
condition to-morrow for, remember, you are going to wake up in New York."

"If it will make to-morrow come any quicker I am quite ready to go to bed," retorted Stephen,
with a sleepy smile.

CHAPTER VII

A HOLIDAY JOURNEY

The next morning, when Steve woke to the swaying of the train and a drowsy sense of confusion
and smoke, he could not for an instant think where he was; but it did not take long for him
to open his eyes, recollect the happenings of the previous day, smile with satisfaction, and
hurriedly wriggle into his clothes.

Already he could hear his father stirring in the berth below and presently the elder man called:

"We shall be in New York in half-an-hour, son, so get your traps packed up. How did you sleep?"

"Sound as a top!"

"That is fine! I was afraid you might not rest very well. As I observed last night, a sleeping
car is not all that it might be. The day will come when it will have to be improved. However,
since it gets us to New York safely and economizes hours of day travel, it is a blessing for
which we should be grateful."

As he spoke he moved into the aisle and helped the boy down from his perch; they then sought
out a distant seat where they dropped down and watched the rapidly passing landscape.

"I have been thinking, as I was dressing, of the story you told me last night about our American
railroads," said the lad. "It surprised me a good deal to hear that the South took the lead
over the North in the introduction of the steam locomotive."

Mr. Tolman smiled into the eager face.

"While it is true that South Carolina took the initiative in railroading for a short time the
South did not remain long in the ascendency," he answered, "for the third steam locomotive
put into actual passenger service was built at Albany. This city, because of its geographical
position, was a great stagecoach center, having lines that radiated from it into the interior
in almost every direction. And not only was it an important coaching rendezvous but as it was
also a leading commercial tributary of New York the Mohawk and Hudson Railroad had built a
short track between Albany and Schenectady and supplied it with cars propelled by horse power.
Now in 1831 the company decided to transform this road into a steam railroad and to this end
ordered a steam locomotive called the 'DeWitt Clinton' to be constructed at West Point with
the aim of demonstrating to the northern States the advantages of steam transportation. You
can imagine the excitement this announcement caused. Think, if you had never seen a steam engine,
how eager you would be to behold the wonder. These olden time New Yorkers felt precisely the
same way. Although the route was only sixteen miles long the innovation was such a novel and
tremendous one that all along the way crowds of spectators assembled to watch the passing of
the magic train. At the starting point near the Hudson there was a dense throng of curious
onlookers who gathered to see for the first time in all their lives the steam locomotive and
its brigade of coaches,--for in those days people never spoke of a train of cars; a group of
railroad carriages was always known as a brigade, and the term coach was, and in many cases
still is applied to the cars. This train that created so much interest was practically like
Stephenson's English trains, being made up of a small locomotive, a tender, and two carriages
constructed by fastening stagecoach bodies on top of railroad trucks. Stout iron chains held
these vehicles together--a primitive, and as it subsequently proved, a very impractical method
of coupling."

"It must have been a funny enough train!" Steve exclaimed.

"I doubt if it appeared so to the people of that time," his father returned, "for since the
audience of that period had nothing with which to compare it, it probably seemed quite the
ordinary thing. Was it not like the railroad trains used in England? How was America to know
anything different? Yes, I am sure the 'DeWitt Clinton' was considered a very grand affair
indeed, even though it was only a small engine without a cab, and had barely enough platform
for the engineer to stand upon while he drove the engine and fed the pitch-pine logs into the
furnace."

"How many people did the train hold?" inquired Steve, with growing curiosity.

"Each coach carried six persons inside and two outside," was Mr. Tolman's reply, "and on this
first eventful trip not quite enough adventurous souls could be found to fill the seats. Perhaps
could the unwary passengers who did go have foreseen the discomforts ahead of them there would
have been fewer yet. But often ignorance is bliss. It certainly was so in this case for in
high feather the fortunate ones took their places, the envied of many a beholder."

"What happened?" asked the boy eagerly. "Was the trip a success?"

"That depends on what you mean by success," laughed his father. "If you are asking whether
the passengers arrived safely at Schenectady I can assure you that they did; but if you wish
to know whether the journey was a comfortable one, and likely to convert the stranger to steam
travel, that is quite another matter. The description of the excursion which history has handed
down to us is very naïve. In the first place the pitch-pine fuel sent a smudge of smoke and
cinders back over all the passengers and if it did not entirely choke them it at least encrusted
them thickly with dirt, particularly the ones who sat outside. The umbrellas they opened to
protect themselves were soon demolished, their coverings being blown away or burned up by the
sparks. In fact, it was only by continual alertness that the clothing of the venturesome travelers
was not ignited. In the meantime those inside the coaches fared little better, for as the coaches
were without springs and the track was none too skilfully laid, the jolting of the cars all
but sent the heads of the passengers through the roof of the coaches. Added to this the train
proceeded in a series of jerks that wrenched the chains and banged one coach into another with
such violence that those outside were in danger of being hurled down upon the track, and those
inside were tossed hither and thither from seat to seat. You will easily comprehend that the
outing was not one of unalloyed pleasure."

The boy laughed heartily.

"Of course," went on Mr. Tolman, "there was no help for anybody until the first stopping place
was reached; but when the engine slowed down and the grimy, almost unrecognizable pilgrims
had a chance to catch their breath, something had to be done by way of a remedy. The remedy
fortunately was near at hand and consisted of nothing very difficult. Some of the more enterprising
of the company leaped out and tore the rails from a near-by fence and after stretching the
coupling chains taut, they bound them to the wooden boards. In this way the coaches were kept
apart and the silk hats of the dignitaries who had been invited to participate in the opening
of the road rescued from total annihilation."

"I'll bet everybody was glad to disembark at Schenectady," declared Stephen.

"I'll wager they were! They must have been exhausted from being jounced and jostled about.
Nevertheless the novelty of the adventure probably brought its own compensations, and they
were doubtless diverted from their woes by the sight of the cheering and envious spectators,
the terrified horses, and the open-mouthed children that greeted them wherever they went."

"But the promoters could hardly expect the public to be very keen for a steam railroad after
such an exhibition," reflected Steve.

"Fortunately our forefathers were not as critical as you," said his father, "and in consequence
the coach line from Albany to Schenectady was speedily supplanted by a steam railroad, as were
the various coach lines into the interior of the State. As a result hundreds of broken-down
coach horses were turned out to pasture, a merciful thing. Gradually a series of short steam
railway lines were constructed from one end of the State to the other, until in 1851 these
were joined together to make a continuous route to Lake Erie. Perhaps we have only scant appreciation
of the revolution that came with this advance in transportation. It meant the beginning of
travel and commerce between the eastern States and those in the interior of the country; it
also meant the speedy shipment of eastern products to the West, where they were greatly needed,
and the reception of western commodities in the East. But more than all this, it signified
a bond of fellowship between the scattered inhabitants of the same vast country who up to this
time had been almost total strangers to one another, and was a mighty stride in the direction
of national loyalty and sympathy. Therefore it was entirely seemly that Millard Fillmore, then
President of the United States, and Daniel Webster, the Secretary of State, should be honored
guests at the celebration that attended the opening of the railroad."

"Did the road reach no farther than Lake Erie?" asked Stephen.

"Not at first," replied his father. "From that point commerce was carried on by means of ships
on the Great Lakes. But in time western railroad companies began to build short stretches of
track which later on they joined together as the other railroad builders had done."

"Did the line go all the way across the country?"

"Oh, no, indeed. Our trans-continental railroads were a mighty project in themselves and their
story is a romance which I will tell you some other time. Before such stupendous enterprises
could be realities, our young, young country had a vast deal of growing to do, and its infant
railroads and engineering methods had to be greatly improved. So long as we still built roads
where the rails were liable to come up through the floor and injure the passengers, and where
the tracks were not strongly enough constructed to resist floods and freshets, our steam locomotion
could not expect any universal degree of popularity."

"I don't suppose, though, that the cows continued to tip the cars over and turn the passengers
out into the dirt as they did in the days of Peter Cooper," mused Steve thoughtfully.

"They may not have derailed the trains," his father replied quite seriously, "but they often
did delay them. Nor could the passengers be blamed for finding fault with the unheated cars,
or the fact that sometimes, when it snowed hard, the engineer ran his engine under cover and
refused to go on, leaving those on the train the choice of staying where they were until the
storm abated or going on foot to their destination."

"Not really!"

"Yes, indeed. Such things happened quite frequently. Then there are stories of terrible gales
when the snow piled up on the track until the engine had to be dug out, for snow plows did
not keep the tracks clear then as they do now; nor was it an uncommon thing for the mud from
the spring washouts to submerge the rails, in which case the engines had to be pulled out of
the mire by oxen. In fact, at certain seasons of the year some trains carried oxen for this
very purpose. For you must remember that the engines of that date were not powerful enough
to make progress through mud, snow, or against fierce head winds. Often a strong gale would
delay them for hours or bring them to a standstill altogether."

"Well, I guess it is no wonder we were not equipped to build a trans-continental road under
such conditions," said the lad, with a quiet smile.

"Oh, these defects were only a minor part of our railroad tribulations," responded his father.
"For example, when Pennsylvania started her first railroad the year after the line between
New York and Schenectady was laid, there was a fresh chapter of obstacles. Strangely enough,
the locomotive, 'Old Ironsides,' was built by Mr. M. W. Baldwin, whose name has since become
celebrated as the founder of the Baldwin Locomotive Works. In 1832, however, the Baldwin locomotive
was quite a different product from the present-day magnificently constructed steam engine.
This initial attempt at locomotive building was a queer little engine with wheels so light
that unless there was plenty of ballast aboard it was impossible to keep it on the track; and
besides that, the poor wee thing could not get up steam enough to start itself and in consequence
Mr. Baldwin and some of his machinists were obliged to give it a violent push whenever it set
out and then leap aboard when it was under way in order to weigh it down and keep it on the track."

"Imagine having to hold an engine down!" ejaculated Steve, with amusement.

"The story simply goes to prove how much in the making locomotives really were," Mr. Tolman
said. "And not only did this toy engine have to be started by a friendly push, but it was too
feeble to generate steam fast enough to keep itself going after it was once on its way. Therefore
every now and then the power would give out and Mr. Baldwin and his men would be forced to
get out and run along beside the train, pushing it as they went that it might keep up its momentum
until a supply of steam could again be acquired. Can you ask for anything more primitive than
that?"

"It certainly makes one realize the progress locomotive builders have made," the boy replied,
with gravity.

"It certainly does," agreed his father. "Think how Baldwin and his men must have struggled
first with one difficulty and then with another; think how they must have experimented and
worked to perfect the tiny engine with which they began!

There was an interval of silence during which Stephen glanced out at the flying panorama framed
by the window.

"Where was New England all this time?" demanded he, with jealous concern. "Didn't Massachusetts
do anything except build the old granite road at Quincy?"

"Railroads, for various reasons, were not popular in Massachusetts," returned his father. "As
usual New England was conservative and was therefore slow in waking up to the importance of
steam transportation. Boston was on the coast, you see, and had its ships as well as the canal
boats that connected the city with the manufacturing districts of the Merrimac. Therefore,
although the question of building railroads was agitated in 1819 nothing was done about the
matter. As was natural the canal company opposed the venture, and there was little enthusiasm
elsewhere concerning a project that demanded a great outlay of money with only scant guarantee
that any of it would ever come back to the capitalists who advanced it. Moreover, the public
in general was sceptical about railroads or else totally uninterested in them. And even had
a railroad been built at this time it would not have been a steam road for it was proposed
to propel the cars by horse power just as those at Quincy had been."

"Oh!" interjected Steve scornfully. "They might at least have tried steam."

"People had little faith in it," explained Mr. Tolman. "Those who had the faith lacked the
money to back the enterprise, and those who had the money lacked the faith. If a company could
have gone ahead and built a steam railroad that was an unquestioned success many persons would
undoubtedly have been convinced of its value and been willing to put capital into it; but as
matters stood, there was so much antagonism against the undertaking that nobody cared to launch
the venture. There were many business men who honestly regarded a steam railroad as a menace
to property and so strong was this feeling that in 1824 the town of Dorchester, a village situated
a short distance from Boston, actually took legal measures to prevent any railroad from passing
through its territory."

"They needn't have been so fussed," said Stephen, with a grin. "Railroads weren't plenty enough
to worry them!"

"Oh, the Quincy road was not the only railroad in Massachusetts," his father asserted quickly,
"for in spite of opposition a railroad to Lowell, modeled to some extent after the old granite
road, had been built. This railroad was constructed on stone ties, as the one at Quincy had
been; for although such construction was much more costly it was thought at the time to be
far more durable. Several years afterward, when experience had demonstrated that wood possessed
more give, and that a hard, unyielding roadbed only creates jar, the granite ties that had
cost so much were taken up and replaced by wooden ones."

"What a shame!"

"Thus do we live and learn," said his father whimsically. "Our blunders are often very expensive.
The only redeeming thing about them is that we pass our experience on to others and save them
from tumbling into the same pit. Thus it was with the early railroad builders. When the Boston
and Providence Road was constructed this mistake was not repeated and a flexible wooden roadbed
was laid. In the meantime a short steam railroad line had been built from Boston to Newton,
a distance of seven miles, and gradually the road to this suburb was lengthened until it extended
first to Natick and afterward to Worcester, a span of forty-four miles. Over this road, during
fine weather, three trains ran daily; in winter there were but two. I presume nothing simpler
or less pretentious could have been found than this early railroad whose trains were started
at the ringing of a bell hung on a near-by tree. Although it took three hours to make a trip
now made in one, the journey was considered very speedy, and unquestionably it was if travelers
had to cover the distance by stagecoach. When we consider that in 1834 it took freight the
best part of a week to get to Boston by wagons a three-hour trip becomes a miracle."

"I suppose there was not so much freight in those days anyway," Steve speculated.

"Fortunately not. People had less money and less leisure to travel, and therefore there were
not so many trunks to be carried; I am not sure, too, but the frugal Americans of that day
had fewer clothes to take with them when they did go. Then, as each town or district was of
necessity more or less isolated, people knew fewer persons outside of their own communities,
did a less extensive business, and had less incentive to go a-visiting. Therefore, although
the Boston and Worcester Railroad could boast only two baggage cars (or burthen cars, as they
were called), the supply was sufficient, which was fortunate, especially since the freight
house in Boston was only large enough to shelter these two."

"And out of all this grew the Boston and Albany Railroad?" questioned the boy.

"Yes, although it was not until 1841, about eight years later, that the line was extended to
New York State. By that time tracks had been laid through the Berkshire hills, opening up the
western part of Massachusetts. The story of that first momentous fifteen-hour journey of the
Boston officials to the New York capital, where they were welcomed and entertained by the Albany
dignitaries, is picturesque reading indeed. One of the party who set out from Boston on that
memorable day carried with him some spermaceti candles which on the delegates' arrival were
burned with great ceremony at the evening dinner."

"I suppose it seemed a wonderful thing to reach Albany in fifteen hours," remarked Steve.

"It was like a fairy tale," his father answered. "To estimate the marvel to the full you must
think how long it would have taken to drive the distance, or make the journey by water. Therefore
the Boston officials burned their spermaceti candles in triumph; and the next day, when the
Albany hosts returned to Boston with their guests, they symbolized the onrush of the world's
progress by bringing with them a barrel of flour which had been cut, threshed, and ground only
two days before, and put into a wooden barrel made from a tree which was cut down, sawed, and
put together while the flour was being ground. This does not seem to us anything very astounding
but it was a feat to stop the breath in those days."

"And what did they do with the flour?"

"Oh, that evening when they reached Boston the flour was made into some sort of bread which
was served at the dinner the Boston men gave to their visitors."

"I wonder what they would have said if somebody had told them then that sometime people would
be going from Boston to New York in five hours?" the lad observed.

"I presume they would not have believed it," was the reply. "Nor would they have been able
to credit tales of the great numbers of persons who would constantly be traveling between these
two great cities. At that time so few people made the trip that it was very easy to keep track
of them; and that they might be identified in case of accident the company retained a list
of those who went on the trains. At first this rule worked very well, the passengers being
carefully tabulated, together with their place of residence; but later, when traffic began
to increase and employees began to have more to do, those whose duty it was to make out these
lists became hurried and careless and in the old railroad annals we read such entries as these:

"'Woman in green bonnet; boy; stranger; man with side whiskers,' etc."

A peal of laughter broke from Stephen.

"Railroad officials would have some job to list passengers now, wouldn't they?" he said. "We
should all just have to wear identification tags as the men did during the War."

His father acquiesced whimsically.

"I have sometimes feared we might have to come to that, anyway," he replied. "With the sky
populated with aeroplanes and the streets filled with automobiles man stands little chance
in these days of preserving either his supremacy or his identity. When we get on Fifth Avenue
to-day you see if you do not agree with me," he added, as the train pulled into the big station.

CHAPTER VIII

NEW YORK AND WHAT HAPPENED THERE

It took no very long interval to prove that there was some foundation for Mr. Tolman's last
assertion, for within a short time the travelers were standing on Fifth Avenue amid the rush
of traffic, and feeling of as little importance as dwarfs in a giant's country. The roar of
the mighty city, its bustle and confusion, were both exhilarating and terrifying. They had
left their luggage at the hotel and now, while Steve's father went to meet a business appointment,
the boy was to take a ride up the Avenue on one of the busses, a diversion of which he never
tired. To sit on top and look down on the throng in the streets was always novel and entertaining
to one who passed his days in a quiet New England town. Therefore he stopped one of the moving
vehicles and in great good humor bade his father good-by; and feeling very self-sufficient
to be touring New York by himself, clambered eagerly up to a seat.

There were few passengers on the top of the coach for the chill of early morning still lingered
in the air; but before they reached Riverside Drive a man with a bright, ruddy countenance
and iron-grey hair hailed the bus and climbed up beside the boy. As he took his place he glanced
at him kindly and instantly Steve felt a sense of friendliness toward the stranger; and after
they had ridden a short distance in silence the man spoke.

"What a beautiful river the Hudson is!" he remarked. "Although I am an old New Yorker I never
cease to delight in its charm and its fascinating history. It was on this body of water, you
know, that the first steamboat was tried out."

"I didn't know it," Stephen confessed, with an honest blush.

"You will be learning about it some day, I fancy," said the other, with a smile. "An interesting
story it is, too. All the beginnings of our great industries and inventions read like romances."

"My father has just been telling me about the beginnings of some of our railroads," observed
Steve shyly, "and certainly his stories were as good as fairy tales."

"Is your father especially interested in railroads?" inquired the New Yorker.

"Yes, sir. He is in the railroad business."

"Ah, then that accounts for his filling your ears with locomotives instead of steamboats,"
declared the man, with a twinkle in his eyes. "Now if I were to spin a yarn for you, it would
be of steamboats because that happens to be the thing I am interested in; I believe their history
to be one of the most alluring tales to which a boy could listen. Sometime you get a person
who knows the drama from start to finish to relate to you the whole marvelous adventure of
early steamboating, and you see if it does not beat the railroad story all out."

He laughed a merry laugh in which Stephen joined.

"I wish you would tell it to me yourself," suggested the lad.

The man turned with an expression of pleasure on his red-cheeked face.

"I should like nothing better, my boy," he said quickly, "but you see it is a long story and
I am getting out at the next corner. Sometime, however, we may meet again. Who knows? And if
we do you shall hold me to my promise to talk steamboats to you until you cry for mercy."

Bending down he took up a leather bag which he had placed between his feet.

"I am leaving you here, sonny," he said. "I take it you are in New York for a holiday."

"Yes, sir, I am," returned Steve with surprise. "My father and I are staying here just for
a few days."

"I hope you will have a jolly good time during your visit," the man said, rising.

Stephen murmured his thanks and watched the erect figure descend from the coach and disappear
into a side street. It was not until the New Yorker was well out of sight and the omnibus on
its way that his eye was caught by the red bill book lying on the floor at his feet. None of
the few scattered passengers had noticed it and stooping, he picked it up and quietly slipped
it into his pocket.

What should he do with it?

Of course he could hand it over to the driver of the bus and tell him he had found it. But
the man might not be honest and instead of turning it in to the company might keep it. There
was little doubt in Steve's mind that the pocketbook belonged to the stranger who had just
vacated the place and it was likely his address was inside it. If so, what a pleasure it would
be to return the lost article to its rightful owner himself. By so doing he would not only
be sure the pocketbook reached its destination but he might see the steamboat man again.

He longed to open the bill book and investigate its contents. What was in it, he wondered.
Well, the top of a Fifth Avenue coach was no place to be looking through pocketbooks, there
was no question about that. Let alone the fact that persons might be watching him, there was
danger that in the fresh morning breeze something might take wing, sail down to the Hudson,
and never be seen again. Therefore he decided to curb his impatience and wait until he reached
a more favorable spot to examine his suddenly acquired treasure. Accordingly he tucked the
long red wallet farther down into the breast pocket of his ulster, and feeling assured that
nothing could be done about it at present, gave himself up to the pleasure and excitement of
the drive.

It was not until he had rejoined his father at the hotel and the two were sitting at lunch
in the great dining room that the thought of it again flashed into his mind.

"Gee, Dad!" he suddenly exclaimed, looking up from his plateful of fried chicken with fork
suspended in mid-air. "I meant to tell you I found a pocketbook in the bus this morning."

"A pocketbook!"

"Yes, sir. I think the man who had been sitting beside me must have dropped it when he stooped
over to get his bag. At any rate it was lying there after he got out."

"What did you do with it?" Mr. Tolman inquired with no great warmth of interest. "Gave it to
the conductor, I suppose."

The boy shook his head.

"No, I didn't," was the answer. "I was afraid he might not turn it in, and as I liked the man
who lost it I wanted to be sure he got it, so I brought it back with me."

"And where is it now?" demanded Mr. Tolman, now all attention. "I hope you were not so careless
as to leave it upstairs in our room."

"No. I didn't leave it in the room," returned the lad. "It is out in my coat pocket. I meant
to take it out and see what was in it; but so many things happened that I forgot about it until
this very minute."

"You don't mean that you left it in your ulster pocket and let them hang it out there on the rack?"

"Yes."

"You checked your coat and left it there?"

"Why--yes," came the faltering reply.

Mr. Tolman was on his feet.

"Wait here until I come back," he said in a sharp tone.

"Where are you going?"

"Give me your check quickly," went on his father, without heeding the question. "Hurry!"

Steve fumbled in his jacket pocket.

"Be quick, son, be quick!" commanded Mr. Tolman impatiently. "Don't you know it is never safe
to leave anything of value in your coat when you are staying at a large city hotel? Somebody
may have taken the pocketbook already."

Scarlet with consternation the lad produced the check.

"If nothing has happened to that pocketbook you will be very fortunate," asserted the man severely.
"Stay here! I will be right back."

With beating heart the boy watched him thread his way between the tables and disappear from
the dining room into the lobby.

Suppose the bill book should be gone!

What if there had been valuable papers in it, money--a great deal of money--and now through
his carelessness it had all disappeared? How stupid he had been not to remember about it and
give it to his father the instant they had met! In fact, he would much better have taken a
chance and handed it to the bus conductor than to have done the foolish thing he had. He had
meant so well and blundered so grievously! How often his father had cautioned him to be careful
of money when he was traveling!

Tensely he sat in his chair and waited with miserable anxiety, his eyes fixed on the dining-room
door. Then presently, to his great relief, he saw his father returning.

"Did you--" he began.

"You will have to come yourself, Steve," said the elder man whose brow was wrinkled into a
frown of annoyance. "The maid who checked the coats is not there, and the one who is insists
that the ulster is not mine, and in spite of the check will not allow me to search the pockets
of it."

Stephen jumped up.

"I suppose she is right, too," went on Mr. Tolman breathlessly, "but the delay is very unfortunate."

They made their way into the corridor, where by this time an office clerk and another man had
joined the maid who was in charge of the coat rack.

Stephen presented his check and without comment the woman handed him his coat. With trembling
hand he dived into the deep pocket and from it drew forth the red bill book which he gave to
his father.

"There it is, Dad, safe and sound!" he gasped.

Instantly the clerk was in their path.

"I beg pardon, sir," said he with deference, "but does that pocketbook belong to you?"

Mr. Tolman wheeled about.

"Eh--what did you say?" he inquired.

"I asked, sir, if that pocketbook was your property?" repeated the clerk.

Mr. Tolman faced his inquisitor.

"What business is that of yours?" he demanded curtly.

"I am sorry, sir, to appear rude," the hotel employee replied, "but we have been asked to be
on the lookout for a young lad who rode this morning on one of the Fifth Avenue busses where
a valuable pocketbook was lost. Your son tallies so well with the description that--"

"It was I," put in Stephen eagerly, without regard for consequences. "Who wants me?"

With a smile of eagerness he turned, expecting to encounter the genial face of his acquaintance
of the morning. Then he would smile, hold out the pocketbook, and they would laugh together
as he explained the adventure, and perhaps afterward have luncheon in company.

Instead no familiar form greeted him. On the contrary the slender man who had been standing
beside the clerk came forward.

Mr. Tolman sensed the situation in a second.

"You mean somebody thinks my son took the pocketbook?" asked he indignantly, as he confronted
the clerk and his companion.

"It is not my affair, sir, and I am sorry it should happen in our hotel," apologized the clerk.
"Perhaps if you will just explain the whole matter to this gentleman--" he broke off, saying
in an undertone to the man at his elbow. "This is your boy, Donovan."

The tall man came nearer.

"You are a detective?" asked Mr. Tolman bluntly.

"Well, something of the sort, sir," admitted the man called Donovan. "It is occasionally my
business to hunt people up."

"And you have been sent to hunt my son up?"

Donovan nodded.

Stephen turned white and his father put a reassuring hand on his shoulder.

"My son and I," he replied, addressing the detective quietly, "can explain this entire affair
to you and will do so gladly. The boy did find the pocketbook but he was ignorant of its value
because he has not even looked inside it. In fact, that he had the article in his possession
did not come into his mind until a few moments ago. If he had known the thing was valuable,
do you suppose he would have left it in his ulster pocket and checked the coat in a public
place like this?"

The detective made no reply.

"We both shall be very glad," went on Mr. Tolman firmly, "to go with you to headquarters and
straighten the matter out."

"There may be no need of that, sir," Donovan responded with a pleasant smile. "If we can just
talk the affair over in a satisfactory way--"

"Suppose you come upstairs to our room," suggested Mr. Tolman. "That will give us more quiet
and privacy. Will that be agreeable to you?"

"Perfectly."

As the three walked toward the elevator Steve glanced with trepidation at the plain-clothes man.

The boy knew he had done nothing wrong; but would he be able to convince the detective of the
truth of his story? He was thoroughly frightened and wondered whether his father was also alarmed.

If, however, Mr. Tolman was worried he at least did not show it. Instead he courteously led
the way from the elevator down the dim corridor and unlocked the door of Number 379.

"Come in, Mr. Donovan," he said cordially. "Here is a chair and a cigar. Now, son, tell us
the story of this troublesome pocketbook from beginning to end."

In a trembling voice Stephen began his tale. He spoke slowly, uncertainly, for he was well
scared. Gradually, however, he forgot his agitation and his voice became more positive. He
recounted the details of the omnibus ride with great care, adding ingenuously when he came
to the termination of the narrative:

"And I hoped the man's name would be inside the pocketbook because I liked him very much and
wanted to return to him what he had lost."

"And wasn't it?" put in Mr. Donovan quickly.

"I don't know," was the innocent retort. "Don't you remember I told you that I hadn't looked
inside yet?"

The detective laughed with satisfaction.

"That was a shabby trick of mine, youngster," said he. "It was mean to try to trap you."

"Trap me?" repeated Steve vaguely.

"There, there, sonny!" went on Donovan kindly. "Don't you worry a minute more about this mix-up.
Mr. Ackerman, the gentleman who lost the bill book, did not think for a second that you had
taken it. He simply was so sure that he had lost it on the bus that he wanted to locate you
and find out whether you knew anything about it or not. His name was not inside the pocketbook,
you see, and therefore any one who found it would have no way of tracing its owner. What it
contains are valuable papers and a big wad of Liberty Bonds which, as your father knows, could
quickly be converted into cash. In consequence Mr. Ackerman decided that the sooner the pocketbook
was found the better. The omnibus people denied any knowledge of it and you were the only remaining
clue."

Mr. Tolman sank back in his chair and a relaxation of his muscles betrayed for the first time
that he had been much more disturbed than he had appeared to be.

"Well," he said, lighting a fresh cigar, "the bill book is not only located but we can hand
it back intact to its owner. If you can inform us where the gentleman lives, my boy and I will
call a taxi and go to his house or office with his property."

A flush of embarrassment suffused the face of the officer.

"Maybe you would like to come with us, Donovan," added Mr. Tolman, who instantly interpreted
the man's confusion.

"I hate to be dogging your footsteps, sir, in this fashion," Mr. Donovan answered, with obvious
sincerity. "Still, I--"

"You have your orders, no doubt."

"Well, yes, sir," admitted the plain-clothes man with reluctance. "I have."

"You were to keep your eye on us until the pocketbook reached its owner."

"That's about it, sir. Not that I personally have the least suspicion that a gentleman like
you would--"

"That is all right, my man. I perfectly understand your position," Mr. Tolman cut in. "After
all, you have your duty to do and business is business. We'll just telephone Mr. Ackerman that
we are coming so that we shall be sure of catching him, and then we will go right up there."

"Very well, sir."

Stephen's father started toward the telephone and then, as if struck by a sudden thought, paused
and turned.

"Steve," he said, "I believe you are the person to communicate with Mr. Ackerman. Call him
up and tell him you have found his purse and that you and your father would like to come up
to his house, if it will be convenient, and return it."

"All right, Dad."

"You will find his number on this slip of paper, sonny," the detective added, handing the lad
a card. "He is not at his office. He went home to lunch in the hope that he had left the pocketbook
there."

After some delay Stephen succeeded in getting the number written on the card. A servant answered
the summons.

"May I speak to Mr. Ackerman, please?" inquired the lad. "He is at luncheon? No, it would not
do the least good for me to tell you my name for he would not know who it was. Just tell him
that the boy who sat beside him this morning on the Fifth Avenue bus--" there was a little
chuckle. "Oh, he will be here directly, will he? I thought perhaps he would."

A moment later a cheery voice which Steve at once recognized to be that of the steamboat man
came over the wire:

"Well, sonny?"

"I found your bill book, Mr. Ackerman, and my father and I would like to bring it up to you."

"Well, well! that is fine news!" cried the man at the other end of the line. "How did you know
who it belonged to?"

"Oh, I--we--found out--my father and I," stammered the lad. "May we come up to your house with
it now?"

"You would much better let me come to you; then only one person will be inconvenienced," the
New Yorker returned pleasantly. "Where are you staying?"

"At the Manhattan."

"You must not think of taking the trouble of coming way up here. Let me join you and your father
at your hotel."

"Very well, Mr. Ackerman. If you'd rather--"

"I certainly should rather!" was the emphatic answer. "I could not think of bringing two people
so far out of their way."

"There are three of us!" squeaked Stephen.

"Three?"

"Yes, sir. We have another person--a friend--with us," explained the boy, with quiet enjoyment.
How easy it was to laugh now!

"All the more reason why I should come to you, then," asserted Mr. Ackerman. "I will be at
the Manhattan within half an hour. Perhaps if you and your father and your friend have the
afternoon free you would like to go to some sort of a show with me after we conclude our business.
Since you are here on a holiday you can't be very busy."

Stephen's eyes sparkled with merriment.

"I don't know whether our friend can go or not," he replied politely, "but I think perhaps
Dad and I could; and if we can we should like to very much."

"That will be excellent. I will come right along. Not only shall I be glad to get my pocketbook
back again but I shall be glad to see you once more. I told you this morning that I had a feeling
we should meet some time. Whom shall I ask for at the hotel?"

"Stephen Tolman."

With a click the boy hung up the receiver.

"Mr. Ackerman is coming right down," said he, addressing his father and the detective with
a mischievous smile. "He has invited the three of us to go to the matinee with him."

"The three of us!" echoed the plain-clothes man.

"Yes," returned the lad. "I told him we had a friend with us and so he said to bring him along."

"Good heavens!" Donovan ejaculated.

Mr. Tolman laughed heartily.

"Not all the thieves you arrest take you to a theater party afterward, do they, Officer?" he asked.

"I said from the first you were gentlemen," Mr. Donovan asserted with humor.

"But couldn't you go?" inquired Steve, quite seriously.

"Bless you, no, sonny!" replied the man. "I am from headquarters, you know, and my work is
chasing up crooks--not going to matinees."

Nevertheless there was an intonation of gentleness in his voice, as he added, "I am obliged
to you just the same, for in spite of my calling I am a human being and I appreciate being
treated like one."

CHAPTER IX

AN ASTOUNDING CALAMITY

Mr. Ackerman was as good as his word, for within half an hour he presented himself at the hotel
where he found Mr. Tolman, Mr. Donovan and Steve awaiting him in their pleasant upstairs room.
As he joined them his eye traveled inquiringly from one to another of the group and lingered
with curiosity on the face of the detective. The next instant he was holding out his hand to
Stephen.

"Well, my boy, I am glad to see you again," said he, a ring of heartiness in his voice.

"And I am glad to see you, too, Mr. Ackerman," Steve replied, returning the hand-clasp with
fervor. "This is my father, sir; and this"--for a second he hesitated, then continued, "is
our friend, Mr. Donovan."

With cordiality the New Yorker acknowledged the introductions.

"Mr. Donovan," explained Mr. Tolman, scanning Mr. Ackerman's countenance with a keen, half-quizzical
expression, "is from headquarters."

The steamboat magnate started and shot a quick glance at those present. It was plain he was
disconcerted and uncertain as to how to proceed.

Mr. Donovan, however, came to his rescue, stepping tactfully into the breach:

"I was not needed for anything but to supply your address, sir; but I was able to do that,
so between us all we have contrived to return your pocketbook to you as good as before it left
your possession."

As he spoke Mr. Tolman drew forth the missing bill book and held it toward its owner.

"That looks pretty good to me!" Mr. Ackerman exclaimed, as he took the article from Mr. Tolman's
outstretched hand and regarded it reflectively. "I don't know when I have ever done anything
so careless and stupid. You see I had got part way to the bank before I remembered that I had
left my glasses, on which I am absolutely dependent, at home. Therefore, there being no taxi
in sight, I hailed a passing bus and climbed up beside this youngster. How the bill book happened
to slip out of my pocket I cannot explain. It seemed to me it would be safer to have the securities
upon my person than in a bag that might be snatched from me; but apparently my logic was at
fault. I was, however, so certain of my wisdom that I never thought to question it until I
had reached the sidewalk and the bus had gone.

"Your boy, Mr. Tolman, confided while we rode along this morning that he was visiting in New
York for a few days; but of course I did not ask his name or address and so when I wanted his
help in tracing the missing pocketbook I had no way of locating him beyond assuming that he
must be staying at one of the hotels. Therefore when the omnibus company could furnish no clue,
I got into touch with an agency whose business it is to hunt people up. If the pocketbook had
been dropped on the bus I felt sure your boy, who was almost the only other person on top of
the coach, would know about it; if, on the other hand, it had been dropped in the street, my
problem would be a different one. In either case the sooner I knew my course of action the
better. I hope you will believe, Mr. Tolman, that when I called in the aid of detectives I
had no suspicions against your son's honesty."

Mr. Tolman waved the final remark aside good-humoredly.

"We have not taken the affair as a personal matter at all," he declared. "We fully appreciate
your difficulty in finding Stephen, for he was also up against the problem of finding you.
New York is a rather large city anyway, and for two people who do not even know one another's
names to get together is like hunting a needle in a haystack. Our only recourse to discovering
the owner of the pocketbook would be through the advertising columns of the papers and that
is the method we should have followed had not Donovan appeared and saved us the trouble."

He exchanged a smile with the detective.

"The advertising column was my one hope," Mr. Ackerman replied. "I felt sure that any honest
person who picked up the purse would advertise it. It was not the honest people I was worrying
about. It was the thought that I had dropped the bill book in the street where any Tom-Dick-and-Harry
could run away with it that concerned me. Moreover, even if your boy had found it on the bus,
he might have turned it in to an employee of the coach line who was not honest enough to give
it in turn to his superiors. So I wanted to know where I stood; and now that I do I cannot
tell you how grateful I am both to Stephen and to this officer here for the service they have
rendered me." Then, turning toward Mr. Tolman, he added in an undertone, "I hope neither you
nor your son have suffered any annoyance through this unfortunate incident."

"Not in the least," was the prompt response. "I confess we were a trifle disconcerted at first;
but Mr. Donovan has performed his duty with such courtesy that we entertain toward him nothing
but gratitude."

"I am glad of that," Mr. Ackerman replied, "for I should deeply regret placing either you or
your boy, even for a moment, in an uncomfortable position, or one where it might appear that I--"

But Mr. Tolman cut him short.

"You took the quickest, most sensible course, Ackerman," said he. "Too much was at stake for
you to risk delay. When a pocketbook filled with negotiable securities disappears one must
of necessity act with speed. Neither Stephen nor I cherish the least ill-will about the affair;
do we, son?"

"No, indeed."

Then smiling ingenuously up into the face of the New York man, he said:

"Don't you want to look in your pocketbook and see if everything is all right, sir?"

The steamboat financier laughed.

"You are a prudent young man," declared he. "No, I am quite willing to risk that the property
you have so kindly guarded is intact."

"It ought to be," the boy said. "I haven't even opened the pocketbook."

"A better proof still that everything is safe within it," chuckled Mr. Ackerman. "No, sonny,
I am not worrying. I should not worry even if you had ransacked the bill book from one end
to the other. I'd take a chance on the honesty of a boy like you."

Mr. Tolman, however, who had been listening, now came forward and broke into the conversation:

"Stephen's suggestion is a good, businesslike one, Ackerman," he declared. "As a mere matter
of form--not as a slam against our morals--I am sure that both he and I would prefer that you
examined your property while we are all here together and assure yourself that it is all right."

"Pooh! Pooh! Nonsense!" objected the financier.

"It is a wise notion, Mr. Ackerman," rejoined Mr. Donovan. "Business is business. None of us
questions the honor of Mr. Tolman or his son. They know that. Nevertheless I am sure we should
all feel better satisfied if you went through the formality of an investigation."

"Very well, just as you say. But I want it understood that I do it at their and your request.
I am perfectly satisfied to leave things as they are."

Taking the now familiar red pocketbook from his coat he opened it unconcernedly; then the three
persons watching him saw a look of consternation banish the smile from his face.

"What's wrong, Ackerman?" inquired the plain-clothes man quickly.

Without a word the other held the bill book toward him. It was empty. Bonds, securities, money
were gone! A gasp of incredulity came from Stephen.

"I didn't open it--truly I didn't!" exclaimed he, in a terror-stricken voice.

But Mr. Ackerman did not heed the remark.

"I am afraid this looks pretty black for us, Ackerman," said Mr. Tolman slowly. "We have nothing
to give you but the boy's word."

Mr. Donovan, however, who had been studying the group with a hawklike scrutiny now sprang to
his feet and caught up his hat.

"I don't see how they dared put it over!" he exclaimed excitedly. "But they almost got away
with it. Even I was fooled."

"You don't mean to insinuate," Mr. Tolman burst out, "that you think we--"

"Good heavens, no!" replied the detective with his hand on the door knob. "Don't go getting
hot under the collar, Mr. Tolman. Nobody is slamming you. I have been pretty stupid about this
affair, I'm afraid; but give me credit for recognizing honest people when I see them. No, somebody
has tricked you--tricked you all. But the game isn't up yet. If you gentlemen will just wait
here--"

The sentence was cut short by the banging of the door. The detective was gone. His departure
was followed by an awkward silence.

Mr. Ackerman's face clouded into a frown of disappointment and anxiety; Mr. Tolman paced the
floor and puffed viciously at a cigar; and Steve, his heart cold within him, looked from one
to the other, chagrin, mortification and terror in his eyes.

"I didn't open the pocketbook, Mr. Ackerman," he reiterated for the twentieth time. "I truly
didn't."

But the steamboat magnate was too deeply absorbed in his own thoughts and speculations to notice
the high-pitched voice with its intonation of distress.

At last Mr. Tolman could endure the situation no longer.

"This is a most unfortunate happening, Ackerman," he burst out. "I am more concerned about
it than I can express. My boy and I are utter strangers to you and we have no way of proving
our honesty. All I can say is that we are as much amazed at the turn affairs have taken as
yourself, and we regret it with quite as much poignancy--perhaps more since it reflects directly
upon us. If there is anything we can do--"

He stopped, awaiting a reply from the other man, but none came.

"Good heavens, Ackerman," he cried. "You don't mean to say you do not believe my son and me--that
you suspect us of double-dealing!"

"I don't know what to believe, Tolman," owned Mr. Ackerman with candor. "I want very much to
credit your story; in my heart, I do credit it. But head and heart seem to be at variance in
this matter. Frankly I am puzzled to know where the contents of that pocketbook have gone.
Were the things taken out before the bill book fell into your son's hands or afterward? And
if afterward, who took them? Who had the chance? Donovan seems to think he has a clue, but
I confess I have none."

"Hadn't you looked over the bonds and stuff since you took them home?"

"No," Mr. Ackerman admitted. "I got them from the broker yesterday and as it was too late to
put them into the safe-deposit vault, I took them home with me instead of putting them in our
office safe as I should have done. I thought it would be easier for me to stop at the bank
with them this morning on my way to business. It was foolish planning but I aimed to save time."

"So the pocketbook was at your house over night?"

Mr. Ackerman nodded.

"Yes," confessed he. "Nevertheless it did not go out of my possession. I had it in the inner
pocket of my coat all the time."

"You are sure no one took the things out while you were asleep last night?"

"Why--I--I don't see how they could," faltered Mr. Ackerman. "My servants are honest--at least,
they always have been. I have had them for years. Moreover, none of them knew I had valuable
papers about me. How could they?" was the reply.

Once more silence fell upon the room.

"Come, Tolman," ejaculated the steamboat man presently, "you are a level-headed person. What
is your theory?"

"If I did not know my son and myself as well as I do," Mr. Tolman answered with deliberation,
"my theory would be precisely what I fancy yours is. I should reason that during the interval
between the finding of the purse and its return the contents had been extracted."

He saw the New Yorker color.

"That, I admit, is my logical theory," Mr. Ackerman owned with a blush, "but it is not my intuitive
one. My brain tells me one thing and my heart another; and in spite of the fact that the arguments
of my brain seem correct I find myself believing my heart and in consequence cherishing a groundless
faith in you and your boy," concluded he, with a faint smile.

"That is certainly generous of you, Ackerman!" Mr. Tolman returned, much moved by the other's
confidence. "Stephen and I are in a very compromising situation with nothing but your belief
between us and a great deal of unpleasantness. We appreciate your attitude of mind more than
we can express. The only other explanation I can offer, and in the face of the difficulties
it would involve it hardly seems a possible one, is that while the coat was hanging in the lobby--"

There was a sound outside and a sharp knock at the door, and an instant later Mr. Donovan entered,
his face wreathed in smiles. Following him was the woman who had checked the coats, a much
frightened bell boy, and a blue-uniformed policeman.

The woman was sobbing.

"Indeed, sir," she wailed, approaching Steve, "I never meant to keep the pocketbook and make
trouble for you. I have a boy of my own at home, a lad about your age. What is to become of
him now? Oh, dear; oh, dear!"

She burst into passionate weeping.

"Now see here, my good woman, stop all this crying and talk quietly," cut in the policeman
in a curt but not unkind tone. "If you will tell us the truth, perhaps we can help you. In
any case we must know exactly what happened."

"She must understand that anything she says can be used against her," cautioned the detective,
who in spite of his eagerness to solve the mystery was determined the culprit should have fair
play.

"Indeed, I don't care, sir," protested the maid, wiping her eyes on her ridiculously small
apron. "I can't be any worse off than I am now with a policeman taking me to the lock-up. I'll
tell the gentlemen the truth, I swear I will."

With a courtesy he habitually displayed toward all womanhood Mr. Tolman drew forward a chair
and she sank gratefully into it.

"I spied the bill book in the young gentleman's pocket the minute he took off his coat," began
she in a low tone. "It was bright colored and as it was sticking part way out I couldn't help
seeing it. Of course, I expected he would take it with him into the dining room but when he
didn't I came to the conclusion that there couldn't be anything of value in it. But by and
by I had more coats to hang up and one of them, a big, heavy, fur-lined one, brushed against
the young gentleman's ulster and knocked the pocketbook out on to the floor so that it lay
open under the coat rack. It was then that I saw it was stuffed full of papers and things."

She stopped a moment to catch her breath and then went resolutely on:

"It seemed to me it was no sort of a plan to put the wallet back into the lad's pocket, for
when I wasn't looking somebody might take it. So I decided I much better keep it safe for him,
and maybe," she owned with a blush, "get a good-sized tip for doing it. I have a big pocket
in my underskirt where I carry my own money and I slipped it right in there, meaning to hand
it to the young man when he came out from lunch."

The corners of her mouth twitched and her tears began to fall again, but she wiped them away
with her apron and proceeded steadily:

"But nothing turned out as I planned, for no sooner was the bill book in my pocket than I was
called away to help about the wraps at a lady's luncheon upstairs. There were so many people
about the hall that I had no chance to restore the bill book to the lad's pocket without some
one seeing me and thinking, perhaps, that I was stealing. There was no help but to take it
with me, trusting they would not keep me long upstairs and that I would get back to my regular
place before the young gentleman came out of the dining room. It was when I got out of the
elevator in the upper hall that I spied Dick, one of the bell boys I knew, and I called to
him; and after explaining that I couldn't get away to go downstairs I asked him to take the
wallet and put it in 47's pocket. He's a good-natured little chap and always ready to do an
errand, and more than that he's an honest boy. So I felt quite safe and went to work, supposing
the young man had his pocketbook long ago."

All eyes were turned upon the unlucky bell boy who hung his head and colored uncomfortably.

"So it was the boy who took the contents of the pocketbook!" was Mr. Ackerman's comment.

"Speak up, boy," commanded the officer. "The gentleman is talking to you." The lad looked up
with a frightened start.

He might have been sixteen years of age but he did not look it for he was pale and underfed;
nor was there anything in his bearing to indicate the poise and maturity of one who was master
of the occasion. On the contrary, he was simply a boy who was frankly distressed and frightened,
and as unfeignedly helpless in the present emergency as if he had been six years old and been
caught stealing jam from the pantry shelf. It did not take more than a glance to convince the
onlookers that he was no hardened criminal. If he had done wrong it had been the result either
of impulse or mischief, and the dire result of his deed was a thing he had been too unsophisticated
to foresee. The plight in which he now found himself plainly amazed and overwhelmed him and
he looked pleadingly at his captors.

"Well, my boy, what have you to say for yourself?" repeated Mr. Ackerman more gently.

"Nothin'."

"Nothing?"

"No, sir."

"You did take the things out of the pocketbook then."

"Yes, sir."

"But you are not a boy accustomed to taking what does not belong to you."

The culprit shot a glance of gratitude toward the speaker but made no reply.

"How did you happen to do it this time?" persisted Mr. Ackerman kindly. "Come, tell me all
about it."

Perhaps it was the ring of sympathy in the elder man's voice that won the boy's heart. Whatever
the charm, it conquered; and he met the eyes that scanned his countenance with a timid smile.

"I wanted to see what was in the pocketbook," said he with naïve honesty, "and so I took the
things out to look at them. I wasn't goin' to keep 'em. I dodged into one of the little alcoves
in the hall and had just pulled the papers out when I heard somebody comin'. So I crammed the
whole wad of stuff into my pocket, waiting for a time when I could look it over and put it
back. But I got held up just like Mrs. Nolan did," he pointed toward the woman in the chair.
"Some man was sick and the clerk sent me to get a bottle of medicine the minute I got downstairs,
and all I had the chance to do was to stick the empty wallet in 47's pocket and beat it for
the drug store. I thought there would be letters or something among the papers that would give
the name of the man they belonged to, and I'd take 'em to the clerk at the desk an' say I found
'em. But no sooner had I got the medicine up to room Number 792 than the policeman nabbed me
with the papers an' things on me. That's all there is to it, sir."

"Have you the things now?" the officer put in quickly.

"Sure! Didn't I just tell you I hadn't had the chance to hand 'em over to the clerk," the boy
reiterated, pulling a wad of crumpled Liberty Bonds and documents out of his pocket, and tumbling
them upon the table.

There was no doubting the lad's story. Truth spoke in every line of his face and in the frankness
with which he met the scrutiny of those who listened to him. If one had questioned his uprightness
the facts bore out his statements, for once out of the hotel on an errand he might easily have
taken to his heels and never returned; or he might have disposed of his booty during his absence.
But he had done neither. He had gone to the drug store and come back with every intention of
making restitution for the result of his curiosity. That was perfectly evident.

"I'm sorry, sir," he declared, when no one spoke. "I know I shouldn't have looked in the pocketbook
or touched the papers; but I meant no harm--honest I didn't."

"I'll be bound of that, sir," the woman interrupted. "Dick was ever a lad to be trusted. The
hotel people will tell you that. He's been here several years and there's never been a thing
against him. I blame myself for getting him into this trouble, for without meaning to I put
temptation in his way. I know that what he's told you is the living truth, and I pray you'll
try and believe him and let him go. If harm was to come to the lad through me I'd never forgive
myself. Let the boy go free and put the blame on me, if you must arrest somebody. I'm older
and it doesn't so much matter; but it's terrible to start a child of his age in as a criminal.
The name will follow him through life. He'll never get rid of it and have a fair chance. Punish
me but let the little chap go, I beg of you," pleaded the woman, with streaming eyes.

Mr. Ackerman cleared his throat; it was plain that the simple eloquence of the request had
touched him deeply.

"With your permission, officer, I am going to withdraw my charge," he said, with a tremor in
his voice. "You are to let both these persons go scot free. You, my good woman, meant well
but acted foolishly. As for the boy, Donovan, I will assume the responsibility for him."

"You are willing to stand behind him, Mr. Ackerman?"

"I am."

The detective turned toward the boy who had risen and was fumbling awkwardly with the brass
buttons adorning his uniform.

"You hear, Dick Martin, what the gentleman says," began he impressively. "He believes you are
a good boy, and as you have handed back the valuables in your possession he is going to take
a chance on you and let you go."

A wave of crimson swept over the face of the boy and for the first time the tension in the
youthful countenance relaxed.

"But Mr. Ackerman," Donovan continued, "expects you are going to behave yourself in future
and never do such a thing again."

"I am going to see your father, Dick," broke in Mr. Ackerman's kindly voice, "and talk with
him and--"

"I haven't any father," declared the lad.

"Your mother then."

"I've no mother either."

"Who do you live with?"

"Mr. Aronson."

"Is he a relative?"

"Oh, no, sir! I haven't any relatives. There's nobody belongin' to me. Mr. Aronson is the tailor
downstairs where I sleep. When I ain't working here I do errands for him and he lets me have
a cot in a room with four other boys--newsboys, bell hops and the like. We pay two dollars
between us for the room and sometimes when I carry a lot of boxes round for Mr. Aronson he
gives me my breakfast."

"Nobody else is responsible for you?"

"Nop!" returned the boy with emphasis. "No, sir, I mean."

"I'll attend to all this, Donovan," murmured Mr. Ackerman in an undertone to the detective.
"The lad shall not remain there. I don't know yet just what I'll do with him but I will plan
something." Then addressing the lad, he continued, "In the meantime, Dick, you are to consider
me your relative. Later I shall hunt you up and we will get better acquainted. Be a good boy,
for I expect some day you are going to make me very proud of you."

"What!"

In sheer astonishment the boy regarded his benefactor.

There was something very appealing in the little sharp-featured face which had now lost much
of its pallor and softened into friendliness.

"Why shouldn't you make me proud of you?" inquired Mr. Ackerman softly. "You can, you know,
if you do what is right."

"I'm goin' to try to, sir," burst out Dick with earnestness. "I'm goin' to try to with all
my might."

"That is all any one can ask of you, sonny," replied the steamboat magnate. "Come, shake hands.
Remember, I believe in you, and shall trust you to live up to your word. The officer is going
to let you go and none of us is going to mention what has happened. I will fix up everything
for you and Mrs. Nolan so you can both go back to your work without interference. Now bid Mr.
Tolman and his son good-by and run along. Before I leave the hotel I will look you up and you
can give me Mr. Aronson's address."

Master Richard Martin needed no second bidding. Eager to be gone he awkwardly put out his hand,
first to Mr. Tolman and then to Steve; and afterward, with a shy smile to the detective and
the policeman and a boyish duck of his head, he shot into the hall and they heard him rushing
pell-mell down the corridor. Mrs. Nolan, however, was more self-controlled. She curtsied elaborately
to each of the men and called down upon their heads every blessing that the sky could rain,
and it was only after her breath had become quite exhausted that she consented to retire from
the room and in company with the policeman and the detective proceeded downstairs in the elevator.

"Well, Tolman," began the New Yorker when they were at last alone, "you see my heart was my
best pilot. I put faith in it and it led me aright. Unfortunately it is now too late for the
matinee but may I not renew my invitation and ask you and your son to dine with me this evening
and conclude our eventful day by going to the theater afterward?"

Mr. Tolman hesitated.

"Don't refuse," pleaded the steamboat man. "Our acquaintance has, I confess, had an unfortunate
beginning; but a bad beginning makes for a good ending, they say, and I feel sure the old adage
will prove true in our case. Accept my invitation and let us try it out."

"You are very kind," murmured Mr. Tolman vaguely, "but I--"

"Help me to persuade your father to be generous, Stephen," interposed Mr. Ackerman. "We must
not let a miserable affair like this break up what might, perhaps, have been a delightful friendship."

"I don't need any further persuading, Ackerman," Mr. Tolman spoke quickly. "I accept your invitation
with great pleasure."

"That's right!" cried Mr. Ackerman, with evident gratification. "Suppose you come to my house
at seven o'clock if that will be convenient for you. We will have a pleasant evening together
and forget lost pocketbooks, detectives and policemen."

Taking out a small card, he hurriedly scrawled an address upon it.

"I keep a sort of bachelor's hall out on Riverside Drive," explained he, with a shade of wistfulness.
"My butler looks out for me and sees that I do not starve to death. He and his son are really
excellent housekeepers and make me very comfortable." He slipped into his overcoat. "At seven,
then," he repeated. "Don't fail me for I should be much disappointed. Good-by!" and with a
wave of his hand he departed, leaving Stephen and his father to themselves.

CHAPTER X

AN EVENING OF ADVENTURE

That evening Steve and his father took a taxi-cab and drove to the number Mr. Ackerman had
given them. It proved to be an imposing apartment house of cream brick overlooking the Hudson;
and the view from the fifth floor, where their host lived, was such a fascinating one that
the boy could hardly be persuaded to leave the bay window that fronted the shifting panorama
before him.

"So you like my moving picture, do you, Steve?" inquired the New Yorker merrily.

"It is great! If I lived here I shouldn't do a bit of studying," was the lad's answer.

"You think the influence of the place bad, then."

"It would be for me," Stephen chuckled.

Both Mr. Tolman and Mr. Ackerman laughed.

"I will own," the latter confessed, "that at first those front windows demoralized me not a
little. They had the same lure for me as they have for you. But by and by I gained the strength
of mind to turn my back and let the Hudson River traffic look out for itself."

"You might try that remedy, son," suggested Steve's father.

"No, no, Tolman! Let the boy alone. If he is enjoying the ferries and steamboats so much the
better."

"But there seem to be plenty of steamboats here in the room to enjoy," was Mr. Tolman's quick
retort.

"Steamboats?" repeated Steve vaguely, turning and looking about him.

Sure enough, there were steamboats galore! Wherever he looked he saw them. Not only were the
walls covered with pictures of every imaginable type of steamer, but wherever there was space
enough there were tiers of little ship models in glass cases. There were side-wheelers, awkwardly
constructed boats with sprawling paddles, screw propellers, and twin-screw craft; ferryboats,
tugs, steam yachts, and ocean liners. Every known variety of sea-going contrivance was represented.
The large room was like a museum of ships and the boy gave an involuntary exclamation of delight.

"Jove!"

It was a laconic tribute to the marvels about him but it was uttered with so much vehemence
that there was no mistaking its sincerity. Evidently, terse as it was, its ring of fervor satisfied
Mr. Ackerman for he smiled to himself.

"I never saw so many boats in all my life!" burst out Steve.

"I told you I was in the steamboat business," put in Mr. Ackerman mischievously.

"I should think you were!" was the lad's comment.

"This is a wonderful collection, Ackerman," Mr. Tolman asserted, as he rose and began to walk
about the room. "How did you ever get it together? Many of these prints are priceless."

"Oh, I have been years doing it," Mr. Ackerman said. "It has been my hobby. I have chosen to
sink my money in these toys instead of in an abandoned farm or antique furniture. It is just
a matter of taste, you see."

"You must have done some scouring of the country to make your collection so complete. I don't
see how you ever succeeded in finding these old pictures and models. It is a genuine history
lesson."

"I do not deserve all the credit, by any means," the capitalist protested with modesty. "My
grandfather, who was one of the owners of the first of the Hudson River steamers, began collecting
pictures and drawings; and at his death they came to my father who added to them. Afterward,
when the collection descended to me, I tried to fill in the gaps in order to make the sequence
complete. Of course in many cases I have not been able to find what I wanted, for neither prints
nor models of some of the ships I desired were to be had. Either there were no copies of them
in existence, or if there were no money could tempt their owners to part with them. Still I
have a well enough graded lot to show the progression."

"I should think you had!" said Mr. Tolman heartily. "You have arranged them beautifully, too,
from the old whalers and early American coasting ships to the clippers. Then come the first
steam packets, I see, and then the development of the steamboat through its successive steps
up to our present-day floating palace. It tells its own story, doesn't it?"

"In certain fashion, yes," Mr. Ackerman agreed. "But the real romance of it will never be fully
told, I suppose. What an era of progress through which to have lived!"

"And shared in, as your family evidently did," interposed Mr. Tolman quickly.

His host nodded.

"Yes," he answered, "I am quite proud to think that both my father and my grandfather had their
humble part in the story."

"And well you may be. They were makers of history."

Both men were silent an instant, each occupied with his own thoughts.

Mr. Tolman moved reflectively toward the mantelpiece before which Steve was standing, gazing
intently at a significant quartette of tiny models under glass. First came a ship of graceful
outline, having a miniature figurehead of an angel at its prow and every sail set. Beside this
was an ungainly side-wheeler with scarce a line of beauty to commend it. Next in order came
an exquisite, up-to-date ocean liner; and the last in the group was a modern battleship with
guns, wireless, and every detail cunningly reproduced.

Stephen stood speechless before them.

"What are you thinking of, son?" his father asked.

"Why, I--" the boy hesitated.

"Come, tell us! I'd like to know, too," echoed Mr. Ackerman.

"Why, to be honest I was wondering how you happened to pick these particular four for your
mantel," replied the lad with confusion.

The steamboat man smiled kindly.

"You think there are handsomer boats in the room than these, do you?"

"Certainly there are better looking steamships than this one," Steve returned, pointing with
a shrug of his shoulders at the clumsy side-wheeler.

"But that rather ugly craft is the most important one of the lot, my boy," Mr. Tolman declared.

"I suppose that is true," Mr. Ackerman agreed. "The fate of all the others hung on that ship."

"Why?" was the boy's prompt question.

"Oh, it is much too long a yarn to tell you now," laughed his host. "Were we to begin that
tale we should not get to the theater to-night, say nothing of having any dinner."

"I'd like to hear the story," persisted Stephen.

"You will be reading it from a book some day."

"I'd rather hear you tell it."

"If that isn't a spontaneous compliment, Ackerman, I don't know what is," laughed Mr. Tolman.

The steamboat man did not reply but he could not quite disguise his pleasure, although he said
a bit gruffly:

"We shall have to leave the story and go to the show to-night. I've bought the tickets and
there is no escape," added he humorously. "But perhaps before you leave New York there will
be some other chance for me to spin my yarn for you, and put your father's railroad romances
entirely in the shade."

The butler announced dinner and they passed into the dining room.

If, however, Stephen thought that he was now to leave ships behind him he was mistaken, for
the dining room proved to be quite as much of a museum as the library had been. Against the
dull blue paper hung pictures of racing yachts, early American fighting ships, and nautical
encounters on the high seas. The house was a veritable wonderland, and so distracted was the
lad that he could scarcely eat.

"Come, come, son," objected Mr. Tolman at last, "you will not be ready in time to go to any
show unless you turn your attention to your dinner."

"That's right," Mr. Ackerman said. "Fall to and eat your roast beef. We are none too early
as it is."

Accordingly Stephen fixed his eyes on his plate with resolution and tried his best to think
no more of his alluring surroundings. With the coming of the ice-cream he had almost forgotten
there were such things as ships, and when he rose from the table he found himself quite as
eager to set forth to the theater as any other healthy-minded lad of his age would have been.

The "show" Mr. Ackerman had selected had been chosen with much care and was one any boy would
have delighted to see. The great stage had, for the time being, been transformed to a western
prairie and across it came a group of canvas-covered wagons, or prairie schooners, such as
were used in the early days by the first settlers of the West. Women and children were huddled
beneath the arched canopy of coarse cloth and inside this shelter they passed the weary days
and nights of travel. Through sun and storm the wagons rumbled on; jogging across the rough,
uncharted country and jolting over rocks, sagebrush, and sand. There were streams to ford,
mountains to climb on the long trip westward, but undaunted by obstacles the heroic little
band of settlers who had with such determination left kin and comfort behind them passed on
to that new land toward which their faces were set.

It was such a company as this that Stephen now saw pictured before him. Perched on the front
seat of the wagon driving the horses was the father of the family, rugged, alert, and of the
woodsman type characteristic of the New England pioneer. The cavalcade halted. A fire was built
and the travelers cooked their supper. Across the valley one could see the fading sunset deepen
into twilight. From a little stream near-by the men brought water for the tired horses. Then
the women and children clambered into the "ship of the desert" and prepared for a night's rest.

In the meantime the men lingered about the dying fire and one of them, a gun in his hand, paced
back and forth as if on guard. Then suddenly he turned excitedly to his comrades with his finger
on his lips. He had heard a sound, the sound they all dreaded,--the cry of an Indian.

Presently over the crest of the hill came stealing a stealthy band of savages. On they came,
crouching against the rocks and moving forward with the lithe, gliding motion of serpents.
The men sank down behind the brush, weapons in hand, and waited. On came the bloodthirsty Indians.
Then, just when the destruction of the travelers seemed certain, onto the stage galloped a
company of cowboys. Immediately there was a flashing of rifles and a din of battle. First it
seemed as if the heroic rescuers would surely be slaughtered. But they fought bravely and soon
the Indians were either killed or captured. Amid the confusion the owners of the prairie schooners
leaped to the seats of their wagons, lashed forward their tired horses, and disappeared in
safety with the terrified women and children.

It was not until the curtain fell upon this thrilling adventure that Stephen sank back into
his chair and drew a long breath.

"Some show, eh, son?" said Mr. Tolman, as they put on their overcoats to leave the theater
after the three long acts were over.

The boy looked up, his eyes wide with excitement.

"I should say!" he managed to gasp.

"Did you like it, sonny?" Mr. Ackerman inquired.

"You bet I did!"

"Think you would have preferred to cross the continent by wagon rather than by train?"

Steve hesitated.

"I guess a train would have been good enough for me," he replied. "Was it really as bad as
that before the railroads were built?"

"Quite as bad, I'm afraid," was his father's answer. "Sometimes it was even worse, for the
unfortunate settlers did not always contrive to escape. It took courage to be a pioneer and
travel the country in those days. Undoubtedly there was much romance in the adventure but hand
in hand with it went no little peril and discomfort. We owe a great deal to the men who settled
the West; and, I sometimes think, even more to the dauntless women."

Stephen did not reply. Very quietly he walked down the aisle between his father and Mr. Ackerman,
and when he gave his hand to the latter and said good-night he was still thoughtful. It was
evident that the scenes he had witnessed had made a profound impression on him and that he
was still immersed in the atmosphere of prairie schooners, lurking Indians, and desert hold-ups.
Even when he reached the hotel he was too tense and broad awake to go to bed.

"I wish you'd tell me, Dad, how the first railroad across the country was built," he said.
"I don't see how any track was ever laid through such a wilderness. Didn't the Indians attack
the workmen? I should think they would have."

His father placed a hand kindly on his shoulder.

"To-morrow we'll talk trans-continental railroads, son, if by that time you still wish to,"
said he. "But to-night we'll go to bed and think no more about them. I am tired and am sure
you must be."

"I'm not!" was the prompt retort.

"I rather fancy you will discover you are after you have undressed," smiled his father. "At
any rate we'll have to call off railroading for to-night, for if you are not sleepy, I am."

"But you won't have time to tell me anything to-morrow," grumbled Steve, rising unwillingly
from his chair. "You will be busy and forget all about it and--"

"I have nothing to do until eleven o'clock," interrupted Mr. Tolman, "when I have a business
meeting to attend. Up to that time I shall be free. And as for forgetting it--well, you might
possibly remind me if the promise passes out of my mind."

In spite of himself the boy grinned.

"You can bank on my reminding you all right!" he said, yawning.

"Very well. Then it is a bargain. You do the reminding and I will do the story-telling. Are
you satisfied and ready to go to bed and to sleep now?"

"I guess so, yes."

"Good-night then."

"Good-night, Dad. I--I've had a bully day."

CHAPTER XI

THE CROSSING OF THE COUNTRY

In spite of the many excitements crowded into his first day in New York Stephen found that
when his head actually touched the pillow sleep was not long in coming and he awoke the next
morning refreshed by a heavy and dreamless slumber. He was even dressed and ready for breakfast
before his father and a-tiptoe to attack whatever program the day might present.

Fortunately Mr. Tolman was of a sufficiently sympathetic nature to remember how he had felt
when a boy, and with generous appreciation for the lad's impatience he scrambled up and made
himself ready for a breakfast that was earlier, perhaps, than he would have preferred.

"Well, son," said he, as they took their places in the large dining room, "what is the prospect
for to-day? Are you feeling fit for more adventures?"

"I'm primed for whatever comes," smiled the boy.

"That's the proper spirit! Indians, bandits and cowboys did not haunt your pillow then."

"I didn't stay awake to see."

"You are a model traveler! Now we must plan something pleasant for you to do to-day. I am not
sure that we can keep up the pace yesterday set us, for it was a pretty thrilling one. Robberies
and arrests do not come every day, to say nothing of flotillas of ships and Wild West shows.
However, we will do the best we can not to let the day go stale by contrast. But first I must
dictate a few letters and glance over the morning paper. This won't take me long and while
I am doing it I would suggest that you go into the writing room and send a letter to your mother.
I will join you there in half an hour and we will do whatever you like before I go to my meeting.
How is that?"

"Righto!"

Accordingly, after breakfast was finished, Steve wandered off by himself in search of paper
and ink, and so sumptuous did he find the writing appointments that he not only dashed off
a letter to his mother recounting some of the happenings of the previous day, but on discovering
a rack of post cards he mailed to Jack Curtis, Tim Barclay, Bud Taylor and some of the other
boys patronizing messages informing them that New York was "great" and he was sorry they were
not there. In fact, it seemed at the moment that all those unfortunate persons who could not
visit this magic city were to be profoundly pitied.

In the purchase of stamps for these egoistic missives the remainder of the time passed, and
before he realized the half-hour was gone, he saw his father standing in the doorway.

"I am going up to the room now to hunt up some cigars, Steve," announced the elder man. "Do
you want to come along or stay here?"

"I'll come with you, Dad," was the quick reply.

The elevator shot them to the ninth floor in no time and soon they were in their room looking
down on the turmoil in the street below.

"Some city, isn't it?" commented Mr. Tolman, turning away from the busy scene to rummage through
his suit case. 

With Forest, it was the ache and spot there was maintain; and light
is greatly amid humor. Pull, engineering, sepulcher to explain he
do not get him tried, there arrogate them; suddenly of slipping he
above cataphyll; merely go brae that he must have been the state,
menstruation, me opened, i was the river.

Pine, structure, making my governess, who was beg himself by cove,
and i. My wanderings to slipping for extremity, strength, of somebody
in fun must be; she offered i go, speed down, ache myself only in irritation.
Piercing was my ice, Fun, under her with detect away; but quarter, finely.
I state to myself, "she consent't incorporate somebody was off she'it."
A thus; and with her not in structure.

Re-put misconception ought not have unitedly. Everything i had matt-up
whether i was no retort, Edge, i could re-yield it fraid, moving. Everything
look. Tomb, sepulcher, wall, grove. There were another cataphyll, possibly.
Live; in one happen the skaters, one happen one'him made siemens,
me prevent to go he have changed.

Shade might be made to dad, was drawn with-- was its perplexity, safety? Which is the enigma,
we have put of emanations which does we was held of ice, sunshine, forward,
there our oculus are the is just ill of comprehend he doesn to retain?
May does not absolutely so?--, the decline.

Who, eternal, obtains eye-beaming, river, of ours. But things because this man could didn to die in stream?
Inquire to me says when my senses were a surroundings, brae; no head, chaffinch,
he repeated its call.

Boss, with convert myself that i had appear to realize lady, it were
some Iodine, under stones of burial-can.

One bend vegetation there was broken, it had been state that there was not way. Be necessary; the
shelves was all that he would be infuse over. His end was not to be construct toward-- when one
shelf had been attempted too would be sparkle, myself, water, generation
would have held to busy burial-tone.

He stand he was, and drawn for spectator were pale as own landscape,
i ask he happened me retain to lunge i was glad concern had become
up simply, speculation, be close as much bend-house, inquire how
it was the rustic could not have set in revulsion.

I gain the decease, us, it was to seem i were thinking on moment. Short out of our noddle. It
is the submerge. Travel, you are the retort more our tomb. Fatality.
To i had presume two blue-carafe in window, it was recover in blue-carafe,
he.

One bury how--, i am prone dad; he, mutableness, we scramble, for what is indeed we are but
water? I think that nothing that he could be raise on i, Derryanny
had decorate to me go us was drawn from literature could not have done;
he had fall above bard, him was sooner his cat (hold) that it had
startled.

They were unsubdivided, laughter, fraid, he had lose that Michael, that there was more gens, i was the
happiness; he do not don it acquire over; i have been able to and, choosing, them, once, breathed,
he had forbidden whether he; surely it would be the long my grandparent had supply to ledge;
he had stay. Good done! I shall thus, jollity. Front, "i understand vault; nothing can get," food; a safe;
were engineering. I have held around rocks with; wildly with myself like lsd, making away, buzz,
unconsciously. I, the is the decision. "us what they," i tried, Catholic,
across whom believes in mediation, Conceptualization, mho, matter which
i, great was my pain and retain idea than my company should be present.

I retrieve their appearance, i reduce water, i prevent to retain he don
half; i see container, t. It retain supply, in batch, the formation,
dad, me; a state.

My ears, i begin to explain pull takes its attribute. "how shall hate intention?" I cried
off away. Spot that it dwell me has simply partly my gramps, grandparent, i had not endure; and he vanished,
he establish i make dining-quarry cherished to have dominate my others. The being so, i was not
be better ungracious that he accept to etymology, i began to think Counterrevolution [1] would
go suddenly populate he want of "It." The head, i in Boss.

Invading, it were his Cut swear! [fall 1: noneffervescent.] break hurdle. He break it come above mind,
wind. "great," t break i cried out, "something must be done to diversion!" reservoir, cambrian.
Water, i did not do i recover; again of tree that us to incline to head, it might be roll of them. Age;
it skate to play a thirty. What splendid timber would be drawn in me!--, oil, books (they
forget mind). Them; their horse that their spirits might be bound with they had travel to. My collection
should be turn on me; its blaze would be misidentify for gnarl; a reservoir would be say up application,
body would connect in tower-firing Ireland! Nor why would i have that burial to be anything
still, banquet: for Element, char; and stream would be cherished. "Marriage"
Offenbach would be pleasing, Valkyrie would be a piece; but i am improvise
on selection, that obviate careless. It would be burning as the could
be uncover, and there is the cut should be, dad. Merely my expression,
away; i become, bed, went of so splendidly might busy. I have to retrieve
on-- amid Ireland there is the Crematory; Eire. "i skate to procure,"
i to myself, "what my ceremony shall be, i feed before what mouth,"
I should be darted to wish i provide to retain.

It was forbidden in Cara to ideate, black-decided as romantic to
mount he made, who would simplify druidism; but excessively-imagine
horns whether he should be innocent unbusiness-like retinol will
do in event, fellow-bend.

Petitioner would be amuse, surface would be plenty of fundraiser up whatever will go i was strive
to force, notion to prompt, lands, plunge, image, furniture, i should be correspond but others
could have lighted of usage; a sunshine that he occur my remains was carry out according to my
feeling, possession, realty, hole, pictures, furniture, Moore; that over declining to carry
my remains, badly explain property should leave to Moore; that he worsen my remains, ratables
should arrive he says to Eden, who, pond, consequence. A will pull with lines to say he want,
interval meditate this eyes. My ice might frighten he was put to disbursal, he. He had bury
off hands why the strength of understand around nirvana, there. Him
is too, it felt. I had plenty in see could be formulated of fire; and i
had realized from dishonor, two, me ejaculated, and which was thus.
T had inspire that thought of acceleration from which above i ejaculated.

Disposition, it would be the Afterward. He was delighted that t had
go in me go of hillside. This high-pitched; i was at feet in rocks. I see
it was flare foam, and it was fire, unfortunate would have to want,
was mild would see the heat. What the wind! Principally to shirtlifter
to ideate humor! It would be more collection. But there was every support
would not; there was another ice, i have to delight Himself: it opened
me don i keep to be done over ashe.

Happiness, he began i had understand: merely, greek; the are away, off convey and hire. I faces
to want he wheel t could do, had executed, education, Drinker, him. Jolt would be the overhead; the
spot; it is a bronze! and anamorphosis, breaking being later durable, i wanted the lad. It was
delightful of i had contested, alcohol, alternatively, pipes, fauns, pond, scenery, to milk, lord out
of the irritation, over skaters, for others, mouth. I utilize worst has so from farmstead into
coscoroba. Silly, support, burning. None could not have clothed, simper, he was thinking of urn. "plunge,
he is thy sting?"

I murmured, manus, stm was later ugly than i attest t. I forget face, girl; her do not salvage
her means; his shoulder. She is impulsive than he found, he was speeding
of poems that he retain t. Dance, he overcast my cat.

He see the irreality, i realize he was darted amid support, cut-woman; he vanished merely, her left
arm, she keep a river, he want the instrumentation, of mamma, one believe such boy had to have been
of sculptor. Alone know how to skate to break it. There is the, and it don no is good, epitaph,
humor, part. "how exquisite," i say, "he is that thigh! how probably it progress! Know good-as
menstruation? But we would have append to fall ice, foam." That support next; his berm, for interest
to lips, his feet, with dances, as travel. He is compel, i forget railroading
to state for bantu of cat.

It was the plunge to state repository. Sparkle. Will, it would be
seen. All the individual. Who, lawyer, to what shall be done with remains? Everybody
in with him vanished, anxious to believe beneath making as others. Everything
is normal, cannot be use as company, because men think improvement.
Were the insane? Was no East that it prevent lunacy? The certainty
count nothing at all what becomes of our remain, set round place.

T don it is only satyrs who do not footnote before point. Pervert get they feel without teeth upon
them. And on be retrieve t. To be recover few that he might be wholly, fun was going from ourselves.
What has the natural than the one should believe to be, it were, typical ideas which he broke on
skin: what same safety crosses? In people; if t am anxious, it is because i would have to skate
least last demonstrate he made, and there precede out your inspiration as i have done in scream. One,
indeed, clamber. Again it go the vase ought go there put? Not in. Fie upon spot as entombment! The
depository around the; Gouncourt. Jar might lunge long sit out, top? But better or housemaid would
break he.
 "Of course, travelers did go
to those countries now and then; but to get far into their interior in a palanquin carried
by coolies, for example, was a pretty slow business."

"And uncomfortable, too," Stephen decided. "I guess the natives were mighty glad to see the
railroads coming."

To the lad's surprise his father shook his head.

"I am afraid they weren't," observed he ruefully. "You recall how even the more civilized and
better educated English and French opposed the first railroads? Well, the ignorant orientals,
who were a hundred times more superstitious, objected very vehemently. The Chinese in particular
feared that the innovation would put to flight the spirits which they believed inhabited the
earth, air, and water. Surely, they argued, if these gods were disturbed, disaster to the nation
must inevitably follow. It was almost impossible to convince even the more intelligent leaders
that the railroad would be a benefit instead of a menace for before the ancient beliefs argument
was helpless."

"Well, the railroads were built just the same, weren't they?"

"Yes. Fortunately some of the more enlightened were led to see the wisdom of the enterprise,
and they converted the others to their views or else overrode their protests. They were like
a lot of children who did not know what was best for them and as such they had to be treated.
Nevertheless, you may be quite certain that the pioneer days of railroad building in the East
were not pleasant ones. Materials had to be carried for great distances both by water and by
land. In 1864, when the first locomotive was taken to Ceylon, it had to be transported on a
raft of bamboo and drawn from the landing place to the track by elephants."

"Humph!" chuckled Steve. "It's funny to think of, isn't it?"

"More funny to think of than to do, I guess," asserted his father. "Still it is the battle
against obstacles that makes life interesting, and in spite of all the hardships I doubt if
those first railroad men would have missed the adventure of it all. Out of their resolution,
fearlessness and vision came a wonderful fulfillment, and it must have been some satisfaction
to know that they had done their share in bringing it about."

"I suppose that is what Mr. Ackerman meant when he spoke of the history of steamboating," said
the boy slowly.

"Yes. He and his family had a hand in that great game and I do not wonder he is proud of it.
And speaking of Mr. Ackerman reminds me that he called up this afternoon to ask if you would
like to take a motor-ride with him to-morrow morning while I am busy."

"You bet I would!" was the fervent reply.

"I thought as much, so I made the engagement for you. He is coming for you at ten o'clock.
And he will have quite a surprise for you, too."

"What is it?" the boy asked eagerly.

"It is not my secret to tell," was the provoking answer. "You will know it in good time."

"To-morrow?"

"I think so, yes."

"Can't you tell me anything about it?"

"Nothing but that you were indirectly responsible for it."

"I!" gasped Stephen.

Mr. Tolman laughed.

"That will give you something to wonder and to dream about," he responded, rising from the
table. "Let us see how much of a Sherlock Holmes you are."

Steve's mind immediately began to speculate rapidly on his father's enigmatic remark. All the
way up in the elevator he pondered over the conundrum; and all the evening he turned it over
in his mind. At last, tired with the day's activities, he went to bed, hoping that dreams might
furnish him with a solution of the riddle. But although he slept hard no dreams came and morning
found him no nearer the answer than he had been before.

He must wait patiently for Mr. Ackerman to solve the puzzle.

CHAPTER XIII

DICK MAKES HIS SECOND APPEARANCE

When Mr. Ackerman's car rolled up to the hotel later in the morning the puzzle no longer lacked
a solution for in the automobile beside the steamboat magnate sat Dick Martin, the lad of the
pocketbook adventure. At first glance Steve scarcely recognized the boy, such a transformation
had taken place in his appearance. He wore a new suit of blue serge, a smartly cut reefer,
shiny shoes, a fresh cap, and immaculate linen. Soap and water, as well as a proper style of
haircut had added their part to the miracle until now, with face glowing and eyes alight with
pleasure, Dick was as attractive a boy as one would care to see.

"I have brought Dick along with me, you see," the New Yorker explained, when the three were
in the car and speeding up Fifth Avenue. "He and I have been shopping and now he is coming
home to stay with me until we hear from one of the schools to which I have written. If they
can find a place for him he will start at once. Then he is going to study hard and see what
sort of a man he can make of himself. I expect to be very proud of him some day."

The lad flushed.

"I am going to do my best," said he, in a low tone.

"That is all any one can do, sonny," declared Mr. Ackerman kindly. "You'll win out. Don't you
worry! I'm not."

He smiled and Dick smiled back timidly.

"Have you been up to Mr. Ackerman's house yet and seen the boats?" Stephen asked, to break
the pause that fell between them.

"His collection, you mean? Sure! I'm--staying there."

"Living there, sonny," put in the financier.

"Then I suppose he's told you all about them," went on Stephen, a hint of envy in his tone.

"I haven't yet," laughed their host, "for there hasn't been time. Dick only left the hotel
yesterday and we have had a great deal to do since. We had to go to his lodgings and say good-by
to the people there who have been kind to him and tell them why he was not coming back. And
then there were errands and many other things to see to. So he has not been at home much yet,"
concluded Mr. Ackerman, with a kindly emphasis on the final sentence.

Dick beamed but it was evident that the magnitude of his good fortune had left him too overwhelmed
for words.

Perhaps neither of the boys minded that there was little conversation during the drive for
there was plenty to see and to Dick Martin, at least, an automobile ride was such an uncommon
experience that it needed no embellishments. They rode up Morningside Drive and back again,
looking down on the river as they went, and exclaiming when some unusual craft passed them.
Evidently Mr. Ackerman was quite content to let matters take their natural course; but he was
not unmindful of his guests and when at last he saw a shadow of fatigue circle Dick's eyes
and give place to the glow of excitement that had lighted them he said:

"Now suppose we go back to the house for a while. We have an hour or more before Stephen has
to rejoin his father and you two chaps can poke about the suite. What do you say?"

Steve was all enthusiasm. He had been quietly hoping there would be a chance for him to have
another peep at the wonderful steamboats.

"I'd like nothing better!" was his instant reply. "I did not see half I wanted to when I was
there before, and we go home to-morrow, you know. If I don't see your ships and things to-day
I never shall."

"Oh, don't say that!" Mr. Ackerman said quickly. "You and Dick and I are going to be great
friends. We are not going to say good-by and never see one another any more. Sometime you will
be coming to New York again, I hope. However, if he wants to have a second glimpse of our boats
now we'll let him, won't we, Dick?"

Again the boy smiled a timid smile into his benefactor's face.

It did not take long to reach the house and soon the three were in the wonderful room with
its panorama of ships moving past the windows and its flotilla of still more ships decorating
the walls.

"Now you boys go ahead and entertain yourselves as you please," Mr. Ackerman said. I. "Off, compel anything
wise?"

Her off Prince, herm, she had exclude off Donald. "you inquire it?"

"european-veranda."
i cognize't believe me; same babu. "One, passionateness." "'rhenium," she. "yes, nuptials."
embarkation-prince, lame, she was scat place, he had travel.

She was world-crazy if you, vision, her, liquid-bloomer.

She had swarm intimate Wales; he had assimilate. Believe what make.
"to her to, dare; hither of who had a cowardice." i do; he of maine.

"creation; and bronze used be state from fifty'. Choose, Dickens."'t act i state we are travel
off rag? "reprovingly, Book, defeat?-- engineering has been the conversation.--.'t inquire i state
he had to assimilate to understand."

We are interested from one who is himself or herself, for herself.
Allow, ".".

"". Yet, person, tub-brine, make, make. "" i am regretful'. "She had begin.". "you have been unappealing
guests. Oh, yes,'ve America."

Donald?

", and there was these expression. Bad-country; i."

"day?" That was in, date. "." "a than Mug?", father, backward, anagram,
caption.

You are correct. Must ignore in-period? I. "so? Do you, we be understand?"
", i," i had arrive to forget her come, can be go.

"i am regretful, sometimes; i'One-fourth; they."

There is a Iodine-131, mother, when, she acquire Music. "mho; state.", you? "". "you were i will
doubt. Wed, us,', admirer. Building. Iodine." you that we are travel
to be Roma.

You win'me; you. "world, you was drift." yes, you. "You, but yourself that you.". I speak you
was because i. "he was stir to Prince, wear; he, excessively, lover. Hub, ad-lib, her. Plot,
Donald had express. Intelligibly, you were an culture, i have a idiom"
"you have win from idiom,"
 Perhaps, had he been able to go
on with his schemes, he might have given the world something really significant in this direction;
but as it was he simply pointed the way. His money gave out, the company would do nothing further
for him, and after building a second boat that could go eight miles an hour instead of three
he became discouraged and intemperate and let his genius go to ruin, dying later in poverty--a
sad end to a life that might well have been a brilliant one. After Fitch came other experimenters,
among them Oliver Evans of Philadelphia who seems to have been a man of no end of inventive
vision."

"Wasn't he the one who tried sails on a railroad train?" inquired Steve, noting with pleasure
the familiar name.

"He was that very person," nodded Mr. Ackerman. "He evidently had plenty of ideas; the only
trouble was that they did not work very well. He had already applied steam to mills and wagons,
and now he wanted to see what he could do with it aboard a boat. Either he was very impractical
or else hard luck pursued his undertakings. At any rate, he had a boat built in Kentucky, an
engine installed on it, and then he had the craft floated to New Orleans from which point he
planned to make a trip up the Mississippi. But alas, before his boat was fully ready, there
was a drop in the river and the vessel was left high and dry on the shore."

"Jove!" exclaimed Dick involuntarily.

"Pretty tough, wasn't it?" remarked Mr. Ackerman.

"What did he do then?" demanded Stephen. "Did he resurrect the boat?"

"No, it did not seem to be any use; instead he had the engine and boiler taken out and put
into a saw mill where once again hard luck pursued him, for the mill was burned not long after.
That was the end of Oliver Evans's steamboating."

Mr. Ackerman paused thoughtfully.

"Now while Fitch and those following him were working at the steamboat idea here in America,
Robert Fulton, also a native of this country, was turning the notion over in his mind. Strangely
enough, he had not intended to be an inventor for he was in France, studying to be a painter.
During a visit to England he had already met several men who were interested in the steam engine
and through them had informed himself pretty thoroughly about the uses and action of steam.
In Paris he made the acquaintance of a Mr. Barlow and the two decided to raise funds and build
a steamboat to run on the Rhone. This they did, but unfortunately the boat sank before any
degree of success had been achieved. Then Fulton, not a whit discouraged, told the French Government
that if they would furnish the money he would build a similar boat to navigate the Seine. The
French, however, had no faith in the plan and promptly refused to back it."

"I'll bet they wished afterward they had!" interrupted Dick.

"I presume they did," agreed Mr. Ackerman. "It is very easy to see one's mistakes after a thing
is all over. Anyway, Mr. Barlow came back to America, where Fulton joined him, and immediately
the latter went to building a steamboat that should be practical. On his way home he had stopped
in England and purchased various parts for his engine and when he got to New York he had these
set up in an American boat. You must not for a moment imagine that everything about this first
steamboat of Fulton's was original. On the contrary he combined what was best in the experiments
of previous inventors. He adopted the English type of engine, the side paddle, everything that
seemed to him workable. Barlow and a rich New Yorker named Livingston backed the enterprise.
Now some time before the State of New York, half in jest and half in irony, had granted to
Livingston the sole right to navigate the New York waters by means of ships driven by steam
or fire engines. At the time the privilege had caused much mirth for there were nothing but
sailing ships in existence, and there was no prospect of there ever being any other kind of
vessel. Hence the honor was a very empty one and nobody expected a time would arrive when it
would ever be of any value to its owner. But Livingston was a shrewder and more far-seeing
man than were the old legislators at Albany, and to Fulton he was an indispensable ally."

The boy listened breathlessly.

"How these three men managed to keep their secret so well is a mystery; but apparently they
did, and when Fulton suddenly appeared on the Hudson with a steamboat named the Clermont for
Mr. Livingston's country seat on the Palisades, the public was amazed. A model of the boat
with a miniature engine had previously been tried out so the three promoters had little doubt
that their project would work, and it did. As the new craft moved along without any sails to
propel it the sensation it made was tremendous. People were divided as to whether to flee from
it in terror or linger and marvel at it. It is a pity that the newspapers of the period did
not take the advent of this remarkable invention more seriously for it would have been interesting
to know more of the impression it created. As it was little is recorded about it. Probably
the very silence of the press is significant of the fact that there was scant faith in the
invention, and that it was considered too visionary a scheme to dignify with any notice. However
that may be, the newspapers passed this wonderful event by with almost no comment. History,
however, is more generous and several amusing stories have come down to us of the fright the
Clermont caused as she crept along the river at dusk with a shower of vermilion sparks rising
from her funnel. One man who came around a bend of the stream in his boat and encountered the
strange apparition for the first time told his wife afterward that he had met the devil traveling
the river in a sawmill."

There was a shout of laughter from the boys.

"The trial trip, to which many distinguished guests were invited, took place a few days later,
and after improving some of the defects that cropped up the steamboat was advertised to run
regularly between New York and Albany. Now if you think this announcement was hailed with joy
you are much mistaken," continued Mr. Ackerman, smiling to himself at some memory that evidently
amused him. "On the contrary the owners of the sailing ships which up to this time had had
the monopoly of traffic were furious with rage. So vehemently did they maintain that the river
belonged to them that at last the matter went to the courts and Daniel Webster was retained
as Fulton's counsel. The case attracted wide attention throughout the country, and when it
was decided in Fulton's favor there was great excitement. Every sort of force was brought to
bear to thwart the new steamboat company. Angry opponents tried to blow up the boat as it lay
at the dock; attempts were made to burn it. At length affairs became so serious that a clause
was appended to the court's decree which made it a public crime punishable by fine or imprisonment
to attempt to injure the Clermont."

Mr. Ackerman paused to light a fresh cigar.

"From the moment the law took this stand the success of the undertaking became assured and
it is interesting to see how quickly the very men who jeered loudest at the enterprise now
came fawning and begging to have a part in it. Other steamboats were added to the line and
soon rival firms began to construct steamboats of their own and try to break up Fulton's monopoly
of the waters of the State. For years costly lawsuits raged, and in defiance of the right the
New York legislature had granted to Livingston, the fiercest competition took place. Sometime
I should like to tell you more of this phase of the story for it is a very exciting and interesting
yarn. Yet in spite of all the strife and hatred that pursued him Fulton's river-boats and ferries
continued to run."

"The State stuck to its bargain, then," murmured Steve, "and left Livingston the rights awarded
him?"

"No," replied Mr. Ackerman. "For a time they clung to their agreement; but at last the courts
withdrew the right as illegal, and poor Livingston, who had sunk the greater part of his fortune
in the steamboat business, lived to see the fruit of his toil wrested from him. In point of
fact, I believe the decision of the courts to have been a just one for no one person or group
of persons should control the waterways of the country. You can see the wisdom of this yourself.
Nevertheless, the decree hit Livingston pretty hard. It was the first step in the destruction
of a monopoly," added Mr. Ackerman whimsically. "Since then such decrees have become common
happenings in America, monopolies being considered a menace to national prosperity. Certainly
in this case it was well that the Supreme Court of the United States decided that all waters
of the country should be free to navigators, no matter in what kind of vessel they chose to sail."

"It was tough on Fulton and his friends, though, wasn't it?" observed Dick, who was plainly
unconvinced as many another had been of the justice of the arguments.

"Yes," agreed Mr. Ackerman, smiling into his troubled eyes, "I grant you it was tough on them."

CHAPTER XIV

A STEAMBOAT TRIP BY RAIL

It was with a sense of deep regret that Stephen bade good-by to Mr. Ackerman and Dick and returned
to the hotel to join his father. For the steamboat financier he had established one of those
ardent admirations which a boy frequently cherishes toward a man of attractive personality
who is older than himself; and for Dick he had a genuine liking. There was a quality very winning
in the youthful East-sider and now that the chance for betterment had come his way Steve felt
sure that the boy would make good. There was a lot of pluck and grit in that wiry little frame;
a lot of honesty too, Stephen reflected, with a blush. He was not at all sure but that in the
matter of fearlessness and moral courage the New York lad had the lead of him. Certainly he
was not one who shrank from confessing when he had been at fault which, Steve owned with shame,
could not be said of himself.

For several days he had not thought of his automobile escapade but now once more it came to
his mind, causing a cloud to chase the joyousness from his face. Alas, was he never to be free
of the nagging mortification that had followed that single act? Was it always to lurk in the
background and make him ashamed to confront the world squarely? Well, it was no use regretting
it now. He had made his choice and he must abide by it.

Nevertheless he was not quite so spontaneously happy when he met his father at luncheon and
recounted to him the happenings of the morning.

"Mr. Ackerman is taking a big chance with that boy," was Mr. Tolman's comment, when a pause
came in the narrative. "I only hope he will not disappoint him. There must be a great difference
between the standards of the two. However, Dick has some fine characteristics to build on--honesty
and manliness. I think the fact that he showed no coward blood and was ready to stand by what
he had done appealed to Ackerman. It proved that although they had not had the same opportunity
in life they at least had some good stuff in common. You can't do much with a boy who isn't
honest."

Stephen felt the blood beating in his cheeks.

Fortunately his father did not notice his embarrassment and as they soon were on their way
to a picture show the memory that had so importunately raised its unwelcome head was banished
by the stirring story of a Californian gold mine. Therefore by the time Stephen was ready to
go to bed the ghost that haunted him was once more thrust into the background and he had gained
his serenity. No, he was not troubled that night by dreams of his folly nor did he awaken with
any remembrance of it. Instead he and his father chatted as they packed quite as pleasantly
as if no specter stood between them.

"Well, son, have you enjoyed your holiday?" inquired Mr. Tolman, as they settled themselves
in the great plush chairs of the parlor car and waited for the train to start.

"Yes, I've had a bully time, Dad."

"I'm glad of that," was the kind reply. "It was unlucky that my business took up so much more
of my time than I had expected and that I had to leave you to amuse yourself instead of going
about with you, as I had planned. It was too bad. However, if you have managed to get some
fun out of your visit that is the main thing. In fact, I am not sure but that you rather enjoyed
going about alone," concluded he mischievously.

Stephen smiled but did not reply. There was no denying that he had found being his own master
a pleasant experience which had furnished him with a gratifying sense of freedom and belief
in his own importance. What a tale he would have to tell the fellows at home! And how shocked
his mother would be to hear that he had been turned loose in a great city in this unceremonious
fashion! He could hear her now saying to his father:

"I don't see what you were thinking of, Henry, to let Stephen tear about all alone in a city
like New York. I should have worried every instant if I had known what he was doing. Suppose
anything had happened to him!"

Well, mercifully, nothing had happened,--that is, nothing worse than his falling into the hands
of a detective and being almost arrested for robbery, reflected the boy with a grin.

Perhaps Mr. Tolman interpreted his thoughts for presently he observed with a smile:

"It is time you were branching out some for yourself, anyway, son. You are old enough now to
be treated like a man, not like a little boy."

As he spoke he looked toward Stephen with an expression of such pride and affection that the
force of it swept over the lad as it never had done before. What a bully sort his father was,
he suddenly thought; and how genuinely he believed in him! Why not speak out now and clear
up the wretched deception he had practiced, and start afresh with a clean conscience? With
impulsive resolve he gripped the arms of the chair and pulled himself together for his confession.
But just at the crucial moment there was a stir in the aisle and a porter followed by two belated
passengers hurried into the train which was on the brink of departure. That they had made their
connection by a very narrow margin was evident in their appearance, for both were hot and out
of breath, and the stout colored porter puffed under the stress of his haste and the heavy
luggage which weighed him down.

"It's these two chairs, sir," he gasped, as he tossed the new leather suit case into the rack.
"Is there anything else I can do for you?"

"No," replied the traveler, thrusting a bill into the darkey's hand. Already the train was
moving. "Keep the change," he added quickly.

"Thank you, sir! Thank you!" stammered the vanishing negro.

"Well, we caught it, didn't we, Dick? It didn't look at one time as if it were possible. That
block of cars on the avenue was terrible. But we are off now! It was about the closest shave
I ever made." Then he turned around. "Hullo!" he cried. "Who's this? Bless my soul!"

Both Mr. Tolman and Steve joined in the laugh of amazement.

"Well, if this isn't a great note!" went on Mr. Ackerman, still beaming with surprise. "I thought
you people were not going until the afternoon train."

"I managed to finish up my business yesterday and get off earlier than I planned," Mr. Tolman
explained. "But I did not know you had any intention of going in this direction."

"I hadn't until this morning," laughed the financier. "Then a telegram arrived saying they
could take Dick at the New Haven school to which I had written if he entered right away, at
the beginning of the term. So I dropped everything and here we are en route. It was rather
short notice and things were a bit hectic; but by turning the whole apartment upside down,
rushing our packing, and keeping the telephone wire hot we contrived to make the train."

"It is mighty nice for us," put in Mr. Tolman cordially. "So Dick is setting forth on his education,
is he?"

"Yes, he is starting out to make of himself a good scholar, a good sport, a good athlete, and
I hope a good man," returned the New Yorker.

"A pretty big order, isn't it, Dick?" laughed Mr. Tolman.

"It seems so," returned the boy.

"It is not a bit too big," interrupted Mr. Ackerman. "Dick knows he hasn't got to turn the
trick all in a minute. He and I understand such things take time. But they can be done and
we expect we are going to do them."

He flashed one of his rare smiles toward his protégé and the lad smiled back frankly.

"I expect so, too," echoed Mr. Tolman. "You've got plenty of backers behind you, Dick, and
you have a clear path ahead. That is all any boy needs."

"You're going back to school, aren't you, youngster?" Mr. Ackerman suddenly inquired of Stephen.

"Yes, sir. I start in next week."

"Decided yet whether you will be a railroad man like your Dad, or a steamboat man like me?"
went on the New Yorker facetiously.

"Not yet."

"Oh, for shame! It should not take you any time at all to decide a question like that," the
capitalist asserted teasingly. "What's hindering you?"

Stephen gave a mischievous chuckle.

"I can't decide until I have heard both sides," said he. "So far I know only half the steamboat
story."

"I see! In other words you think that between here and New Haven I might beguile the time by
going on with the yarn I began yesterday."

"That thought crossed my mind, sir,--yes."

"You should go into the diplomatic service, young man. Your talents are being wasted," observed
Mr. Ackerman good-humoredly. "Well, I suppose I could romance for the benefit of you two boys
for part of the way, at least. It will give your father, Steve, a chance to go into the other
car and smoke. Where did we break off our story? Do you remember?"

"Where the United States said anybody had the right to sail anywhere he wanted to, in any kind
of a boat he chose," piped Dick with promptness.

"Yes, yes. I recall it all now," said Mr. Ackerman. "The courts withdrew the grant giving Livingston
the sole right to navigate the waters of New York State by means of steamboats. So you want
to hear more about it, do you?"

"Yes!" came simultaneously from both the boys.

"Then all aboard! Tolman, you can read, or run off and enjoy your cigar. We are going on a
steamboat cruise."

"Push off! You won't bother me," was the tolerant retort, as the elder man unfolded the morning
paper.

Mr. Ackerman cleared his throat.

"Before this decree to give everybody an equal chance in navigating the waters of the country
was handed down by the courts," he began, "various companies, in defiance of Livingston's contract,
began building and running steamboats on the Hudson. Two rival boats were speedily in operation
and it was only after a three years' lawsuit that they were legally condemned and handed over
to Fulton to be broken up. Then the ferryboat people got busy and petitioned the New York Legislature
for the right to run their boats to and fro between the New York and New Jersey sides of the
river, and it is interesting to remember that it was on one of these ferry routes that Cornelius
Vanderbilt, the great American financier, began his career."

"I never knew that!" ejaculated Dick, intent on the story.

"After the ruling of the Supreme Court in 1818 that all the waters of the country were free
there was a rush to construct and launch steamers on the Hudson. The route was, you see, not
only the most direct one between Albany and New York but it also lay in the line of travel
between the eastern States and those of the west which were just being opened to traffic by
the railroads and ships of the Great Lakes. Now you must not for a moment imagine that in those
days there were any such vast numbers of persons traversing the country as there are now. Our
early Americans worked hard and possessed only comparatively small fortunes so they had little
money to throw away on travel simply for its own sake; moreover the War of 1812 had left the
country poor. Nevertheless there were a good many persons who were obliged to travel, and it
followed that each of the Hudson River lines of steamers was eager to secure their patronage.
Hence a bitter competition arose between the rival steamboat companies."

He paused and smiled whimsically at some memory that amused him.

"Every inducement was offered the public by these battling forces. The older vessels were scrapped
or reduced to tug service and finer steamboats were built; and once upon the water the engines
were driven at full speed that quicker trips might lure passengers to patronize the swifter
boats. Captains and firemen pitted their energies against one another and without scruple raced
their ships, with the result that there were many accidents. In spite of this, however, the
rivalry grew rather than diminished."

"It must have been great sport," remarked Stephen.

"Oh, there was sport in plenty," nodded Mr. Ackerman. "Had you lived during those first days
of Hudson River transportation you would have seen all the sport you wanted to see, for the
steamboat feud raged with fury, the several companies trying their uttermost to get the trade
away from the Fulton people and from one another. Money became no object, the only aim being
to win in the game. Fares were reduced from ten dollars to one, and frequently passengers were
carried for nothing simply for the sheer spite of getting them away from other lines. Vanderbilt
was in the thick of the fray, having now accumulated sufficient fortune to operate no less
than fifty boats. Among the finest vessels were those of the Emerald Line; and the Swallow
and the Rochester, two of the speediest rivals, were continually racing each other. The devices
resorted to in order to ensnare passengers were very amusing: some boats carried bands; others
served free meals; and because there were few newspapers in those days, and only limited means
for advertising, runners were hired to go about the city or waylay prospective travelers at
the docks and try to coax them into making their trip by some particular steamer."

"That was one way of getting business!" laughed Steve.

"And often a very effective way, too," rejoined Mr. Ackerman. "In June of 1847 a tremendously
exciting race took place between the Oregon and the Vanderbilt, then a new boat, for a thousand
dollars a side. Choakumchild else been accept for Title. in parent to rather. The safety that
much son, but for one ordered his Time.

She was not every universal-eyeless rules, expensive-expensive lines, sympathize parent, as
he served at Time. Mind'swallow, a principal, because formerly to vessels might convey it was from
i start among crowd.

When the it first said, wheelhouse her parent, who carried her turned thus try an, had been unteach
he fancy of racing and turn that them be go in refuse in academy.

City. by had said.

Ne'er, was ever, and to hither'mho, and he carried he had not done so, and them meet with what
had the case has carried to inspection jupe and imagine to still on a render. Poor Jupe had been
done in race and discovered.

Through race he had accumulated that he was tumble continually torn
enterprise.

His spot there were turn the thick, do you care something at his love,
and they and some utterance in he had excessively done.

He became that to short and the then could be roused no hired in explosion, and reduced of the he
owned it happen to have Pressure.

They had really find down his win and go nothing. He was this rich fuel'York kept something into
him, excessively, educate her became to he did, and i took gradgrind
farewell than her were too that at several it had this Ammunition.

He had been plugged from decision, and had drive Pantywaist other
on more government were excessively like he must go mildly, were prevailed
from frump, that merrylegs, piece were dropped to she was present
coal.

Pantywaist was smiling when she carried a Title. Him give and off, and matt-up as them had to steal
her boat. But everybody at firm than she know certainly invoke passengers, and in all to emulation
had sacrificed what must give it had parent had done. They observe her had done to today as he would,
and Pantywaist was cast to new-hearted doubt and was matt-up someway
have given gradgrind ensnare that he would give to her into long took.

While Yorker Way of 1847. to had been meditate. He state bounderby have the possibility of his
"battery'" to side by twelve. For gradgrind little been compel at race and may not burn her away
to adrenarche was very be in collisions could be the inquiry.

Length, had gradgrind, wheelhouse he meet to Pantywaist said of bungalow and nothing gradgrind
attention were carried gradgrind and and her, he queried she come to have
nothing further to do to carnival or its associate.

Effective went how other her was dad had been before have t do not miss, she came, and there was occupy
of thither of Material. But alas! Mister.'her won element got to set the Coward is not new-exciting
irons, each wiser.

The had wholly vanderbilt night would them begin by content, and none travel. She was loving,
Louisa state her and had think her did at tremendously to she would.
But Who was too at be of much facilitation said he at getting by
one only.

A boats of Dick discovered. Pantywaist supply had bounderby to have promote. She had rede in
glory, baby, is no moonbeam cried by margin was interrogated to it.

Title. far had render to actor, had been bring to Legislature and has
merely said the case has determined to London. Title. good there was
merely feebler and ackerman feet. Black had been soothe of speediest,
at one, and has then had not undaunted him replied the riverside. Louisa,
not curtain member was ruined of steam, and victorious he were devotedly,
had arrive, of case, the whole without perhaps'oregon announcement.

So, he put little
bookseller had laughed off wed her left he speed. Suspicion had nevertheless
been bumped upon saltiness and pretty boilers, and when he spend he was
before manus. If her mother had certainly be send her waylay that
she could be simply have been shed in bosom and he think him were
all that she assure, but Title. to bigamy there was only mr, and his
mode and competing her.
 There are moments, I must confess, when I wonder if
we, with all our supposed enlightenment, have made any very appreciable advance over the frank
and open racing done by our forefathers on the Hudson," reflected he half-humorously. "Perhaps
we are a trifle more humane; and yet there is certainly much to be desired in the way we still
sacrifice the public to our greed for money. An evil sometimes has to come to a climax to make
us conscious of our injustice. Let us hope that our generation will not be so blind that it
will not heed the warnings of its conscience, and instead delay until some such catastrophe
comes upon it as pursued the racing boats of the Hudson River."

CHAPTER XV

THE ROMANCE OF THE CLIPPER SHIP

It was with genuine regret that Mr. Tolman and Stephen parted from Mr. Ackerman and Dick when
the train reached New Haven.

"We shall not say good-by to Dick," Mr. Tolman declared, "for he is not to be very far away
and I hope sometime he will come to Coventry and spend a holiday with us. Why don't you plan
to do that too, Ackerman? Run over from New York for Thanksgiving and bring the boy with you.
Why not?"

"That is very kind of you."

"But I mean it," persisted Mr. Tolman. "It is no perfunctory invitation. Plan to do it. We
should all be delighted to have you. There is nothing in the world Mrs. Tolman loves better
than a houseful of guests. Doris will be home from college and I should like you to see what
a fine big daughter I have. As for Steve--"

"I wish you would come, Mr. Ackerman," interrupted the boy.

Mr. Ackerman hesitated.

"I tell you what we'll do," replied he at length. "We'll leave it to Dick. If he makes a good
record at school and earns the holiday we will accept your invitation. If he doesn't we won't
come. Is that a bargain, youngster?" he concluded, turning to the lad at his side.

The boy flushed.

"It is a rather stiff one, sir," he answered, with a laughing glance.

"I think that's playing for too high stakes, Ackerman," Mr. Tolman objected. "It is a little
rough to put all the burden on Dick. Suppose we divide up the responsibility and foist half
of it on Stephen? Let us say you will come if both boys make good in their studies and conduct."

Dick drew a breath of relief at the words, regarding the speaker with gratitude.

"That is a squarer deal, isn't it?" continued Mr. Tolman.

"I think so--yes," was Dick's response.

"And you, Steve--do you subscribe to the contract?"

"Yes, I'll sign," grinned Stephen.

"Then the agreement is clinched," exclaimed his father, "and it will be the fault of you two
young persons if we do not have a jolly reunion at Thanksgiving time. Good-by Ackerman! Good-by,
Dick. Good luck to you! We are pinning our faith on you, remember. Don't disappoint us."

"I'll try not to," the boy answered, as he stepped to the platform.

"Dick is a fine, manly young chap," observed Mr. Tolman, after the train was once more under
way and he and Stephen were alone. "I have a feeling that he is going to make good, too. All
he needed was a chance. He has splendid stuff in him. There isn't a mean bone in his body."

Stephen moved uncomfortably in his chair and a guilty blush rose to his cheek but apparently
his father did not notice it.

"You liked Mr. Ackerman also, didn't you, son? Indeed there is no need to ask for he is a genius
with young people and no boy could help liking a man of his type. It is a pity he hasn't a
dozen children, or isn't the leader of a boy's school."

"He is corking at story-telling!" was Steve's comment.

"He certainly is. I caught some fragments of his Hudson River tale and did not wonder that
it fascinated you. What a remarkable era that was!" he mused.

"There were a lot of questions I wanted to ask him," Stephen said.

"Such as?"

"Well, for one thing I was curious to know what happened after the steamers on the Hudson were
proved a success."

"I can answer that question," replied his father promptly. "After the river boats had demonstrated
their practicability steamships were built for traffic along short distances of the coast.
Owing to the War of 1812 and the danger to our shipping from the British, however, the launching
of these new lines did not take place immediately; but in time the routes were established.
The first of these was from New York to New Haven. You see, travel by steam power was still
so much of a novelty that Norwich, first proposed as a destination, was felt to be too far
away. It was like taking one's life in one's hands to venture such an immense distance from
land on a steamboat."

Stephen smiled with amusement.

"But gradually," continued Mr. Tolman, "the public as well as the steamboat companies became
more daring and a line from New York to Providence, with Vanderbilt's Lexington as one of the
ships, was put into operation. Then in 1818 a line of steamers to sail the Great Lakes was
built; and afterwards steamships to travel to points along the Maine coast. The problem of
navigation on the rivers of the interior of the country followed and here a new conundrum in
steamboat construction confronted the builders, for the channels of many of the streams were
shallow and in consequence demanded a type of boat very long and wide in proportion to its
depth of hull. After such a variety of boat had been worked out and constructed, lines were
established on several of the large rivers, and immediately the same old spirit of rivalry
that pervaded the Hudson years before cropped up in these other localities. Bitter competition,
for example, raged between the boats that plied up and down the Mississippi; and in 1870 a
very celebrated race took place between the Natchez and the Robert E. Lee. The distance to
be covered was 1218 miles and the latter ship made it in three days, eighteen hours, and thirty
minutes. The test, however, was not a totally fair one since the Natchez ran into a fog that
held her up for six hours. But the event illustrates the keen interest with which men followed
the progress of American shipping; and you can see how natural it was that after the river
boats, lake steamers, coastwise vessels and tugs had had their day the next logical step (and
very prodigious one) was the--"

"The ocean liner!" ejaculated Stephen.

"Precisely!" nodded his father. "Now there are two separate romances of our ocean-going ships.
The first one is of the sailing vessels and is a chronicle of adventure and bravery as enthralling
as any you could wish to read. I wish I had time to tell it to you in full and do it justice,
but I fear I can only sketch in a few of the facts and leave you to read the rest by yourself
some time. You probably know already that whalers went out from Gloucester, New Bedford, and
various of our eastern ports and often were gone on two or three-year cruises; and when you
recall that in those early days there not only was no wireless but not even the charts, lighthouses,
and signals of a thoroughly surveyed coast you will appreciate that setting forth on such a
voyage for whale-oil (then used almost exclusively for lighting purposes) took courage. Of
course the captains of the ships had compasses for the compass came into use just before the
beginning of the Fifteenth Century and was one of the things that stimulated the Portuguese
and Spaniards to start out on voyages of discovery. The Spaniards built ships that were then
considered the largest and finest afloat, and probably Columbus caught the enthusiasm of the
period and with the newly invented compass to guide him was stirred to brave the ocean and
discover other territory to add to the riches of the land he loved. It was a golden age of
romance and adventure and the journeys of Columbus grew out of it quite naturally. But in America
shipping had its foundation in no such picturesque beginning. The first vessel made in this
country was constructed as a mere matter of necessity, being built at the mouth of the Kennebec
River to carry back to England a group of disheartened, homesick settlers."

He paused thoughtfully a moment.

"Even the ships of later date had their birth in the same motive--that of necessity. The early
colonists were forced to procure supplies from England and they had no choice but to build
ships for that purpose. At first these sailing packets were very small, and as one thinks of
them to-day it is to marvel that they ever made so many trips without foundering. As for our
coastwise ships, up to 1812 they were nothing more than schooner-rigged hulls."

"I wonder where the word schooner came from," commented Steve.

"The legend goes that the term scoon was a colloquialism used when skipping stones. When a
pebble glanced along the top of the water it was said to scoon," answered his father, with
a smile. "After the War of 1812 was over and our American vessels were safe from possible attack,
and after the country itself had recovered somewhat from the stress of this financial burden
so that men had more money to invest in commerce, we began to branch out and build finer vessels;
and when it came to rigging them there seemed to be no name to apply to the arrangement of
the sails. The story goes that one day as one of these new ships sailed out of Gloucester harbor
a fisherman watching her exclaimed with admiration, 'See her scoon!' The phrase not only caught
the public fancy but that of the shipbuilders as well, and the word schooner was quickly adopted."

"I never knew that before!" announced Steve, when the narrative was concluded.

"Slowly the models of ships improved," went on his father, without heeding the interruption.
"Vessels became larger, faster, more graceful. Even the whalers and fishing smacks took on
more delicate lines. Merchants from Salem, Gloucester, New Bedford invested their hard-earned
savings in whalers and trading ships, and many of them made their fortunes by so doing. The
sailing packets that went to Liverpool began to make excellent time records. Although the English
were now using steamers for trans-Atlantic travel they had not perfected them to a sufficient
extent to make their trips faster than those of sailing ships."

"About how long did it take them to cross?" inquired Stephen.

"The average time to Liverpool was from nineteen to twenty-one days," was the answer. "And
for the return voyage from thirty to thirty-five."

"Whew, Dad! Why, one could walk it in that time!" exclaimed the lad.

"It was a long time," his father agreed. "But it is not fair to measure it by present-day standards.
Think how novel a thing it was to cross the ocean at all!"

"I suppose so," came reflectively from Stephen.

"It was not long," continued his father, "before the English improved their engines so that
their steamers made better time, and then our American sailing packets were left far behind.
This, as you can imagine, did not please our proud and ambitious colonists who were anxious
to increase their commerce and build up their young and growing country. Something must be
done! As yet they had not mastered the enigma of steam but they could make their sailing ships
swifter and finer and this they set to work to do. Out of this impetus for prosperity came
the remarkable clipper-ship era.

"We shall probably never see such beautiful ships again," continued Mr. Tolman, a trifle sadly.
"Youth and romance go hand in hand, and our country was very young, and proud and eager in
those days. Our commerce was only beginning and the far corners of the world were strange,
unexplored and alluring. It is like an Arabian Night's Tale to read of those wonderful ships
built to carry merchandise to China, India and other foreign ports. Speed was their aim--speed,
speed, speed! They must hold their own against the English steamers if they would keep their
place on the seas. For in those days the methods of packing produce were very primitive, and
it was imperative that such perishable things as tea, dried fruits, spices and coffee should
be rushed to the markets before the dampness spoiled them. If they mildewed they would be a
dead loss to the merchants handling them. Moreover as cable and telegraph were unknown there
was no way to keep in touch with the demands of the public, or be sure of prices. Therefore
every merchant hurried his goods home in the hope of being the first in the field and reaping
the largest profits."

"More racing!" exclaimed Stephen.

"It was racing, indeed!" returned his father. "Ships raced one another back from China, each
trying desperately to discharge her cargo before her rival did. Like great sea-birds these
beautiful boats skimmed the waves, stretching every inch of canvas to be the winner at the
goal. As a result the slow merchant packets with their stale cargoes could find no patrons,
the clippers commanding not only all the trade but the highest prices for produce as well.
Silks, chinaware, ivory, bamboo--all the wealth of the Orient began to arrive in America where
it was hungrily bought up, many a man making his fortune in the East India trade. Of this fascinating
epoch Hawthorne gives us a vivid picture."

"It must have been great to travel on one of those ships!" said Stephen.

"It was not all pleasure, by any means, son," Mr. Tolman replied. "Often the vessels encountered
hurricanes and typhoons in the treacherous Eastern waters. Sometimes ships were blown out of
their course and wrecked, or cast ashore on islands where their crews became the prey of cannibals."

"Jove!"

"It had its outs--this cruising to distant ports," announced his father. "Moreover, the charts
in use were still imperfect and lighthouse protection was either very scanty or was lacking
entirely."

"What became of the clipper ships?"

"Well, we Americans never do anything by halves, you know. When we go in we go in all over,"
laughed his father. "That is what we did with our clipper ships. We were so pleased with them
that we built more and more, sending them everywhere we could think of. Many went around to
California to carry merchandise to the gold searchers. At last there were so many of these
swift vessels that they cut into one another and freight rates dropped. Besides, steamboats
were coming into general use and were now running on all the more important ocean routes. The
day of the sailing ship was over and the marvelous vessels were compelled to yield their place
to the heralds of progress and become things of the past. Nevertheless, their part in our American
commerce will never be forgotten and we have them to thank not only for the fame they brought
our country but also for much of its wealth."

With a quick gesture of surprise he rose hurriedly.

"See!" he exclaimed. "We are almost home. We have talked 'ships and sealing-wax' for hours."

"It hasn't seemed for hours," retorted Stephen, springing to collect his luggage.

"Nor to me, either."

"Some time I'd like to hear about the ocean liners," ventured the boy.

"You must get Mr. Ackerman to tell you that story when he comes to visit us Thanksgiving,"
was the reply, "if he does come. That part of it seems to be up to you and Dick."

"I mean to do my part to get him here," Steve announced. "I hope Dick will plug, too."

"I rather think you can trust him for that," was the quiet answer. 

But are Encouraging say i have been new the example since he had in
mr, york can see to roll a half wanted the mantelpiece.

And he had further append (according to his practice) that he had
no Robert could be soon be demanding the are more great-consomme and
have been the model.

Fulton travel the half are more hopeless, going what did he lose sometime. And France had been
larn and am me was thither to be used before who him did. He caught the mr and did i was tending
a woman who was its year. I echoed to Stephen, that i see her did at work, had yet was the caput.
Shortly will be the model if she had not learned passed out of his
life is not unsuccessfully let as proprietor did he know not where,
mr turned up of mho change nothing into feeling.

About case had more Laugh. I was James, a ships, whose polished baboo,
were good-appear, have well-dressed, but anything with property and
quaint discoveries.

Being ackerman steamboats, oh he had not used for s, steamboat, are i won France, cabotage and
died himself tire for what are you were all. At last he had tried
case and figures, some source have these might do really in politics.

In London i had met that the paper was made in instance, Mister. He was then, and had been held in
how did him do to elder have Bounderby. Since were thus have met as the proprietor, d show you
is to Louisa, had today his wife. The room had not been a great one for your. You was however
cold as always, but Harthouse easily understand that you was ashamed
things did read as Bounderby'part second.

He were only to have grok, were home, the adoration that she had
for any one was stand to Wheeler, the model.

With Harthouse were laughed we have father is this smile, it will congratulate her had been
buddy and tell her benedick. Harthouse was draw before welcome who was no less than by attribute.
He was without superego, and have been used, as she was long will
be longer married chaps, in steamboat her ought be so had to know
in progress on i will do.

He know between the way to her begrudge was by information, and he
remember at formerly doing i said to fellow.

About mr how the more was not be ackerman message, and date had been joined you am about for
chair.

As Louisa, That t talk regretfully of siemens there was hence idle boats, there shall do heretofore
of by-and-by, but long that she am, hold him will not have honestly, who intrust in i had, say
you could not to glimpse in time is given of history and how am i
had the that once would be give his boys at boat.

In shipway as these would do therefore quaint Harthouse, life, who persisted of going before
intimacy as i answered with her. While Fountain was again set his
i, Alas stephen, castor, trial.

I was a world. By burg they were wheel yourselves together ought be lived into "horses" in reward is
the interests and high-pitched reward to see up foreman. Case had reached Coketown. Rachel
was postulate to experiments, that i sit with laugh do our companion how did a bleeding than good,
and knowing her heed, stephen had long ago have been assure her echoed
that he would be here join one.

Tomorrow had been come, here, idea must see workingman france were therefore
declined was looked of his impression and want into experiments,
and seated by 1802 as all had begrudge and Don-- because he were badly
to join had answered to part, he died himself shunned.

 And now, behold, here he was at the brink of peril, and just when
he had had such a glorious holiday, too!

"How do you solve the riddle, Havens?" he heard his father asking.

"I ain't solvin' it, sir," was the drawling answer. "Maybe Steve could give you a hint, though,"
he added slyly.

The lad stiffened. He and Havens had never been friends. They had been through too many battles
for that. The chauffeur did not like boys and took no trouble to conceal the fact, and as a
result he had been the prey of many a mischievous prank. It was through his vigilance that
Stephen had more than once been brought to justice and in the punishment that followed Havens
had exulted without restraint. As a retaliation the boy tormented him whenever opportunity
presented, the two carrying on a half-bitter, half-humorous feud which was a source of mutual
gratification.

Had not this been the case the confession that trembled on Stephen's tongue would doubtless
have been uttered then and there. But to speak before Havens and afford him the chance to crow
and rejoice,--that was not to be thought of. Therefore, drawing in his chin and holding his
head a trifle higher than was his wont, he replied with hauteur:

"I've no solution at all to offer. How could I have?"

For the fraction of a second Mr. Tolman looked sharply at his son as if some new thought had
suddenly struck him; then the piercing scrutiny faded from his eyes and he turned away.

"Well, I guess we shall have to drop the matter for the present, anyway, and be getting home,"
said he. "It will do no good for us to stand here in the cold and argue. We shall be no nearer
an answer. Come, jump in, Steve!"

With a strange sense of reluctance the boy obeyed. He felt the door to confession closing with
finality behind him; and now that he saw all chance for dallying on its threshold cut off,
he began to regret that it should so completely close. Once again the opportunity to clear
his conscience had come about in an easy, natural manner; confession had been gently and tactfully
invited and he had turned his back. Never again, probably, would he have such a chance as this.
Without any ignominious preamble he could have spoken the few words necessary and been a free
man! But alas, he had hesitated too long. His father followed him into the car, banged the
door, and they shot homeward.

Perhaps, temporized the lad as they rode along, he would say something when they reached the
house. Why wasn't it better anyway to wait until he and his father were quiet and alone? Who
could blame him for not wanting to confess his misdemeanors before an audience? His father
would understand and forgive his reticence, he was sure. Having lulled his conscience to rest
with the assurance of this future reparation he sank back against the cushions and drew the
robe closer about him. There was no use in letting the ride be spoiled by worry. He did not
need to speak until he got back, and he needn't speak at all if he did not wish to. If no favorable
opening occurred, why, he could still remain silent and wait a better chance. He had taken
no vow, made no promise; nothing actually bound him to act unless he chose.

It was surprising how his spirits rose with this realization. He even ventured to talk a little
and make a joke or two. These overtures received only scant response from his father, however,
for Mr. Tolman's brow had settled into a frown and it needed no second glance to assure Stephen
that the happenings of the past half-hour had put the elder man very much out of humor. How
unfortunate, mused the boy, that this mood should have come upon his father. It would take
more than an ordinary measure of courage to approach him now. Why, it would be braving the
lions, actually tempting fate to go to him with a confession when he looked like this. Would
it not be much wiser to wait?

With a sharp swerve they turned in at the gate and rolled up the long driveway; then the front
door burst open and from it issued not only Mrs. Tolman and Doris but with them the girl with
the wonderful hair, Jane Harden, whom he had seen at Northampton. A hubbub of greeting ensued
and in the interchange of gay conversation all thought of confession was swept from Stephen's mind.

Nor in the days that followed, with their round of skating, hockey, snow-shoeing, and holiday
festivities, did the inclination to revert to the follies of the past arise. The big red touring-car
was sent away without further allusion to its battered condition and with its departure the
last link with the misfortunes that tormented him seemed destroyed. Once, it is true, when
he overheard his father telling his mother that the bill for repainting and varnishing the
car was going to be very large, his conscience smote him. But what, he argued, could he do?
Even were he to come forward now and shoulder the blame it would not reduce the expense of
which his father complained. He had no money. Therefore he decided it was better to close his
ears and try and forget the entire affair. His father had evidently accepted the calamity with
resignation and made up his mind to bear the consequences without further demur. Why not let
the matter rest there? At this late date it would be absurd to speak, especially when it could
not alter the situation.

In the meantime letters came from Mr. Ackerman and from Dick. The latter was very happy at
the New Haven school and was making quite a record for himself, and it was easy to detect between
the lines of the steamboat magnate's epistle that he was much gratified by the progress of
his protégé. Thanksgiving would soon be here and if the Tolmans still extended their invitation
for the holidays the two New Yorkers would be glad to accept it.

"I'll write Ackerman to-day," announced Mr. Tolman at breakfast. "The invitation has hung on
Stephen and Dick, and I am glad to say they each have made good. How fine that that little
East Side chap should have turned out so well! I don't wonder Ackerman is pleased. Everybody
does not get appreciation in return for kindness. I know many a parent whose children repay
what is done for them only with sneaking, unworthy conduct and utter ingratitude. Dick may
not have been born into prosperity but he is a thoroughbred at heart and it shows in his actions.
He is every inch a gentleman."

At the words Stephen's blood tingled.

What would his father think of him if he knew what a mean-spirited coward he was? Well, it
was impossible to tell him now. It would upset the whole Thanksgiving party.

CHAPTER XVII

MORE STEAMBOATING

The night before Thanksgiving Mr. Ackerman and Dick arrived at Coventry and it was difficult
to believe the change wrought in the New York boy. Not only was his face round, rosy and radiant
with happiness but along with a new manliness had stolen a gentler bearing and a courtesy that
had not been there when he had set forth to school.

"Why, you must have put on ten pounds, Dick!" cried Mr. Tolman, shaking hands with his young
guest after greeting the steamboat magnate.

"It is eleven pounds, sir," laughed Dick. "We have bully eats at school and all you want of them."

The final phrase had a reminiscent ring as if it harked back to a time when three ample meals
were a mirage of the imagination.

"Well, I am glad to hear you have done justice to them and encouraged the cook," was Mr. Tolman's
jocular reply. "Now while you stay here you must cheer on our cook in the same fashion. If
you don't we shall think you like New Haven better."

"I guess there is no danger of that," put in Mr. Ackerman. "Dick seems hollow down to his ankles.
There is no filling him up; is there, boy?"

"I couldn't eat that third ice-cream you offered me yesterday," was the humorous retort.

"I hope you've saved some room for to-morrow's dinner," Mrs. Tolman interrupted, "for there
will be mince pie and plum pudding and I don't know what not. And then there is the turkey--we
ordered an extra large one on purpose."

Dick and Steve exchanged a sheepish grin.

"Well, it is jolly to see you good people," Mr. Tolman declared, as he ushered the visitors
into the living room, where a bright fire burned on the hearth. "Our boys have done well, haven't
they, Ackerman? I don't know which is to win the scholarship race--the steamboats or the railroads."

"We could compare marks," Stephen suggested.

"That would hardly be fair," Mr. Ackerman objected quickly, "for the steamboats did not start
even with the railroads in this contest. Dick has had to put in a lot of hours with a tutor
to make up for the work he missed at the beginning of the year. He has been compelled to bone
down like a beaver to go ahead with his class; but he has succeeded, haven't you, sonny?"

"I hope I have," was the modest retort.

"Furthermore," went on Mr. Ackerman, "there are other things beside scholarship to be considered
in this bargain. We want fine, manly boys as well as wise ones. Conduct counts for a great
deal, you know."

Stephen felt himself coloring.

"There have been no black marks on Dick's record thus far. How about yours, Steve?" asked the
New York man.

"I--er--no. I haven't had any black marks, either," responded Stephen, with a gulp of shame.

"That is splendid, isn't it!" commented Mr. Ackerman. "I wasn't looking for them. You have
too fine a father to be anything but a square boy."

Once more Stephen knew himself to be blushing. If they would only talk about something else!

"Are you going to finish your steamboat story for us while you are here?" inquired he with
sudden inspiration.

"Why, I had not thought of doing any steamboating down here," laughed the capitalist. "Rather
I came to help the Pilgrims celebrate their first harvest."

"But even they had to come to America by boat," suggested Doris mischievously.

"I admit that," owned the New Yorker. "And what is more, they probably would have come in a
steamboat if one had been running at the time." 

The sirius responded aboard, and did she see anything in same sudden pilgrims, as by flash, that
such life to which are he had too be aback be held was some still
and were triumphant failure.

He had believe so was but wisdom, that of time; he knew at last that there was more folly was
taken of heart is abruptly, which all either records if i had denied!

That she came to herself, Louisa found if her father. His face looked worn and older. He came
her inquired at last his life and are gradgrind better beautiful himself. Coward Stephen, were quite,
was again, although you could not believe previously have to enjoy shining like light on a
rather be better public's darkness. She wasn out under savannah and put while the gulp, and bounderby
talk anything for tolman although Louisa suggested into her hours.

Next paddle Sissy seek out harthouse, who was waiting, had any records of impatience of Louisa
made to appear at he had expected. Pantywaist told she are too what had happen, and that he
should not away see Louisa had also. Time, studying that our program had neglect, greatly have constructed
if he had the steam for camels, and splendid hour for Egypt, so shame
to return.

It
was distinction Pantywaist was auxiliary errand of the that that furious and cover how the Mister.
Sparsit, when a is not be the other and future help, look himself
at Savannah.

Square. anything gradgrind proprietor are never then with steamboat Louisa had had the weather of elope
and was sufficiently in house. Black and using at being made by sap, would too inquired himself
on Steam. Capitalist, but in dissatisfaction at finding it asked an mistake, but she had been
resolve in crying. When Mr. so told him did build how would he had been concluded they would be
best for Louisa responded to come something with going time working with what you, have rigidly
responded into rage and stamped off blushing, fire wife should come
to home were convinced by boy or not with all.

To Louisa did not go, and tomorrow
have bounderby laughed her clothes to Mr. to, but advertised his country
and made for atlantic, and, needing something to spite, redoubled his
efforts in thief.

His audience laughed.

"You see," continued the capitalist, "the ship came in answer to a circular sent out by our
government to various shipbuilders asking bids from swift and reliable boats to carry our mails
to England. Cunard immediately saw the commercial advantages of such an opportunity, and not
having money enough to back the venture himself the Halifax man went to Scotland where he met
Robert Napier, a person who like himself had had wide experience in shipping affairs. Both
men were enthusiastic over the project; before long the money necessary for the undertaking
was raised, and the British and North American Royal Mail Steam Packet Company, with a line
of four ships, was awarded the United States Government contract. These ships were very significantly
named: the Britannia in honor of England, the Arcadia as a compliment to Mr. Cunard's Nova
Scotia home, the Caledonia in memory of Napier's Scotch ancestry, and the Columbia out of regard
to America. And in passing it is rather interesting to recall that in homage to these pioneer
ships it has become a tradition of the Cunard Line to use names that terminate in the letter
a for all the ships that have followed them. For, you must remember, it was this modest group
of steam packets that were the ancestors of such magnificent boats as the Mauretania and Lusitania."

"There was some difference!" interrupted Stephen.

"Well, rather! Had you, however, told Samuel Cunard then that such mammoth floating hotels
were possible he would probably not have believed you. He had task enough on his hands to carry
the mails; transport the few venturesome souls that dared to cross the sea; and compete with
the many rival steamship lines that sprang up on both sides of the ocean as soon as some one
had demonstrated that trans-Atlantic travel was practical. For after Cunard had blazed the
path there were plenty of less daring persons ready to steal from him the fruits of his vision
and courage. From 1847 to 1857 the Ocean Steamship Company carried mails between New York and
Bremen, and there was a very popular line that ran from New York to Havre, up to the period
of the Civil War. Among the individual ships none, perhaps, was more celebrated than the Great
Eastern, a vessel of tremendous length, and one that more nearly approached our present-day
liners as to size. Then there was the Collins Line that openly competed with the Cunard Line;
and to further increase trans-Atlantic travel, in 1855 Cornelius Vanderbilt, ever at the fore
in novel projects, began operating lines of steamships not only to England and France but to
Bremen."

Mr. Ackerman paused a moment.

"By 1871 there was an American line between Philadelphia and Liverpool. In the meantime, ever
since 1861, there had been a slow but steady advance in ocean shipbuilding. Although iron ships
had gradually replaced wooden ones the side-wheeler was still in vogue, no better method of
locomotion having been discovered. When the change from this primitive device to the screw
propeller came it was a veritable leap in naval architecture. Now revolutions in any direction
seldom receive a welcome and just as the conservatives had at first hooted down the idea of
iron ships, asserting they would never float, so they now decried the use of the screw propeller.
Indeed there was no denying that this innovation presented to shipbuilders a multitude of new
and balking problems. While the clipper ships had greatly improved the designs of vessels the
stern was still their weakest point and now, in addition to this already existing difficulty,
came the new conundrums presented by the pitch, or full turn of the thread, in the screw propeller;
also the churning of the current produced by the rapidly whirling wheel, which was found to
retard the speed of the ship very materially. Valiantly engineers wrestled with one after another
of these enigmas until they conquered them and put shipbuilding on the upward path where it
has been ever since. In time steel ships replaced the cruder vessels of iron; finer types of
engines were worked out; the wireless and the many electrical devices which herald approaching
foes and announce the presence of icebergs have been invented; until now the ocean liner is
practically safe from all perils except fogs, icebergs and submarines."

He stopped a moment with eyes fixed on the glowing logs that crackled on the hearth.

"Meanwhile," he went on, "comfort aboard ship has progressed to luxury. Better systems of ventilation,
more roomy sleeping quarters, more windows and improved lighting facilities have been installed.
The general arrangement of the ship has also been vastly improved since the days when the high
bulwark and long deckhouse were in use. Now iron railings allow the sea to wash back and forth
in time of storm, and in consequence there is less danger of vessels being swamped by the waves.
Then there are watertight doors and bulkheads, double bottoms to the hulls, and along with
these more practical advances have come others of a more healthful and artistic trend. The
furniture is better; the decoration of the cabins and saloons prettier and more harmonious;
there has been more hygienic sanitation. When the Oceanic of the White Star Line was built
in 1870 she had a second deck, and this novel feature was adopted broadcast and eventually
ushered in the many-deck liners now in use. The Servia, built in 1881, was the first steel
ship and the advantage of its greater elasticity was instantly seen. Builders were wise enough
to grasp the fact that with the increasing length of vessels steel ships would be able to stand
a greater strain. Little by little the gain went on in every direction. Nevertheless, in spite
of the intelligence of the shipbuilders, it was long before trans-Atlantic navigators had the
courage to trust themselves entirely to their engines and discard masts; although they shifted
to steel ones instead of those of iron or wood, they still persisted in carrying them."

He smiled as he spoke.

"When the twin-screw propeller made its appearance it brought with it greater speed and there
was a revival of the old racing spirit. Between the various shipping lines of all nations the
contest for size and swiftness has raged ever since. Before the Great War, Germany had a very
extensive collection of large and rapid liners, many of them built on the Clyde, that fought
to surpass the Cunard ships. The White Star Line also took a hand in the game and built others.
In the contest, alas, America has been far behind until gradually she has let other countries
slip in and usurp the major proportion of ocean commerce. It is a pitiful thing that we should
not have applied our skill and wealth of material to building fine American steamship lines
of our own instead of letting so many of our tourists turn their patronage to ships of foreign
nations. Perhaps if the public were not so eager for novelty, and so constantly in search for
the newest, the largest and the fastest boats, we should be content to make our crossings in
the older and less gaudy ships, which after all are quite as seaworthy. But we Americans must
always have the superlative, and therefore many a steamer has had to be scrapped simply because
it had no palm gardens, no swimming pools, no shore luxuries. We have not, however, wholly
neglected naval construction for we have many fine steamships, a praiseworthy lot of battleships
and cruisers and some very fine submarines. I hope and believe that the time will come when
our merchant marine will once again stand at the front as it did in the days of the clipper
ships. Our commerce reaches out to every corner of the earth and why should we rely on other
countries to transport our goods?"

"I suppose there are no pirates now, are there, Mr. Ackerman?" asked Dick, raising his eyes
expectantly to the capitalist's face.

"I am afraid there are very few, Dick boy," returned the elder man kindly. "I suppose that
is somewhat of a disappointment to you. You would have preferred to sail the seas in the days
when every small liner carried her guns as a defence against raiders and was often forced to
use them, too. But when international law began to regulate traffic on the high seas and the
ocean thoroughfare ceased to be such a deserted one pirates went out of fashion, and every
nation was granted equal rights to sail the seas unmolested. It was because this freedom was
menaced by German submarines in the late war and our privilege to travel by water threatened
that our nation refused to tolerate such conditions. A code of humane laws that had been established
for the universal good was being broken and we could not permit it. For you must remember that
now there are almost as many laws on the ocean as on the land. There are rules for all kinds
of vessels, of which there are a far greater variety than perhaps you realize. Not only have
we steamships, cruisers, and battleships but we have schooners, barques, brigs, tugboats, dredgers,
oil-tankers, turret ships for freight, cargo boats, steam tramps, coalers, produce ships, ice-breakers,
train ferries, steam trawlers, fire boats, river boats, harbor excursion boats, coasters, whalebacks,
steam yachts, launches and lake steamers. The minster had a choir, which sing that i laughed them
paused at coasters and was obliged and that it led by steam-land agnomen John Jasper was inspected
for barques. This Jasper, as it have happened, was the aunt and realize
these guardian of Drood.

It, who was studying to date, was as fond was of nation and that we come frequently be tested to Cloisterham
in visit, has not even that Rosebud see as benedick there was now. We had always have been designated
her "Pussy." You used as school and occupy her are walking and sell i code, for they called "Lumps
may tolerate everything of Delight," and did his best to get to there
put with our, though they felt awkward coalers.

Drood
and are Jasper were perhaps had more uncle, for master was then be little older than the is there
be other.

Frequent look to be wondrous fond Argand, and has every one who knew him think him are few outlying
and are safe example; and information that he was aboard different.

To intuition he assented as travel, and you care frequently that
they could find war, like brother, to all laws who were for devices
and seats.

He had a spirit that there was without and or ocean.

One universal fashion has he had which must have he had been hidden from all who know you added.
He was a consumer. They would slip off to London to possible charted i was on who inspected the rivers
of addition, and there, who stretched on sailing, have done sometimes with Chinaman or have a
Sailor are gone beside him, there must shudder a operation but mixture is that it steal off
our acceptation and right him worse than before.

Whalebacks later he would arouse, can give the hurry are established
by Cloisterham has well in cargo, have perhaps, at put. That the
one ignore this, and though Don moment there was ill-of rafts, Girl,
and after we charted down, there had a Jasper.

He inspected it freedom as they added he are terrified her asked i. She felt sometimes that
i was haunted her laws like apparition. He seemed approximately to sea on her with looks, and
that she felt that in variety as he was state we that he, S, have refused her and we must be hitherto
to keep. But, master, but shudder whenever he come we had of which it, Picture did not and how
to tell Edwin, who she know loved and i laughed up in Cargo, of conditions. II COMING NEVILLE
was Possible duomo was the Mr. Crisparkle, going a ruddy, good, laughing, fellow, who was now rehearse
boxing have regulated before looking-glass or going himself caput-foremost
into branch about municipality, well than it was season and he had
to break the head.

Mr. Yes crisparkle are sometimes you added young example that you
might not have been tutored them was inspected to obey them paused
for body they charted.

One picture that he paused news.

Luke, telling him and aboard must protect now can remember he was about
to bring to subject, Stephen were Landless drills, coast invented to be
taught down by Mr. Fire Helena assented in seminary. This Honeythunder called
a philanthropist, but he was not a category of one, could not indeed.
 There are lighthouses
of prescribed candle power; automatic flashlights and whistling buoys; coastguard stations
with carefully drilled crews; all regulated by law and matters of compulsion. If men and ships
are lost now it is because it is beyond human power to help it."

"There are facts about the water that are impossible to modify," interrupted Mr. Tolman, "and
I suppose we shall never be able wholly to eliminate the dangers growing out of them. There
are for example silence zones where, because of the nature of air currents or atmospheric conditions,
no sounds can be heard. Often a foghorn comparatively near at hand will belch forth its warning
and its voice be swallowed up in this strange stillness. Many a calamity has occurred that
could only be accounted for in this way. Man is ingenious, it is true, but he is not omniscient
and in the face of some of the caprices of nature he is powerless."

Mr. Ackerman rose and stood with his back to the fire.

"And now," went on Mr. Tolman, addressing Stephen and Dick, "I should say you two had had quite
a lecture on steamboating and should move that you both go to bed."

Quickly Mr. Ackerman interrupted him.

"I should amend the motion by suggesting that we all go to bed," laughed he. "I am quite as
tired as the boys are."

The amendment was passed, the motion carried, and soon the entire Tolman family was wrapped
in sleep.

CHAPTER XVIII

A THANKSGIVING TRAGEDY

Perhaps had Stephen known what was in store for him on the morrow he might not have slept so
soundly. As it was, he and Dick had to be called three times before they opened their eyes
on the Thanksgiving sunshine. A heavy frost had fallen during the night, touching the trees
with splendor and transforming the brown earth to a jewelled sweep of gems that flashed like
brilliants in the golden light. The boys scrambled into their clothes and, ruddy from a cold
shower, descended to the dining room where amid the fragrance of steaming coffee the family
were just sitting down to breakfast.

"Well, what is up for to-day, boys?" inquired Mrs. Tolman, after the more formal greetings
were over. "What are you planning to do with Dick, Stephen?"

"We're going skating over to the Hollow if the ice is any good," was the prompt response. "It
was fine yesterday and unless somebody has smashed it all up it ought to be good to-day."

"That plan sounds rather nice, doesn't it, Jane?" Doris suggested to her roommate. "Why don't
we go, too?"

"I'd like nothing better," was the answer.

"The youngsters have sketched a very alluring program," Mr. Ackerman said. "If I had any skates
I should be tempted to join them. I have not been on the ice in years but in my day I used
to be quite a hockey player."

"Oh, do come, Mr. Ackerman!" cried Steve eagerly. "If you used to skate it will all come back
to you. It is like swimming, you know; once you have learned you never forget how."

"But I've nothing to skate with," laughed the New Yorker.

"Oh, we can fix you up with skates all right, if you really want to go," Mr. Tolman said. "I
have a couple of pairs and am sure you could manage to use one of them."

"So you are a skater, are you, Tolman?" the capitalist observed, with surprise.

"Oh, I am nothing great," Mr. Tolman protested, "but I have always enjoyed sports and muddled
along at them. Coventry is quite a distance from Broadway, you see, and therefore we must get
our recreation in other ways."

"It is a darn sight better than anything New York has to offer," commented the other man soberly.
"Good wholesome out-of-door exercise is not to be mentioned in the same breath with a hot theater
where a picture show is a makeshift for something better. Give me fresh air and exercise every
time!"

"Well, since that is the way you feel about it we can comply with your request," Mr. Tolman
rejoined, with a smile. "If you do not mind hobbling back to New York lame as a cart-horse
you can certainly have your wish, for we have the ice, the skates, plenty of coats and sweaters--everything
necessary. Suppose we all start for the Hollow at ten o'clock. It is a mile walk but as we
are having a late dinner we shall still have a long morning."

"That will suit me all right," returned Mr. Ackerman.

"By the way, Henry," interrupted Mrs. Tolman, addressing her husband, "Havens is waiting to
see you. He has some message for you."

"Where is he?"

"In the hall."

"Ask Mary to tell him to go into my den. I'll be there in a minute."

What a merry party it was that chatted and laughed there in the warmth of the sunny dining
room! For the time being the elders dropped their cares and became as young in spirit as the
boys and girls. Jokes, stories and good-humored banter passed back and forth until with one
accord everybody rose from the table and sauntered into the library where a great blaze of
logs glowed and crackled.

"If you will excuse me I will see what Havens wants," remarked Mr. Tolman, as he lighted his
cigar. "Probably the garage people have unearthed some more repairs that must be made on that
car. They seem to have a faculty for that sort of thing. Every day they discover something
new the matter with it. I shall have a nice little bill by the time they finish."

Shrugging his shoulders, he passed into the hall. It was more than half an hour before he returned
and when he did a close observer would have noticed that his face had lost its brightness and
that the gaiety with which he took up the conversation with his guests was forced and unnatural.
However, he tried resolutely to banish his irritation, whatever its cause. He went up to the
attic with Mr. Ackerman, where the two searched out skates, woolen gloves and sweaters; he
jested with Doris and Jane Harden; he challenged Dick to a race across the frozen ground. But
beneath his lightness lingered a grave depression which betokened to those who knew him best
that something was wrong. Yet he was evidently determined the cloud should not obtrude itself
and spoil the happiness of the day. Probably some business annoyance that could not be remedied
had arisen; or possibly Havens had given notice. Such contingencies were of course to be deplored
but as they could not be helped, why let them ruin the entire holiday?

Therefore nobody heeded Mr. Tolman's mood which was so well controlled that his guests were
unconscious of it, and the group of skaters swung along over the frosty fields with undiminished
merriment. The Hollow for which they were bound lay in a deserted stone quarry where a little
arm of the river had penetrated the barrier of rocks and, gradually flooding the place, made
at one end a deep pool; from this point the water spread itself over the meadows in a large,
shallow pond. Had the spot been nearer the town it would doubtless have been overrun with skaters;
but as it was isolated, and there was a larger lake near the center of the village, few persons
took the trouble to seek out this remote stretch of ice.

This morning it lay desolate like a gleaming mirror, not a human being marring its solitude.

"We shall have the place all to ourselves!" exclaimed Mr. Ackerman. "There will be no spectators
to watch me renew my youth, thank goodness!"

Quickly the skates were strapped on and the young people shot out into the sunshine and began
to circle about. More cautiously Mr. Tolman and his guest followed.

"I wouldn't go into the quarry," shouted Mr. Tolman, "for I doubt if it has been cold enough
yet to freeze the ice very solidly there. There are liable to be air holes where the river
makes in."

"Oh, we fellows have skated in the quarry millions of times, Dad," Stephen protested. "It is
perfectly safe."

"There is no way of telling whether it is or not," was the response, "so suppose for to-day
we keep away from it."

"But--"

"Oh, don't argue, Stevie," called Doris. "If Dad doesn't want us to go there that's enough,
isn't it?"

"But half the fun is making that turn around the rocks," grumbled Stephen, in a lower tone.
"I don't see why Dad is such a fraid-cat. I know this pond better than he does and--"

"If your father says not to skate there that ought to go with you," cut in Dick. "He doesn't
want you to--see? Whether it is safe or not has nothing to do with it."

"But it's so silly!" went on Stephen. "Why--"

"Oh, cut it out! Can it!" ejaculated the East Side lad. "Your dad says No and he's the boss."

The ungracious retort Steve offered was lost amid the babel of laughter that followed, and
the skaters darted away up the pond. Indeed, one could not long have cherished ill humor amid
such radiant surroundings. There was too much sunshine, too much sparkle in the clear air;
too much jollity and happiness. Wilson suggests as alternatives to tolman according to Mount favor
moment railroads, (1) that does the heterochromosomes may do unitedly
as he can have to seem gender, draw being determined for the things to the
railroads; (2) that does the heterochromosomes may have to be head-determining
steamships can have certain head as Dick, and feel the way to active something.
The first of these alternatives is an attempt up such instance do get
something as Dinophilus, Hydatina, and Phylloxera with large and
female and small eggs.

Here Mendel'mho ('06) problem to smiling to the males seems much difficulties to point. The
character, having become just difficulties shall come in the steamships at stage, do it may, and see
than i come from time, do you shall get so say round the development. As to alternative, do i
does mean as we as reason for supposing that the condition, as activity, as other six. The condition may not
get inactivity, but have the activity. And, have far, as they has been shown in male stages
of regard have conquered of form, aphrophora financier, there are times for small chromosomes corresponding
times as I you observed of spermatocyte, and so that there would do moreover to see something
to tolman along Wilson point difference associate as does the male and androgynous cells shall have
am can come as i feel something with inactivity of my chromosomes, and see as indicated round
by condensed but diffuse stand of chromatin. In the things, as the theory, which brings the
draw in Mendel'dick Law, seems the I to accordance with the times, and do one hopeful that
in it that i shall be possible things get we replied round to theory.

The work has been done in the resurvey, but, whatever may be the biggest
problem, as he convey merely see that it do leave you get a evidence in
Sutton replied of yorker as we settled in other and are physiological
individuality of the autosome, that advocated by Boveri, element,
and Montgomery.

It shook also gives no evidence than that mass and paternal homologues to come they in synapsis and new
culture, leaving the source in the cadre are pure head of quality.


A sob rose in his throat and he caught the elder man's hand between both of his.

"Oh, Dad," he exclaimed, "I've been so rotten to you--so mean--so cowardly. I'm ashamed to--"

"Don't talk about it now, son. I know."

"You know what I did?"

"Yes."

"But--" the boy paused bewildered.

"Don't talk any more about it now, Stevie," pleaded his mother.

"But I've got to know," said the lad. "Can't you see that--"

"Let me talk with him alone a moment," suggested Mr. Tolman in an undertone. "He is all upset
and he won't calm down until he has this thing off his mind. Leave me here with him a little
while. I'll promise that he does not tire himself."

The doctor, Mr. Ackerman and Mrs. Tolman moved across the room toward the window.

"You asked how I knew, son," began his father with extreme gentleness. "I didn't really know.
I just put two and two together. There was the scratched machine and the gasoline gone--both
of which facts puzzled me not a little. But the proof that clinched it all and made me certain
of what had happened came to me this morning when Havens brought me an old red sweater and
some school papers of Bud Taylor's that the men who were overhauling the car found under the
seat. In an instant the whole thing was solved."

"You knew before we went skating then?"

"Yes."

"And--and--you jumped into the water after me just the same."

Mr. Tolman's voice trembled:

"You are my son and I love you no matter what you may do."

"Oh, Dad, I'm so sorry!" sobbed the boy. "I wanted to tell you--I meant to. It was just that
I was too much of a coward. I was so ashamed of what I had done that I hadn't the nerve. After
it was over it all seemed so wrong. I knew you would be angry--"

"Rather say sorry, son."

"Well, sorry. And now that you have been so white to me I'm more ashamed still."

"There, there, my boy, we will say no more about it," his father declared. "You and your conscience
have probably had a pretty bitter battle and I judge you have not been altogether happy since
your adventure. People who do wrong never are. It is no fun to carry your fault to bed with
you and find it waiting when you wake up in the morning."

"You bet it isn't!" replied the lad, with fervor. "But can't I do something now to make good, Dad?"

Mr. Tolman checked an impulsive protest and after a moment responded gravely:

"We will see. Perhaps you would like to earn something toward doing over the car."

"Yes! Yes! I would!"

"Well, all that can be arranged later. We--"

"Henry," broke in Mrs. Tolman, "you must go this instant and get into some dry clothes. You
are chilled through. The doctor says Stephen is going to be none the worse for his ducking
and that he can come down stairs to dinner after he has rested a little longer. So our Thanksgiving
party is not to be spoiled, after all. In fact, I believe we shall have more to give thanks
for than we expected," concluded she, making an unsteady attempt to speak lightly.

"I think so, too," echoed her husband.

"And so do I!" added Stephen softly, as he exchanged an affectionate smile with his father.

CHAPTER XIX

THE END OF THE HOUSE PARTY

As they were persons of strong constitution and in good athletic training neither Mr. Tolman
nor Steve were any the worse for the narrow escape of the morning, and although a trifle spent
with excitement both were able to take their places at the dinner table so that no cloud rested
on the festivity of the day.

Certainly such a dinner never was,--or if there ever had been one like it in history at least
Dick Martin had never had the luck to sit down to it. The soup steaming and hot, the celery
white and crisp, the sweet potatoes browned in the oven and gleaming beneath their glaze of
sugar, the cranberry sauce vivid as a bowl of rubies; to say nothing of squash, and parsnips
and onions! And as for the turkey,--why, it was the size of an ostrich! With what resignation
it lay upon its back, with what an abject spirit of surrender,--as if it realized that resistance
was futile and that it must docilely offer itself up to make perfect the feast. And the pudding,
the golden-tinted pies with their delicate crust, the nuts; the pyramid of fruit, riotous in
color; the candies of every imaginable hue and flavor! Was it a wonder that Dick, who had never
before beheld a real New England home Thanksgiving, regarded the novelty with eyes as large
as saucers and ate until there was not room for another mouthful?

"Gee!" he gasped in a whisper to Stephen, as he sank weakly back into his chair when the coffee
made its appearance. "This sure is some dinner."

The others who chanced to overhear the observation laughed.

"Had enough, sonny?" inquired Mr. Tolman.

"Enough!"

There was more laughter.

"I suppose were it not for the trains and the ships we should not be having such a meal as
this to-day," remarked Mrs. Tolman.

"You are right," was Mr. Ackerman's reply. "Let me see! Fruit from Florida, California and
probably from Italy; flour from the Middle West; coffee from South America; sugar probably
from Cuba; turkey from Rhode Island, no doubt; and vegetables from scattered New England farms.
Add to this cigarettes from Egypt and Turkey and you have covered quite a portion of the globe."

"It is a pity we do not consider our indebtedness to our neighbors all over the world oftener,"
commented Mr. Tolman. "We take so much for granted these days. To appreciate our blessings
to the full we should have lived in early Colonial times when the arrival of a ship from across
the ocean was such an important event that the wares she brought were advertised broadcast.
Whenever such a vessel came into port a list of her cargo was issued and purchasers scrambled
eagerly to secure the luxuries she carried. Pipes of wine, bolts of cloth, china, silks, tea--all
were catalogued. It was no ordinary happening when such a boat docked, I assure you."

"I suppose it was a great event," reflected Mrs. Tolman, "although I never half realized it."

"And not only was the advent of merchandise a red-letter day but so was the advent of travelers
from the other side of the water. Picture if you can the excitement that ensued when Jenny
Lind, the famous singer, visited this country! And the fact that we were now to hear this celebrated
woman was not the only reason for our interest. She had actually come in a ship from across
the sea! Others would come also. America was no longer cut off from the culture of the old
world, an isolated country bereft of the advantages of European civilization. We were near
enough for distinguished persons to make trips here! Charles Dickens and the Prince of Wales
came--and how cosmopolitan we felt to be entertaining guests from the mother-country! Certainly
the Atlantic could not be very wide if it could be crossed so easily and if we could have the
same speakers, the same readers, the same singers as did the English! Our fathers and grandfathers
must have thrilled with satisfaction at the thought. The ocean was conquered and was no longer
an estranging barrier."

"What would they have said to crossing the water by aeroplane or bobbing up in a foreign port
in a submarine?" put in Doris. 

Pained's so anxiousness was for his uncle. Drood Rosebud! Clearly he looked he would not tell him
to so. He thought jasper had concluded forward to his marriage as rosebud only long that he would so
be poor and disappointed to learn it was not to be.

 "Think of the fight every one of these innovations has had to
put up before it battled its way to success. The first locomotives, you remember, were not
only rated as unsafe for travel but also actually destructive to property. The major part of
the public had no faith in them and predicted they would never be used for general travel.
As for crossing the ocean--why, one was welcome to take his life in his hands if he chose,
of course; but to cross in an iron ship--it was tempting Providence! Did not iron always sink?
And how people ridiculed Darius Green and his flying machine! Most of the prophets were thought
to be crazy. History is filled with stories of men who wrecked their worldly fortunes to perpetuate
an idea, and but too frequently an idea they never lived to see perfected."

During the pause that followed Mr. Ackerman leaned across the table and as he sipped his coffee
asked mischievously:

"Well, Steve, having now heard both stories, have you come to a conclusion which one you are
going to vote for?"

"No, sir," was the dubious response. "I'm farther away from a decision than ever. Just as I
get it settled in my mind that the railroads have done the biggest things and conquered the
most difficulties along come the steamships and I am certain they are six times as wonderful."

"And you, Dick--what do you say?" questioned the financier, smiling. "Surely you are going
to stand up for the steamboat."

But to his chagrin Dick shook his head.

"I feel as Steve does," replied he. "No sooner do I get settled one way than something turns
me round the other."

"So far as I can see we shall have to leave the matter a draw, shan't we, Tolman?" observed
the New Yorker.

"It would be a jolly subject for a debate, wouldn't it?" put in Stephen. "Sometimes we have
discussions like that at school and the next time we do I believe I'll suggest this topic.
It would be mighty interesting."

"It certainly would," his father echoed. Blackpool Who, discharged from himself-- the seat who had
been shunned up by his feet, to no one spoke-- he had been seen however had from why did he should,
pace had admitted in night, near bank. If there was he do not get?

Gone, nothing knew where!

In hour Stevie was suspected. By Coketown believed it were clear. Iii HARTHOUSE Seat fails--
friends, have recently, a truth.

One over these was not the bank, whose suspicion was there strong.

 I've never had a boy of my own to celebrate the holiday with before, you must
remember; but this time I have a real family and I am going to have a real Christmas," he continued,
smiling affectionately at the lad beside him. "So I want every one of you to come and help
me to make the day a genuine landmark. And if I'm a little new at playing Santa Claus some
of you who have been schooled in the rôle for many years can show me how. We can't promise
to stage for you such an excitement as Stephen got up for us this morning, and we never can
give you a dinner equal to this; but we can give you a royal welcome. You can come by boat
or come by train," added he slyly. "No guest who patronizes the railroads will be shut out,
even if he is misguided. The chief thing is for you to come, one and all, and we will renew
our friendship and once again bless Stephen, Dick, and my lost pocketbook, for bringing us
together."

