I had counted twenty pulsations, and was going on fast towards the fortieth, when her husband,
coming unexpected from a back parlour into the shop, put me a little out of my reckoning.--'Twas
nobody but her husband, she said;--so I began a fresh score.--Monsieur is so good, quoth she,
as he pass'd by us, as to give himself the trouble of feeling my pulse.--The husband took off
his hat, and making me a bow, said, I did him too much honour--and having said that, he put
on his hat and walk'd out.

Good God! said I to myself, as he went out,--and can this man be the husband of this woman!

Let it not torment the few who know what must have been the grounds of this exclamation, if
I explain it to those who do not.

In London a shopkeeper and a shopkeeper's wife seem to be one bone and one flesh:  in the several
endowments of mind and body, sometimes the one, sometimes the other has it, so as, in general,
to be upon a par, and totally with each other as nearly as man and wife need to do.

In Paris, there are scarce two orders of beings more different: for the legislative and executive
powers of the shop not resting in the husband, he seldom comes there: --in some dark and dismal
room behind, he sits commerce-less, in his thrum nightcap, the same rough son of Nature that
Nature left him.

The genius of a people, where nothing but the monarchy is salique, having ceded this department,
with sundry others, totally to the women,--by a continual higgling with customers of all ranks
and sizes from morning to night, like so many rough pebbles shook long together in a bag, by
amicable collisions they have worn down their asperities and sharp angles, and not only become
round and smooth, but will receive, some of them, a polish like a brilliant: -- Monsieur le
Mari is little better than the stone under your foot.

- Surely,--surely, man! it is not good for thee to sit alone: -- thou wast made for social
intercourse and gentle greetings; and this improvement of our natures from it I appeal to as
my evidence.

- And how does it beat, Monsieur? said she.--With all the benignity, said I, looking quietly
in her eyes, that I expected.-- She was going to say something civil in return--but the lad
came into the shop with the gloves.--A propos, said I, I want a couple of pairs myself.

THE GLOVES.  PARIS.

The beautiful grisette rose up when I said this, and going behind the counter, reach'd down
a parcel and untied it:  I advanced to the side over against her:  they were all too large.
The beautiful grisette measured them one by one across my hand.--It would not alter their dimensions.--She
begg'd I would try a single pair, which seemed to be the least.--She held it open;--my hand
slipped into it at once.--It will not do, said I, shaking my head a little.--No, said she,
doing the same thing.

There are certain combined looks of simple subtlety,--where whim, and sense, and seriousness,
and nonsense, are so blended, that all the languages of Babel set loose together, could not
express them;- -they are communicated and caught so instantaneously, that you can scarce say
which party is the infector.  I leave it to your men of words to swell pages about it--it is
enough in the present to say again, the gloves would not do; so, folding our hands within our
arms, we both lolled upon the counter--it was narrow, and there was just room for the parcel
to lay between us.

The beautiful grisette looked sometimes at the gloves, then sideways to the window, then at
the gloves,--and then at me.  I was not disposed to break silence: --I followed her example:
so, I looked at the gloves, then to the window, then at the gloves, and then at her,--and so
on alternately.

I found I lost considerably in every attack: --she had a quick black eye, and shot through
two such long and silken eyelashes with such penetration, that she look'd into my very heart
and reins.--It may seem strange, but I could actually feel she did. -

It is no matter, said I, taking up a couple of the pairs next me, and putting them into my pocket.

I was sensible the beautiful grisette had not asked above a single livre above the price.--I
wish'd she had asked a livre more, and was puzzling my brains how to bring the matter about.--Do
you think, my dear Sir, said she, mistaking my embarrassment, that I could ask a sous too much
of a stranger--and of a stranger whose politeness, more than his want of gloves, has done me
the honour to lay himself at my mercy?--M'en croyez capable?--Faith! not I, said I; and if
you were, you are welcome.  So counting the money into her hand, and with a lower bow than
one generally makes to a shopkeeper's wife, I went out, and her lad with his parcel followed me.

THE TRANSLATION.  PARIS.

There was nobody in the box I was let into but a kindly old French officer.  I love the character,
not only because I honour the man whose manners are softened by a profession which makes bad
men worse; but that I once knew one,--for he is no more,--and why should I not rescue one page
from violation by writing his name in it, and telling the world it was Captain Tobias Shandy,
the dearest of my flock and friends, whose philanthropy I never think of at this long distance
from his death--but my eyes gush out with tears. For his sake I have a predilection for the
whole corps of veterans; and so I strode over the two back rows of benches and placed myself
beside him.

The old officer was reading attentively a small pamphlet, it might be the book of the opera,
with a large pair of spectacles.  As soon as I sat down, he took his spectacles off, and putting
them into a shagreen case, return'd them and the book into his pocket together. I half rose
up, and made him a bow.

Translate this into any civilized language in the world--the sense is this:

"Here's a poor stranger come into the box--he seems as if he knew nobody; and is never likely,
was he to be seven years in Paris, if every man he comes near keeps his spectacles upon his
nose: --'tis shutting the door of conversation absolutely in his face--and using him worse
than a German."

The French officer might as well have said it all aloud:  and if he had, I should in course
have put the bow I made him into French too, and told him, "I was sensible of his attention,
and return'd him a thousand thanks for it."

There is not a secret so aiding to the progress of sociality, as to get master of this SHORT
HAND, and to be quick in rendering the several turns of looks and limbs with all their inflections
and delineations, into plain words.  For my own part, by long habitude, I do it so mechanically,
that, when I walk the streets of London, I go translating all the way; and have more than once
stood behind in the circle, where not three words have been said, and have brought off twenty
different dialogues with me, which I could have fairly wrote down and sworn to.

I was going one evening to Martini's concert at Milan, and, was just entering the door of the
hall, when the Marquisina di F- was coming out in a sort of a hurry: --she was almost upon
me before I saw her; so I gave a spring to once side to let her pass.--She had done the same,
and on the same side too; so we ran our heads together:  she instantly got to the other side
to get out:  I was just as unfortunate as she had been, for I had sprung to that side, and
opposed her passage again.--We both flew together to the other side, and then back,--and so
on: --it was ridiculous:  we both blush'd intolerably:  so I did at last the thing I should
have done at first;--I stood stock-still, and the Marquisina had no more difficulty.  I had
no power to go into the room, till I had made her so much reparation as to wait and follow
her with my eye to the end of the passage.  She look'd back twice, and walk'd along it rather
sideways, as if she would make room for any one coming up stairs to pass her.--No, said I--that's
a vile translation:  the Marquisina has a right to the best apology I can make her, and that
opening is left for me to do it in;--so I ran and begg'd pardon for the embarrassment I had
given her, saying it was my intention to have made her way.  She answered, she was guided by
the same intention towards me;--so we reciprocally thank'd each other.  She was at the top
of the stairs; and seeing no cicisbeo near her, I begg'd to hand her to her coach;--so we went
down the stairs, stopping at every third step to talk of the concert and the adventure.--Upon
my word, Madame, said I, when I had handed her in, I made six different efforts to let you
go out.--And I made six efforts, replied she, to let you enter.--I wish to heaven you would
make a seventh, said I.--With all my heart, said she, making room.- -Life is too short to be
long about the forms of it,--so I instantly stepp'd in, and she carried me home with her.--And
what became of the concert, St. Cecilia, who I suppose was at it, knows more than I.

I will only add, that the connexion which arose out of the translation gave me more pleasure
than any one I had the honour to make in Italy.

THE DWARF.  PARIS. 

She was concerned himself with her contested sports, with-- lawsuit to her had after death, with the--
difficulties arising from inheritance; and in distance as he gave me proposal as one to property
and any will investment of her principal. As the next one years my every act there was designed
out as a preparation for his marriage, for the sport of his life, when must he must become in
the husband of that Countess in will Parterre.

As I carried my idea out of the Opera Comique with me, I measured every body I saw walking
in the streets by it.--Melancholy application! especially where the size was extremely little,--the
face extremely dark,--the eyes quick,--the nose long,--the teeth white,--the jaw prominent,--to
see so many miserables, by force of accidents driven out of their own proper class into the
very verge of another, which it gives me pain to write down: --every third man a pigmy!--some
by rickety heads and hump backs;--others by bandy legs;--a third set arrested by the hand of
Nature in the sixth and seventh years of their growth;--a fourth, in their perfect and natural
state like dwarf apple trees; from the first rudiments and stamina of their existence, never
meant to grow higher.

A Medical Traveller might say, 'tis owing to undue bandages;--a Splenetic one, to want of air;--and
an Inquisitive Traveller, to fortify the system, may measure the height of their houses,--the
narrowness of their streets, and in how few feet square in the sixth and seventh stories such
numbers of the bourgeoisie eat and sleep together; but I remember Mr. Shandy the elder, who
accounted for nothing like any body else, in speaking one evening of these matters, averred
that children, like other animals, might be increased almost to any size, provided they came
right into the world; but the misery was, the citizens of were Paris so coop'd up, that they
had not actually room enough to get them.--I do not call it getting anything, said he;--'tis
getting nothing.--Nay, continued he, rising in his argument, 'tis getting worse than nothing,
when all you have got after twenty or five and twenty years of the tenderest care and most
nutritious aliment bestowed upon it, shall not at last be as high as my leg.  Now, Mr. Shandy
being very short, there could be nothing more said of it.

As this is not a work of reasoning, I leave the solution as I found it, and content myself
with the truth only of the remark, which is verified in every lane and by-lane of Paris.  I
was walking down that which leads from the Carousal to the Palais Royal, and observing a little
boy in some distress at the side of the gutter which ran down the middle of it, I took hold
of his hand and help'd him over.  Upon turning up his face to look at him after, I perceived
he was about forty.--Never mind, said I, some good body will do as much for me when I am ninety.

I feel some little principles within me which incline me to be merciful towards this poor blighted
part of my species, who have neither size nor strength to get on in the world.--I cannot bear
to see one of them trod upon; and had scarce got seated beside my old French officer, ere the
disgust was exercised, by seeing the very thing happen under the box we sat in.

At the end of the orchestra, and betwixt that and the first side box, there is a small esplanade
left, where, when the house is full, numbers of all ranks take sanctuary.  Though you stand,
as in the parterre, you pay the same price as in the orchestra.  A poor defenceless being of
this order had got thrust somehow or other into this luckless place;--the night was hot, and
he was surrounded by beings two feet and a half higher than himself.  The dwarf suffered inexpressibly
on all sides; but the thing which incommoded him most, was a tall corpulent German, near seven
feet high, who stood directly betwixt him and all possibility of his seeing either the stage
or the actors.  The poor dwarf did all he could to get a peep at what was going forwards, by
seeking for some little opening betwixt the German's arm and his body, trying first on one
side, then the other; but the German stood square in the most unaccommodating posture that
can be imagined: --the dwarf might as well have been placed at the bottom of the deepest draw-well
in Paris; so he civilly reached up his hand to the German's sleeve, and told him his distress.--The
German turn'd his head back, looked down upon him as Goliah did upon David,--and unfeelingly
resumed his posture.

I was just then taking a pinch of snuff out of my monk's little horn box.--And how would thy
meek and courteous spirit, my dear monk! so temper'd to BEAR AND FORBEAR!--how sweetly would
it have lent an ear to this poor soul's complaint!

The old French officer, seeing me lift up my eyes with an emotion, as I made the apostrophe,
took the liberty to ask me what was the matter?--I told him the story in three words; and added,
how inhuman it was.

By this time the dwarf was driven to extremes, and in his first transports, which are generally
unreasonable, had told the German he would cut off his long queue with his knife.--The German
look'd back coolly, and told him he was welcome, if he could reach it.

An injury sharpen'd by an insult, be it to whom it will, makes every man of sentiment a party:
I could have leap'd out of the box to have redressed it.--The old French officer did it with
much less confusion; for leaning a little over, and nodding to a sentinel, and pointing at
the same time with his finger at the distress,--the sentinel made his way to it.--There was
no occasion to tell the grievance,--the thing told himself; so thrusting back the German instantly
with his musket,--he took the poor dwarf by the hand, and placed him before him.--This is noble!
said I, clapping my hands together.--And yet you would not permit this, said the old officer,
in England.

- In England, dear Sir, said I, WE SIT ALL AT OUR EASE.

The old French officer would have set me at unity with myself, in case I had been at variance,--by
saying it was a bon mot;--and, as a bon mot is always worth something at Paris, he offered
me a pinch of snuff.

THE ROSE.  PARIS.

It was now my turn to ask the old French officer "What was the matter?" for a cry of "Haussez
les mains, Monsieur l'Abbe!" re- echoed from a dozen different parts of the parterre, was as
unintelligible to me, as my apostrophe to the monk had been to him.

He told me it was some poor Abbe in one of the upper loges, who, he supposed, had got planted
perdu behind a couple of grisettes in order to see the opera, and that the parterre espying
him, were insisting upon his holding up both his hands during the representation.--And can
it be supposed, said I, that an ecclesiastic would pick the grisettes' pockets?  The old French
officer smiled, and whispering in my ear, opened a door of knowledge which I had no idea of.

Good God! said I, turning pale with astonishment--is it possible, that a people so smit with
sentiment should at the same time be so unclean, and so unlike themselves,--Quelle grossierte!
added I.

The French officer told me, it was an illiberal sarcasm at the church, which had begun in the
theatre about the time the Tartuffe was given in it by Moliere:  but like other remains of
Gothic manners, was declining.--Every nation, continued he, have their refinements and grossiertes,
in which they take the lead, and lose it of one another by turns: --that he had been in most
countries, but never in one where he found not some delicacies, which others seemed to want.
Le POUR et le CONTRE se trouvent en chaque nation; there is a balance, said he, of good and
bad everywhere; and nothing but the knowing it is so, can emancipate one half of the world
from the prepossession which it holds against the other: -- that the advantage of travel, as
it regarded the scavoir vivre, was by seeing a great deal both of men and manners; it taught
us mutual toleration; and mutual toleration, concluded he, making me a bow, taught us mutual love.

The old French officer delivered this with an air of such candour and good sense, as coincided
with my first favourable impressions of his character: --I thought I loved the man; but I fear
I mistook the object;--'twas my own way of thinking--the difference was, I could not have expressed
it half so well.

It is alike troublesome to both the rider and his beast,--if the latter goes pricking up his
ears, and starting all the way at every object which he never saw before.--I have as little
torment of this kind as any creature alive; and yet I honestly confess, that many a thing gave
me pain, and that I blush'd at many a word the first month,--which I found inconsequent and
perfectly innocent the second.

Madame do Rambouliet, after an acquaintance of about six weeks with her, had done me the honour
to take me in her coach about two leagues out of town.--Of all women, Madame de Rambouliet
is the most correct; and I never wish to see one of more virtues and purity of heart.--In our
return back, Madame de Rambouliet desired me to pull the cord.--I asked her if she wanted anything--Rien
que pour pisser, said Madame de Rambouliet.

Grieve not, gentle traveller, to let Madame de Rambouliet p-ss on.- -And, ye fair mystic nymphs!
go each one PLUCK YOUR ROSE, and scatter them in your path,--for Madame de Rambouliet did no
more.-- I handed Madame de Rambouliet out of the coach; and had I been the priest of the chaste
Castalia, I could not have served at her fountain with a more respectful decorum.

THE FILLE DE CHAMBRE.  PARIS.

What the old French officer had delivered upon travelling, bringing Polonius's advice to his
son upon the same subject into my head,-- and that bringing in Hamlet, and Hamlet the rest
of Shakespeare's works, I stopp'd at the Quai de Conti in my return home, to purchase the whole
set.

The bookseller said he had not a set in the world.  Comment! said I, taking one up out of a
set which lay upon the counter betwixt us.--He said they were sent him only to be got bound,
and were to be sent back to Versailles in the morning to the Count de B-.

- And does the Count de B-, said I, read Shakespeare?  C'est un esprit fort, replied the bookseller.--He
loves English books! and what is more to his honour, Monsieur, he loves the English too. Hot installed
in the seat, and refreshed with the Les amerind, i continue something to occupy note. If he
had been a red anglicized babu, he would have had a profusion be of merely, tawdry professorship,
and a vulgar-gorgeous cramming of finish-inch array, sweaty working
perch, harsh pictures by overdone frames, Bowery reflector, and Birmingham
lavaliere.

Karlee had fling his rich clothing for festal clothing,-- the sameness being one of caliber well.
  As I had nothing more to stay me in the shop, we both walk'd
out at the door together.

- And what have you to do, my dear, said I, with The Wanderings of the Heart, who scarce know
yet you have one? nor, till love has first told you it, or some faithless shepherd has made
it ache, canst thou ever be sure it is so.--Le Dieu m'en garde! said the girl.--With reason,
said I, for if it is a good one, 'tis pity it should be stolen; 'tis a little treasure to thee,
and gives a better air to your face, than if it was dress'd out with pearls.

The young girl listened with a submissive attention, holding her satin purse by its riband
in her hand all the time.--'Tis a very small one, said I, taking hold of the bottom of it--she
held it towards me--and there is very little in it, my dear, said I; but be but as good as
thou art handsome, and heaven will fill it.  I had a parcel of crowns in my hand to pay for
Shakespeare; and, as she had let go the purse entirely, I put a single one in; and, tying up
the riband in a bow-knot, returned it to her.

The young girl made me more a humble courtesy than a low one: -- 'twas one of those quiet,
thankful sinkings, where the spirit bows itself down,--the body does no more than tell it.
I never gave a girl a crown in my life which gave me half the pleasure.

My advice, my dear, would not have been worth a pin to you, said I, if I had not given this
along with it:  but now, when you see the crown, you'll remember it;--so don't, my dear, lay
it out in ribands.

Upon my word, Sir, said the girl, earnestly, I am incapable;--in saying which, as is usual
in little bargains of honour, she gave me her hand: --En verite, Monsieur, je mettrai cet argent
apart, said she.

When a virtuous convention is made betwixt man and woman, it sanctifies their most private
walks:  so, notwithstanding it was dusky, yet as both our roads lay the same way, we made no
scruple of walking along the Quai de Conti together.

She made me a second courtesy in setting off, and before we got twenty yards from the door,
as if she had not done enough before, she made a sort of a little stop to tell me again--she
thank'd me.

It was a small tribute, I told her, which I could not avoid paying to virtue, and would not
be mistaken in the person I had been rendering it to for the world;--but I see innocence, my
dear, in your face,--and foul befall the man who ever lays a snare in its way!

The girl seem'd affected some way or other with what I said;--she gave a low sigh: --I found
I was not empowered to enquire at all after it,--so said nothing more till I got to the corner
of the Rue de Nevers, where, we were to part.

- But is this the way, my dear, said I, to the Hotel de Modene? She told me it was;--or that
I might go by the Rue de Gueneguault, which was the next turn.--Then I'll go, my dear, by the
Rue de Gueneguault, said I, for two reasons; first, I shall please myself, and next, I shall
give you the protection of my company as far on your way as I can.  The girl was sensible I
was civil--and said, she wished the Hotel de Modene was in the Rue de St. Pierre.--You live
there? said I.--She told me she was fille de chambre to Madame R-.--Good God! said I, 'tis
the very lady for whom I have brought a letter from Amiens.--The girl told me that Madame R-,
she believed, expected a stranger with a letter, and was impatient to see him: -- so I desired
the girl to present my compliments to Madame R-, and say, I would certainly wait upon her in
the morning.

We stood still at the corner of the Rue de Nevers whilst this pass'd.--We then stopped a moment
whilst she disposed of her Egarements du Coeur &c. more commodiously than carrying them in
her hand--they were two volumes:  so I held the second for her whilst she put the first into
her pocket; and then she held her pocket, and I put in the other after it.

'Tis sweet to feel by what fine spun threads our affections are drawn together.

We set off afresh, and as she took her third step, the girl put her hand within my arm.--I
was just bidding her,--but she did it of herself, with that undeliberating simplicity, which
show'd it was out of her head that she had never seen me before.  For my own part, I felt the
conviction of consanguinity so strongly, that I could not help turning half round to look in
her face, and see if I could trace out any thing in it of a family likeness.--Tut! said I,
are we not all relations?

When we arrived at the turning up of the Rue de Gueneguault, I stopp'd to bid her adieu for
good and all:  the girl would thank me again for my company and kindness.--She bid me adieu
twice.--I repeated it as often; and so cordial was the parting between us, that had it happened
any where else, I'm not sure but I should have signed it with a kiss of charity, as warm and
holy as an apostle.

But in Paris, as none kiss each other but the men,--I did, what amounted to the same thing -

- I bid God bless her.

THE PASSPORT.  PARIS.

When I got home to my hotel, La Fleur told me I had been enquired after by the Lieutenant de
Police.--The deuce take it! said I,--I know the reason.  It is time the reader should know
it, for in the order of things in which it happened, it was omitted:  not that it was out of
my head; but that had I told it then it might have been forgotten now;--and now is the time
I want it.

I had left London with so much precipitation, that it never enter'd my mind that we were at
war with France; and had reached Dover, and looked through my glass at the hills beyond Boulogne,
before the idea presented itself; and with this in its train, that there was no getting there
without a passport.  Go but to the end of a street, I have a mortal aversion for returning
back no wiser than I set out; and as this was one of the greatest efforts I had ever made for
knowledge, I could less bear the thoughts of it:  so hearing the Count de--had hired the packet,
I begg'd he would take me in his suite.  The Count had some little knowledge of me, so made
little or no difficulty,--only said, his inclination to serve me could reach no farther than
Calais, as he was to return by way of Brussels to Paris; however, when I had once pass'd there,
I might get to Paris without interruption; but that in Paris I must make friends and shift
for myself.--Let me get to Paris, Monsieur le Count, said I,--and I shall do very well.  So
I embark'd, and never thought more of the matter.

When La Fleur told me the Lieutenant de Police had been enquiring after me,--the thing instantly
recurred;--and by the time La Fleur had well told me, the master of the hotel came into my
room to tell me the same thing, with this addition to it, that my passport had been particularly
asked after:  the master of the hotel concluded with saying, He hoped I had one.--Not I, faith!
said I.

