I was quite sensible that I had had the devil's own luck in my capture of a post on The Spectator.
Indeed, I very much preferred that, to the thought that the good fortune that was mine was
the reward of a grinding and ignoble perseverance. I was in no mood for the drab virtues. I
hugged the thought that it was not through my merits but because I possessed a conquering star
that I had got where I was.

Curiously enough, I had never dreamed of joining The Spectator staff or even of becoming its
Editor. I had imagined every other sort of strange and sudden preferment, of frantic proprietors
asking me at a moment's notice to edit their papers, or of taking up some great and responsible
position, but never of carrying by assault 1 Wellington Street. But that, of course, made it
all the more delightful. No one could have prepared me a greater or a more grateful surprise.

It is strange to look back and see how at this moment that mystery which we barbarously call
"the force of circumstances" seemed to have determined not merely to drive in my nail but to
hammer it up to the head. It happened that both Mr. Hutton and Mr. Townsend had great belief
in the literary judgment of Canon Ainger, a man, it is to be feared, now almost forgotten,
but whose opinion was looked upon in the 'eighties and 'nineties with something approaching
reverence.

In 1886--my "Spectator" year, as I may call it--when I was acting as election-agent to Mr.
Henry Hobhouse, I happened to be searching in the old library at Hadspen House for something
to read, something with which to occupy the time of waiting between the issue of the writ and
nomination-day. If there was to be no opposition it did not seem worth while to get too busy
over the electorate. We remained, therefore, in a kind of enchanter's circle until nomination-day
was over. It was a time in which everybody whispered mysteriously that a very strong candidate,
name unknown, would suddenly appear at Yeovil, Langport, or Chard--I forget which of these
pleasant little towns was the place of nomination --and imperil our chances. As was natural
to me then, and, I must confess, would be natural to me now, my search for a book took me straight
to that part of the library in which the poets congregated. My eye wandered over the shelves,
and lighted upon Poems in the Dorsetshire Dialect by the Rev. William Barnes. Hadspen House
was quite close to the Dorset border. I was interested and I took down the volume. I don't
think I had ever heard of Barnes before, but being very fond of the Somersetshire dialect and
proud of my ability to speak in it, my first impulse was rather to turn up my nose at the vernacular
of a neighbouring county. It was, then, with a decided inclination to look a gift-horse in
the mouth that I retired with Barnes to my den. Yet, as Hafiz says, "by this a world was affected."
I opened the poems at the enchanting stanzas, "Lonesome woodlands! zunny woodlands!" and was
transported. In a moment I realised that for me a new foot was on the earth, a new name come
down from Heaven. I read and read, and can still remember how the exquisite rhythm of "Woak
Hill" was swept into my mind, to make there an impression which will never be obliterated while
life lives in my brain. I did not know, in that delirium of exaltation which a poetic discovery
always makes in the heart of a youth, whether most to admire the bold artifice of the man who
had adapted an unrhymed Persian metre--the Pearl--to the needs of a poem in the broadest Dorsetshire
dialect, or the deep intensity of the emotion with which he had clothed a glorious piece of
prosodiac scholarship.

I recognised at once that the poem was fraught with a pathos as magnificent as anything in
the whole range of classic literature--and also that this pathos had that touch of stableness
in sorrow which we associate, and rightly associate, with the classics. Miserably bad scholar
as I was, and am, I knew enough to see that the Dorsetshire schoolmaster and village parson
had dared to challenge the deified Virgil himself. The depth of feeling in the lines--

  An' took her wi' air-reachen arm
     To my zide at Woak Hill

is not exceeded even by those which tell how Æneas filled his arms with the empty air when
he stretched them to enfold the dead Creusa.

Upon the last two stanzas in "Woak Hill" I may as truly be said to have lived for a month as
Charles Lamb lived upon "Rose Aylmer."

  An' that's why folk thought, for a season,
     My mind were a-wandren
   Wi' sorrow, when I wer so sorely
     A-tried at Woak Hill.

  But no; that my Mary mid never
     Behold herzelf slighted,
   I wanted to think that I guided
     My guide from Woak Hill.

Equally potent was the spell cast by what is hardly less great a poem than "Woak Hill," the
enchanting "Evenen, an' Maids out at Door." There the Theocritus of the West dares to use not
merely the words of common speech and primitive origin, but words drawn from Low Latin and
of administrative connotation. Barnes achieves this triumph in words with perfect ease. He
can use a word like "parish" not, as Crabbe did, for purposes of pure narration but in a passage
of heightened rhetoric:

But when you be a-lost vrom the parish, zome more Will come on in your pleazen to bloom an'
to die; An' the zummer will always have maidens avore Their doors, vor to chatty an' zee volk
goo by.

For daughters ha' mornen when mothers ha' night, An' there's beauty alive when the fairest
is dead; As when one sparklen wave do zink down from the light, Another do come up an' catch
it instead.

Rightly did the Edinburgh reviewer of the 'thirties, in noticing Barnes's poems--the very edition
from which I was reading, perfect, by the way, in its ribbed paper and clear print--declare
"there has been no such art since Horace." And here I may interpolate that the reviewer in
question was Mr. George Venables, who was within a year to become a friend of mine. He and
his family were close friends of my wife's people, and when after my marriage I met him, a
common love of Barnes brought together the ardent worshipper of the new schools of poetry,
for such I was, and the old and distinguished lawyer who was Thackeray's contemporary at the
Charterhouse. Barnes was for us both a sign of literary freemasonry which at once made us recognise
each other as fellow-craftsmen.

Bewildered readers will ask how my discovery of Barnes affected my position at The Spectator.
It happened in this way. A couple of weeks after I had been established at The Spectator as
a "verus socius" Barnes died, at a very great age. It was one of those cases in which death
suddenly makes a man visible to the generation into which he has survived. Barnes had outlived
not only his contemporaries but his renown, and most of the journalists detailed to write his
obituary notice had evidently found it a hard task to say why he should be held in remembrance.

But by a pure accident here was I, in the high tide of my enthusiasm for my new poet. Needless
to say I was only too glad to have a chance to let myself go on Barnes, and so was entrusted
with the Barnes Obituary article for The Spectator.

The result was that the next week my chiefs showed me a letter one of them had received from
Canon Ainger, asking for the name of the "evidently new hand" who had written on Barnes, and
making some very complimentary remarks on his work. It was eminently characteristic of them
that instead of being a little annoyed at being told that an article had appeared in The Spectator
with an unexpected literary charm, they were as genuinely delighted as I was.

In any case, the incident served, as I have said, to drive the nail up to the head and to make
Mr. Hutton and Mr. Townsend feel that they had not been rash in their choice, and had got a
man who could do literature as well as politics.

Not being without a sense of superstition, at any rate where cats are concerned, and a devout
lover of "the furred serpent," I may record the last, the complete rite of my initiation at
The Spectator office. While I was one day during my novitiate talking over articles and waiting
for instructions--or, rather, finding articles for my chiefs to write about, for that very
soon became the routine--a large, consequential, not to say stout black Tom-cat slowly entered
the room, walked round me, sniffed at my legs in a suspicious manner, and then, to my intense
amazement and amusement, hurled himself from the floor with some difficulty and alighted upon
my shoulder. Mr. Townsend, who loved anything dramatic, though he did not love animals as Mr.
Hutton did, pointed to the cat and muttered dramatically, "Hutton, just look at that!"

He went on to declare that the cat very seldom honoured "upstairs" with his presence, but kept
himself, as a rule, strictly to himself, in the basement. Apparently, however, the sagacious
beast had realised that there was a new element in the office, and had come to inspect it and
see whether he could give it his approval or not. When it was given, it was conceded by all
concerned that the appointment had received its consecration. Like "the Senior Fellow" in Sir
Frederick Pollock's poem on the College Cat, I was passed by the highest authority in the office.

  One said, "The Senior Fellow's vote!"
   The Senior Fellow, black of coat,
     Save where his front was white,
   Arose and sniffed the stranger's shoes
   With critic nose, as ancients use
     To judge mankind aright.

  I--for 'twas I who tell the tale--
   Conscious of fortune's trembling scale,
     Awaited the decree;
   But Tom had judged: "He loves our race,"
   And, as to his ancestral place,
     He leapt upon my knee.

  Thenceforth, in common-room and hall,
   A verus socius known to all,
     I came and went and sat,
   Far from cross fate's or envy's reach;
   For none a title could impeach
     Accepted by the cat.

It was at this time that Mr. Townsend wrote me, on behalf of himself and his partner, a letter
stating definitely that if I would devote myself to The Spectator, he and Hutton would guarantee
me at once a certain salary, though I might still take any work I liked outside. But this was
not all. The letter went on to say that the first of the partners who died or retired would
offer me a half-share of the paper. It was pointed out that, of course, that might conceivably
mean a fairly long apprenticeship, but that it was far more likely to mean a short one. It
proved to be neither the one nor the other, but what might be called a compromise period of
some ten years.

And so in the course of a very few weeks my fate had been decided for me and the question I
had so often put to myself: Should I stick to the Bar or throw in my lot with journalism? was
answered. A great wave had seized me and cast me up upon the shore of 1 Wellington Street.
I felt breathless but happy. Though I did not fully realise how deeply my life had been affected
by the decision or how strange in some ways was the course that lay before me, I had an instinctive
feeling that I must follow wholeheartedly the path of Destiny. I determined to free my mind
from all thoughts of a return to the Bar. I shut my eyes for ever to the vision of myself as
Lord Chancellor or Lord Chief Justice--a vision that has haunted every young man who has ever
embarked upon the study of English Law;--the vision of which Dr. Johnson, even at the end of
his life, could not speak without profound emotion.

