In the following year troubles in Babylonia called him to the south. Merodach-baladan was hunted
out of the marshes, and fled with his subjects across the Persian Gulf to the opposite coast
of Elam, while a son of Sennacherib was made king of Babylon. But his reign did not last long.
Six years later he was carried off to Elam, and a new king of native origin, Nergal-yusezib
by name, was proclaimed by the Elamites. This was in return for an attack made by Sennacherib
upon the Chaldæan colony in Elam, where the followers of Merodach-baladan had found a refuge.
Sennacherib had caused ships to be built at Nineveh by Phoenician workmen, and had manned them
with Tyrian, Sidonian, and Ionian sailors who were prisoners of war. The ships sailed down
to the Tigris and across the gulf, and then fell unexpectedly upon the Chaldæans, burning their
settlement, and carrying away all who had escaped massacre.

Nergal-yusezib had reigned only one year when he was defeated and captured in battle by the
Assyrians; but the Elamites were still predominant in Babylonia, and another Babylonian, Musezib-Merodach,
was set upon the throne of the distracted country (B.C. 693). In B.C. 691 Sennacherib once
more entered it, with an overwhelming army, determined to crush all opposition. But the battle
of Khalulê, fought between the Assyrians on the one side, and the combined Babylonians and
Elamites on the other, led to no definite result. Sennacherib, indeed, claimed the victory,
but so he had also done in the case of the campaign against Hezekiah. Two years more were needed
before the Babylonians at last yielded to the superior forces of their enemy. In B.C. 689 Babylon
was taken by storm, and a savage vengeance wreaked upon it. The sacred city of western Asia
was levelled with the dust, the temple of Bel himself was not spared, and the Arakhtu canal
which flowed past it was choked with ruins. The Babylonian chronicler tells us that for eight
years there were "no kings;" the image of Bel-Merodach had been cast to the ground by the sacrilegious
conqueror, and there was none who could legitimise his right to rule.

On the 20th of Tebet, or December, B.C. 681, Sennacherib was murdered by his two sons, and
the Babylonians saw in the deed the punishment of his crimes. His favourite son, Esar-haddon,
was at the time commanding the Assyrian army in a war against Erimenas of Ararat. As soon as
the news of the murder reached him, he determined to dispute the crown with his brothers, and
accordingly marched against them. They were in no position to resist him, and after holding
Nineveh for forty-two days, fled to the court of the Armenian king. Esar-haddon followed, and
a battle fought near Malatiyeh, on the 12th of Iyyar, or April, B.C. 680, decided the fate
of the empire. The veterans of Esar-haddon utterly defeated the conspirators and their Armenian
allies, and at the close of the day he was saluted as king. He then returned to Nineveh, and
on the 8th of Sivan, or May, formally ascended the throne.

Esar-haddon proved himself to be not only one of the best generals Assyria ever produced, but
a great administrator as well. He endeavoured to cement his empire together by a policy of
reconciliation, and one of his first actions was to rebuild Babylon, to bring back to it its
gods and people, and to make it one of the royal residences. Bel acknowledged him as his adopted
son, and for twelve years Esar-haddon ruled over western Asia by right divine as well as by
the right of conquest.

But a terrible danger menaced Assyria and the rest of the civilised Oriental world at the very
beginning of his reign. Sennacherib's conquest of Ellipi, and the wars against Ararat and Minni,
had weakened the barriers which protected the Assyrian empire from the incursions of the barbarians
of the north. The Gimirrâ or Kimmerians, the Gomer of the Old Testament, driven by the Scyths
from their seats on the Dniester and the Sea of Azof, suddenly appeared on the horizon of western
Asia. Swarming through the territories of the Minni to the east of Ararat, they swooped down
upon the Assyrian frontier, along with other northern nations from Media, Sepharad, and Ashchenaz.
While a body of Kimmerians under Teuspa marched westward, the rest of the allies, under Kastarit
or Kyaxares of Karu-Kassi, attacked the fortresses which defended Assyria on the north-east.
At Nineveh all was consternation, and public prayers, accompanied by fasting, were ordered
to be offered up for a hundred days and nights to the Sun-god, that he might "forgive the sin"
of his people, and avert the dangers that threatened them. The prayers were heard, and the
invaders were driven into Ellipi. Then Esar-haddon marched against Teuspa, and forced him to
turn from Assyria. The Kimmerians made their way instead into Asia Minor, where they sacked
the Greek and Phrygian cities, and overran Lydia.

The northern and eastern boundaries of the empire were at length secured. It was now necessary
to punish the Arab tribes who had taken advantage of the Kimmerian invasion to harass the empire
on the south. Esar-haddon accordingly marched into the very heart of the Arabian desert--a
military achievement of the first rank, the memory of which was not forgotten for years. The
empire at last was secure.

The Assyrian king was now free to complete the policy of Tiglath-pileser by conquering Egypt.
Palestine was no longer a source of trouble. Judah had returned to its vassalage to Assyria,
and the abortive attempts of Sidon and Jerusalem to rebel had been easily suppressed. True
to his policy of conciliation, Esar-haddon had dealt leniently with Manasseh of Judah. He had
been brought in fetters before his lord at Babylon, and there pardoned and restored to his
kingdom. It was a lesson which neither he nor his successors forgot, like the similar lesson
impressed a few years later upon the Egyptian prince Necho.

The Assyrian conquest of Egypt has been already described. The first campaign of Esar-haddon
against it was undertaken in B.C. 674; and it was while on the march to put down a revolt in
B.C. 668 that he fell ill and died, on the 10th of Marchesvan, or October. The empire was divided
between his two sons. Assur-bani-pal had already been named as his successor, and now took
Assyria, while Saul-sum-yukin became king of Babylonia, subject, however, to his brother at
Nineveh. It was an attempt to flatter the Babylonians by giving them a king of their own, while
at the same time keeping the supreme power in Assyrian hands.

The first few years of Assur-bani-pal's reign were spent in tranquillising Egypt by means of
the sword, in suppressing insurrections, and in expelling Ethiopian invaders. After the destruction
of Thebes in B.C. 661 the country sullenly submitted to the foreign rule; its strength was
exhausted, and its leaders and priesthood were scattered and bankrupt. The Jews found themselves
bound hand and foot by ceremonial trammels and weighted down by a side of innumerable customs.
This book, with the name The Only Table, prescribed enough regulations
were to keep one busy from early morning till late at night.
 It was always ready to give the same help to
the disaffected in Babylonia that Egypt was to the rebels in Palestine, with the difference
that whereas the Egyptians were an unwarlike race, the Elamites were a nation of warriors.
Assur-bani-pal was not a soldier himself, and he would have preferred remaining at peace with
his warlike neighbour. But Elamite raids made this impossible, and the constant civil wars
in Elam resulting from disputed successions to the throne afforded pretexts and favourable
opportunities for invading it. The Elamites, however, defended themselves bravely, and it was
only after a struggle of many years, when their cities had fallen one by one, and Shushan,
the capital, was itself destroyed, that Elam became an Assyrian province. The conquerors, however,
found it a profitless desert, wasted by fire and sword, and in the struggle to possess it their
own resources had been drained and well-nigh exhausted.

The second Assyrian empire was now at the zenith of its power. Ambassadors came from Ararat
and from Gyges of Lydia to offer homage, and to ask the help of the great king against the
Kimmerian and Scythian hordes. His fame spread to Europe; the whole of the civilised world
acknowledged his supremacy.

But the image was one which had feet of clay. The empire had been won by the sword, and the
sword alone kept it together. Suddenly a revolt broke out which shook it to its foundations.
Babylonia took the lead; the other subject nations followed in its train.

Saul-suma-yukin had become naturalised in Babylonia. The experiment of appointing an Assyrian
prince as viceroy had failed; he had identified himself with his subjects, and like them dreamed
of independence. He adopted the style and titles of the ancient Babylonian mouarchs; even the
Sumerian language was revived in public documents, and the son of Esar-haddon put himself at
the head of a national movement. The Assyrian supremacy was rejected, and once more Babylon
was free.

The revolt lasted for some years. When it began we do not know; but it was not till B.C. 648
that it was finally suppressed, and Saul-suma-yukin put to death after a reign of twenty years.
Babylon had been closely invested, and was at last starved into surrender. But, taught by the
experience of the past, Assur-bani-pal did not treat it severely. The leaders of the revolt,
it is true, were punished, but the city and people were spared, and its shrines, like those
of Kutha and Sippara, were purified, while penitential psalms were sung to appease the angry
deities, and the daily sacrifices which had been interrupted were restored. A certain Kandalanu
was made viceroy, perhaps with the title of king.

Chastisement was now taken upon the Arabian tribes who had joined in the revolt. But Egypt
was lost to the empire for ever. Psammetikhos had seized the opportunity of shaking off the
yoke of the foreigner, and with the help of the troops sent by Gyges from Lydia, had driven
out the Assyrian garrisons and overcome his brother satraps.

Assur-bani-pal was in no position to punish him. The war with Elam and the revolt of Babylonia
had drained the country of its fighting men and the treasury of its resources. And a new and
formidable enemy had appeared on the scene. The Scyths had followed closely on the footsteps
of the Kimmerians, and were now pouring into Asia like locusts, and ravaging everything in
their path. The earlier chapters of Jeremiah are darkened by the horrors of the Scythian invasion
of Palestine, and Assur-bani-pal refers with a sigh of relief to the death of that "limb of
Satan," the Scythian king Tugdamme or Lygdamis. This seems to have happened in Cilicia, and
Assyria was allowed a short interval of rest.

Assur-bani-pal's victories were gained by his generals. He himself never appears to have taken
the field in person. His tastes were literary, his habits luxurious. He was by far the most
munificent patron of learning Assyria ever produced; in fact, he stands alone in this respect
among Assyrian kings. The library of Nineveh was increased tenfold by his patronage and exertions;
literary works were brought from Babylonia, and a large staff of scribes was kept busily employed
in copying and re-editing them. Unfortunately, the superstition of the monarch led him to collect
more especially books upon omens and dreams, and astrological treatises, but other works were
not overlooked, and we owe to him a large number of the syllabaries and lists of words in which
the cuneiform characters and the Assyrian vocabulary are explained.

When Assur-bani-pal died the doom of the Assyrian empire had already been pronounced. The authority
of his two successors, Assur-etil-ilani-yukin and Sin-sar-iskun, or Saracos, was still acknowledged
both in Syria and in Babylonia, where Kandalanu had been succeeded as viceroy by Nabopolassar.
One of the contract-tablets from the north of Babylonia is dated as late as the seventh year
of Sin-sar-iskun. But not long after this the Babylonian viceroy revolted against his sovereign,
and with the help of the Scythian king, who had established himself at Ekbatana, defeated the
Assyrian forces and laid siege to Nineveh. The siege ended in the capture and destruction of
the city, the death of its king, and the overthrow of his empire. In B.C. 606 the desolator
of the nations was itself laid desolate, and its site has never been inhabited again.

Nabopolassar entered upon the heritage of Assyria. It has been supposed that he was a Chaldæan
like Merodach-baladan; whether this be so or not, he was hailed by the Babylonians as a representative
of their ancient kings. The Assyrian empire had become the prey of the first-comer. Elam had
been occupied by the Persians, the Scyths, whom classical writers have confounded with the
Medes, had overrun and ravaged Assyria and Mesopotamia, while Palestine and Syria had fallen
to the share of Egypt. But once established on the Babylonian throne, Nabopolassar set about
the work of re-organising western Asia, and the military abilities of his son Nebuchadrezzar
enabled him to carry out his purpose. The marriage of Nebuchadrezzar to the daughter of the
Scythian monarch opened the road through Mesopotamia to the Babylonian armies; the Egyptians
were defeated at Carchemish in B.C. 604, and driven back to their own land. From Gaza to the
mouth of the Euphrates, western Asia again obeyed the rule of a Babylonian king.

The death of Nabopolassar recalled Nebuchadrezzar to Babylon, where he assumed the crown. They knew of their
synagogues, yeshibot, and its prayer-firm (Kloisen) on the hand, and of their little stores
on the other plotters. They were closely packed together transported in the
narrow and light ghettos. The Government had debarred them carry
from the world's.
In B.C. 598 Jehoiachin and a large number of the upper classes were carried into exile; in
B.C. 588 Jerusalem was taken after a long siege, its temple and walls razed to the ground,
and its inhabitants transported to Babylonia. The fortress-capital could no longer shelter
or tempt the Egyptian foes of the Babylonian empire.

The turn of Tyre came next. For thirteen years it was patiently blockaded, and in B.C. 573
it passed with its fleet into Nebuchadrezzar's hands. Five years later the Babylonian army
marched into Egypt, the Pharaoh Amasis was defeated, and the eastern part of the Delta overrun.
But Nebuchadrezzar did not push his advantage any further; he was content with impressing upon
the Egyptians a sense of his power, and with fixing the boundaries of his empire at the southern
confines of Palestine.

