The apostle Paul is a very keen and cogent reasoner. Like a powerful logician who is confident
that he has the truth upon his side, and like a pureminded man who has no sinister ends to
gain, he often takes his stand upon the same ground with his opponent, adopts his positions,
and condemns him out of his own mouth. In the passage from which the text is taken, he brings
the Jew in guilty before God, by employing the Jew's own claims and statements. As if he had
said: "You claim to be one of God's chosen people, to possess a true knowledge of Him and His
law; why do you not act up to this knowledge? why do you not by your character and conduct
prove the claim to be a valid one?"

The apostle had already employed this same species of argument against the Gentile world. In
the first chapter of this Epistle to the Romans, St. Paul demonstrates that the pagan world
is justly condemned by God, because, they too, like the Jew, knew more than they practised.
The apostle does not for an instant concede, that the Gentile can put in the plea that he was
so entirely ignorant of the character and law of God, that he ought to be excused from the
obligation to love and obey Him. He expressly affirms that where there is absolutely no law,
and no knowledge of law, there can be no transgression; and yet affirms that in the day of
judgment every mouth must be stopped, and the whole world must plead guilty before God. It
is indeed true, that he teaches that there is a difference in the degrees of knowledge which
the Jew and the Gentile respectively possess. The light of revealed religion, in respect to
man's duty and obligations, is far clearer than the light of nature, and increases the responsibilities
of those who enjoy it, and the condemnation of those who abuse it; but the light of nature
is clear and true as far as it goes, and is enough to condemn every soul outside of the pale
of Revelation. For, in the day of judgment, there will not be a single human creature who can
look his Judge in the eye, and say: "I acted up to every particle of moral light that I enjoyed;
I never thought a thought, felt a feeling, or did a deed, for which my conscience reproached me."

It follows from this, that the language of the apostle, in the text, may be applied to every
man. The argument that has force for the Jew has force for the Gentile. You who know the character
and claims of God, and are able to state them to another, why do you not revere and obey them
in your own person? You who approve of the law of God as pure and perfect, why do you not conform
your own heart and conduct to it? You who perceive the excellence of piety in another, you
who praise and admire moral excellence in your fellow-man, why do you not seek after it, and
toil after it in your own heart? In paying this tribute of approbation to the character of
a God whom you do not yourself love and serve, and to a piety in your neighbor which you do
not yourself possess and cultivate, are you not writing down your own condemnation? How can
you stand before the judgment-seat of God, after having in this manner confessed through your
whole life upon earth that God is good, and His law is perfect, and yet through that whole
life have gone counter to your own confession, neither loving that God, nor obeying that law?
"To him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin." (James iv. 17.)

The text then, together with the chains of reasoning that are connected with it, leads us to
consider the fact, that a man may admire and praise moral excellence without possessing or
practising it himself; that the approbation of goodness is not the same as the love of it.[1]

I. This is proved, in the first place, from the testimony of both God and man. The assertions
and reasonings of the apostle Paul have already been alluded to, and there are many other passages
of Scripture which plainly imply that men may admire and approve of a virtue which they do
not practise. Indeed, the language of our Lord respecting the Scribes and Pharisees, may be
applied to disobedient mankind at large: "Whatsoever they bid you observe, that observe and
do; but do ye not after their works: for they say, and do not." (Matt, xxiii. 3.) The testimony
of man is equally explicit. That is a very remarkable witness which the poet Ovid bears to
this truth. "I see the right,"--he says,--"and approve of it, but I follow and practise the
wrong." This is the testimony of a profligate man of pleasure, in whom the light of nature
had been greatly dimmed in the darkness of sin and lust. But he had not succeeded in annihilating
his conscience, and hence, in a sober hour, he left upon record his own damnation. He expressly
informed the whole cultivated classical world, who were to read his polished numbers, that
he that had taught others had not taught himself; that he who had said that a man should not
commit adultery had himself committed adultery; that an educated Roman who never saw the volume
of inspiration, and never heard of either Moses or Christ, nevertheless approved of and praised
a virtue that he never put in practice. And whoever will turn to the pages of Horace, a kindred
spirit to Ovid both in respect to a most exquisite taste and a most refined earthliness, will
frequently find the same confession breaking out. Nay, open the volumes of Rousseau, and even
of Voltaire, and read their panegyrics of virtue, their eulogies of goodness. What are these,
but testimonies that they, too, saw the right and did the wrong. It is true, that the eulogy
is merely sentimentalism, and is very different from the sincere and noble tribute which a
good man renders to goodness. Still, it is valid testimony to the truth that the mere approbation
of goodness is not the love of it. It is true, that these panegyrics of virtue, when read in
the light of Rousseau's sensuality and Voltaire's malignity, wear a dead and livid hue, like
objects seen in the illumination from phosphorus or rotten wood; yet, nevertheless, they are
visible and readable, and testify as distinctly as if they issued from elevated and noble natures,
that the teachings of man's conscience are not obeyed by man's heart,--that a man may praise
and admire virtue, while he loves and practises vice.

II. A second proof that the approbation of goodness is not the love of it is found in the fact,
that it is impossible not to approve of goodness, while it is possible not to love it. The
structure of man's conscience is such, that he can commend only the right; but the nature of
his will is such, that he may be conformed to the right or the wrong. The conscience can give
only one judgment; but the heart and will are capable of two kinds of affection, and two courses
of action. Every rational creature is shut up, by his moral sense, to but one moral conviction.
He must approve the right and condemn the wrong. He cannot approve the wrong and condemn the
right; any more than he can perceive that two and two make five. The human conscience is a
rigid and stationary faculty. Its voice may be stifled or drowned, for a time; but it can never
be made to titter two discordant voices. It is for this reason, that the approbation of goodness
is necessary and universal. Wicked men and wicked angels must testify that benevolence is right,
and malevolence is wrong; though they hate the former, and love the latter.

But it is not so with the human will. This is not a rigid and stationary faculty. It is capable
of turning this way, and that way. It was created holy, and it turned from holiness to sin,
in Adam's apostasy. And now, under the operation of the Divine Spirit, it turns back again,
it converts from sin to holiness. The will of man is thus capable of two courses of action,
while his conscience is capable of only one judgment; and hence he can see and approve the
right, yet love and practise the wrong. If a man's conscience changed along with his heart
and his will, so that when he began to love and practise sin, he at the same time began to
approve of sin, the case would be different. If, when Adam apostatised from God, his conscience
at that moment began to take sides with his sin, instead of condemning it, then, indeed, neither
Ovid, nor Horace, nor Rousseau, nor any other one of Adam's posterity, would have been able
to say: "I see the right and approve of it, while I follow the wrong." But it was not so. After
apostasy, the conscience of Adam passed the same judgment upon sin that it did before. Adam
heard its terrible voice speaking in concert with the voice of God, and hid himself. He never
succeeded in bringing his conscience over to the side of his heart and will, and neither has
any one of his posterity. It is impossible to do this. Satan himself, after millenniums of
sin, still finds that his conscience, that the accusing and condemning law written on the heart,
is too strong for him to alter, too rigid for him to bend. The utmost that either he, or any
creature, can do, is to drown its verdict for a time in other sounds, only to hear the thunder-tones
again, waxing longer and louder like the trumpet of Sinai.

Having thus briefly shown that the approbation of goodness is not the love of it, we proceed
to draw some conclusions from the truth.

1. In the first place, it follows from this subject, that the mere workings of conscience are
no proof of holiness. When, after the commission of a wrong act, the soul of a man is filled
with self-reproach, he must not take it for granted that this is the stirring of a better nature
within him, and is indicative of some remains of original righteousness. This reaction of conscience
against his disobedience of law is as necessary, and unavoidable, as the action of his eyelids
under the blaze of noon, and is worthy neither of praise nor blame, so far as he is concerned.
It does not imply any love for holiness, or any hatred of sin. Nay, it may exist without any
sorrow for sin, as in the instance of the hardened transgressor who writhes under its awful
power, but never sheds a penitential tear, or sends up a sigh for mercy. The distinction between
the human conscience, and the human heart, is as wide as between the human intellect, and the
human heart.[2] We never think of confounding the functions and operations of the understanding
with those of the heart. We know that an idea or a conception, is totally different from an
emotion, or a feeling. How often do we remark, that a man may have an intellectual perception,
without any correspondent experience or feeling in his heart. How continually does the preacher
urge his hearers to bring their hearts into harmony with their understandings, so that their
intellectual orthodoxy may become their practical piety.

Now, all this is true of the distinction between the conscience and the heart. The conscience
is an intellectual faculty, and by that better elder philosophy which comprehended all the
powers of the soul under the two general divisions of understanding and will, would be placed
in the domain of the understanding. Conscience is a light, as we so often call it. It is not
a life; it is not a source of life. No man's heart and will can be renewed or changed by his
conscience. Conscience is simply a law. Conscience is merely legislative; it is never executive.
It simply says to the heart and will: "Do thus, feel thus," but it gives no assistance, and
imparts no inclination to obey its own command.

Those, therefore, commit a grave error both in philosophy and religion, who confound the conscience
with the heart, and suppose that because there is in every man self-reproach and remorse after
the commission of sin, therefore there is the germ of holiness within him. Holiness is love,
the positive affection of the heart. It is a matter of the heart and the will. But this remorse
is purely an affair of the conscience, and the heart has no connection with it. Nay, it appears
in its most intense form, in those beings whose feelings emotions and determinations are in
utmost opposition to God and goodness. The purest remorse in the universe is to be found in
those wretched beings whose emotional and active powers, whose heart and will, are in the most
bitter hostility to truth and righteousness. How, then, can the mere reproaches and remorse
of conscience be regarded as evidence of piety?

2. But, we may go a step further than this, though in the same general direction, and remark,
in the second place, that elevated moral sentiments are no certain proof of piety toward God
and man. These, too, like remorse of conscience, spring out of the intellectual structure,
and may exist without any affectionate love of God in the heart. There is a species of nobleness
and beauty in moral excellence that makes an involuntary and unavoidable impression. When the
Christian martyr seals his devotion to God and truth with his blood; when a meek and lowly
disciple of Christ clothes his life of poverty, and self-denial, with a daily beauty greater
than that of the lilies or of Solomon's array; when the poor widow with feeble and trembling
steps comes up to the treasury of the Lord, and casts in all her living; when any pure and
spiritual act is performed out of solemn and holy love of God and man, it is impossible not
to be filled with sentiments of admiration, and oftentimes, with an enthusiastic glow of soul.
We see this in the impression which the character of Christ universally makes. There are multitudes
of men, to whom that wonderful sinless life shines aloft like a star. But they do not imitate
it. They admire it, but they do not love it.[3] The spiritual purity and perfection of the
Son of God rays out a beauty which really attracts their cultivated minds, and their refined
taste; but when He says to them: "Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me, for I am meek and
lowly of heart; take up thy cross daily and follow me;" they turn away sorrowful, like the
rich young man in the Gospel,--sorrowful, because their sentiments like his are elevated, and
they have a certain awe of eternal things, and know that religion is the highest concern; and
sorrowful, because their hearts and wills are still earthly, there is no divine love in their
souls, self is still their centre, and the self-renunciation that is required of them is repulsive.
Religion is submission,--absolute submission to God,--and no amount of mere admiration of religion
can be a substitute for it.

As a thoughtful observer looks abroad over society, he sees a very interesting class who are
not far from the kingdom of God; who, nevertheless, are not within that kingdom, and who, therefore,
if they remain where they are, are as certainly lost as if they were at an infinite distance
from the kingdom. The homely proverb applies to them: "A miss is as good as a mile." They are
those who suppose that elevated moral sentiments, an aesthetic pleasure in noble acts or noble
truths, a glow and enthusiasm of the soul at the sight or the recital of examples of Christian
virtue and Christian grace, a disgust at the gross and repulsive forms and aspects of sin,--that
such merely intellectual and aesthetic experiences as these are piety itself. All these may
be in the soul, without any godly sorrow over sin, any cordial trust in Christ's blood, any
self-abasement before God, any daily conflict with indwelling corruption, any daily cross-bearing
and toil for Christ's dear sake. These latter, constitute the essence of the Christian experience,
and without them that whole range of elevated sentiments and amiable qualities, to which we
have alluded, only ministers to the condemnation instead of the salvation of the soul. For,
the question of the text comes home with solemn force, to all such persons. "Thou that makest
thy boast of the law, through breaking of the law, dishonorest thou God?" If the beauty of
virtue, and the grandeur of truth, and the sublimity of invisible things, have been able to
make such an impression upon your intellects, and your tastes,--upon that part of your constitution
which is fixed and stationary, which responds organically to such objects, and which is not
the seat of moral character,--then why is there not a corresponding influence and impression
made by them upon your heart? If you can admire and praise them, in this style, why do you
not love them? Why is it, that when the character of Christ bows your intellect, it does not
bend your will, and sway your affections? Must there not be an inveterate opposition and resistance
in the heart? in the heart which can refuse submission to such high claims, when so distinctly
seen? in the heart which can refuse to take the yoke, and learn of a Teacher who has already
made such an impression upon the conscience and the understanding?

The human heart is, as the prophet affirms, desperately wicked, desperately selfish. And perhaps
its self-love is never more plainly seen, than in such instances as those of that moral and
cultivated young man mentioned in the Gospel, and that class in modern society who correspond
to him. Nowhere is the difference between the approbation of goodness, and the love of it,
more apparent. In these instances the approbation is of a high order. It is refined and sublimated
by culture and taste. It is not stained by the temptations of low life, and gross sin. If there
ever could be a case, in which the intellectual approbation of goodness would develop and pass
over into the affectionate and hearty love of it, we should expect to find it here. But it
is not found. The young man goes away,--sorrowful indeed,--but he goes away from the Redeemer
of the world, never to return. The amiable, the educated, the refined, pass on from year to
year, and, so far as the evangelic sorrow, and the evangelic faith are concerned, like the
dying Beaufort depart to judgment making no sign. We hear their praises of Christian men, and
Christian graces, and Christian actions; we enjoy the grand and swelling sentiments with which,
perhaps, they enrich the common literature of the world; but we never hear them cry: "God be
merciful to me a sinner; O Lamb of God, that takest away the sin of the world, grant me thy
peace; Thou, O God, art the strength of my heart, and my portion forever."

3. In the third place, it follows from this subject, that in order to holiness in man there
must be a change in his heart and will. If our analysis is correct, no possible modification
of either his conscience, or his intellect, would produce holiness. Holiness is an affection
of the heart, and an inclination of the will. It is the love and practice of goodness, and
not the mere approbation and admiration of it. Now, suppose that the conscience should be stimulated
to the utmost, and remorse should be produced until it filled the soul to overflowing, would
there be in this any of that gentle and blessed affection for God and goodness, that heartfelt
love of them, which is the essence of religion? Or, suppose that the intellect merely were
impressed by the truth, and very clear perceptions of the Christian system and of the character
and claims of its Author were imparted, would the result be any different? If the heart and
will were unaffected; if the influences and impressions were limited merely to the conscience
and the understanding; would not the seat of the difficulty still be untouched? The command
is not: "Give me thy conscience," but, "Give me thy heart."

Hence, that regeneration of which our Lord speaks in his discourse with Nicodemus is not a
radical change of the conscience, but of the will and affections. We have already seen that
the conscience cannot undergo a radical change. It can never be made to approve what it once
condemned, and to condemn what it once approved. It is the stationary legislative faculty,
and is, of necessity, always upon the side of law and of God. Hence, the apostle Paul sought
to commend the truth which he preached, to every man's conscience, knowing that every man's
conscience was with him. The conscience, therefore, does not need to be converted, that is
to say, made opposite to what it is. It is indeed greatly stimulated, and rendered vastly more
energetic, by the regeneration of the heart; but this is not radically to alter it. This is
to develop and educate the conscience; and when holiness is implanted in the will and affections,
by the grace of the Spirit, we find that both the conscience and understanding are wonderfully
unfolded and strengthened. But they undergo no revolution or conversion. The judgments of the
conscience are the same after regeneration, that they were before; only more positive and emphatic.
The convictions of the understanding continue, as before, to be upon the side of truth; only
they are more clear and powerful.

The radical change, therefore, must be wrought in the heart and will. These are capable of
revolutions and radical changes. They can apostatise in Adam, and be regenerated in Christ.
They are not immovably fixed and settled, by their constitutional structure, in only one way.
They have once turned from holiness to sin; and now they must be turned back again from sin
to holiness. They must become exactly contrary to what they now are. The heart must love what
it now hates, and must hate what it now loves. The will must incline to what it now disinclines,
and disincline to what it now inclines. But this is a radical change, a total change, an entire
revolution. If any man be in Christ Jesus, he is a new creature, in his will and affections,
in his inclination and disposition. While, therefore, the conscience must continue to give
the same old everlasting testimony as before, and never reverse its judgments in the least,
the affections and will, the pliant, elastic, plastic part of man, the seat of vitality, of
emotion, the seat of character, the fountain out of which proceed the evil thoughts or the
good thoughts,--this executive, emotive, responsible part of man, must be reversed, converted,
radically changed into its own contrary.

So long, therefore, as this change remains to be effected in an individual, there is and can
be no holiness within him,--none of that holiness without which no man can see the Lord. There
may be within him a very active and reproaching conscience; there may be intellectual orthodoxy
and correctness in religious convictions; he may cherish elevated moral sentiments, and many
attractive qualities springing out of a cultivated taste and a jealous self-respect may appear
in his character; but unless he loves God and man out of a pure heart fervently, and unless
his will is entirely and sweetly submissive to the Divine will, so that he can say: "Father
not my will, but thine be done," he is still a natural man. He is still destitute of the spiritual
mind, and to him it must be said, as it was to Nicodemus: "Except a man be born again, he cannot
see the kingdom of God." The most important side of his being is still alienated from God.
The heart with its affections; the will with its immense energies,--the entire active and emotive
portions of his nature,--are still earthly, unsubmissive, selfish, and sinful.

4. In the fourth, and last place, we see from this subject the necessity of the operation of
the Holy Spirit, in order to holiness in man.

There is no part of man's complex being which is less under his own control, than his own will,
and his own affections. This he discovers, as soon as he attempts to convert them; as soon
as he tries to produce a radical change in them. Let a man whose will, from centre to circumference,
is set upon self and the world, attempt to reverse it, and set it with the same strength and
energy upon God and heaven, and he will know that his will is too strong for him, and that
he cannot overcome himself. Let a man whose affections cleave like those of Dives to earthly
good, and find their sole enjoyment in earthly pleasures, attempt to change them into their
own contraries, so that they shall cleave to God, and take a real delight in heavenly things,--let
a carnal man try to revolutionize himself into a spiritual man,--and he will discover that
the affections and feelings of his heart are beyond his control. And the reason of this is
plain. The affections and will of a man show what he loves, and what he is inclined to. A sinful
man cannot, therefore, overcome his sinful love and inclination, because he cannot make a beginning.
The instant he attempts to love God, he finds his love of himself in the way. This new love
for a new object, which he proposes to originate within himself, is prevented by an old love,
which already has possession. This new inclination to heaven and Divine things is precluded
by an old inclination, very strong and very set, to earth and earthly things. There is therefore
no starting-point, in this affair of self-conversion. He proposes, and he tries, to think a
holy thought, but there is a sinful thought already in the mind. He attempts to start out a
Christian grace,--say the grace of humility,--but the feeling of pride already stands in the
way, and, what is more, remains in the way. He tries to generate that supreme love of God,
of which he has heard so much, but the supreme love of himself is ahead of him, and occupies
the whole ground. In short, he is baffled at every point in this attempt radically to change
his own heart and will, because at every point this heart and will are already committed and
determined. Go down as low as he pleases, he finds sin,--love of sin, and inclination to sin.
He never reaches a point where these cease; and therefore never reaches a point where he can
begin a new love, and a new inclination. The late Mr. Webster was once engaged in a law case,
in which he had to meet, upon the opposing side, the subtle and strong understanding of Jeremiah
Mason. In one of his conferences with his associate counsel, a difficult point to be managed
came to view. After some discussion, without satisfactory results, respecting the best method
of handling the difficulty, one of his associates suggested that the point might after all,
escape the notice of the opposing counsel. To this, Mr. Webster replied: "Not so; go down as
deep as you will, you will find Jeremiah Mason below you." Precisely so in the case of which
we are speaking. Go down as low as you please into your heart and will, you will find your
self below you; you will find sin not only lying at the door, but lying in the way. If you
move in the line of your feelings and affections, you will find earthly feelings and affections
ever below you. If you move in the line of your choice and inclination, you will find a sinful
choice and inclination ever below you. In chasing your sin through the avenues of your fallen
and corrupt soul, you are chasing your horizon; in trying to get clear of it by your own isolated
and independent strength, you are attempting (to use the illustration of Goethe, who however
employed it for a false purpose) to jump off your own shadow.

