To-night we reach the strongly fortified town of Peterwardein, opposite which, just across
a pontoon bridge spanning the Danube, is the larger city of Neusatz.  At Hamenitz we met Professor
Zaubaur, the editor of the Uj Videk, who came down the Danube ahead of us by steamboat; and
now, after housing our machines at our gasthaus in Peterwardein, he pilots us across the pontoon
bridge in the twilight, and into one of those wine- gardens so universal in this part of the
world.  Here at Neusatz I listen to the genuine Hungarian gypsy music for the last time on
the European tour ere bidding the territory of Hungary adieu, for Neusatz is on the Hungarian
side of the Danube.  The professor has evidently let no grass grow beneath his feet since leaving
us scarcely an hour ago at Hamenitz, for he has, in the mean time, ferreted out the only English-speaking
person at present in town, the good Frau Schrieber, an Austrian lady, formerly of Vienna, but
now at Neusatz with her husband, a well-known advocate.  This lady talks English quite fluently.
Though not yet twenty-five she is very, very wise, and among other things she informs her admiring
friends gathered round about us, listening to the - to them - unintelligible flow of a foreign
language, that Englishmen are "very grave beings," a piece of information that wrings from
Igali a really sympathetic response- nothing less than the startling announcement that he hasn't
seen me smile since we left Budapest together, a week ago.  "Having seen the Slavonian, I ought
by all means to see the Hungarian national dance," Frau Schrieber says; adding, "It is a nice
dance for Englishmen to look at, though it is so very gay that English ladies would neither
dance it nor look at it being danced." Ere parting company with this entertaining lady she
agrees that, if I will but remain in Hungary permanently, she knows of a very handsome fraulein
of sixteen summers, who, having heard of my "wonderful journey," is already predisposed in
my favor, and with a little friendly tact and management on her - Frau Schrieber's - part would
no doubt be willing to waive the formalities of a long courtship, and yield up hand and heart
at my request.  I can scarcely think of breaking in twain my trip around the world even for
so tempting a prospect, and I recommend the fair Hungarian to Igali; but "the fraulein has
never heard of Herr Igali, and he will not do."

"Will the fraulein be willing to wait until my journey around the world is completed."

"Yes; she vill vait mit much pleezure; I vill zee dat she vait; und I know you vill return,
for an Englishman alvays forgets his promeezes." Henceforth, when Igali and myself enter upon
a programme of whistling, "Yankee Doodle" is supplanted by "The girl I left behind me," much
to his annoyance, since, not understanding the sentiment responsible for the change, bethinks
"Yankee Doodle" a far better tune.  So much attached, in fact, has Igali become to the American
national air, that he informs the professor and editor of Uj Videk of the circumstance of the
band playing it at Szekszard.  As, after supper, several of us promenade the streets of Neusatz,
the professor links his arm in mine, and, taking the cue from Igali, begs me to favor him by
whistling it.  I try my best to palm this patriotic duty off on Igali, by paying flattering
compliments to his style of whistling; but, after all, the duty falls on me, and I whistle
the tune softly, yet merrily, as we walk along, the professor, spectacled and wise-looking,
meanwhile exchanging numerous nods of recognition with his fellow-Neusatzers we meet.  The
provost-judge of Neusatz shares the honors with Frau Schrieber of knowing more or less English;
but this evening the judge is out of town.  The enterprising professor lies in wait for him,
however, and at 5.30 on Monday morning, while we are dressing, an invasion of our bed-chamber
is made by the professor, the jolly-looking and portly provost-judge, a Slavonian lieutenant
of artillery, and a druggist friend of the others.  The provost- judge and the lieutenant actually
own bicycles and ride them, the only representatives of the wheel in Neusatz and Peterwardein,
and the judge is " very angry " - as he expresses it - that Monday is court day, and to-day
an unusually busy one, for he would be most happy to wheel with us to Belgrade.

The lieutenant fetches his wheel and accompanies us to the next village. Peterwardein is a
strongly fortified place, and, as a poition commanding the Danube so completely, is furnished
with thirty guns of large calibre, a battery certainly not to be despised when posted on a
position so commanding as the hill on which Peterwardein fortress is built.  As the editor
and others at Eszek, so here the professor, the judge, and the druggist unite in a friendly
protest against my attempt to wheel through Asia, and more especially through China, "for everybody
knows it is quite dangerous," they say.  These people cannot possibly understand why it is
that an Englishman or American, knowing of danger beforehand, will still venture ahead; and
when, in reply to their questions, I modestly announce my intention of going ahead, notwithstanding
possible danger and probable difficulties, they each, in turn, shake my hand as though reluctantly
resigning me to a reckless determination, and the judge, acting as spokesman, and echoing and
interpreting the sentiments of his companions, exclaims, "England and America forever! it is
ze grandest peeples on ze world!" The lieutenant, when questioned on the subject by the judge
and the professor, simply shrugs his shoulders and says nothing, as becomes a man whose first
duty is to cultivate a supreme contempt for danger in all its forms.

They all accompany us outside the city gates, when, after mutual farewells and assurances of
good-will, we mount and wheel away down the Danube, the lieutenant's big mastiff trotting soberly
alongside his master, while Igali, sometimes in and sometimes out of sight behind, brings up
the rear.  After the lieutenant leaves us we have to trundle our weary way up the steep gradients
of the Fruskagora Mountains for a number of kilometres.  For Igali it is quite an adventurous
morning.  Ere we had left the shadows of Peterwardein fortress he upset while wheeling beneath
some overhanging mulberry-boughs that threatened destruction to his jockey-cap; soon after
parting company with the lieutenant he gets into an altercation with a gang of gypsies about
being the cause of their horses breaking loose from their picket-ropes and stampeding, and
then making uncivil comments upon the circumstance; an hour after this he overturns again and
breaks a pedal, and when we dismount at Indjia, for our noontide halt, he discovers that his
saddle-spring has snapped in the middle.  As he ruefully surveys the breakage caused by the
roughness of the Fruskagora roads, and sends out to scour the village for a mechanic capable
of undertaking the repairs, he eyes my Columbia wistfully, and asks me for the address where
one like it can be obtained.  The blacksmith is not prepared to mend the spring, although he
makes a good job of the pedal, and it takes a carpenter and his assistant from 1.30 to 4.30
P.M. to manufacture a grooved piece of wood to fit between the spring and backbone so that
he can ride with me to Belgrade.  It would have been a fifteen-minute task for a Yankee carpenter.
We have been traversing a spur of the Fruskagora Mountains all the morning, and our progress
has been slow.  The roads through here are mainly of the natural soil, and correspondingly
bad; but the glorious views of the Danube, with its alternating wealth of green woods and greener
cultivated areas, fully recompense for the extra toil.  Prune-orchards, the trees weighed down
with fruit yet green, clothe the hill-sides with their luxuriance; indeed, the whole broad,
rich valley of the Danube seems nodding and smiling in the consciousness of overflowing plenty;
for days we have traversed roads leading through vineyards and orchards, and broad areas with
promising-looking grain-crops.

It is but thirty kilometres from Indjia to Semlin, on the riverbank opposite Belgrade, and
since leaving the Fruskagora Mountains the country has been a level plain, and the roads fairly
smooth.  But Igali has naturally become doubly cautious since his succession of misadventures
this morning, and as, while waiting for him to overtake me, I recline beneath the mulberry-trees
near the village of Batainitz and survey the blue mountains of Servia looming up to the southward
through the evening haze, he rides up and proposes Batainitz as our halting-place for the night,
adding persuasively, "There will be no ferry-boat across to Belgrade to-night, and we can easily
catch the first boat in the morning." I reluctantly agree, though advocating going on to Semlin
this evening. While our supper is being prepared we are taken in hand by the leading merchant
of the village and "turned loose" in an orchard of small fruits and early pears, and from thence
conducted to a large gypsy encampment in the outskirts of the village, where, in acknowledgment
of the honor of our visit-and a few kreuzers by way of supplement - the "flower of the camp,"
a blooming damsel, about the shade of a total eclipse, kisses the backs of our hands, and the
men play a strumming monotone with sticks and an inverted wooden trough, while the women dance
in a most lively and not ungraceful manner.  These gypsy bands are a happy crowd of vagabonds,
looking as though they had never a single care in all the world; the men wear long, flowing
hair, and to the ordinary costume of the peasant is added many a gewgaw, worn with a careless
jaunty grace that fails not to carry with it a certain charm in spite of unkempt locks and
dirty faces.  The women wear a minimum of clothes and a profusion of beads and trinkets, and
the children go stark naked or partly dressed.

Unmistakable evidence that one is approaching the Orient appears in the semi-Oriental costumes.
of the peasantry and roving gypsy bands, as we gradually near the Servian capital.  An Oriental
costume in Eszek is sufficiently exceptional to be a novelty, and so it is until one gets south
of Peterwardein, when the national costumes of Slavonia and Croatia are gradually merged into
the tasselled fez, the many-folded waistband, and the loose, flowing pantaloons of Eastern
lands.  Here at Batainitz the feet are encased in rude raw-hide moccasins, bound on with leathern
thongs, and the ankle and calf are bandaged with many folds of heavy red material, also similarly
bound.  The scene around our gasthaus, after our arrival, resembles a popular meeting; for,
although a few of the villagers have been to Belgrade and seen a bicycle, it is only within
the last six months that Belgrade itself has boasted one, and the great majority of the Batainitz
people have simply heard enough about them to whet their curiosity for a closer acquaintance.
More-over, from the interest taken in my tour at Belgrade on account of the bicycle's recent
introduction in that capital, these villagers, but a dozen kilometres away, have heard more
of my journey than people in villages farther north, and their curiosity is roused in proportion.

We are astir by five o'clock next morning; but the same curious crowd is making the stone corridors
of the rambling old gasthaus impassable, and filling the space in front, gazing curiously at
us, and commenting on our appearance whenever we happen to become visible, while waiting with
commendable patience to obtain a glimpse of our wonderful machines. They are a motley, and
withal a ragged assembly; old women devoutly cross themselves as, after a slight repast of
bread and milk, we sally forth with our wheels, prepared to start; and the spontaneous murmur
of admiration which breaks forth as we mount becomes louder and more pronounced as I turn in
the saddle and doff my helmet in deference to the homage paid us by hearts which are none the
less warm because hidden beneath the rags of honest poverty and semi-civilization.  It takes
but little to win the hearts of these rude, unsophisticated people.  A two hours' ride from
Batainitz, over level and reasonably smooth roads, brings us into Semlin, quite an important
Slavonian city on the Danube, nearly opposite Belgrade, which is on the same side, but separated
from it by a large tributary called the Save.  Ferry-boats ply regularly between the two cities,
and, after an hour spent in hunting up different officials to gain permission for Igali to
cross over into Servian territory without having a regular traveller's passport, we escape
from the madding crowds of Semlinites by boarding the ferry-boat, and ten minutes later are
exchanging signals! with three Servian wheelmen, who have come down to the landing in full
uniform to meet and welcome us to Belgrade.  Many readers will doubtless be as surprised as
I was to learn that at Belgrade, the capital of the little Kingdom of Servia, independent only
since the Treaty of Berlin, a bicycle club was organized in January, 1885, and that now, in
June of the same year, they have a promising club of thirty members, twelve of whom are riders
owning their own wheels.  Their club is named, in French, La Societe Velocipedique Serbe; in
the Servian language it is unpronounceable to an Anglo-Saxon, and printable only with Slav
type.  The president, Milorade M.  Nicolitch Terzibachitch, is the Cyclists' Touring Club Consul
for Servia, and is the southeastern picket of that organization, their club being the extreme
'cycle outpost in this direction.  Our approach has been announced beforehand, and the club
has thoughtfully "seen" the Servian authorities, and so far smoothed the way for our entrance
into their country that the officials do not even make a pretence of examining my passport
or packages - an almost unprecedented occurrence, I should say, since they are more particular
about passports here than perhaps in any other European country, save Russia and Turkey.  Here
at Belgrade I am to part company with Igali, who, by the way, has applied for, and just received,
his certificate of appointment to the Cyclists' Touring Club Consulship of Duna Szekeso and
Mohacs, an honor of which he feels quite proud.  True, there is no other 'cycler in his whole
district, and hardly likely to be for some time to corne; but I can heartily recommend him
to any wandering wheelman happening down the Danube Valley on a tour; he knows the best wine-cellars
in all the country round, and, besides being an agreeable and accommodating road companion,
will prove a salutary check upon the headlong career of anyone disposed to over-exertion. 
I am not yet to be abandoned entirely to my own resources, however; these hospitable Servian
wheelmen couldn't think of such a thing.  I am to remain over as their guest till to-morrow
afternoon, when Mr. Douchan Popovitz, the best rider in Belgrade, is delegated to escort me
through Servia to the Bulgarian frontier.  When I get there I shall not be much astonished
to see a Bulgarian wheelman offer to escort me to Roumelia, and so on clear to Constantinople;
for I certainly never expected to find so jolly and enthusiastic a company of 'cyclers in this
corner of the world.

The good fellowship and hospitality of this Servian club know no bounds; Igali and I are banqueted
and driven about in carriages all day.

Belgrade is a strongly fortified city, occupying a commanding hill overlooking the Danube;
it is a rare old town, battle-scarred and rugged; having been a frontier position of importance
in a country that has been debatable ground between Turk and Christian for centuries, it has
been a coveted prize to be won and lost on the diplomatic chess-board, or, worse still, the
foot-ball of contending armies and wrangling monarchs. Long before the Ottoman Turks first
appeared, like a small dark cloud, no bigger than a man's hand, upon the southeastern horizon
of Europe, to extend and overwhelm the budding flower of Christianity and civilization in these
fairest portions of the continent, Belgrade was an important Roman fortress, and to-day its
national museum and antiquarian stores are particularly rich in the treasure-trove of Byzantine
antiquities, unearthed from time to time in the fortress itself and the region round about
that came under its protection.  So plentiful, indeed, are old coins and relics of all sorts
at Belgrade, that, as I am standing looking at the collection in the window of an antiquary
shop, the proprietor steps out and presents me a small handful of copper coins of Byzantium
as a sort of bait that might perchance tempt one to enter and make a closer inspection of his
stock.  By the famous Treaty of Berlin the Servians gained their complete independence, and
their country, from a principality, paying tribute to the Sultan, changed to an independent
kingdom with a Servian on the throne, owing allegiance to nobody, and the people have not yet
ceased to show, in a thousand little ways, their thorough appreciation of the change; besides
filling the picture-galleries of their museum with portraits of Servian heroes, battle-flags,
and other gentle reminders of their past history, they have, among other practical methods
of manifesting how they feel about the departure of the dominating crescent from among them,
turned the leading Turkish mosque into a gas- house.  One of the most interesting relics in
the Servian capital is an old Roman well, dug from the brow of the fortress hill to below the
level of the Danube, for furnishing water to the city when cut off from the river by a besieging
army.  It is an enormous affair, a tubular brick wall about forty feet in circumference and
two hundred and fifty feet deep, outside of which a stone stairway, winding round and round
the shaft, leads from top to bottom.  Openings through the wall, six feet high and three wide,
occur at regular intervals all the way down, and, as we follow our ragged guide down, down
into the damp and darkness by the feeble light of a tallow candle in a broken lantern, I cannot
help thinking that these o'erhandy openings leading into the dark, watery depths have, in the
tragic history of Belgrade, doubtless been responsible for the mysterious disappearance of
more than one objectionable person. It is not without certain involuntary misgivings that I
take the lantern from the guide - whose general appearance is, by the way, hardly calculated
to be reassuring - and, standing in one of the openings, peer down into the darksome depths,
with him hanging on to my coat as an act of precaution.

The view from the ramparts of Belgrade fortress is a magnificent panorama, extending over the
broad valley of the Danube - which here winds about as though trying to bestow its favors with
impartiality upon Hungary, Servia, and Slavonia - and of the Save.  The Servian soldiers are
camped in small tents in various parts of the fortress grounds and its environments, or lolling
under the shade of a few scantily verdured trees, for the sun is to-day broiling hot.  With
a population not exceeding one and a half million, I am told that Servia supports a standing
army of a hundred thousand men; and, when required, every man in Servia becomes a soldier.
As one lands from the ferry-boat and looks about him he needs no interpreter to inform him
that he has left the Occident on the other side of the Save, and to the observant stranger
the streets of Belgrade furnish many a novel and interesting sight in the way of fanciful costumes
and phases of Oriental life here encountered for the first time.  In the afternoon we visit
the national museum of old coins, arms, and Eoman and Servian antiquities.  A banquet in a
wine-garden, where Servian national music is dispensed by a band of female musicians, is given
us in the evening by the club, and royal quarters are assigned us for the night at the hospitable
mansion of Mr. Terzibachitch's father, who is the merchant -prince of Servia, and purveyor
to the court.  Wednesday morning we take a general ramble over the city, besides visiting the
club's head-quarters, where we find a handsome new album has been purchased for receiving our
autographs.  The Belgrade wheelmen have names painted on their bicycles, as names are painted
on steamboats or yachts: "Fairy," "Good Luck," and "Servian Queen," being fair specimens. 
The cyclers here are sons of leading citizens and business men of Belgrade, and, while they
dress and conduct themselves as becomes thorough gentlemen, one fancies detecting a certain
wild expression of the eye, as though their civilization were scarcely yet established; in
fact, this peculiar expression is more noticeable at Belgrade, and is apparently more general
here than at any other place I visit in Europe.  I apprehend it to be a peculiarity that has
become hereditary with the citizens, from their city having been so often and for so long the
theatre of uncertain fate and distracting political disturbances.  It is the half-startled
expression of people with the ever-present knowledge of insecurity.  But they are a warm-hearted,
impulsive set of fellows, and when, while looking through the museum, we happen across Her
Britannic Majesty's representative at the Servian court, who is doing the same thing, one of
them unhesitatingly approaches that gentleman, cap in hand, and, with considerable enthusiasm
of manner, announces that they have with them a countryman of his who is riding around the
world on a bicycle.  This cooler-blooded and dignified gentleman is not near so demonstrative
in his acknowledgment as they doubtless anticipated he would be; whereat they appear quite
puzzled and mystified.

Three carriages with cyclers and their friends accompany us a dozen kilometres out to a wayside
mehana (the Oriental name hereabouts for hotels, wayside inns, etc.); Douchan Popovitz, and
Hugo Tichy, the captain of the club, will ride forty-five kilometres with me to Semendria,
and at 4 o'clock we mount our wheels and ride away southward into Servia. Arriving at the mehana,
wine is brought, and then the two Servians accompanying me, and those returning, kiss each
other, after the manner and custom of their country; then a general hand-shaking and well-wishes
all around, and the carriages turn toward Belgrade, while we wheelmen alternately ride and
trundle over a muddy - for it has rained since noon - and mountainous road till 7.30, when
relatives of Douchan Popovitz, in the village of Grotzka, kindly offer us the hospitality of
their house till morning, which we hesitate not to avail ourselves of.  When about to part
at the mehana, the immortal Igali unwinds from around his waist that long blue girdle, the
arranging and rearranging of which has been a familiar feature of the last week's experiences,
and presents it to me for a souvenir of himself, a courtesy which I return by presenting him
with several of the Byzantine coins given to me by the Belgrade antiquary as before mentioned.
Beyond Semendria, where the captain leaves us for the return journey, we leave the course of
the Danube, which I have been following in a general way for over two weeks, and strike due
southward up the smaller, but not less beautiful, valley of the Morava River, where we have
the intense satisfaction of finding roads that are both dry and level, enabling us, in spite
of the broiling heat, to bowl along at a sixteen-kilometre pace to the village, where we halt
for dinner and the usual three hours noontide siesta.  Seeing me jotting down my notes with
a short piece of lead-pencil, the proprietor of the mehana at Semendria, where we take a parting
glass of wine with the captain, and who admires America and the Americans, steps in-doors for
a minute, and returns with a telescopic pencil-case, attached to a silken cord of the Servian"
national colors, which he places abound my neck, requesting me to wear it around the world,
and, when I arrive at my journey's end, sometimes to think of Servia.

With Igali's sky-blue girdle encompassing my waist, and the Servian national colors fondly
encircling my neck, I begin to feel quite a heraldic tremor creeping over me, and actually
surprise myself casting wistful glances at the huge antiquated horse pistol stuck in yonder
bull- whacker's ample waistband; moreover, I really think that a pair of these Servian moccasins
would not be bad foot-gear for riding the bicycle.  All up the Morava Valley the roads continue
far better than I have expected to find in Servia, and we wheel merrily along, the Resara Mountains
covered with dark pine forests, skirting the valley on the right, sometimes rising into peaks
of quite respectable proportions.  The sun sinks behind the receding hills, it grows dusk,
and finally dark, save the feeble light vouchsafed by the new moon, and our destination still
lies several kilometres ahead.  But at about nine we roll safely into Jagodina, well- satisfied
with the consciousness of having covered one hundred and forty- five kilometres to-day, in
spite of delaying our start in the morning until eight o'clock, and the twenty kilometres of
indifferent road between Grotzka and Semendria.  There has been no reclining under road-side
mulberry-trees for my companion to catch up to-day, however; the Servian wheelman is altogether
a speedier man than Igali, and, whether the road is rough or smooth, level or hilly, he is
found close behind my rear wheel; my own shadow follows not more faithfully than does the "best
rider in Servia."

We start for Jagodina at 5.30 next morning, finding the roads a little heavy with sand in places,
but otherwise all that a wheelman could wish. Crossing a bridge over the Morava River, into
Tchupria, we are required not only to foot it across, but to pay a toll for the bicycles, like
any other wheeled vehicle.  At Tchupria it seems as though the whole town must be depopulated,
so great is the throng of citizens that swarm about us.  Motley and picturesque even in their
rags, one's pen utterly fails to convey a correct idea of their appearance; besides Servians,
Bulgarians, and Turks, and the Greek priests who never fail of being on hand, now appear Roumanians,
wearing huge sheep-skin busbies, with the long, ragged edges of the wool dangling about eyes
and ears, or, in the case of a more "dudish " person, clipped around smooth at the brim, making
the head-gear look like a small, round, thatched roof.  Urchins, whose daily duty is to promenade
the family goat around the streets, join in the procession, tugging their bearded charges after
them; and a score of dogs, overjoyed beyond measure at the general commotion, romp about, and
bark their joyous approval of it all.  To have crowds like this following one out of town makes
a sensitive person feel uncomfortably like being chased out of a community for borrowing chickens
by moonlight, or on account of some irregularity concerning hotel bills.  On occasions like
this Orientals seemingly have not the slightest sense of dignity; portly, well-dressed citizens,
priests, and military officers press forward among the crowds of peasants and unwashed frequenters
of the streets, evidently more delighted with things about them than they have been for many
a day before.

At Delegrad we wheel through the battle-field of the same name, where, in 1876, Turks and Servians
were arrayed against each other.  These battle- scarred hills above Delegrad command a glorious
view of the lower Morava Valley, which is hereabouts most beautiful, and just broad enough
for its entire beauty to be comprehended.  The Servians won the battle of Delegrad, and as
I pause to admire the glorious prospect to the southward from the hills, methinks their general
showed no little sagacity in opposing the invaders at a spot where the Morava Vale, the jewel
of Servia, was spread out like a panorama below his position, to fan with its loveliness the
patriotism of his troops - they could not do otherwise than win, with the fairest portion of
their well-beloved country spread out before them like a picture.  A large cannon, captured
from the Turks, is standing on its carriage by the road-side, a mute but eloquent witness of
Servian prowess.

A few miles farther on we halt for dinner at Alexinatz, near the old Servian boundary-line,
also the scene of one of the greatest battles fought during the Servian struggle for independence.
The Turks were victorious this time, and fifteen thousand Servians and three thousand Russian
allies yielded up their lives here to superior Turkish generalship, and Alexiuatz was burned
to ashes.  The Russians have erected a granite monument on a hill overlooking the town, in
memory of their comrades who perished in this fight.  The roads to-day average even better
than yesterday, and at six o'clock we roll into Nisch, one hundred and twenty kilometres from
our starting-point this morning, and two hundred and eighty from Belgrade.  As we enter the
city a gang of convicts working on the fortifications forget their clanking shackles and chains,
and the miseries of their state, long enough to greet us with a boisterous howl of approval,
and the guards who are standing over them for once, at least, fail to check them, for their
attention, too, is wholly engrossed in the same wondrous subject.  Nisch appears to be a thoroughly
Oriental city, and here I see the first Turkish ladies, with their features hidden behind their
white yashmaks.  At seven or eight o'clock in the morning, when it is comparatively cool and
people are patronizing the market, trafficking and bartering for the day's supply of provisions,
the streets present quite an animated appearance; but during the heat of the day the scene
changes to one of squalor and indolence; respectable citizens are smoking nargilehs (Mark Twain's
"hubble-bubble"), or sleeping somewhere out of sight; business is generally suspended, and
in every shady nook and corner one sees a swarthy ragamuffin stretched out at full length,
perfectly happy and contented if only he is allowed to snooze the hours away in peace.

Human nature is verily the same the world over, and here, in the hotel at Nisch, I meet an
individual who recalls a few of the sensible questions that have been asked me from time to
time at different places on both continents.  This Nisch interrogator is a Hebrew commercial
traveller, who has a smattering of English, and who after ascertaining during a short conversation
that, when a range of mountains or any other small obstruction is encountered, I get down and
push the bicycle up, airs his knowledge of English and of 'cycling to the extent of inquiring
whether I don't take a man along to push it up the hills!

Riding out of Nisch this morning we stop just beyond the suburbs to take a curious look at
a grim monument of Turkish prowess, in the shape of a square stone structure which the Turks
built in 1840, and then faced the whole exterior with grinning rows of Servian skulls partially
embedded in mortar.  The Servians, naturally objecting to having the skulls of their comrades
thus exposed to the gaze of everybody, have since removed and buried them; but the rows of
indentations in the thick mortared surface still bear unmistakable evidence of the nature of
their former occupants.  An avenue of thrifty prune-trees shades a level road leading out of
Nisch for several kilometres, but a heavy thunder-storm during the night has made it rather
slavish wheeling, although the surface becomes harder and smoother, also hillier, as we gradually
approach the Balkan Mountains, that tower well up toward cloudland immediately ahead. The morning
is warm and muggy, indicating rain, and the long, steep trundle, kilometre after kilometre,
up the Balkan slopes, is anything but child's play, albeit the scenery is most lovely, one
prospect especially reminding me of a view in the Big Horn Mountains of northern Wyoming Territory.
On the lower slopes we come to a mehana, where, besides plenty of shade-trees, we find springs
of most delightfully cool water gushing out of crevices in the rocks, and, throwing our freely
perspiring forms beneath the grateful shade and letting the cold water play on our wrists (the
best method in the world of cooling one's self when overheated), we both vote that it would
be a most agreeable place to spend the heat of the day.  But the morning is too young yet to
think of thus indulging, and the mountainous prospect ahead warns us that the distance covered
to-day will be short enough at the best.

