At the same time, the survey of the basin of the Dead Sea was completed and rectified. In 1838,
two American Missionaries, Edward Robinson and Eli Smith, gave quite a new impulse to Biblical
geography. They were the forerunners of that phalanx of naturalists, historians, archæologists,
and engineers, who, under the patronage or in conjunction with the English Exploration Society,
were soon to explore the land of the patriarchs from end to end, making maps of it, and achieving
discoveries which threw a new light on the history of the ancient peoples who, by turns, were
possessors of this corner of the Mediterranean basin.

But it was not only the Holy Land, so interesting on account of the many associations it has
for every Christian, which was the scene of the researches of scholars and explorers; Asia
Minor was also soon to yield up her treasures to the curiosity of the learned world. That country
was visited by travellers in every direction. Parrot visited Armenia; Dubois de Monpereux traversed
the Caucasus in 1839. In 1825 and 1826, Eichwald explored the shores of the Caspian Sea; and
lastly, Alexander von Humboldt at the expense of the generous Nicholas, Emperor of Russia,
supplemented his intrepid work as a discoverer in the New World by an exploration of Western
Asia and the Ural Mountains. Accompanied by the mineralogist Gustave Rose, the naturalist Ehrenberg,
well known for his travels in Upper Egypt and Nubia, and Baron von Helmersen, an officer of
engineers, Humboldt travelled through Siberia, visited the gold and platinum mines of the Ural
Mountains, and explored the Caspian steppes and the Altai chain to the frontiers of China.
These learned men divided the work, Humboldt taking astronomical, magnetic, and physical observations,
and examining the flora and fauna of the country, while Rose kept the journal of the expedition,
which he published in German between 1837 and 1842.

Although the explorers travelled very rapidly, at the rate of no less than 11,500 miles in
nine months, the scientific results of their journey were considerable. In a first publication
which appeared in Paris in 1838, Humboldt treated only the climatology and geology of Asia,
but this fragmentary account was succeeded in 1843 by his great work called "Central Asia."
"In this," says La Roquette, "he has laid down and systematized the principal scientific results
of his expedition in Asia, and has recorded some ingenious speculation as to the shape of the
continents and the configuration of the mountains of Tartary, giving special attention to the
vast depression which stretches from the north of Europe to the centre of Asia beyond the Caspian
Sea and the Ural River."

We must now leave Asia and pass in review the various expeditions in the New World, which have
been sent out in succession since the beginning of the present century. In 1807, when Lewis
and Clarke were crossing North America from the United States to the Pacific Ocean, the Government
commissioned a young officer, Lieutenant Zabulon Montgomery Pike, to examine the sources of
the Mississippi. He was at the same time to endeavour to open friendly relations with any Indians
he might meet.

Pike was well received by the Chief of the powerful Sioux nation and presented with the pipe
of peace, a talisman which secured to him the protection of the allied tribes; he ascended
the Mississippi, passing the mouths of the Chippeway and St. Peter, important tributaries of
that great river. But beyond the confluence of the St. Peter with the Mississippi as far as
the Falls of St. Anthony, the course of the main river is impeded by an uninterrupted series
of falls and rapids. A little below the 45th parallel of North latitude, Pike and his companions
had to leave their canoes and continue their journey in sledges. To the severity of a bitter
winter were soon added the tortures of hunger. Nothing, however, checked the intrepid explorers,
who continued to follow the Mississippi, now dwindled down to a stream only 300 roods wide,
and arrived in February at Leech Lake, where they were received with enthusiasm at the camp
of some trappers and fur hunters from Montreal.

After visiting Red Cedar Lake, Pike returned to St. Louis. His arduous and perilous journey
had extended over no less than nine months; and although he had not attained its main object,
it was not without scientific results. The skill, presence of mind, and courage of Pike were
recognized, and the government soon afterwards conferred on him the rank of major, and appointed
him to the command of a fresh expedition. This time he was to explore the vast tract of country
between the Mississippi and the Rocky Mountains, and to discover the sources of the Arkansas
and Red River. With twenty-three companions Pike ascended the Arkansas, a fine river navigable
to the mountains in which it rises, that is to say for a distance of 2000 miles, except in
the summer, when its bed is encumbered with sand-banks. On this long voyage, winter, from which
Pike had suffered so much on his previous trip, set in with redoubled vigour. Game was so scarce
that for four days the explorers were without food. The feet of several men were frostbitten,
and this misfortune added to the fatigue of the others. The major, after reaching the source
of the Arkansas, pursued a southerly direction and soon came to a fine stream which he took
for the Red River.

This was the Rio del Norte, which rises in Colorado, then a Spanish province, and flows into
the Gulf of Mexico.

From what has been already said of the difficulties which Humboldt encountered before he obtained
permission to enter the Spanish possessions in America, we may judge with what jealous suspicion
the arrival of strangers in Colorado was regarded. Pike was surrounded by a detachment of Spanish
soldiers, made prisoner with all his men, and taken to Santa Fé. Their ragged garments, emaciated
forms, and generally miserable appearance did not speak much in their favour, and the Spaniards
at first took the Americans for savages. However, when the mistake was recognized, they were
escorted across the inland provinces to Louisiana, arriving at Natchitoches on the 1st July, 1807.

The unfortunate end of this expedition cooled the zeal of the government, but not that of private
persons, merchants, and hunters, whose numbers were continually on the increase. Many even
completely crossed the American continent from Canada to the Pacific. Amongst these travellers
we must mention Daniel William Harmon, a member of the North-West Company, who visited Lakes
Huron and Superior, Rainy Lake, the Lake of the Woods, Manitoba, Winnipeg, Athabasca, and the
Great Bear Lake, all between N. lat. 47 degrees and 58 degrees, and reached the shores of the
Pacific. The fur company established at Astoria at the mouth of the Columbia also did much
towards the exploration of the Rocky Mountains.

Four associates of that company, leaving Astoria in June, 1812, ascended the Columbia, crossed
the Rocky Mountains, and following an east-south-east direction, reached one of the sources
of the Platte, descended it to its junction with the Missouri, crossed a district never before
explored, and arrived at St. Louis on the 30th May, 1813.

In 1811, another expedition composed of sixty men, started from St. Louis and ascended the
Missouri as far as the settlements of the Ricara Indians, whence they made their way to Astoria,
arriving there at the beginning of 1812, after the loss of several men and great suffering
from fatigue and want of food.

These journeys resulted not only in the increase of our knowledge of the topography of the
districts traversed, but they also brought about quite unexpected discoveries. In the Ohio
valley between Illinois and Mexico for instance, were found ruins, fortifications, and entrenchments,
with ditches and a kind of bastion, many of them covering five or six acres of ground. What
people can have constructed works such as these, which denote a civilization greatly in advance
of that of the Indians, is a difficult problem of which no solution has yet been found.

Philologists and historians were already regretting the dying out of the Indian tribes, who,
until then, had been only superficially observed, and lamenting their extinction before their
languages had been studied. A knowledge of these languages and their comparison with those
of the old world, might have thrown some unexpected light upon the origin of the wandering
tribes.[2]

[Footnote 2: The author has evidently not seen Bancroft's "Native Races of the Pacific," an
exhaustive work in five volumes, published at New York and San Francisco a few years ago, and
which embodies the researches of a number of gentlemen, who collected their information on
the spot, and whose contributions to our knowledge of the past and present life of the Indians
should certainly not be ignored.--Trans.]

Simultaneously with the discovery of the ruins the flora and geology of the country began to
be studied, and in the latter science great surprises were in store for future explorers. It
was so important for the American government to proceed rapidly to reconnoitre the vast territories
between the United States and the Pacific, that another expedition was speedily sent out.

In 1819, the military authorities commissioned Major Long to explore the districts between
the Mississippi and the Rocky Mountains, to trace the course of the Missouri and of its principal
tributaries, to fix the latitude and longitude of the chief places, to study the ways of the
Indian tribes, in fact to describe everything interesting either in the aspect of the country
or in its animal, vegetable, and mineral productions.

Leaving Pittsburgh on the 5th March, 1819, on board the steamship Western Engineer, the expedition
arrived in May of the following year at the junction of the Ohio with the Mississippi, and
ascended the latter river as far as St. Louis. On the 29th June, the mouth of the Missouri
was reached. During the month of July, Mr. Say, who was charged with the zoological observations,
made his way by land to Fort Osage, where he was joined by the steamer. Major Long turned his
stay at Fort Osage to account by sending a party to examine the districts between the Kansas
and the Platte, but this party was attacked, robbed, and compelled to turn back after losing
all their horses. After obtaining at Cow Island a reinforcement of fifteen soldiers, the expedition
reached Fort Lisa, near Council Bluff, on the 19th September. There it was decided to winter.
The Americans suffered greatly from scurvy, and having no medicines to check the terrible disorder,
they lost 100 men, nearly a third of the whole party. Major Long, who had meanwhile reached
Washington in a canoe, brought back orders for the discontinuation of the voyage up the Missouri,
and for a journey overland to the sources of the Platte, whence the Mississippi was to be reached
by way of the Arkansas and Red River. On the 6th June, the explorers left Engineer's Fort,
as they called their winter quarters, and ascended the Platte Valley for more than a hundred
miles, its grassy plains, frequented by vast herds of bisons and deer, supplying them with
plenty of provisions.

Those boundless prairies, whose monotony is unbroken by a single hillock, were succeeded by
a sandy desert gradually sloping up, for a distance of nearly four hundred miles, to the Rocky
Mountains. This desert, broken by precipitous ravines, cañons, and gorges, at the bottom of
which gurgles some insignificant stream, its banks clothed with stunted and meagre vegetation,
produces nothing but cacti with sharp and formidable prickles.

On the 6th July, the expedition reached the foot of the Rocky Mountains. Dr. James scaled one
of the peaks, to which he gave his own name, and which rises to a height of 11,500 feet above
the sea level.

"From the summit of the peak," says the botanist, "the view towards the north, west, and south-west,
is diversified with innumerable mountains all white with snow, and on some of the more distant
it appears to extend down to their bases. Immediately under our feet on the west, lay the narrow
valley of the Arkansas; which we could trace running towards the north-west, probably more
than sixty miles. On the north side of the peak was an immense mass of snow and ice.... To
the east lay the great plain, rising as it receded, until, in the distant horizon, it appeared
to mingle with the sky."

Here the expedition was divided into two parties, one, under the command of Major Long, to
make its way to the sources of the Red River, the other, under Captain Bell, to go down the
Arkansas as far as Port Smith. The two detachments separated on the 24th July. The former,
misled by the statements of the Kaskaia Indians and the inaccuracy of the maps, took the Canadian
for the Red River, and did not discover their mistake until they reached its junction with
the Arkansas. The Kaskaias were the most miserable of savages, but intrepid horsemen, excelling
in lassoing the wild mustangs which are descendants of the horses imported into Mexico by the
Spanish conquerors. The second detachment was deserted by four soldiers, who carried off the
journals of Say and Lieutenant Swift with a number of other valuable effects. Both parties
also suffered from want of provisions in the sandy deserts, whose streams yield nothing but
brackish and muddy water. The expedition brought to Washington sixty skins of wild animals,
several thousands of insects, including five hundred new species, four or five hundred specimens
of hitherto unknown plants, numerous views of the scenery, and the materials for a map of the
districts traversed.

The command of another expedition was given in 1828 to Major Long, whose services were thoroughly
appreciated. Leaving Philadelphia in April, he embarked on the Ohio, and crossed the state
of the same name, and those of Indiana and Illinois. Having reached the Mississippi, he ascended
that river to the mouth of the St. Peter, formerly visited by Carver, and later by Baron La
Hontan. Long followed the St. Peter to its source, passing Crooked Lake and reaching Lake Winnipeg,
whence he explored the river of the same name, obtained a sight of the Lake of the Woods and
Rainy Lake, and arrived at the plateau which separates the Hudson's Bay valley from that of
the St. Lawrence. Lastly, he went to Lake Superior by way of Cold Water Lake and Dog River.

Although all these districts had been constantly traversed by Canadian pathfinders, trappers,
and hunters for many years previously, it was the first time an official expedition had visited
them with a view to the laying down of a map. The explorers were struck with the beauty of
the neighbourhood watered by the Winnipeg. That river, whose course is frequently broken by
picturesque rapids and waterfalls, flows between two perpendicular granite walls crowned with
verdure. The beauty of the scenery, succeeding as it did to the monotony of the plains and
savannahs they had previously traversed, filled the explorers with admiration.

The exploration of the Mississippi, which had been neglected since Pike's expedition, was resumed
in 1820 by General Cass, Governor of Michigan. Leaving Detroit at the end of May with twenty
men trained to the work of pathfinders, he reached the Upper Mississippi, after visiting Lakes
Huron, Superior, and Sandy. His exhausted escort halted to rest whilst he continued the examination
of the river in a canoe. For 150 miles the course of the Mississippi is rapid and uninterrupted,
but beyond that distance begins a series of rapids extending over twelve miles to the Peckgama
Falls.

Above this cataract the stream, now far less rapid, winds through vast savannahs to Leech Lake.
Having reached Lake Winnipeg, Cass arrived on the 21st July at a new lake, to which he gave
his own name, but he did not care to push on further with his small party of men and inadequate
supply of provisions and ammunition.

The source of the Mississippi had been approached, but not reached. The general opinion was
that the river took its rise in a small sheet of water known as Deer Lake, sixty miles from
Cass Lake. Not until 1832, however, when General Cass was Secretary of State for war, was this
important problem solved.

The command of an expedition was then given to a traveller named Schoolcraft, who had in the
previous year explored the Chippeway country, north-west of Lake Superior. His party consisted
of six soldiers, an officer qualified to conduct hydrographic surveys, a surgeon, a geologist,
an interpreter, and a missionary.

Schoolcraft left St. Marie on the 7th June, 1832, visited the tribes living about Lake Superior,
and was soon on the St. Louis river. He was then 150 miles from the Mississippi, and was told
that it would take him no less than ten days to reach the great river, on account of the rapids
and shallows. On the 3rd July, the expedition reached the factory of a trader named Aitkin,
on the banks of the river, and there celebrated on the following day the anniversary of the
independence of the United States.

Two days later Schoolcraft found himself opposite the Peckgama Falls, and encamped at Oak Point.
Here the river winds a great deal amongst savannahs, but guides led the party by paths which
greatly shortened the distance. Lake Winnipeg was then crossed, and on the 10th July, Schoolcraft
arrived at Lake Cass, the furthest point reached by his predecessors.

A party of Chippeway Indians led the explorers to their settlement on an island in the river.
The friendliness of the natives led Cass to leave part of his escort with them, and, accompanied
by Lieutenant Allen, the surgeon Houghton, a missionary, and several Indians, he started in
a canoe.

Lakes Tasodiac and Crooked were visited in turn. A little beyond the latter, the Mississippi
divides into two branches or forks. The guide took Schoolcraft up the eastern, and after crossing
Lakes Marquette, La Salle, and Kubbakanna, he came to the mouth of the Naiwa, the chief tributary
of this branch of the Mississippi. Finally, after passing the little lake called Usawa, the
expedition reached Lake Itasca, whence issues the Itascan, or western branch of the Mississippi.

Lake Itasca, or Deer Lake, as the French call it, is only seven or eight miles in extent, and
is surrounded by hills clothed with dark pine woods. According to Schoolcraft it is some 1500
feet above the sea level; but we must not attach too much importance to this estimate, as the
leader of the expedition had no instruments.

On their way back to Lake Cass, the party followed the western branch, identifying its chief
tributaries. Schoolcraft then studied the ways of the Indians frequenting these districts,
and made treaties with them.

To sum up, the aim of the government was achieved, and the Mississippi had been explored from
its mouth to its source. The expedition had collected a vast number of interesting details
on the manners, customs, history, and language of the people, as well as numerous new or little
known species of flora and fauna.

The people of the United States were not content with these official expeditions, and numbers
of trappers threw themselves into the new districts. Most of them being however absolutely
illiterate, they could not turn their discoveries to scientific account. But this was not the
case with James Pattie, who has published an account of his romantic adventures and perilous
trips in the district between New Mexico and New California.

On his way down the River Gila to its mouth, Pattie visited races then all but unknown, including
the Yotans, Eiotaws, Papawans, Mokees, Umeas, Mohawas, and Nabahoes, with whom but very little
intercourse had yet been held. On the banks of the Rio Eiotario he discovered ruins of ancient
monuments, stone walls, moats, and potteries, and in the neighbouring mountains he found copper,
lead, and silver mines.

We owe a curious travelling journal also to Doctor Willard, who, during a stay of three years
in Mexico, explored the Rio del Norte from its source to its mouth.

Lastly, in 1831 Captain Wyeth and his brother explored Oregon, and the neighbouring districts
of the Rocky Mountains.

After Humboldt's journey in Mexico, one explorer succeeded another in Central America. In 1787,
Bernasconi discovered the now famous ruins of Palenque. In 1822, Antonio del Rio gave a detailed
description of them, illustrated with drawings by Frederick Waldeck, the future explorer of
Palenque, that city of the dead.

Between 1805 and 1807, three journeys were successively taken in the province of Chiapa and
to Palenque by Captain William Dupaix and the draughtsman Castañeda, and the result of their
researches appeared in 1830 in the form of a magnificent work, with illustrations by Augustine
Aglio, executed at the expense of Lord Kingsborough.

Lastly, Waldeck spent the years 1832 and 1833 at Palenque, searching the ruins, making plans,
sections, and elevations of the monuments, trying to decipher the hitherto unexplained hieroglyphics
with which they are covered, and collecting a vast amount of quite new information alike on
the natural history of the country and the manners and customs of the inhabitants.

We must also name Don Juan Galindo, a Spanish colonel, who explored Palenque, Utatlan, Copan,
and other cities buried in the heart of tropical forests.

After the long stay made by Humboldt in equinoctial America, the impulse his explorations would
doubtless otherwise have given to geographical science was strangely checked by the struggle
of the Spanish colonies with the mother country. As soon, however, as the native governments
attained to at least a semblance of stability, intrepid explorers rushed to examine this world,
so new in the truest sense, for the jealousy of the Spanish had hitherto kept it closed to
the investigations of scientific men.

Many naturalists and engineers now travelled or settled in South America. Soon indeed, that
is in 1817-1820, the Austrian and Bavarian Governments sent out a scientific expedition, to
the command of which they appointed Doctors Spix and Martins, who collected a great deal of
information on the botany, ethnography, and geography of these hitherto little known districts--Martins
publishing, at the expense of the Austrian and Bavarian governments, a most important work
on the flora of the country, which may be looked upon as a model of its kind.

At the same time the editors of special publications, such as Malte Brun's Annales des Voyages
and the Bulletin de la Société de Géographie, cordially accepted and published all the communications
addressed to them, including many on Brazil and the province of Minas Geraës.

About this period too a Prussian Major-General, the Prince of Wied-Neuwied, who had been at
leisure since the peace of 1815, devoted himself to the study of natural science, geography,
and history, undertaking moreover, in company with the naturalists Freirciss and Sellow, an
exploring expedition in the interior of Brazil, having special reference to its flora and fauna.

