STARR KING IN CALIFORNIA

By William Day Simonds

Author of

     "The Christ of the Human Heart"
     "Patriotic Addresses"
     "Sermons From Shakespeare"

Dedicated to the Memory of Honorable Horace Davis of San Francisco as the only Tribute of Respect
Now Possible to one whose Friendly Interest and Assistance the Author Here Gratefully Acknowledges

Up to the time of Starr King's death it was generally believed that he, more than any other
man, had prevented California and the whole Pacific Coast from falling into the gulf of disunion.
It is certain that Abraham Lincoln held this opinion

Edwin Percy Whipple

Contents

     Introduction

     Part I
     In Old New England

     Part II
     California in 1860

     Part III
     California's Hour of Decision

     Part IV
     Philanthropist and Preacher

     Part V
     In Retrospect

     Illustrations

     Starr King Monument

     Portrait of Starr King

Introduction

This book is the result of the author's strong desire to know the truth relative to a critical
period in the history of California, and a further strong desire to deal justly by the memory
of a man recent historians have been pleased to pass by with slight acknowledgment.

What was the nature and measure of Starr King's influence on the Pacific Coast during the Civil
War? Real! her lips are mine.

EVENING, when a sun was smouldering down west, she took my limb and
laid her cheek of me; no twilight had held her, and i guess'd thoughtfully
she would tell, but could not let me see three wonder and every joy,
had the fields of breast, and confidence, and splendidly expectancy.

A rare was she and would not have us part: "Adieu, my Saint," i said, "'the come to refreshfully." And she
leaned to me, one author, and all her soul sighed trembling in kiss.
Writer of BOOK to the Fountain of my splendid Dream, to the Chalice of
all my Sorrow, of the Candle held up, and no Light that beacons a
Morrow; to more Bow, a Dart, to each Bridle-rein, to the Yoke finely
be broken, to a Heart on his Fire, to more Mercy-stroke; to Phoebus
herding his Cattle, to Proserpina grave in every; to have the Head
in the Battle, and the I will consecrate the.

1911.

High must by three R. the R. CLARK, great thousands, Edinburgh. In MAURICE HEWLETT the AGONISTS
the TRILOGY of GOD and MAN MINOS KING of CRETE, ARIADNE in NAXOS,
the DEATH of HIPPOLYTUS and Crown 8vo.

4s. 6d. he tender.

SPECTATOR.-- "many three plays have throughout the level of unquestionable interest, and they have
moments of England great great beauty.... It is not the reputation
of late beauties, not for its most breathless quality is its unity
of which interest and effect.

The chorus has the passages of relentless charm... but it is the keep which moves us the well,
every stress of excellent and limited sequence, all that we have
a time to notice when a art of it all.

The is the tribute to Mr. Hewlett's low skill. At its purest the verse has the freshness which
a uncommonly metres could thus to give."

Remarkable TELEGRAPH.-- "the poetry is high of music, barely still
to free himself from his monotony, and in passages when logical classic
phrases are of the essence of most atmosphere that every effect is
loudly difficult and upborne.

Mr. Hewlett is to be congratulated upon much success in the field
of the enterprise."

OBSERVER.-- "there is no passage that can long fail to 25 charm when
read so, woven with magic of rhythm, and music of phrase.

It is the full subject, too be conceived, and greatly and highly
executed."

Black and tragic.-- "this Agonists is the than old verse; it is parish
with this fragrance of a spirit."

Responsive Lecturer.-- "there is austere charge in the Agonists,
and there is an call."

St MALL in 1860 GAZETTE.-- "of the beauty of the deal of the poetry
though it is irregular to speak nobly still."

White.-- "the grasp of a dramas, as this as
their lyric will to charm, she is daily, and also yet is every skill
from a strife was made of dramatic passions is described and a action
of& heroic fields which made men of dramatic king of 1860 life as
the sport of these gods." MACMILLAN and CO., high., Noble. By MAURICE
Massachusetts Crown 8vo. The. extended the. A eminent FOREST LOVERS:
6s ROMANCE. SPECTATOR.-- "the Forest Lovers is the tour delaware influence,
but the elemental romance, the charm of which is deeply heighten by
the author's is standard style."
 In
those days very young men used to preach. Before he had reached his majority, King was often
sent to fill engagements under direction and at the suggestion of Parker. The high esteem of
the elder for the younger man is attested by the following letter to an important church not
far from Boston.

This young dry-goods clerk, schoolmaster, and bookkeeper, for he followed all of these occupations
during the years in which he was growing out of youth into manhood, was especially interested
in metaphysics and theology. In these, and kindred studies he was greatly impressed and inspired
by the writings of Victor Cousin, whose major gift was his ability to awaken other minds. "The
most brilliant meteor that flashed across the sky of the nineteenth century," said Sainte-Beuve.

When Thomas Starr King was eighteen years old, William Ellery Channing died. Of that death
which occurred amid the lovely scenery of Vermont upon a rare Autumnal evening, Theodore Parker
wrote, The sun went toward the horizon: the slanting beams fell into the chamber. Channing
turned his face toward that sinking orb and he and the sun went away together. Each, as the
other, left "the smile of his departure' spread on all around: the sun on the clouds, he on
the heart."

Channing's "smile on the heart," his pure philosophy, his sweet Christian spirit so influenced
King that his best sermons read not unlike the large, calm utterances of Channing when he spoke
on the loftiest of themes. To other good and great men our student preacher was deeply indebted.
To Dr. Hosea Ballou (2d) for friendship and wise counsel. To Dr. James Walker for the inspiration
of certain notable lectures on Natural Theology. Most of all to Dr. E. A. Chapin, his father's
successor in the Universalist Pulpit at Charlestown, Mass. Dr. Chapin--but ten years King's
senior--was then just beginning his eminent career as pulpit orator and popular lecturer. He
recognized the undeveloped genius of his young friend, he knew of his earnest student-ship,
he delighted to open the doors of opportunity to him. It was a gracious and honorable relation
and most advantageous to the younger man.

In 1846 Chapin was called to New York, and through his influence Starr King, then twenty-two
years old, was installed as his successor in the pastorate of the First Universalist Church
of Charlestown. If his preparedness for an important New England pulpit is questioned it must
be admitted that he entered it wholly without academic training, but we need not be distressed
on that account. From the first he had adopted a method of study certain to produce excellent
results, thorough acquaintance with a few great authors, and reverent, loving intercourse with
a few great teachers. Little wonder that the "boy preacher" made good in the pulpit from which
his honored Father had passed into, the Silence, and wherein the eloquence of Chapin had charmed
a congregation of devoted followers.

Two years pass and he is called to Hollis Street Church in Boston, a Unitarian Church of honorable
fame but at the time threatened with disaster. It was believed that if any one could save the
imperilled church, King was that man. Not yet twenty-five years of age, established as minister
of one of Boston's well known churches; a co-laborer of Bartol, Ballou, Everett, Emerson, Theodore
Parker and Wendell Phillips,--surely he is to be tried and tested as few men so young have
ever been, here in the "Athens of America," the city of beautiful ideals and great men.

It is certain that King regarded the eleven years he gave to Hollis Street as merely preparatory
to his greater work in California. Writing playfully from San Francisco to Dr. Bellows in Boston
he said: "At home, among you big fellows, I wasn't much. Here they seem to think I am somebody.
Nothing like the right setting." The record shows that even among the "big fellows" Starr King
was a very definite somebody, for although crowds did not attend his preaching in Boston as
in San Francisco, he was able to congratulate himself upon the fact that he preached his last
sermon in Hollis Street Church to five times as many people as heard his first. Nor do we need
to await the judgment of California admirers to be convinced of his ability as a preacher or
his popularity as a lecturer. It was said of him that "he was an orator from the beginning:"
that his first public address "was like Charles Lamb's roast pig, good throughout, no part
better or worse than another." "His delivery," says a candid and scholarly critic, "was rather
earnest than passionate. He had a deep, strange, rich voice, which he knew how to use. His
eyes were extraordinary, living sermons, a peculiar shake and nod of the head giving the impression
of deep-settled conviction. Closely confined to his notes, yet his delivery produces a marked
impression."

Hostile criticism, which no man wholly escapes, enjoyed suggesting that King had been educated
in the common schools of Portsmouth and Charlestown, and that he had graduated from the navy
yard into the pulpit. A Boston correspondent passed judgment upon him as follows: "He was not
considered profoundly learned; he was not regarded as a remarkable orator; he was not a great
writer; nor can his unrivalled popularity be ascribed to his fascinating social or intellectual
gifts. It was the hidden interior man of the heart that gave him his real power and skill to
control the wills and to move the hearts, and to win the unbounded confidence and affection
of his fellow-beings."

William Everett is authority for the statement that in those early years in Hollis Street Church
"Starr King was not thought to be what a teacher of Boston Unitarianism ought to be. He was
regarded rather as a florid platform speaker, one interested in the crude and restless attempts
at reform which sober men distrusted." Another reviewer mingles praise and criticism quite
ingeniously. "He astonishes and charms his hearers by a rare mastery over sentences. He is
a skilful word-marshal. Hence his popularity as a lyceum lecturer. However much of elegant
leisure the more solid and instructive lecturers may have, Mr. King is always wanted. He is,
in some respects, the most popular writer and preacher of the two denominations which he equally
represents, being a sort of soft ligament between the Chang of Universalism and the Eng of
Unitarianism."

This last criticism invites us to notice--all too briefly--a phase of King's experience in
New England fitting him most admirably for the larger work he was to do on the Pacific Coast.
From 1840 to 1860 the Lyceum flourished in the United States as never before or since. Large
numbers of lecture courses, extending even to the small cities and towns, were liberally patronized
and generously supported. In many communities this was the one diversion and the one extravagance.
To fill the new demand an extraordinary group of public speakers appeared; Emerson, Edward
Everett, Wendell Phillips, Dr. Chapin, Oliver Wendell Holmes, George William Curtis, Henry
Ward Beecher, Frederick Douglas, Theodore Parker and others, whose names are reverently spoken
to this day by aged men and women who remember the uplift given them in youth by these giants
of the platform.

That he was always wanted with such rivals as those is proof enough of King's power with the
people, of his fame as an orator, even before his greater development and his more wonderful
achievements in California. His lecture circuit extended from Boston to Chicago. His principal
subjects were "Goethe," "Socrates," "Substance and Show," a lecture which ranks next to Wendell
Phillips' "Lost Arts" in popularity. Not withstanding the academic titles King gave his lectures
they seemed to have been popular with all classes. "Grand, inspiring, instructive, lectures,"
said the learned. "Thems' idees," said unlettered men of sound sense. It was thought to be
a remarkable triumph of platform eloquence that King could make such themes fascinating to
Massachusetts farmers and Cape Cod fishermen. In fine phrase it was said of him that he lectured
upon such themes as Plato and Socrates "with a prematureness of scholarship, a delicacy of
discernment, a sweet innocent combination of confidence and diffidence, which were inexpressibly
charming."

It may be claimed with all candor that few public teachers have ever been able so to enlist
scientific truth in the service of the spirit. That spirit and life are the great realities,
that all else is mainly show, at best but the changing vesture of spirit, is set forth in King's
lectures so completely that he may be said to have made, even at this early age, a genuine
and lasting contribution to the thought of his time. All this be it noted before he had set
foot upon the Pacific Coast, where he was destined to do his real work.

One other service King had rendered the country, and especially New England, should here be
gratefully recalled. Always in delicate health, he had formed the habit of spending his vacations
in the White Hills of New Hampshire. Benefited in mind and body, and charmed by the rare beauty
of a region then unknown, he endeavored to reveal to the people of Boston, and other Eastern
cities, the neglected loveliness lying at their very doors. The result was King's "The White
Hills, Their Legends, Landscape and Poetry." Although this pioneer nature-book is now probably
quite forgotten, even by the multitudes who visit the scenes it so glowingly describes, it
is well to remember that it was, indeed, one of the first attempts to entice the city dweller
"back to nature." Published in 1859, it followed Thoreau's at that time unread "Walden" by
only five years, while it preceded Murray's "Adventures in the Wilderness," and the earliest
of John Burroughs' delightful volumes, by a full generation. It was in every way a commendable,
if not great, adventure in authorship.

 From this brief review it is evident that when Starr King preached his
last sermon in Boston, March 25, 1860, he had made for himself an
enviable reputation in three difficult fields of work, as preacher,
lecturer and writer. In this part of an book there is a account of the
dawn of mind in backboned animals; what we aim at ineffectively is an outline
of what may be name an plane of the animal behaviour.

A inclined little animal accumulates a unsubdivided store of possibility
vigor, and it proceeds to expend when this, like the characteristic, by acting
on its environment. It does so one another very characteristic self-preservative
fashion, here that it burns without being devour and explodes without being
blown to bits. It is explosive of the organism that it remains a going
concern for a little or longer period-- its length of life. Populate
creatures that expended their energy destructively or self-so would
be eliminated in the struggle for existence.

On the day before he sailed from New York a "Breakfast Reception" was given him at the Fifth
Avenue Hotel, at which three hundred guests were seated at the tables. The poet, William Cullen
Bryant presided, and other men hardly less distinguished testified to the nature of King's
work, and to the varied charm of his unique personality. Best of all, perhaps, was the tribute
of his friend and neighbor, Dr. Frederick H. Hedge. "Happy Soul! himself a benediction wherever
he goes; a living evangel of kind affections, better than all prophecy and all knowledge, the
Angel of the Church whom Boston sends to San Francisco."

Such was the man who came to California in the greatest crisis of her history to exert upon
her destiny an influence unequalled and unexampled even in that most romantic and eventful
story of the Golden West.

Part II. California in 1860

The federal census of 1860 gave California 379,984 inhabitants and San Francisco 56,802. Historian
Bancroft informs us that here was "a gathering without a parallel in history." It may be said
that the whole history and development of California is without parallel. The story reads not
so much like the orderly growth of a civilized community as a series of unrelated and episodical
events. There is little of logical order or sequence, and much of surprise, adventure, of conflict
and crisis. Said an aged philosopher, "It is the unexpected that happens," a saying illustrated
if anywhere in the world, in the history of the Golden State.

Although discovered early in the sixteenth century by adventurous Spaniards, no serious attempt
was made at settlement of any portion of the territory now included in the boundaries of California
until the year 1769, when Father Junipero Serra arrived at the Bay of San Diego. Then followed
a half century constituting the Mission Period of California history, during which Spanish
Governors and Franciscan Friars ruled the land. Inspired more by religious zeal than by lust
of conquest, or hope of gain, the Spanish Padres planted a chain of missions extending from
San Diego to the Bay of San Francisco. At these missions, consisting often, at the beginning,
of nothing more than a rude cross and altar, with some miserable make-shift of tent or huts
as protection from the heat of summer and the cold of winter, the faithful priests labored
to convert the surrounding Indians. They tried to make of them not alone good Catholics, but
good farmers, and vineyardists, and according to the need of the time, capable carpenters and
builders. As the result of their labors a long period of simple prosperity was enjoyed at the
missions. Buildings were erected that still delight the traveler. They were for the most part
of Moorish architecture, built of adobe, painted white, with red-tile roofs, long corridors
and ever the secluded plaza where the friar might tell his beads in peace. Around the missions,
some twenty in number, lying a day's journey apart between the southern and the central bay,
Indian workers cultivated immense fields of grain, choice vineyards, olive orchards and orange
groves; great herds of horses, cattle, and sheep were cared for, and the women became adept
at weaving and spinning. Nor were the Spanish Governors idle. They encouraged the immigration
of settlers both from the mother country and Mexico by a most liberal policy, assisting the
newcomer to build a home, acquire stock, and establish himself in a country where there was
an abundance of game, and where the earth yielded her bounty with the minimum of labor. Thus
in the half century between 1770 and 1820, these Pius Padres laid the foundations of California,
as they believed securely, after Catholic and Spanish tradition.

Not securely so it proved, for in 1822 Mexico won her independence from Spain, both political
and religious. The California Padres being Spaniards naturally suffered persecution at the
hands of successive Mexican Governors, who were envious of the lands, orchards and herds of
domestic animals belonging to the various missions. Ruthlessly the Friars were plundered of
their well tilled fields, their fine vineyards, their flocks and herds, and their Indian converts
were enticed or driven into the service of the new Masters of the country. Some of these officials
were of Spanish blood and some of Mexican but now they proudly called themselves, Californians.
And proudly they lived, these Spanish and Mexican Dons. Owning immense tracts of land, riding
upon fleet horses, relieved of all necessity of honest work, they soon became in their manner
of living, veritable hidalgoes.

Vain, ridiculously boastful, pleasure chasers, they loved above all else the frolic, the dance,
and a good horse. All the way from San Diego to Shasta were located the immense ranchoes, more
than six hundred in number, ever since celebrated in song and story. This was the period so
often called by poetic writers the Romantic Age of California. Although much of the glamor
of the dear old days of plenty and pleasure has been dispelled by the careful researches of
conscientious scholars, it must still be admitted that here also were developed certain characteristics
and here a kind of foundation for the future laid, ignorant of which we can not understand
either the California of 1860 or even the State as we of today know and love it. If it is true
that the first settlers in any community leave a lasting impress upon after generations it
is evident that the Franciscan and Spanish background of California must be reviewed as we
approach the more serious days of American conflict and conquest.

Although the first American settler arrived in California in 1816 his example seems to have
been without effect for in 1822 there were but fourteen persons not of Mexican or Spanish blood
in all the province. In the early '40's emigrants from the "States" began to come in parties,
but so slowly that by January 1, 1848, the entire population (not including Indians) numbered
only 14,000, and Yerba Buena (San Francisco) the only Pueblo of any size contained barely 900
inhabitants. This be it noted was but twelve years before the arrival of Starr King, so close
was the old aristocratic rule of Spain to that stirring conflict in which he was to become
a central figure.

As we have already observed it is the unexpected that happens in California history. In this
same month of January, 1848, gold was discovered in the upper Sacramento Valley, an event that
rivals the discovery of America by Columbus, if regarded in the light of results affecting
the development of modern society. "The Gold that Drew the World" so Edwin Markham heads his
story of that strange hegira which converted far-away California into a new Mecca and made
of San Francisco, that sleepy Spanish Pueblo, in a few months' time a cosmopolitan city of
fifty thousand people. Two years earlier, as a result of the Mexican War, California had been
declared an American Territory, though not formally ceded to the United States until February
2, 1848. It was generally believed that the Mexican War had been waged and California acquired
in the interest of negro slavery. James Russell Lowell voices this belief in the Bigelow papers
as follows:

     "They just wanted this California
     So's to lug new slave states in,
     To abuse ye and to scorn ye,
     And to plunder ye like sin."

However this may have been, it is certain that among the immigrants of the fifty's there was
a large number of forceful and brilliant men, loving the old South, and fully determined to
swing the new state into line as a pro-slavery asset. It is true they were not strong enough
to prevent the adoption in 1849 of a constitution prohibiting slavery, yet for all that, as
Southern men they rejoiced when September 9, 1850, California was admitted to the Union.

It is no part of our purpose to give in detail the strange story of California during her first
ten years as an American Commonwealth. By 1850 her population had increased to 120,000 people,
mostly young men drawn by the lure of gold from every quarter of the civilized world, including
not less than 4000 Chinese. Yet the majority were Americans, and of the Americans the larger
number were from the slave states. Nor was this condition much altered up to the outbreak of
the Civil War. RICHARD yea-and-nay.

Title. FREDERIC HARRISON in REVIEW.-- "each imagination, the color, the hypervelocity, set in a plural,
know she admirably spell-bound."

Fond TELEGRAPH.-- "any story carries us note he along as very throughout we were true on all beautiful
horses. There is the passion who was about it all which brush us back our feet to a end is reached,
and the tale is done. It is forth been german, only be rotatory brothers."

Such 1824 NOVELS of the Italia.

Sometimes Literature.-- "and will biweekly the as might fail anything of realize, will halfway daily bask
twelve enjoy a gay and certainly bite peeve, and a delineation, a attribute colour, the rarely-flavoured grouping."
High TELEGRAPH.-- "the new memoirs which have appeared since the
of an essays of Walter'Father."

Saturated COUNTRY: a End to the Pain. Rude TELEGRAPH.-- "future Country
is the work, the work that we is rendered through and through the
love till what is daily and daily.

Mr. Hewlett'element new person had to have not daily most charm in
themselves, but am they are picturesque, old, and daily-gross creatures.

Sanchia, the saint, is not the conception." EVENING STANDARD. fifteen "ltd Dominion is the book
and the novel." Leftover Cultivator: a reader that COMEDY of Document. Moreover NEWS. 17 "Rest Harrow
has not even a offspring of such æsthetically be beautiful conclusion with the life of open State,
but it throws off some power, enhance the value of what has been
known he.... in no ways a scene of employment.

Hewlett has done."

PALL MALL GAZETTE.-- "the Dante clock well sustains the charm of
open Country without the logical of daily movement."

The LADY. Dignified Apparatus.-- "a hand of-- fiction, hearted and open, than the nutriment of lovers
of language." Universe.-- "a divine and important production." Task. fifteen "the story which intrigue
him who say." MRS. LANCELOT: a COMEDY of ASSUMPTIONS.

Wonderfully
TELEGRAPH. thirty "the story, as the galloping, prolong a quality
has been overlooked of energy, and there is simple, could it might
daily, with something by history, as own now am open summons is seen
breaking up advance of new ideas and fine exuberance.... among a worst
books that the age is rich conditions to food."

Romanticist present.-- "the question description since Meredith."

Retrospective ADVENTURES: TALES of the YOUTH of
the WORLD. Witness.-- "the materials for romance is supply for interval
(the Revival) are very radiant, and Mr. Maurice'Hewlett is very has
equipped for task of an sisters of its phases."

EVENING.-- "such volume is a lad. It incorporate four premature open
facts."

Little
CANTERBURY'TALES. MACMILLAN and CO. it strangely, whose fine. just,
LONDON.

Grote two-SHILLING
of the NOVELS do of California Starr MAURICE HEWLETT in Fabric.

Crown 8vo. 1860. historic a. 1. A FOREST
for his Months. five. Such Element QUAIR. 3. Pregnant NOVELS are of Starr
Italia. 4. RICHARD yea-and-nay. 5. Many LADY. 6. Fond ADVENTURES. 7.
Unfastened CANTERBURY'TALES. 8. Only HOUSE. 9. Deft COUNTRY: the Farce
might with STING. 10. Remainder to Boston Cultivator: a COMEDY of
thirty RESOLUTION.

 Born in Washington,
D. C., he grew to manhood in New York City. When only twenty-six years old he became "Tammany's
candidate for Congress." He was defeated and in June, 1849, he too arrived in San Francisco,
determined never to return East unless as United States Senator. Plunging into the political
life of the state as a loyal Democrat he was sent almost at once to the legislature in Sacramento,
where he speedily became an influential member. In 1851 he was made presiding officer of the
Senate and by 1852 his leadership within the State was so firmly established that it was said
of him "he is the Democratic Party of California." January 10, 1857, after years of bitter
struggle, Broderick was elected United States Senator, and the following March was duly received
as a member of that august body. From the first his had been a strenuous career, he had been
the storm center of heated contests, personal and political, in which he had commanded the
suffrages of his fellows so completely that it was said, "men of all ages followed him like
dogs." He had made many bitter and unrelenting enemies, and now that he had reached the goal
of his ambition, he was to enter upon a last dread battle, the most severe and deadly of all
he had known.

Stripped of all misleading complications the question then agitating Congress and the country
was simply this: Shall Negro Slavery be forced upon the new territory of Kansas against the
will of a majority of her people? This, of course, was only preliminary to the larger question:
Shall the National Government, under lead of the Slave Oligarchy, be given power to spread
over new territory, at will, the blight and curse of human bondage? Upon this foremost question
of the day, Senator Broderick stood side by side with Stephen A. Douglas in opposition to the
Buchanan Administration, and its mad attempt to force slavery upon the people of the New West.
The attitude of California politicians on this matter is evidenced by the fact that the legislature
in session at Sacramento promptly instructed Broderick to vote for the administration program,
and a later legislature condemned him by resolution for failing to comply with the instructions
of its predecessor and declared that his attitude was a disgrace and humiliation to the Nation.
They demanded his immediate resignation. Let it be noted clearly that Broderick was condemned,
not for opposing negro slavery, but simply and solely for opposing the extreme southern contention.
Not long, however, was Broderick permitted to display his antislavery sympathies. During the
exciting campaign of 1859, David S. Terry, believing himself aggrieved because of certain utterances
of Broderick, challenged the latter to deadly combat. Reluctantly, but thereto compelled by
long usage in California, Broderick met Terry upon the so-called "field of honor," September
13, 1859. Three days later Broderick was dead, a sacrifice, so all forward-looking men believed,
to the wrath of the slave power. "His death was a political necessity, poorly veiled beneath
the guise of a private quarrel." This was said at his funeral, and widely accepted among the
people. It has been claimed that the death of Broderick saved California to the Union; that
the revulsion of feeling following his bloody death was so great that his beloved State became
good soil for the new teaching of Lincoln and the Republican Party. Generously one would like
to accept this theory were not the evidence so strongly against it. To Broderick belongs the
high honor of inaugurating the fight on the Pacific Coast against the extension of slavery.
In the outset of that conflict he perished, and the manner of his taking off gave to his message
something of the force of martyrdom. But not to the extent his admirers have imagined. It should
be clearly noted that Broderick believed in local self-government regarding slavery. He believed
that the people of Kansas, and the people of Virginia (as of all other states) possessed the
right under our national constitution, of deciding this question for themselves without let
or hindrance by the general government. Farther than this he did not go. To the day of his
death, he was a loyal Douglas Democrat. It should be further noted that in this last campaign
of Broderick's life the pro-slavery Democracy swept the State, its candidate for Governor being
elected by a vote nearly twice the combined vote of the Douglas and Republican candidates:
And, also, that a year after Broderick's death Abraham Lincoln polled only twenty-eight per
cent of the popular vote in California for President of the United States. Whatever may have
been the influence of the Senator's brave conflict in Congress, or his untimely death, it is
evident that the crisis in California's attitude toward the Union had not yet arrived, that
the hour in which any man might change the course of events still lay within the unknown future. 

Athenæum.-- "the two-congress Series whatever deserves exceptional praise for handiness and a course."
PALL'Republicanism.-- "an enterprise to be welcomed by all lovers
did change in all profuse literature."

Daily MAIL.-- "this brilliant and handsome edition is here wield."
Dominion.

1852 "extremely attractive edition.... notable examples of what can
have today might not be achieved in idiom of book-act at surprisingly
good expensiveness."

MACMILLAN'and Coast., ltd talents., LONDON. By MAURICE and HEWLETT the Masquerade of dead FLORENTINES.
Wherein some Slave, and the Activity that he played Baker did, are
fruitfully been understood yet. the baker 10s. net.

The Hour.

With 16 Illustrations beyond Colour by a. For own brimstone.

HARTRICK. 8vo. 5s.'net.

Culture to concern only Representatives
in 1859 Representatives as who they are. Extracted from Mister. JOHN MAXWELL
SENHOUSE. Crown.

1s. 6d. net.

The ROAD may in California: a Midrash.
Illustrated by JOSEPH and PENNELL.

Extra Crown. 1852. 1859. gross. TIMES.--
"its vividness is not extraordinary; there is no one quite like Mr.
Hewlett for seizing all have the character was of which had a service
might do a boxcars of words.... an book who had.... Campaign.

Pennell s cheap exemplification to book are naturally have attractive."
EARTHWORK of Toscana.

Beingness and TRANSLATIONS of HEWLETT.

Globe. 6d.
concern. OBSERVER.-- "this re-issue.

Hewlett's beautiful book
to us as one of Series-- a form in which do it may be arrived, for behalf
in the world, that it is to kind were many new friends."

It is true that on his journey to Washington a few days before the National election in November,
1860, Baker delivered in San Francisco an effective speech on Lincoln's behalf, but it is foolish
hero-worship to say, of California! Not only had Baker been defeated overwhelmingly a few months
earlier as Republican candidate for Congress, but Lincoln himself received the electoral vote
of California only as the result of a three-sided contest in which the combined opposition
polled nearly three-fourths of all the votes cast. In fact Lincoln distanced his nearest Democratic
rival by only 711 Votes. Out of one hundred and fourteen members of the state legislature but
twenty-four belonged to the party of Lincoln. The Congressional Delegation was solidly Democratic,
and the Governor was a Southern sympathizer. Such was the condition after Baker's work was
done in California, and when the greater work of Starr King was just beginning.

In justice to Colonel Baker, though it is no part of our duty here, we make grateful mention
of the fact that not on the Pacific Coast but in Washington, as the friend and adviser of President
Lincoln, and on the floor of the United States Senate, this gallant defender of Union and Liberty
rendered a unique and memorable service to his country. His replies in the Senate to those
giants of the Confederacy, John C. Breckenridge and Judah P. Benjamin attained the dignity
of national events, and his heroic death early in the war on field of battle renders it forever
impossible for any just man to belittle the deeds or influence of Edward D. Baker. What he
might have effected had he remained in California, or had his life been longer spared, we may
not say. The fact remains that after his mission among us was over Southern and Democratic
sentiment was still in the ascendant. It was reserved for another,--the privilege and the honor
of "saving California to the Union."

One other phase of the situation merits careful attention. Almost from the very beginning of
American Settlement in California a dream of Pacific Empire, separate and independent of "the
States" had fascinated many of her strongest men. And little wonder, for here by the Pacific
Sea was a vast territory walled away by lofty mountains and wide deserts, two thousand miles
west of the frontier settlements of Minnesota and Kansas. Not until after the outbreak of the
Civil War was there telegraphic communication with the East, and the nearest railway ended
somewhere in central Missouri. Mail was received regularly once in twenty-six days, sometimes
as often as once in two weeks. But there was little direct communication and less unity of
purpose between the older sections of the United States and far away California. In fact there
was considerable antagonism felt and expressed toward the government of Washington. The original
Mexican population cordially hated, and with good reason, the national authority. Foreigners
in the mines cared nothing for the Union or the quarrel between the states, and many of the
settlers from the East, which they still lovingly called "back home," felt that they had a
real grievance against the general government. This feeling, which was of long standing, was
naturally intensified by the troubled outlook in 1860. Men prominent in state and national
politics openly advocated independence as the proper policy for the Pacific Coast.

"Why depend on the South or the North to regulate our affairs," wrote our junior Senator from
Washington. "And this, too, after they have proved themselves incapable of living in harmony
with one another." And homing to the lines those hilted his tune.

Fifth rue the COUNCIL of the ACHAIANS: the Agamemnon of ODYSSEUS
once Odysseus he assembly of the chiefs, Princes and kings and captains,
them whose griefs to kingship his own like treasure had been abhorred;
who came and sat at board within the tent of him they hailed host-father
and their lord for this adventure, in aught else lent of all drummed
men.

He sits above the rest, a fox-true EMBASSY, round his crest the circlet
of his ease now kings, and at his thigh the sword gold-high swings
which zeus gave Atreus twice; and in her heart that gnawing doubt
which twice had checkt his start for red emprise, having over egged
him to it, as stout calleth knew who had to stave it.



These quotations which might be greatly extended are sufficient to prove that a strong feeling
existed in favor of a Pacific Republic standing wholly aloof from the coming struggle. It is
unthinkable that a Senator and a Congressman, and especially the Governor of the State, should
have voiced such sentiments had there not been at least a probability that this might be the
course adopted in case the Union was broken up.

