"Hallamshire, which is supposed by antiquarians to include the parish of Sheffield, forms a
district or liberty, the importance of which may be traced back to even British times; but
Sheffield makes its first appearance as a town some time after the Conquest.  In the Domesday
Book the manor of Sheffield appears as the land of Roger de Busk, the greater part held by
him of the Countess Judith, widow of Waltheof the Saxon.  In the early part of the reign of
Henry I. it is found in the possession of the De Levetot family, and the site of their baronial
residence.  They founded an hospital, called St. Leonard's (suppressed in the reign of Henry
VIII.), upon an eminence still called Spital Hill, established a corn mill, and erected a bridge
there, still called the Lady's Bridge, from the chapel of the Blessed Lady of the Bridge, which
had previously stood near the spot; and their exertions and protection fixed here the nucleus
of a town.  The male line of the Levetots became extinct by the death of William de Levetot,
leaving an infant daughter, Maud, the ward of Henry II.  His successor, Richard, gave her in
marriage to Gerard de Furnival, a young Norman knight, who by that alliance acquired the lordship
of Sheffield.  There is a tradition that King John, when in arms against his barons, visited
Gerard de Furnival (who espoused his cause), and remained for some time at his Castle of Sheffield.

"On the 12th of November, 1296, Edward I. granted to Lord Furnival a charter to hold a market
in Sheffield on Tuesday in every week, and a fair every year about the period of Trinity Sunday.
This fair is still held on Tuesday and Wednesday after Trinity Sunday, and another on the 28th
of November.  The same Lord Furnival granted a charter to the town, the provisions of which
were of great liberality and importance at that period, viz., that a fixed annual payment should
be substituted for the base, uncertain services by which they had previously held their lands
and tenements, that Courts Baron should be held every three weeks for the administration of
justice, and that the inhabitants of Sheffield should be free from the exaction of toll throughout
the entire district of Hallamshire, whether they were vendors or purchasers."

About this time Sheffield began to be famous for the manufacture of falchion heads, arrows,
files, and whittles.  Chaucer tells us of the miller that

   "A Sheffield thwytle bare he in his hose,
   Round was his face, and camysed was his nose."

The ample water-power, the supply of iron ore close at hand, and in after times, when its value
for smelting was discovered, the fields of coal--all helped Sheffield.

"Another only daughter, and another Maud, transferred by her marriage the lordship of Sheffield
to the more noble family of Talbot, Earl of Shrewsbury. William Lord Furnival died 12th April
1383, in his house in Holborn, where now stands Furnival's Inn, leaving an only daughter, who
married Sir Thomas Nevil, and he in 1406 died, leaving an only daughter, Maud, who married
John Talbot, Earl of Shrewsbury.  George, fourth Earl of Shrewsbury, built the lodge, called
Sheffield Manor, on an eminence a little distance from the town, and there he received Cardinal
Wolsey into his custody soon after his apprehension.  It was on his journey from Sheffield
Manor up to London, in order to attend his trial, that the Cardinal died at Leicester Abbey.
In the reign of Queen Elizabeth, Mary Queen of Scots, who had been committed to the custody
of George, sixth Earl of Shrewsbury, after being confined in Tutbury Castle, was removed in
1570 first to Sheffield Castle, and then to Sheffield Manor House, where she spent fourteen
years.  It was for the alleged intention of moving her hence that Thomas Duke of Norfolk, an
ancestor of the ducal family, still closely connected with Sheffield, suffered on the scaffold.
The grandson of this Duke of Norfolk, at whose trial the Earl of Shrewsbury presided as High
Steward, afterwards married the granddaughter of the Earl, and thereby became possessed of
this castle and estate."  And now, in 1851, another son of Norfolk is about to acquire a large
fortune by a Talbot.

During the reign of Elizabeth, the Duke of Alva, whose persecutions did more for extending
and improving the manufactures of this country than any amount of parchment protection, drove
over, in addition to the weavers of linen and fullers of cloth, artizans in iron and steel.
These, according to the wise rule of settling all one craft in one spot, were by the advice
of the Queen's Chamberlain, the Earl of Shrewsbury, settled on his own estate at Sheffield,
and the neighbourhood thenceforward became known for the manufacture of shears, sickles, knives
of every kind, and scissors.

About this time (1613), according to a survey, Sheffield contained about 2207 inhabitants,
of whom the most wealthy were "100 householders, which relieve the others, but are poore artificers,
not one of whom can keep a team on his own land, and above ten have grounds of their own, which
will keep a cow."  In 1624, an act of the incorporation of cutlers was passed, entituled "An
act for the good order and government of the makers of sickles, shears, scissors, and other
cutlery wares in Hallamshire and parts near adjoining."

Gilbert, seventh Earl of Shrewsbury, the last of the male line of the house of Talbot, who
inherited the Hallamshire estates, died on the 8th May 1616, leaving three daughters, co-heiresses.
The Lady Alethea Talbot, the youngest, married the Earl of Arundel, and the other two, dying
without issue in 1654, the whole estates descended to her grandson, Thomas Howard, Earl of
Arundel, who was restored to the title of Duke of Norfolk by Charles II., on his restoration,
and in that family a considerable property in Sheffield remains to this day--not without narrow
escapes of extinction.  Charles James Fox's friend, Jockey of Norfolk, was one of a family
which seems to afford every contrast of character in possession of the title.

In the great civil wars, Sheffield was the scene of more than one contest.  In 1644, on the
1st August, after the battle of Marston Moor, the castle was besieged by twelve thousand infantry
dispatched by the Earl of Manchester, compelled to surrender in a few days, and demolished
by order of parliament.

The manor was dismantled in 1706 by order of Thomas Duke of Norfolk, and the splendid park,
shaven of its great trees, was converted into building land, or accommodation land, part of
which is still known by the name of the Park.

During the eighteenth century the Sheffield trade was entirely confined to the home market,
and chiefly conducted by pack horses.  In 1751 a step toward extension was made by the completion
of works, which rendered the Don navigable up to Tinsley.  In 1819 the Sheffield and Tinsley
Canal was completed; and now Manchester, Leeds, Hull, and Liverpool, are all within a morning's
ride.

The art of silver-plating was invented at Sheffield by Thomas Bolsover, an ingenious mechanic,
in the latter half of the eighteenth century, and extensively applied by Mr. Joseph Hancock.
This trade has been seriously affected by the invention of electro-plating, which has transferred
much of the Sheffield trade to Birmingham.  The invention of Britannia metal speedily followed
that of plating.

In 1750 a direct trade to the continent was opened by Mr. Thomas Broadbent. The example was
soon followed.  The first stage-coach to London, started in 1760, and the first bank was opened
in 1762.

At present the population can be little short of 120,000.  The passing of the Reform Bill gave
to Sheffield two representatives.  The constituency is one of the most independent in the kingdom.
No "Man in the Moon" has any room for the exercise of his seductive faculties in Sheffield.

What is still more strange, until after the enactment of the Municipal Corporation Bill, Sheffield
had no local authorities.  The Petty Sessions business was discharged by county magistrates,
and the Master Cutler acted as a sort of master of the ceremonies on occasions of festivity,
without any real power.  That honorary office is still retained, although Sheffield has now
its aldermen and common councillors.

There is a "Royal Free Grammar School" founded in 1649, with an income from endowments of about
150 pounds a-year.  Free to thirty boys, as regards classics, subject to a charge of four guineas
per annum for instruction in the commercial department.  In 1850 there were eighty-one scholars.

Manufactures.--Sheffield, through every change, has deservedly retained its reputation for
the manufacture of razors, surgical instruments, and the highest class of cutlery, and a considerable
number of carpenters' and other steel tools.

In the coarser steel articles Birmingham does a considerable and increasing business, and Sheffield
workmen settling in Germany and in the United States have, from time to time, alarmed their
native town by the rivalry of their pupils; nevertheless, it may confidently be asserted, that
with its present advantages Sheffield can never lose her pre-eminence in cutlery if her sons
are only true to her and themselves.

The steel consumed in England is manufactured chiefly from iron imported from Sweden and Russia.
It has not been exactly ascertained whence arises the superiority of this iron for that purpose.
But all foreign iron converted into steel is composed of magnetic iron ore, smelted with charcoal.
This kind of ore is found in several countries, particularly in Spain.  In New Zealand, at
New Plymouth it is said to be found in great quantities; but from the two countries first mentioned
we obtain a supply of from 12,000 to 15,000 tons, of which about 9000 come from Sweden.  The
celebrated mines of Danemora produce the finest Swedish iron, and only a limited quantity is
allowed to be produced each year.  All the steel-iron used in England is imported into Hull.
Bar-steel is manufactured by heating the iron, divided into lumps, in pots, with layers of
charcoal, closely covered over with sand and clay, for several days.  By this means the iron
is carbonized and converted into what is commonly called blistered steel.  The heat is kept
up a longer or shorter time according to the hardness required.

Bar-steel, as it comes from the furnace, is divided and sorted, and the pieces free from flaws
and blisters are rolled out and converted into files, knives, coach-springs, razors, and common
implements, according to quality. It will be seen that there is a good deal of science and
judgment required to manufacture the best steel.

Sheer steel is made from bar-steel by repeated heating, hammering, and welding.

Cast steel, a very valuable invention, which has in a great degree superseded sheer steel for
many purposes, was first made in 1770 by Mr. Hunstman, at Allercliff, near Sheffield.  It is
made by subjecting bar-steel, of a certain degree of hardness, to an intense heat, for two
or three hours, in a crucible, and then casting it in ingots.

The Indian Wootz steel, of which such fine specimens were exhibited in the Exhibition, and
from which extraordinary sabres have been made, is cast steel, but, from the rudeness of the
process, rarely obtained perfect in any quantity.  Whenever we have the good fortune to intersect
India with railroads, steel-iron will be among the number of our enlarged imports.

The hard and elastic qualities of steel, known as "temper," are obtained by heating and then
cooling rapidly.  For this purpose baths of mercury and of boiling oil are used.  Some waters
are supposed to have peculiar virtues for tempering steel.

Case-hardening, a process much used for tools and plough-shares, consists in superficially
hardening cast iron or wrought iron by heating it in a charcoal crucible, and so converting
it into steel.

The successful operations for converting steel into various kinds of instruments, depends very
much upon manual skill.  The mechanics are united in trades' unions of great power, and have
exercised an influence over the manufacturers of the town of a very injurious nature.  At one
period, the razor-grinders and superior mechanics in several branches, were able to earn as
much as five and six, and even ten, pounds a-week.  At that period, when they had almost a
monopoly of the cutlery trade, on a very trifling excuse they would decide on taking a holiday,
or, as it is termed, "playing." Strikes for higher wages generally took place whenever any
good orders from foreign markets were known to have reached the town.  By these arbitrary proceedings,
arising from an ignorance of the common principles of political economy, which it is to be
hoped that the spread of education will remove, the Sheffield cutlery trade has been seriously
injured.  A few years ago large numbers of the cutlers emigrated.

Further depression was produced by the rivalry of Birmingham in the electrotype process, which
has, to a considerable degree, superseded the Sheffield plate and other trades, the latter
town being better placed for the foreign trade, while the workmen are less turbulent.

Beside cutlery and Sheffield plate, Britannia metal, and other similar ornamental and domestic
articles, a good deal of heavy ironware is made in Sheffield.  We may notice the fire-grates,
stoves, and fenders, of which all the best, wherever sold and whatever name and address they
bear, come from Sheffield.  In this branch of manufacture a great deal of artistic taste has
been introduced, and many scientific improvements for distributing and economizing heat.

The firm of Stuart and Smith, Roscoe Place, distinguished themselves at the Great Exhibition,
by producing a series of beautiful grates, at prices between two pounds and one hundred guineas.

There are some establishments for the manufactory of machinery.

Within the last year or two Sheffield has enjoyed a revival of prosperity, especially in the
article of edge tools.

The mechanics of Sheffield are a very remarkable and interesting set of people, with a more
distinct character than the mechanics of those towns which are recruited from various parts
of the country.  They are "Sheffielders."

A public meeting at Sheffield is a very remarkable scene.  The rules of public business are
perfectly understood and observed; unless in periods of very great excitement, the most unpopular
speaker will receive a fair hearing.  A fair hearing does not express it.  The silence of a
Sheffield audience, the manner in which they drink in every word of a stranger, carefully watching
for the least symptom of humbug, and unreduced by the most tempting claptrap, is something
quite awful.

A man with a good coat on his back must dismiss all attempts at compliments, all roundabout
phrases, and plunge into the middle of the business with the closest arguments he can muster,
to produce any effect on the Sheffield blades.  Although they look on all gentlemen with the
greatest distrust, and have a most comical fear of imaginary emissaries from Government wandering
to and fro to seduce them, they thoroughly understand and practise fair play. The sterling
qualities of these men inspire one with respect, and regret that they should be imposed upon
by such "blageurs" as Feargus O'Connor and his troop.  Perhaps they are wiser now.

The Sheffielders, by way of relaxation, are fond of gardening, cricket, dog fighting, and formerly
of hunting.  They are very skilful gardeners,--their celery is famous.  A few years ago, one
of the trades hired land to employ their unemployed members.  Many possess freehold cottages.

Cricket and similar amusements have been encouraged by the circumstance that, in summer droughts,
the water-power on which the grindstones depend often falls short, and then there is a fair
reason for turning out to play or to garden, as the case may be, according to taste.

Sheffield bulldogs used to be very famous, and there are still famous ones to be found; but
dog fighting, with drinking, is going out of fashion.

But, although other towns play at cricket, and love good gardening and good dogs, we presume
that the Sheffielders are the only set of mechanics in Europe who ever kept their own pack
of hounds.  Such was the case a few years ago, when we had the pleasure of seeing them; and,
if they are still in existence, they are worth going a hundred miles to see.  The hounds, which
were old English harriers, slow and deep-mouthed, were quartered at various cottages in the
suburbs.  On hunting mornings, when the men had a holiday, the huntsman, who was paid by a
general subscription, took his stand on a particular hill top and blew his horn.

In a few minutes, from all quarters the hounds began to canter up to him, and he blew and blew
again until a full complement, some ten or twelve couples, had arrived.

The subscribers came up in twos and threes on the hacks of the well known "Shanks," armed with
stout sticks; and then off they set, as gay and much more in earnest than many dozen who sport
pink and leathers outside on hundred guinea nags.

Music is a good deal cultivated among all classes in Sheffield.  There are two scientific associations,
but of no particular mark.  Sheffield has produced two poets of very different metal, James
Montgomery and Ebenezer Elliott, both genuine; and a sculptor, Chantrey, who was apprenticed
there to a wheelwright.

The railway communications of Sheffield were long imperfect,--they are now excellent.  The
clothing districts of Yorkshire are united by two lines.  The North Midland connects it with
Derbyshire, and affords a short road by Derby and through Leicestershire to London on one side,
and by Burton to Birmingham on the other.  The Lincolnshire line has shortened the distance
to Hull, whence the steel-iron comes, and fat cattle; the Manchester line carries away the
bars converted into cutlery, and all the plated ware and hardware, by Liverpool, to customers
in America, North or South.

We must not forget that there are coal-pits close to the town, of extensive workings, which
are extremely well suited for the visit of an amateur.  Even a courageous lady might, without
inconvenience, travel underground along the tramways in the trucks, if she did not mind the
jolting.

The miners are not at all like our Staffordshire friends, but are very decent fellows.  There
are a good many Wesleyan Methodists among them, and hymns may be heard sometimes resounding
along the vaulted galleries, and rising from behind the air-doors, where children sit all day
on duty,--dull work, but not hard or cold.

A well managed coal mine is a very fine sight.

DERBYSHIRE.

From either Sheffield or Manchester a most delightful journey is open through Derbyshire to
a good pedestrian, or to a party of friends travelling in a carriage with their own horses.
For the latter purpose an Irish outside car, fitted either with a pole or outrigger for a pair
of horses, is one of the best conveyances we know.  The front seat holds the driver; two ladies
and two gentlemen fill up the two sides.  The well contains ample space for the luggage of
sensible people; umbrellas and waterproof capes can be strapped on the intermediate cushion,
and then, if the horses are provided with military halters and nosebags, you are prepared for
every eventuality.  To other impedimenta it is not amiss to add a couple of light saddles,
so that, if necessary, some of the party may ride to any particular spot.

This mode of travelling is particularly well suited for Derbyshire, Wales, Devonshire, and
all counties where there are beautiful spots worth visiting to which there are no regular conveyances,
and which, indeed, are often only accidentally discovered.  By this mode of travelling you
are rendered perfectly independent of time and taverns, so long as you reach an inn in time
to go to bed; for you can carry all needful provant for both man and beast with you.

Derbyshire is in every respect one of the most beautiful counties in England, and deserves
a closer investigation than can be obtained from the outside of a coach, much less from the
windows of a flying train, whenever the promised railway line, which we propose to traverse,
shall be completed.

Derbyshire possesses two kinds of scenery totally distinct in character, but both remarkably
picturesque, several natural curiosities of a very striking character, two very pleasant bath
towns,--Buxton and Matlock; beside the antiquarian glories of Hardwicke and Haddon, and the
palatial magnificence of Chatsworth, with its porticoes, its fountains, its pleasure grounds,
its Victoria Regia, and the House of Glass that has been the means of making Joseph Paxton
famous all over the civilized world.

While the country round the Peak is wild, bare, and rugged, the line of valleys and dales on
which lies the road from Matlock to Burton and Manchester, presents the most charming series
of pictures of undulating woodland scenery, adorned by mansions and cottages, that it is possible
to imagine.  The high road continually runs along the steep side of valleys,--on one side are
thick coverts climbing the rocky hill-sides, all variegated with wild flowers, briars, and
brushwood; on the other side, sometimes on a level with the road, sometimes far below, a river
winds and foams and brawls along; if lost for a short distance, again coming in sight of the
road, enlivening and refreshing the scene.

In the main avenue of the Crystal Palace, Mr. Carrington exhibited a model which represented
with extraordinary accuracy all this country, and which gave a very exact picture of Derbyshire,
with all the undulations of its hills and rivers worked to a scale.  Those who have never been
in the county should endeavour to see it, as it will teach them that we have a Switzerland
in England of which they knew not.

One charm of this part of Derbyshire is the intermixture of cultivation and wild nature, or
woods so planted as to well emulate nature.  On bits of level space you meet a cottage neatly
built of stone, all covered with roses and woodbines, which flourish wonderfully on the loose
soil in the showery atmosphere.  The cottages of Derbyshire are so pretty that you are at first
inclined to imagine that they are for show,--mere fancy buildings.  But no; the cheapness of
good building stone, the suitability of the soil for flowering shrubs, and perhaps something
in the force of example, create cottage after cottage fit for the dwellings of Arcadian lovers.
And every now and then the landscape opens on a villa or mansion so placed that there is nothing
left for the landscape gardener to do.

The farm buildings, and corn mills, and silk mills, are equally picturesque: game abounds.
Early in the morning and in the evening you may often see the pheasants feeding close to the
roadside, and, in the middle of the day, the sudden sharp noise of a detonating ball will set
them crowing in the woods all around.

We cannot say that the streams now swarm with trout and grayling as they did when honest Isaac
Walton sung their praises in quaint poetical prose, although they still twine and foam along
their rocky beds all overhung with willows and tufted shrubs; but, where the waters are preserved,
there good sport is to be had.

The roadside inns are not bad.  The half-mining, half-farming people are quaint and amusing.
The caverns of the Peak and the lead mines, afford something strange and new.  Altogether we
can warmly commend a trip through Derbyshire, as one affording great variety of hill and dale,
wood and stream, barren moors, and rich cultivation, fine parks and mansions, and beautiful
hamlets, cottages, and roadside gardens, where English peasant life is to be seen under most
favourable aspects.

* * * * *

HARDWICKE.--Supposing that we proceed from Sheffield, we would take the railway to Chesterfield,
which is not a place of any interest.  Thence make our way to Hardwicke, on the road to Mansfield.

Hardwicke Hall is a good specimen of the style of domestic architecture in the time of Queen
Elizabeth, which has remained unaltered since that period. Mary Queen of Scots was imprisoned
here, and some remains of tapestry worked by her are exhibited, as well as furniture more ancient
than the house itself.  It belongs to the Duke of Devonshire.

From Hardwicke we proceed to Matlock, which may be reached by an unfinished railway, intended
to traverse the vales, and thence run into Manchester.

The village and baths are in the centre of a dale through which the river Derwent flows, along
between overhanging trees, except where, in some parts, its course lies through the narrow
gut of perpendicular rocks.  On either side rise hills, for the most part adorned with wood,
to the height of three hundred feet.

The waters, which are supplied to several small and one large swimming bath, have a temperature
of from 66 to 68 degrees of Fahrenheit.  They are not now much in fashion, therefore the village
has continued a village, and is extremely quiet or dull according to the tastes of the visitor.
At the same time, there are a number of delightful expeditions to be made in the neighbourhood,
on foot or horseback, and on donkeys,--hills to be ascended and caves to be explored.

By permission of Sir Richard Arkwright of Willersley Castle, close to Matlock and several other
river preserves, good fishing may be obtained.

From Matlock, the next halt should be at Bakewell, where there is an excellent inn, which is
a good encampment for visiting both Chatsworth and Haddon Hall.

Chatsworth is three miles from Bakewell.  The present building occupies the site of that which
was long occupied by Mary Queen of Scots during her captivity, and which was taken down to
make room for the present structure at the close of the seventeenth century.

The park is ten miles in circumference, and is intersected by the river Derwent, which flows
in front of the mansion.

This place has long been celebrated for its natural and artificial beauties, but within the
last few years the Duke of Devonshire has largely added to its attractions, by alterations
carried on at an immense expense, under the direction of Mr. Joseph Paxton, which, among other
things, include the largest greenhouse in the world--the house where the Victoria Regia was
first made to flower, and a fountain of extraordinary height and beauty.

These grounds, with the house, containing some fine pictures, are open to the visits of all
well-behaved persons.  Indeed, from the arrangements made for the convenience of visitors,
it would seem as if the Duke of Devonshire has as much pleasure in displaying, as visitors
can have in examining, his most beautiful domains, which is saying a great deal.

Haddon Hall, one of the most perfect specimens of a mansion of the fifteenth and sixteenth
centuries, is situated on the left bank of the Wye, at a short distance from Bakewell.  The
"interiors" of Mr. Joseph Nash have rendered the beauties of the architecture of Haddon Hall
well known, but it also enjoys the advantage of a very fine situation, backed by old trees.
It is the property of the Duke of Rutland, uninhabited, but perfectly preserved.  Good fishing
is to be obtained near Bakewell, through the landlord of the hotel.

BUXTON may be the next halt, the Leamington of Manchester, but although more picturesquely
situated, it has not enjoyed anything like the tide of prosperity which has flowed for the
Warwickshire watering place.  The thermal waters of Buxton have been celebrated from the time
of the Romans.

The town is situated in a deep basin, surrounded by bleak hills and barren moors, in strong
contrast to the verdant valley in which the village of Matlock lies.  The only entrance to
and exit from this basin is by a narrow ravine, through which the river Wye flows on its way
to join the Derwent toward Bakewell.

The highest mountains in Derbyshire are close at hand, one of which is one thousand feet above
the valley in which Buxton stands, and two thousand one hundred feet higher than the town of
Derby.  From this mountain four rivers rise, the Wye, the Dove, the Goyt, and the Dean.

Buxton consists of a new and old town.  In the old town is a hall, in which Mary Queen of Scots
lodged whilst visiting the Buxton waters for her health, as a prisoner under charge of the
Earl of Shrewsbury.  A Latin distich, a farewell to Buxton, scratched on the window of one
of the rooms, is attributed to the hand of that unhappy princess.

The new part of the town commences with the Crescent, which contains two houses, a library,
an assembly-room, a news-room, baths, and other buildings, and is one of the finest structures
of the kind in the kingdom.  The stables, on a magnificent scale, contain a covered ride, a
hundred and sixty feet long.  This immense pile was built by the late Duke of Devonshire in
1781, and cost 120,000 pounds.

The public baths are very numerous and elegant; and indeed every comfort and luxury is to be
obtained there by invalids and semi-invalids, except that perpetual atmosphere of amusement,
without form, or fuss, or much expense, which forms the great charm of German watering places.

We cannot understand why at the present moderate price of all kinds of provisions in England,
a tariff of prices, and a set of customs of expense are kept up, which send all persons of
moderate fortune to continental watering places, or compel them to depart at the end of a fortnight,
instead of staying a month.

Why do we English,--after dining at a table d'hote, all the way from Baden- Baden to Boulogne,
for something not exceeding half-a-crown a-head, without drinking wine, unless we like,--find
ourselves bound, the moment we set our foot in England, to have a private or stereotyped dinner
at five or six shillings a-head, and no amusement.  In London, for gentlemen only, there are
three or four public dinners at a moderate figure.  When will some of our bell-wethers of fashion,
to whom economy is of more consequence than even the middle classes, set the example at Leamington,
Tunbridge Wells, Buxton, and Cheltenham, of dining with their wives and daughters at the public
table?  How long are we to be slaves of salt soup, fried soles, and fiery sherry?

The decayed watering places, ruined by the competition of the continent, should try the experiment
of commercial prices, as an invitation to idlers and half-invalids to stay at home.

