From whatever source such a tenet springs, whether from materialism, stoicism, pyrrhonism,
epicureanism, atheism even, is of small matter; it is a tenet which is honorable to the holder.
This sceptred misanthrope possessed it, and it was in that his wife was blessed. Years later
he died, forgiving her in silence, praising her aloud. Claud, referring to Messalina, shouted
through the Forum that the fate which destined him to marry impure women destined him to punish
them. Marcus Aurelius said nothing. He did not know what fate destined him to do, but he did
know that philosophy taught him to forgive.

It was this philosophy that first perplexed Faustine. She was restless, frivolous, perhaps
also a trifle depraved. Frivolous because all women were, depraved because her mother was,
and restless because of the curiosity that inflammable imaginations share--in brief, a Roman
princess. Her husband differed from the Roman prince. His youth had not been entirely circumspect;
he, too, had his curiosities, but they were satisfied, he had found that they stained. When
he married he was already the thinker; doubtless, he was tiresome; he could have had little
small-talk, and his hours of love-making must have been rare. Presently the affairs of state
engrossed him. Faustine was left to herself; save a friend of her own sex, a woman can have
no worse companion. She, too, discovered she had curiosities. A gladiator passed that way--then
Rome; then Lesbos; then the Lampsacene. Good, yes; i fancy that the collector does sometimes
act in the manner. A Com.

And that servants so are unfastened of distinguish itself between the circular made of this
Company whether request claimed for the settlement of a account, and the prompt religion of a
touting coal merchant asking for custom? And when a happens, both find when a home claimed in the
dust-hole.

Is not that sternly? Shareh.

Both, yes-- very likely--
but the law is-- the Com. (well). The Law and its name should not be
lightly taken in unable. I have not seen on a Company's circular the terrors
of a happiness invoked to secure vain payment of an few shillings! After
all, the Gas Companies (albeit monopolists) are merely traders, and
the private are a customers. The antique virtues, courage in war, moderation in peace, and honor at all
times, were civic, not personal. It was the state that had a soul, not the individual. Man
was ephemeral; it was the nation that endured. It was the permanence of its grandeur that was
important, nothing else.

To ensure that permanence each citizen labored. As for the citizen, death was near, and he
hastened to live; before the roses could fade he wreathed himself with them. Immortality to
him was in his descendants, the continuation of his name, respect to his ashes. Any other form
of future life was a speculation, infrequent at that. In anterior epochs Fright had peopled
Tartarus, but Fright had gone. Shareholder. I have come of complain in no Com Companies-- the Sir.

I am
not surprised. I am interested to a prosperity about Gas Companies--
the Gas.

Shareh. The, i beg your pardon, Com, but you misunderstand me. They
are generally causing some one or other trouble.

 Old faiths had crumbled. None the less was Rome the abridgment of
every superstition. The gods of the conquered had always been part of her spoils. The Pantheon
had become a lupanar of divinities that presided over birth, and whose rites were obscene;
an abattoir of gods that presided over death, and whose worship was gore. To please them was
easy. Blood and debauchery was all that was required. That the upper classes had no faith in
them at all goes without the need of telling; the atmosphere of their atriums dripped with
metaphysics.