SATAN

By

LEWIS SPERRY CHAFER

1909

Contents

Foreword, by Dr. C. I. Scofield

Author's Introduction

   I. The Career of Satan
  II. The Ages
 III. The Course of This Age
  IV. This Age and the Satanic System
   V. The Satanic Host
  VI. Satan's Motive
 VII. Satan's Methods
VIII. The Man of Sin
  IX. The Fatal Omission
   X. Modern Devices
  XI. The Believer's Present Position
 XII. The Believer's Present Victory

Foreword.

If any word of mine shall add to the number of the readers of this book I shall be glad to
have written it; and I sincerely wish that all believers, and especially all ministers and
Christian workers, might in some way be led to read it.

The subject is vital to any right understanding of the age in which we live, and of the personal
conflict which we wage; for the existence, personality, and power of Satan are awful facts
and of immense present significance.

We walk in the midst of his snares, hear on every hand his doctrines proclaimed by men of blameless
lives "transformed as the ministers of righteousness," and are allured by the pleasure, place
and power of his perfectly organized world-system.

I know of no other book on Satan in which the dispensational aspects of the subject are so
clearly stated, nor any other so severely Biblical.

C. I. Scofield.

Introduction.

The world has been willing to comply with the wishes and projects of Satan to the extent of
ceasing to believe that he really exists; this unbelief being most advantageous to his present
undertakings. Yet the opinions of men have never changed the facts of revelation, and, according
to Scripture, Satan exists; still possessed with great power and influence over the affairs
of men--a power and influence to be increasingly dreaded as this present age advances.

The teachings of Scripture on this important subject are but little understood by Christians
and seem to be entirely outside the thought of the world. It is, therefore, to be expected
that any attempt to present this truth will seem, to many, mere folly and fiction.

The name Satan has by no means been lost. It has, however, been associated with a most unscriptural
fancy. Without reference to revelation, the world has imagined a grotesque being, fitted with
strange trappings, who has been made the central character in theatrical performances; and
by this relation to the unreality of the theatre, the real character of Satan has come to be
only one of the myths of a bygone age.

Scripture reveals a detailed description of the person and career of Satan; beginning with
his creation; his original condition; his fall, and on to his kingdom with all its developments,
and his final defeat and banishment. It presents a personage so mighty and so prominent in
the world to-day that the Christian heart would fail, were it not for faith in the One who
has triumphed over all principalities and powers.

This attempt to outline the Scripture teaching on this character will be undertaken under certain
general conditions:

First--The authority of the Scriptures of both the Old and the New Testaments will be accepted
without question.

Second--Evidence will be drawn from the Word of God alone, since no final light can be found
on this subject other than it has pleased God to reveal in the Bible.

Third--There will be no discussion as to the actual existence of Satan; this being both assumed
and taught from Genesis to Revelation.

These pages are prepared especially for believers; knowing that this body of truth will be
wholly unnoticed or rejected by the Satan-blinded world (2 Cor. 4:4).

There has also been a deep sense of the seriousness of the undertaking: both because Satan,
by his present direct power, would, if possible, hinder any larger understanding of his projects
and purposes; and because so great a warning has fallen from the lips of Christ against the
sin of ascribing to Satan the things which are really of God (Matt. 12:22-32). The work has,
therefore, been undertaken with some degree of reliance upon the keeping and guiding power
of the Spirit of God, and is presented with the prayer that believers may have a clearer understanding
of this important body of truth and be able to say with Paul, "We are not ignorant of his devices."
It is also desired that some clearer vision of this mighty foe may be had which will cause
the child of God to realize the overwhelming power of his adversary and be constrained to "be
strong in the Lord and in the power of his might;" that greater victory may be had in the realization
of the whole will of God.

Chapter I.

The Career of Satan

This chapter is a brief outline of the past, present and future of Satan, which is taken up
at this point both that the following chapters may be more easily studied and because of the
fact that those passages which deal most directly with his earliest condition are closely interwoven
with predictions of his future and final defeat.

Revelation in regard to Satan begins with that dateless period between the perfect creation
of the heavens and the earth (Gen. 1:1) and the desolating judgment which ended that period,
when the earth became waste and empty (Gen. 1:2; Isa. 24:1; Jer. 4:23-26). One passage, Ezek.
28:11-19, deals at length with Satan and his relation to that age. In this Scripture Satan
is evidently described under the title of "The King of Tyrus." Like the Messianic Psalms,--wherein
the Psalmist is apparently referring to himself, though statements are made and conditions
described that could only be connected with the Messiah, the Son of God,--so, here, that which
is addressed to "The King of Tyrus" is, by its character, seen to be a direct reference to
the person of Satan; for no similar person to whom this description could apply is revealed
in Scripture. In the previous as well as the following chapters the final judgment of Jehovah
is pronounced upon the enemies of His chosen people. Satan is distinctly numbered among these
enemies in I Chron. 21:1; and his record and judgment naturally appear in this list.

Every sentence of this extended passage is a distinct revelation and is worthy of long and
careful study. Only a passing reference can be made to it here.

This passage describes much of the early and latter career of Satan. Twice is his creation
referred to. In verse fifteen it is stated that he was created perfect, and in verse thirteen
that perfection is set forth in detail by the suggestive symbols of precious gems. He was also
"full of wisdom," "perfect in beauty," filling up the sum of perfection. In verse fourteen
he is called the "anointed cherub that covereth." By this the purpose of the Creator is revealed.
The general interpretation of this verse is that Satan was created as a guard or protector
to the throne of the Most High. This is reasonable. Like the golden cherubim, covering the
visible mercy seat in the Holy of Holies of the earthly tabernacle, he was created a guard
and covering cherub to the heavenly center of Glory. It is expressly stated that he was located
by the Most High upon the holy mountain of God, the mountain of God being a symbol of the center
of God's power, government, and eternal throne (Ps. 48:1; 68:15; Isa. 2:2). Over this exalted
throne Satan was set as a covering cherub. He is also said to have been in "Eden, the garden
of God," which is evidently another Eden than that in which Satan appeared as a serpent. It
is probably a reference to the primitive creation, and the whole passage suggests a position
of great authority for which he was created and anointed; a position from which he fell, drawing
with him a host of beings over whom he had governing influence and power.

Again, it is stated that Satan was perfect in all his ways from the day he was created. It
is important to notice both that he was created, and that he was created perfect. Since he
was created, he is not self-existent, and never can be free from his dependence upon the Creator.
He may vainly propose to become independent, and even be permitted for a time to act under
that delusion; but that would only delay the inevitable judgment that awaits him. He was created
perfect, or was a perfect fulfilment of the Creator's intention. Satan was a free moral agent;
capable of choosing evil, but not obliged to do so. That he chose evil must ever be his own
condemnation; for the Creator had surrounded him with sufficient motives to choose the good.

The crime of Satan is partly revealed in verse sixteen and this is followed by an exact description
of his final judgment as it is predicted in the book of Revelation.

The important teaching of this passage is of Satan's first position and power--a power and
wisdom sufficient to guard the throne of God from every possible enemy, and a glory and beauty
that would become the highest officer in the Court of Heaven. By this revelation his present
position and power may be estimated.

The revelation next in importance is that of his crime; this is clearly set forth in Isa. 14:12-20.
Before reading this passage it should be noticed that the prophet's vision of Satan, here recorded,
is from the time of his final judgment, and the prophet is looking backward over Satan's whole
career. Much that is still future is, therefore, referred to as though it were past.

Here Satan appears under a different title. When he is seen in the primal glory, as described
in Ezekiel 28:11-19, he bears the earthly title of "The King of Tyrus" and when fallen from
that sphere, he bears the heavenly title of "Lucifer, Son of the Morning." It is as though,
being out of harmony with the Creator by his sin, he is out of harmony with every sphere in
which he may appear. It would indicate a position near to the unsurpassed glory of "The Bright
and Morning Star," "The Sun of Righteousness" who shall yet arise with healing in His wings.

Satan is here again said to be fallen from heaven. Of this fall Jesus speaks in Luke 10:18,
"I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven."

The reference in both of these passages is not to Satan's moral degeneration but rather to
a great event when he was, because of his sin, driven from his place in glory and made to inhabit
the earth and air (Eph. 2:2; 6:12; I Pet. 5:8). Yet he was granted the privilege of access
to the presence of God (Job 1:6; Rev. 12:10).

Referring to these texts: In the first two chapters of the book of Job, Satan is seen appearing
in the midst of other heavenly beings, before the presence of Jehovah; and there seems to be
nothing unusual in the presence of Satan in this celestial company. To the question of Jehovah,
"Whence cometh thou?" he replies, "from going to and fro in the earth and from walking up and
down in it." From this revelation the important information is given that Satan, while inhabiting
the earth and air, is free to appear in the presence of God. His occupation of the earth and
air is also taught in Eph. 6:11, 12. (R.V.). Another injunction to believers is contained in
I Pet. 5:8, 9: "Be sober, be watchful: your adversary the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh
about, seeking whom he may devour: whom withstand steadfast in your faith."

These two latter passages, taken together, restate with greater emphasis the revelation in
regard to the present abode of Satan. That the earth and the air are his present abode must
be accepted on the testimony of Scripture: in spite of the almost universal impression that
he is now in hell.

In addition to this statement in regard to Satan's fall, the passage in Isaiah, which is under
consideration, reveals two aspects of his present activity. He is first seen seeking to establish
a throne for himself, and then as the promoter of confusion and terror in the Divine purpose
in the world. This is followed with another statement of the certainty of his final judgment
and banishment.

The crime of Satan is concisely stated in the fourteenth verse as being a purpose in his heart
to become like the Most High. His heart was lifted up because of his beauty; he who was created
and placed as the "Covering Cherub," with the high honor of guarding the throne of God, has
corrupted his wisdom by reason of his brightness; he has struck at the throne he was set to
protect. It was a purpose in his heart which would require the time of the ages to wholly destroy.
There could be but one Most High, and the purpose of Satan to become like him could, naturally,
be nothing less than an attempt to dethrone the Almighty.

The secret purpose in his heart reveals his method to be, not a violent attack upon the throne:
but, like Absalom's, to steal the hearts of the unfaithful in the kingdom, and, through subtlety,
to gain a government. He would thus become an object of worship, and attract attention from
other beings to himself. To accomplish this, a hindering attitude must be assumed toward the
purpose and projects of the Most High. No adequate appreciation can be formed of Satan's present
projects and devices, and the motive that prompts them, without a clear understanding of his
age-abiding attitude toward the Person of God.

There are two prominent events revealed in the history of Satan, falling within the period
of time when he proposed in his heart to become like the Most High, and his yet future banishment
and execution. The first of these was his meeting with and triumph over the first Adam; when
he wrested the scepter of authority from man, by securing man's loyal obedience to his own
suggestion and counsel. This earthly scepter Satan held by the full right of conquest, seemingly
without challenge from Jehovah, until the first advent of the Second Adam; this meeting of
the Second Adam, Christ, with Satan being the second great event which is revealed during this
period in his career. Only the unfolding of the coming ages can reveal the magnitude of this
terrible conflict. A glimpse is revealed from time to time of the unceasing effort of Satan
to triumph over the Second Adam, as he had done over the first. He met Him in the wilderness,
offering Him all he had gained from the first Adam, even the kingdom of this world; if only
he might become like the Most High, and receive the obedient worship and adoration of the Second
Adam, the Son of God. Again he is seen voicing his attempt to dissuade the Christ from His
sacrificial death, through the impetuous Peter; and still again in the crushing attack upon
the very life of Jesus in the Garden, when, it would seem, Satan attempted to take that life
before it could be offered for the sins of the world.

However victorious Satan may have been over the first Adam, it is certain that he met a complete
and final judgment and sentence in the Second Adam; and that bruising of the serpent's head
was realized which was a part of the Adamic covenant. Referring to His Cross, Jesus said, "Now
is the judgment of this world, now shall the prince of this world be cast out" (Jno. 12:31).
And again in Jno. 16:11, "Of judgment because the prince of this world is judged." It is, therefore,
clear that, though Satan may have triumphed over the first Adam and thereby become the god
and prince of this world; he himself was perfectly and finally triumphed over and judged by
the second Adam in the Cross.

It is quite possible, however, that a sentence may be pronounced and made known some time before
that sentence is actually executed. During such an interval a criminal is said to be under
sentence awaiting his execution, which some higher authority has decreed. This period of sentence
is that in which Satan appears in the present age; which age had its beginning with the Cross.
Execution of this sentence would have banished him forever. That he is not banished is revealed
in the fact that he, even after his judgment in the Cross, is referred to in Scripture as still
being in authority over this world.

An illustration of Satan's present relation to this world may be taken from the history of
Saul and David. It is natural that David, the first to occupy the Davidic throne, should be
a type of Christ, the last and most glorious occupant of that throne (Luke 1:31-33). As there
was a period between the anointing of David and the final banishment of Saul, in which Saul
reigned as a usurper, though under Divine sentence and David was the God-appointed king: in
like manner there is now a similar period in which Satan rules as a usurper, though under sentence;
and the actual occupation of the throne by Christ is still future. In this period Satan, the
rejected monarch, still rules; hunting to the death all those who have allied themselves with
Christ, the God-anointed King.

Why Satan is thus allowed to continue his reign is perhaps but partly revealed. The real Church
which is the Bride of Christ, is to sit with Him upon His throne (Rev. 3:21; I Cor. 6:2, 3;
Matt. 19:28), and the present age must continue until that glorious heavenly people are gathered
out from the world by regeneration. Again, it seems the course of Divine wisdom to make a sufficient
and final trial of every claim of His adversaries; and when this age, with all its developments,
shall have passed by, every mouth will be stopped, and the whole world and Satan will know
their own failure and sin before God. They will stand self-condemned; and nothing could accomplish
this but the testing, by actual trial, of all the self-sufficient claims of Satan and man.
The sin of man has brought him under sentence too; and grace alone withholds his immediate
execution (Jno. 3:18; Rom. 5:18, 19). Though the day of execution is, in the purpose of God
delayed; it is, nevertheless, sure; and the time is fast approaching when an awful destruction
of self-enthroned beings will be executed; and He alone shall reign, whose right it is to reign;
"for He must reign until He hath put all enemies under His feet" (I Cor. 15:25). (Ps. 2:9).

It would seem that Satan cherishes the expectation of actually accomplishing his purpose until
near the end of his career (though the demon testimony of Matt. 8:29 is suggestive on this
point). Preceding his banishment to the pit, he is violently cast out of heaven and into the
earth, according to Rev. 12:7-12; and his activity, from that time on is limited to that sphere.
He is no longer granted access to God. Therefore rejoice, ye heavens, and ye that dwell in them.

Here Satan is pictured as being in great wrath as he is banished from heaven into the earth,
"knowing that he has but a short time." After this short time, which is a terrible tribulation
in the earth, Satan is bound and cast into a pit; this being an event in the glorious return
of Christ to the earth, where He will reign on the throne of His Father David for a thousand
years. Satan is confined to the pit during the same period, at the end of which he is released
for "a little season." He then gathers an army for a last and terrible attack upon the government
and people of God, which ends in his being banished to the lake of fire, where he meets his
final and long predicted doom. These events are clearly stated in their order in the nineteenth
and twentieth chapters of Revelation.

Satan is thus revealed as having been first created perfect in all his ways, mighty in power,
and full of beauty and wisdom. While thus privileged, he proposed a stupendous project in his
heart--himself to become like the Most High. Though cast down and yet having access to God,
he is seen wresting the world scepter from man; and ruling as the god of this world, until
the judgment of the Cross; and after that he still rules as a usurper. At the end of the age
he is cast out of his access to heaven, into the earth; from thence to the pit; and, finally,
is banished to the lake of fire forever.

This review of the career of Satan is made at this point in order to call attention to the
direct and mighty influence he exerts upon the affairs of this world according to his varying
positions and freedom.

After Satan rebelled, humanity, too, was thrown into an abnormal and almost universal attitude
of independence toward God; and this continues beyond the Cross with increasing confusion and
darkness, to the end of the age. The only exception to this rebellion is the little company
of believers; and how terribly real is the tendency to the self-governed life of the old nature,
even among these! When Satan is cast out of heaven and limited to the earth, there is tribulation
upon the earth of which Jesus speaks in Matt. 24:21, and which is also referred to in Dan.
12:1. When Satan is bound and put in the pit, and the promised Kingdom of Christ has come,
there is peace covering the earth as waters cover the face of the deep.

Can it be doubted that this mighty being is a living power, acting directly over the affairs
of men, even in this self-glorying age?

Chapter II.

The Ages.

It is a conspicuous fact that the comparatively few errors and inconsistencies in translation,
found in the English Authorized Version of the New Testament, serve to hinder, directly or
indirectly, any clear understanding of the teachings of Scripture in regard to the conditions
and relationships of the world at the present time. Even the revision did not greatly relieve
this confusion beyond the addition of some helpful marginal renderings. It would seem, if it
were possible, that Satan, the author of confusion and the only one advantaged by it, had been
able in some subtle way to keep in darkness that which would otherwise be light; thus preventing
a revelation of his own projects.

The continuation of these misleading translations is most evident in the unqualified use of
the English word "world." The word which, in common usage, has a limited meaning is used, by
the translators, as the one English rendering for at least four widely differing ideas in the
original. So that, if the truth contained in this important body of Scripture is to be understood,
the student must not only know the various meanings which are expressed by the one word, but
also be able to determine the correct use of the word in any single instance. This necessary
effort to understand the real meaning of many passages has, therefore, placed the simple truth
they contain beyond the average reader of the Bible.

The English word "world" as used in the New Testament may mean a distinct period of time, commonly
known as an age (as its original is a few times translated); or it may refer to the things
created: the earth, its inhabitants, or their institutions. Two of these original meanings
are used in connection with this present time. First, as to an age, or period of time:

The ages are often referred to in Scripture, and the study of the exact conditions and purposes
of each of them is not fanciful: but is rather the only adequate foundation for any true knowledge
of the Bible. Not all the ages can be taken up in this Chapter, but only such as may be confused
with the present one.

The age of law, which began with the giving of the law at Mount Sinai and ended, approximately,
with the death of Christ, is mentioned by Zacharias in his prophecy at the birth of John: "As
he spake by the mouth of his holy prophets which have been since the age began" (Lu. 1:70).
The same period is referred to by Peter in Acts 3:21: "Whom the heavens must receive until
the restitution of all things, which God hath spoken by the mouth of all his prophets since
the age began." These references, it will be seen, are not to the creation of the world, as
the English rendering would indicate; but to the beginning of that particular period in which
the prophets spake.

The present age of grace, in which the grace of God has had its appearing unto salvation, began
where the age of law ended, or with the death of Christ; and will continue until He comes again.
The duration of this age is suggested by the communion table, which, being peculiar to this
age, will continue to its end. (I Cor. 11:26).

As a distinct period of time this age is mentioned by the word "world" no less than forty times
in the New Testament. (Matt. 12:32). (Matt. 24:3). "The field is the world (men); the good
seed are the children of the kingdom; but the tares are the children of the wicked one; the
enemy that sowed them is the devil; the harvest is the end of the world (age); and the reapers
are the angels" (Matt. 13:38, 39). "And, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the
world (age)" (Matt. 28:20). "For the children of this world (age) are in their generation wiser
than the children of light" (Lu. 16:8). "And set him at his own right hand in the heavenlies,
far above all principality, and power, and might, and dominion, and every name that is named,
not only in this world (age), but that which is to come" (Eph. 1:20, 21). (Titus 2:12). By
these and many other passages, it may be seen that the present age is a particular limited
period of time in which special conditions are to prevail, and definite purposes are to be
realized.

Judging from the mass of Christian writings and from utterances in public address and prayer,
this age is assumed by many, without question, to be the Kingdom of Christ; though no Scripture
is found to warrant that conclusion.

There is a kingdom of God which embraces the entire universe, over which God is enthroned,
and to this kingdom every enemy must finally be brought back to original subjection and adjustment,
or be banished forever.

There is a still more extensive body of Scripture which anticipates a literal kingdom of righteousness
and peace upon the earth; this theme being the burden of the Old Testament prophets, and was
announced by John Baptist, by Christ and His disciples. This announcement was simple and plain:
"The kingdom is at hand." The expression "at hand" here used is significant; indicating not
necessarily the immediate future, though the kingdom was definitely offered to that generation;
but that the earthly kingdom was the next event which had been clearly announced by the prophets.
When the Messiah had been positively rejected by the Jews, He began, alone, without even the
sympathy of His disciples, to unfold this forthcoming mystery-age, which had been kept secret
in the councils of God, and which was more perfectly revealed to Paul, the first messenger
to the Gentiles. Of this revelation of a hitherto unknown age, Paul writes in Eph.

The same truth is emphasized in Rom.

This new age of the Gentiles was also to have its hope centered in Jesus Christ, but in His
sacrificial death rather than His kingly reign. It was to be an age in which the Gentiles were
to be visited and a people called out from them for His own Person (Acts 15:14); and these
people, who are the real Church, were to be built together upon a rock (Matt. 16:18); their
glorious salvation and final heavenly perfection were to rest only on His perfect and finished
work for them. By this Divine transformation, He would secure, out of all nations, both Gentiles
and Jews, a heavenly people; wholly fitted in quality to be His own body, His heavenly bride,
and a kingdom of priests unto God.

All this, though not revealed in past ages, was known in the councils of God (Acts 15:18) and
is parenthetical in the history of the Jew. It is a delay of their earthly kingdom and in no
way its fulfillment or substitute.

Want of knowledge of the right divisions of truth is also evident in the general impression
that God has cast off His people, the Jews, and that the Gentiles are their rightful successors
and the recipients of the blessings of their unfulfilled prophecies. This confusion is due
to a failure to distinguish between this and the following age.

Two distinct lines of seed were promised to Abraham. One, an earthly seed, to be like the dust
of the earth, without number (Gen. 13:16), centered wholly in the earth by a relationship of
physical generation: the other seed were likened to the stars of heaven, without number (Gen.
15:5), centered wholly in the heavenlies by a relationship of Spirit regeneration, which is
the present answer of God to all true Abrahamic faith (Rom. 4:1-5). The earthly people found
their origin in the physical fatherhood of Abraham: while the heavenly people find theirs in
the shed blood of Christ. One had an earthly history from Abraham to their dispersion among
the Gentiles--a history which will yet be resumed and the everlasting covenants fulfilled in
the faithfulness of God: the other has a transient earthly pilgrimage from the Cross to their
completion; when they will be caught up to meet and marry their Bridegroom, and be forever
with the Lord (I Thes. 4:13-17).

To one, Christ is the coming glorious Messiah, who will actually sit upon the throne of His
father, David (Lu. 1:31-33), in a literal earthly kingdom (else all Scripture language fails):
to the other, He is the glorious Head of the Body, and coming Bridegroom. One of these lines
of seed are the favored subjects in the earthly kingdom: while the other is to be in His bosom
as a bride, and be associated with Him in His reign (I Cor. 6:2; Rev. 3:21).

As these two lines of seed are everywhere distinct, there must be at least two separate ages
for the accomplishment of these ends. What, then, are these ages?

If it is believed that an earthly kingdom, with Messiah as King, is promised the Jew, it must
also be admitted that the Jew is not now enjoying that kingdom; nor has he had any semblance
of a kingdom in all the centuries since his dispersion among the Gentiles. This age cannot,
therefore, be the predicted earthly kingdom of Christ. Turning to Acts 15:13-18, a description
of the present age and that which will follow is found. The passage is here given: "And after
they had held their peace, James answered, saying, Men and brethren, hearken unto me: Simeon
hath declared how God at the first did visit the Gentiles, to take out of them a people for
his name. And to this agree the words of the prophets; as it is written, after this I will
return, and will build again the tabernacle of David, which is fallen down; and I will build
again the ruins thereof, and I will set it up; that the residue of men might seek after the
Lord, and all the Gentiles, upon whom my name is called, saith the Lord, who doeth all these
things. Known unto God are all His works from the beginning of the world."

It is recorded that, after His resurrection, Jesus was seen for forty days by His apostles
whom He had chosen; and during this time He was speaking to them concerning the Kingdom. It
was natural, therefore, for them to inquire, at the end of those days, "Lord, wilt Thou at
this time restore again the kingdom unto Israel?" (Acts 1:6) and they had full warrant from
the prophets to expect that great event when their Messiah came. They had not, however, grasped
the meaning of the then dawning age of the gathering out of the Bride, and in this passage
they are seen adjusting themselves to the newly revealed Divine program, and recognizing the
God-appointed delay in the predicted earthly kingdom.

In Acts 15: just referred to, the purpose and order of two distinct ages is set forth. The
first age is described as the "visiting of the Gentiles," that from among them a heavenly people
may be called out, and is a description of this present age, which had its beginning in the
very generation in which this passage was written; for no previous age could meet these conditions.
The second age, here described, is that of a distinct rebuilding of the Davidic order, which
is clearly separated from the former age by the return of Christ. This same order of events
is also carefully maintained wherever these events are referred to in Scripture, and any confusion
of the order is a positive violence to the truth. The revealed consummation of this Gentile
age is always the return of Christ, who comes first to receive His own; and then to render
judgment upon all the nations and to bind the enemy and place him in the pit. The same return
of Christ is the necessary preliminary event before any kingdom of righteousness and peace
can be realized upon the earth. No amount of enlightened sentiment can establish a kingdom
without a king; and no universal blessedness can be experienced in this world until the enemy
is dethroned and banished. Sadly has the world failed to include these two necessary Divine
movements, in its vain dream and godless attempt at a perfected universe!

The purpose of this age is then clearly defined as the visiting of the Gentiles to call out
of them a people for His name; the called out people being the true Church (as that word signifies),
which is made up of all the saved ones who have been saved since the Day of Pentecost, at which
time the Spirit came to unite them into one body and to indwell them. They are the heavenly
people, regenerate and complete in Christ, their Bridegroom and living Head.

When this age is considered as the Kingdom of Christ it is usually thought of as in a state
of development. This is a necessary conclusion in view of the presence of sin and failure in
the world. But the setting up of the earthly kingdom is never described as the result of a
process. Scripture deals conclusively with this question.

In Dan. 2:34-35, an image is described, which is defined as being a symbol of the then dawning
Gentile world power (which is still continuing, Lu. 21:24). The image is here made to represent
both the development of world rule and its terrible and final ending. The image is seen to
be gradually developing from one world government to another until the form of the image is
wholly completed. Its ending is then precipitated by a shattering blow from a Stone, "cut out
without hands." By the same inspired interpretation, the "Stone" becomes both a symbol of superhuman
power, being "cut out without hands;" and a type of Christ, the Ancient of Days, in His coming
to the earth as a resistless Monarch; banishing all rule and authority. (Dan. 2:34-35).

This being a Divinely interpreted prophecy as to the extent and ending of the present Gentile
age, it should be noted that the Stone (Christ) strikes the image (the world power) with one
destructive blow, and at the time when it has become fully developed. The blow is struck on
the part of the image which is last formed. The great image is thus instantly and violently
broken to pieces and is even blown away "like the chaff of the summer threshing-floor." In
like manner, according to this prophecy, the whole Gentile rule will suddenly be broken and
will vanish.

It should also be noted from these symbols that the Stone does not "become a mountain and fill
the whole earth" until the great image has been scattered to dust. From this it is certain
that there can be no development of the Kingdom of Christ on the earth before the final breaking
of the kingdoms of the earth. This same order is recognized throughout all prophecy. The king
suddenly returns as lightning shining from one part of heaven to the other; Satan is violently
seized and cast into prison; and a nation is born at once. Also in Matt. 25:31, "when He sits
on the throne of His glory" the "blessed of the Father" are called to enter the kingdom prepared
for them from the foundation of the world. There is no evidence of a gradual process here;
all is sudden and decisive.

Again, this age is not the coming earthly kingdom for nowhere are the promised conditions of
that kingdom now to be found. The Old Testament prophecies contain long and detailed descriptions
of that glorious time; God's ancient people shall become the chosen nation, restored to their
own land; the enemy shall be banished; the earth shall be purified, and blossom as a rose.
(Isa. 11:6-9). (Hos. 2:18). (Zech. 2:10, 11). (Zech. 8:23). (Isa. 35:5, 6). "But this shall
be the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel. (Jer. 31: 33, 34). The zeal of the
Lord of hosts will perform this" (Isa. 9:6, 7). (Lu. 1:32, 33). (Isa. 11:12). (Micah 4:3,4).

Though blessings abound in the individual heart where Christ is enthroned, yet not one trace
of this glorious transformed earth can be found in the present Gentile age.

Chapter III.

The Course of This Age.

It is necessary to distinguish between rightly dividing the word of truth, and a critical attitude
toward that word; the former being an important duty in the believer's life, according to II
Tim. 2:15, while the latter may easily become a wicked and misleading display of unbelief and
the wisdom of this world (I Cor. 1:19).

Personal interest in the Word of God usually begins with the first understanding of its real
divisions; and no one is prepared to understand the providence of God who does not first come
to know something of the purpose of God as marked off by these great divisions. Especially
is this necessary, as has been stated, for any clear understanding of the present age.

Again, the power and force of the whole body of Scripture must depend, in a large measure,
upon a belief in unfulfilled prophecy. Such a belief is not general, even among Christians.
They believe that Christ camp in the flesh, suffered, died, and rose again, because that is
all now a matter of history; but that belief is not greatly influenced by the fact that this
was all exactly foretold by the prophets. Let those who are free to condemn the pious Jew for
not recognizing the fulfillment of prophecy in the first advent of Christ, beware lest they
fail to rightly interpret the signs of these times, or look with positive unbelief upon the
stupendous events that, according to prophecy, are imminent to-day. It seems a sore test of
faith to believe that which is predicted for the present age, though those predictions are
being fulfilled in every particular. This prevailing attitude of unbelief usually arises from
one of two errors; either Satan has been so estimated that it seems impossible for him to be
the promoter of anything that is moral or good (of this error more will be said in the following
chapters): or the exact meaning and purpose of this age has been disbelieved or misunderstood;
and because of these conditions many enthusiastic Christians are found to be, not only working
toward unscriptural and hopeless ends, but are actually contributing to the confusion and darkness
that is prevalent to-day.

The purpose and course of this age are not matters of prediction alone. Almost two thousand
years of history may be considered in the light of these predictions; and while the age is
not yet complete, and much that is reserved for the last days is still future, enough of prophecy
has now been fulfilled to indicate the certain fulfillment of all.

Since there has been no universal conversion of men in even the most favored locality, it is
evident that, thus far, there has been a separating and calling out of a few from the many;
and the Divine purpose, as revealed in Scripture, which is to gather out a people from the
Gentiles for His own name, has been verified. The blessing of God has been upon world-wide
evangelism: rather than upon any fruitless attempts at world-wide conversion; for the individual
or church that has become self-centered has, to that degree, sacrificed the power and blessing
of the presence of Christ which was promised in Matt. 28:20: "Go ye therefore, and disciple
all nations"--"Lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the age."

Again, the formation of the Kingdom has not been discernible in the present age. The Jews,
to whom alone the promises of an earthly kingdom belong, have continued a separate people under
the unseen hand of God, without a country, or a vestige of national life. Certainly none of
the predicted and necessary events accompanying the establishment of their kingdom have been
experienced, nor is there any trace of its promised blessings. The fact that some Jews are
now organizing and looking toward their native land, argues nothing for this age, more than
that its end is very near, and that the way for their coming Messiah and national glory is
being prepared. Just so, the conspicuous fact that all the marvelous present development of
the resources of the earth has been limited to about the last eightieth of the present history
of the age is evidence that the earth's return to her former glory is already in preparation.

Belief in the revealed course of this age is, therefore, based upon history as well as the
predictions of Scripture.

The present age is different from all others by reason of the admixture of opposing classes
of people; there being two distinct divisions (not including the Jew as a nation) living and
acting together, who are, nevertheless, removed from each other by a degree that is immeasurable.
This fact necessitates many careful distinctions and special injunctions which are peculiar
to the age.

The fact that these two widely differing classes are present together, and are to continue
so to the end of the age, is the teaching of the seven parables in the thirteenth chapter of
Matthew. Very much, therefore, depends upon the correct interpretation of these parables. Their
meaning has been somewhat hidden by the use of the word "world" where reference is made to
this period of time; and the fact that the conditions described are true of this age only,
has not been generally realized.

These seven parables are but a description of the unfolding and development of these mixed
elements to be found in Christendom throughout this age. The same program is again proclaimed
by Christ, from the Glory, in the messages to the seven churches of Asia (Rev. 2 and 3). Here
are seven letters to organized existing churches; yet these messages also reveal an exact outline
of the history of Christendom for this entire age; and there is perfect agreement in order
and detail between the parables of Matthew 13 and the letters of Revelation 2 and 3. The first
two parables are interpreted by Christ Himself, and the interpretation of these sheds light
on all that remains.

Christ is the sower in both the first and second of these parables, and the sowing is continued
by His messengers throughout this age. The field is the world of men, which reveals a marked
change from the responsibility of the Jewish age that was then closing; and the results of
the sowing are most definite: not all the good seed sown comes to fruitage; and the wheat and
the tares grow together until the end of the age. This interpretation is not fanciful, for
it is given by Christ Himself; and the following parables must necessarily agree with these.
The third and fourth are of the mustard seed and the measure of meal. Though commonly interpreted
to mean the world-wide development of the Church and the permeating influence of the Gospel,
in the light of the interpretation of the previous parables they can mean only the mixture
of evil with that which began as small as a mustard seed and as pure as meal. The fifth parable
is of a treasure hid in a field, which pictures the earthly people in the world; while their
real relation to Christ is covered until the accomplishment of that which is revealed in the
sixth. Here the same man, the Lord Jesus Christ, sells all that He hath to purchase the Church,
the pearl of great price, for He "loved the Church, and gave Himself for it" (Eph. 5:25); the
pearl, by its formation and its power to reflect the light, being a wonderful type of the Church
in her present formation and future place in glory. Both the treasure and the pearl are found
in the world, but do not include all of the world. The last parable but restates the truth
that the mixture of the good and the evil is to continue to the end of the age.

The highest ambition of the great missionary, Paul, was to be all things to all men that he
might save some, not all. He found that his preaching was a savor of "death unto death" as
well as of "life unto life" (II Cor. 2:15, 16), and he clearly states in II Tim. 3:13, "And
evil men shall wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived." (Matt. 24:37-39).

This truth is often rejected as being pessimistic and disloyal to the progress of the world:
yet has not the history of the age verified the teaching? And is not the coming glory nearer
and more certain when depending upon His promised return in resistless power and splendor,
than when depending upon any human progress the world has ever known? One is the majestic movement
of the Divine program in fulfillment of every covenant: while the other is the vain dream of
the world in its ignorance and disregard of the testimony of God.

Because of the presence of these two classes in the world in this age, there are two very distinct
lines of Scripture descriptive of them. One body of Scripture directly applies to and governs
the "wheat" or heavenly people, and one applies to the "tares," the "children of the evil one."
The marvelous revelation of the believer's relation to Christ and the heavenlies, and his deliverance
from any actual identification with this age, though in it, will be the subject of another
chapter. Only the relation of the unregenerate to this world and to Satan will be continued here.

As it has pleased Satan to hide himself and all his projects from the unbelieving world, that
which God has revealed in all faithfulness will be received only by those who have unquestioning
confidence in His Word.

According to Scripture, the relation of the unbelieving to Satan is far more vital than a mere
pleasure-seeking allegiance. On two occasions Jesus spoke of the unsaved as the "children of
Satan" (Matt. 13:38; Jno. 8:44), and Paul so addressed Elymas, the sorcerer, according to Acts
13:10. The same class is also twice called the "children of disobedience" (Eph. 2:2; Col. 3:6),
and once it is called the "children of wrath" (Eph. 2:3).

It is evident that these are descriptions of the same class of people, since both terms are
employed together in Eph. 5:6: "Let no man deceive you: for because of these things cometh
the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience." The exact cause of that wrath is stated
in Rom. 2:7, where the Holy Spirit is said to be restraining the working of lawlessness in
this age. Therefore, the willing neglect and disregard for the testimony of God by the world,
has allied them with Satan, and placed them under the wrath of God, which must find its righteous
execution in due time if grace is not accepted. The real force of this passage, also, is dependent
upon the meaning of one word; the word "worketh" being the same as is used in Phil. 2:13, where
God is said to impart His wisdom and strength to the believer: "For it is God that worketh
in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure." Additional light may be had as to the
reality of this relationship from the following passages in which the same original word is
used: "And there are diversities of operations, but it is the same God that worketh all in
all" (I Cor. 12:6); "But all these (gifts) worketh that one and the selfsame Spirit, dividing
to every man severally as he will" (Eph. (Col. 1:29); "Now unto Him that is able to do exceeding
abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to his power that worketh in us" (Eph.
3:20). It is also said in regard to the energizing power of Satan, using the same original
word: "For the mystery of iniquity doth already work" (II Thes. In the last two passages quoted,
the meaning is, like the preceding passages, of an imparted energy, and is, therefore, most
suggestive.

It may then be concluded from the testimony of Scripture that Satan imparts his wisdom and
strength to the unbelieving in the same manner as the power of God is imparted to the believer
by the Holy Spirit. There is, however, no revelation as to the comparative degree of strength
imparted by each. It should be further noted in this connection that this impartation of energizing
power from Satan is not toward a limited few who might be said, because of some strange conduct,
to be possessed of a demon; but is the common condition of all who are yet unsaved, and are,
therefore, still in the "power of darkness."

The relation between the unregenerate and Satan is still more vital, according to the original
from which I Jno. 5:19 is translated. The Revised Version renders it, with marginal note, as
follows: "We know that we are of God, and the whole world lieth in the evil one." In this passage
there are two startling revelations in regard to this relationship. First: the word "in" is
the same as is used everywhere of the believer when he is said to be in Christ, and in the
case of the believer it signifies an organic union to Christ--as a branch is in the vine, so
the believer is in Christ. Though the word, when used of the unregenerate, probably cannot
mean the same degree of organic life-relationship as exists between Christ and the believer,
yet it does denote a deep relationship; and Satan is the light, inspiration, and power, of
all those whom he energizes.

The second revelation in the passage is found in the word "lieth"--"The whole world lieth in
the evil one." It might as well be translated "lieth asleep;" for its condition is not only
a fixed position in the evil one, but is also a condition of unconsciousness. The saved ones
are said to be in the Father's hand where no created thing can pluck them out (Jno. 10:29),
and underneath are the everlasting arms: so the great mass of unsaved humanity is in the arms
of Satan; and by his subtlety they are all unconscious of their position and relation. This
is not at all strange. Even the believer has no present power to discern his glorious position
and security in the Father's hand, apart from the assurance of the written Word. Much less,
then, can the unbeliever come to realize his own position in the arms of Satan, when, under
the direction of Satan, he gives no heed to the testimony of God.

Still another passage should be noted in this connection. In II Cor. 4:3, 4, Satan is described
as the god of this world, blinding the minds of the unbelieving. The whole passage is as follows:
"And if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled in them that perish: in whom the god of this age
hath blinded the thoughts of the unbelieving that the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ,
who is the image of God should not dawn upon them" (R.V. with margin). In this passage the
unconscious condition is said to be the direct result of the power of Satan, and the blindness
of their thoughts, it is stated, is along one particular line. To them the gospel is veiled;
and the gospel here referred to is not the whole life story of Jesus, nor is it the "Gospel
of the Kingdom;" but the message of good news or favor; the exact terms of Salvation by grace
alone. This Paul here calls "our gospel," for to him it was first unfolded in its completeness.

The unregenerate are, then, unconscious of their position in the arms of Satan, and blind in
their thoughts toward the gospel of mercy and favor,--their only hope for time or eternity.
Satan, like a fond mother, is bending over those in his arms, breathing into their minds the
quieting balm of a "universal fatherhood of God" and a "universal brotherhood of man;" suggesting
their worthiness before God on the ground of their own moral character and physical generation;
feeding their tendency to imitate the true faith by great humanitarian undertakings and schemes
for the reformation of individuals and the betterment of the social order. (Eph. 5:18). How
important, as a preparation for salvation, is the illuminating work of the Spirit in conviction,
by which He lifts the veil and opens the mind to a new vision of the redemption and glory that
is in Christ! Without this God-given vision there can be no understanding of the way of life,
nor any intelligent decision for Christ.

Chapter IV.

This Age and the Satanic System.

It may also be concluded from the study of the ages that God has not been pleased to meet the
presumptuous claims of Satan or of man by a simple denial of those claims; He has chosen, rather,
to bring everything to an experimental test. One advantage of this method is obvious: every
mouth will be stopped, and the entire universe of beings will see clearly the utter folly of
that which might have been arbitrarily denied. Man can no longer claim that his conscience
is sufficient to guide him to his highest destiny; since the whole race, when standing on that
basis before God, so utterly failed that their destruction, by a flood, was necessary: in like
manner, by the history of a most favored people in the age preceding the first advent of Christ,
man has demonstrated his own inability to do right or to keep the law. In the present age,
man proves his separation from his Creator by his spirit of self-sufficiency and positive rejection
of God. The present issue between God and man is one of whether man will accept God's estimate
of him, abandon his hopeless self-struggle, and cast himself only on God who alone is sufficient
to accomplish his needed transformation. All Divine love, wisdom, and power have wrought to
make these conditions open to man; and when this last and supreme effort of God has been rejected,
the final pleading with man must be forever past, and the long delayed judgment upon sin be
executed in righteousness.

It has already been pointed out that Satan purposed in his heart to attempt all the functions
of God; and, according to Scripture, that which he purposed is being permitted, to the extent
of his ability, throughout the course of this age. Though his failure and defeat have been
predicted from the beginning, yet it has pleased God to permit the Satanic ambition to come
to its own destruction, and to demonstrate its own weakness and wicked folly. No other solution
is given of the present power of Satan and the terrible manifestations of his increasing authority
yet to be experienced in the closing scenes of this age.

His present authority is by no means complete. In II Thes. 2:7 it is stated: "The mystery of
lawlessness doth already work: only there is one that restraineth now, until he be taken out
of the way." This is a description of the work of the Holy Spirit as He restrains and hinders
the development of the power of evil. Nor can Satan direct the affairs of that part of humanity
who have been delivered from the power of darkness and are now united to Christ (unless they
yield to his wishes); though they are in the world and their earth lives are mingled in much
of its history. These saved ones are the antiseptic salt, hindering, like the Spirit who indwells
them, the untimely dissolution of humanity. Again, Satan's dominion is limited in that "there
is no power but of God: and the powers that be are ordained of God" (Rom. 13:1). In this Scripture
it is revealed that Satan, though in authority, is not wholly free from his Creator, and that
any direction of the governments of the world which he exercises is by permission from God.
Therefore, the efforts of Satan and man are not supreme, but must come to their predicted end
when the eternal purpose of God has had its realization in the gathering out from the Gentiles
of the heavenly people for His own name.

A few tremble in the face of the social and industrial problems of the day; while the vast
majority are confident that the sagacity of man is not only controlling iniquity, but is gradually
developing an improved social order. Thus, man, in his vanity, assigns to himself that which
is of God alone, for all the elements of corruption and tribulation are latent in the world
to-day, and the mighty effort of God is required to stay its bursting into flame until the
appointed time. Tribulation will, therefore, instantly begin when the hand of God is removed
from the unregenerate and Satan-ruled humanity.

Though under the restraining hand of God, Satan, according to Scripture, is now in authority
over the unregenerate world, and the unsaved are unconsciously organized and federated under
his leading. The fact that there is such a federation, although stated in Scripture, is obscured
in translation. In at least thirty important passages the English word "world" is again used
without qualification. In these passages reference is made to a great evil system or order
over which Satan is in authority, the word "world" referring to the world of men, their evil
undertakings, ideals and federation. This federation includes all of the unsaved and fallen
humanity; it has the co-operation of the fallen spirits, and is but the union of all who are
living and acting in independence of God. This Satanic system has its own ideals and principles
which are in sharp contrast to the ideals and principles given the redeemed: yet these two
classes must mingle together as closely as the ties of human life can come.

The whole truth concerning this federation is contained in those passages wherein the Satanic
system is mentioned.

First, Satan is its governing head. Three times Jesus referred to Satan as the prince of the
Satanic system: "Now is the judgment of this world: Now shall the prince of this world (Satanic
system) be cast out" (Jno. 12:31). "Hereafter I will not talk much with you: for the prince
of this world (Satanic system) cometh, and hath nothing in me" (Jno. 14:30). "Of judgment,
because the prince of this world (Satanic system) is judged" (Jno. 16:11). Paul also refers
to Satan as the "prince of the power of the air" (Eph. 2:2), and again as the "god of this
age" (II Cor. 4:4). In the latter passage, mention is made of the age or period of time only,
as in Eph. 6:12: "For our wrestling is not against flesh and blood, but against the principalities,
against the powers, against the age rulers of this darkness, against the spiritual hosts of
wickedness in the heavenlies" (R.V.).

From these Scriptures it must be conceded that the offer, which Satan made to Christ, of the
then inhabited earth, was very real. If Thou therefore wilt worship me, all shall be Thine"
(Lu. 4:5-7). It has sometimes been held that the claim of possession of the earth was a lie,
this being asserted on the ground that Satan is exposed in Scripture as a liar. Such a conclusion
is impossible for at least two reasons. It would have been no temptation had he not possessed
the kingdoms he offered; and any such false claim would have been immediately branded as a
lie by the Son of God. He is still further revealed as the recognized head of this world system
in two additional passages: "Because greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world
(Satanic system)" (I Jno. 4:4). "And we know that we are of God, and the whole world (Satanic
system) lieth in the wicked one" (I Jno. 5:19).

Returning to Isaiah 14:12-19, wherein Satan is described as "Lucifer, the son of the morning,"
and where the prophet in vision sees the whole career of Satan in retrospect, it will be seen
that Satan holds a mighty grip upon the world. Every phrase in this remarkable passage is a
revelation. Undoubtedly there is reference here both to the fall of man and to the authority
of Satan in the earth, as well as to his attitude of resistance toward salvation which is by
the grace of God, since it is said of Satan that he "made the world as a wilderness; he opened
not the house of his, prisoners."

Second, the Satanic system, according to Scripture, is wholly evil. This is a hard saying;
and is usually denied by those who do not realize that all Scripture estimates are made from
the standard of the holiness of God; and that the Satanic system, of itself and apart from
the influence of God and His people, has never improved their own moral condition, but that
they are individually under condemnation before God (Jno. 3:18); their borrowed interest in
morality and charity being a poor commendation, in view of their fallen and Christ-rejecting
attitude before God. They are also incapable of comprehending the standards of God, whose thoughts
and ways are above their thoughts and ways as the heavens are higher than the earth (Isa. 55:8,9).
The quality and incapacity of the fallen race is accurately described in Rom. 3:10-18; this
description of them being as they appear before the holiness of God, stripped of all externals:
"As it is written, There is none righteous, no, not one: there is none that understandeth,
there is none that seeketh after God. They are all gone out of the way, they are together become
unprofitable; there is none that doeth good, no, not one. So, fallen humanity, federated under
Satan, will appear and act when the restraining hand of God is removed. Though the unsaved
are moral, educated, refined, or religious, they are not righteous in God's sight; for the
charge here brought against them is that "there is none righteous, no, not one;" and "all have
sinned and come short of the glory of God." (II Pet. I:4). (II Pet. 2:20). (Jas. 1:27). "Ye
adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that the friendship of the world (Satanic system)
is enmity with God? Whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world (Satanic system) is the
enemy of God" (Jas. 4:4). "For whosoever is born of God overcometh the world (Satanic system)"
(I Jno. 5:4). (I Jno. 4:3). In like manner the believer is said to have been "delivered from
the present evil age" (Gal. 114) and "delivered from the power of darkness" (Col. 1:13) and
is not to be conformed to this age (Rom. 12:2).

These judgments are made from the view-point of the purity and holiness of God. In His sight
the highest moral, educational, and religious ideals that the unregenerate world can comprehend
are but a part of the confusion and darkness of this age when coupled with a rejection of His
testimony in regard to His Son as their atoning Saviour.

Thus, it is presented from the Scripture that the present age and its great federation is,
in God's sight, most unholy. (Acts 10:38). (Lu. 13: 16). And the Lord said unto Satan, Behold,
all that he hath is in thy power; only upon himself put not forth thine hand" (Job. 1:9-12).
(Lu. 22:31, 32 R.V.). "And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of
the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet
me, lest I should be exalted above measure" (II Cor. 12:7).

By these passages, the emphasis of Scripture on the power and authority of Satan in this age
may be seen. And though the exact limits of his power under the restraining hand of God are
not revealed, it would be unreasonable to deny that he is the god of this age, the head of
the great world system; and, though all unknown to them, the director of the affairs of unregenerate
men.

Fourth, The works of the Satanic order are clearly outlined in several descriptive passages
which also present that which is highest in ideal, and deepest in motive in the Satan energized
mass of humanity. (I Jno. 2:16). (Gen. 3:6). The real nature of these cravings is easily recognized
as wholly self-centered and without thought of God or of any true character.

All "wars and fightings" among men are only a natural result of the evil qualities of this
great federation. Jesus said to Pilate: "My kingdom is not of this world (Satanic system):
if my kingdom were of this world (Satanic system), then would my servants fight, that I should
not be delivered unto the Jews: but now is my kingdom not from hence" (Jno. 18:36). It is a
noticeable fact that the governments of the world depend upon physical power and a display
of armament to maintain their position and authority, and the superior law of love does not
seem to be adapted to, or understood by, the elements that make up the Satanic order.

Fifth, All earthly property is of the Satanic order, which property the believer may use, but
must not abuse: "But whoso hath this world's good (Satanic system), and seeth his brother have
need, and shutteth up his bowels of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him?"
(I Jno. 3:17). "And the cares of this age, and the deceitfulness of riches, and the lust of
other things entering in, choke the word, and it becometh unfruitful" (Mark 4:19). (I Cor.
7:29-31).

Sixth, The same world that crucified the Christ will also hate the saved one in whom He dwells:
"Marvel not, my brethren, if the world (Satanic system) hate you" (I Jno. 3:13).

Seventh, The impotency and limitations of the world order are most evident. Its leader, though
mighty, is inferior to Christ: "Ye are of God, little children, and have overcome them: because
greater is he that is in you, than he that is in the world (Satanic system)" (I Jno. 4:4).
(I Jno. 3:1 R.V.). But he that is spiritual judgeth all things, and He Himself is judged of
no man" (I Cor. 2:14, 15, R.V.).

"There is none that understandeth, there is none that seeketh after God" (Rom. 3:11). (II Cor.
4:3, 4, R.V.). "They are of this world (Satanic system): therefore speak they as of the world,
and the world (Satanic system) heareth them" (I Jno. 4:5, R.V.). All the sorrow of this order
is without hope: "For godly sorrow worketh repentance unto salvation, a repentance which bringeth
no regret: But the sorrow of the world (Satanic system) worketh death" (II Cor. 7:10, R.V.).
(II Pet. 3:10). "And the world (Satanic system) passeth away and the lust thereof: but he that
doeth the will of God abideth forever" (I Jno. 2:17).

Chapter V.

The Satanic Host.

Christ inferred, in one of His controversies with the Pharisees (Matt. 12:22-30), that Satan
is a King; and as such is in authority over a kingdom. This particular discussion was in regard
to the fact that Christ had healed one "possessed with a demon, blind and dumb." The Pharisees
claimed that the demon had been cast out by Beelzebub the prince of demons, or the one whom
Jesus, later in the narrative, calls Satan. The passage is as follows: "Then was brought unto
Him one possessed with a devil, blind, and dumb; and He healed him, insomuch that the blind
and dumb both spake and saw. And all the people were amazed, and said, Is not this the son
of David? But when the Pharisees heard it, they said, This fellow doth not cast out devils,
but by Beelzebub the prince of the devils. And if I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do
your children cast them out? therefore they shall be your judges. But if I cast out devils
by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God has come unto you. He that is not with me is
against me; and he that gathereth not with me scattereth abroad."

By this Scripture it may be seen that the kingdom of Satan is a host of bodiless spirits. Although
their origin cannot be definitely traced, it is probable that they were created as subjects
of Satan in the primal glory, as he, also, was created as their prince and king. Satan, being
in authority over these beings, doubtless drew them after him in his sinful attempt to thrust
himself into the place of God.

It would seem that Satan is in authority over two distinct orders of beings--the Satanic order
of the earth, and the Satanic host of the air. It is clear that he secured the scepter of government
in the earth from Adam, by right of conquest: while his authority over the Satanic host is,
undoubtedly, that which he has been permitted to retain from his creation. If Satan has thus
kept his authority over these spirits from the beginning, it follows that they are in full
sympathy with him and render him willing service. The following Scriptures emphasize the authority
of Satan over these beings: "And if Satan cast out Satan, how then shall his kingdom stand?"
(Matt. 12:26).

The reality and personality of this host of evil spirits is taught in Scripture; and a careful
study of the numerous passages in which they are mentioned will reveal how God has provided
complete instruction in His Word concerning this theme on which so much of the believer's welfare
depends.

These spirits are usually referred to in both the Authorized and Revised Versions of the New
Testament as "devils," but the word might better have been translated "demons."

In considering the service these beings render to Satan, it is important to distinguish between
demon possession or control, and demon influence. In the one case the body is entered and a
dominating control is gained: while in the other case a warfare from without is carried on
by suggestion, temptation, and influence.

Investigation of the Scriptures in regard to demon possession reveals:

First: That this host is made up of bodiless spirits only. "And all the devils besought him,
saying, Send us into the swine, that we may enter into them" (Mark 5:12).

Second: They are, however, not only seeking to enter the bodies of either mortals or beasts
(for their power seems to be in some measure dependent upon such embodiment); but they are
constantly seen to be thus embodied, according to the New Testament. A few of these passages
are given here: "When the even was come, they brought unto him many that were possessed with
devils: and he cast out the spirits with his word, and healed all that were sick" (Matt. 8:16).
"As they went out, behold, they brought to him a dumb man possessed with a devil. And when
the devil was cast out, the dumb spake" (Matt. 9:32, 33). "And the people with one accord gave
heed unto those things which Philip spake, hearing and seeing the miracles which he did. (Acts
16:16). "And they came over unto the other side of the sea, into the country of the Gadarenes.

Third: They are wicked, unclean, and vicious. (Matt. 8:28). (Matt. 10:1). And always, night
and day, he was in the mountains, and in the tombs, crying, and cutting himself with stones"
(Mark 5:2-5). "And they brought him unto him: and when he saw him, straightway the spirit tare
him; and he fell on the ground, and wallowed foaming" (Mark 9:20).

It might be added that there seem to be degrees of wickedness represented by these spirits:
for it is stated in Matt. 12:43-45 that the demon, returning to his house, "taketh with himself
seven other spirits more wicked than himself."

The question is often raised whether demon possession obtains at the present time. Although
the authentic records of such control are almost wholly limited to the three years of the public
ministry of Jesus, it is incredible that demon possession did not exist before that time, or
has not existed since. In this connection it should be remembered that these beings are not
only intelligent themselves, but that they are directly governed and ordered by Satan, whose
wisdom and cunning are so clearly set forth in the Scriptures. It is reasonable to conclude
that they, like their monarch, are adapting the manner of their activity to the enlightenment
of the age and locality. It is evident that they are not now less inclined than before to enter
and dominate a body. Demon possession in the present time is probably often unsuspected because
of the unrecognized fact that demons are capable of inspiring a moral and exemplary life, as
well as of appearing as the dominating spirit of a spiritist medium, or through the grosser
manifestations that are recorded by missionaries from heathen lands. These demons, too, like
their king, will appear as "angels of light" as well as "roaring lions," when by the former
impersonation they can more perfectly further the stupendous undertakings of Satan in his warfare
against the work of God.

Demon influence, like the activity of Satan, is prompted by two motives: both to hinder the
purpose of God for humanity, and to extend the authority of Satan. They, therefore, at the
command of their king, willingly co-operate in all his God-dishonoring undertakings. Their
influence is exercised both to mislead the unsaved and to wage an unceasing warfare against
the believer (Eph. 6:12).

Their motive is suggested in what is revealed by their knowledge of the authority and deity
of Christ, as well as by what they know of their eternal doom. (Matt. 8:29). (Mark 1:23-25).
"And the evil spirit answered and said, Jesus I know, and Paul I know; but who are ye?" (Acts
19:15). "Thou believest that there is one God; thou doest well: the devils also believe, and
tremble" (Jas. 2:19).

Of the methods of demons in the latter days of the age, the Scriptures bear special testimony.
(I Tim. 4: 1, 2). A departure from the true faith is thus predicted to be the evidence of the
influence of demons in the last days. This is none other than the great apostasy that must
precede the "Day of the Lord" according to II Thes. 2:2, 3.

The believer's security in this unceasing warfare is treated at length in another chapter.
It may be noted here, however, that the God-appointed means for this victory are prayer and
bodily control, "Howbeit this kind goeth not out but by prayer and fasting" (Matt. 17:21);
and in the appropriation of the Person of Christ as the believer's sufficiency, as He is set
forth in His saving power by the various parts of the "whole armour" of Eph. 6:13-18.

Satan, though proposing to supersede the Almighty, is not Omnipotent: but his power, and the
extent of his activity are immeasurably increased by the co-operation of his host of demons.
Satan is not Omniscient: yet his knowledge is greatly extended by the combined wisdom and observation
of his sympathetic subjects. Satan is not Omnipresent: but he is able to keep up an unceasing
activity in every locality by the loyal obedience of the Satanic host, who are so numerous
as to be called "Legion."

Chapter VI.

Satan's Motive.

According to Scripture, the supreme motive of Satan is his purpose to become like the Most
High and, though that purpose was formed even before the age of man, it has been his constant
actuating motive from that time until now. It is also the teaching of Scripture that this present
period of time is that in which Satan is in especial authority; he being permitted the exercise
of his own power in order that he, and all his followers, may make their own final demonstration
to the whole universe of the utter folly of their claims and of their abject helplessness when
wholly independent of their Creator. This is definitely predicted in II Tim. 3:9 as the final
outcome of the atttitude of the world in its independence toward God: "They shall proceed no
further: for their folly shall be manifest to all men."

It has also been stated that the unsurpassed tribulation only awaits the withdrawal of the
restraining hand of God, for all the required elements for such a condition are latent in the
unregenerate heart (Rom. 3:9-18). In this terrible period of tribulation the greatest power
of Satan will be exercised, and the wickedness of man will be revealed in his attempt to live
in whole separation from God.

Even fallen humanity would not, at first, acknowledge Satan as its object of worship and federal
head; and such a condition of society wherein Satan will be received as supreme (as he will
be in the person of the first Beast of Rev. 13), must, therefore, be developed by generations
of increasing irreverence and lawlessness toward God. Thus it has been necessary for Satan
to conceal his person and projects from the very people over whom he is in authority and in
whom he is the energizing power. For this reason this class of humanity believes least in his
reality, and ignorantly rejects its real leader as a mystical person. When he is worshipped
it is through some idol as a medium, or through his own impersonation of Jehovah; and when
he rules it is by what seems to be the voice of a King or the voice of the people. However,
the appalling irreverence of the world to-day is the sure preparation of the forthcoming direct
manifestation of Satan, as predicted in Dan. 11, II Thes. 2 and Rev. 13. (II Thes. 2:9, 10).
"And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent, which is the Devil, and Satan, which
deceiveth the whole world" (Rev. 12:9). (Rev. 20: 7, 8). He who was the measure of perfection,
full of beauty and wisdom; he who made the earth to tremble; who shook kingdoms; has been willing
to be ridiculed by the world as a being without reality, that he might, in the end, realize
his own deepest desire.

Again, his own subjects have strangely neglected the plain teachings of Scripture on his real
power and authority. To them he has been an imaginary fiend, delighting only in the torment
of unfortunate souls; making his home in hell, and himself the impersonation of all that is
cruel and vile: when, on the contrary, he is real, and is the very embodiment of the highest
ideals the unregenerate world has received; for he is the inspirer of all those ideals. With
his own he is not at enmity, and he, like the most refined of the world, is in no sympathy
with the grosser forms of their sin. He would hinder those manifestations of evil if he could.
And certainly he does not prompt them; for they are the natural fruit of an unrestrained fallen
nature, according to James 1:14, 15: "But every man is tempted, when he is drawn away of his
own lust, and enticed. (Mk. 7:21-23). The dying drunkard, the fallen woman, and the suffering
of the innocent are the evidences of Satan's failure rather than the realization of his purpose.

His own terrible sin before God would not be condemned in the eyes of the world, for it is
that which they most idealize and praise. In his sin he aspired to that which is highest, and
proposed to realize his ideal by his own self-sufficiency and strength. True, he has lowered
his Creator, in his own mind, to a level where he supposes himself to be in legitimate competition
with Him, both for authority over other beings and for their worship. Yet this unholy ambition
and disregard for the Creator is a most commendable thing according to the standards of the
Satanic order. In the language of the world, Satan is simply "self made" and every element
of his attitude toward his Creator is, as a principle of life, both commended and practiced
by the world.

Though hiding himself, Satan has had the satisfaction, under limitations, of governing the
affairs of men; and the delight, to a large extent, of receiving their worship. The greatest
care was taken in the law governing God's ancient people that they should not offer their sacrifices
unto devils, which was the practice of surrounding nations (Lev. 17:7; Deut. 32:17). In violation
of these special laws, Rehoboam instituted special priests for the devils (II Chron. (I Cor.
10:20, 21). (Rev. 9:20).

Again: Satan's ambition is leading him to make this age of his special opportunity as near
perfect as his wisdom and power will permit. And in this connection it may be noted that Satan's
ambition was not to become a fiend, but rather to become like the Most High. He will, therefore,
strive for all that is moral and good: yet at the same time do all in his power to draw men
from their natural reverence of God, that, in due time, they may acknowledge himself without
fear. The Satanic ideal of this age is, then, an improved social order, a moral and cultured
people, who are devout worshippers of himself, though for the present they may imagine they
are worshipping Jehovah through their empty religious forms and ceremonies, while they are
really in a state of God-dishonoring unbelief, and all their thoughts are energized by Satan
alone. The Satanic message for this age will be reformation and self-development, while the
message of God is regeneration by the power of the Spirit.

Satan, in his imitation of the Most High, is also working toward a universal kingdom of morality
and peace upon earth, which will be temporarily realized under the reign of the Beast (Rev.
13). The difference between Satan's ideal and the purpose of God, apart from the utter folly
of the one and the glorious certainty of the other, is of both method and time. According to
the Satanic program, the present order of society, with himself on the throne, is to be developed
into an ideal brotherhood, in which all men will practice that which is moral and good. According
to the program of God, this is an evil age of darkness and pollution, in which the folly of
Satan and man is to be proven, and out of which He is to gather the heavenly people for His
own name. The kingdom of righteousness is then to follow, being ushered in by Christ-enthroning
and Satan-dethroning events. There will then be a perfect humanity and social order for "all
shall know the Lord from the least unto the greatest" and "righteousness and peace shall cover
the earth as the waters cover the face of the deep."

The master passion of Satan leads him, not only to strive for the success of his own projects,
but also to wage an unceasing warfare against Jehovah. These two lines of activity are inseparable;
for he cannot establish and develop his own kingdom, and, at the same time, permit his subjects
to be translated out of his kingdom into another, especially when they remain in the midst
as a living power and testimony against him. Nor can he reasonably allow the accomplishment
of any of the projects of God; for it is predicted that at the completion of these his own
doom will be at hand. The present time is, therefore, to Satan, the struggle for his own existence,
as well as the realization of all that has been his ambition in the ages past. The warfare
is no mere passing amusement for him, for he, in desperation, is facing a terrible and awful
judgment if he cannot succeed in his purpose.

The spectacle now presented to all enlightened beings of the universe, is that of a mighty
celestial being, the god of the earth, who is by creation the full measure of perfection, both
in wisdom and beauty, making his last and most desperate warfare, both to realize his own ambition
and to thwart every movement of the Most High; knowing that in failure there is no ground for
mercy, but only the terrible destruction that has been so long predicted. He knew when he formed
this God-dishonoring purpose that it must either wholly succeed or he himself fall into terrible
judgment. On the other side of the conflict there is perfect calmness and certainty as to the
end, for the judgment and sentence are past; yet every true believer is implored to be instant
in season and out of season in the present projects of grace, that the sufferings and separations
of earth may be cut short in righteousness.

Well may believers study their own motives in service in view of these vastly differing programs;
and question whether there is in them a humble willingness to co-operate in the present purpose
of God in preparing the Bride for the returning King: or whether they have carelessly fallen
in with the Satanic ideal, which rejects the coming Kingdom of Christ by an unholy attempt
to establish the present kingdom of Satan.

The program of Satan, which the world calls "optimistic" rests on the Satanic purpose of a
reformed society: the program of God, which is called "pessimistic" in that it discredits this
age, rests upon the infinite wisdom, love and power of God; and is so certain and near that
the believer is taught to watch, wait, and be ready for the first Divine movement toward this
glorious end.

Chapter VII.

Satan's Methods.

The two great activities of Satan, already mentioned, are referred to in II Thes. 2:4 in connection
with the Man of sin, who will be Satan's last and greatest manifestation. This being is spoken
of as he "who opposeth and exalteth himself above all that is called God, or that is worshipped."
These two activities are inseparable in that, while Satan is seeking to exalt himself above
all that is called God or that is worshipped, he can keep his subjects or prolong his own existence
only by an unceasing warfare in which he opposes himself against God. Whether Satan now believes
that he may yet succeed in spite of the decree of the Cross and the evident superior power
of God, is not revealed.

It is still further revealed that the enmity of Satan is not only toward the person of God,
from whom he has everything to fear, but also toward every true child of God. Too much emphasis
cannot be placed on this fact. Satan has no controversy or warfare with his own unregenerate
people, but there is abundant Scripture to prove that he makes unceasing effort to mar the
life and service of believers. The motive for this effort is all-sufficient: they have "partaken
of the Divine nature" (II Pet. 1:4), and afford, therefore, a possible opportunity for Satan
to thrust his fiery darts at the Divine Person. Thus the believer becomes a medium of connection
between the Divine Person and the Satanic Order; for God literally loves the unsaved through
the believer (Rom. 5:5): and on the other hand, the prince of the Satanic system, as well as
many of his subjects, is seeking an opportunity for a thrust at the person of God. (Jno. 16:33).
(II Tim. 3:12). "Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you" (I Jno. 3:13). "Casting all
your care upon him; for he careth for you. (I Pet. 5:7-9). "Finally, be strong in the Lord,
and in the power of his might. (Eph. 6:10-12 R.V.).

The teaching of these passages clearly indicates the Satanic enmity toward the believer, and
the believer's utter helplessness apart from the Divine sufficiency. (Jno. 17:15). Certainly
there is abundant reason for the believer to expect the fiercest opposition from the Satanic
host in all his life and service; and faith alone insures his victory over the world.

The believer is also the object of the Satanic attack because of the great fact that unto him
is committed the great ministry of reconciliation; that by his testimony both in life and word,
and by his prayers, the facts of redemption may be given to the world; and if Satan can but
cripple the believer's service, he accomplishes much in resisting the present purpose of God.
No other explanation is adequate for the dark ages of Church history, the appalling failure
of the Church in world-wide evangelism, or her present sectarian divisions and selfish indifference.

This blighting Satanic opposition can be detected in every effort for the salvation of the
lost. It may be seen in the fact that no personal appeal is ever made to the vast majority
even in this favored land; or, when an appeal is made, it is easily distracted or diverted
into the discussion of unimportant themes. The faithful pastor or evangelist is most sorely
assailed, every device of Satan being used to distort the one all-important message of Grace
into something that is not vital. The evangelist's call for decisions is often cumbered with
that which is misleading or is a positive misstatement of the terms of Salvation; thus the
appeal is lost and the whole effort fails. The action of Satan may also be detected in that
a humble messenger who is loyal to Christ and His Salvation by grace alone, will be almost
unheeded at the present time: while the vast throng will be found supporting that which is
religious only in its externals, but which is, in reality, a gospel of morality and subtle
denial of the redemption that is in Christ.

Again, the opposing power of Satan may be seen in the matter of Christian giving. Millions
are given without solicitation for education, culture, and humanity's physical comfort, but
real world-wide evangelization must ever drag on with its shameful limitations and debts. This
warfare of Satan is even more noticeable in the believer's prayer life; this being his place
of greatest usefulness and power, is subject to the greatest conflict. In this connection it
may be stated safely that there is comparatively no prevailing prayer to-day; yet the way is
open and the promises are sure. Then, also, if the believer cannot be beguiled into indifference
or a denial of Christ, he is tempted to place an undue emphasis upon some minor truth, and,
in partial blindness, to sacrifice his whole influence for good through the apparent unbalance
of his testimony.

Satan's warfare against the purpose of God is still more evident in his direct hindering of
the unsaved. Not only are they constantly blinded to the Gospel, but, when the Spirit would
draw them, their minds are often filled with strange fears and distorted visions. Their inability
to cast themselves upon Christ is a mystery to themselves, and nothing but the direct illuminating
power of the Spirit in conviction can open their eyes and deliver them from their gross darkness.

Satan has always adapted his methods to the times and conditions. If attention has been gained,
a complete denial of the truth has been made; or, when some recognition of the truth is demanded,
it has been granted on the condition that that which is vital in redemption should be omitted.

This partial recognition of the truth is required by the world to-day, for, while the direct
result of the believer's testimony to the Satanic system has been toward the gathering out
of the Bride, there has been an indirect influence of this testimony upon the world which has
led them to see that all that is good in their own ideals has been already stated in the Bible
and exemplified in the life of Jesus, and that every principle of humanitarian sympathy or
righteous government has been revealed in the Scriptures of truth. Thus there has grown a more
or less popular appreciation of the value of these moral precepts of Scripture and of the example
of Christ. This condition has prevailed to such a degree that any new system or doctrine which
secures a hearing to-day must base its claim upon Scripture, and include, to some extent, the
person and teachings of Jesus. The fact that the world has thus partly acknowledged the value
of the Scriptures is taken by many to be a glorious victory for God; while, on the contrary,
it cannot be proven that fallen humanity is any more inclined to accept God's terms of salvation
than in the generations past.

It is evident that this partial concession of the world to the testimony of God has opened
the way for counterfeit systems of truth, which, according to prophecy, are the last and most
to be dreaded methods in the Satanic warfare. In this connection it must be conceded that Satan
has really granted nothing from his own position, even though he be forced to acknowledge every
principle of truth save that upon which salvation depends. Rather is he advantaged by such
a concession; for the value and delusion of a counterfeit lies in its greatest likeness to
the real. By advocating much truth, in the form of a counterfeit system of truth, Satan can
satisfy all the external religious cravings of the world, and yet accomplish his own end by
withholding that on which man's only hope depends. It is, therefore, no longer safe to blindly
subscribe to that which promises general good, simply because it is good, and is garnished
with the teachings of Scripture; for good has ceased to be all on one side and evil all on
the other. In fact, that which is evil in purpose has gradually appropriated the good until
but one issue distinguishes them. Part-truth-ism has come into terrible and final conflict
with whole-truth-ism, and woe to the soul that does not discern between them. The first, though
externally religious, is of Satan, and leaves its followers in the doom of everlasting banishment
from the presence of God: while the latter is of God, and "has promise for the life that now
is and that which is to come."

It is also noticeable that the term "infidel" has, within a generation, disappeared from common
usage, and that manner of open denial of the truth has been almost wholly abandoned. Yet the
real Church has by no means lost her foes, for they are now even more numerous, subtle, and
terrible than ever before. These present enemies, however, like the unclean birds in the mustard
tree, have taken shelter under her branches, and, like the leaven in the pure meal, they are
penetrating and appropriating her most sacred altars and institutions. These vultures are fed
by a multitude, both in the Church and out, who, in Satanic blindness, are committed to the
furtherance of any project or the acceptance of any theory that promises good to the world
or is apparently based upon Scripture; little realizing that they are often really supporting
the enemy of God.

A counterfeit is Satan's most natural method of resisting the purpose of God, since by it he
can realize to that extent his desire to be like the Most High. Every material is now at hand,
as never before, for the construction of those conditions that are predicted to appear only
in the very end of the age. In II Tim. 3:1-5 one of these predictions may be found: "This know
also, that in the last days perilous times shall come.

Every word of this prophecy is worthy of most careful study in the light of the present tendency
of society. The fifth verse is especially important in connection with the subject of counterfeits
to the truth: "Having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof: from such turn away."
Here it is stated that in these last days forms of godliness shall appear which, however, deny
the power of God; and from these leaders the believer is warned to turn away. I:16). (I Cor.
I:23, 24). Therefore, that which is omitted so carefully from these forms is the salvation
which is in Christ. This is most suggestive, for "there is none other name under heaven given
among men, whereby we must be saved," and it is by salvation alone that any deliverance can
be had from the power of darkness. Without this salvation Satan can still claim all his own.
It is perhaps necessary to add that, judging from all his writings, this salvation, of which
Paul confesses he was not ashamed, was no less an undertaking than regeneration by the Spirit;
and whatever other theories may be advanced, this is the teaching of the Spirit through the
Apostle Paul.

It, therefore, follows that one feature of the last days will be a form of godliness which
carefully denies the power of God in salvation. (I Tim. 4:1, 2). These predicted Satanic systems
are here carefully described. Their offers will be so attractive and externally so religious
that into them will be drawn some "who shall depart from the faith;" they being enticed by
seducing spirits. These attractive systems are not only from Satan, but are themselves "lies
in hypocrisy," being presented by those whose conscience has been seared with a hot iron. No
more illuminating terms could be used than these. A lie covered by hypocrisy means, evidently,
that they are still attempting to be counted among the faithful; and the conscience seared
would indicate that they can distort the testimony of God and carelessly point other souls
to the bottomless pit, without present remorse or regret.

The doctrine of devils is again referred to in Rev. 2:24 as "the deep things of Satan" and
this is Satan's counterfeit of "the deep things of God" which the Spirit reveals to them that
love Him (I Cor. 2:10).

Thus there is predicted for the last days of this age, both a form of godliness which denies
the power of salvation that is in Christ; and a system known as "the deep things of Satan"
or "doctrines of devils," which calls some adherents from the true faith and speaks lies in
hypocrisy. Can there be any doubt that these two Scriptures describe the same thing, since
they also refer to the same time? The lies of one can be but the covered denial of salvation
in the other.

Again, Satan has his assembly or congregational meeting which is his counterfeit of the visible
Church. This assembly is referred to, both in Rev. 2:9 and 3:9, as the "synagogue of Satan;"
an organized assembly being as important for the testimony in the deep things of Satan as it
has been in the things of God.

In Matt. 13 the tares appear among the wheat and their appearance is said to be after the sowing
of the wheat. So, also, the "children of the Wicked one" appear and are often included and
even organized within the forms of the visible Church.

The assembly of Satan, calling itself a part of the visible Church, is to have its ministers
and teachers. Here is a remarkable revelation of the possible extent of the Satanic counterfeit:
"False apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into apostles of Christ" and "ministers
of righteousness;" yet these are shown to be only agents of the great deceiver, Satan, who
is himself transformed into an angel of light. It is evident that the method of this deception
is to imitate the real ministers of Christ. Certainly these false apostles cannot so appear
unless they gather into their message every available "form of godliness" and cover their lies
with the most subtle hypocrisy. Evil will not appear on the outside of these systems; but they
will be announced as "another gospel" or as a larger understanding of the previously accepted
truth, and will be all the more attractive and delusive since they are heralded by those who
claim to be ministers of Christ, who reflect the beauty of an "angel of light," and whose lives
are undoubtedly free from great temptation. It should be noted, however, that these false ministers
do not necessarily know the mission they have. Being unregenerate persons of the Satanic system,
and, so, blinded to the real Gospel, they are sincere; preaching and teaching the best things
their energizing power, the angel of light, is pleased to reveal unto them. Their gospel is
one of human reason, and appeals to human resources. There can be no appreciation of Divine
revelation in them, for they have not come to really know God or His Son, Jesus Christ. As
all this is true, how perilous is the attitude of many who follow attractive ministers and
religious guides only because they claim to be such, and are sincere, and who are not awake
to the one final test of doctrine by which alone the whole covered system of Satanic lies can
be distinguished from the truth of God. In this connection John writes the following warning:
"If there come any unto you, and bring not this doctrine, receive him not into your house,
neither bid him God speed" (II Jno. 10). (II Thes. 2:9, 10). As the whole purpose of God in
the ages has its consummation in the yet future coming of Christ, so Satan, in imitation of
the program of God, has appointed a coming one (II Thes. 2:9), who will be his greatest manifestation,
and upon whom he will bestow his greatest wisdom, power and attractiveness. The study of this
mighty and imposing character can only be suggested in the following pages.

The titles of Satan would indicate that he is attempting, also, in his own person, to counterfeit
the Persons of the blessed Trinity. He appears as "the god of this world" in imitation of God
the Father; he appears as the "prince of the world" in imitation of God the Son; and "the spirit
that now energizeth in the children of disobedience" is his imitation of God the Spirit, who
dwells in and energizes the true believers. Thus his desire to be like the Most High has led
him to a blasphemous attempt to imitate all the separate manifestations of the three Persons
of the Godhead. But, since redemption, which he proposes to hinder, is the work of the second
Person, God the Son, Satan more often appears as a counterfeit of Christ, both in title and
undertaking; and this is the character in which he makes his last and most desperate effort
before he is banished to the pit and his final judgment is begun.

Chapter VIII.

The Man of Sin.

Reference has already been made to a period of tribulation yet to come upon the earth. It is
also described as the culmination of the great apostasy which is predicted for the end of this
age and which is emphasized in the later Epistles of the New Testament. These Epistles not
only recognize a complete apostasy yet to come in this age, but teach that the beginning of
that apostasy was apparent even then at the time when they were written. This teaching of the
apostles finds its natural culmination in the last book of the Bible wherein the exact development
of the apostasy and the conditions to prevail in the tribulation are recorded at length. All
other references, both in the Old and the New Testaments, perfectly agree with this extended
description.

In reference to the time of the tribulation which is thus predicted, Paul states in II Thes.
2:3 "Let no man deceive you by any means: for that day ('the day of the Lord') shall not come,
except there come a falling away first, and that man of Sin be revealed, the son of perdition,"
thus showing that the tribulation precedes the day of the Lord; and in Rev. 19 that day is
seen to be the termination of the tribulation, which is previously described in that book.
This period of tribulation is, therefore, to come before the Kingdom Age, and to be ended by
the glorious appearing of Christ, the King.

Again, the tribulation is to come after the true Church has been removed; for it should be
remembered that the true believers are to be saved out of the "hour of trial which shall come
upon the earth to try those that dwell therein" (Rev. 3:10), (the believer, being a citizen
of the heavenlies is, therefore, not included among those who dwell in the earth). This aspect
of the Lord's return is often misunderstood. (I Thes. 4:16, 17). This phase of his coming is,
and has been, imminent since the promises of his return were given; and it is for this particular
preliminary event that the Church is taught to hope and pray, for it will be the time of her
rapture and blessedness. As has been before stated, the utter dissolution of humanity is latent
in the unregenerated heart (Rom. 3:10-18), and its own tribulation only awaits this removal
of all Divine restraint. It is, therefore, both Scriptural and reasonable to conclude that
tribulation will instantly begin upon the earth after the first aspect of the return of Christ
when He comes for His Church.

Thus it may be seen that this period of unsurpassed trial upon the earth, when the blasphemous
claims of Satan and man are to be proven and God's testimony is to be vindicated, is bounded
by the two events in the Second Coming of Christ: when He comes for His saints (I Thes. 4:16,
17), to gather to Himself His heavenly people, and when He comes with His saints (Rev. 19:11-21)
to be the complete fulfillment of all the covenants of God with His earthly people.

There are three distinct periods of time here indicated. First: Seventy weeks between the time
of the vision, and the age of "everlasting righteousness" and anointing of the most Holy; or,
from the time of the vision, to the earthly kingdom of Christ, which is yet future. Second:
Sixty-nine weeks; beginning to reckon from the same time, or from the command of the King of
Babylon to restore Jerusalem, and continuing unto the death of Christ, which is referred to
as the "cutting off of the Messiah." And lastly: One week, for the overspreading of abomination
and that which is determined to be poured upon the desolate.

History fortunately interprets the time here indicated: for, from the command of the King to
rebuild Jerusalem, to the death of Christ was 483 years, or sixty-nine weeks of seven years
each. This leaves but the one additional week of the seventy before the bringing in of the
everlasting righteousness. That one week is here described as the time of most terrible desolation
and overspreading of abomination, when the people are under a covenant with another prince.
This present age is as a parenthesis in Jewish history and, as no account is made of it in
these reckonings, the last unfulfilled week (seven years) of the seventy, before the kingdom
is established upon the earth, must be the time between the gathering out of the Church--an
event which completes the purpose of this parenthetical age--and the final bringing in of the
kingdom. It should be noticed that this period cannot be confused easily with any other, for
it is referred to as the time more terrible than any other that has ever been, or ever will
be (Dan. 12:1; Joel 2:2; Matt. 24:21, 22).

Reference has been made at length to the tribulation period in order to make clear the exact
conditions in which the Man of Sin is to appear; for this mighty world-ruler makes his advent
in those days of earth's darkness and gloom when all the light of God has been withdrawn, and
the world is left in its own helpless confusion. He appears in the tribulation as the agent
of Satan after that mighty head of the Satanic system has been cast out of heaven into the
earth (Rev. 12:7-12). The time of the destruction of the Man of Sin is also revealed in that
it is mentioned as one of the events in the glorious coming of Christ (Dan. 2:44; 7:11-14;
II Thes. 2:8; Rev. 19:20). He, therefore, appears as the culmination of the Satanic effort,
and a careful study of his person and character will reveal the fact that he is the most stupendous
work of Satan in his enmity against God.

In connection with the time of the Man of Sin, it is also to be noted that the believer is
not directly warned against his person, but is, rather, warned against the conditions that
are to prevail as a preparation for his coming. This is due to the fact that the true believers
are to be gathered to their Lord before that "Wicked one" appears, and they are, therefore,
only in danger of being influenced by that which precedes and prepares for his coming. His
description is set forth at length only in such passages as deal with the whole and final development
of the age.

It should also be remembered that the description of this person, like that of the person and
work of Satan, is from the standpoint of the holiness of God; and that which the world will
hail as its glorious ideal of perfection is, in God's sight, the personification of rebelliousness,
blasphemy, and treason.

The order of the governments and rulers of the world in this Gentile age is revealed to Daniel
in visions which are recorded and interpreted in the book of Daniel. In these visions the Man
of Sin appears as the "little horn" of Dan. 7 and is the last and most God-dishonoring world-ruler.
He also later appears as the "desolator" of Dan. 9:27; the "willful King" of Dan. 11:36; the
"abomination of desolation" of Matt. 24:15; the "Man of Sin" of II Thes. 2:4-8; the rider on
the white horse of Rev. 6:2; and the first Beast of Rev. 13. His identity is certain, even
though he appears under various figures and titles; for he, like Satan, is so unique in his
character, time, and undertakings, that he cannot be confused easily with any other.

In Daniel 2 the order of the kingdoms is set forth by the figure of the great image which,
at the last, is suddenly and violently shattered by the "stone cut from the mountain without
hands": which Stone is Christ, the Corner Stone; and the Stone which the builders rejected.
The feet and toes of this image are said to be the last manifestation of human government,
and it is this part of the image that is violently shattered by the Stone. Of this termination
of earthly rule it is recorded in Dan.

From this chapter it may be seen that the setting up of the Messianic Kingdom is to be both
sudden and destructive to all human governments, and that it is in no way the result of an
age of development and progressive improvement.

In Dan. 7 the Man of Sin appears, as has been stated, as the "little horn" among ten horns;
which, like the ten toes of the great image, indicate the extreme end of human authority and
power. In this vision the latter end of the kingdoms of the earth is seen to culminate in the
one most daring ruler, the "little horn", who has "a mouth speaking great things" and whose
look is more imposing than all others; and he it is who makes war with the saints and prevails
over them until the coming of the Ancient of days. The inspired interpretation of the vision
is given in Dan.

In Dan. 11 the reign of the Man of Sin, the willful king, is prophesied in detail; and the
fact is stated that the reign and the blasphemous attitude of this last great ruler are both
in the purpose of God. Thus shall he do in the most strong holds with a strange god, whom he
shall acknowledge and increase with glory: and he shall cause them to rule over many, and shall
divide the land for gain." This last verse is more clearly translated "and he will practice
in the strongholds of fortresses with a strange god; whoso acknowledgeth him will be increased
with glory; and he shall cause them to rule over the many, and shall divide the land to them
for a reward" (Dan. 11:36-39).

Beside the collossal disregard for God, this passage presents several important revelations.
First: The expression "the God of his fathers" would seem to indicate that the Man of Sin would
come from a lineage of Christians. Second: His disregard for the desire of women is evidence
of his hatred of the true Messiah; for this reference is probably to the desire of every Jewish
woman to be the mother of Messiah. Third: Those who acknowledge the strange god, (Satan), whom
he honors, will be prospered, and the land will be divided unto them and he will give them
authority and glory.

In the New Testament the Man of Sin is described as "the one who comes in his own name," whom
men will receive (Jno. 5:43); "that man of sin," "the son of perdition" (II Thes. 2:3); "that
Wicked one" (II Thes. 2:8); and the "beast" (Rev. 13:1), and to him Satan gives all the power
and glory he offered to Christ (Lu. 4:5, 6). Of the many references to him, two passages deal
with him at length. In the first (II Thes. 2:1-10), his coming is mentioned as directly following
the removal of God's present restraint from the earth; and in the second (Rev. 13:1-8), as
has been shown, his coming is said to directly follow the casting of Satan from heaven into
the earth (Rev. 12:7-12), and continues until the glorious appearing of Christ, which is described
in Rev. 19 and 20.

The former passage (II Thes.

In this passage it is predicted of this mighty person that he will assume to be very God, "sitting
in the temple as God," and winning the worship of the multitude by his miraculous power, signs,
and lying wonders; deceiving all who perish, and who would not receive the love of the truth
that they might be saved.

The first, and, it would seem, most important thing that is stated of this being in this Scripture
is that one of his heads was, as it were, wounded to death, and his deadly wound was healed.
Some have claimed this to be a reference to a previous political defeat followed by reinstatement
to power. The expression is, however, most suggestive and significant as an attempt on the
part of Satan to imitate, in the Man of Sin, that which was the supreme miracle of the Christ--His
death and resurrection. The effort is plainly effective; more so than a mere shifting of political
fortune could possibly be; for the statement follows: "All the world wondered after the beast
who had received the deadly wound and yet lived." After they wondered, they worshipped. First
they worshipped Satan, who performed the mighty miracle; and then they worshipped the beast,
saying, "Who is like unto the beast? who is able to make war with him?" The terrible blasphemy
of the Man of Sin has been emphasized in all Scripture references to him, and is here still
more vividly pictured.

The time he is to continue is said to be forty and two months, which would be one-half the
tribulation period; and this statement is probably not at all figurative. By his overwhelming
supernatural power and wisdom he gains authority over every living thing in the Satanic system,
excepting those recorded in the Lamb's book of life. These are not brought under his governing
power.

The latter part of the chapter presents still another mighty person, who is also called a "beast,"
but later appears as the false prophet (Rev. 19:20); and who exercises all the power of the
first beast, and receives his power from the dragon, Satan. Much is said of this second "beast,"
but his mission is in no way to attract attention to himself. He co-operates in gaining world-wide
worship and authority for the first beast, whose deadly wound was healed. The second beast
seems to deal directly with the people and by his mighty signs and miracles, as well as by
his authority, he compels loyalty to the first beast. Fire is called down from heaven; and
a dumb idol is made to speak and live. He is able to establish a union of all people in trade,
imposing a death penalty upon them. And by all these means he furthers the interests of the
first beast.

There is a deep suggestion, in the person of this second beast, of a counterfeit of the Holy
Spirit of God. He who came not to speak of Himself, but to glorify Christ and to unite all
believers; leading them in worship and praise. This second beast is probably identical with
"Anti-christ," who appears under that title only in the writings of John, and who is there
seen as the consummation of a long succession of false religious teachers who have denied the
Christ and His sacrificial work.

When the testimony of all Scripture upon the Man of Sin is considered, he is seen to be a person
whose superhuman power is plainly ascribed to Satan. He appears upon the scene, after the removal
of the heavenly people and during the great tribulation, as the climax of all Satanic exaltation
and opposition to God. He is the last and greatest of earthly rulers, and, from his position
of unsurpassed influence, speaks great words and manifests great wisdom. He is externally religious,
and the promoter of great righteous projects and principles which in God's sight are only hypocrisy
and blasphemy because of the subtle Christ-denying motive which prompts it all. His hold upon
the public mind is by a process which is natural. By such supernatural works his assumption
to be very God is accepted, and he becomes the world's ideal of all that is supreme. The people
are said to first marvel and wonder; then to worship at his feet; and at last, in mad devotion,
they challenge the universe to produce his equal--"Who is like the beast?" they cry. He has
been wounded to death and yet lives; he performs as great miracles as the world has ever seen;
his teachings are based upon Scripture; and he must, therefore, be God manifest in the flesh.
His wisdom, beauty and majesty are a seeming warrant for every element of adoration.

Thus the Man of Sin will appear as the culmination of all the counterfeit methods of Satan;
which method had its beginnings in the last days of the age, even before the calling away of
the true Church, the Body of Christ. The subtle doctrines of devils will be adopted as creeds
in assemblies and so called churches, and these deep things, with the Satanic ambition for
moral improvement, will be voiced by ordained ministers who appear as apostles of Christ and
ministers of righteousness. Yet in God's sight it is all a deep lie and hypocrisy, for they
are distorting His truth and subtly denying His redemption.

All this, as has been stated, is but the Satanic preparation of humanity that they may wholly
acknowledge him as their god, and that he may himself become like the Most High. This program
is permitted in the purpose of God, for "that that is determined shall be done" (Dan. II:36).
It will be only for a moment; for the resistless coming of the "Ancient of Days" will unveil
all this deception, banish the enemies, and bring in His own long-predicted and glorious reign
of everlasting blessedness upon the earth.

Chapter IX.

The Fatal Omission.

To some extent it has been necessary to anticipate the subject of this chapter in dealing with
those counterfeits which are predicted for the last days, when there will be found a "form
of godliness, denying the power thereof," and also the deep "doctrines of devils" which are
"lies in hypocrisy." This chapter deals with that which is so vital in the true faith, and
which is to be so carefully omitted in the false; that which makes the true so potent, and
without which the false becomes an immeasurable deception. Everything depends upon this one
point of distinction; for, according to prophecy, it is the only difference that is finally
to exist between the false and the true. The issue is, therefore, as important as life itself.

It has already been seen that the method of counterfeiting, if successful, will require Satan
to appropriate and incorporate in his false systems every available principle of the true;
for the deception of the counterfeit depends wholly upon its likeness to the real. Herein is
revealed the reason for calling that a lie or deception which is externally so like the truth.
Certainly there could be no greater pitfall for souls than a system which seems to be the truth
of God, and yet robs its followers of any basis for a true hope, and it will be found that
the most terrible condemnation of Scripture is uttered against such systems and their promoters.

In seeking to discover the actual point of difference between the false and the true, it will
be well, first, to consider the present perverted relation which exists between the Creator
and the fallen human creature; for herein is revealed the necessity of that which God proposes
to accomplish by redemption.

Two important points in Satan's doctrine were announced by him in the Garden of Eden when he
first approached the woman, and these two declarations kave been an important part of the world's
creeds throughout the history of man. The first was a bold denial of a positive statement of
God, when Satan said: "Ye shall not surely die." Whether Satan intended here simply to deny
the truth of God's statement, or whether he overestimated his own resources and proposed to
shield them from their God-appointed doom, is not clear. Certainly the latter view is in keeping
with Satan's original purpose, as well as with his evident sincerity. It is quite reasonable
to conclude that, if he could be so misguided as to attempt to be like the Most High, he would
willingly have undertaken to protect man from judgment which followed as a result of loyalty
to himself. Satan is striving, at any rate, to direct the lives of those who are under his
power into a degree of self development that will be a substitute for the revealed purpose
of God for men.

The second announcement of Satan assured the woman that they would, by this independent action,
"be as God;" and this, so far from promising death, seemed to them the immediate realization
of the highest human ideal. It was undoubtedly the original purpose of God in creation that
humanity should eventually become like Himself. By what process of development this was to
have been accomplished, had not sin entered, has not been revealed. It is enough to know that
even after man had fallen from his high estate through sin, this Divine purpose was not abandoned,
though the problems involved were immeasurably increased: and now, through the unsearchable
riches of His grace, the realization of that which surpasses all human dreams has been made
possible, even to fallen and polluted man.

The consummation of the transforming work of God is thus described: "For whom He did foreknow,
He did also predestinate to be conformed to the image of His Son" (Rom. 8:29). "Beloved, now
are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be: but we know that, when
He shall appear, we shall be like Him; for we shall see Him as He is" (I Jno. 3:2). "When Christ,
who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with Him in glory" (Col. 3:4). (Phil.
3:20, 21 R.V.).

It is natural that Satan should suggest to humanity that which had been the object of his own
unholy ambition; and especially is it natural, since by such a separation of humanity from
its God, he could claim that authority over them, and secure that worship from them, which
he so much craved.

There are, then, at least two distinct methods proposed for the uplifting of humanity, and
these are brought into sharp contrast; for one is of Satan, and the other is of God. Since
both these methods claim to aim at the same end--though one ideal is not worthy to be compared
with the other--the method, alone, forms the first point for discussion.

Under the Satanic control, man has always been strangely influenced in the matter of his relation
to his Creator. He, too, has been willing to assume a hopeless position of independence toward
God; and, under that abnormal relation, he has gone out alone to grope his way; blindly seeking
to build his own character, and by education and cultivation to improve his natural heart,
which God has pronounced humanly incurable. He has also bent his inventive skill to the development
of means by which God-imposed labor may be avoided; and much of his selfish greed springs from
a desire to purchase a substitute who shall bear for him the discomfort of a sweating brow.
"God is not in all his thoughts;" nor has he any disposition to claim the help of God upon
the terms upon which it is offered. The Satanic method for life prompts him to become a god
by a process of self-help and development of the finite resources.

It is very possible and natural to introduce much of religious form into the world system of
self-help; for there is a great field for religious exercise for the one who is attempting
to make himself Godlike, and there is endless material for supplication and prayer that all
available assistance may be secured to aid one in that humanly impossible task. A devout spirit
is, therefore, a natural part of the Satanic doctrine, and the predicted "forms of godliness"
will naturally appear.

There is a vast difference between an individual supplicating God to save him: and one supplicating
God to help him save himself. The latter is a natural part of the Satanic plan and has no promise
of Divine favor upon it. All such religious exercise, though full of outward forms and deep
sincerity, leaves its moral aspirants doomed, alike with the most degraded, to as everlasting
separation and banishment from the presence of God: "which things have indeed a show of wisdom
in will worship, and humility, and severity to the body; but are not of any value against the
indulgence of the flesh" (Col. 2:23 R.V.). Such prayer and religious practice do not really
place the saving work in the hands of God, but mockingly ask Him to give His sanction and assistance
to that which wholly dishonors and really disregards Him, and which is also both unreasonable
and impossible.

Though the process by which unfallen man would have reached a higher development has not been
revealed, it is certain that he would have been then, as now, wholly dependent upon the Creator.
Man's present independence toward God is the blindest delusion of the fallen nature; for complete
independence cannot even be assumed in the least of all temporal things: how much less is it
possible in that which is spiritual!

Again, the self-saving principle is utter folly, since God must demand a quality which no human
can present. God's requirement is not unreasonable, however, for He also proposes to bestow,
in grace, all He ever demands. The absolute holiness of God demands no less than holiness in
all who are acceptable to Him; yet He has never mocked man by asking him to make himself acceptable,
or even to attempt to do it by Divine help. True salvation is wholly a work of God. It is said
to be both a finished work and a gift, and, therefore, it lays no obligation upon the saved
one to complete it himself, or to make after payments of service for it; though the saved one
is called upon to serve from another and more glorious motive.

The Divine terms of obtainment into Godlikeness are clearly stated in the Scriptures; but the
hopeless estimate God has placed upon human nature at its best, and the logical necessity that
man shall receive, as a gift, all that he has, and be forever a debtor to the Divine giver,--these
things have always been rejected by self-sufficient and Satan-inspired humanity. These terms
are the only possible or reasonable relations that could rightfully exist between fallen humanity
and its Creator. Here Satan has blinded the minds of the lost lest they should believe, and
he has made that which is reasonable and natural seem to be unreasonable and unnatural. They
are unable to abandon their Satan-inspired sense of self-sufficiency and independence of God
and receive from Him, as a gift, every possession commendable in His sight.

The controversy between Satan-ruled man and God is one of method; whether it shall be one of
self-righteousness and character building: or one of bestowed righteousness and character by
the fruit of the Spirit. Will man try to save himself: or humbly submit to being saved by Another?
Will he try to conform himself to what little he knows to be good and true: or will he be transformed
by the power of God into that which is no less than the image of Christ? Will he present the
sacrifice of a sincere effort to be moral and religious: or accept the God-provided sacrifice
for all sin, in the shed blood of Christ? Will he try to establish himself before God on the
ground of his own works: or rest in the finished work of Christ for him? Will he try to improve
his fallen nature: or partake of the Divine nature and become a Son of God by the power of
God, through faith in Christ Jesus?

One method, it may be seen, depends wholly upon self for its realization; promises glory to
man alone; and has its origin at that unknown time when Satan proposed in his heart to become
like the Most High. The other method is dependent upon God alone, and, therefore, demands an
attitude of faith toward him for its realization. It issues in glory to the Creator, Who alone
is worthy to be praised. The latter, in contrast with Satan's method, had its origin in the
purpose of God, which He purposed before the foundation of the world. Therein, transcendent
blessings are offered; stores of grace are unfolded; and the omnipotent power of God is seen
working for the transformation of His human creatures. These two methods are confused only
because they seem to aim at the same general result. In reality their results, like their methods,
are not only incomparable, but they are as far removed from each other as God's ways are higher
than man's ways.

The revelation of God in regard to salvation might have been limited to the fact that He, rather
than man, was to accomplish the work; and while much that is involved in the mighty undertaking
of redemption has not been, and probably cannot be, reduced to the level of human understanding,
He saw fit to reveal much that was necessary, on both the Godward and the manward side, in
providing this way of salvation. No human conception of the atonement is complete, yet, as
the all-sufficient sacrificial death of Christ is clearly stated in Scripture, its value, though
unanalyzed, may be appropriated; for man is not saved by what he comprehends or understands,
but his salvation is made possible by his attitude of willingness and expectation toward the
transforming power of God.

In determining the exact point of the truth that is to be omitted from the Satanic counterfeit,
it is important to distinguish between the Person and work of Christ. In the one is included
His teachings and example, both in His life and death: in the other is included His substitutionary,
sacrificial, and atoning death for the sin of the world. There is no controversy as to the
value of the teachings and example of Jesus; but the wisdom of this world is displayed in ever-increasing
antagonism against the blood of the Cross. This enmity has never been founded on the Word of
God, for Scripture does not deny itself. The opposition appeals to pride and human reason,
and dares to challenge the plain statements of Scripture on this particular point. Very much
is thus omitted; for all the meaning of sacrifice in the Old Testament and all the promises
of redemption in the New Testament, are inseparably related to the blood of the Cross. It may
be to the Jew a stumbling block, and to the Greek foolishness; yet to those who are called,
both Jews and Greeks, "it is the power of God and the wisdom of God."

In Ephesians, the eternal purpose of God is said to be the complete perfection of souls: "According
as He hath chosen us in Him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and
without blame before Him in love" (1:4). And that transformation is also said to be by the
blood of Christ: "In whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according
to the riches of His grace" (1:7). In like manner the object of this transformation is said
to be that the Church may be the present and eternal manifestation of the wisdom, love and
power of God: "To the intent that now unto the principalities and powers in heavenly places
might be known by the church the manifold wisdom of God" (3:10). (2:7). (1:19, 20).

There is also a strong contrast of figures used in the Old Testament which accurately emphasizes
the mighty power of the Creator in the regeneration of a soul. 53:1, where the substitutionary
sacrifice of Christ is referred to, it is spoken of as the effort of the Creator's arm: "Who
hath believed our report? and to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed?" The suggestion here
given, that the creation of a universe is the work of His fingers, and the regeneration of
souls is the work of His mighty arm, is not overdrawn; for the price of redemption cannot be
measured by corruptible things, such as gold and silver: but is purchased at the price of the
precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot (I Pet. 1:19).

The Scriptures abound in statements that regeneration, and the whole transforming work of redemption,
are accomplished on the ground of the sacrificial blood of the Cross; and if these statements
of Scripture are rejected, the discussion never can be one of interpretation of Scripture,
but becomes a question of the authority of the testimony of the Bible. 53:4-6). "Behold the
Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world" (Jno. 1129). (Rom. 5:8, 9). (II Cor. 5:21).
(Gal. 1:4). For by one offering He hath perfected forever them that are sanctified" (Heb. 10:11-14).
(I Pet. 2:24). (I Pet. 3:18). "And He is the propitiation for our sins: and not for ours only,
but also for the sins of the whole world" (I Jno. 2:2).

From the foregoing passages it may be seen that, according to the Scriptures, the stupendous
transformation of regeneration is not only the greatest Divine undertaking, but is directly
accomplished by the sacrificial death and shed blood of Christ, and is sealed in security by
the Holy Spirit of promise.

The sacrificial death of Christ presents the only gateway for fallen man from the power and
final doom of Satan to the glory and transcendent light of God; and there is nothing strange
in the Satan-inspired "offence of the Cross" which is often garnished with culture, worldly
wisdom, and religious forms. (Phil. 3:18). These were evidently recognized leaders in the Christian
fellowship, who were undoubtedly ardent admirers of the Person of Jesus, as revealed in His
earthly life and example: yet Paul does not hesitate to mention his own tears at the fatal
omission in their preaching; for they were enemies of the Cross of Christ.

Again, it is predicted in II Pet. Here again the denial is against the purchase or redeeming
work of Christ rather than His Person or character. They are offended at the Lord who bought
them, though they may be devoted to the Lord who taught them. These Satanic agents are here,
as before, described as those who seem to be teachers in the true faith, yet they bring in
damnable heresies, in all covered subtlety, which crystallizes in a denial of the redemption
that is in Christ. Being only blinded unregenerate men, they may suppose themselves to be ministers
of righteousness and apostles of Christ; their humanitarian dreams may inspire tireless effort
and zeal; their doctrine may become world-wide in its influence; and they may drive their mighty
ecclesiastical machinery by the injunctions of Scripture: yet if the curtain could be lifted,
their "angel of light" would be found to be Satan; working through them to resist the purpose
of God; and themselves the ministers of Satan; speaking lies in hypocrisy; having their conscience
seared as with a hot iron, daring in their exalted position to devitalize the Gospel of its
power unto salvation, and dragging immortal souls after them into hell.

It is not strange that there is resentment against the mystery of the Cross which does not
exist against any other inexplicable fact in the world. It is not strange that the ministers
of Satan, appearing as the apostles of Christ and ministers of righteousness, should fortify
their lies and hypocrisies by contending for every phase of revealed truth; grounding their
authority so positively in the Scriptures of truth: yet subtly omitting, or violently denying,
the one and only point upon which the interests of God and Satan divide. It is not strange
that there is a wide call for a "restatement of the truth," which usually proposes to omit
the new birth and substitute self-effort to be good, and character building, in its place.
It is not strange that the wise and cultured of this world feel their aesthetic natures shocked
by the blood of the Cross, yet entertain no sense of their own abhorrent pollution in the sight
of the infinitely holy One. It is not strange that the world assumes to have advanced beyond
that which is repeatedly said to be the manifestation of the wisdom of God; branding as bigots,
insincere, or ignorant, all who still hold to the whole testimony of God. It is not strange
that the atonement by blood is omitted, for it is Satan's hour and the power of darkness, and
the true child of God must patiently bear the ever-increasing reproaches of his crucified Lord,
until the glory dawns and the shadows flee away.

Chapter X

Modern Devices.

It has been the privilege and duty of the Church throughout her history to be looking for the
return of the One to whom she has been espoused. Had her eyes never wandered from that expectant
gaze, she would have been saved much sorrow and shame at His coming, for she has lost her Scriptural
character and much of her witnessing power whenever she has said "My Lord delayeth his coming."
It is then that she has fallen to beating the manservants and the maidservants, and has become
drunken with the wine of this world.

True devotion to Christ must naturally issue in a deep desire to be with Him and to see Him
face to face; and though it is quite possible to have been misled or untaught in regard to
the conditions of His coming, the contemplation of such a promise from Him can but kindle a
glowing hope in a truly devoted heart. It is a direct contradiction to claim supreme affection
for Him, and yet be careless of His promised return, or wholly contented while separated from
Him. The world, that cannot comprehend such devotion to Christ, will easily chide the believer,
and denounce him for what they now call his "other worldness" when his affections are set on
things above, "where Christ sitteth at the right hand of God," and when his heart rejoices
in the certain hope that "when Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear
with Him in glory."

It was necessary for Satan to rob the Church, to a great extent, of her "blessed hope" of Christ's
return, before he could attract attention to his own attempts at world improvement, and establish
his own authority as ruler over this age. Expectation along the God-appointed lines must be
abandoned, for the most part, before humanity can be federated, and religious institutions
be made to co-operate in the Satanic program.

This vital key-truth of the imminent return of Christ was, therefore, first discredited, and
then followed by an attack upon the deity of the Son of God and His sacrificial death; which
attack is ever increasing, and must increase to the very end. The body of truth concerning
the Lord's return is so extensive that there have always been some humble and devout souls
who have dared to believe His promises, and thus the real Church, to some extent, her watch
has been keeping.

The mighty tool in Satan's hands for the destroying of the hope of Christ's coming has been
a simple one: zealous souls have been found who, ignoring the statements of Scripture, would
attempt to fix the day of His coming. Then, as their prophecy failed, the world and many in
the Church have laughed them to scorn. (II Pet. 3:3, 4). Thus Satan's authority is being established.

The exact time of Christ's return has not been revealed; nor will it be announced by a prophet.
Nevertheless, the "children of light and the children of the day" "are not in darkness that
that day should overtake them as a thief" (I Thes. 5:4,5). It is their privilege to rejoice
in every promise of His coming, and to recognize every new indication of His nearness, as eagerly
as the betrothed awaits her beloved. The true believer's glory, as well as his union with loved
ones in Christ, is imminent, and by faith he can look beyond the days of the earth's greatest
anguish, and, seeing the triumph of all blessedness, he can rejoice in the hope of His Lord's
coming, and be praying, "Even so, come, Lord Jesus."

It is, therefore, impossible to know how much of time yet remains for the gathering out of
the Bride and the development of Satan's rule; yet it is evident that within the last generation
the exact fulfillment of those things which are predicted for the last days has begun, and
is even now developing faster than the mind can comprehend.

Not all the signs of the times have a place in these pages, but only such as are directly connected
with the working of Satan.

Since the blood redemption of the Cross is the central truth and value of the true faith, it
being the "power of God unto salvation" (Rom. 1:16; I Cor. 1:23, 24), any counterfeit system
of doctrine which would omit this essential, must force some secondary truth into the place
of prominence. Any of the great Scriptural subjects which are of universal interest to humanity,
such as physical health, immortality, morality, or religious forms, may be substituted in the
false systems, for that which is vital. And while those subjects are all found in their proper
relations and importance in the true faith, the fact that people are universally inclined to
give attention to them furnishes an opportunity for Satan to make a strong appeal to humanity
through them; using these subjects as central truths in his false and counterfeit systems.
Many are easily led to fix their attention upon the secondary things, and to neglect wholly
the one primary thing; especially is this true since the secondary things are tangible and
seen: while the one essential thing is spiritual and unseen; and Satan has blinded their eyes
toward that which is of eternal value.

A system of doctrine may, then, be formed which includes every truth of Scripture save one;
exalting the Person of Christ, but not His atoning work, and emphasizing some secondary truth
as its central value. This system will be readily accepted by blinded humanity, though the
real power of God unto salvation has been carefully withdrawn.

Naturally it would be supposed that such Satan-inspired systems would have no value or power,
since there could be no Divine favor upon them. Such a supposition would be possible only because
of the prevailing misunderstanding as to the real power of Satan. If the description given
of him in Scripture is accepted, he will be seen to be possessed with miraculous power; able
to perform such marvels that the whole world is led to wonder and then to worship. He is free
also to bestow this miraculous power upon others (Rev. 13:2). So it is no marvel if his ministers,
who appear as the ministers of righteousness, are able to exert superhuman power when it is
directly in the interest of the Satanic projects.

The great power of Satan has doubtless been active along these lines during all the ages past;
for it is impossible that humanity should have worshipped other gods blindly without some recompense,
and it is Satan himself who has been thus worshipped (Lev. 17:7; II Chron. 11:15; Rev. 9:20).

It is not final evidence, therefore, that a system of doctrine is of God simply because there
are accompanying manifestations of superhuman power; nor is it final evidence that the Almighty
has responded, simply because any form of supplication has been answered. The Divine movements
are, of necessity, limited by the laws of His own holiness, and access into His presence is
by the blood of Jesus alone; by a new and living Way which was consecrated for us through His
flesh (Heb. 10:19, 20). Assuming to come before God in prayer, but ignoring this truth, is
but to insult, with pollution, Him who is infinitely Holy and pure. Satan, who is aspiring
to the place of the Almighty, may answer the prayer of his own subjects, even though that prayer
is blindly addressed to the Supreme Being. Surely the Satan-ruled world does not come before
God by the blood of Jesus.

Though false systems of doctrine have always existed, counterfeits in hypocrisy are a distinct
characteristic of the last days of the present age. And it is a most significant fact that
within the last generation such systems have appeared and are rapidly multiplying: systems
that borrow every phase of the true faith, but one, and are conspicuous in that they emphasize
some secondary truth with what seems, at times, to be miraculous power. Multitudes are being
won to these creeds, both because of their apparent religious aspect, and by the actual results
they accomplish.

There is probably no subject of more universal interest than that of physical health; and but
recently "Christian Science" has appeared, which chiefly emphasizes physical health. While
it gathers into itself some elements that are foreign both to Christianity and to Science,
and appropriates much from the field of psychology, it assumes to be an infallible interpretation
of Scripture, and makes Jesus its highest exponent and teacher. Yet it positively denies even
the reality of sin and the need of Christ's atoning sacrifice. Its followers are won and held
by these religious claims, and by the actual physical and mental transformations that are secured.
Nothing but ignorance will attempt to deny that, to some extent, its claims are real. That
it has assemblies, ministers, and mysteries deep and profound, and that it is able to demonstrate
its claims of physical transformation, does not lift it above the level of Satan's power. That
it denies even the need of the blood of the Cross, separates it, in spite of its claims, from
the God of the Scriptures, and brands it with every characteristic of Satan's counterfeit.

Another subject, already mentioned, which is of common interest to humanity, is immortality.
How persistently man has sought to see beyond the veil! And yet how little of fact has been
discovered, beyond that which it has pleased God to reveal in His Word! How strong is the desire
of the heart to follow the departed into the great unseen! And how subtle is "Spiritism" in
its election of a phase of the immortality question as its bait to beguile sorrow-crushed souls
into a disregard of their only hope in the blood of Christ.

This system has existed from the earliest ages and has the unqualified condemnation of Scripture;
yet in the last half-century it has taken new interest and dignity to itself under the modern
title of "Psychical Research." With boldest assumption it claims to be the only safe exponent
of truth, and to be working in the interests of science; changing science being accepted as
more trustworthy than revelation. It offers as final evidence for its assumptions, what are
represented to be the statements of deceased people.

Less is made of the Scriptures in this system: yet here, as might be expected, there is violent
opposition to the doctrine of Regeneration.

It cannot possibly be denied that there is an intelligent response to the human appeal from
the Unseen; and messages are being received and mysterious acts are being performed with increasing
frequency. It cannot, however, be proven that this response is from the spirit of the person
named, for a lying spirit could easily know enough of any person's life to represent him in
every detail. That the whole system could be of Satan is evident, and since it denies man's
only hope of redemption, it is no part of the real truth of God. It, too, bears all the marks
of the workings of Satan.

Another system of thought called "New," but which is as old as human philosophy, appropriates
every phase of metaphysical belief. The central idea of the "New Thought" is the complete development
of man,--body, soul, and spirit. Every possible human power is utilized; there is recognition
of the Creator; the Word of God is appropriated in convenient texts; and Christ is claimed
by its followers to be the complete example and embodiment of all their ideals. Newly stated
theories of psychology are included in this system, and the whole teaching stands as the embodiment
of all the ideals of the one who first suggested to humanity that they, by their own efforts,
become as God. The system wholly denies Scriptural regeneration, both as to its necessity and
as a fact; and is a veritable worship of self, as predicted for the last days (II Tim. 3:2).
It substitutes the development of the will as a power for victory in the life, in place of
the God-provided victory over sin by the Spirit. Its followers seem to be utterly blind to
the plainest truths of the Scriptures, and are marvelling at what they suppose to be a discovery;
when, perchance, they are able to comprehend some secondary truth of the Word of God. This
system, like "Christian Science," numbers its followers by the hundreds of thousands. They
support many periodicals, and their teachings are read and accepted throughout the world.

In all these doctrines there is included much of the precious truth of God, but this is employed
only as a bait to cover the relentless hook of Satan, by which he seeks to draw human souls
away from God and into perdition. Not one positive word is said of the future state of man,
or of his fitness to meet his God, and any belief in immortality is borrowed from the revelation
of God; for the systems themselves are given over to distracting and diverting man from the
thought of his need of a Divinely wrought preparation for eternity. It is commonly stated by
the followers of these systems that it is of little importance what one believes, for it is
the life that counts. Thus the great and necessary fact that any true character as well as
any eternal blessedness depends upon what one believes, rather than on the life, is discredited.

These systems are mentioned only as examples of the almost innumerable doctrines that are sweeping
the world to-day. They often reappear under new and misleading titles. The truth they acknowledge,
and many forces they employ, are God's gracious provision for His saints; yet when these truths
and forces are used alone, where the real purpose of God is skillfully omitted, they become
only the hypocrisy that covers and garnishes a lie.

Again, many are deluded by the emphasis upon the mere outward forms of the visible Church.
When these forms are analyzed, they appear to represent a church ministered to by a recognized
ordained minister who depends upon his own personality for his power; and who preaches ethics
and morality drawn from Scripture texts and other ethical writings. Prayers are offered, imploring
the Almighty to aid humanity in its attempts to commend itself to Him by a more or less faithful
practice of religion. The pleasures of music as an art are provided at fabulous cost, in place
of the praise that is inspired by the Spirit of God. Social gatherings are held, to take the
place of the unity of the Spirit and the love of the brethren. Humanitarian appeals for the
betterment of the world are made, in place of the evangelical regeneration by the Cross; and
not one reference to the real Gospel is made from one year to the next, unless it be in a covered
denial. The sleeping congregations are seemingly satisfied with a mockery of the truth, and
are content with a doctrine that proposes to educate souls into hell, and which encourages
them to make a few efforts toward self-development while on their certain road to perdition.
It is no longer good form in society to be without some church relations, yet the one and only
true basis for salvation may never have been comprehended or accepted by a multitude of these
members. Truly the god of this world is accomplishing his end, and his blinded followers are
coming to be numbered with the faithful. The evil birds are flocking to the mustard tree, and
the corrupting leaven is permeating the measures of meal.

The last development of the earth history of the visible Church is predicted to be a condition
in which the Church is saying, "I am rich, and increased in goods, and have need of nothing."
(Rev. 3:17-20). If Scripture language and figure mean anything, this is a description of an
unregenerate Church over which the Lord is pleading. It is from this Church that He has withdrawn;
and is seen outside, standing and knocking. His hope is not centered upon reforming the whole
mass of professing members; for his offer is to the individual "any man" with whom He will
then have personal communion and fellowship.

Sad is the spectacle of these churches; meeting week after week to be beguiled by the philosophy
of men, and raising no voice in protest against the denial of their only foundation as a church,
and of their only hope for time and eternity! Far more honorable were the infidels of the past
generation than these ministers. They were wholly outside the Church. But now, behold the inconsistency!
Men who are covered by the vesture of the Church, ministering its sacraments, and supported
by its benevolence, are making an open attack upon that wisdom of God which made Christ Jesus
the only ground for all righteousness, sanctification, and redemption. The predictions for
the last days are thus not only being fulfilled by false systems and doctrines, but they are
found in the visible Church itself. (II Tim. 4:3, 4).

Great religious activities are possible without coming into complications with saving faith.
It is possible to be more concerned over the untimely death of one hundred thousand drunkards
than with the Christ-less death of twenty million human beings; or to be wholly concerned with
the educational and physical needs of the heathen, and to neglect their greatest need in regeneration.
Thus Satan may gain his own ends, even through some so-called missionary undertakings, for
in this manner he can beguile untaught saints to limit their work to the lines of his highest
ideals. It is possible to fight against sin and not present the Saviour; or to urge the highest
Scriptural ideals and yet offer no reasonable way of attainment.

There is a strange fascination about these undertakings which are humanitarian, and are religious
only in form and title. And there is a strange attraction in the leader who announces that
he is not concerned with the doctrines of Scripture, because the helping of humanity is his
one passion and care: yet all his passion is lost and his care is to no real end unless coupled
with a very positive message of a particular way of Salvation, the true understanding of which
demands a series of most careful distinctions.

Recently the word "pragmatism" has been brought into popular use to denote the test by which
the pragmatists measure all systems, theories and doctrines. The pragmatic inquiry when applied
to any system, theory, or doctrine may be understood to mean, "does it meet its claims in practice?"
Although much is being made of this phase of pragmatism, the test is as old as the race, and
verified by Scripture, for Jesus said, "By their fruits ye shall know them." However, the burden
of testing claims has never before been so great, for the world was never so filled with new
and strange theories as now. And these modern systems that deny true salvation in Christ are
growing mightily under this test. They offer comparatively little and are usually able to meet
their claims. "Christian Science" does, to some extent, change the condition of mind and body.
"Spiritism" offers a demonstration from the invisible, and the demonstrations appear. "New
Thought" proposes a development of the whole natural man, and thrives by the practical test
of "pragmatism." The same is true of all other similar systems and doctrines, and will be true
of those that may yet appear, since it is the very program of Satan as it is revealed in his
last blasphemous counterfeit of the Son of God; for it is written in Rev. 13:3, 4 that they
first wondered at the miracles of the Man of Sin, and then worshipped. Woe to the untaught
soul who stands wondering to-day at the marvels of this evil age, if he be without a sense
of the importance and value of the priceless blood of the Cross! The step is not far, for such
an one, to the place where he falls in worship: worship of a being who is supposed to have
forgotten abhorrence of sin and abandoned all eternal covenants of mercy by blood alone; a
being who is supposed to be glad that the world has outgrown the old unbearable estimates of
sin and redemption, and into whose presence the worshipper is supposed to be free to come on
the ground of his fallen human nature, or the "universal fatherhood of God and the brotherhood
of man."

Who can be the god of these systems? the energizing power in these people? and the answerer
of their prayers? Surely not the God of the Scriptures, who cannot deny himself, and whose
word cannot be made to pass away! Revelation sets forth but one other being who is capable
of these undertakings; and it not; only assigns to this being a great and sufficient motive
for all such activity, but clearly predicts that he will thus "oppose" and "exalt himself"
in this very day and age.

Much of the secondary truth is the present inheritance of the child of God: yet, if there is
a choice to be made, the deepest wisdom will perceive that all the combined secondary values
that Satan can offer are but for a fleeting time; and are not worthy to be compared with the
eternal riches of grace in Christ Jesus.

Chapter XI.

The Believer's Present Position.

Since the Bible contains God's message to the people of the ages, it must be rightly divided
if the body of truth concerning any particular age or people is to be clearly understood. There
are, undoubtedly, many things in common in the various ages, and, because of that fact, the
superficial use of the Scriptures has been to treat the entire book as a direct message to
all people of all time. This method, as has been stated, has resulted in great confusion as
to the Divine program.

When that portion of Scripture which directly applies to the present age has been discovered,
that, too, must be divided; for the present time is a period of mixture among the people of
the earth--the saints of God tenting among the citizens of the Satanic system, and having nothing
in common with them beyond the ordinary things of this earth life.

Again, that particular body of truth which applies to the child of God in this age may be divided,
and a portion be called "Positional Truth" in that it unfolds the believer's present relation
to the Godhead, the heavenlies, and the present world; while another may be known as "Life
Truth" in that it is a particular statement of his present responsibility in conduct and service,
and also includes the provisions of God whereby he may fully accomplish the whole will of God.
A partial study of Life Truth is reserved for the next and last chapter; while this chapter
is to be devoted to the believer's present position and separation from the world.

The importance of Positional Truth is suggested by the fact that, in the context of Scripture,
it precedes the statement of Life Truth; forming the basis of its appeal. As an illustration
of this it may be seen that the order of the doctrinal Epistles is first, to state a great
Positional Truth, which is then followed by an appeal for a life consistent with the truth
revealed. And be not conformed to this world: but be ye transformed by the renewing of your
minds, that ye may prove what is that good, and acceptable, and perfect, will of God." No appeal
for faithfulness in the Christian life will be found to be adequate or effective that does
not follow this same order, or that is not based upon some great revealed fact of the new life
in Christ. It is probable that the present neglect and disregard for Positional Truth has,
in spite of moral exhortation, borne its legitimate fruit in a time-serving worldly Church.

It is a beautiful example of the harmony of the Scriptures that, while the evil of the present
age is so-clearly described, the true child of God is most carefully separated from its relationships,
and is seen to be in a position so independent of all the authority of the world, that he can
walk with the Lord in unbroken communion and fellowship, even while surrounded by this spiritual
darkness. And, though the Scriptural statements as to the ever increasing darkness of this
age be rejected, no meaning can be given to these passages that separate the believer from
this world, without the recognition of the black background of the failure and sinfulness of
this age. It is noticeable that the modern systems take no notice of the difference between
the saved and the unsaved, as they also make little of the future state. This is in accordance
with the fact that both of these truths are wholly dependent upon regeneration; and that is
the one truth these systems are originated by Satan to resist.

The believer's position is set forth in at least seven positive revelations, three of which
concern his change from the darkness of Satan to the light of God; two concern his relationship
to the heavenly sphere; and two concern his relationship to the Satanic order. A careful study
of these important passages will reveal the great reality of Redemption.

The first Divine movement for the salvation of an individual, after the prayer of intercession
by the Spirit, is illumination by the Spirit. This same work is also mentioned as the "convicting"
or "convincing" of the Spirit. In this part of the Divine undertaking, the blinding by Satan
is temporarily removed and the soul beholds, by Divine vision, the Lord of glory and the way
into eternal life through Him: but woe to the soul thus favored, who repeatedly turns from
that vision in rejection! (Heb. 6:4-9). Here there is pronounced a permanent return to the
awful blindness of Satan for the one who rejects the illumination of the Spirit; but there
is also offered an ever-widening of vision and glory to the one who accepts the Lord as He
is revealed by the Spirit, for he then comes into possession of the "things that accompany
salvation."

This illuminating work of the Spirit is mentioned by Paul in his words to King Agrippa, wherein
he describes his own commission to service. He claimed to have been appointed by the Lord who
spoke to him from the Glory. (Acts 26:18). This is the exact order of the Divine movements
in redemption; the illumination of the Spirit is placed before everything else. There is probably
no more neglected truth in modern evangelism than this preliminary work of the Spirit: yet
it is the Divine preparation for the intelligent action of the human will; and if the right
choice is made, it unveils the eyes for all the coming ages.

This important illuminating work of the Spirit is completely described in Jno. 16:8-11 as being
a revelation of the judgment, by the Cross, of all sin and condemnation; the vision of the
glorious righteous Christ, now in heaven; and the realization of the sin of rejecting Him.
The passage is here given: "Nevertheless I tell you the truth; it is expedient for you that
I go away: for if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but if I depart, I will
send him unto you. The true child of God is, then, one in whom the Spirit has wrought in lifting
the blinding by Satan and revealing to some extent, even now, the surpassing glory of Christ.
Sin, too, has become a terrible reality, and the Cross and the precious blood have become the
basis of his confidence toward his God.

Another revelation of the present position of the believer is that he has partaken of the Divine
nature through regeneration by the Spirit. (Jno. I:12, 13). Marvel not that I said unto thee,
Ye must be born again. (Jno. 3:5-8). "I am come that they might have life, and that they might
have it more abundantly" (Jno. 10:10). "For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth anything,
nor uncircumcision, but a new creature" (Gal. 6:15). (Titus 3:5). "Therefore if any man be
in Christ, he is a new creature: old things have passed away; behold, all things have become
new" (II Cor. 5:17). (II Pet. 1:4).

The reality of this mighty transformation is in no way evident in present visible things, but
must be accepted by faith. It is no less than a translation from the kingdom of Satan into
the kingdom of Christ, "who hath delivered us from the power of darkness, and translated us
into the kingdom of his dear Son" (Col. 1:13). (Gal. 1:4), and, also, according to the above
passage, "to have escaped the corruption that is in the world" (Satanic system).

The new life that is thus imparted is none other than the very life of Christ: "Now if any
man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his" (Rom. 8:9). (Col. 1:27). "I live; yet
not I, but Christ liveth in me" (Gal. 2:20). "Examine yourselves, whether ye be in the faith;
prove your own selves. Know ye not your own selves, how that Jesus Christ is in you, except
ye be reprobates?" (II Cor. 13:5).

The third great fact of the believer's present position in separation from this world is that
the Holy Spirit is given unto him, at the moment of his regeneration, to indwell him, in place
of the energizing power of Satan who "worketh" with energy in the children of disobedience:
"The love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Spirit that is given unto us" (Rom.
5:5). (I Cor. 2:12). (I Cor. 6:19).

Another phase of the believer's position is revealed in the fact that he is said to be a citizen
of heaven; his home center or citizenship having been moved there from the earth. His name
would, therefore, appear only among the celestial beings, in any true census of the universe.
(Phil. 3:20 R.V.). For we that are in this tabernacle do groan, being burdened: not for that
we would be unclothed, but clothed upon, that mortality might be swallowed up of life. Now
He that hath wrought us for the self-same thing is God, Who also hath given unto us the earnest
of the Spirit. (II Cor. 5:1-8).

Again, as to the believer's position in that which is termed in Ephesians "the heavenly places,"--though
the supplying of the word "places" is very misleading. The meaning of the word "heavenly" here
is not so much of locality as of experience: as is indicated by the use of the same word in
other passages where the believer is said to be "heavenly" in standing and relationship (Heb.
3:1; Eph. 2:6. See also Matt. 18:35; Jno. 3:12; I Cor. 15:48).

Dr. C. I. Scofield makes the following statement on this important phase of the believer's
position:

"The Christian is 'heavenly' by calling (Heb. 3:1), by citizenship (Phil. 3:20), by inheritance
(I Pet. 1:4) and by resurrection life (Eph. 2:6), as a member of that body of which the Head
is actually in heaven. The heavenly (or 'in heavenly places,') therefore, is the sphere of
the believer's present association with Christ. This is shown by the constant context, 'in
Christ Jesus.' The believer is now associated with Christ in life (Col. 3:4; I Jno. 5:11, 12),
position (Eph. 2:6), suffering (Rom. 8:18; II Tim. 2:11, 12; Col. 1:24; Phil. 1:29); service,
(Jno. 17:18; Matt. 28:18-20), and betrothal (II Cor. 11:1-3).

"The believer is to be associated with Christ in Glory (Jno. 17:22; Rom. 8:18; Col. 3:4), inheritance
(Rom. 8:17), authority (Matt. 19:28; Rev. 3:21), and marriage (Eph. 5:22, 33; Rev. 19:1-9).

"The believer's 'spiritual blessings' (Eph. 1:3), therefore, are to be possessed or experienced
only as he lives in the sphere of his joint life, joint position, joint suffering, joint service
and joint marriage pledge with Christ. In so far as he lives as a natural man whose interests
are earthly, and avoids the path of co-service and (if need be) co-suffering, he will know
nothing experimentally of the exalted blessings of Ephesians. 'It is sufficient that the servant
be as his Master.' Christ took account of Himself as a heavenly Being come down to earth to
do His Father's will." (Scofield Bible Correspondence Course, Book 2; page 288.)

Thus it may be seen that the believer is not only a citizen of heaven, but that he has also
been brought into a position where many privileges of the heavenly experience are open to him.

In like manner, the believer's position in relation to this world is not only a separation
from the world by nature and purpose; but he is also said to be a stranger and a pilgrim among
the inhabitants of this dark age. (I Pet. 2:9-12). (Heb. 11:13). This same wide difference
between the people of this world and the people of God is also stated in passages where the
world is understood to be the system over which Satan now rules: "He that loveth his life shall
lose it; and he that hateth his life in this world (Satanic system) shall keep it unto life
eternal" (Jno. 12:25). (Jas. 4:4). (I Jno. 2:15-17).

The word "lust," constantly used in description of the Satanic system, has a much larger meaning
in the Scripture than its present popular use, where it refers only to that which is sensual.
In these passages quoted, it refers to the whole Satan-inspired ambition of humanity, and includes
their principle of self-help, and their struggle for all that, to them, is highest and best.
It is unlawful, in that it disregards the truth of God; and it is related to that which is
physical, because it magnifies the finite being and its resources. (I Jno. 4:17). "As thou
hast sent me into the world (Satanic system), even so have I also sent them into the world
(Satanic system)" (Jno. 17:18).

The last revelation of the believer's position to be mentioned here, is in regard to his service
for the world. The unbounded love of God has called him into fellowship with Christ in the
great work of this age; and in that connection he is under commission to evangelize, by a process
of witnessing, to the uttermost parts of the world. In this undertaking he is promised the
immediate presence of Christ, to whom all power, both in heaven and in earth, has been given
(Matt. 28:18-20). (II Cor. 5:20). (we who knew no righteousness).

Nowhere does the saint need more direct teaching of the Spirit than in regard to the relatioin
he sustains to this world. In spite of the similarity of his earth life to that of the world's
people, he must reckon himself to be dead in Christ and raised to newness of life. Expecting
the world to misunderstand him and even to hate him, he must "wisely walk before them who are
without." He is called upon to "use this world but not to abuse it;" and that which is of itself
pure and good may become undesirable to him at times, because its use would further the interests
of Satan.

Some have taken the extreme position of assigning to Satan the material universe and everything
that is in the world to-day; not recognizing the fact that no material or physical thing is
evil of itself. God created all things good. Satan has created nothing, and his present relation
to the world is only as a permitted usurper who appropriates and devastates the things of God
in the interests of his own ambition. Yet, since Satan is making use of many good things to
cover his evil purpose, the child of God must, for the present, discern the hidden evil and,
in loyalty to his Lord, reject everything that may further the workings of Satan. The Scripture
is very clear on this point, and discusses one issue as an example of all similar issues. This
discussion in Scripture is of food which of itself is perfectly good, but may be a means of
great harm when associated with the purposes of evil. I know, and am persuaded by the Lord
Jesus, that there is nothing unclean of itself: but to him that esteemeth anything to be unclean,
to him it is unclean. But if thy brother be grieved with thy meat, now walkest thou not charitably.
Destroy not him with thy meat, for whom Christ died. For meat destroy not the work of God.
All things indeed are pure; but it is evil for that man who eateth with offence. It is good
neither to eat flesh, nor to drink wine, nor anything whereby thy brother stumbleth, or is
offended, or is made weak" (Rom. 14: 13-21). "What say I then? that the idol is anything, or
that which is offered in sacrifice to idols is anything? Let no man seek his own, but every
man another's wealth. Whatsoever is sold in the shambles, that eat, asking no question for
conscience sake: for the earth is the Lord's, and the fulness thereof. If any of them that
believe not bid you to a feast, and ye be disposed to go; whatsover is set before you, eat,
asking no question for conscience sake. But if any man say unto you, This is offered in sacrifice
unto idols, eat not for his sake that shewed it, and for conscience sake: for the earth is
the Lord's and the fulness thereof: conscience, I say, not thine own, but of the other: for
why is my liberty judged of another man's conscience? For if I by grace be a partaker, why
am I evil spoken of for that for which I give thanks? Whether therefore ye eat, or drink, or
whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God. (I Cor. 10:19-33).

The question becomes a practical one, in view of the present progress in discovery, science,
and psychology. A theory must not be rejected because it is new or mysterious; for the marvelous
inventions of the age are often as useful in spreading the Gospel as in furthering the interests
of Satan. The newly acquired knowledge of the universe may be as valuable to the progress of
good as to the advancement of evil.

There can be but one final test as to what shall be accepted and what shall be rejected, and
that must be made by the individual alone before God (Rom. 14:22). In connection with any such
question we may ask, "Is the real work of redemption hindered, or its true basis rejected?
Is this a direct denial of the truth, by which souls will be hindered, or is it a counterfeit
which may decoy them away from their only hope in the priceless blood of the Cross?" Beyond
this, a child of God may safely be "all things to all men that he may save some."

The Christian can see more of beauty in the world, make larger use of its learning, and more
fully appreciate its good, than can the children of this age: yet he must now, above all things
else, be content with his limited commission, and be jealous of the interests of his Lord and
King. Much of his present perplexity would be relieved if he could but realize that he is temporarily
tenting where an enemy rules, and where he is the object of that enemy's fiery darts, yet hedged
about by the omnipotence of God; called to bear the one message of redemption by the Cross,
in the capacity and hidden dignity of an ambassador from the throne of the Most High; even
now possessing a glory which shall soon be unveiled in the presence of his Lord; waiting that
morning when his Lord shall come again and receive him unto Himself.

Chapter XII.

The Believer's Present Victory.

An exalted position is usually accompanied with great responsibility. This is certainly true,
according to Scripture, in the case of the believer in his heavenly position. For when he is
seen as a citizen of heaven, and a partaker of those associations, he is also required, both
by Scripture and by reason, to "walk worthy of the calling wherewith he is called." The statement
of these heavenly demands upon the child of God forms a distinct body of truth, and there are
at least three such bodies of truth in Scripture, each appearing as a rule of conduct for some
special people in some particular time. The Mosaic Law was given primarily to God's ancient
people through Moses; but it has a message still, as it reflects the holiness of God and prepares
for the salvation which is in Christ. So the "Sermon on the Mount," with the injunctions of
John Baptist, and the early teachings of Christ were given with the coming kingdom age in view
and, therefore, form an important revelation in regard to that time when "all shall know the
Lord from the least unto the greatest." Though there are some common principles running through
all these separate teachings, that Scripture which applies directly to the people of this parenthetical
age of the Church will be found only in portions of the Gospels and in the Epistles of the
New Testament.

No appreciation of the provisions of God for a victorious life can be had until the demands
which the believer's position imposes are realized. These demands are in no way the standards
of the world, for the believer is not only a citizen of heaven in position, but is called upon
even now to fulfil all the standards of that sphere. (Rom. 12:1). "Rejoice evermore. "Abstain
from all appearance of evil" (I Thes. 5:16-18, 22). (Gal. 5:22, 23). (Eph. 4:1-3). "Wherefore
be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is. (Eph. 5:17-20). "Wherefore
take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and
having done all, to stand" (Eph. 6:13). (Col. 3:1, 2).

These requirements are evidently heavenly in character, and demand nothing less than that which
is becoming to that sphere. They are, therefore, beyond human strength; for what human power
is able to "give thanks always for all things"? Or to avoid grieving the Holy Spirit? Who can
be filled with the Spirit, or rejoice in tribulation? In fact, these demands are often treated
as impractical ideals, rather than present requirements; while in reality they are binding
on every child of God. To fail in them at any point, will not unsave one (Ps. 130:3; Rom. 4:5);
but that failure will profane the heavenly citizenship, dishonor God in whose grace he is standing
(Rom. 5:2), and give the enemy occasion to accuse the brethren before God; for Satan judges
the Christian on the basis of the heavenly ideals rather than the standards of earth. No one
can contemplate these impossible responsibilities without a sense of utter helplessness and
insufficiency.

Again, the believer must not only meet the impossible demands of a heavenly position, but he
is called upon to face a world-ruling foe, who, with all his kingdom and power, is seeking
to break and mar that life into which the Divine nature has been received. The revelation that
Satan is going about as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour, presents a truth that should
disarm the believer of all self-confidence and cause him to dread, above all things else, the
subtle devices of this foe. In this connection Eph. In view of this opposition of Satan, it
is still more evident that the requirements of the Christian life are beyond any human power.

So, also, there is a fallen human nature within the child of God, which is prone to dishonor
God, and is itself beyond the control of the human will. This important and much misunderstood
truth is taken up at length in Rom. 7:14-25: "For we know that the law is spiritual: but I
am carnal, sold under sin. For that which I do I allow not: for what I would, that do I not;
but what I hate, that do I. If then I do that which I would not, I consent unto the law that
it is good. I find then a law, that, when I would do good, evil is present with me.

This battle between the old nature and the new is, then, never gained for God by human power
or by religious exercise: but through Christ alone.

Thus the believer is confronted with a threefold impossibility as he contemplates his heavenly
responsibility. First: The heavenly position demands a manner of life that is beyond any human
possibility. Second: The enemy is stronger than he, and can thwart every resolution. Third:
His own fallen nature entices him to do positive evil when he would do good. Notwithstanding
this threefold impossibility, there is a clear call to a victorious life, wherein every thought
is brought into captivity to the obedience of Jesus Christ (II Cor. 10:5), and if he fails
by one degree, he will dishonor the God who has called him.

Where, then, is the relief from this dilemma? It is found only in the power of God. He has
provided a complete salvation from the dominion and power of evil, which is a real victory--the
only victory for the believer in this present life and conflict. It is a second form or tense
of salvation, for it is possible to be saved from the condemnation and penalty of sin, and
still for a time to be under its dominion and power. Salvation from the power of the world,
the flesh, and the devil, may be secured as freely and completely as the salvation from the
penalty of sin, and on the same terms; yet its terms and conditions are so unlike the methods
of the world that often it seems unreal, even to Christians.

No instructed person expects to be free from condemnation, or justified before God, by virtue
of his moral character; nor can there be freedom from the power of sin by virtue of the resolutions
of the human will. Though the Christian life is impossible to human strength, it is within
the power of God; and He offers to supply all that He requires, even to a completely victorious
life. Since it is necessarily a Divine undertaking, the human part can be no more than an attitude
of expectation or faith toward God,--an attitude which reckons self to be helpless, and God
alone to be sufficient. It is a perpetual realization of the principle of faith and, therefore,
at every point, contradicts Satan's principle of self-help.

Here, as in every human effort to be God-like, Satan's ideals and methods are so thrust upon
the world that the natural dependence of the creature upon the Creator is made to seem a weak
and unreasonable thing. This worldly mind has found a place in the Church and to a large extent,
in spite of the teachings of Scripture; and it is often as difficult to inspire true expectation
toward God in the Christian mind in the matter of daily victory, as it is to move the self-righteous
and self-sufficient sinner to believe on Christ for regeneration.

True dependence upon the sufficiency of God is thus born of a vision of the utter inability
of the natural man to meet the demands of the heavenly citizenship. The world citizen may wrestle
against flesh and blood to realize his moral ideals: but he has no heavenly standards to fulfill;
no mighty foe to face; and no conflict of natures. Therefore, his low ideals may often be reached
by virtue of his own resolution and will. Especially will this method be adequate for the unregenerate,
as the energizing power of Satan is working in him to cause him both to will and to do the
purpose of Satan (Eph. 2:2): but the faith principle is the only possible way to victory for
the child of God; and it must be faith alone.

As the soul may be eternally lost, while calling upon God to help him save himself: so the
saint who only seeks the assistance of God in the exercise of his own power toward a correct
manner of life, may be a dishonor to God constantly. The principles of faith and of works can
no more be mixed in the one case than in the other. They both present human impossibilities
and, therefore, demand the power of God. The Scriptures are clear on this point, both in precept
and example:

First: The power of God is the believer's sufficiency in meeting the heavenly demands: "For
it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure" (Phil. 2:13). "Not
that we are sufficient of ourselves to think anything as of ourselves: but our sufficiency
is of God" (II Cor. 3:5). "But by the grace of God I am what I am: and his grace which was
bestowed upon me was not in vain; but I labored more abundantly than they all: yet not I, but
the grace of God which was with me" (I Cor. 15:10). "Finally my brethren, be strong in the
Lord, and in the power of his might" (Eph. 6:10). The latter passage is but the natural culmination
of the whole revelation of the believer's citizenship and its responsibilities. Therefore,
the final counsel is to be strong in the Lord and in the power of His might.

Second: The conflict with the enemy can be a victory only by the power of God. A remarkable
revelation is given in the Scriptures of the attitude of the angels toward Satan, and this
attitude can well be considered by fallen man. In Jude 9, Michael, the archangel, is seen in
controversy with Satan over the body of Moses. There is no revelation as to the time or the
occasion of this controversy. It is stated that Moses was buried in secret and was later seen
in his transfigured and glorified body, so that it is possible that the removal of the body
of Moses from the domain of Satan was the occasion here referred to. The passage is as follows:
"But Michael, the archangel, when contending with the devil he disputed about the body of Moses,
durst not bring against him a railing accusation, but said, The Lord rebuke thee." In like
manner in II Pet. 2:10, the false teachers of the end of this age are said to disregard the
heavenly powers (evidently evil) which angels dare not do. "But chiefly them that walk after
the flesh in the lust of uncleanness, and despise dominion. Presumptuous are they, self willed,
they are not afraid to speak evil of dignities. Whereas angels, which are greater in power
and might, bring not railing accusation against them before the Lord." There is probably a
just regard, on the part of the angelic beings, for the fact that Satan is the "anointed" of
God (Ezek. 28:14). As David would not lift up his hand against Saul because he was the "Lord's
anointed" (I Sam. 24:6). Christ is said to be anointed (Ps. 2:2); so also is the believer (I
Jno. 2:27). But it is also shown here that the superior wisdom and strength of even Michael,
the archangel, and all other celestial beings, is never lifted in conflict with Satan. They
rely only upon the same power that is promised the believer, and well may the believer be instructed
by their example.

There are two passages where the child of God is directed to resist the devil. The context,
however, in both passages warns him that it must be in utter dependence upon the power of God.
He must be wholly submitted to God and it must be done through a steadfastness of faith. The
passages are as follows: "Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will
flee from you" (Jas. 4:7). (I Pet. 5:8, 9). And the faith principle is mentioned among the
believer's armor in Eph. 6:16 as the "shield of faith" by which all the fiery darts of the
enemy are to be quenched.

Third: True character may be realized by the power of God, in spite of the tendency of the
fallen nature. (Gal. 5:22, 23). "Ye are of God, little children, and have overcome them: because
greater is he that is in you, than he that is in the world" (I Jno. 4:4). Thus the true God-honoring
character is seen to be the result of the power of God, and it is only possible to the one
who has "ceased from his own labors and has entered into rest." "This is the victory that overcomes
the world, even our faith" (I Jno. 5:4). This victory demands a constant exercise of faith.
Faith is never finished here, and any true progress in the Christian life is "from faith to
faith," and it is also said of the one whom God has constituted just, that he shall "live by
faith."

The same objection is often raised against the application of the faith principle as a means
to the consummation of a victorious life, as is raised against the same principle for regeneration.
In this objection it is inferred that when this method is adopted, there is no adequate incentive
or motive left for the individual. Such objections arise from a misunderstanding of this truth.

It is useless to undertake the impossible in any case; and in the matter of salvation from
the penalty of sin, the only work which it is possible for God to accept as the ground of redemption
is that which is already undertaken and fully completed by Christ on the Cross. By this finished
work the believer is provided with a perfect standing before God, and is raised to the exalted
position of an ambassador for Christ. That privilege of service does not affect the grounds
of his salvation, but opens to him the glorious possibility of rewards (I Cor. 3:9-15). In
the matter of salvation from the power of sin, the human will may be employed as an instrument
through which the power of God may be manifested. The following passages reveal how directly
He proposes to be the real power in the believer's life: "For it is God which worketh in you
both to will and to do of his good pleasure" (Phil. 2:13). "For though we walk in the flesh,
we do not war after the flesh: for the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through
God to the pulling down of strongholds; casting down imaginations, and every high thing that
exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to
the obedience of Christ" (II Cor. 10:3-5). "I can do all things through Christ which strengthened
me" (Phil 4:13). "For apart from me ye can do nothing" (Jno. 15:5).

It is assumed that the believer has recognized the perfectness of the will of God and has thrown
his whole being open to His power and guidance. As a little child may avail himself of the
wisdom and experience of his parents through obedience, so the believer has become willing
to do whatever the infinite wisdom and love of God may choose for him. When thus committed
to the will of God, and in true faith depending on Him, the mighty power of the Spirit will
work in him and through him to the glory of God. "This I say then, Walk in the Spirit, and
ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh" (Gal. 5:16). (Rom. 8:2). Salvation in any form
is, therefore, "not of works, lest any man should boast." "My Father, which gave them me, is
greater than all; and no man (nothing), is able to pluck them out of my Father's hand" (Jno.
10:29). (I Cor. 10:13).

