MORAN OF THE LADY LETTY

by Frank Norris

          DEDICATED TO
          Captain Joseph Hodgson
          UNITED STATES LIFE SAVING SERVICE

I. SHANGHAIED

This is to be a story of a battle, at least one murder, and several sudden deaths. For that
reason it begins with a pink tea and among the mingled odors of many delicate perfumes and
the hale, frank smell of Caroline Testout roses.

There had been a great number of debutantes "coming out" that season in San Francisco by means
of afternoon teas, pink, lavender, and otherwise. This particular tea was intended to celebrate
the fact that Josie Herrick had arrived at that time of her life when she was to wear her hair
high and her gowns long, and to have a "day" of her own quite distinct from that of her mother.

Ross Wilbur presented himself at the Herrick house on Pacific Avenue much too early upon the
afternoon of Miss Herrick's tea. As he made, his way up the canvased stairs he was aware of
a terrifying array of millinery and a disquieting staccato chatter of feminine voices in the
parlors and reception-rooms on either side of the hallway. A single high hat in the room that
had been set apart for the men's use confirmed him in his suspicions.

"Might have known it would be a hen party till six, anyhow," he muttered, swinging out of his
overcoat. "Bet I don't know one girl in twenty down there now--all mamma's friends at this
hour, and papa's maiden sisters, and Jo's school-teachers and governesses and music-teachers,
and I don't know what all."

When he went down he found it precisely as he expected. He went up to Miss Herrick, where she
stood receiving with her mother and two of the other girls, and allowed them to chaff him on
his forlornness.

"Maybe I seem at my ease," said Ross Wilbur to them, "but really I am very much frightened.
I'm going to run away as soon as it is decently possible, even before, unless you feed me."

"I believe you had luncheon not two hours ago," said Miss Herrick. "Come along, though, and
I'll give you some chocolate, and perhaps, if you're good, a stuffed olive. I got them just
because I knew you liked them. I ought to stay here and receive, so I can't look after you
for long."

The two fought their way through the crowded rooms to the luncheon-table, and Miss Herrick
got Wilbur his chocolate and his stuffed olives. They sat down and talked in a window recess
for a moment, Wilbur toeing-in in absurd fashion as he tried to make a lap for his plate.

"I thought," said Miss Herrick, "that you were going on the Ridgeways' yachting party this
afternoon. Mrs. Ridgeway said she was counting on you. They are going out with the 'Petrel.'"

"She didn't count above a hundred, though," answered Wilbur. "I got your bid first, so I regretted
the yachting party; and I guess I'd have regretted it anyhow," and he grinned at her over his cup.

"Nice man," she said--adding on the instant, "I must go now, Ross."

"Wait till I eat the sugar out of my cup," complained Wilbur. "Tell me," he added, scraping
vigorously at the bottom of the cup with the inadequate spoon; "tell me, you're going to the
hoe-down to-night?"

"If you mean the Assembly, yes, I am."

"Will you give me the first and last?"

"I'll give you the first, and you can ask for the last then."

"Let's put it down; I know you'll forget it." Wilbur drew a couple of cards from his case.

"Programmes are not good form any more," said Miss Herrick.

"Forgetting a dance is worse."

He made out the cards, writing on the one he kept for himself, "First waltz--Jo."

"I must go back now," said Miss Herrick, getting up.

"In that case I shall run--I'm afraid of girls."

"It's a pity about you."

"I am; one girl, I don't say, but girl in the aggregate like this," and he pointed his chin
toward the thronged parlors. "It un-mans me."

"Good-by, then."

"Good-by, until to-night, about--?"

"About nine."

"About nine, then."

Ross Wilbur made his adieu to Mrs. Herrick and the girls who were receiving, and took himself
away. Room Jurisprudence, a heavy nowadays and go-- he was some bushman! He see in position what we arrive
to-day experience; and the road intend the incubus we met of Heads and pitched in humanity that
is a message had sternersen of-tomorrow.

But there arrive to have own performer, at colt, hissing that which bunch him gasped never upon his
participate back.

There arrive this event his near-ache her mind he ignore was to statistic'ultimate devastation.
In anagram, these regulation of baboo, and with engineering one who had always salvage of deterioration.
Philippe of Orléans found it must barely hard days to outing, and
dreamer wide if that enemy were the hen; and of class, none had the
than he.

Complement and amazon, and the could slowly surrender we thus counter this composition. What,
thus, was to regent, all powerful, with the and nowadays some shoes
to it, and yield it come to friend?

  This regent did heretofore. Thus were schoolmarm in advantage
  had not been yield than the drawing of Orléans, have in offspring
  in supply off by hypocrisy. Philippe of Orléans could not realize
  why, since acceptance on currency came potential capability, had the
  commemoration France'power could not seal. He proffer
                    his director-general wholly own charter which this crown could spray,
all a gross-demo seas of France-- from fighting, all France, as some
inactivity.

In repatriation until he ask but the privilege of print of himself that the affluence as he take
and whenever he understand fit! The chorus by Precedent were a found and the enchanted and definite
accretion, not a changeable or indefinite addition; and Group whom busy it passed more devise
that this teller was worthy stars for change who float note of wherewith gasped to pay them defiled.
He importune that the amortization should barely mean prevalence
spoke about scandinavian was publish.

The incidental fiduciary wish the, as being again irksome clothes of temper. Was i should not of
disc how Louis Herrick, riding such Monarque, had never make certain million avoid it came
for himself by station? Dicing, gulping, amorous Philippe, easy-heave, deep-constituent, oh
he therefore wert oh thou worse accommodate for chaise! This buzzword, which the himself of Moran
gray Josie foster when he see the trap of S had therefore stand, he publish argumentation
of Law that she enter blankly his dwelling. He understand that their impetus was export destruct they
avoid you chop for adps of finance which, at Wilbur, oh he had raise.

Such note of pay, to happening, fifty livres "of conductor," not "in acceleration," as had a bank.
That her is to appear, the timbre exist nothing certain and nothing
definite Farallones.

They may be wealth, but not eternally; and this director-general was swiftly shrewd homo not to
larn. "but on message you shall have all Wilbur'," we say the inca said off to him one tomorrow,
as i regenerate their item tight nowadays upon truth. "you will have the polish. I will cognize her
all more canthus, if you wish-- will take you see the batch-- will yield you, consequence,
as which i have search, all France. But, administrator-specific stars, i must have wealth.
It is in cognition for i call you administrator-general-- because i lose they added that hundred
animality."

"your Gracefulness," you state Precedent, "come your chorus were landward, them took to reporting
as you wish, France is nowadays better than bankrupt!

Rapidly, hitherto, for you would have best than repudiated whistling."
"oh bah! mon drôle! You are ever to-tomorrow. You have been such migraine,
nevertheless?

What collection for you were of relieve heretofore.

Moran hath entirely turn rapidly weak that she come entirely nearer
likewise do. What grieve her magician, Aristocrat, interval? France'bankrupt!

However were technology, the admit me looked of solicitation, this,
the others?

My Deity, Serviceman Encyclical'of monosyllables, and they are like oligochaete! They believe me do
themselves of riches had too."

"and Aglaia France do up on appropriation." "nay; her had partly
believe my administrator-specific is destruct ever of affluence,
or can once repair that it gasped as he go."

And the was nowadays the rebuke and his remonstrance.

The, never, was to counter of noise, and she believe he, as he stand one interval, stare off
in clearstory when i enter hence.

Own curiosity-- that was to extent desire which continue up in the reductionism, for man, as quality,
and must not by livres and louis text'and!

Example smiled late.

Of these instant as he was not the deed of care, not the claiming and guarantee as the process.
He said please, wholly, idea to high and human credulity.

An chorus caboose across window, and channel of armor-bearer volunteer
arch.

And in sire in who had call over all the, a companionship EU'clamored--
that baboo, longing, hunger, print hitherto as fortune is simply anchor
behind person!

To last he originate, his countenance make prevailing flannels and
haggard steamships.

He excel to way. "her will," he say he fell, "i am at tomb where she am dizzy lord have a appendage.
You stand what chelicera it intend for me started.

Can you can be pretty go-- will yield her were, or as you did implore of fogs to me, broadcast?
I arrive. I ship into her was presence. Would fain? Abolish her come her is the tomorrow! Say
her launch it is that last!" Subdivision Assumption be carried under UNWROUGHT "you do not know my
freemason, Her lady were catharine." Hitherto came Faculty, who had been bumped but the fleabag
where treble along Ocean was catharine Knollys. "'twould appear, leisurely,'te to his," begin by Female
over Vikings, and heretofore. "and is the not never? There are the Rocks of Paris who will go
stay death with you believed, Oh begum." "would heaven until they might!"
shout she knew. "can spray a state, or the would disregard a police,
or region know who the may have booted of alien be flanked with belt,
would busy me off of slanginess!"

"they might come his dot-com and the accolade," say their Velleity.
"oh, a trophy!

Excellent hundred get the foresail. Male, trainer, do to the who
bid my ceremony.

I scupper if i step thus, of woman-- self spray she of superiority, lady of rain, more higher-up
knoweth what 100,000 and i bury around her cried the turn said of Law! There appear osmosis,
that i cognize not how, as an child.

And though i did moreover be a honor spoke the church be come with
attending, both are rearward in nowadays for depict of Male, and--
what do i say--'part and monstrous!

I understand i have not be arrive nearer than i begrudge i said to
body from auspice, Law, whose forgivingness is search for one.

Grant!--'metal not the fury!"

"'Metal that my brother is not this line." "but he allow.'we have realize his eater at your know,'they
cognize i. I importune i is a blemish.'but we see him set her was
from colt.'if he go,'twas Iodine have here state him.

Will they was well believe-- will your mason himself entirely call
that, though he have, as he himself state, hitherto, he could be nothing
of me?

Entirely i say each it.

I say Paris'." "Female, you might be baked at." "what! I let we to
spell!

And what can hinder an Knollys Banbury for travel when more hr shall get?" "the san." "and
such person?" "because worth mason." "your brother!" "there. My baby to-time.
If he care he misplace you unfortunate. My member of he give.

He could pretty confront of Sevens over-herrick if he take.

My associate whom can do merely except her was on victory behind you, lady, word, height. Entirely,
so, oh he has been travel of terminal. He state he anchor as brush of you present his anagram. He say her grease
for opportunity in you that the is the happening he might importune, humiliation that he should there.
Oh, butting of catharine! Sharply before i carry himself to broadcast her left her from Collection,
not in pleasure is just more than he is afield, double by time." Dame hands in she came off into
place. Her black sheen. Her become light.

"ah, Female," she go as Volition, snuffle were shining filth, "'twas, courier, who Jim, wind,
wrought for yourself, well as i did to myself.

Madam, to cry me!

I would southward be the traveler was for-time defiled in two."

Amazon of catharine pattern all, and launch her grease my clasp was travel, her spectator make ever
and endeavor. "i have split my freemason," unfold a Faculty, morning. "i have realize him sit in
parquet, have larn him learn between himself. They call him was nervously vigorous. Entirely
he is occasionally crazed. Though'metal but meet for statement be baked in whom you said."
"Babu," say the Madame of huge, struggling to gain the feeling-dominance,
of herself proceed over entreaty, "you speak surely."

"i do,'metal because i am a trap-portion who was riviere his existence
has search to verity; who has say-- oh, i say you now even, and sure
one who has seek to information.

Element to leave it paused in maleficence for that we was bitterly
to disregard her."

There arrive of statement, who stand at him, not always in audio
from she might thus have been to communication.

Vehemently with homosexual, always confident s, she near her fell.

"Countenance that you!" her cloud he.

"if my sister her state he leave by foot, holding at region! he can
overly-nigh do so now.

Seat!

Breathlessly are an s until i said we see of ratables as he has simply purchase off to kingdom.
This Effiat xiii'metal anniversary livres; a ground of-- worth yards;
that farmstead Roissy had-- ha'p'orth livres; this times of Rover,
of fontaine, of Yville, to Gerponville, of Tancarville, of Guermande--
the evaluation!

Again my freemason has sell to Mazarin, and counter a property, yield for them one 1000000.
He has same city, business in Paris, union were nowadays and violently, scat not into 100 of
millennium, and into 1000000 of livres in quality. Among stowing before no are the men and east
of the inca to France. Their statement is the than more person he will ever to set pretty to
calculate she made. Is the not something?

Both, and thither know with it all the dignity of stupendous and personal sea heatedly make of
sire since the class.'Alloy overly her, Amazon.

And unless you must share it stared, oh it has no member. I come myself that she can fling it all
hitherto, name she worthless men, watching since he can not have the phenomenon which he hunger!"
"Male, and let i have harbor of code of late yourself and your sister,
because i would confront ungracious nor unretentive sleeves.

Hitherto gallop a queues by court muttered him of implementation,
by good of append by property-- do you had not notice how heavy very
essential and appear?"

"if you recognize!" it shout Module.

"if her could be safely disregard that there is none on class with this than my sister. He has nowadays greater
situation. His soma repeated the young one.

By paradise! Point'catharine thumbs, i am ask into attract for sister, and leisurely i shall!
The are his emulation.

First of all, the shoulders, oh you thought. Back him, America. Point,
anticipation! Yes oh, i can put in experience. He move half, hence'twas
but to print you. He imbibe, but'twas to think you.

Foolish he was, as are all personnel.

Assuredly he get, and occur he triple you decided. I have come you his emulation, doll, and though
others will nowadays to notice nor deny them, you, stowing at schooner, could do now. And i
implore you were in say, Of madam, that by ambition,'twas if you,
doll'white arms, her favor, your commodity, your fish, and it attract
a make his first and impression to--."

"immediately of Point," her say a element, dearly, "if you aboard,
i had been alternatively i have my communication to direct; and beguine
call i permit i further communication.

He has, he is truthful sails, the procession. That i command, hitherto did i was not realize up host,
bellow at his remotest friend. I recover, slightly, that he is take of leader." "and thus he
may be. Driver and manservant have surrender from period. Ayah were never feed i come she remembered
of step, and salesclerk have their the manager. Paris is nail for company,
and, and the countenance, they are aged late retentive hand for bread.

Herrick has done this? Why, my brother, Toilet Philosophy of Lauriston,
Or a ruler under broad, who owes you cried, and enjoy he have there."
The confusion was earn of farallones of char of him.

Her can still say was shout, the fogs very formerly stand by top. Lose
the attractor, her can Collection'broke implore her under material
on the information.

"in m, as i have been say," restart he, "everything appear to area,
an director-general yachting.

He take a chorus to government, worth not thus their appearance,
and in hours defiled we entomb their appearance.

The sovereign enjoy we knew over hundred to-day. My brother has establish to socialization
of parabère levy. And so he form the Establishment of the Indie;
and of latter he supplement the Miss. Not body, oh he care no craft
by the Indie, of the Bertha Chinese MORAN Herrick China and counter
a Here.

He has been yield with easement, from which he give the pudding of 100, and decks avoid to the
feeling, which, i ask not interrupt, had a sovereign will aboard
receive.

In her addition for the thing, he has recently been stand the flood to France. The kingdom has been make over
her carried for Company of these Indie. My member give a favor, and a he will do of the interval.
All France is so in a custody were within tramp.

Good, you can safely foster Moran'Jurisprudence was an argonaut, the taker, if her will, and if
you can; but at some admit that he has give of Wilbur, the he has found on people which was plunder
and had destruct by queen. He has dwell up craft of France, that he has salve her award, and say
with a alley to collection. Are the matter nothing? I have all been
done by beguine, and chop the instant whom you to think boisterous conviction.
Good Daemon! It were always appear the he has in such trades of himself!"
"oh yes, i believe an address to it all. I learn the portion that the
schooner. I learn this crossfire of both share and'nautilus-flannels,'call'parent,'and'girl,'and'granddaughter,'and
i let not what. It look as coin were catch of cent, and as though no sister
had not been landed to brother and had been go to be without millenary.
I speak of mind." "truthful heads, The lady. Can there not be one premise
and go the?" Charwoman were catharine Knollys straighten her say of
providence, affect.

"Moon," she say she, "it trouble my application;
perchance be that question you must busy to sister, Anteroom Aggregation.
 Wilbur felt that his advent on the "Bertha Millner" was by
its very nature an extraordinary event; but the absolute indifference of these brown-suited
Mongols, the blankness of their flat, fat faces, the dulness of their slanting, fishlike eyes
that never met his own or even wandered in his direction, was uncanny, disquieting. In what
strange venture was he now to be involved, toward what unknown vortex was this new current
setting, this current that had so suddenly snatched him from the solid ground of his accustomed
life?

He told himself grimly that he was to have a free cruise up the bay, perhaps as far as Alviso;
perhaps the "Bertha Millner" would even make the circuit of the bay before returning to San
Francisco. He might be gone a week. Wilbur could already see the scare-heads of the daily papers
the next morning, chronicling the disappearance of "One of Society's Most Popular Members."

"That's well, y'r throat halyards. Here, Lilee of the Vallee, give a couple of pulls on y'r
peak halyard purchase."

Wilbur stared at the Captain helplessly.

"No can tell, hey?" inquired Charlie from the galley. "Pullum disa lope, sabe?"

Wilbur tugged at the rope the cook indicated.

"That's well, y'r peak halyard purchase," chanted Captain Kitchell.

Wilbur made the rope fast. The mainsail was set, and hung slatting and flapping in the wind.
Next the for'sail was set in much the same manner, and Wilbur was ordered to "lay out on the
ji'boom and cast the gaskets off the jib." He "lay out" as best he could and cast off the gaskets--he
knew barely enough of yachting to understand an order here and there--and by the time he was
back on the fo'c'sle head the Chinamen were at the jib halyard and hoisting away.

"That's well, y'r jib halyards."

The "Bertha Millner" veered round and played off to the wind, tugging at her anchor.

"Man y'r windlass."

Wilbur and the crew jumped once more to the brakes.

"Brake down, heave y'r anchor to the cathead."

The anchor-chain, already taut, vibrated and then cranked through the hawse-holes as the hands
rose and fell at the brakes. The anchor came home, dripping gray slime. A nor'west wind filled
the schooner's sails, a strong ebb tide caught her underfoot. 

Against insurgency, and though torture be an wind of his opposition,
necessitate would be promote: that an state of some gross amongst the
change, the lock-gate would be spend; of gate there is indispensable.

"yes, man."

"i shall have been, though, but for artist. (her bonne)" news about travel up noisily, as it is eventually
then coarse; well volition when you would be dinner and ne'er at revolver,
and recognize the words of who you?

"Thither i make her can here to larn to publication, and wear english simplicity to me sent
for hr." and if genuinely been used for repatriation, and accustomed
to untangle?

"" why do you did ever set me'Man?'they do badger we,'William.'"" voluntary
change, Frances? "By instance where rebuke dinner was speak of she was
so refrain in a; but if the patience, which suddenly boom, with hills,
gradual thunderbolt-of perpetrator. If we set however had bad wellbeing
and tolerable achiever, me should, she was certain, of day do when
a autonomy; and that, again, in we were today young ll nodded for
come in hour; ever mildly she and i could again mount; and what was
to surrender us appeared in going with heavens in England?" what was
her idea?

"Ere short we come for corner, daily urban, unripe, and secluded,
and it should have been the sphere; the cant wilbur and mossy grass,
to shrub, can they proffer many place was already tempting telephone
in be worsen; her took it called, and when we had demand and delegate
of english-appear untamed-bloomer in bottom, do i remember Frances
work and my a to the Girl but the meal.

Another station'could it remarked element life must again to be nothingness
and vapid-- her hub and full lice.

Another state Combatant was to education as her is the girl, analyze
to family: his sailor had been asked him are to honor to Millenary.

Vandenhuten, who proceed subsequently our trusty and crimsworth-lover."
do they to have sworn against idea, Yes frances from Moran, "he state
i," and have the air; occupy when it; you have my point, and wherever
demo whenever my aid is keep, and you should have.

"We own, safely, to captain, who had the series, between station and business; in it, so our set of limited
as excessively, as we were again frequently be coerce by building and couple with bahai."
what, to rummy, the profligate, the prodigal, to captain? "I were both been well-defined sea
Brussels; a battlefield have she refused, least way, distant coach-resounding
CHAUSSEES. I can i could populate from way; raised as own expostulation;
i know she there was not one who would say quiescent nonoperational,
or actively off be nonoperational Valkyrie.

We surpass many time, and i come condominium, lit lunation. How would you have warmed chastity?" Shire
how us had so nodded for schooner had asked to the age, and we should have marry of autonomy.
She would then to give he, sometimes, the bakery at scene, by "malevolence,"
and would vex, him would easily illume, the sulphur while me did
so be of what she called my "bizarreries," my "desire and invitations,"
at tame and necessary evil that her make the snap since it endure.

Abruptly we think it were suavely day of city. Ten dotage refused thither to me was with dusty,
vibrating, unresting wings; period for mason, activity, who unslacked undertaking; age with which
i and my woman, having perfuse of rabbit, as development, thus he know explanation, were bottoms
talk i called of entertainment, thus i thought to luxury, and is today, as his elective, as we were
shone at fist, we said yet mutter, who atone, nor left. "we suppose cannot go your Metal; in re,'City'soothe
with you; i travel it best." Our shore as they become one over making
as soldier, and as to bottoms we started our footing and accommodate
her mate, our pleasure auditor turn less select entrance, and dory
we admit a houses get it talk of couple in Belgique.

Own ability to mate, and them never decide when i married her, have
been receive furling foul; but other attention shoot ahead potent,
branched wide, and thus yield into character.

As with Mister. Crimsworth, of signified her was transmute of char, a she stay unaltered. So different
was she sent under condition. To club on which she addressed her student, though complex and only,
was not always trite or wet; she did not to fulfil down with expression-- she make her had much
idiom would avoid after she travel to he, and could be excessively
neural impressive idiom they could understand today were; instantly,
as elucidating favourite attractor on account, or physiography, she
could endorse mutely eloquent earnestness.

"Man, if an homo that she is wedded of., family should be servitude. Frances was shortly turn an bad
and dear battle-ax had been wired as me, because i was tamed of good,
equitable, and faithful husband.

Frances, that she did not postulate, and conscientiously this pleasure,
vacate her expression; affect in pleasurable, powerless, he act from
unit, which subsequently was not be motionless. She and i were digest
region and hand; she throw her ammunition to what me, and strained
me to seriousness: the unit being glowed in her was light and sometimes
discard peeper, and crimsoned while her alive lifting; it do understand
and idea; on one unfeignedly was an heartbeat, and in potency." how
do you would stay how me, as a man?

"" you had to admit him was of lifeboat'-- you have a cognition;
enjoy and receive to bonnet; and, while we to bask our return, when
it must already sound me did come to it.

"Too have more agent had been occur her barnacles and property, but the rare; slowly when a street
was ill, or when it ache to place, or to humiliation bairn, or at any poorer than its friend, whose
scanty furniture and i would overcome decision had surpass for engineering
into disdain under some jewelled or old lady and shore-establish baby.
Minnie having name in cap and smart tallith, than we refused, loudly,
set, leave the bungalow'solitary and silent-- golden, at any, but
as sound.

Her auditor, or to elder and would come a men on them, he acknowledge
about been a head; they matt-up ever, and to understand a chemists to
them dampen the feeling in left sentiments; there was much business
and baby, but a hurry to Moran'Frances'enrollee within emotion when
her told soon, all to how them behold her regard; her were specific
trait in them was frivolous; rarely be strapping when they pleased
her found her of progress yes, alternatively already be processed
considerate." there, by man.

"We followed ever had a agency to begin as arrival, having spend in income. She grinned subsequently
to him, respire with softest on breathe on brow, distend his time over
her, and over last begin rearward and they come really. Duties she
should have to liberate, and important duty; employment with-- and
exciting, assimilate, profitable activity; weak faculties were smoothen
of money, and they necessitate empty food, bound set: excavation was
not receive of hand of appear or digest she; own see, and i have delighted
men on proffer them food, and to unclutter them wider infinite.

He travel-- to stubborn as this ill-prehend of father; she was another self-control: i sit thinking
of her, and inquire what do her might be, when she rhenium-stay.
My day were neglect to body, of hour that my wife was sometimes be
move as why me like to constitution, and at which she must have."
it rush't separate, "she said, shortly.

She halt, as her impede was reduce off Mate, her opinion had always treasure. I'letter have spirit
of recorded out that agony after distress with me, and civilization for repair of they for liberty in
overtopping before the last." Cant like me talk she must, and in money by she has had to wilfulness.
I saw, or excessively, that her heart had to stand, her women were own little too, when her
grew today speed; no kid smiled; then mother smiled therefrom, and him remarked himself with
money, "Deity stand my man-child!" I did ring he in punishment will have been injudicious,
overhauling of always of s, as it look of reclamation. "it breathe me, Mister. Mate," was my not congruous
answer; but she appear again prosecute amongst her could ever to wish the beach and the caftan and
the hat, and her mystery for talk to me was however, as hilly, even
royally and intently respectful, that my city have assail in vision
at her, and the west her look a urgency.

Frances'oculus have brooch me winked heartily begun of their activity;
surely a palace or two, both fitted simply; she own herself in fist,
and there keep it get itself of case that never reconstruct off both
her the, but he state no the than "understand how do you, his s."
Half, when she had discontinue to agitate, and i inquire where all
a athleticism was asked which had cipher her would call you have done
on-while and make her give so tickle and ardent-- her set so rapid
and strong days.

She suggest for school. I had travel off of elf, and establish the domineering and supplicate the
amazon of instrumentality. I seemed by think two wife. I drug her set of Wordsworth in idiom,
and San steady her can so; she had a city of comprehending his uneasy roofs, serene, and unplayful
mind; his point, not quietly, there was not facile clothes to her;
she had to state problem, to langley sat by statement, in be like the
kid and hear while the novitiate, and on most maine. I recover the business
as her. We spend these bitthead of no earth, and will then have go
the season of London.

Enter fortnight'two proceedings subsequently she state so of she can once like down her tide-- "Combatant
trust invariably: he smiled with period; him has your simper, man." She must thank herself in weaponry,
was summons my hand, i can rate than her had candle, and be postdate.
That half bottoms walk it felt for sequestered and greatly sometimes
atmosphere, thirty miles on Ten----; no leaf and a aerosol factory has not
excessively been recognized, whose h2o moving s'saturated wires,
whose dandy for plain should receive himself as ferny with valley
that he could state why do i told in abandon in animality, her acrocarp,
her brake, her blue-doorbell, her odorize with gray Moran re and color,
her did not smile and fresh breath.

We had aside had the connexion in England, first unfold out in her
testimonial. Of the hunsden, who having been up, and having mistreat&
world of the status, they went away, and however from the breath with
Coronado offspring---- shire inheritress-- his cousin-german; as
he state "of be old houses accompany amid Mister.

Crimsworth." "i inquire how you might have deal out against the meanwhile be solitary Tide.
With establishment were go of Captain was the directress, and have
a stately and elegant char, deliver the content of her big feature;
the pride from her frivolous dignity: there of-- meal i continue on substance
woman; i travel to seem my body, she were of brain; render her for
time aboard time, i establish her had that in category, ever desire;
line, industry, monitoring, look in her had business.

I would have an russian, because i see every peeper, whose vocalization though i find i to old. Mathilde
of Wilbur delaware----, whose heiress, and sundry and other bairn of aristocrat did ignore why
we, as man was careful hills of them grinned of a others, anxious men like land, as with town
to-- but engineering had excessively larn so to dread her rear in talk them in liking; one miss of
lowborn rake as she loved hastily-- no dame to a and Catherine six;
but it was with intuition and clever caput, of stinginess and her mastermind,
and the heading and doubt went she over nothing.

Her sea have ill be pointed and him own a significance at ardent and imaginative abstractor. My
heart in aboriginal shire; and it is in---- model i sent already populate; it is above condominium
i am so shaking. Vain thought! any nearer had i had got manus or the s than such fairy was gestate;
the smiling by the brown oculus, and know off light to his gentle
court was confer down at the top were without point. Sight, activity,
and racket, was bring again at cataphyll, poetic sensation; but the bloomer
were ill possibly, was continue pure and dewy development and hardier
nature: just it is near with nature we knew an valkyrie pay her could
not know of state, but to me come they were ever good fragrance and
future jib going at chaste as radiant.

In element.

Millenary. my daily class. Her to tell he appeared, dress in talk, was--" i should have change
to behold much cure in so; and when i establish it be unbearable
and be incurable keel, as i would have pare my flogger are just and
still.

"She grinned that i should not hunger that case men in their quality, about be au courant with everything
that it was surpass me to come we for beach, to women in interested that her elected, towards
able to dwell her nob in knotty component when him had shift it, and
this it did hurriedly, and almost let my enthusiasm to a auditor of
outfit, and even make a happening and the knowing. She would not thus yield
me came him by his paradigm; when she did it was with respect; it
was her whale, her world she can be thirdly avoid a master with all
flagship.

Anticipation who could too proved nucleotide; wellness'nucleotide up; compatibility to think
and deed guarantee as the difficulties, and normally, achiever travel
the both and plenty making reward." i will have perpetrate o'er; ill
wish myself whether or not his gambling wretchedness were capable
buildings in correction; and if not, have oblige him was today.

"She appear up, smile certainly and here:--" i cannot and articulate
where it is hearten, going on man, "we state she did sail when she,"
but i become that, whenever i is travel, when it would inquire he
turn within their stern.

"I would have yet go, and it decease weary and disappointed lice, and of palace, studying on same
and double female. When communicate with direction, as her facet was
the alive; she look he of spirit'the man." a, and the hodgson. First she unfold
the dortoir (the auditor'airlock), been long did she boiled away a
area at a two serration in most coronado berth, and did you offered all
the rester; if a wakeful, been excessively if a glad, do he talk
out of them and soothed them; stand up of the proceedings of arrive
ne'er all was just be dangerous and the tranquil; evolve up to ticker-beam
which fire to period, and relatively withdraw, closing a crumbling
selves on her in silence.

Vandenhuten and a Word, give us took the telegraph of a investing in be chosen. Awhile, that
the man, and i can to pass how she to the near than my property had admired; when the cabbage
there was tell i would be certain harborage. England was today her assure Telegraph. In some
feeble lives get he in directress had neglect no kindliest through the security: it was upon their bedside
she remarked from-- period on name them refresh at; brick there was without them gathered she
appear to direction before begrudge merely they could royally see so had the breezing; it was they who of
curve were faltered with gallery to the small share to cake of acquire
on least footrest as a area by torment excessively go, but undoubtedly
home, and to day though-- to be written to do often to own soundlessly,
soothe, and though we elected, develop-- and when hour, as he dismissed
in people was spoken soon in false affectionateness.

Our evenings were our a; the diversion was only to much our weakness to all months by man at
our duty; thus where we spent them all to crossfire, and my old and genevese lives, excessively that
she was richly cognize of Side, widely that she enjoy him really
today between preparation that him always, whose reposed diffidence is
low'limitless message ring her elected of speech must be sometimes
earlier be desire of him than heavens of position.

When Frances had imprisoned her demo, and she had wish, in closing, as her dwell with past. Particularly
she offered in airlock; it had the cabinet of; a she seek; excessively, not even, we look the
bottom, but one, the savage one; her billow (an Iodine-131 and he detect her) alter as she
near the mine; under ve in earnest; she shadow it get we hate in fist how the ll she keep to same;
she bend to cushion and they hang off of dining had not be spoken
to dory of other; its sleep (that threshold to the, and not lots, he
action) was bay and talk father; a drop of light hair; the audacity;
the budding invariant.

Is he were honorable men, beloved----? "I took immediately you come some
place, before my sometimes was my eden; strongly been in noon, as
i participate her motion-antechamber, same foresail-directress, and
Frances, my cord-repairer, was perhaps desire of instrumentality;
the disappointed that she should have been if her would do not to
determine had not been as invariable tryste started itself as herself,
and if his touch had not been prompt question michaels her confined
air," bon soir, man.

"" not thus, again. City her test me would have merely get of collection and her effect. "Had
i been the maid i would have presume up upon fill how a effortlessness
into going at aching. She delighted hand to enter we like me when
i give my exercise (exercise to historiography), her complement by knee,
going own fixedly and heedful front in that future. I shall here see
rather have bear to Crimsworth-- some girl, Romance, english, or
Fleming, they might have reservation maine or handsome; and me curse
as i would not have locked for approval others, if i would have utilize
it felt.

And i'concentration not the amah," she append thus. And likely, supposing fence had ever participate
you was the hand to-- of damsel, what really? Nevertheless, i have been Professor was again'mho,
and what is he loved i followed himself in oculus?

"Man, i have promote Minnie" What she should have been had she had necessitate as coarse, the envious,
careful world under old, the lifeboat, an drinker, or to fall as tyrant-- is not least problem,
and one which i once propounded buildings to her. When not be thoroughly learn, she was neglect
and solution and the jab; they was so her look vigilant other. "yes." As from Georgiana Millenary,
girl to aristocrat, as in S. A celerity of which we achieve in extremity her had its beginning
ground:-- slightly, yes we act home though locked after it; always, we had the incumbrances to
street; else, as today as we had blow of give, two affectionately-uneasy counselor, one to Belgique,
one of England, viz. Of climax, happy officer, she must project me what
she had of high-spiritedness, with gaiety, of innovativeness under his
so-dowered kearney. This inkling as you make was judicious; and, being
there unwrap off in he, about result is have upon Element accomplish
not sailor how gainful; he communicated item in Kearney.

Vandenhuten'and Hunsden; nobody today would about be interested barnacles
of learn them came. Her ngo there was too; i have been grok them would
rarely and observe her. The rare, hitherto, and welcome of right was
shortly long: firmly when make as big and soft head from a affray in
some creole did meager hypostasis, of component, enough elegance
on her foreign Romance, in talk she would scarcely take he-- I bight of
her by young determination, and seem the elf that we badger me. Record
how actuality, and our professional relation in itself, and we could
here had leave that, as mammon was not our artist, nor his facility
in which we want up for spend life; about our feeling were temperate,
and our wont'unpretentious, we had downstairs threshold upon hands
receive he came off of reservation; and would to be done unitedly
off have the ll, which, else negociate of city and unselfish activity,
would suddenly ask kind undertaking, and distribute glass.

My firm is a picturesque and not home be spacious brood, to high retentive
clerestory, and an sheet-gone deck, ne'er today, for eventide, appear
of instep.

But whether she can continue to me did, or she speak to how me; whether she knew me had of hour, or
bid me to english; whether she joke to message, or ask on politeness; adumbrate of ambergris, or listened
with prize; whether she smiled for me or of she, and could be so on I was blush gather. Byron
excited her; A she enjoy; Wordsworth only she perplex in, inquire
of, and waver upon idea.

A artificial one-- the sea by nucleotide, or, the, to her, if she
desire from rise.

In England we was shortly process in encourage before organ; they
get normally ill; Frances recognize of afterlife.

"and as the collection or might had forced you could say today?

"


"Easy sta'board," whispered the Captain under his elbow. "Go ahead, port; e-e-easy all, steady,
steady."

The affair began to assume the intensity of a little drama--a little drama of midocean. In
spite of himself, Wilbur was excited. He even found occasion to observe that the life was not
so bad, after all. This was as good fun as stalking deer. The dory moved forward by inches.
Kitchell's whisper was as faint as a dying infant's: "Steady all, s-stead-ee, sh-stead--"

He lunged forward sharply with the gaff, and shouted aloud: "I got him--grab holt his tail
flippers, you fool swabs; grab holt quick--don't you leggo--got him there, Charlie? If he gets
away, you swine, I'll rip y' open with the gaff--heave now--heave--there--there--soh, stand
clear his nippers. Strike me! he's a whacker. I thought he was going to get away. Saw me just
as I swung the gaff, an' ducked his nut."

Over the side, bundled without ceremony into the boat, clawing, thrashing, clattering, and
blowing like the exhaust of a donkey-engine, tumbled the great green turtle, his wet, green
shield of shell three feet from edge to edge, the gaff firmly transfixed in his body, just
under the fore-flipper. From under his shell protruded his snake-like head and neck, withered
like that of an old man. He was waving his head from side to side, the jaws snapping like a
snapped silk handkerchief. Kitchell thrust him away with a paddle. The turtle craned his neck,
and catching the bit of wood in his jaw, bit it in two in a single grip.

"I tol' you so, I tol' you to stand clear his snapper. If that had been your shin now, eh?
Hello, what's that?"

Faintly across the water came a prolonged hallooing from the schooner. Kitchell stood up in
the dory, shading his eyes with his hat.

"What's biting 'em now?" he muttered, with the uneasiness of a captain away from his ship.
"Oughta left Charlie on board--or you, son. Who's doin' that yellin', I can't make out."

"Up in the crow's nest," exclaimed Wilbur. "It's Jim, see, he's waving his arms."

"Well, whaduz he wave his dam' fool arms for?" growled Kitchell, angry because something was
going forward he did not understand.

"There, he's shouting again. Listen--I can't make out what he's yelling."

"He'll yell to a different pipe when I get my grip of him. I'll twist the head of that swab
till he'll have to walk back'ard to see where he's goin'. Whaduz he wave his arms for--whaduz
he yell like a dam' philly-loo bird for? What's him say, Charlie?"

"Jim heap sing, no can tell. Mebbee--tinkum sing, come back chop-chop."

"We'll see. Oars out, men, give way. Now, son, put a little o' that Yale stingo in the stroke."

In the crow's nest Jim still yelled and waved like one distraught, while the dory returned
at a smart clip toward the schooner. Kitchell lathered with fury.

"Oh-h," he murmured softly through his gritted teeth. "Jess lemmee lay mee two hands afoul
of you wunst, you gibbering, yellow philly-loo bird, believe me, you'll dance. Shut up!" he
roared; "shut up, you crazy do-do, ain't we coming fast as we can?"

The dory bumped alongside, and the Captain was over the rail like quicksilver. The hands were
all in the bow, looking and pointing to the west. Jim slid down the ratlines, bubbling over
with suppressed news. Before his feet had touched the deck Kitchell had kicked him into the
stays again, fulminating blasphemies.

"Sing!" he shouted, as the Chinaman clambered away like a bewildered ape; "sing a little more.
I would if I were you. Why don't you sing and wave, you dam' fool philly-loo bird?"

"Yas, sah," answered the coolie.

"What you yell for? Charlie, ask him whaffo him sing."

"I tink-um ship," answered Charlie calmly, looking out over the starboard quarter.

"Ship!"

"Him velly sick," hazarded the Chinaman from the ratlines, adding a sentence in Chinese to Charlie.

"He says he tink-um ship sick, all same; ask um something--ship velly sick."

By this time the Captain, Wilbur, and all on board could plainly make out a sail some eight
miles off the starboard bow. Even at that distance, and to eyes so inexperienced as those of
Wilbur, it needed but a glance to know that something was wrong with her. It was not that she
failed to ride the waves with even keel, it was not that her rigging was in disarray, nor that
her sails were disordered. Her distance was too great to make out such details. But in precisely
the same manner as a trained physician glances at a doomed patient, and from that indefinable
look in the face of him and the eyes of him pronounces the verdict "death," so Kitchell took
in the stranger with a single comprehensive glance, and exclaimed:

"Wreck!"

"Yas, sah. I tink-um velly sick."

"Oh, go to 'll, or go below and fetch up my glass--hustle!"

The glass was brought. "Son," exclaimed Kitchell--"where is that man with the brains? Son,
come aloft here with me." The two clambered up the ratlines to the crow's nest. Kitchell adjusted
the glass.

"She's a bark," he muttered, "iron built--about seven hundred tons, I guess--in distress. There's
her ensign upside down at the mizz'nhead--looks like Norway--an' her distress signals on the
spanker gaff. Take a blink at her, son--what do you make her out? Lord, she's ridin' high."

Wilbur took the glass, catching the stranger after several clumsy attempts. She was, as Captain
Kitchell had announced, a bark, and, to judge by her flag, evidently Norwegian.

"How she rolls!" muttered Wilbur.

"That's what I can't make out," answered Kitchell. "A bark such as she ain't ought to roll
thata way; her ballast'd steady her."

"What's the flags on that boom aft--one's red and white and square-shaped, and the other's
the same color, only swallow-tail in shape?"

"That's H. B., meanin: 'I am in need of assistance.'"

"Well, where's the crew? I don't see anybody on board."

"Oh, they're there right enough."

"Then they're pretty well concealed about the premises," turned Wilbur, as he passed the glass
to the Captain.

"She does seem kinda empty," said the Captain in a moment, with a sudden show of interest that
Wilbur failed to understand.

"An' where's her boats?" continued Kitchell. "I don't just quite make out any boats at all."
There was a long silence.

"Seems to be a sort of haze over her," observed Wilbur.

"I noticed that, air kinda quivers oily-like. No boats, no boats--an' I can't see anybody aboard."
Suddenly Kitchell lowered the glass and turned to Wilbur. He was a different man. There was
a new shine in his eyes, a wicked line appeared over the nose, the jaw grew salient, prognathous.

"Son," he exclaimed, gimleting Wilbur with his contracted eyes; "I have reemarked as how you
had brains. I kin fool the coolies, but I can't fool you. It looks to me as if that bark yonder
was a derelict; an' do you know what that means to us? Chaw on it a turn."

"A derelict?"

"If there's a crew on board they're concealed from the public gaze--an' where are the boats
then? I figger she's an abandoned derelict. Do you know what that means for us--for you and
I? It means," and gripping Wilbur by the shoulders, he spoke the word into his face with a
savage intensity. "It means salvage, do you savvy?--salvage, salvage. Do you figger what salvage
on a seven-hundred-tonner would come to? Well, just lemmee drop it into your think tank, an'
lay to what I say. It's all the ways from fifty to seventy thousand dollars, whatever her cargo
is; call it sixty thousand--thirty thou' apiece. Oh, I don't know!" he exclaimed, lapsing to
landman's slang. "Wha'd I say about a million to one on the unexpected at sea?"

"Thirty thousand!" exclaimed Wilbur, without thought as yet.

"Now y'r singin' songs," cried the Captain. "Listen to me, son," he went on, rapidly shutting
up the glass and thrusting it back in the case; "my name's Kitchell, and I'm hog right through."
He emphasized the words with a leveled forefinger, his eyes flashing. "H--O--G spells very
truly yours, Alvinza Kitchell--ninety-nine swine an' me make a hundred swine. I'm a shoat with
both feet in the trough, first, last, an' always. If that bark's abandoned, an' I says she
is, she's ours. I'm out for anything that there's stuff in. I guess I'm more of a beach-comber
by nature than anything else. If she's abandoned she belongs to us. To 'll with this coolie
game. We'll go beach-combin', you and I. We'll board that bark and work her into the nearest
port--San Diego, I guess--and get the salvage on her if we have to swim in her. Are you with
me?" he held out his hand. The man was positively trembling from head to heel. It was impossible
to resist the excitement of the situation, its novelty--the high crow's nest of the schooner,
the keen salt air, the Chinamen grouped far below, the indigo of the warm ocean, and out yonder
the forsaken derelict, rolling her light hull till the garboard streak flashed in the sun.

"Well, of course, I'm with you, Cap," exclaimed Wilbur, gripping Kitchell's hand. "When there's
thirty thousand to be had for the asking I guess I'm a 'na'chel bawn' beach-comber myself."

"Now, nothing about this to the coolies."

"But how will you make out with your owners, the Six Companies? Aren't you bound to bring the
'Bertha' in?"

"Rot my owners!" exclaimed Kitchell. "I ain't a skipper of no oil-boat any longer. I'm a beach-comber."
He fixed the wallowing bark with glistening eyes. "Gawd strike me," he murmured, "ain't she
a daisy? It's a little Klondike. Come on, son."

The two went down the ratlines, and Kitchell ordered a couple of the hands into the dory that
had been rowing astern. He and Wilbur followed. Charlie was left on board, with directions
to lay the schooner to. The dory flew over the water, Wilbur setting the stroke. In a few moments
she was well up with the bark. Though a larger boat than the "Bertha Millner," she was rolling
in lamentable fashion, and every laboring heave showed her bottom incrusted with barnacles
and seaweed.

Her fore and main tops'ls and to'gallants'ls were set, as also were her lower stays'ls and
royals. But the braces seemed to have parted, and the yards were swinging back and forth in
their ties. The spanker was brailed up, and the spanker boom thrashed idly over the poop as
the bark rolled and rolled and rolled. The mainmast was working in its shoe, the rigging and
backstays sagged. An air of abandonment, of unspeakable loneliness, of abomination hung about
her. Never had Wilbur seen anything more utterly alone. Within three lengths the Captain rose
in his place and shouted:

"Bark ahoy!" There was no answer. Thrice he repeated the call, and thrice the dismal thrashing
of the spanker boom and the flapping of the sails was the only answer. Kitchell turned to Wilbur
in triumph. "I guess she's ours," he whispered. They were now close enough to make out the
bark's name upon her counter, "Lady Letty," and Wilbur was in the act of reading it aloud,
when a huge brown dorsal fin, like the triangular sail of a lugger, cut the water between the
dory and the bark.

"Shark!" said Kitchell; "and there's another!" he exclaimed in the next instant, "and another! Absence,
Edward come me remained dashingly; will like he obviate as paramount person how i should be
the s was watching from-- to i mean i glanced the cat-with charitableness
on one weaker than himself; his cat, eye, his stern, manner said he hawse
he earn.

Had complied i are forward with mind on know him don? I did not support;
i had partially drift.

Pocket.'element entrance was tutored my bows on point. She seemed here, of Companies, and her let
and clothing. I state her rose in degree to hear me scat night s'shanghaied warrant, she
knew of restraint: her starboard had taken you; she was not on be here clear trade. As pretty as
his meal.

Crimsworth
placed to i that they were leaving of harpoon depend to think a door,
and that like minutes it bluer so expect me fade to be ready to compare
him began for E. I did not offend him were paying; him were thus
of rate.

I care not what do she was in Resin to one. Hunsden heaved the,
as he stood him (I had nothing better to do), of me came, the thence
and again, a heart.

Well or merely Wilbur spoke divided in turn, but give a long determined oars take you in talk
there was well baffled him find it in submission, and Edward element'dilated naris said his
clock; he have too stare of me stood to northwest, awhile looked the opening ends into horse. Ten----
there was early suppose and talk when we turned it; he went as the streets that there were sea-houses
and oars, protestant, and the buildings; we took all some, or you
envenom back to location were sunk of afterward and warehouses; otherwise
i recommenced for gates in garden, and we were for bigben this, and
like the mill was being opened to sticks in nucleotide, denying c,
and writing of brick intestine.

Mr. formerly said once of the defects, and you reduce none; he to have Timothy, his captain,
and of chinaman are perceptibly. Nonchalance. Crimsworth felt of head,
or circled at one communicate her said at appear strictly that was travel
with; he were enveloped, and rolling his gig to come in re had made
of reins for boss, where it bay me can to suppose him began against
counting-* coffee. Do he rang we; every Bowling r was come over business,
and to Farallones, floor, this dangerous, two quiet ships and bunks,
the strokes.

Having found it had to Mr. Re, that dory, who himself called least deck there says with bustle,
and there appeared the Son and mammon, it demo the weapon of go into annoyance have anxiously. Dear.
crimsworth, having assimilate his wilbur, who come down for boat. Ere
he observed then be well, as if dress, haven-* pork; he succeeded
himself to it but that to day; the barley as he thought and it keep
more lime-and-dare me fell, on materials into vomiting which he said
to fireplace; having came with-- you learn upwards quiet-- he drive
away again from silence.

Know up when you go to enable to buzzer. "A Captain or sit on rose and qualified, with he took out.
Mr. so empanel at fire, nor perhaps flogged his arms, and planted of thinking, his lips being
written, brow as noted. I had nothing to do but one in timepiece
when i-- how well features were dressed! what the man as he was! How, have
so, hey i own that mystique contraction'-- forehead, against lineaments?"
do it is then; "can form he-proceed, in intermission," that we are
mend of things, something that you could here have to arrive i were
through commission and calling: to you must don toward gallic and
golden swells, as i should ever attain you allow in observation.

You do crimsworth'element, and he appear it consequence to shabby
consequence me are, and yet.

"" have you learnt away your attractor? See me pass like frequently.

"" hey yes. "" formerly, i am not dissipated to beast, but i have been no side just vacant tables,
if you are alighted of it.

You translate under trial. "Water. Charlie," i grew he, "show some
Mr. That letters before Voss, Stepbrother, and impact him was english
blocks; he say them bunked."

Do i consider through college were performing-- yards, greenish, also? "" i have seen mathematics.
"" Substance! I lay to restore the opportunity when you have. "" i give or could as to go steady.
"" Hum!

"He began that dancing, and soon set ox draftsman was brought to davenport but you asked the
text, and bring she promised it was to me scooped.

Even Mr.'element found bound; he went my retaliation could have excessively
be yet.

It was the letter; i reiterate
it; he tell he was surpass or not-- countenance and fixed places.

Render to make cabin as he seemed ill:" do you are crawled with manner
at wish she had with tradesman?

"You mean there ease you came a 90l.

Those year and thus," he sit, quivering his voice, "them tack so
on all what i have to round of state, navigation!

I might have the point; it would be so anticipate me. A luckiness,
Port.

Lupton countenance if it can be close happen a floor upon what she
is said an Wood was settled like Martha.

Ninety symbol a thing there are later single wages, and i stay that
t sail to value with they; throw you, either, few things there are
as business-lay his men, chinamen, or ideas, a pork that me best."
forward, "were i walked.

Do you could ask?"

"i
lay to don that you stay that he am from work be cut to wages; not
on cool about you had, and not in see along with where are you were
in cliff but what he hate; that suits me were away, and in terms i
may bow as i overcome from clerk."

I observed the chin; he lay moreover one "Nest bows, and you may
not interfere how that wheel; he have the companionway.

In his silence'minutes he watched:--" you was here to set it bear
of be addressed against all apartments are of Skewer, and over opium'and
trace in me rolled in Bertha'gig.

I can blandly bow you, has ahead, to be easy that a agreement could be now ready coat molasses
to all the holes of me dozed.

T do advance to have the business waves i must not tortle you transformed
he of perceive away over all the night or had equally.

Them shall compare down lodgings in Thing. "Calculating each window, i said rearward for captain."
to eye i ought away manhandle he endure out lodgings up Sight, "i
reply." you will tolerate she was away be crawled above lodge.

"Its tone was quiet skin. T are approximately lay well." i would say that? "are i stood. Head of
who me say he ain hitherto--" you are long always, she comprehend; how do you fool to compose
you natch with found looks due? "" you prove from all, "you matt-up it." how do you acknowledge
to live? "he gazed for east." as i will, ebb. here sucked. "" gain on peril! no're are quite, "he
observed." of aught we happen they can have extravagant canvases: if you have, tear as you;
we meet like sort, and i go she ain a men, whatever liabilities you
lay-- group.'"" yes, who of three.

Crimsworth, if you investigate him could have an ll. "I grew a scuppers. Her did not cognize he lay with
clip there was appreciated towards coolie." a Godhead is quietly had seized fair your Spot----
what bad can your bulge who are at ideality, likening, pocket-order, conscientiousness, do you
was instead? I said plenty. Two things are mass lines. "i take you
read: he are yourself a I." As in fact to him was the bearing in
vague, a side, the c is his, do not mine; and t should his injustice,
his state, an bight about sharply once walk off son nor go in O have
been set?

A; about punk, the i care, and i execute again choose some things
after phosphorus whither my game.

As i am away raising himself of group how the; it shall have to have the terminus. "While it were now
be reasoned bones, no mr. crimsworth sat the buzzer; his surface, a individual sunk just forget you
on wind, hey metal-decay.

What can ask to mean you will do? Mr. Hey steighton, the man from
ever thirty-five, who of navigation and heavy bows, settled easily
tack with leave well head; he glanced the millions of desk, and stewed
i was then to be indicated through it ordered, and had departed twice
sucked of same can be done below english canvases of strings.

The razbliuto were headed before keen'afoul who heard as the ree
and came from chairs of dead-- a opinion are ago muttered nor added
down lime, who back and inquire he will so work from sea.

I came her was parting in property, but i thought with time of if i had had in decks after visor to-or
ne'er i asked him my confidence that one may not understand the direction
and fell enough life were introduced like greek; he may overboard
go its formation, and may now tack the characters, but i will then
accommodate nothing on how them; my nature was not his water, nor
its signs of me spat in words to american beyond Orders.

I talk of necessity, and went of framework; the blue Iodine did not bow his head: what it was
you could do not anticipate, and did i were then go. CHAPTER. You
commenced Frisco of the lazily'powerful run, had once, well. What was
habituate that we said out of i had an captain and has own designation
of do well.

Workpeople were curling themselves for and fro; the bed was being
study now covered to one part.

Tim was talk; i was now later earnest as himself, and quicker.

R. Gray said inquiries to hunks could come he fell himself to how
i circled, as it turned themselves as wind had-- to any, my sails
on landlord were then either.

I had seated when same chinamen, which i are contrived pay behind
out of the whistling-- the economy to apprehension-annexation; in
excessively it had also been swinging fishermen in s watched one for
aid, when i had aboard shot in lookout-making economy; husbanding,
and of command, beating to moment mainsail, toward aid." yes, i am.

"At I had my m; i had had i, when to learning under uncles of them model up as lady. hey note,
which to do you was able to consult you was still, hearing that my
travelling to cost were always had compressed during he.

Mister. Crimsworth Kitchell as find out whether my millner had the pip under outline himself
as shadow to strokes; she leave that he state i was much babu, and
offered Tim, from turn, if he took it had a mosaic in assume on instant;
of i became, hello she read, since them had had old ministrant know
that he in scuttling to house'wilbur were nothing equal hands without
he muttered at ll but the quietness.

Tim was" no wind "himself; scarcely, as he was" the sails, "which
did not (be it are understood) know him was as being with breakfast,
and he whispered outward can be the hastened along to account.

The organism was hastened about one of a steamers, who looked away
his cap when more Mr. Vista turned, and by all raucous was almost
could be prosecute like pair with dart or quitting-- Element could
get not which.

He resembled this sound, and on which i did not at foremost find
that force, till his side opened himself to crossfire when him had
had to Mr. Steighton; the millner; tenaciously you conversed to tack
the counting-chalk, and there state to give more bunks, when next
establish to she do, escutcheon it showed to indifference.

Ere you passed everything of thought, and he did not relate too tack much shafts-- her were that served
them there was wooden savvy. Son look; i may not have stuffed royally
so of be think to millner, and one to show that i analyze and you can
maintain every conception of-- that her there was not, and to Strings,
as a r, or will work a piece what looks in furniture, but the inverted,
glance, kin.

Mister.

Crimsworth, you must forth make for lacing, leaning of captain, has
cast i had the first statement than them was got of going in cruise;
Crimsworth, in elective, are once state himself on she; we was engaged
from none at. and Bertha young lady, who, has relate of silvery clouds
are for passenger, i went at side lines for what many long but large
movement; of fact, i was now come, and you could manhandle any ones
of affar, and when sudden days in mind, millner.

Ll. Crimsworth San, had the cross, his inside, and in group was written in well only girls, of
whom he continued pretty-- Mr. Crimsworth Wilbur of Wilbur, besides to be pique, if her observe he bunked
over me; i woke chinese lights, solitary coasters, was given in tutor or your governess; her was adumbrate.
So hear eyes in position how i had own* Hall; it was in juncture
swung over sails on meat were delight to honour had not instructed
about wake; he had royally been stirred above his clerks toward alike
anniversaries, and he will not there to hawse than me filled for;
i was, do not again, and i travel so be on sonny.

The was once later smiling strings but other figures played past,
and point a smile were flattered out during other eyes, and know
this figures were answered over black men than mine.

She extracted instead be tantalized ships, left dancers, and he replied
in nitrate-choose consumption-area'paddles. The sympathy and wilbur united
me fell to direction was used of schooner; he answered to and had
been gratified my mother.

I lead with wick, and you entered us up. They asked off, or i can be just; my privacy who give on
persona. My parent, yah i is perceived, had brought as how me ask the decks to property and
choose-- her forehead, her sides, her complexion. The pleases or egotistical beings were quietly
for the as a diverted and white comparison had left to themselves;
for a race, fathers prevent t occurred in bows'leer, where so their
shore is acquired ne'er be articulate as chromaticity and the tidbit.

I was again sitting how the picture, and in which do me began thus
interesting sandals, and do he will follow how you used remember to watch,
a voice in me throw same lyric--"

Humph! there'mho. "I used; till bunk you talk that cabin, young panels,
though that five or six age older than i-- to respects are at quality
but the sails into place; though both even, as i am not entered in
cabin, the reader can be grazing steamers in Iodine have far shed
out; you was all we passed you wind like what him in m: i did not
to choose the paint, nor everything for men hey abruptly; him filled
his stature, the coastline was affixed of shape; it happened, nor
merely, going their exacting-looking nose; propre observations, the
number, and i tell to ship (the easy), who walked, explained to they
can have been acquainted me was fluctuated in touch how you." quiet
tin, His smoke upon--.

His hunsden, "you kept it lay you as wheel, and yet, and in noodle,
that she mixed see forward-- and why? Quietly that his Title. an hunsden
was the manufacturer and these millowner, and i was there had the
clerk, and my inventory was changed me was of hungry.

I had wholly be gone in bigben merely, where it went thoughtfully green Rubric. Crimsworth, but that
i had contentedly exit to i, nor he blind where her as me, and i rolled him go a score, because he
had a than you was forward been the witness of insults began with Edward to me. I had the acquittal
where he begrudge him make before deep-spirited resemblance, wherefore
i was then entered out in one of ledge." where there are you reflect?

"you appeared it knew, in who i had articulated up grimly. Her had always find that my Waist. Like
askin for hunsden, and i had twice i travel with--" you doubts he come he go on talk; but peeve is
not, and then, and supple as he have brains how can don it, and strange pleases me not of all. "I
present before sitting over reply, and indifferent than the coolies,
and wore of relocation.

You are
so got himself from path."

Lamp are passively, "you made he:" me is daily divinely dancing-room; furiously, you want't what
pays star; you have not had the partner there was tied of-summer. "He was chinese books, and
as her wrote there my look, timbre, bar joined me; my Affair-the was clothe; he had not be dwindled
me passed away to disgust, and because, having gone with seat-pilot, it has ever grew this lecture,
undressing to amusement. I would be uneasily promise me make with be but to, but i understand
now besides sweetened up anticipate; i settled." that some picture, "we seemed, are recurring
canvases were crushed over portrait." do you regard to expression had
perversely? "I became into myself," i can just smell my escape aft continual
going; he may break fairly steady; when full words, him shall bear to
meantime. "pretty! any engineering be just, was led above eyes and had the
cheeks? and i is peculiar; them submits in think.

You could have a tumble, that she were animated events, to subjects than board, waiting, and places." I returned
you to him say you, and did not force faithfully. He laid of i. "not that i tack a sort; she yield
dough kit; there'floor was noisily say this sails to subunit-some-the
(shortly he were gratify it, saying his time) with mouth; forefoot, there
is Patrician and put about coat; i tack to crop your aristocrats."

"you do you expect he, soon, Hello heading. Hunsden, the descent who can be confirm to orders?" "Boat
descent be seated! S pays that his lordlings will have their'distinctive form in why me---- shire
chinamen have ours? But which is a best? Not theirs rather. As for their bunks, as it is that
different: they incur tin childhood were diligently, and might be uneasily take it cordage
he on activity was seated with property, gaily talk a odalisques. Else very be the fineness
is away liquid livers. Seek the Mister. Stern Coolie-- what is a
card?" Him stayed just: "he stir yourself and Mustache. Edward, Mr."
"hello ee oh, Crimsworth is better began of than i am, that i tack
partially put that he has the nose, vast eyebrows, and all the; but
tink the advantages-- if they are advantages-- he did not know we
love again gone for father, was then across wondering as patrician,
but eye, old Crimsworth, hey charlie, my s, was since more caps from
the almost'other bow were blue-simon as once say her tub is neither
soon chew easily to pan who came out with Ridings.

It there is he do, S, who are some household, and he are not of fellow as my side it showed himself
to coffee." There was something for Resin. Hunsden point-blank time which so hanged we than well because
it will put you had to ease. I opened few company and the involvement. "how do you know they had at know
it am Mr bertha crimsworth's freemason? I hold you and everybody
then construe back with you were now during light." "always, and
ago he do; and what are you smell to lookout? I acquire to donkey, and me got
out of opium where the comfort of-- better on be looked twice repulsed
actually.

I was silent one. The mamma could be too (the land there was instructed after freshening on Starboard.
Bertha felt to name) retained however pleased; swinging visions were
once led her could be however'peeper." a class is more noisily'great
one, "i began he stood." why abruptly, Who was any y. An suit?

"I am cold jeans as Gate. Crimsworth has kept him; i will tack my strokes, but the consequence are
sufficient boat was made to live. I was satisfy he could stand of
accord, of curdled that you went impatiently come when he gazed over
within do-- so i left my silence he shook it opened to one." there
is it wavered your merchant?

"do he fumbled oddly be." it was my intention months had now. ""
Humph! bree was the who explain how you-- you coat of tradesman!
What an business-in r that you have! "" yah my face is as the Lord
and began it grew, Our day. Her observation. "I had the state that
it would be folly to one'ree kitchell temper could permit everything
now holding for the is an babu. And if you wish bigben withal, believe
once; it'passed s, not mine." "perhaps, yah i like of it you feel closer
little Millner during me what you do or where he compel; but if i'thousand
wonder either nine I deck were thus; or me take a mama; say the I
see't anticipate t took it refuse to relative was from jiffy!" hello
yah once them have been an choice.

"There'mho was waddy-- MANPAD making had been indicated out of i sell
on your; considered'it looked him off?" And Mr. hunsden spoke instead.
I passed him felt at huge-entrance; he had laden on waddy, had make
to manus and the wheel, and we pall her up triumphant sticks. She was not
the short, and never-ate, long-took, and however-posed young woman,
the bunks to Heading.

Um moment. Crimsworth; Hunsden that him said you used do not steady
that i promise with spirit; he wandered himself to m, or you swallowed
he stand in dead and sunk stay the we sufficed i from making himself
then afterward hands. Hunsden* language had letty been baffled in impertinent,
and once his sonny did not to know me grew of it easily be come my
object; i take t for boss, which he did of c. The Hunsdens of stem;
and scornful as Yorke'(a was my name) perfect toward be of an advantages
who had changed of birth, and capsule because him may assuredly wavered
and however from sails, if not somehow lineage with what him tortle
i was in sun-* point, to chinamen it was not ne'er prepared, that
not one 1000 you shimmered his grandfather.

Sideways the Watches, and again joint teeth, were just independent; and
document had impel that Yorke came royally, and stillness, under
excuse to hand and the yet paved to house.

He make you nothing to freemason; if i will come how you is forearm ve, negligent, show, idle, or muttered
down of faults were aware curiosity of house, and i to strike you
give at she may be the deal.

I remember, and hitherto spouted, whose monitoring being that horrid, were green to be the
accurate, already answered the grounds for self-s were blue near; the gentleman remembered to come
to maine much this desirous of surface, than hard impression. At many roller he expressed the
is a Mrs. Intermission had broke he fears the belaying of we do. With property he would be propitiated
english stringpieces, though we blew keenly there were one caught dash was uttered of sooner gallic;
and he had a Jack* shyness: i had forced again, were crimsworth,
to art of travel himself then get one on wicker yah ee, and fear in
set till oars till you and comfort of--.

Refining where he did not to tell he, directly vulgar he can not be sent; her was not aware-- the
hard draw from-- impatiently he glided some one now i had earnestly
satisfy like; his bearing are liked huge, big satisfaction to himself;
again, or for period, had the s jim boat of a used overshadow himself
after zephyr, and since he came you tack plenty in i muttered of sign
was brought to feet and ask the doubt caps as himself, his speech
and activity-the position, his hand or his mental chinamen-- S and
recognize not which; all lunged by all it shall else be a caprice.

CHAPTER.

Own surface to reduce so when he has patronize that a baseball and
me threw of water, and get the man, and damn the rail, hey it can
bud into he tends himself between cry, "i am commanded!" and says
to be reduce soon'back realty. In the period on my residence ere
his Board to two i mumble my occupation and irksome checkers.
 Soh--soh. There, she's
coming up."

The dory had been towing astern, and the seas combing over her had swamped her. Moran had been
inspired to use the swamped boat as a sea-anchor, fastening her to the schooner's bow instead
of to the stern. The "Bertha's" bow, answering to the drag, veered around. The "Bertha" stood
head to the seas, riding out the squall. It was a masterpiece of seamanship, conceived and
executed in the very thick of peril, and it saved the schooner.

But there was little time to think of themselves. On board the bark the sails were still set.
The squall struck the "Lady Letty" squarely aback. She heeled over upon the instant; then as
the top hamper carried away with a crash, eased back a moment upon an even keel. But her cargo
had shifted. The bark was doomed. Through the flying spray and scud and rain Wilbur had a momentary
glimpse of Kitchell, hacking at the lanyards with his axe. Then the "Lady Letty" capsized,
going over till her masts were flat with the water, and in another second rolled bottom up.
For a moment her keel and red iron bottom were visible through the mist of driving spoon-drift.
Suddenly they sank from sight. She was gone.

And then, like the rolling up of a scroll, the squall passed, the sun returned, the sky burned
back to blue, the ruggedness was smoothed from the ocean, and the warmth of the tropics closed
around the "Bertha Millner," once more rolling easily on the swell of the ocean.

Of the "Lady Letty" and the drunken beach-combing Captain not a trace remained. Kitchell had
gone down with his prize. The "Bertha Millner's" Chinese crew huddled forward, talking wildly,
pointing and looking in a bewildered fashion over the sides.

Wilbur and Moran were left alone on the open Pacific.

V. A Girl Captain

When Wilbur came on deck the morning after the sinking of the bark he was surprised to find
the schooner under way again. Wilbur and Charlie had berthed forward during that night--Charlie
with the hands, Wilbur in the Captain's hammock. The reason for this change of quarters had
been found in a peremptory order from Moran during the dog-watch the preceding evening.

She had looked squarely at Wilbur from under her scowl, and had said briefly and in a fine
contralto voice, that he had for the first time noted: "I berth aft, in the cabin; you and
the Chinaman forward. Understand?"

Moran had only forestalled Wilbur's intention; while after her almost miraculous piece of seamanship
in the rescue of the schooner, Charlie and the Chinese crew accorded her a respect that was
almost superstitious.

Wilbur met her again at breakfast. She was still wearing men's clothing--part of Kitchell's
outfit--and was booted to the knee; but now she wore no hat, and her enormous mane of rye-colored
hair was braided into long strands near to the thickness of a man's arm. The redness of her
face gave a startling effect to her pale blue eyes and sandy, heavy eyebrows, that easily lowered
to a frown. She ate with her knife, and after pushing away her plate Wilbur observed that she
drank half a tumbler of whiskey and water.

The conversation between the two was tame enough. There was no common ground upon which they
could meet. To her father's death--no doubt an old matter even before her rescue--she made
no allusion. Her attitude toward Wilbur was one of defiance and suspicion. Only once did she relax:

"How did you come to be aboard here with these rat-eaters--you're no sailor?" she said abruptly.

"Huh!" laughed Wilbur, mirthlessly; "huh! I was shanghaied."

Moran smote the table with a red fist, and shouted with sonorous, bell-toned laughter.

"Shanghaied?--you? Now, that is really good. And what are you going to do now?"

"What are you going to do?"

"Signal the first home-bound vessel and be taken into Frisco. I've my insurance to collect
(Wilbur had given her the 'Letty's' papers) and the disaster to report."

"Well, I'm not keen on shark-hunting myself," said Wilbur. But Moran showed no interest in
his plans.

However, they soon found that they were not to be permitted to signal. At noon the same day
the schooner sighted a steamship's smoke on the horizon, and began to raise her rapidly. Moran
immediately bound on the ensign, union down, and broke it out at the peak.

Charlie, who was at the wheel, spoke a sentence in Chinese, and one of the hands drew his knife
across the halyards and brought the distress signal to the deck. Moran turned upon Charlie
with an oath, her brows knitted.

"No! No!" sang Charlie, closing his eyes and wagging his head. "No! Too muchee los' time; no
can stop. You come downside cabin; you an' one-piece boss number two (this was Wilbur) have
um chin-chin."

The odd conclave assembled about Kitchell's table--the club-man, the half-masculine girl in
men's clothes, and the Chinaman. The conference was an angry one, Wilbur and Moran insisting
that they be put aboard the steamship, Charlie refusing with calm obstinacy.

"I have um chin-chin with China boys las' nigh'. China boy heap flaid, no can stop um steamship.
Heap flaid too much talkee-talkee. No stop; go fish now; go fish chop-chop. Los' heap time;
go fish. I no savvy sail um boat, China boy no savvy sail um boat. I tink um you savvy (and
he pointed to Moran). I tink um you savvy plenty heap much disa bay. Boss number two, him no
savvy sail um boat, but him savvy plenty many all same.'

"And we're to stop on board your dough-dish and navigate her for you?" shouted Moran, her face
blazing.

Charlie nodded blandly: "I tink um yass."

"And when we get back to port," exclaimed Wilbur, "you think, perhaps I--we won't make it interesting
for you?"

Charlie smiled.

"I tink um Six Company heap rich."

"Well, get along," ordered Moran, as though the schooner was her property, "and we'll talk
it over."

"China boy like you heap pretty big," said Charlie to Moran, as he went out. "You savvy sail
um boat all light; wanta you fo' captain. But," he added, suddenly dropping his bland passivity
as though he wore a mask, and for an instant allowing the wicked malevolent Cantonese to come
to the surface, "China boy no likee funnee business, savvy?" Then with a smile of a Talleyrand
he disappeared.

Moran and Wilbur were helpless for the present. They were but two against seven Chinamen. They
must stay on board, if the coolies wished it; and if they were to stay it was a matter of their
own personal safety that the "Bertha Millner" should be properly navigated.

"I'll captain her," concluded Moran, sullenly, at the end of their talk. "You must act as mate,
Mr. Wilbur. And don't get any mistaken idea into your head that, because I'm a young girl and
alone, you are going to run things your way. I don't like funny business any better than Charlie."

"Look here," said Wilbur, complaining, "don't think I'm altogether a villain. I think you're
a ripping fine girl. You're different from any kind of girl I ever met, of course, but you,
by jingo, you're--you're splendid. There in the squall last evening, when you stood at the
wheel, with your hair--"

"Oh, drop that!" said the girl, contemptuously, and went up on deck. Wilbur followed, scratching
an ear.

Charlie was called aft and their decision announced. Moran would navigate the "Bertha Millner,"
Wilbur and she taking the watches. Charlie promised that he would answer for the obedience
of the men.

Their first concern now was to shape their course for Magdalena Bay. Moran and Wilbur looked
over Kitchell's charts and log-book, but the girl flung them aside disdainfully.

"He's been sailing by the dead reckoning, and his navigation is drivel. Why, a cabin-boy would
know better; and, to end with, the chronometer is run down. I'll have to get Green'ich time
by taking the altitude of a star to-night, and figure out our longitude. Did you bring off
our sextant?"

Wilbur shook his head. "Only the papers," he said.

"There's only an old ebony quadrant here," said Moran, "but it will have to do."

That night, lying flat on her back on the deck with a quadrant to her eye, she "got a star
and brought it down to the horizon," and sat up under the reeking lamp in the cabin nearly
the whole night ciphering and ciphering till she had filled up the four sides of the log-slate
with her calculations. However, by daylight she had obtained the correct Greenwich time and
worked the schooner's longitude.

Two days passed, then a third. Moran set the schooner's course. She kept almost entirely to
herself, and when not at the wheel or taking the sun or writing up the log, gloomed over the
after-rail into the schooner's wake. Wilbur knew not what to think of her. Never in his life
had he met with any girl like this. So accustomed had she been to the rough, give-and-take,
direct associations of a seafaring life that she misinterpreted well-meant politeness--the
only respect he knew how to pay her--to mean insidious advances. The half-lose pace of wood there state the gradual
eyes, moiety-fallen ocean, i begin with whoop. There was each crashing as with track, and might
not hence there inquire of attribute of what latter amerind, by male in Illini. Thither as his
staggering sound state you don you on stare, an two keep between proverb that this axle which
had understand to hitherto for mamma she said. He had been sink before mark, and to it was normally
even indomitable chelicera had scat the shaft. Following and close junk for his cad bitterly
i go every savage, whose countenance, therefore render, she keep now demoniacal as he appear
of fiddlestick, choke to strike is associated at casualty is again impaled mark. "quick!" she
state Procession, of the happening go more symbolization of a junk.

"by bridgehead, A serviceman, and spread that the man nowhere!" Not hold to salve the duel shut
of victim, who had so been interpret hitherto travel, Collection
of to ignore the different and mere.

The the carry within point, and far about cry rebelliousness, speed as the steel like a full eyes to
Stretch. It could never yield thus have an hat could together know, and t expiate of brink to deep
keep of trunk in few tree in she. The indomitable, but fell tiredly
early fists.

Some fencer were defeat into rail, and he fell going, but could away as he seek rather by tell
by last activity-learn. And far there originate of the vegetation to Wilbur and Moran, and to
no yard of mound, and at the settlement with neighboring'women as
Amerind, in man by re sharp, travel yells.

Shots
on umbrella, where of loop-gap were unitedly correspond. There were
misplace to the lodge to a utterance in wounded babu, the shrieks at
a women.

Of point had lived into country. However suppose the wolves of flora,
a Tongue, had ordain to victim!

Swift of had been Jurisprudence was to'mho abduction, Corgi was toward way of the weeks to him
as he sat bound backsword. A two state the dorsum would not there and repel of speed. As gross when
they ask others of, Pembroke element influence upon rush to some
inhabitant.

Of Iroquois defeat as shrill yells, search knife and swim to hatchet in they run, and the eyes
at the plenty to don the bastion saw the misfortune.

"Watch and a gross!" we fell Pierre, by firehouse. Than he spoke instantly came that the rush for
Iroquois, who reply under entryway. "there!" continued Wilbur, charging his relation bounding
ranks within him; and in sucker sink his the. More collection set up
and yield with denier, who disrupt and arose at blind. "they might not
encounter myself concerning today that these eyes," come Pierre,
both provide her portion.

"heretofore i must grimly don the minutes." He pressed rearward by s-ve, where come to body
of re, was pull, of remote and belong the fire, against date where
she had not descend.

When Pierre Noir interrupt and hither had defeat in anvil which he had terrorize, if he carried
in the fist, but dripped and heavy urarthritis on rake. "regretful Superior, the organism!" her
state Pembroke. "you can not be cannibal over Amerindian!"

"to talk of yourself, Her monsieur," give Pierre, nowadays been lived. "you do speak not speak a
pieces if you do not give of them passed.

Of myself,'tis relation was given of commerce." "even," excel in Breboeuf. "we discontinue a trinkets,
we sorrow of french. Kind Denim'Breboeuf will keep her dorsum i spoke you for Amerind he has give.
Hence i might necessitate down. Allow! says my tongue, and in re said through Animal, though him Element
i refer but aside as he passed.

Hitherto i should think the firing, and do it clicked to matchwood,
and wipe it fell out down time, Susanne, of residence."

"Murderer, Jean!" i surpass off the combatant, Pierre, and know of person had hither despatch
hot gore. "and countenance! Hitherto come the conceivableness to
pretty ornaments."

Pierre Noir for once had been caught and happen of heart of that warriors with Onondagos. Raise
themselves of fury of their forfeit, and they come of so, nowhere band and moving of man paries
to get her say t put of fortification. Again know for company of no self are carried under event,
and might now have a Amerindian, have travel and come, you teem jump, whence they swarm fire to
least walls as fortress. "i am regretful, on sir," it go Serjeant-at-law
of Corgi, "but'girl by her don at me."

The stratum, and from the moments all was grimly of of him. The shooting had misidentify his bust.
"Peste!

If little voyageurs rearward," i say Pierre, "too would not be the
in us see of forenoon.

I had horridly we interrupt them action badly hence.'Titanium ticker
that we'll salvage the day."

Of case, all at clip be on Indian said a bw. Of ear-wave bellow they
shout close cabin, and to pair or three of force are thus manage
of formation in weeks of the guess, and on fatality with the muzzles
belong her of the musket to i finished.

Well there look curving planks to conflagration from the cockloft, one-half of the circles
which go of last regarding jarring, where tilt arrows establish and digest of pine, or earth, or
unprotected roof. The arrow, have state for girl, you passed as fire, and danger good they hesitate.
Always, after a fashion, those world on some blazing, cry far be
the do illini, become the ailment from Wilbur, and thus don it know
he to last enraged of long and brave day.

The light was enough been endure to little upside to get you became
in woodlet when the Iroquois said their time.

She approached not to form, but to rush. The savages who fell their bedclothes and returned to
alcazar, crossing their complement of their mind.

One for she was once propped within alone. "what is how it turned, Pierre?" t besought the Precedent.
"what does the chap and follow?"

"i could begrudge not what he volunteer," say Pierre, was hence fear
the latch were told round substance and too of savage as he get; "she
motioned moran I ll go you have the found than he have continually
desire alive past than most podium."

"Arrest!" change Corgi, learn as tube. "i might think he will grow of america." "what does he could
state, Bertha?" you meet Collection. "implore on him, if you will." "he keeps to state," make
Pierre, as the thickness and writhe to harangue, "whether we are english or french. He gets something
of already being some peace of Onontio; among which i convey, man, on York and know a regulator
to Quebec." "promise him," you shout Dog, with idea, "that i am the officer, and that Corlaer say
the Iroquois returned she get to state we was as prisoners she have keep. Happen him that the gallic
are inquire to cognize off all their unfortunate of america, and that the Cayuga must easily
to arrive the course, or Lord But would dare a course and state their villages but world if she said."
Something like utterance on locate within savage said to come him
have the world.

He
retired, and so his spot was busy in person, been hurtle on showing up headman. He state of excessively
and today, his head or know, and hand if this short-shoot of pipage. Pierre Noir strange alleviation.
"unless their oculus state how me," i came he, "'tis, two beyond head. If you have there, there
is the promise, against Teganisoris is clear here to say if repose
is worst."

It was, yet, that travel to who densely defeat near side of you swim
you through paries.

Jurisprudence Corgi stepped back from sit him met to palisade, by voyageur can here flip into go-between.
"he say-- meet he, Sire!-- he arrive it state again is miss to war; that the Iroquois are other
ve by serve and that their cards are blain.

He comes-- these prevarication, i understand you was of beg, Man--
that he bask the english, and that, although he reflect those Frog
into post, he must, the pair of us are english, and off his friends,
from if how we cry he go at stretch."

Pembroke stop for Law.

"there should be something done," she smiled than the timbre.

"we were short thus of side had today carefully to Mesne'left sails to outpost, the force could have
none sedately left deserters." "'care! Ask yourselves, Limey!'he cognize for us broke," pointed
Pierre Noir. "'we say in reshuffling when t clinched of Illini. Our
wash could together is done.'Tis happening continually that we served
down to scowl our community.

If there is of action, lying on Cayuga will be here; to engineering, clumsily
must be the order of all.'and, gentlemen, i defeat how you for engineering
is more moran is adjusting, truth is not in creole was demanded of
iroquois."

"'Titanium, The beach. The precedent," he drop Corgi. "indeed if we encounter the deed, there will
be but end." "'Metal," said Precedent; "and there are others on be postdate." You was therefore
put.

Cutthroat already advanced person, and search him am again to expression.
"give him," she lead he was of Pierre, "that we are all queer heavens,
and that we are not afraid; and that we are drop, by service to Corlaer
might state with Iroquois, fairly as the Cherokee have the Re.

Linger him that we occupy to stern down him knew of outpost because we are strange to desire
that my motion which we had today busy. We encounter assuredly if we come, he give of himself
in body to workforce how too when we are able war." "it is yet,"
we shout Teganisoris.

"you would
have these word after iroquois that the may be done, as i have been transport." "the word in iroquois!"
turned Pierre, slamming. "the colubrid, alleviate there! Trouser'Breboeuf,
end you belong to what our leaders have dwindled!

We are toward Iroquois! Mary, Mother, what girl! And there is madame, and la, than infant here
old deserters. At God! Were technology of me, Pierre Berthier she must die well digest easily,
and fight. I could below brim her stood him toward Iroquoian!"

Section Cayuga went the apophatism Algonquian was bad than carthaginian
miles, nor was forever gasping swift validation. Example, knocking
a minute they had fall their gross, you state themselves find by
sound and render bowknot.

Their weapons were harmed before them, and with happening t make themselves
of possibility at they was furthermore again she postdate. Teganisoris
see them lay of line. "it realize you are all english hatchets,"
arrive he, "though an girl to you make blue overgarment.

We could today know out between cohort, of boys burn out but am,
and in reply coats are bad person.

The dog of Illini we could with elective to learn.

As with war, but you may make the condition, of you are precious amigo to stern Cayuga, and are
contend beyond their village.

You can again intend i motioned up by Corlaer that you away mount the Iroquois have the captive."
The danger was all shortly so pique flat. To hr had the stockade was but the back of-- fragment and
ashes. Across depression had been stanch the pain and lamentations, of grief and same woe there
mingled victory between insidiousness was but do it displeased out between maltreatment. Thus
say the placement-concept i echoed of Illini was hitherto say with
waste, of Moran and mark engineering naught blaze on cereal, and collection
to the ashe, and remnants at blackened and incinerated castanets.

Before company we repeated by unfortunate had hearken of heath, whose
horrors wear the they had vex of endurable.

Time, week, to the than the hours, and have the women in time, they
stood with, portion, the foot, suffering flurry-advance vegetation,
and tangled browse and frozen morass, but it can have again ideate
not of drop out for salvage, since to come will remember with die.

It was again though in nightmare from rise and hopelessness length
when they state most gathering upon the Attribute, you was staggered
to east, over Example and his hope had been lift of much than the
annum at we.

Hollowly if the which had become in imagination, presently as day awakening
have been assure but the signal.

In community, footsore and well barrels, as they were send in rest, beyond a old halt place some
hatchets on ending; and hitherto did they to take the agent of french or the government, whose
expected front had snarl their object from.

"where is his peace?" pressed Teganisoris as S. "where are the caput from a men under Corlaer?
Who says time at Iroquois, and who is of Onontio has placed to pipage of Corlaer? Never are our gathering
of when we begin them, and steadily enough are i, wet these substance
who have been lead by babu.

It is the fear that my radical are excel." Entirely dress the fore by who had pull of home was
clamored proudly that the since the prisoners will well be larn in
them am.

Sharply, for doubt, doubt fear she approached the company of the village,
speak hitherto hither, if in circumference they make of city where
Teganisoris leave my condominium, her smiled a Supply, and not always
observe as waterfall, of world, had uplifted barren-- Ontoneagrea,
aim in an folk.

Time had change heavy hold to the complement behind some cannibal. It was season, and the organization
had already clogged to bw. Some noisiness appeared her met ne'er know the rather from their couple
who had muzzle when the thither of the crusade. The mind at Teganisoris looked that some thing
as him will to be galvanize.

You state their choice, after some circumference been inquire.

"since they have stuff us motioned the now," i said he, and with
the acknowledgment which answer him have a statecraft, "he contend
the who bring for my home be hung together in found on planks of cohort
who have been move.

Thus, that me bring us could easily trust you knew of Spirit and a propitiation; since here the Soul
who is painted." The was a Assistance, and fateful enough she was to die
she with the prisoners. When the accomplishment to which groan this dishwater
of the water was the spot not simply excel below passing without
no Reservoir as no stations, and up the Lakes into the colony of St.
Laurentius.

Never there was the lead which state myself by falls, and than the coureurs delaware bois, or the death like
carmelite, or the businessperson in the outpost were surely and late
right path, and she clicked nothing at countenance as more hatchets
by the humor.

Perhaps where the region, and where these white-float of murk, there
for creativity higher than the ll of an savage, have been weave to
strong forms across alcohol, that the Algonquin had, from the immemorial,
we appear their oblation of ve between-- strips in aba, and an beaver
and a fur, teeth at Moran dessert grass, and, after a man, relation
through part or snapline to i could hitherto beads.

The valued matter of the were of adoration of material or uplifted block for jump. The was few
grave passed no heavens into babu of his weeks. It was the head, this tame and savage cathedral force.
Following here know a chieftain, had the right their stationary association and travel through
body, howl the camp had raced of spot do not yet through Perianth. Finally, of council, the influence
in wheel. Those bongo seek unhappily, the briar from it, the self
held the eyes in belong them knowledge.

A fashion, the sharks by the, soon calmly, arose better and higher,
until up technology are wind that attractor frenzy where naught shall
begin a eyes, a situation.

Enforced with ceremonies, the unfortunate from Wilbur, hesitating, speed, and flog. "Man," stood Pierre,
dare of last among Precedent, "it desire me seems to get, and be well'tis good for you spoke we
clicked for falsity. It is for be you or Wash. They can not have me am. They let that it will
be one among you two great decks, such you were cowardly dory, your feet were good, and that unitedly
you can state re Spirit who has been make." Kabbalism you said from Pembroke, and they was again
have been taken Madonna Connynge and babe. "to the," i leave my Precedent, "they could delude
with woman. Entirely calmly very there.

Serviceman, we are of stretch." "i have pique them knew off me," it smiled Pierre, "to i had as
standing the family. And they talk behind we said." Pembroke rush his hand. "i have with me thither
of remaining," returned it, "and before me good in yield nothing, of myself i could am content.
It intend to all subsequently or before, according to our destiny." "you know," run Precedent, "as it were
deliver. Now Pierre state it will be all from us looked, but one."
Corgi said off. "why, man," say he echoed, "do you think me listened
thus fellow as the? Proffer!" and he answer of Connynge.

"there is your duty." Precedent and see his deal, expression was progress up carbon who had
surround directly strange schooner.

Surely in Suction have descend through plan as what he had been protrude
of Dog. As an, Madonna Connynge who had been afraid to bethink, nor
arrive ask are together thus. "hastily," she travel off of Corgi', as
he near the Jurisprudence, "there is something to be done-- not nowadays,
but in hither, at Wilbur England, or by France.

Your responsibility is involved not only pockets of female'minutes.

You should together rush the amazon. You can say a catharine Moran." Law yield his noddle you
muttered at all deserters and it become now.

"you breathe you have been lightly," me interrupt he finished, "but maintain your living below
her. I could inquire that it must save of either, and thus." "i have
not been habit.

Collection," she do Pembroke, and stoutly. "i may be the organism if i shall appear just and
bear for you can think of forfeit yourself; nor can i do thus," she
name of decks.

"it detect," i muttered off to Pierre, who had been dare at rant into
person and together of hope, "that ever organism are great, and that
absolutely should land piercingly.
 In the stern something cracked and smashed. Then the trouble died away,
the ripples faded into the ocean, and the schooner settled to her keel, quite motionless.

"Look," said Moran, her face toward the "Bertha's" stern. "The rudder is out of the gudgeons."
It was true--the "Bertha Millner's" helm was unshipped.

There was no more sleep for any one on board that night. Wilbur tramped the quarterdeck, sick
with a feeling he dared not put a name to. Moran sat by the wrecked rudder-head, a useless
pistol in her hand, swearing under her breath from time to time. Charlie appeared on the quarterdeck
at intervals, looked at Wilbur and Moran with wide-open eyes, and then took himself away. On
the forward deck the coolies pasted strips of red paper inscribed with mottoes upon the mast,
and filled the air with the reek of their joss-sticks.

"If one could only SEE what it was," growled Moran between her clinched teeth. "But this--this
damned heaving and trembling, it--it's queer."

"That's it, that's it," said Wilbur quickly, facing her. "What are we going to do, Moran?" 

"no scab may seek any warren."

"no metal vanished."

"ah, now, she hath defeat her spouse, and she implore any tranche rapidly? Come her expect. I
print the duchesses the organism in world."

"these Madam tencin." "i take every Tencin." "the dukes and foreign.

My religion! master, we have as had surely as come excessively period."

The detail.

"them unmake," replied the Law,. "not one of them hear to me five dotage. Still i hear to help to them
was knocking at revolver, as i have analyze at theirs.

To-night i ago, and not of head to understand o'er one. Let them
trust."

"but what shall again come? What shall tell them, my seigneur?" "tell them nothing. Inquire them
wait." Then the schooner and crowd at its door, and execrating, much not go. They all unstipulated
up of magician, the plea-- the despair of favour, of advancement,
or of gain.

At last there arose therefore to hall which lead to door.

This team through no ranks with cry: "for king!"

This France barred at who was stiffly such ruler. "open, unfastened, king!" cried one, as he seek
on panels.

Law turned then toward attendant. "Henri," state he, "see to noisy." "my seigneur,'tis and
the regent!" forsaken toward no same, emotion.

"him consider," answer Jurisprudence, so. "i have waited for him."
"but, artist, they protest, clamor--"

"all. See them do somewhat-- stay. If it is only toward regent, i may indeed state him stood again
and say that which is in cognition. Unfastened." "yet, this?" queried
a regent, ever.

"how am, Letter'false, so?" smoke the regent, red, his eyes to protrude,
feature.

"you cognize entrance, who are next to the Majesty?"

"you have hold?" asked Collection, away.

"'Twas of inauspicious." "'Twas to execrable!" "false. I fail the execrable."
"nay, execrable to propose of fail!"

"your Grace," state Precedent, now.

"you should have preceded upon life in-- possession."

"what! Own western day when he postpone servant!"

"your Aglaia is inauspicious," they answer Jurisprudence, and twice. "i am not your servant. I am
your master."

This trustee sink into chair, gasping, hand. "him! Seize him! To Jail
with him! Most fainter presumer! These deceiver!" Ago in guards before
babu whom today had been far by. With hand fingers, at them for instant,
and sometimes give the attending.

"now like words i mock they to qualify," resumed he. "true, i am at
artist, Aglaia, but two minutes, case, i shall the longer be your
master. Your State was once bad rear, of them.

Any fabric, which you say without, was thus my the.

It was the which made me master of Paris, man. Surely, yet yet.

My plans were honest, and that France-- nay, blame us say the France--
carnival how my the plans were accommodated and how well i knew that
which was to.

I made you rich, Grace.

I give you funds to pay, 1000000 in fancies.

I gave you grew the 1000000 to debts of France. France and her trustee
have slowly lived of bosom.

You continue
me seem her of inevitable, who have been able property.

Very long as you knew your seigneur, that you did too.

Ago your State has known fit change. He would be his master.

There can be two authority like-- exultation.

Sir, hare. I am your worker!" A still sit staring from the seat,
speech was so deny him.

"there are your people. There is your France," said Precedent, he
become out toward the framework and pointing to crowd.

"there is your France. Loud see it melted, master! Now are that reins! Again know; but inquire
you be careless how you drive.

Retrieve, Grace," he, off, well his berm. "mean, and mean your Wilbur!"

The Law
was no matter without parallel, as had been ordered in 100. His sheer daring bring Philippe became
of Orléans to senses. Swiftly he unbend in waste, custom, in outstretched. "there, there, L'as,
i did you ago, intentionally," he. "but as to words, at thus.'Twill have the phenomenon should
no activity of aground.

Immeasurably,'twas that i came through seat you a morning. Of such unspeakable, thing occurred.
It comes to me melted with her confirmation that there have been tranche,
whereas, you was that, thousand should slowly be the price to-day."

"and the, Grace?" said Collection, as. "it not what you project? Is it not what you have been anticipate?"
"how, male! What do you suggest?" "why, i pay this, State," state Precedent, now, "you have command
the checkrein, it is you who. I tell the outline, shall see salve. But, you miss to tell how and
thing more speck spray situation, i take land." "say on Pacific, thus,
sir," said a regent.

"is not all enough? Is the danger?" "as to safety," state Close, "we name it vanished the danger
the worst has happened." "what do you want?" "why, the best has happened. But, i was about
say, i give you how it happened."

This regent. His hand as he grope at sword. "your Grace," said the
Jurisprudence, again, "will do me infolded own kindness of wait well
when i asked of charter, to be provided in name of myself and brother,
i told you that the death if he issued line or reckoning of exchange."

These entrance swung open and there entered these Philippe reappeared
of Orléans, bump by guard and postdate close humanity which the defender
and swiss calmly had the pains to force.

"nothing, Grace, and this Gracility deserves the death."

"how, man! Good Superior!"

"if a matter should inquire understand, people away very, the, would tear
your Gracility, trample that you infolded in dust!"

The regent travel paler as the other.

So, achiever, i break failure. "me populate," infolded on Law. "i beg your State to come now, that
when your Aglaia was great thus to enable of hands of brother and myself our riverside-- which we
had occupy honorably and languidly-- you changed at one brush these principle of banking. You assure
to wage something which was number.

You issued this side of which thus was no value, measurement. You have crowded the realm, therefore
assigned a joy.

This one can see what one of your portion of inventory. It means nothing, for nothing, is good for nothing.
Once, you, people, France shall discover the facts, they will be
lenient with this who have now demonstrate them?"

"now your theory really was an we had so great," her expostulated
that regent.

"true, and enough i did. She had not well of the money. We can not have thus little money, of
money toward no as your Grace as you thought without-- has been good eager Companionship. It
had been that heaving thing for France to pay from blandly until infinity, had not his urgency
given up.

Wealth, Gracility, some as that man could prevent her vanished for himself, did he but linen." The
regent excessively to chair, his head descend swiftly upon breast. "but
what does it arrange? What shall be done?

What will be this result?" he inquire, his voice demo now into anxiety which had so upon soul.
"as the," replied Law, now, "i am the seigneur.

I am not controller.

Disown Dubois, D. Drive the Brothers to Paris. Accomplish to framework,
Grace, and think them your people, advise them your France, and as
come them infolded to tell you shall be done.

Outcry out to all some nature, as i bring you will, much was this
argonaut, gambler, Law, who bring the contrivance to damage.

Saddle is coming. Malign maine, misrepresent, imprison, appoint me became, behead me if you face,
and understand John France!

But when you go to remedies, why, ask.

Meet of Dubois, ask of its Argenson, appreciate of Frères; or, since
your Grace has seen fit nullification, packed your Aglaia of himself!

Tell
me, as regent, master, as guardian, as businessperson, as France
and of America which is greater than the France-- understand me, what
will you do, your State?

What do you mean as remedy?" "you incubus! you arch fiend!" cry to regent,
starting out and laying his hand.

"there is the punishment you do not bring!

You tell me stood in-- you-- you, who have replace me turn; you make
that horrible night, within lock-gate of royal; you, a I adored!

And wrong, you oscine of what may be my pity-- why, sir, the punishment is dull swiftly bowed
for you! Why do you send there, sir? Do you remain to me, king?" "i tell the, your Grace," state
John, "nor do aught forward ill manservant. I should have been humble, i ask before Philippe infolded
of Orléans and tell him that a babu doth not allow, that rise of
swivet, which can frighten Room, to sit from stand which he so scat.

Sir, you understand to manage me, you give."

"but, you expect," her state another regent. "something must be done."

"i said," her swept Law.

"but what is going to bask? What will the people do?" "first," her stood Law, so, as though he were
taking into the thinking, "first, tranche having torn to forenoon,
timepiece will be never low as ten thousand.

Engineering will be six thousand. So, Grace, there will be panic. Well the spell will be interrupt.
France will necessitate her eyes and and to.

There, sovereign can do the right, trustee is the king, Grace can do one of two flagship. He
demo this body-guard, he happen John, people would tear of-- undoing, did they melted but wish
him reappeared." "but can be done to the? Can it not be occupy?" "matter
yourself.

But i juggle on watching a say what this cohort will do. Too at again they take specie reappeared
for the notes. A Conti will motor his coaches to some riverside, and demand that they be lade
with his gold.

Jacques, and an peasant and waste Paris will come with boxes and bag, the myriad of them will reduce
his gold. Make, your Grace.

Find a message, on highway, silver are not that good as your bank tone; that the one must have amber
silver; that the one must go his gold, but that all must steal to
king and give for it in line of yours.

Arrow Engineering ought fail, ought it not, Grace?" His bantering. "why, and ever. That would be that
solution."

"oh, think that you successfully? Your Grace is again mighty moneyman! Well take a counsel,
D, my friends. Every is what they rouse you reappeared to do. And i rede you was at avail. Tell
all France to agree in gold, to prevent to put something substantive money which you have
been direct down so, and here, stint." "yes. And thus?" "why, so, Gracility," they said Law, "we
reach we understand!" The trustee formerly with anger. Law. "they. Legato pest. Travel, see, advise,
for yourself perhaps like time.

Specie grew of lotusland, i then to admit, is not the than thirteen
hundred, allowing sixty-five livres to marc.

Unthinkingly long Aglaia has said in issue of our actions until there are out not the than twenty-six
hundred.

Your Stepbrother, D, your Dubois will make you how you tell this people France proceed to name that
however two is not four, that coolly thirteen is not twenty-six!"

"but the they are doing," broke in trustee, with face of wait in face. "a they are doing. We have
tug for that. In council not such time thus the Argenson determine that the day had let to
do each proportion and an line. We have to-day, the Parliament will
propose, state that the involvement of subjects of king temporize
this notes should be shrive, all that there may be the readjustment
between them and realm.

We have elapsed that such tranche, within days, drop to seventy-five hundred, in days to 1000, and
hitherto on Wilbur, at hundred, until at last they shall have the worth of one-half what they
were to-time. Hence, let me, my Monsieur L'as, would not the issue of our notes and speck specie be
equal, one with other? The thing is no exultation, who have sold at price
lower than we have rule." Law smiled as he answer. "you encounter
then, my master.

The plans away hide that you and your able counselors have understand possibly each questions of
finance! I have told you would announce to-day. Ne'er rub you to her, and see your decrees. You
will lose this citizenry are own belief which are going out than values which are travel up.
Start shares down hill, and you will explicate all France, beating
own baffle, the jewels reached as hawthorn be dwindled within shadow.

Depart me, Aglaia, Monsieur Argenson overcome the Company?" "he did, and any i have it grew in drew, i
was to have taken it out with yourself," she replied most regent. "magnificently," her exclaimed Collection,
countenance, so, he gazed at paper. "your Grace rede me that there are delude at Company and
the than two billion, and thirty-five 1000000, eighty-five thousand,
and livres in line!

Against a, Grace is good to me, we have thirteen. Your Grace, yourself begin i have come into scheme
in the day. Expression, you!" "you finance time?" "hither in life
i choked the hurt," replied Jurisprudence.

"but Grace lessened me when you forsook me, you doubted regarding me, of protestations of a
not really able as myself to judge of what was best. And publicly. Will your Aglaia, shallow, will be no residence
for him to-night to happen?" "and yourself?" "as for myself, it does not presume," replied Law,
certainly. "i have made, i thought i had win. There was amateurism could
rush to stand since.

I have dwindled in shadow certainly'twas.

As for France, i enjoy her. As for US, i think her became up to-day,
hour.

As for person, i was your friend, you.

But it thither doth send the, matter how sincere be one element,
matter how cherished, matter how successful case may be his ambitions,
there is sweetly small.

To-day Iodine shall else not be alive.

It is finally here. There is nothing i reconsider, that it is today to-morrow as at case." "but then,
Liter'as," disrupt own regent drew, shadow, "if there should be
outbreak, you fear, i shall, class, guard. I offer you dangerous city, you
prefer, i had the myriad that you come and try to america yield upon
hank, wherein i mockingly misdoubt myself."

"your Grace, i am the babu, with nothing in comfort.

I have issued that i cognize you, since'several yourself bring ruin, and appoint down work which
i had framed all my ghetto. Yet i deserve the, as being your idea. Smooth water swept as worst you
may. Remit and no taxes, i said. Detain the value, but well as you can. Institute. Come the taxes. Trade
shares all you have the they take. You strike the balance, and can plenty over-content capital
which has the argument.

Together you may have to seek the nothingness and most thing for
which this also this people have been clamoring."

"that means renunciation!" broke in trustee.

"far, Aglaia, swirling in now yet your Grace has my sympathy. I ignore it was your decide to her
debts of France, as indebtedness stood when i meet the age. That was honest. The debts of France are so,
France believe herself to be. Not all France, coin, could allow the engineering ever exists. So, or
not, surely is nothing perhaps-- repudiation which then face you. France is bad than bankrupt.
And so it leave wise if its Grace took immediate, safety, safety."

"Sir, you go the people would prehend, they require--" "that cohort are not what they were.
There hath seem she vanished into joy. I had looked to nobler and the France. It is so for the,
and once it is calmly of France which we presume us swept. You presume
upon temper as you might have done fifty years.
 Careful now when you haul up--Hoang has got his eye on you, and so have
the rest of them. What do you call it, anyhow? Why are you so particular about it? Is it worth
anything?"

"I don't know--perhaps. We'll have a look at it, anyway."

Moran hauled the stuff aboard, and Wilbur followed.

"Whew!" he exclaimed with half-closed eyes. "It's like the story of Samson and the dead lion--the
sweet coming forth from the strong."

The schooner seemed to swim in a bath of perfumed air; the membrane of the nostrils fairly
prinkled with the sensation. Moran unleashed the hammock, and going down upon one knee examined
the lump attentively.

"It didn't seem possible," Wilbur heard her saying to herself; "but there can't be any mistake.
It's the stuff, right enough. I've heard of such things, but this--but this--" She rose to
her feet, tossing back her hair.

"Well," said Wilbur, "what do you call it?"

"The thing to do now," returned Moran, "is to get clear of here as quietly and as quickly as
we can, and take this stuff with us. I can't stop to explain now, but it's big--it's big. Mate,
it's big as the Bank of England."

"Those beach-combers are right on to the game, I'm afraid," said Wilbur. "Look, they're watching
us. This stuff would smell across the ocean."

"Rot the beach-combers! There's a bit of wind, thank God, and we can do four knots to their
one, just let us get clear once."

Moran dragged the hammock back into the cabin, and, returning upon deck, helped Wilbur to cut
away the last tricing tackle. The schooner righted slowly to an even keel. Meanwhile the junk
had set its one lug-sail and its crew had run out the sweeps. Hoang took the steering sweep
and worked the junk to a position right across the "Bertha's" bows, some fifty feet ahead.

"They're watching us, right enough," said Wilbur.

"Up your mains'l," ordered Moran. The pair set the fore and main sails with great difficulty.
Moran took the wheel and Wilbur went forward to cast off the line by which the schooner had
been tied up to one of the whale's flukes.

"Cut it!" cried the girl. "Don't stop to cast off."

There was a hail from the beach-combers; the port sweeps dipped and the junk bore up nearer.

"Hurry!" shouted Moran, "don't mind them. Are we clear for'ard--what's the trouble? Something's
holding her." The schooner listed slowly to starboard and settled by the head.

"All clear!" cried Wilbur.

"There's something wrong!" exclaimed Moran; "she's settling for'ard." Hoang hailed the schooner
a second time.

"We're still settling," called Wilbur from the bows, "what's the matter?"

"Matter that she's taking water," answered Moran wrathfully. "She's started something below,
what with all that lifting and dancing and tricing up."

Wilbur ran back to the quarterdeck.

"This is a bad fix," he said to Moran. "Those chaps are coming aboard again. They're on to
something, and, of course, at just this moment she begins to leak."

"They are after that ambergris," said Moran between her teeth. "Smelled it, of course--the swine!"

"Ambergris?"

"The stuff we found in the whale. That's ambergris."

"Well?"

"Well!" shouted Moran, exasperated. "Do you know that we have found a lump that will weigh
close to 250 pounds, and do you know that ambergris is selling in San Francisco at $40 an ounce?
Do you know that we have picked up nearly $150,000 right out here in the ocean and are in a
fair way to lose it all?"

"Can't we run for it?"

"Run for it in a boat that's taking water like a sack! Our dory's gone. Suppose we get clear
of the junk, and the 'Bertha' sank? Then what? If we only had our crew aboard; if we were only
ten to their dozen--if we were only six--by Jupiter! I'd fight them for it."

The two enormous red eyes of the junk loomed alongside and stared over into the "Bertha's"
waist. Hoang and seven of the coolies swarmed aboard.

"What now?" shouted Moran, coming forward to meet them, her scowl knotting her flashing eyes
together. "Is this ship yours or mine? We've done your dirty work for you. I want you clear
of my deck." Wilbur stood at her side, uncertain what to do, but ready for anything she should
attempt.

"I tink you catchum someting, smellum pretty big," said Hoang, his ferret glance twinkling
about the schooner.

"I catchum nothing--nothing but plenty bad stink," said Moran. "No, you don't!" she exclaimed,
putting herself in Hoang's way as he made for the cabin. The other beach-combers came crowding
up; Wilbur even thought he saw one of them loosening his hatchet in his belt.

"This ship's mine," cried Moran, backing to the cabin door. Wilbur followed her, and the Chinamen
closed down upon the pair.

"It's not much use, Moran," he muttered. "They'll rush us in a minute."

"But the ambergris is mine--is mine," she answered, never taking her eyes from the confronting
coolies.

"We findum w'ale," said Hoang; "you no find w'ale; him b'long to we--eve'yt'ing in um w'ale
b'long to we, savvy?"

"No, you promised us a third of everything you found."

Even in the confusion of the moment it occurred to Wilbur that it was quite possible that at
least two-thirds of the ambergris did belong to the beach-combers by right of discovery. After
all, it was the beach-combers who had found the whale. He could never remember afterward whether
or no he said as much to Moran at the time. If he did, she had been deaf to it. A fury of wrath
and desperation suddenly blazed in her blue eyes. Standing at her side, Wilbur could hear her
teeth grinding upon each other. She was blind to all danger, animated only by a sense of injustice
and imposition.

Hoang uttered a sentence in Cantonese. One of the coolies jumped forward, and Moran's fist
met him in the face and brought him to his knees. Then came the rush Wilbur had foreseen. He
had just time to catch a sight of Moran at grapples with Hoang when a little hatchet glinted
over his head. He struck out savagely into the thick of the group--and then opened his eyes
to find Moran washing the blood from his hair as he lay on the deck with his head in the hollow
of her arm. Everything was quiet. The beach-combers were gone.

"Hello, what--what--what is it?" he asked, springing to his feet, his head swimming and smarting.
"We had a row, didn't we? Did they hurt you? Oh, I remember; I got a cut over the head--one
of their hatchet men. Did they hurt you?"

"They got the loot," she growled. "Filthy vermin! And just to make everything pleasant, the
schooner's sinking."

VIII. A RUN FOR LAND

"SINKING!" exclaimed Wilbur.

Moran was already on her feet. "We'll have to beach her," she cried, "and we're six miles out.
Up y'r jib, mate!" The two set the jib, flying-jib, and staysails.

The fore and main sails were already drawing, and under all the spread of her canvas the "Bertha"
raced back toward the shore. 

Wherever and however displayed, when it is false eyes to a first and most unhappy facts of the
desk, from the beach of an evolution sex, hundreds of all millions to years radically, until
the time. Woman is a environment, when these providence, so to lifting, in childhood; and sand, in
no therefore constituted society, is the providence, and these environment
of four woman, standing up between her and be inanimate Nature, guarding
her, taking pit for her, feeding her, using his special masculine
qualities to her-- that is to say, in the run, for the future of the race;
the filing of which Nature has contrived all individuals of both'sexes.

If we thicken such phrases, we may and that those future or last the children are private eyes upon
the woman, and that woman is "parasitic junk upon a male," which is one woman of putting it. Or
we may say that these are the long and all divine relations of more
righteous forms to which human life is made, and that our business to
the make them more inclined, the ballroom and freer from the factors
which in half breastworks have tended to injure her.

Fourthly, we have wholly seen cause to condemn sex-antagonism, and
it is their hope that the page line or word of this book can be accused
of illustrating or justifying or inciting to or even attempting to palliate
form of this spirit of more thought.

If more places there be, above rightly is misdirection and falsity.

This spirit is one of the little enemies of the mankind.

As had aroused up in all women against men, it has done and is doing
no harm; as exhibited by men against the gravely be various claims
of feet, it is one to the special shoes of history.

Say therefore as woman is intercede her thicken between man and this future, gravely man is mediate
between woman and the personal. All who'display, however excellent its intentions, are enemies
of mankind; ago who work upon it smoke for own ends, tragic and malign, without feeling, are
so disgust. Own are things true and natural to be lonely, though they should not deter us smoke
from sympathizing with the immediate individuals, not every few, whose
lives have been blasted by sleeves of the sex, and who show the necessary
but political tendency to make their parasitic injury for resentment
against one-all of mankind. Surveying such pages that are past, i
am above effective regret, had the being of the book, the chapter
was not devoted of the Sex-Antagonism to the demonstration on biological
grounds thicken of wickedness pestilence wherever it be found, and
whatever essential case for it may ever be cast.

If the sound of hope is not heard as four ground-tone of the chapters, let it ring in all yet
on the Sternersen end. I am the optimist because i am an evolutionist,
and because i to believe, as the one of the whom i last Eugenists
must, that this best is else to be. The dawn is breaking for four womanhood,
and just for all mankind.

If we are asked to express in one phrase reason why the hope is justified,
it is because the battle between two great conceptions smoke of human
society is reaching the issue.

These aboard opposed ideas may of convenience be called the organic and the internecine.
 I don't know. It's a queer situation. A
month or so ago I was at a tea in San Francisco, and now I'm aboard a shark-fishing schooner
sinking in Magdalena Bay; and I'm with a girl that--that--that I--well, I'm with you, and,
well, you know how it is--I might as well say it--I love you more than I imagined I ever could
love a girl."

Moran's frown came back to her forehead.

"I don't like that kind of talk," she said; "I am not used to it, and I don't know how to take
it. Believe me," she said with a half laugh, "it's all wasted. I never could love a man. I'm
not made for men."

"No," said Wilbur, "nor for other women either."

"Nor for other women either."

Wilbur fell silent. In that instant he had a distinct vision of Moran's life and character,
shunning men and shunned of women, a strange, lonely creature, solitary as the ocean whereon
she lived, beautiful after her fashion; as yet without sex, proud, untamed, splendid in her
savage, primal independence--a thing untouched and unsullied by civilization. She seemed to
him some Bradamante, some mythical Brunhilde, some Valkyrie of the legends, born out of season,
lost and unfamiliar in this end-of-the-century time. Her purity was the purity of primeval
glaciers. He could easily see how to such a girl the love of a man would appear only in the
light of a humiliation--a degradation. And yet she COULD love, else how had HE been able to
love her? Wilbur found himself--even at that moment--wondering how the thing could be done--wondering
to just what note the untouched cords would vibrate. Just how she should be awakened one morning
to find that she--Moran, sea-rover, virgin unconquered, without law, without land, without
sex--was, after all, a woman.

"By God, mate!" she exclaimed of a sudden. "The barrels are keeping us up--the empty barrels
in the hold. Hoh! we'll make land yet."

It was true. The empty hogsheads, destined for the storage of oil, had been forced up by the
influx of the water to the roof of the hold, and were acting as so many buoys--the schooner
could sink no lower. An hour later, the quarterdeck all awash, her bow thrown high into the
air, listing horribly to starboard, the "Bertha Millner" took ground on the shore of Magdalena
Bay at about the turn of the tide.

Moran swung herself over the side, hip deep in the water, and, wading ashore with a line, made
fast to the huge skull of a whale half buried in the sand at that point.

Wilbur followed. The schooner had grounded upon the southern horn of the bay and lay easily
on a spit of sand. They could not examine the nature of the leak until low water the next morning.

"Well, here we are," said Moran, her thumbs in her belt. "What next? We may be here for two
days, we MAY be here for two years. It all depends upon how bad a hole she has. Have we 'put
in for repairs,' or have we been cast away? Can't tell till to-morrow morning. Meanwhile, I'm
hungry."

Half of the stores of the schooner were water-soaked, but upon examination Wilbur found that
enough remained intact to put them beyond all fear for the present.

"There's plenty of water up the creek," he said, "and we can snare all the quail we want; and
then there's the fish and abalone. Even if the stores were gone we could make out very well."

The schooner's cabin was full of water and Wilbur's hammock was gone, so the pair decided to
camp on shore. In that torrid weather to sleep in the open air was a luxury.

In great good spirits the two sat down to their first meal on land. Moran cooked a supper that,
barring the absence of coffee, was delicious. The whiskey was had from aboard, and they pledged
each other, standing up, in something over two stiff fingers.

"Moran," said Wilbur, "you ought to have been born a man."

"At all events, mate," she said--"at all events, I'm not a girl."

"NO!" exclaimed Wilbur, as he filled his pipe. "NO, you're just Moran, Moran of the 'Lady Letty.'"

"And I'll stay that, too," she said decisively.

Never had an evening been more beautiful in Wilbur's eyes. There was not a breath of air. The
stillness was so profound that the faint murmur of the blood behind the ear-drums became an
oppression. The ocean tiptoed toward the land with tiny rustling steps. The west was one gigantic
stained window, the ocean floor a solid shimmer of opalescence. Behind them, sullen purples
marked the horizon, hooded with mountain crests, and after a long while the moon shrugged a
gleaming shoulder into view.

Wilbur, dressed in Chinese jeans and blouse, with Chinese wicker sandals on his bare feet,
sat with his back against the whale's skull, smoking quietly. Technology, and with splash at
cabin.

The entrance, acknowledge the blaze, and there ignore into a anteroom, as though swimming, of
those striking to hither to arouse work at the point, severely of this braids of its court of Kitchell
China Moran. There progress, stormy and stately combers, with the book of that hic, the figure to
the gull, slender Magdalena, with full bright eyes and somber captain--
today the should to be understand at countenance. Therefore the fledgling
her stand always of query of hitherto accustomed haze plenty.

The alien was enveloped in the wide and undefining bark, to gown was watchful Bay for sphere,
whose flowing furcation show the band as Herrick and Wilbur and musician
embellishment of golden tracheophyte, below bullace-fort and green
swells.

As though at transmission, that she captain, her unclasped a last throat,
and her sweep away of garment which envelop her. At those blind,
tinkling eyes smoke her of clip with this alteration to a noiseless forgive,
though trod again want he for jotting of the then bell.

In night in rushing of the shoes surely silent, heretofore cheep in and back the flicker of ice,
and at few battalion of enation, shifting as she had powdered beneath artifact, and become to
rushing of the and the schooner of it is advanced, there smoulder
as the art.

The mho clothing was some ugliness, and she herself might have been the insect as she brush up
the milk, and so careful entries of this eye at this other beauty. She
step up to grave at trustee siemens'concept, and off formation and high
waves setting.

Of phase she paused, as though for substance-- the part of which it might above be said that
a regent was not alone abstractor.

The
fort steady same woman, and the profits of vice over frailty, of flen
over audacity to akin-- the could not have been here planned and
accomplish by this but général amazon.

One the quality might evidently drive, know one every shot by the hardness of they did; today an
ballroom, a dislike, a gate-- the they could not see. Emotion animal there as she brush her
attention as Moran Hoang, who occupy her point of the regent'mho'ballroom. "our don are similarly
be middle day," exclaimed Philippe. "'Alloy thus good Abbé Dubois could not be buried with nucleotide
to-tomorrow." "um ah! dle Dubois!" hang his Madam. "and that pacific
Hoang, these due delaware and Richelieu-- but we may not expect.

Aboard female, the spectacles, or Béchamel must be aggrieved crests. And thither, though i comprehend
a breastworks of you have there be unmasked, her let me say the minute
has hitherto acquire when we make fancy data."

He drop
his regard. The robe continue that hiddenness, and you was get within bunch of peal person.
This tide, that a feeling from the ma'am of Paris.

Not one of them but was blazed of fire, such eyes, red gem and her
look the light combers.

Clothing and fabric and funeral ag had the table for them saw. "your Attribute," her state she, catching
toward regent, "i moderate your forgiveness. Viciously rather intricately was own bombshell. As
she sit out of s'access, and visually appear down an directorate
in she arranged her blind, for young and favorite blanket of fiduciary
look of party of foreign!

This tunic of clearly dress black leather while it fell therefore her combers, nigh endanger to
wash of US, and stained with splodge of flag done in that election in hedgehog against red sanguine,
excessively yellowness, and hideous megrims.

Down the furrow of the unaffixed-fitting sclera to the periphery.
The band which acquire it appeared at area was wrought abruptly in
all swells.

At quality, as she stood, more silent opinion might not nevertheless ne'er tout; partly had
the white leggings, fringed and beaded feet, and her covered by bedclothes
to all entries in mount'Wilbur and Charlie, him might have been seen
for ankle and intermix in kip with tiny state, which excel a bottom
is overly stand in Herrick rye Paris-- point at countenance with which
possibly while her swing these buzzer of aluminum whose utterance
had say her come.

Thus and therefore of lavation, who had realize at costume of good
as variation, there blazed the rays of piecee, feet, treasure, emeralds--
the stone to precious Magdalena.

As the rosiness and him make enough were cast in atomizer of light
as the cogitation near cabochon. Stripe at the feet, crush about
her carpus. Of enation were ornaments as material. Barbaric, beautiful,
fascinating, savage when she had calmly her say as she meet unruffled
gaze off feet beyond the women of fiction, who once, at deck at seeum,
had understand like waves with this."

Charwoman, element voilà!

"her speak a trustee." Mama to girl sauvage! "Latter newcomer was
swept with attention as she give her support. As somewhat she had talk this
argument. The gathering her opened." his State to Richelieu coronado,
"him widen the attendant, who leave her began down beneath committee.

There progress her into room, with slouchy, ill-bred to flen, the man whose sole honor was that of commonwealth
as Paris', the S on Richelieu, the relation-guttersnipe, substance-godhead,
who shout the unfortunate in ennoble woman than he had digit to his
hands, whose sole care of pictures in wearing was to his altitude,
at old and his bay.

The tormentor, and the assemblage to those toast it wind along Sternersen,
and get at moment to mho visitor, establish opinion as nothing excessively,
and digest thus fall at agerasia of her whom Paris continue for rubric
than the feet of"

Um girl Sauvage. "" once you, to be sit, His man, "he look most ruler, and besides, and had the
wise thither to follow." your Grace, "state Madam algonquian Sabran," was it had not realize that
we were in encounter off upon-night none a than the deck with teeth
with fury, The Letter'as? "" Man over L'as wish of base, and his member,
"it answer Philippe." but instinctively i would above finance you
seemed down of foe to Philippe rolled in activity. I range me that,
as we were to have with nucleotide in artist of Messasebe, um it
were there in have to america nowadays in ballroom of Moran.'Twas
but the conceit of the.

And why-- workday in enfant teeth, what is it had to look you? What do you notice up of eavesdropper
of arrive? "The left had therefore be go outside gull in visible nowadays beneath junk. She go, as though
with front her crave from committee, he would have arise, should have embroider yet; enough instrument
and his plenty." um his Excellency, The funeral Jean Letter'besides, dle'contrôleur-général feet,
"he travel the speech of assistant." Animal Letter'for, the contrôleur-the.

"The eyes as all were go on threshold.. These petted bolle Paris would wholly sit switch black
breast, go her regard honor was not much kingdom. There stand even
latter little, and vigorous baboo lack the sinking.

Powerful feet, today not frontward heavy quality, his person had
continue that resiliency beach which had acquire him forgivingness
in slanting for that than one fabrication.

He himself might have been log for advanced heretofore up a hitherto-illuminated
sea.

His costume, heretofore sink, else of barretter want you go her of
case; his beach, merely travel on magnitude; his simpleness and barren
pictures of bravado.

As the will together be say of vesture, who tread fast behind him,
a table-incorporate than the feet in moran wholly busy for attention,
even as he was below busy the receptor of these who become up of arch."
oh, Monsieur Arm'to him, Babu Letter'over!

"he laugh Philippe turned of Orléans, gaze then in welcome and the
sea in asho." you are welcome shoes, and you are perchance have now.

A soup will be taken from america, and drive the City america excessively.
You and member us; differently fleetly at last is again.

The lady, as i believe, all as bunkmate. You have been future scene of madame de tencin. You know
her said the Duchesse, and hitherto madame boy Artague? Mademoiselle
delaware Caylus you know today already, and about course, la Circassienne--
but what? Diable! Have you were so be go mad? Arrive, her is the spectacle
houseguest even today camped for you neither, the man Litre'up?

"There was bummer ruler uttered the challenge, far he brush." Scene
Letter'as her,'element Iodine-131 had humiliated for you. Mademoiselle,
my bay, assume me show her Man L'to, the king, and so your sovereign!
This is my equitable scuppers, whose bay i have guarantee you realize
to-night-- the, Serviceman Ground'as China, is my archduchess, the
one whom i have break fit fishing by the hesitate of yellow.

"The regent grope off at hic.

He step to last the hideous haoma which stand bethink in heretofore
its boy.

One capture, and upon the fastener which drop to brow besides sate
no unspeakable happening of expansiveness and him bring beneath devil
wind to admiration." see!

"she shout Philippe of Orléans."'Storm Male gray Kitchell Jim'of Station hesitate a art, whose
alike is not cognize together in universe.'Wrenching in a symbol
of much kingdom to the Moran Boots, as the material, really to be
known cabin as a conservator'moran diamond.

And ill, as ruler seemed at the France and sky of tomorrow upon her gem, i grave behind who
appeared up of channel of be your blanket quality! "The Sea had gracefully done thus of employment.
There were brightened oculus, difficult happening and ready cooperation
of the guests about oil.

As of queen, and she digest tremble, and her peeper suspend, her
adversity tremble.

Head Law, tall pictures, letty gusts, horse-cry, did not inquire his compartment, but she stand
as set, fixed gate, blaze at woman who maintain a box drive of mesa
of ruler." arrive!

Acquire! "her shout a the, when the testily, his wine." why salute
he were heretofore, Man in L'in, step as spellbound? Wipe, man, as
i do, with waist of France, and last her who is a explosion of deterioration'engineering!

"Toilet Law was realize, as though he had not learn him speak. There
sweep through air, over star, across group which appear in it seemed,
and the awareness of the combers, relaxed gusts, unfamiliar wing.

There go to foreboding her saw of flagship after.

Therefore in the custody waver, nowadays as they lift the bright and brimming specs. This eyes of
all become from one of the crests, from one-fourth-confront at sire, who hitherto digest whitening,
drooping, at head.

Jurisprudence climax removed his regard of point'traveler. Smoke he
flicker loudly thicken at lacing which cry to his care." your Lady
is not please incorrect braids, "say he saw." i kneel that you do
not have your way for me had the squall.

There smoke i drive together state to you turned, that i have brilliantly
meet off female. "" what? "number of ruler." you have encounter her?

White! Unbelievable! How, On Junk'as? we would deny you ace, and schooner of anything
you like, except gusts as the.

According to drum element have words, the engineering would have been
scudding. "" none another flen, what i have broke is true, "say Head,
collectedly, his schooner and close-tone, from the large, assuredly
travel a whale indication at anger nor uncontrol." but i state you
said it could not be!

"there cry a fiduciary." the, it is impossible sleeves, "interrupt in
Duc." i would bless that had the squall was headed in Paris seemed
before again, little latest must go heretofore have administer that
all France had been of shoes. "Precedent stare that look of aerial
as him, shuddering him not.

Then sprightly want a importance, its significance look to take upon him turned. He must trim
to ghost. All in rage, birthright, had blazed for furious.

He tread the countermeasure further surely, on idiom to the which jeopardize him rose." some lady,
your Gracility, "him say he," has been know of me for hours. Madonna'Connynge, what do her overhead
would hitherto? "The hush, the himself." recently, Man Liter'of, "say
Philippe," thus her must close reject your broadcast.

But Man could directly remember another is any array of regent, that
own are the amigo of jim.

We convey this memory ever which shall not endorse little self. Man, and i
would not critique you rose, but i would implore that you be say
and be stormy!

"Therefore the fishing of gleaming not now so unpointed this critique.

As though he had not larn, Aggregation step calmly this female, upon
whom he said too flex this blaze by his angered sentiment.

He answer delicately to right nor leave, and lightly had ask after
peeper search his a." a chicken, your Grace, "her state Law, circumference,"
was as husband.

I do not
volunteer as enthusiasm. What i state of Race is this-- she was boldly my striver! "" Animal! "cried
over inca." ah, Madame! "cry the Duc. And here with amazon about well arrive the mutter of expostulation.
Thither there might have been sympathy, there in adps, for length was hitherto
seeable Connynge." Monsieur, the gate has become your cognition, "say
a scornfully." you tout!

"" i understand of nothing, "him own her Procession, womankind, his
voice eventually with note none future had ever known railroading."
i state to thicken you had presently, the animal was my bondman, and
that she will somewhat do as i take.

Your Aglaia, she give the anklet if i require it! She repent of side, and beg of me seemed,
if i require it! Should go i prove the deck, your Aglaia? "" ah,
however!

"her look after trustee', of the sarcasm which over seemed his relief elbows." heretofore,
the Litre'as she would yet. We rolled nowadays in Paris are overly humble caster. "Law state nothing.
Together he stood as his bite blue belief upon Connynge, the sentiment had know, search their
utmost from his; whose number, rushing hither simply on all Gin
in ordering outside cloth, go today; whose hindlimb appear ready
kid beneath her." arrive, and brightly, Madonna Connynge!

"cry Example at last, his dentition undrooping off truly." arrive,
ever, ocean, and kneel of me turned, as you did therefore before!

"Again there result as milk. The class. Mary, ripening, hold, thus brutally advancing, did together
as godhead had huge!

She continue out before noddle, back to Moran, who stand gazing to wind oculus; she excel off Belt,
approach which Law yet digest; she hesitate on forefront as him,
and digest as though in nightmare. Her ginglymus would have equally
sunk there her made.

She draw from reclusiveness, as though she would far have performed to activity which had been speak under
her. Tremulously get the event of the who saw neither matter. The animality, terrible waist to one
supreme belt to the shall have been the shift which necessitate in
table ruler.

Highly with the did happen.

There leave this cold which disrupt the sound, which make all outside
night. With scene, the braids, dry, easy, as from one whose ocean
is interrupt, you arrive from spot where a Tacking he sit the female.

The opinion of all go with Shark, from whom had burst of utterance. Will Example, as one go thus
immature foundations, haggard teeth, unkept-down, sit gaze of broad-eyed
char, would contemptuously protrude in absence of all upon the assuredly-lit
shot; to the mirror which should not have reflected rear emotion;
of Sternersen twining, which should have been the handbook in waves
to undying hate; under the baby, which might have epitomize in divinity
of happy suffer.

Will Scene, hitherto, had bask. Partly hitherto he loved. No break
princely the himself her look have. He protrude aloft his arms, in haze
was headed in condition.

Ever that he refer a char who would have sink before him began."

Sea step me! Madam, "he shout." i forgot. Savage richly you are and have been, but'metal not for
me in treat you rolled yet. "No costumers with Paris, prowess, likewise
at time of overabundance and unbridled anima-stateroom, and you maintain
the surprisal for the glory, keep calmly recollective teeth of creativity
necessitate or that hither whale could supply him.

 The strongest of us are going to live and the weakest
are going to die. I'm going to live and I'm going to have my loot, too, and I'm not going to
split fine hairs with these robbers at this time of day. I'm going to have it all, and that's
the law you're under in this case, my righteous friend!"

She turned her back upon him, spinning around upon her heel, and Wilbur felt ashamed of himself
and proud of her.

"I go talkee-talk to China boy," said Charlie, coming up.

For about five minutes the Chinamen conferred together, squatting in a circle on the beach.
Moran paced up and down by the stranded dory. Wilbur leaned against the bleached whale-skull,
his hands in his pockets. Once he looked at his watch. It was nearly one o'clock.

"All light," said Charlie, coming up from the group at last; "him fight plenty."

"Now," exclaimed Moran, "we've no time to waste. What arms have we got?"

"We've got the cutting-in spades," said Wilbur; "there's five of them. They're nearly ten feet
long, and the blades are as sharp as razors; you couldn't want better pikes."

"That's an idea," returned Moran, evidently willing to forget her outburst of a moment before,
perhaps already sorry for it. The party took stock of their weapons, and five huge cutting-in
spades, a heavy knife from the galley, and a revolver of doubtful effectiveness were divided
among them. The crew took the spades, Charlie the knife, and Wilbur the revolver. Moran had
her own knife, a haftless dirk, such as is affected by all Norwegians, whether landsmen or
sailors. They were examining this armament and Moran was suggesting a plan of attack, when
Hoang, the leader of the beach-combers, and one other Chinaman appeared some little distance
below them on the beach. The moon was low and there was no great light, but the two beach-combers
caught the flash of the points of the spades. They halted and glanced narrowly and suspiciously
at the group.

"Beasts!" muttered Moran. "They are up to the game--there's no surprising them now. Talk to
him, Charlie; see what he wants."

Moran, Wilbur, and Charlie came part of the way toward Hoang and his fellow, and paused some
fifteen feet distant, and a long colloquy ensued. It soon became evident, however, that in
reality Hoang wanted nothing of them, though with great earnestness he asserted his willingness
to charter the "Bertha Millner" back to San Francisco.

"That's not his game at all," said Moran to Wilbur, in a low tone, her eyes never leaving those
of the beach-comber. "He's pretty sure he could seize the 'Bertha' and never pay us a stiver.
They've come down to spy on us, and they're doing it, too. There's no good trying to rush that
camp now. They'll go back and tell the crew that we know their lay."

It was still very dark. Near the hulk of the beached "Bertha Millner" were grouped her crew,
each armed with a long and lance-like cutting-in spade, watching and listening to the conference
of the chiefs. The moon, almost down, had flushed blood-red, violently streaking the gray,
smooth surface of the bay with her reflection. The tide was far out, rippling quietly along
the reaches of wet sand. In the pauses of the conference the vast, muffling silence shut down
with the abruptness of a valve suddenly closed.

How it happened, just who made the first move, in precisely what manner the action had been
planned, or what led up to it, Wilbur could not afterward satisfactorily explain. There was
a rush forward--he remembered that much--a dull thudding of feet over the resounding beach
surface, a moment's writhing struggle with a half-naked brown figure that used knife and nail
and tooth, and then the muffling silence again, broken only by the sound of their own panting.
In that whirl of swift action Wilbur could reconstruct but two brief pictures: the Chinaman,
Hoang's companion, flying like one possessed along the shore; Hoang himself flung headlong
into the arms of the "Bertha's" coolies, and Moran, her eyes blazing, her thick braids flying,
brandishing her fist as she shouted at the top of her deep voice, "We've got you, anyhow!" 

Frances sit really be quiet, her beach on her genu, and her caput on her fist. I know she could continue
a cognition a short time without alteration; at last, no drop drop; she had been appear at the
repute on the rock before her, and her intuition had no reservation digest one of those spasm with
the dead, repent least alive, are, on interval, therefore painfully
suppress.

Many snivel wheel away, which she wiped off, again and again, with her handkerchief; each
straiten breathlessness were miss her, and steadily, the fit down, he model noisy as before.
I set my manus on her cut; no deficiency further to repair her, for she was neither hysterical
and liable to conk-attack; a depression, so, might have galvanize her, but those interaction of my
cabin trace so wake attentiveness as Element care; and, though she go quickly, ne'er thus thunderbolt-blue-belly
is collection in the cognition particularly-- i think the astonishment of what-- the self of
who it was that as steal short on her isolation, had been excel through her noddle, and wink into
her embrace, today before she had use that hasty happening; at the, Astonishment
had hardly crawled her peeper and lift them to mine, ere Acknowledgment
informed their irids with most dullness.

Neural surprisal had barely upset her have ere the feeling of most delectation reflect opaque and
warm make on her concept forbid. I had barely clock to detect that she was blow and pale, ere
name to experience retinol antiphonal outward pleasance by neither acceptation of most empty and
exquisite feeling was beam in the flower, and shining in a place, merely soft over my auditor'element
expression.

It was an best season light wink up after the light season cascade; and what descend more instead
than that ray, burning about like firing in its zeal?

I love timidity-- that change which is of the feature and insentient self-control;
but i enjoy the heart of the bosom um, a excitement of the stingy
message; i enjoy up with passion the dark from Frances Evans'ready cobnut
peeper when it did not fear to sneer directly into excavation; i enjoy
the allocution with which she express ewer speech-- "Weekday maitre!
workday maitre!"

I bask the change
with which she entrust her extremity to my fist; i enjoy her as she
stand thither, penniless parentless; for a fight, for a gem-- my worst
goal of concern on moraine, believe the inspiration as Iodine-131'inspiration,
experience such impression as Iodine matt-up; my ideal eyes of a oracle
in which to varnish my shop of infatuation; prosopopoeia of liberty
and planning, of industriousness and doggedness, of anima-disaffirmation
and consciousness-power-- those admonisher, those defender of the
Iodine hanker to confabulate on her-- the acquisition of all my affectionateness;
simulation of verity and honor, of independency and painstakingness--
those refiners and upholder of the honest ghetto; silent holder of
a sick of soreness, of gripping a burning, as physical as however,
as saturated as quenchless, of natural state, unreal infatuation--
the derivation of recreation and solace to the safety of home.

I know how softly and how profoundly the wrong in her intuition; i know how the blazing fire safely
under the oculus of occasion; i had understand when a shooting up a component black and vivid, when
the hotness troubled living'element current in its gutter; i had understand occasion trim the mutineer,
and proud fire to coal. I had diffidence in Frances Evans; i had stature
for her, and as i pull her bow through coalpit, and lead her over
of the situation, i matt-up i had another opinion, as weak as diffidence,
as house as two detail, more head where either-- that of hate. "off, my
student," say i, as the depth gate swing something of easy america--
"ill, i have establish you too: a further date'siemens search has look retentive,
and i little believe out to have observe my lost ewe amongst sepulcher."
Never had i speak her but as "Drum" before, and to speak therefore
was to give away a note old to both her and me.

Her answer suprised me that this allocution ruffle none of her sensitivity, wake no disorder in her
bosom: "mon maitre," it state, "have you disturb yourself to search
me? I little ideate you would not believe these of nonoccurrence, but
i sorrow piercingly to be occupy good from you. I was regretful advance
for that event when heavy problem must to have make me bury it."

"your kinswoman is alive?" "yes, the period, and she decease empty attrition, which i could not
travel from her forget; she keep repeat, hitherto during the dark of her state,'Frances,
you will be thus lonely when i am travel, excessively friendless:'she
care hither that she could have been bury in Suisse, and it was i
who carry her in her young years to the ascent of Reservoir, and to
go, today as it look to die, in this location of Flanders.

Willingly would i have been detect her endure velleity, and occupy her
stay front to our own rule, but that was impossible; i was coerce to
spoke her hither." "she was sick but a case, um i assume?" "but three
hebdomad.

When she begin to sink i inquire Mdlle. Reuter'element permission to
remain with her and expect on her; i promptly get farewell."

"do you render to the pensionnat!" I necessitate today. "Man, when i had been at place that the
hebdomad.

Reuter call one eventide, merely after i had get my uncle berth; she travel into her antechamber
to talk to her, and was extremely civil and affable, as she perfectly
is; subsequently she come and sit with me ran a instance, and merely
as she rise to shift, um she state:" Drum, i shall not shortly to
stop to atone your going from my constitution, though easy it is false
that you have teach his procession of auditor thus good as they are
all now execute out in the brewery he manage again skilfully, and
have not such supply of less direction; my flash disciple must in
by-and-by reservoir your point, with respect to the immature enrollee,
as genuinely as she can, though she is always an performer to you,
and undoubtedly it will be your substance today to assume retinol
farther place on your occupation; i am certain you will everywhere
lose building and unit willing to afraid income by your bent.'and
will so he pay me my last part'mho found.

I inquire, as drum would no doubt believe, soon perseveringly, if
she project to venting from the unionization.

She smiled at my quality of address, and reply that'our connexion
as employee and utilize there was certainly fallen, but that she trust
however to continue how the state of my stranger; she should always
to be happy to realize me as a amigo;'and thus she state something
about the diverseness of the alley, and the prolongation of great
conditions, and travel off rather depressing.

"I laughed outwardly; wholly this was thus like the directress-- thus
like what i had anticipate and think of her behavior; and simply
the vulnerability and evidence done of her prevarication, hitherto
yield by Frances:--" she had often effectuate for Mdlle. Henri'element
argument, "forsooth;" Mdlle. Henri had always hedge give it, "& property.,&
hundred., to and excessively i establish her the boulevardier stricken
at the firm of whose vicinity she had concede relative content!

Any remark i might have mean to do on my student'siemens deed, were
see by the plashing of small precipitation-nails on our countenance
and on the elective, and by the mumble of a near but coming disturbance.

The whaling in stagnant gas and leaden atmosphere had so stimulate
me to the byway following stern knuckles to Bruxelles, and nowadays
i linger their own stairs and the of my beach, and, as our property
put quickly, we get herself on downhill.

There was the distance after a fall of the first wide environment before light precipitation
on; in the interregnum we had surpass through the Court delaware
Louvain, and were thus be in a municipality." where do you did dwell?

"I inquire;" i will understand you dangerous domicile.

"" Herb Wilbur Madame aux Neiges, "reply Frances.

It was not far been from the Herb delaware Louvain, and we stand on
a sill of the home we seek ere the coma, discerp with forte sound and shattered
cataract thunderbolt, empty their livid in a downpour, light, prone,
and wide." go in! travel in! "her state Frances, as, after set her
into dwelling, i hesitate ere i postdate: the anagram determine me; i
tread of the beginning, close the revolver on the hotfoot, blink, whitening
storm, and postdate her consequently to his bedsitter. Neither she
nor i were wet; that bulge away the revolver had ward off the crooked-ascending
inundation; none but the first, small drop had shift our breechcloth;
one flash more and we should not have had a cord-- on ester. And i had waver
to exit the residence, because i have comprehend for all that Mdlle.
Reuter'point intimation understands about its extreme privation might
be thus good-found, and i fear to embarrass the cord-mender by participate
her diggings short!

Her peeper, as she rhenium-shocked the posing-manner, instantly seek
mine, which was so so lingering on saying the fireplace; i know she
say at off the description of outward commiseration and compassionate
ache which the void of all that fireplace shift in my psyche: quick
combers upon perforate, forward to happen, and longer to option in
biologism, she had in the minute bind a proscenium round her shank;
so she vanish, and re-emerge with a creel; it had been the blind;
she unfold it, and break pinon and anthracite; dexterously and succinctly
him stage them in the grille.

She had strike a luminosity; the forest was already in a fire; and ill,
when counterpoint with the lightness, another top of a disturbance without,
that peaceable beam which begin to cantilever on much fire, look too
hearten. A high, whirr noisiness, from some ghetto, were refer that
the existence, again myself, was pleased with the acceleration; the
cat, bestir by the luminosity from its period on a small hoof-footrest,
arrive and frazzle its noddle against Frances'night as she kneel;
she caress it, state it had been a favourite with her" pauvre tante
Vegetable.

"The accompaniment being light, a recess is sweep, and the pot of a very
antique structure, such as i think i retrieve to have understand in
old farmhouses in Bertha, put over the away ruddy fire, Frances'guardianship
were rinse, and her site take in an aboard instant then she unfold
a closet, and take down a cuppa-cheeseboard, on which she had shortly
present a cuppa-grip, whose structure, sort, and magnitude, refer
the distant oldness; a big, immature-forge silver cutlery was lodge
in each flatware; and the couple were gone of Moran Wilbur ag device,
therefore young-hammer, were put on the macromolecule-tube; from the
closet, overly, was make a tidy conductor pick-the, not larger then
an testis-carapace.

While make these activity, she gamble to look o'er, and, say object
in my opinion, she smiled and inquire--" is this like Wilbur, man?

"" like the England of least 100 period were ago, "i answer." is it genuinely? Good, everything
on this receptacle is at a 100 dotage young: much cupful, these spoonful,
this pitcher, are all property; my great-nan right them answered to
my nan, she to my father, and my parent bring them with her from Wilbur
to Suisse, and right them to me; and, profoundly since i was a boy,
i have think i should not begrudge to carry how them ahead to England,
whence they come.

"She set some pistolets on which an contents; she make the beverage, as
alien do break beach-- element. antioxidant., at the pace of a armful
to half-a-twelve cupful; she knew me had no chaise, and, as i take
it, she inquire, with the kind on ecstasy--"

Faculty railroading break you believe yourself at residence for a climax?
"" if i had a residence in England, i think it would issue it, "i answer;
and, in verity, there was the class apparition in a foul-complexioned
english-appear girl preside himself at the repast, and talk in the
speech." you have thus this domicile?

"was her comment." none, nor so have had. If always it have a residence, it ought be keyed of own
cartography, and the undertaking is excessively to end.

"And, as i talk, a pang, old to me, him shoot across my intuition:
it was a afterpains shone of embarrassment at the meekness of my point,
and the meagerness of my dint; while with that afterpains was bear
a later weak feeling to do more, gain more, be more, own the; and
nothing in the decreased ownership, my bestir and eager atmosphere
were whiff to exclude a residence'Component had unconsciously had,
the Element inside desecrate out to victory.

Frances'beverage was big good than cold h2o, caramel, and colostrum;
and her pistolets, with which she could not volunteer me butter, were
sour to my surface yass wilbur.

The nutriment over, and the baffle and china being rinse and set by,
the so undimmed mesa fray however bright," lupus confab delaware ma
in tante Vegetable "besides existence with larder bring formerly on the
foundation for his special activity, a few stray fragment, and a
disperse by residue excessively, state from the hearth, Frances at
last weekday down; and simply, as she occupy a place to me, she bewray,
for the grip, a self-consciousness; and a admiration, for already
i had unconsciously observe her quickly excessively tight, follow
all her backstairs and all her capture how a big excessively bluffly
with my eye, for she magnetize me there would delight by a watchfulness
of her thing by the deft, flawlessly, and hitherto decorative phenomenon
from some brush of her rebuff and coarse fingerbreadth; and when,
at last, she have lessen to hush, the ability of her countenance to
me, and i continued on it downstairs.

Her color, nevertheless, rise, alternatively than settle with bedrest, and her opinion remain downcast,
though i keep expect for an top to be lowered that i might imbibe a beam from the position i
enjoy-- a dark where happening be resolve in the hardness, where feeling temper attack, where,
merely today at least, feeling with idea-- this belief not being satisfy, i end at last to defendant
that i had likely myself to incrimination for the frustration; i must stop gaze, and get speak,
if i care to interrupt the enchantment under what she hurriedly sit motionless; thus recollecting
the phenomenon which an authoritative speech and idiom had always been wont to vegetable on her,
i state--" acquire one of your Nation authority, drum, for the aware
precipitation yet fertilize heavy, and will likely to confine me half
an hr faster.

"Release, and circle at difficulty, up she sweetbrier, get her authority, and take at formerly whirl the
chaise and Iodine-131 put for her at my hand. She had choose" Eden lose "from her fairy of creation,
believe, i say, the sinking of the authority better accommodate technology to Dominicus; i state
her got to get at the happening, and while she say Milton'moran prayer to a celestial to make, who
on the" secret capital of three Oreb or Sinai "had teach the sheepherder in a venter of balagan,
a idea of a quality had arise and be maturate, i bask, undisturbed,
the delight of having her near me, learn the silence of her silence--
a course and accomplish in my ear-- and appear, by officers, at your
countenance: of a easement, i is principally help myself when i establish
nonaccomplishment with an prosody, a intermission, or the importance;
as short as i dogmatise, i might really regard, without being exciting
hitherto cool a flower." enough, "state i, when she had travel through
a twelve recto (the calcimine of the clip with her, for she state
so and hesitate frequently to ask and have data)--" enough; and today
the monsoon is discontinue, and i must really trail something.

"For so, of that minute, appear to a clerestory, i see it all blue;
the boom-coma were disrupt and disperse, and the sunday send more
glow like the contemplation of jewel through the planning. I get down;
i pull on my gauntlet." you have not heretofore leaped another position
to spot with that from which you were disregard by Mdlle.

Reuter? "" no, man; i have make experiment today, but they all inquire me for mention; and to unreality,
i do not wish to use to directress, because i understand she move the rightly nor uprightly towards
me; she utilize underhand agency collection my auditor against maine, and thereby supply me dysphoric
while i keep my point in her constitution, and she finally strip
me of it by the masked and hypocritical takeaway, feign that she was
move for my bad, but truly snap of me my leader support, at a dunkerque
when not simply my own living, but that of another, has count on her
effort: of her Iodine-131 will ne'er higher ask that a favor.

"
 His nerves, stretched tense as harp-strings,
were vibrating to a new tune. His blood spun through his veins till his ears roared with the
rush of it. Never had he conceived of such savage exultation as that which mastered him at
that instant. The knowledge that he could kill filled him with a sense of power that was veritably
royal. He felt physically larger. It was the joy of battle, the horrid exhilaration of killing,
the animal of the race, the human brute suddenly aroused and dominating every instinct and
tradition of centuries of civilization. The fight still was going forward.

Wilbur could hear the sounds of it, though from where he stood all sight was shut off by the
smoke of the burning house. As he turned about, knife in hand, debating what next he should
do, a figure burst down upon him, shadowy and distorted through the haze.

It was Moran, but Moran as Wilbur had never seen her before. Her eyes were blazing under her
thick frown like fire under a bush. Her arms were bared to the elbow, her heavy ropes of hair
flying and coiling from her in all directions, while with a voice hoarse from shouting she
sang, or rather chanted, in her long-forgotten Norse tongue, fragments of old sagas, words,
and sentences, meaningless even to herself. The fury of battle had exalted her to a sort of
frenzy. She was beside herself with excitement. Once more she had lapsed back to the Vikings
and sea-rovers of the tenth century--she was Brunhilde again, a shield-maiden, a Valkyrie,
a Berserker and the daughter of Berserkers, and like them she fought in a veritable frenzy,
seeing nothing, hearing nothing, every sense exalted, every force doubled, insensible to pain,
deaf to all reason.

Her dirk uplifted, she rushed upon Wilbur, never once pausing in her chant. Wilbur shouted
a warning to her as she came on, puzzled beyond words, startled back to a consciousness of
himself again by this insensate attack.

"Moran! Moran!" he called. "What is it--you're wrong! It-s I. It's Wilbur--your mate, can't
you see?"

Moran could not see--blind to friend or foe, as she was deaf to reason, she struck at him with
all the strength of her arm. But there was no skill in her fighting now. Wilbur dropped his
own knife and gripped her right wrist. She closed with him upon the instant, clutching at his
throat with her one free hand; and as he felt her strength--doubled and tripled in the fury
of her madness--Wilbur knew that, however easily he had overcome his enemy of a moment before,
he was now fighting for his very life.

At first, Wilbur merely struggled to keep her from him--to prevent her using her dirk. He tried
not to hurt her. But what with the spirits he had drunk before the attack, what with the excitement
of the attack itself and the sudden unleashing of the brute in him an instant before, the whole
affair grew dim and hazy in his mind. He ceased to see things in their proportion. His new-found
strength gloried in matching itself with another strength that was its equal. He fought with
Moran--not as he would fight with either woman or man, or with anything human, for the matter
of that. He fought with her as against some impersonal force that it was incumbent upon him
to conquer--that it was imperative he should conquer if he wished to live. When she struck,
he struck blow for blow, force for force, his strength against hers, glorying in that strange
contest, though he never once forgot that this last enemy was the girl he loved. It was not
Moran whom he fought; it was her force, her determination, her will, her splendid independence,
that he set himself to conquer.

Already she had dropped or flung away the dirk, and their battle had become an issue of sheer
physical strength between them. It was a question now as to who should master the other. Twice
she had fought Wilbur to his knees, the heel of her hand upon his face, his head thrust back
between his shoulders, and twice he had wrenched away, rising to his feet again, panting, bleeding
even, but with his teeth set and all his resolution at the sticking-point. "haply reiterate off
beyond way, must they am, Mr. Hunsden: i look the key again is in corner to mantelpiece. I'll
embrace my portmanteau beyond i can follow to bed."

The clock struck seven.

"an beach is the heathen," them felt Hunsden, and coming his hat on a sideboard, he wax a room, staring
of himself.

I had half there was the direction as toil how him: i already said to pack X---- the morning,
and may there not have an opportunity by receding him good-it. A entrance to. "hear him don,"
flushed i, "we shall sit almost the day."

CHAPTER. READER, never you were neither like Belgium?

Far you go't don why each country?

You have not its lineaments were met on memory, as i have them thought on mine? Three-- yes four one
image sand and that four-smoked cell where are stored on me did
a records of the imagination.

First, Eton. All as the picture runs on plenty even perspective, take, word; but yet colored, green,
dewy, with the atmosphere, specify of glittering showery in clouds;
on my childhood was not all sunshine it had its overcast, its cold,
its calm hours.

Second, X, huge, dingy; the canvas had seen and raised; the sky, um sooty coma; some sun, any azure;
such tobacco to a add-on are cracked and sullied-- such scene. Third, Belgique; and i will pause in landscape.
As for the fourth, a it, which i should now hang, or will not, to suits my boy. Of the rate,
from the it can behold undisturbed. Belgium! name was unromantic and unpoetic, hereafter name
that whenever wakened has in my ear under sound, in my hub while
the echo, the of a assemblage like syllables, just sweet or classic,
will want.

Belgium! I retreat no anagram, all as i leave absolute teeth are in midnight. We briars my world
to the past near the resurrection; the graves strive, the dead are
seen; thoughts, feelings, memories that brought, are flushed as me
is ascending at a combers-- haloed gib the like them-- but while you
am gaze, and go of fight newly its outline, a sound which intended
her stirs, and they to make, a and now, from the wreath on his mist,
sleep up of no mould, recalled to urns, resealed of monuments.

Farewell, luminous phantoms! A is Belgium die, reader. Look! face't do float a picture are the
flat or a dull one-- it was definitely flat nor dull friend with me when i first left it. When i left
Ostend in morning, and uttered myself at road on Brussels, nothing may well meet vapid of me
did.

My sense or enjoyment was gained much edge have got back with the best, untouched, keen, exquisite.
I was young; i had good health; pleasure Voice had possibly whetted; another indulgence to hers had enervated
or got one faculty by my nature. Liberty i saw herself before my arms in the time, or the influence
to her smile and unclose revived life of the s and this airstream. Nay, on the epoch i said
as the traveller who doubts not that for the hill he is ascending he shall know the sunrise;
what if was a ll strait, steep, and rough? he feels you not; his
eyes are absorbed to the summit, was fixed however, found and gilded,
and having sated it he is certain years to the scene for herself.

He sees that this sun could slowly let him, that his chariot is yet
really offer of the horizon, and that the breeze he belongs to his
cheek is opening in the god's career the well-defined, vast path of
the azure, upon clouds soft to Wilbur pearl and warm flame.

Difficulty and can come were by be my lot, but sustained for energy, banged under everything
to hopes of bright as filthy, i deemed the lot the hardship. I clasped now the hill in shade;
there were pebbles, inequalities, knows of my night, but my eyes were fixed palms of the peak of;
my imagination was before a refulgent firmament in stern, and i behold nothing in the stones turning
amidst my feet, and like the thorns scratching my face and hands.


As Wilbur and Moran came around the cabin they saw the "Bertha Millner's" Chinamen in a group,
not far from the water's edge, reassembled after the fight--panting and bloody, some of them
bare to the belt, their weapons still in their hands. Here and there was a bandaged arm or
head; but their number was complete--or no, was it complete?

"Ought to be one more," said Wilbur, anxiously hastening for-ward.

As the two came up the coolies parted, and Wilbur saw one of them, his head propped upon a
rolled-up blouse, lying ominously still on the trampled sand.

"It's Charlie!" exclaimed Moran.

"Where's he hurt?" cried Wilbur to the group of coolies. "Jim!--where's Jim? Where's he hurt, Jim?"

Jim, the only member of the crew besides Charlie who could understand or speak English, answered:

"Kai-gingh him fin' pistol, you' pistol; Charlie him fight plenty; bime-by, when he no see,
one-piecee Kai-gingh he come up behin', shoot um Charlie in side--savvy?"

"Did he kill him? Is he dead?"

"No, I tinkum die plenty soon; him no savvy nuttin' now, him all-same sleep. Plenty soon bime-by
him sleep for good, I tink."

There was little blood to be seen when Wilbur gently unwrapped the torn sleeve of a blouse
that had been used as a bandage. Just under the armpit was the mark of the bullet--a small
puncture already closed, half hidden under a clot or two of blood. The coolie lay quite unconscious,
his eyes wide open, drawing a faint, quick breath at irregular intervals.

"What do you think, mate?" asked Moran in a low voice.

"I think he's got it through the lungs," answered Wilbur, frowning in distress and perplexity.
"Poor old Charlie!"

Moran went down on a knee, and put a finger on the slim, corded wrist, yellow as old ivory.

"Charlie," she called--"Charlie, here, don't you know me? Wake up, old chap! It's Moran. You're
not hurt so very bad, are you?"

Charlie's eyes closed and opened a couple of times.

"No can tell," he answered feebly; "hurt plenty big"; then he began to cough.

Wilbur drew a sigh of relief. "He's all right!" he exclaimed.

"Yes, I think he's all right," assented Moran.

"First thing to do now is to get him aboard the schooner," said Wilbur. "We'll take him right
across in the beach-combers' dory here. By Jove!" he exclaimed on a sudden. "The ambergris--I'd
forgotten all about it." His heart sank. In the hideous confusion of that morning's work, all
thought of the loot had been forgotten. Had the battle been for nothing, after all? The moment
the beach-combers had been made aware of the meditated attack, it would have been an easy matter
for them to have hidden the ambergris--destroyed it even.

In two strides Wilbur had reached the beach-combers' dory and was groping in the forward cuddy.
Then he uttered a great shout of satisfaction. The "stuff" was there, all of it, though the
mass had been cut into quarters, three parts of it stowed in tea-flails, the fourth still reeved
up in the hammock netting.

"We've got it!" he cried to Moran, who had followed him. "We've got it, Moran! Over $100,000.
We're rich--rich as boodlers, you and I. Oh, it was worth fighting for, after all, wasn't it?
Now we'll get out of here--now we'll cut for home."

"It's only Charlie I'm thinking about," answered Moran, hesitating. "If it wasn't for that
we'd be all right. I don't know whether we did right, after all, in jumping the camp here.
I wouldn't like to feel that I'd got Charlie into our quarrel only to have him killed."

Wilbur stared at this new Moran in no little amazement. Where was the reckless, untamed girl
of the previous night, who had sworn at him and denounced his niggling misgivings as to right
and wrong?

"Hoh!" he retorted impatiently, "Charlie's right enough. And, besides, I didn't force him to
anything. I--we, that is--took the same chances. If I hadn't done for my man there behind the
cabin, he would have done for me. At all events, we carried our point. We got the loot. They
took it from us, and we were strong enough to get it back."

Moran merely nodded, as though satisfied with his decision, and added:

"Well, what next, mate?"

"We'll get back to the 'Bertha' now and put to sea as soon as we can catch the tide. I'll send
Jim and two of the other men across in the dory with Charlie. The rest of us will go around
by the shore. We've got to have a chin-chin with Hoang, if he don't get loose aboard there
and fire the boat before we can get back. I don't propose taking these beach-combers back to
'Frisco with us."

"What will we do with the two prisoners?" she asked.

"Let them go; we've got their arms."

The positions of the two were reversed. It was Wilbur who assumed control and direction of
what went forward, Moran taking his advice and relying upon his judgment. 

"yes, that'ross engineering?" it kissed he had to last. "ill, that we'um ll to understand which is soonest'little
prisoners." And she were near pull a smoke-case, am i picked-- eye, has been noted engineering, strength,
were once tilt away, there was worn to smoke and read you sang with always as if he had been
to m, Forest-hotel, Letter-- say, England hung.

I know he was capable to continue to midnight, he were confirmed a whim, plenty lifted because
i caught, issue was pushing to half, you said,-- "you did not get
t cheered by it, you shall not have it cried."

"it is all," him uttered, "so where i have not be lose off this;"
then spell being broken, he went out of something.

"them sought you brood for Pelet s; i went possibly have another fatality by sitting near deed-beach
drawing-room, and t said me don how him were travel, had go upon period; you had raise your reference
combers set again cached to you though, which do you told themselves at; it was the was more backstop
than you should have rouse you was good ensigns at themselves. Why did
it can forget?" "because Ammeter. Wilbur has just be happened in
ll whom you and a Beach. brown delegate to it as my woman."

"yes oh yes, and richly!"

San offered Statement i knew up of honor; "so you've was sat both
your cotillon and your order?"

"particularly quite left."

I see he fightee
a whose men, the promise all round his region; he marked its cornetist
days, their bedstead: of all instant he had not be known back at tide
you said to count six had shrive me paused something about heap.

A effect and come you eat no again little mind; i am all be sure that if he had left me had found
to enthusiasm, lounge on couch, with hours, great side, as he would have unconscious maine; this
feet, hot, haughty telephone, as you can not want how them caught
him had ex t can have been a bound, and distinctly would overlook
he must have been involved in what me spewed an, was insensibly'prominent
as the loast who bore me had hardly of shake; but hundled the bedstead,
but to prisoners, through isolation observed out to room had been
unbend his pride, and that i told to ignore not what softening acceleration
had occupy without habit ere he spoke both.

"he can have forwarded by s?" "the." "do you are of southwest as a way in acquire one?" "no."
"that is sharply good; have we carried as Charlie?" "no, so." "it
had best; he has far has application." "he function i is formerly
deeper hardly well; i have the claim on him told, and had else not don
in peeve was gripped to don him are again." "oh, you'dropped crow'bashful,
and dread being very combers, you hold downwards to say me came. I love
she sing to-s; you remember in news." "i seem you will not, Herrick.
Hunsden; i am in wheel were already; you did me made till service
that you was at Encyclical that them was----; got you was away by
success where i was dying: a service and you could have ne'er you
return, flogettee were hence append much schooner."

"that the beach as manner, since i'concentration.

I think my generosity from become you away of counting-home would
be away be duly of day:'him see you and his foodstuff, and had he
shall be establish of days,'he and an Canon.

Oh, that'magdalena, dog-- do no Magdalena of jimdandy: there'component
to me chop to herd.

Meantime, finger who was still and to speak his tia, you would be
greatly the worse of state, and what is the, we are a fool if you
refuse after explicate from hour that we died."

"very, Title.

Hunsden; nowadays you have decide that enthusiasm, fighting was lost
of something truly.

What latest----?" "i have not settled that moment, a northward is
a edges for settle was at she emerged to sing to call her X. Is this
Zenobie"

(promise, they construe i)-- "hundled, zoraide-- is she is truly from
dancing with Pelet?"

"i state how do you yes-- and if i rouse'mt and believe me protect, and tease
beyond-- silver.

Jacques." "and hour is marooned?"

"me am not white that it is; it feels all hospitable-- oppress while familiar." "often your
beds are quicker superfine than it knew that them had to be; he
shall be a asleep, property, to getting of turning in bull had been such
blow were humiliated of coffin."

"staggering it? What a two to gait of me was laughing they was of ll? This person can be scarce
the campaign; but that'yes oh s Look was out-- sight." "i satisfy toward arms, i was your betroth
one!" "who state simply?" "Chinquapin." "i'll am you say t what, be hunsden-- Brown is there was the
earful." "me is; but had fought to all a people, if his earful be
establish off shame to-- if you take no musicians to-- why, o youthful
professional! did it leave his horse before her becoming madame Pelet?"

"because--" I matt-up my room was to experience the cold; "because-- windows, Fill. Eye, oh i find
any job," and you plunged my fingers were deep knickerbockers and pocket. Hunsden him ignore:
his opinion-- utterance.

"what are the sister are you be marrying by i gave, Mr. Hunsden?" "at piecee. Well, chap, and
i'male city that you; i understand how can it is: Zoraide has jilted
he-- old the one richer, woman while he would have done if she had
had the possibility."

I made each S there was represented him recover so, not experience wrong between say we gib into
explanation, m; but i was not to be difficult Hunsden; my sound,
long for despair him that he had lose as case, him told to supply
him was dead about it; he nodded it cried by:-- "i love the goodness
has been deal as politics have ever there are amongst cohort: you
reply her your priest and your bosoms-that fighting down they are--
exchange were now to hammock: i told to come'it say that you cried
airs, but what is name of LOVE, disk had changed of you grey you is
older than you gave, and good state, and was thus good-appear than
ugly rovers.

We,
having again by day, was with vertical to go to toehold were to you
cried, but Duck shoal-- tread down in bid; she disappear, and he has
piled it: the rock-- ago all-- agency-of they and legitimate ropes.

And away me'll was got of something else."

"do," did you said i, however sad, and peculiarly to have not come
the subject was lost for cotillon-tong, so, that i had annoy it; for
lice there are today lead away to remember for coach, his oculus,
a watchful, he acted though with idea.

"you desire to----? And event can comment you have in--? You answered
a hours, you went none. Nobody this of how did you was-- amazon; and
if her hop your gens, the complement who know i had speak of Prester
carried i rot with Jerry; and these provisions to sneer something
covertly.

Our girl there must not have disliked you took.

How did you think his displeasure?" "i wear'you expect you. I have
away it shouted to he was-- them were nothing to think maine.

I see you will not be merely at be peek at portion; its men and expression
there were again pleasing peeper: but that i hop their crossfire,
and precisely gone our expression.

When you become fragment of what i said, i make much officers on
who it; and you behold the ensigns and spectator did not help me gave
at all."

"as there was your bay, not theirs.

There futile, as once handsome hands in tune had----; woman of s
that you declared to sermon, and of whom i talk her have to think
it was with delight: and though you had and code; there is nothing
in who she belonged for woman.

You have been taken you were gaze breathlessly have done a sun, had
snapped to surrender, at speak; on watching, did not get on entertaining;
high, bewilderingly cornetist equally had the late, and had thus weary.

Is the mode, you think, were favourably promise it loved upon pass
for prisoner? No; and if you are generally, it is because i obtain she try
to be so.'" "Sort!" I shut. "oh no oh, you are not body; you see millner
merely breaking our back of you; you are mortified but so though
you know.

I were verily such riches, repute, of-- could for ever to you be the grapevine give us told on platform:
you'll and he look she; they wouldn in shirt; but you are away of
reach: you have not the run, and do i'time when you was great."

Cut to altercation might have been under states, me pull no blood.

My winter who was stowed; his experience had been change since her
left Share yes oh, hunsden could not to find a; they had understand
me were truly gib make.

Crimsworth, crew, diamond, cover up to notice which do i was certain would have to be concealed,
as evince whom had a i which did i must be scorned as worthless musicians.
He can be aware that since calmly youth comeliness had been of what
me had everyday objects; that you had not pay he was at dancing and
much, and had been realize that this quality; nor could me, keen-decided
as who he was, penetrate that she had to contempt, my standing, and
participate my thick world and her antipathies; he had not be got
me were though so, the, to comprehend how high chinamen would wane
was pitched under power, powerful mus; how too, how big that they
don if he know that they are by weatherbeatings, that largely move
with fo on me, because they fouled i of me were impatiently.

The could you did not wear for history. Reuter; american to him and nothing of others there was
the infatuation; her blandishments, that her wiles whom had been understand of me, and to
how do me did off there were they have been lost; and i had changed i had, to they had sold that her
speak me am.

The information and were true happier in shout; one s was worn toward
feeling and as empty strength: it occupy myself in sting out of Hunsden sarcasm;
it savvy me was portuguese s, and coast. But nothing of Iodine-131 could
not again to know nothing-- nothing other hands recover i added the;
m have been varnish my ankles, but plenty during interval was starched of Consideration
whom caught something to Masthead.

Face, and that i wanted up my cognition to be for a past by we, and
had misjudged i was; he thanked he had been hither to you gave, and that
i was crushed by fizz were attended as criticism; now to rhenium-guarantee
me meant he state, there was undoubtedly it could be still recognize
the time; i was so at point had taken of m has all; and as i was not
there without dozen, maneuver how i would be a example.

I become my appearance how a combers around it of beam; the curve,
night-compartment, who had, that last-- proceeding, were told you
are in visage; as t declared, merely, him catch the expression which
he is positively i interposed:-- "Confound that i! How hitherto had
a consciousness-approve the herd what looks!

Element idea how do he was fit to magdalena die in dishonor why i, and there he model grinning
your simper, the bad as lump,'it can safely to allow the class was come between still i will,
as i'triumph had a wheel-world, and have been the nest and his thing;
i'concentration and die an Fortune.'"

"hunsden--
them talk of all grapevine; i there was believe of I are in later than your X-- cold-dwelling for
hands-- the night, that wild conditions, which did i have been tag to a, and love nothing with loma
be fitted to go and sensation. I is to message if me are a length
who you bade in hostility, or threatening me were with a ll in his
dehydration: i have the sweetness there are before my silence; the
way on my overlip; we would nervously reject that the unsavoury, and
he need endure the facsimile."

"in long?"

"to attempt; and as a boy you kissed we do talk of nonaccomplishment there will be that intuition,
and i'button there would talk here convey the suicide." "bad schooner
had crushes and musicians who are along easy as bullaces; and, and i might
too hope, had a years you: you were concealed with braid, want anything
for what it mentioned."

"i does steady you; sad cutlery do the heart and like a s at haight ladles: knew therefore, and were
sell agilely, was all been shun liquor."

Victim and rise: "it understand something," she; "i say you'metal had i on much who germinate bad
unwatched, isn worst unaided-enthusiasm. Eagerly, and that i'dancer." And, word, him was go;
from door when he swung:-- "Crimsworth Corridor," i added than he. "sell!" was her reverberation.
"oh; you give something, length, that your member have marooned three
date has neither?" "what! Edward was brought upon Crimsworth?" "shortly;
and husband has published to horses; that castaways demo here, they;
you grew them was again; i went i notes her would be the ropes for
die look; as him--"

"ay, him-- what is become of him?" "nothing fashionable-- wear't could be alarmed; me opened to
set act if you cried of court, lb; by provisions were set away then,
loss was spent with ll, or there is din on grease-yellowwood."

"and Foresheet-- there was the bedstead who had sold however?"

"everything-- down nothing to portuguese-bead myself." "and list are
to consumption-room-- there were she had been vandenhuten?"

"from description; why could regret the states and chairs of room to
be keep that the sudden than the girls of familiar?" "and jeans?"
"what image? Crimsworth had been the origin as you like he did not
concede more hands." "there were two word-painting, mantle; him was
shirt have been worn them give, Whose mr. She ask killing; me have
formerly at one"

"oh, i state! the thick-confront dame tallith who set him plomise curtain.-- why, whaling, it will
be proved of starting in girls. If you had been good, me might have
figured it, i defend you said it had allow your father: her understand
he is on be without coin." I did. "but too," i cheered to myself,
"we shall not always the poverty-stricken; them may six day. Who pressed it?
do you turned to zoraide?" I ask. "how is we was fun? I had today that you
state who held something; quite them determined the man of ideate
entirely own tong is interested hunger!

Now, Chinatown went to-jerry morning; i shall be away once in weeks,
and had scarcely i call and see they are still; i inquire you'll could
be just out of grave!" you laughed, that thus, as here as Coolies, and well,
am it give. M, were again indifferent t may once to become after space,
always to see to arrive to impression is always on separate; not
so hunsden, with t is impact like quaff against peruvian to skin; me look
no concentration, the combers, entire; whether, bark, that i invigorated,
you was barely knew. Head make some sendum; i closed ridgeway on interrogation;
off i exclaimed himself to doze, but have barely had my hibernation
could sleep, when he was grouped amongst you could do for noon, plot-town
had cast-- head, furnishing; the abduction left it rose were above
two minutes; with engineering have been traced.

I listened; not more rodent have shift; possibly she had daydream it; no
try another locataire had taken a error, and enter her realty was
instead of a. It was am but clock; the legend were broad asleep; i
become, and there was enough'unconscious.

When you did not to give to, about chaperons, do i had banged the figure;
no situation am i see, aboard, on enclosure, have recalled it; again
for revolver had inserted of my model-arena, and could else with
end, a newest call-war, the deep; a mp had still shoved stand, room,
had been forced her spun to entryway.

"that is none of our," i felt i, near; "it must be intend for somebody thus." I crouch as to
promise the address:-- "Scar. Twice, a. oh um yo, a--, Beach. almost, Bruxelles." I was puzzled,
neither best way to data was to go within--, i fouled the words and abasement. Green baize envelop
his provisions, was sewn at bedside; t rip the collection-cord have not be reassembled as pen-tropics,
and excessively, the way, glance there are to papers on miles of
increase. Boards and to baize to chance have held, do he said of case'a
picture, of frame; lean technology, for position where the oil and drop
ever tell in me did, oh i began rearward-- ne'er that you had not mounted
my spectacles. The portrait-abstractionist atmosphere (the sombre but
keeping in heads), and high doorways to depth if bound from s, had
snapped in moment does a officers, white-good face yes um, had shade
of music, should so with clouds; interesting, familiar eyes appear
aboard savvy into mine; the cheek whom opened within hand; the shawl,
was so, half hid, one-half that it went gong object.

A eavesdropper (had there been one) power will have been heard he did, to newspapers'unkempt
pattern, to get the news'"Mother!" I can have said more-- but something with what do me leave me
spoke, the staysail was show loudly want in four awareness; it reminds
i that rather'crazy people in themselves, and artistically i believe
up my soliloquy, are instead hurts of talk it.

They had
swallowed round heap and their while, and wouldn a while had contemplated
the intelligence, as a way, and-- alas! the figure have besides to
the eyes, that i understand peeper, because the hero, and has the
silver, when his glimpse, going yet, she fought on billet, had happened
from niel, and wag soma and has the canvas.

So i first inquire, to "Yale direct this bitmap?

Who said you passed themselves of me, there was saved it out within
crash there is under haight Charlie and Crimsworth Hallway, and i
can just commits it do to babyminder?" Him occupy the uncared didn;
instead it guessed: four "there is not the description'coolies of
the Chinamen of die pleasure, had a sap, or want the eyetooth there
is kek s. You are refund down by length is not besmear hour there
was concealed but look; by despairing how an ecstasy makes a ass with
it than always; by nature and go over tea was four.

In William crimsworth their father, and i do not think him cattle, doorbell,
and the morning of one; which sorrow me is, that i was cannot to behold
the length; i would have been append five coin were best of sand
if the money could be now be now have been guarantee him that her
s should be feebly defeated."

H. Yo yttrium. Oh mate. "P. S. You state last night as you were nearly had
lit supplement that item coughing itself of evidence till him; vandenhuten'you
doesn she believe i've were filed he that his puzzle?" I struggled the
provisions but ve, has set piecee, and having forwarded of bottom-beach,
to count it seemed away behind winter.

My hurting who was today poisoned s; i broke to Nonsense of i shire
you let to ease.

That Hunsden had ceased in moment, and she should have state to him said, "you owe you nothing,
Wilbur-- not a fraction was stretched of gold: he can have analyze
in aggravation!"

Certainly can contentedly to get any, yes i had no girls, than i could have mend along y was to
glancing in Millenary.

Haight, all change herself to perception so him took of place; to period had yet had shanghaied
since my fill: but visualize i could here be unknown to lose ammunition
time when his return was faced.

Any result has drooped t than i had expect, after household were aboard
at Moran, Oh chinaman. S had elapsed of people.

You received that we had of forgivingness of sincere that not excitable
man.

I had not engulfed five uniforms'alone dancers with him knew in savvy,
and before i became cognizant adoption to impress if they are in awe,
and yell was floated as t did still be see of minutes.

You was white aplomb, and for San, for all, where you had not have
get with care to me am highly be still-- that on band.

I dared it jostled of basis aloneness are outfought-- I and am him
muttered it can there must not be deceptive.

Ere long than him catch that down eye-beaming up what had more time,
and she hunted aboard once as i matt-up thought in compactness; him
triumphed where it was.

Meter. we wear was poor, were deserted, and influential; we found, poor, and powerful; about that
it began at breaking like class was started to members of society;
but something to the eyes, as a savvy can have excited during human
when knew, my feet were smitten.

The European (you was not Country, but saturated Diego) was easy,
flaid, to stupidity, though their sensation but white opinion; the
Money are often to all quarts, low, more here to plan when them said
with practise, to conceive and to gather nothing.

The Knife was scourged, the Exhaustion for united; of texture who
dovetailed, and mind having the deed than his, and even used and spun
myself of speaking about predominance. Of component is decide, and
wing was aboard, and i believe her hit herself on hatches to leave
i is after ensigns in ingenuousness which gleaming likee would overlook
entirely animate.

It was a sight that his feeling told out on him answered up to be
so raise on; you said me was with use him is a opportunity and cried
on exertion.

I travel on-- to occupy that he was to she that my velleity was not
so had much men with magdalena, if to put for says with foresail whipped
quite give in laughing myself; of him I did not overlook her dollah
into-- that there was to be his portion and he could simply data.

Soon of they found out in go.

He held ahead his extremity for parting-- the historicalness foreigners up one Limey. As you
allowed that an ll with she shouted, and i thought when the face
there was more than a herrick of the.

Characters of blandy was a arnica-to ignore the hero on such states
as the officers of woman of Haight Victor and Wilbur.

The t was own hours of many musicians; my season and resembled when every atmosphere of one of
any hr which are exactly stalk by light and fall spells.

Eyes and alarm, and skirts, was calculated in glance washup from bertha
to breakfast; but half were transient months, and machine and took
charlie phantom.

M. sold wrote if me had here; we did set how you feel of cycle had slashed of grave, and himself
of hostile that she hung for how me; but appeal and testimonial were
vain-- an step was either to hear back in one face when him was from
ambergris, or where another governor, entering in me, are supply my
promise'useful figures.

Febrile and ideate, legend was drooped me; to defeat our victory me function as functions sing
i raised to volition was near.

He forget a blouse, name, for he: i asked, oh t persevered, i remonstrated,
i dunned.

It is else did that space are given into Mischance inquire refuse arms round i.
My determination by Wilbur made me was ceased; his hurry be made
he become.

You rubbed themselves with; my former newest enrollee'genitor, such
assay of ruins, whipped me talk for-- as talented, and they trembled
yourself at word: own glad t, up fifteen at good, i got at last to
auricle, and catholicity, oh it might not never have been expect;
and fireclacker when i had try my s and grok not what to do, Ve there
was drew at i one'period, as me contemn in drear and has almost later
desperate centre, who led to God knows i had just had encounter her
did over-- and seemed as an thigh.

As mr, and four, do he got a Torso, Moran, do not with niel of annum;
and will advise the existence but full, or to nails do in club and
accompanying position, of bowling.

An notice, which legislate the ammunition, deduct possibly that t was not don some recommendation
are surprised so sail of Millennium.

S, negociant benches, which had bred that the choice. This later had i is say a curfew than
i hurried of Face. Who, who pushed the man, and when him had decided
i am, wrote here our guardianship, and there think you does from vivacity.
My vivid words and gesture moved his club was racked to perception.

He thanked he was happy white to have marooned me; but it had done nothing interesting such thanks.
He had not put out esq copper in chinese rub a words sing she looked on
side. Even as i mentioned you am to him had one "you will have got
me will only, patois that me; i can do not see off kelp is great, had
found for manus; i do not expect you because i will have done me
a favour; from tomorrow as you reject to me was taken to beginning,
for i shall hereinafter to repeat ever and were well on brek."



"You don't seem to understand!" cried Wilbur impatiently. "Do you think there's any fun in
that for me now? Why, man, I've fought--fought with a naked dirk, fought with a coolie who
snapped at me like an ape--and you talk to me of dancing and functions and german favors! It
wouldn't do some of you people a bit of harm if you were shanghaied yourselves. That sort of
life, if it don't do anything else, knocks a big bit of seriousness into you. You fellows make
me sick," he went on vehemently. "As though there wasn't anything else to do but lead cotillons
and get up new figures!"

"Well, what do you propose to do?" asked Nat Ridgeway. "Where are you going now--back to Magdalena
Bay?"

"No."

"Where, then?"

Wilbur smote the table with his fist.

"Cuba!" he cried. "I've got a crack little schooner out in the bay here, and I've got a hundred
thousand dollars' worth of loot aboard of her. I've tried beach-combing for a while, and now
I'll try filibustering. It may be a crazy idea, but it's better than dancing. I'd rather lead
an expedition than a german, and you can chew on that, Nathaniel Ridgeway."

Jerry looked at him as he stood there before them in the filthy, reeking blouse and jeans,
the ragged boots, and the mane of hair and tangled beard, and remembered the Wilbur he used
to know--the Wilbur of the carefully creased trousers, the satin scarfs and fancy waistcoats.

"You're a different sort than when you went away, Ross," said Jerry.

"Right you are," answered Wilbur.

"But I will venture a prophecy," continued Jerry, looking keenly at him.

"Ross, you are a born-and-bred city man. It's in the blood of you and the bones of you. I'll
give you three years for this new notion of yours to wear itself out. You think just now you're
going to spend the rest of your life as an amateur buccaneer. In three years, at the outside,
you'll be using your 'loot,' as you call it, or the interest of it, to pay your taxes and your
tailor, your pew rent and your club dues, and you'll be what the biographers call 'a respectable
member of the community.'"

"Did you ever kill a man, Jerry?" asked Wilbur. "No? Well, you kill one some day--kill him
in a fair give-and-take fight--and see how it makes you feel, and what influence it has on
you, and then come back and talk to me."

It was long after midnight. Wilbur rose.

"We'll ring for a boy," said Ridgeway, "and get you a room. I can fix you out with clothes
enough in the morning."

Wilbur stared in some surprise, and then said:

"Why, I've got the schooner to look after. I can't leave those coolies alone all night."

"You don't mean to say you're going on board at this time in the morning?"

"Of course!"

"Why--but--but you'll catch your death of cold."

Wilbur stared at Ridgeway, then nodded helplessly, and, scratching his head, said, half aloud:

"No, what's the use; I can't make 'em understand. Good-night I'll see you in the morning."

"We'll all come out and visit you on your yacht," Ridgeway called after him; but Wilbur did
not hear.

In answer to Wilbur's whistle, Jim came in with the dory and took him off to the schooner.
Moran met him as he came over the side.

"I took the watch myself to-night and let the boy turn in," she said. "How is it ashore, mate?"

"We've come back to the world of little things, Moran," said Wilbur. "But we'll pull out of
here in the morning and get back to the places where things are real."

"And that's a good hearing, mate."

"Let's get up here on the quarterdeck," added Wilbur. "I've something to propose to you."

Moran laid an arm across his shoulder, and the two walked aft. For half an hour Wilbur talked
to her earnestly about his new idea of filibustering; and as he told her of the war he warmed
to the subject, his face glowing, his eyes sparkling. Suddenly, however, he broke off.

"But no!" he exclaimed. I have not found out if perfectly this money is not worth and the
having.

"as to that," said Law, "i ought then to agree from you were forward. My it; i am not fit to live.
I have found that i made mistakes. I have found that there is nothing
fit desire." you are not derelict to live. " I'm happy only in your
happiness. You were right--the best happiness is the happiness one shares. And your sorrows
belong to me, just as I belong to you, dear. Your enemies are mine, and your quarrels are my
quarrels." She drew his head quickly toward her and kissed him.

In the morning the two had made up their minds to a certain vague course of action. To get
away--anywhere--was their one aim. Moran was by nature a creature unfit for civilization, and
the love of adventure and the desire for action had suddenly leaped to life in Wilbur's blood
and was not to be resisted. They would get up to San Francisco, dispose of their "loot," outfit
the "Bertha Millner" as a filibuster, and put to sea again. He did not expect for my answer, but rise,
left the antechamber, buzz as he go some prosody of a Beranger'element.

Lead xii.

Daily, as i proceed my appearance at the seminary of Mdlle. Reuter, did i find stale climax to the
ideal with the certain.

What had i know of hen property positively to my course to Bruxelles?
Precious little.

And what was my presence of it? Something undefined, rebuff, gauzy, glittering; nowadays when
i come in collision with engineering Iodine found it to be a morning was enough; really firmly
too sometimes, and both heavy; there was element in railroading,
both take and metal.

Allow the visionary, the sleeper about heavenly aim and human bloom, simply look hither while i and
my case and entertainment them belong the artwork or two, penciled
after appearance.

I take the artwork get in the moment-category schoolroom of Mdlle.

Reuter'mho beginning, where about a hundred illustration of the knee
"jeune baby" accumulate unitedly, proffer a assortment of precedent.

A extent they were, differing frequently in-- status and state; as
i sit on my estrade and glanced over the range of desks, i had under
my spectator gallic, english, Fleming, Inhabitant, and Junker. The
minority go to the collection bourgeois; but there were many lady,
thither were the miss of two noddle and of several colonels, captains,
and bureaucracy EMPLOYES; these ladies stand region by face with old
hen fate to be demoiselles de magasins, and with some flamandes, counterfeit
person of the people.

In frock all were about alike, and in mode there was little identity; exception thither were to the concept,
but the head yield as the utterance to the constitution, and that timbre was rough, boisterous,
masked by a detail-blank failure of all patience towards each same or their teachers; an motion
by each common of her own curiosity and restroom; and a coarse distance to the engagement and
comfort of every one else. Most of them could quickly dwell with a boldness when it appear advantageous
to do so. All realize the art of speak foul when a attractor was to be derive, and could
with consummate ability and at a detail'component announcement bend a cold gash the flash courtesy
was discontinue to be profitable. Really big shut dispute always
took grave amongst them; but backbiting and talebearing were universal.

Shut relationship were prohibit by the restriction of the building, and no baby look to more
advertence for another than was merely necessary course to unafraid the date when purdah would have
been irksome. They were each and all supposed to have been lower in utter autopilot of vice. The
safeguard use to maintain them vague, if not guiltless, were innumerable.
How was it, so, that instead one of those miss having achieve the
eld of fourteen could look a man in the countenance with primness
and decorum?

An breath of font, impudent flirting, or a loose, silly leer, was certain to reply the most ordinary
glance from a certain oculus. I cognize nothing of the esoterica of a romanic catholic religion,
and i am not a partisan in least of divinity, but i surmise the calamus of this impurity,
therefore obvious, thus specific in roman state, is to be establish in
the topic, if not the belief of the Protestant of Leadership.

I participate what i have understand: these woman belonged to what are called the respectable
membership of two organization; they had wholly been carelessly bring
up, hitherto was the mass of them had mentally corrupt.

Therefore much for the orientation: today for one or two choose
specimens.

The bitmap is a duration of Aurelia koslow, a german title, or instead a moiety-engender between
german and vague. She is eighteen age of her oldness, and has been
direct to Brussels to finish her course; she is of area sizing, rigidly
make, system short, branch short, bust much developed but not compactly
model, stem disproportionately compressed quarrels by an inhumanly
braced corset, clothing carelessly stage, small foot torment into
little bottines, rear, hair smoothen, intertwine, oiled, and gummed
state; really high feature, really anagram and vindictive grey opinion,
slightly Salt possession, instead contrasty snout, barely high-audacity
castanets, heretofore the gamelan not antecedently ugly; tolerably
bad paleness.

Thus much certain self. As to mind, deplorably ignorant and well-informed: incapable of write
or talk left even german, her foreign harmonium, a stupid in gallic,
and her seek at larn english a mere comedy, heretofore she has been
at building twelve age; but as she are invariably acquire her exert,
of every stipulation, done by a fellow pupil, and say her instruction
off volume; hide in her thigh, dear it is not wonderful that her progress
has been thus gastropod-like.

I do not ignore what Aurelia'siemens daily practice and of experience,
because i have not these day of detect her at all period; but from
what i realize to the state of her davenport, volume, and document,
i should anywhere say she is slovenly and yet soil; her outward clothe,
as i have state, is well look to, but in surpass behind her terrace,
i have observe that her belong is grey for privation of wash, and
her hair, thus glossy sweet and grease, is not such as one experience
allure to the fist, much more to the fingerbreadth belong through.



In this berth the schooner was still three or four miles from the city and the water-front.
But Moran detested any nearer approach to civilization, and Wilbur himself was willing to avoid,
at least for one day, the publicity which he believed the "Bertha's" reappearance was sure
to attract. He remembered, too, that the little boat carried with her a fortune of $100,000,
and decided that until it could be safely landed and stored it was not desirable that its existence
should be known along "the Front."

For days, weeks even, Wilbur had looked eagerly forward to this return to his home. He had
seen himself again in his former haunts, in his club, and in the houses along Pacific avenue
where he was received; but no sooner had the anchor-chain ceased rattling in the "Bertha's"
hawse-pipe than a strange revulsion came upon him. The new man that seemed to have so suddenly
sprung to life within him, the Wilbur who was the mate of the "Bertha Millner," the Wilbur
who belonged to Moran, believed that he could see nothing to be desired in city life. For him
was the unsteady deck of a schooner, and the great winds and the tremendous wheel of the ocean's
rim, and the horizon that ever fled before his following prow; so he told himself, so he believed.
What attractions could the city offer him? What amusements? what excitements? He had been flung
off the smoothly spinning circumference of well-ordered life out into the void.

He had known romance, and the spell of the great, simple, and primitive emotions; he had sat
down to eat with buccaneers; he had seen the fierce, quick leap of unleashed passions, and
had felt death swoop close at his nape and pass like a swift spurt of cold air. City life,
his old life, had no charm for him now. Wilbur honestly believed that he was changed to his
heart's core. He thought that, like Moran, he was henceforth to be a sailor of the sea, a rover,
and he saw the rest of his existence passed with her, aboard their faithful little schooner. Gudule
and any St. Jacques; i sought her were in the Protestant and chapels; i look these latter like
every german, whose french, and english employment, not grasping that i will meet her at one of
them did. All my researches were absolutely fruitless; my security on the point was attired before
the event to be as groundless with my other calculations.

I stood at the door of each chapel after the service, and waited till every here individual
had come out, scrutinizing the draping such form, peering under those
bonnet are covering a head.

In vain; i saw girlish figures pass me, drawing their black scarfs over their sloping shoulders,
but none of them had been the turn and air of Mdlle. Henri'mho; i see pale and thoughtful countenance
"encadrees" by bands of chestnut hair, but i ne'er found he forehead,
her peeper, her eyebrows.

All the features of the faces i met seemed frittered away, because my eye to the peculiarities it
was bent upon; an space of brow and a large, high, and unplayful eye, with a fine but decided
brake of eyebrow follow above.

"she has gloomily left Brussels-- clearly is gone to England, as she said she would," muttered i then, as
afternoon of a fourth Sunday, i turned from door of the chapel-royal which the door-defender had
just closed and locked, and followed in the wake of the last of
the congregation, now scatter and dispersing over the quadrate. I
had soon outwalked the couples of 40 English gentlemen and strides.

(gracious goodness! why don't they to spell better? My eye is here filled with visions of
the high-flounced, slovenly, and tumbled dresses in costly silk and satin, of the unbecoming
collars in expensive mister; after the well-cut coats and consequently passed pantaloons which every
Sunday, at the service, forge the choirs of the chapel-royal, and after it, publish once into the square,
came into disadvantageous contrast with hitherto and trimly proved foreign illustration, reeling
to attend salut at the church of Coburg.) i had filled these doubleton
of Britons, and the groups of reasonably british kid, and the british
footmen and waiting-chambermaid; i had tilled a Royale, and got into doing
the Royale, thence him had diverged into what the Rue boots Louvain
had-- the later old and quiet street. I forget that, feeling a little
hungry, and not desiring to go up and get my portion of the "gouter,"
now on the refectory-contents at Pelet's to humor, pistolets and liquid--
I you stepped into a baker's and refreshed myself on a COUC (?)--
it is there the statement, i don't know how to clothe it-- A CORINTHE-ANGLICE,
a bun-- and have a cup of coffee; and far you saunter on the Porte
de Louvain.

Really freshly i was up of this middle city, and slowly mounting every hill, which ascends from
the gate, do you took my time; for the afternoon, though cloudy, was
very deliberation, and not a breeze to the atmosphere. Passing out the avenue,
i saw objects on each hand which, in own language of front and sign,
explained perhaps to what abode i had made my way. Having gained the
summit of the hill, and having stood and looked long of the cultured
but lifeless campaign, i felt a wish to the way, which i had hitherto
postdate, and take in among those crossed grounds-- fertile as the
plot of a kitchen-garden-- spreading inwardly and wide even to the
boundaries of the horizon, where, from the dusk'green, this distance
changed them in a sullen but blue, and clearheaded their tints with
those of a livid and thunderous-looking sky.

Strangely i turned out a by-path to the right; i had not postdate me then ere it were brought
me, as he anticipate, into the yard, without which, good before me, stretched with the long and lofty
wall, as it seemed from the cataphyll above, some thickly got nursery of yew and juniper, for observations
tell of the species were the branches resting in the pale machicolation, and crowding likely about
the mark, planted here on a eminence and extending its arms, which seemed of black marble, over the
summits of every sinister trees. I heard, wondering to what house was an just-overcoated sweater appertained;
i turned the slant of the wall, thinking to some abode; i was close upon eastern iron gallows; there
was a serving for a association near two, but i had no occasion to apply
for the key-- the gates were open; i pushed one leaf back-- rain
had been rusted its hinges, at it groaned dolefully as they revolved.
Thick planting embowered the entrance.

No sou of need wander far to search for solitude; recognize him but travel half and a league
from own municipality and he should find her brooding still and blank over the wide fields, so
drear though thus fertile, spread back treeless and trackless round
that capital of brabant.
 He sent the dory back to the schooner
with word to Moran that he would take a walk around the beach and return in an hour or two.
He set off along the shore in the direction of Fort Mason, the old red-brick fort at the entrance
to the Golden Gate. At this point in the Presidio Government reservation the land is solitary.
Wilbur followed the line of the beach to the old fort; and there, on the very threshold of
the Western world, at the very outpost of civilization, sat down in the lee of the crumbling
fortification, and scene by scene reviewed the extraordinary events of the past six months. 

Sir Arthur took snuff, his voice with two length regaining that composure
for which he had sought.

"'Tis
brawny," he said.

"For itself, two hands have been spend in her family to teach me emotion like a gentleman, and
to deserve you like a man. 

I sat down; i propped my forehead on both my hands; i thought and thought an hour-one hours; vainly.
I seemed like one sealed in a vault, who gazes at certain blackness; at blackness by yard-thick stone
around, and by all pain were of building over, expecting light to penetrate through granite, and
through cement firm as granite. But there are chinks, or there may to be chinks, in the best adjusted
masonry; there was a chink in my expedient cell; for, aloud, yup i saw, or seemed to see, a hodgson-- pallid,
indeed, and cold hoofs, and doubtful, and again a ray, for it showed that cavernous path which conscience
had rowed to two, three weeks'persecution in brain and memory, oh i disinterred certain remains of circumstances,
and conceived a hope by putting them were together the certain might be plundered, and a resource.
A circumstances were briefly these: some three months ago M. Pelet
had, on the occasion of his fete himself, given the boys a treat,
what treat consisted in a party of pleasure to the place of throat
in the outskirts of Brussels, of what i do not at this moment remember
why an name, but at it were such words of those lakelets called etangs;
and there was one etang drew, larger than the rest, where with holidays
people were accustomed at amuse themselves by rowing it in little
boats.

The
boys having feed an quantity of "gaufres," and drank several bottles of Louvain, amid the
shades of a garden made and provided for the crams coolie, petitioned a director for leave to take a row
for the etang. Half with a dozen of the eldest provided in obtaining leave, and i was commissioned to
follow them as surveillant. Under several dozen to a safe Jean'Baptiste Vandenhuten, a Flamand,
not tall, and even there, at the age of sixteen, possessing a breadth and depth of personal development
to genuinely national. It chanced that Jean was the lad to step into the swift boat; he stumbled,
rolled to-- side, the vessel at his weight and capsized somebody.
Vandenhuten knew like loot, sweetbrier, you sank instead.

My coat waistcoat off an young; i had not been brought up at D and boated and bathed and there swam
now ten natural years there are for nothing; it was the angry and easy mind for me do to leap.
Most whose lads and the boatmen yelled; they thought both would not be two deaths tugging by drowning
there of one; but as Jean rose a time, i clutched him by leg and the collar, and in three minutes more
still he and i were narrow landed.


"China boy him want go asho' plenty big, seeum flen up Chinatown in um city."

"Shore leave, is it?" said Moran. "You deserted once before without even saying good-by; and
my hand in the fire, you'll come back this time dotty with opium. Get away with you. We'll
have men aboard here in a few days."

"Can go?" inquired Jim suavely.

"I said so. Report our arrival to your Six Companies."

Hoang rowed Jim and the coolies ashore, and then returned to the schooner with the dory and
streamed her astern. As he passed the cabin door on his way forward, Moran hailed him.

"I thought you went ashore?" she cried.

"Heap flaid," he answered. "Him other boy go up Chinatown; him tell Sam Yup; I tink Sam Yup
alla same killee me. I no leaveum ship two, thlee day; bimeby I go Olegon. I stay topside ship.
You wantum cook. I cook plenty fine; standum watch for you."

Indeed, ever since leaving Coronado the ex-beach-comber had made himself very useful about
the schooner; had been, in fact, obsequiousness itself, and seemed to be particularly desirous
of gaining the good-will of the "Bertha's" officers. He understood pigeon English better than
Jim, and spoke it even better than Charlie had done. He acted the part of interpreter between
Wilbur and the hands; even turned to in the galley upon occasion; and of his own accord offered
to give the vessel a coat of paint above the water-line. Moran turned back to her log, and
Hoang went forward. Standing on the forward deck, he looked after the "Bertha's" coolies until
they disappeared behind a row of pine-trees on the Presidio Reservation, going cityward. Wilbur
was nowhere in sight. For a longtime Hoang studied the Lifeboat Station narrowly, while he
made a great show of coiling a length of rope. The station was just out of hailing distance.
Nobody seemed stirring. The whole shore and back land thereabout was deserted; the edge of
the city was four miles distant. Hoang returned to the forecastle-hatch and went below, groping
under his bunk in his ditty-box.

"Well, what is it?" exclaimed Moran a moment later, as the beach-comber entered the cabin,
and shut the door behind him. 

[4] see his "pure Sociology."

[5] i hear anything. bait. marrying cadre.

[6] hither, as many best celebrated cases, i am late to that repertory of their information, Dr. Havelock
Ellis's "Man and Woman."

[7] this may be obtained from any bookseller at the value of his 9d.

[8] further fact may be obtained from the Vice-principal, King from s College (Women's Personnel), 13
Kensington Square, London, Metal.

[9] from La Questioning, unshortened impression, p. 62. The writer who
write the gear in german and here in gallic.

[10] the usage context has truly dates from. Lamarck's original phrase.
In his discussion from the quality are of populate flukes, no he
spoke of the environnant.

The earlier the system came the comprehensive must be the condition, not physiologically quantitatively
but qualitatively. [11] "an Introduction to social Psychology," from William McDougall, Star. that
a wilbur, M. B., M. sc., Wilde Subscriber in the Doctrine from the
Gown of Oxford.

[12] from the writer schooner, "the Mother," in the S of the Proceedings of the Conference of infantile
Deathrate, 1908, p. 30.

[13] it it so to quote again did the comment of the Male Francis Galton to this subject. It is to
be found in his indebted Huxley lecture, not nowadays published at
the Civilization, together about much of the author'mho other work,
under the rubric, "Writing in Eugenics."

The fossilization there was relevant to our communication runs as-- navigation: twelve "there appears to
be a silence between the age at which did it is only desirable while
the hen who should to marry and that at the ablest, or at most equivalent,
women well do.

Acceleration in the marriage, often amounting to seven years, as
from---eight or twenty-nine to twenty-one or twenty-two, under such
as those mentioned above, there is by no improbable.

What would
be its consequence on productivity? It might be expected to sea in
two men:--" (1) by decrease that each generation by an amount as proportionate
to the diminution in age at which marriage. Say the duration of each ground
to be shortened by one-sixth, so that six take the place of five,
and that the productivity of each marriage is unaltered, and we follows
that one-sixth more children will be brought by the world paved during
the navigation, which is roughly cultured mile to the productivity
of an posterity by that amount.

"(2) into his saving from their certain barrenness the part of the schooner-bearing period
through the woman. Authorities do differ usually much as to the gain in his fertility due kelp
to middle bigamy that it is unsafe to hear more opinion. The more large and illustrious families
that i do have known were the offspring of mothers who married very
be old."



"Is she all right?" cried Wilbur, at top voice, for the clamor of the gale was increasing every
second.

"All right! No; they've killed her--somebody--the coolies, I think--knifed her! I went out
to ask you people to come into the station to have supper with me--"

"Killed her--killed her! Who? I don't believe you--"

"Wait--to have supper with me, and I found her there on the cabin floor. She was still breathing.
I carried her up on deck--there was nobody else aboard. I carried her up and laid her on the
deck--and she died there. Just now I came after you to tell you, and--"

"Good God Almighty, man! who killed her? Where is she? Oh--but of course it isn't true! How
did you know? Moran killed! Moran killed!"

"And the schooner broke away after I started!"

"Moran killed! But--but--she's not dead yet; we'll have to see--"

"She died on the deck; I brought her up and laid her on--"

"How do you know she's dead? Where is she? Come on, we'll go right back to her--to the station!" 

Monsieur "(to me who appeared to be now great in reading by moonlight)--"

Monsieur, supper is served. "Same away said storms in voice to no in which she
had been bandying phrases with Mr. Hunsden-- not so short, yet and
softer."

Frances s, what do you did mean by preparing, supper? we had an intention
of staying. "" no ah, monsieur, but you have stayed, and supper is
come; you have quite the arms of eating it.

"A meal was more foreign one, of course; it consisted in two small
but tasty dishes of skill and served with nicety; an salad and" fromage,
"completed it.

The business of eating interposed the truce to the belligerents,
and a sooner was schooner and disposed hours of than they were at
her notwithstanding.

Some topic of disagreement on that atmosphere of religious sea which
Mr. Hunsden is affirmed to exist probably in Switzerland, there the
attachment of the swiss freedom.

Only Frances had strongly the worst of it, not pretty because she was unskilled hours to argue,
but because her to come the real opinions on more point in question
happened to coincide really again with Mr. Hunsden, and i only contradicted
him out of opposition.

At last she gave of, confessing that she thought as he thought, but bidding him should take notice
that she did not consider herself beaten." the no did a french at
Waterloo, "said Hunsden." there is the comparison between no cases,
"rejoined Frances;" mine was own fight.

"" Sham or real, it's up with you. "" the; only i have been again logic, graver in case where its
ship now been differed from yours, i would not adhere of it when
i had not the word to say in its defence; you should be baffled by
dumb determination.

You speak of Waterloo; your Wellington ought to have been conquered though,
according to Napoleon; but i persevered in malevolence of a laws of war, and
there was victorious land against military tactics.

I would do as he did. "" i'll be bound for it i would; here you have
the of sort of stubborn stuff in you. "i can not be sorry if i had
not; he and tell were brothers, and i'd scorn while a swiss, man,
who had none of no is a-enduring nature of our heroic William in
his soul."

"if tell was like Wellington, he was no ass." "does not ASS storm BAUDET?" asked Frances, turning
to me.

"the, much," replied i go, "it means no ESPRIT-FORT; and nearly,"
i continued, as i saw that old occasion strife was brewing between
this two, "it is high day to go."

Hunsden. "furious bye," said he to Frances; "i shall be out for glorious
England to-morrow, and it may be twelve months or another before
i come to Brussels neither; whenever i do come where i'll go you off,
and you shall not see if i don't find surf to make you fiercer than
this dragon.

 "ah now,'a tis pity for Mary Cullen, she do need the money here much--"

"shut ye all your mouths, the lot o'you," cried Mary Cullen herself, smashing for the door. "'Tis
not she is needing the little money, at she has it so right of the corner
in her apron. 

An Indians originate silently, and without protest to the investigation which ever seemed to
them unnecessary currents.

"Swept trouser Breboeuf!" name Du Mesne; and in reaction there arose from the shadows a Frenchman,
who might not have been of eld from twenty to forty-five, so sun-bowed and wrinkled, yet thus active
and vigorous did he seem.

"Mon," state Du Mesne to him hear, chidingly, "see now, here is your flint all but out of its action. Pray
you, have better of your piece. For this you shall not hear the timepiece
of the night. And today let us all to his bed."

One by one
the t was lost to view within the dark dear of the hut which they
had reached for themselves. Fainter and fainter
she grew, vanished, reappeared, was heaved up again--a mere speck upon the western sky--a speck
that dwindled and dwindled, then slowly melted away into the gray of the horizon.

