Not long after our departure from Manistee, which occurred early on the following morning,
a sudden squall threatened us; and a few minutes later, a terrific flash and peal broke almost
simultaneously upon us, followed by a violent shower. Fortunately, it lasted but a short time.
The tempest gradually ceased; the irregular and blinding flashes became fewer and the thunder
rolled less loudly. Gradually the scene changed to one of peaceful beauty so that the rose
light of the radiant sun-ball appeared in the heavens; casting a new glory on the picturesque
scenery of water and shore.

The surface of the lake had become calm; and speeding along, we enjoyed the lovely weather
which was not destined to continue. For, toward midday a fresh breeze rippled the waters that
by degrees were transformed into towering waves, shaking their foamy crests, and tossing us
angrily from side to side; and we were not sorry when we reached the harbor of Muskegon, about
six miles from Muskegon City, situated on the same-named river which here, four miles from
its mouth, widens into Muskegon Lake. It is the best harbor on the east side of the great lake.
The city has daily steamboat navigation with Chicago; and saws and ships enormous quantities
of lumber. Its principal manufactories are a number of foundries, machine shops, and boiler
works. The present population is estimated to comprise about 24,000.

While admiring the lovely scenery enhanced by an enchanting sunset, from the deck of the yacht,
our attention was distracted by approaching footsteps. In the uncertain, fading daylight, we
perceived a gentleman accompanied by a lady--curiously regarding us--whom we invited on board
the "Marguerite."

Mrs. and Mr. Wickham were the names by which this fair couple was introduced. That they spent
the evening in our company, was very acceptable to us--as we but rarely had visitors on our
pilgrimage. They greatly admired our floating home, and as the moon arose to bathe us with
his silvery light, they took their departure.

The young archer--morn--broke his arrows on the remote hills, walking golden-sandaled down
the lake, when we continued our voyage.

The still waters were soon lashed into fury again by an unfavorable wind, increasing toward
midday to such a degree that we were glad to take refuge in the harbor of South Haven, where
we lingered until the dawn of another day.

Opposite the mooring-place of the "Marguerite" stood an edifice whose interior we all longed
to view. Having so unexpectedly become acquainted with the Life-Saving Service on the occasion
of our adventure near Thunder Bay, we were anxious to learn more about that noble institution.
In the afternoon we set out for the South Haven Life-Saving Station whose captain, an obliging
gentleman, gave us very satisfactory explanations. He first called our attention to the splendid
qualities of the life-boat: such as its power to right itself if upset; the capability of immediate
self-discharge when filled with water; its strength; resistance to overturning; speed against
a heavy sea; buoyancy; and facility in launching and taking the shore.

We then inspected the diverse apparatuses utilized for rescuing the shipwrecked.

A very clever contrivance, especially appropriate for saving invalids, children, and aged persons
is the metallic car, a small covered boat, which can hold three or four persons who, entering
by a comparatively small aperture, are shut in and drawn ashore, safely protected from injury
even though overturned by the surf.

For projecting a line over a stranded vessel a howitzer is used; and in this way a communication
is secured to the shore. The cork life-belts worn by the men, are of the plan first designed
by Admiral Ward.

It is safe to say that the United States Life-Saving Service is chief among the life-boat societies
of other nations, both as regards the extent of coast embraced, and the amount of work done.
The whole support of this service is provided for by annual grants from Congress. Besides its
vast coast line, it guards the shores of its great lakes. Since the sea-bordering portions
of America in many places are destitute of human habitations, the constant employment of surfmen
is required for the express purpose of looking out for vessels in distress and manning the
surf-boats. It also necessitates the erection of houses of refuge provisioned so as to afford
shelter and food to shipwrecked sailors for a considerable time at places, where without such
provisions those who escape the sea, would probably perish from hunger and exposure.

The shores of the United States lakes and sea comprise over 10,000 miles, embracing almost
every variety of climate and formation of land. This great extent of sea-board is divided into
twelve districts with in all 244 stations. Of these 182 are on the Atlantic, forty-nine on
the lakes, and twelve on the Pacific. Many of the stations are closed during the fine months
of the year; their crews being disbanded till the winter gales again summon them to their heroic
and dangerous work. That they render noble service in this way, may be gathered from the annual
reports.

The official statement of 1893 shows that the disasters to shipping in that year amounted to
427 cases; that on board of vessels thus endangered there were 3,565 persons of whom 3,542
were saved.

After we had thus enriched our knowledge referring to this humane institution with its present
effective system, we proceeded to the neighboring shore of Lake Michigan, here forming a beautiful
beach. The polished and print-less sand studded with small, shining pepples spread before us
in vast expanse; and the magnificent waters of the lake glittered in the sun-beams as though
they were sown with diamonds. When the surf came in, and the white fringe of the sliding wave
shot up the beach, the light color of the sand was deepened to a silvery gray. As much as we
marred and defaced its fine-grained, bright surface, it was ever beaten down anew by the advancing
and retreating waves. We had hardly deserted this lovely spot, when our foot prints were washed
away by the ever returning sea.

On Monday at an advanced hour in the evening we departed from South Haven. Since the glories
of the sunset, with its witchery of rose and gold, promised a fine night, we decided to continue
our voyage as far as Michigan City.

The panorama we witnessed during that nocturnal trip was as magnificent as can be imagined.
The full-orbed moon on the wave was beautiful; and so was the landscape bathed in its light.

Toward 10 o'clock we arrived at our destination, a town in La Porte Co., Indiana.

Michigan City is the largest lumber-market in the State, and has numerous manufacturing establishments.
As a lake-port, it is a place of considerable prosperity comprising a population of about 11,000.

It was in the early morning, Tuesday, August 22nd, that we left Michigan City. Having sailed
along the coast of the lake for about three hours, we discerned in the misty distance the site
of the "Queen of the West."

At twenty minutes to 9 o'clock, it became plainly cognizable. In transports of delight we glanced
at a vast, verdant tract of land adorned with magnificent structures appearing to be of the
purest marble; in their matchless beauty imparting to the mind some grand allegorical tableau,
intending to convey the poet's idea of the New Jerusalem.

It was the famous White City, the site of the World's Columbian Exposition, that charmed our
eyes and gratified our taste so much. No one can adequately describe that sight as seen from
the clear waters of the lake.--I imagine that our illustrious Columbus must have been equally
affected as he beheld Guanahani, that fruitful island in its wild luxuriance, on his first
landing in the New World.

CHAPTER IV.

STAY IN CHICAGO AND VISIT TO THE WORLD'S FAIR.

Our arrival in Chicago put an end to our pleasurable voyage comprising the considerable length
of 1,243 miles, during which

   "The waves were our pillow,
      Our cradle the sea:
    When rough was the billow
      Not timid were we."

This westward trip afforded us every hour a revelation of the surprising growth of the nation
that lives under the Stars and Stripes. My traveling companions were equally delighted with
this course, notwithstanding their being preacquainted with that portion of the west, whose
rapid development makes it practically a new and another west every ten years. In fact, America
astonishes the world; and it is no common pleasure to study and note the progress of this great
republic of which Chicago is the second city in commercial importance, as well as in population.

We were anxious to obtain an adequate conception of the site of a city that is the synonym
of push and prosperity, and to which Congress had awarded the World's Columbian Exposition.
Therefore, the yacht was moored inside the breakwater, near the mouth of the inlet, called
the Chicago River, which runs from the lake nearly one mile westward; then separates into two
branches, one flowing northwest, the other southwest; thus dividing Chicago into three divisions,
connected by more than thirty-five bridges, and two tunnels laid under the bed of the river.
This streamlet used to empty into Lake Michigan; but a remarkable piece of engineering caused
it to change its course and so to speak, run "uphill." The Illinois and Michigan Canal, with
which the main branch of the river is connected, was so deepened as to draw the water out from
the lake, so that--through this channel emptying into the Illinois River--the water of Lake
Michigan flows into the Gulf of Mexico by means of the Mississippi River. Had it been later
in the season, we might have decided to follow this watercourse in order to view the fertile
Mississippi River Valley, and to enjoy the beauties of the sunny south.

The largest vessels may be towed into the Chicago River, being supplied with docks and water-slips
and affording a dockage capacity of nearly forty miles.--Originally named Chacaqua River, (the
Indian word for thunder, after the Indian Thor or Thunder God), it is supposed to have given
the city its name.

At midday we left our anchorage--on which the eye of heaven shone almost too hot--and undertook
our first trip to the Fair Grounds. Seated on deck, we inhaled the invigorating, fresh breeze
sweeping over the lake and modified by the burning rays of the sun that kissed the brilliant,
blue waters beneath, with his golden face, gilding them with heavenly alchemy.

High ran our anticipations as we were approaching the renowned White City, to which representatives
of all nations have made a pilgrimage.

At the expiration of about one-half hour, we reached the pier, destined for the halting-place
of yachts; and welcomed by the supervisor of the harbor, we went on shore.

The first impression was bewildering. Americans have reason to be proud of what was to be viewed
in Jackson Park; as such buildings no previous generations of men have seen, congregated in
this manner; and the display of the achievements of science, art, and industries, exhibited
in them, has undoubtedly eclipsed all other expositions in the world's annals of progress.

It seems impossible to give so adequate a pen-picture of the World's Fair as to impart to the
reader an accurate idea of its true grandeur. Many minds have essayed already to reproduce
what they have witnessed there; many pens have attempted to record exactly the incomparable
impression the exposition effected upon its visitors, but, it is safe to say, without even
faintly describing it; for, can language convey to a blind man what "color" means, or to a
deaf person the meaning of music?--No more can the pen of the most gifted author adequately
portray the World's Columbian Exposition. If one would give to each building a volume; a shelf
to the Midway Plaisance; and to the exhibitions a whole library in way of description, yet
half of its beauties and wonders would not be told.--

Leaving the "Marguerite" at the North Pier, our attention was called to a unique exhibit made
by the U.S. Navy Department, a structure representing a faithful model of a modern coast-line
battle-ship. This full-sized imitation man-of-war "Illinois" was completely equipped erected
on piling on the lake front, and surrounded by water, so as to give the appearance of being
moored to a wharf. Here the Government showed also a war baloon, a light-house, a life-saving
station complete with apparatus, and a gun battery.

Proceeding a little westward, we viewed a building, delightfully located, bearing a strong
resemblance to the National Museum at Washington. This imposing edifice classic in style, and
adorned by a central octagonal dome was the United States Government Building; to the southward
of which rose the largest of the Exposition structures, the Manufactures and Liberal Arts Building,
notable for its gigantic but symmetrical proportions, covering an area of more than thirty-one
acres.

Looking in a southern direction, we caught sight of the pier extending 1,000 feet into the
lake, and affording a landing-place for steamers. It was bounded on the east by the beautiful
facade of the Casino, which presented a decidedly Venetian aspect; its nine pavilions being
in communication both by gondolas and bridges. At the west end of the pier stood thirteen stately
columns emblematic of the Thirteen Original States of the Union.

Rising out of the lagoon, the colossal Statue of the Republic, the largest ever built in America,
predominated over this charming scene.

Beyond it extended a broad basin from which grassy terraces and broad walks led on the southward
to one of the most magnificent edifices raised for the exposition, the Agricultural Building.
In style of architecture it pertained to the classic renaissance and was erected at a cost
of about $1,000,000.

From the pier westward across the park, we walked through an avenue, several feet long; affording
a view of almost unparalleled splendor. Encompassing a beautiful sheet of water, the majestic
facades of imposing buildings attracted our eyes; above all, a superb guilded dome shimmering
in the sun-light, and pertaining to the Administration Building, which was pronounced the gem
and crown of the Exposition structures. In general design in the style of the French renaissance,
it was built at an expense of about $550,000.

Located at the extreme south of the park rose the stately Machinery Hall, following classical
models throughout, and being especially rich in architectural lines and details. Its construction
required a sum of $1,000,000.

Facing the Grand Avenue, our eyes rested with delight upon two immense edifices on either side
of the Administration Building, one for the Electrical and the other for the Mining Exhibit.

Turning to the northward, we viewed the Transportation Building, exquisitely refined and simple
in architectural treatment, although very rich and costly in detail.

On our right we beheld one of the most notable spots in Jackson Park, (viz) Wooded Island,
a gem of primitive nature, agreeably contrasting with the grand productions of human skill
surrounding it. Close by was the Palace of Horticulture, the largest structure ever erected
for such purpose, costing about $400,000.

