Nothing could stop Henry's passion for Anne, and she showed her wonderful cleverness in the
way she kept his love alive for years, being first created Marchioness of Pembroke, and ultimately
triumphing over every obstacle and gaining her wish of being his Queen. This phase of her character
has been nicely touched by Shakespeare's own deft hand. She was crowned with unparalleled splendour
on Whit Sunday of 1533. At the banquet held after the Coronation of Anne Boleyn, we read that
two Countesses stood on either side of Anne's chair and often held a "fine cloth before the
Queen's face whenever she listed to spit." "And under the table went two gentlewomen, and sat
at the Queen's feet during the dinner." The courtier's life, like the burglar's does not appear
to have been one of unmixed happiness.

In the same year she bore Henry a child, but to everyone's disappointment, it proved to be
a girl, who was christened Elizabeth, and became the great Queen of England. Anne's triumph
was pathetically brief. Her most important act was that of getting the publication of the Bible
authorised in England. Two years after her coronation, Sir Thomas More, who had refused to
swear fealty to the King's heir by Anne, who had been thrown into prison and was awaiting execution,
asked "How Queen Anne did?" "There is nothing else but dancing and sporting," was the answer.
In a year's time, this prophecy came true. Her Lady-in-Waiting, the beautiful Jane Seymour,
stole the King from her who in her time had betrayed her royal mistress.

There are two versions with regard to her last feelings towards the King. Lord Bacon writes
that just before her execution she said: "Commend me to his Majesty and tell him he hath ever
been constant in his career of advancing me. From a private gentlewoman he made me a marchioness,
from a marchioness a Queen; and now he hath left no higher degree of honour, he gives my innocency
the crown of martyrdom." This contains a fine sting of satire. One cannot but think that this
latter version of her dying words may have been edited by his Grace of Canterbury.

If it is difficult to reconcile Anne's heartlessness with her piety, it should be remembered
that cruelty is often the twin-sister of religious fervour.

Whatever may have been her failings of character, whatever misfortunes she may have suffered
during her life, Anne will ever live in history as one of the master mistresses of the world.

THE DIVORCE

As to the divorce, it will be well to clear away the enormous amount of argument, of vituperation
and prevarication by which the whole question is obscured, and to seek by the magnet of common
sense to find the needle of truth in this vast bundle of hay.

The situation was complicated. In those days it was generally supposed that no woman could
succeed to the throne, and a male successor was regarded as a political necessity. Charles
V., too, was plotting to depose Henry and to proclaim James V. as ruler of England, or Mary,
who was to be married to an English noble for this purpose.

The Succession

The Duke of Buckingham was the most formidable possible heir to the throne, were the King to
die without male heirs. His execution took place in 1521. Desperate men take desperate remedies.
Now, in 1519, Henry had a natural son by Elizabeth Blount, sister of Lord Mountjoy. This boy
Henry contemplated placing on the throne, so causing considerable uneasiness to the Queen.
In 1525 he was created Duke of Richmond. Shortly after he was made Lord High Admiral of England
and Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. It was suggested that he should marry a royal Princess. Another
suggestion was that he should marry his half-sister, an arrangement which seems to have commended
itself to the Pope, on condition that Henry abandoned his divorce from Queen Katharine! But
this was not to be, and Mary was betrothed to the French prince. An heir must be obtained somehow,
and the divorce, therefore, took more and more tangible shape. A marriage with Anne Boleyn
was the next move. To attain this object, Henry applied himself with his accustomed energy.
His conscience walked hand in hand with expediency.

To Rome, Henry sent many embassies and to the Universities of Christendom much gold, in order
to persuade them to yield to the dictates of his conscience. His passion for marriage lines
in his amours was one of Henry's most distinguishing qualities.

In 1527 an union between Francis I. and the Princess Mary was set on foot. Here the question
of Mary's legitimacy was debated, and this gave Henry another excuse for regarding the divorce
as necessary.

As the modern historian might aptly say: "Here was a pretty kettle of fish."

There can be little doubt that as a man of God, Wolsey strongly disapproved of the divorce,
but as the King's Chancellor he felt himself bound to urge his case to the best of his ability.
He was in fact the advocate--the devil's advocate--under protest. One cannot imagine a more
terrible position for a man of conscience to be placed in, but once even a cardinal embarks
in politics the working of his conscience is temporarily suspended. In world politics the Ten
Commandments are apt to become a negligible quantity.

Henry's conscience was becoming more and more tender. Much may be urged in favour of the divorce
from a political point of view, and no doubt Henry had a powerful faculty of self-persuasion--such
men can grow to believe that whatever they desire is right, that "there is nothing either good
or bad but thinking makes it so." It is a pity, however, that Henry's scruples did not assert
themselves before the marriage with Katharine took place, for the ethical arguments against
such an union were then equally strong. Indeed, these scruples appear to have been a "family
failing," for Henry's sister Margaret, Queen of Scotland, obtained a dispensation of divorce
from Rome on far slenderer grounds. To make matters worse for Henry, Rome was sacked--the Pope
was a prisoner in the Emperor's hands. In this state of things, the Pope was naturally disinclined
to give offence to the Emperor by divorcing his aunt (Katharine).

At all costs, the Pope must be set free--on this errand Wolsey now set out for France. But
Charles V. was no less wily than Wolsey, and dispatched Cardinal Quignon to Rome to frustrate
his endeavours, and to deprive Wolsey of his legatine powers. A schism between Henry and Wolsey
was now asserting itself--Wolsey being opposed to the King's union with Anne Boleyn. ("We'll
no Anne Boleyns for him!") Wolsey desired that the King should marry the French King's sister,
in order to strengthen his opposition to Charles V. of Spain.

The Cardinal was indeed in an unenviable position. If the divorce succeeded, then his enemy,
Anne Boleyn, would triumph and he would fall. If the divorce failed, then Henry would thrust
from him the agent who had failed to secure the object of his master. And in his fall the Cardinal
would drag down the Church. It is said that Wolsey secretly opposed the divorce. This is fully
brought out in Shakespeare's play, and is indeed the main cause of Wolsey's fall.

There was for Henry now only one way out of the dilemma into which the power of the Pope had
thrown him--that was to obtain a dispensation for a bigamous marriage. It seems that Henry
himself cancelled the proposition before it was made. This scruple was unnecessary, for the
Pope himself secretly made a proposition "that His Majesty might be allowed two wives."

The sanction for the marriage with Anne Boleyn was obtained without great difficulty--but it
was to be subject to the divorce from Katharine being ratified. Thus the King was faced with
another obstacle. At this moment began the struggle for supremacy at Rome between English and
Spanish influence. The Pope had to choose between the two; Charles V. was the victor, whereupon
Henry cut the Gordian knot by throwing over the jurisdiction of Rome. Wolsey was in a position
of tragic perplexity. He was torn by his allegiance to the King, and his zeal for the preservation
of the Church. He wrote: "I cannot reflect upon it and close my eye, for I see ruin, infamy
and subversion of the whole dignity and estimation of the See Apostolic if this course is persisted
in." But Pope Clement dared not offend the Emperor Charles, who was his best, because his most
powerful ally, and had he not proved his power by sacking Rome? The Pope, although quite ready
to grant dispensations for a marriage of Princess Mary and her half-brother, the Duke of Richmond,
though he was ready to grant Margaret's divorce, could not afford to stultify the whole Papal
dignity by revoking the dispensation he had originally given that Henry should marry his brother's
wife. Truly an edifying embroglio! Henry was desirous of shifting the responsibility on God
through the Pope--the Pope was sufficiently astute to wish to put the responsibility on the
devil through Henry. There was one other course open--that course the Pope took.

In 1528 he gave a Commission to Wolsey and Cardinal Campeggio to try the case themselves, and
pronounce sentence. Back went the embassy to England. Wolsey saw through the device, for the
Pope was still free to revoke the Commission. Indeed Clement's attitude towards Henry was dictated
entirely by the fluctuating fortune of Charles V., Emperor of Spain. Meanwhile, Charles won
another battle against the French, and the Pope at once gave secret instructions to Campeggio
to procrastinate, assuring Charles that nothing would be done which should be to the detriment
of Katharine. The wily Campeggio (emissary of the Pope) at first sought to persuade Henry to
refrain from the divorce. Henry refused. Thereupon he endeavoured to persuade Katharine voluntarily
to enter a nunnery. Among all these plotters and intriguers, Katharine, adamant in her virtue,
maintained her position as lawful wife and Queen.

When Wolsey and Campeggio visited the Queen she was doing needlework with her maids. It appears
(and this is important as showing the inwardness of Wolsey's attitude in the matter of the
divorce) that "from this interview the Queen gained over both legates to her cause; indeed,
they would never pronounce against her, and this was the head and front of the King's enmity
to his former favourite Wolsey." In the first instance, Wolsey was undoubtedly a party, however
unwilling, to the separation of the King and Queen, in order that Henry might marry the brilliant
and high-minded sister of Francis I., Duchess of Alençon. That lady would not listen to such
a proposal, lest it should break the heart of Queen Katharine. Wolsey was, either from personal
enmity towards Anne Boleyn or from his estimate of her character, or from both, throughout
opposed to the union with that lady.

Subsequently the King sent to Katharine a deputation from his Council announcing that he had,
by the advice of Cranmer, obtained the opinions of the universities of Europe concerning the
divorce, and found several which considered it expedient. He therefore entreated her, for the
quieting of his conscience, that she would refer the matter to the arbitration of four English
prelates and four nobles. The Queen received the message in her chamber, and replied to it:
"God grant my husband a quiet conscience, but I mean to abide by no decision excepting that
of Rome." This infuriated the King.

After many delays and the appearance of a document which was declared by one side to be a forgery,
and by the other to be genuine, the case began on May 31, 1529. In the great hall of Blackfriars
both the King and Queen appeared in person to hear the decision of the Court. The trial itself
is very faithfully rendered in Shakespeare's play. Finding the King obdurate, Katharine protested
against the jurisdiction of the Court, and appealing finally to Rome, withdrew from Blackfriars.

Judgment was to be delivered on the 23rd of July, 1529. Campeggio rose in the presence of the
King and adjourned the Court till October. This was the last straw, and the last meeting of
the Court. Henry had lost. Charles was once more in the ascendant. England and France had declared
war on him in 1528, but England's heart was not in the enterprise--the feeling of hatred to
Wolsey became widespread. Henry and Charles made terms of peace, and embraced once more after
a bloodless and (for England) somewhat ignominious war. The French force was utterly defeated
in battle. The Pope and Charles signed a treaty--all was nicely arranged. The Pope's nephew
was to marry the Emperor's natural daughter; certain towns were to be restored to the Pope,
who was to crown Charles with the Imperial crown. The participators in the sacking of Rome
were to be absolved from sin; the proceedings against the Emperor's aunt, Katharine, were to
be null and void. If Katharine could not obtain justice in England, Henry should not have his
justice in Rome. The Pope and the Emperor kissed again, and Henry finally cut himself adrift
from Rome. It was the failure of the divorce that made England a Protestant country. The mind
shrinks from contemplating the tortures to which the soul of His Majesty might have been subjected
but for the timely intervention of his Grace the Archbishop of Canterbury.

So far from Henry suffering in a temporal sense, he continued to defy the opinion and the power
of the world. He showed his greatness by looking public opinion unflinchingly in the face;
by ignoring, he conquered it. Amid the thunderous roarings of the Papal bull, Henry stood--as
we see him in his picture--smiling and indifferent. "I never saw the King merrier than now,"
wrote a contemporary in 1533. Henry always had good cards--now he held the ace of public opinion
up his sleeve.

Wolsey, although averse to the Queen's divorce and the marriage of Anne Boleyn, expressed himself
in terms of the strongest opposition to the overbearing Pope. Opposed as they were to the divorce,
the English people were of one mind with Wolsey in this attitude.

Henry was not slow to avail himself of the new development, and he made the divorce become
in the eyes of the people but a secondary consideration to the pride of England. He drew the
red herring of the Reformation across the trail of the divorce. The King and his Parliament
held that the Church should not meddle with temporal affairs. The Church was the curer of souls,
not the curer of the body politic.

Katharine's cause sank into the background. The voice of justice was drowned by the birth shrieks
of the Reformation.

THE REFORMATION

We must remind ourselves that the divorce was merely the irritation which brought the discontent
with Rome to a head. Religious affairs were in a very turbulent state. The monasteries were
corrupt. The rule of Rome had become political, not spiritual. Luther had worked at shattering
the pretensions of the Pope in Europe. Translations of the New Testament were being secretly
read throughout the country--a most dangerous innovation--and Anne Boleyn, who had no cause
to love the Pope or his power, held complete sway over the King.

She and her father were said to be "more Lutheran than Luther himself." Though Henry was anti-Papal,
he was never anti-Catholic, but, as the representative of God, as head of his own Church, he
claimed to take precedence of the Pope. Moreover, the spoliation of the Church was not an unprofitable
business.

Rome declared the divorce illegal. Henry, with the support of his Parliament, abolished all
forms of tribute to Rome, arranged that the election of Bishops should take place without the
interference of the Pope, and declared that if he did not consent to the King's wishes within
three months, the whole of his authority in England should be transferred to the Crown. This
conditional abolition of the Papal authority was in due course made absolute, and the King
assumed the title of Head of the Church. One by one, in this deadly battle, did the Pope's
prerogatives vanish, until the sacerdotal foundations of Rome, so far as England was concerned,
had been levelled to the ground.

After many further political troubles and intrigues Henry prevailed on Cranmer, now Archbishop
of Canterbury, as head of the Church, to declare the marriage between himself and Katharine
to be null and void, and five days later Cranmer declared that Henry and Anne Boleyn were lawfully
married. On the 1st of June, 1533, the Archbishop crowned Anne as Queen in Westminster Abbey.
Shortly after she gave birth to a daughter, who was christened Elizabeth, and became Queen
of England.

Beyond this incident, with which the strange eventful history of Shakespeare's play ends, it
is not proposed to travel in these notes, which are but intended as a brief chronicle that
may guide the play-goer of to-day (sometimes a hasty reader) to realize the conditions of Henry's
reign.

MANNERS AND CUSTOMS

In the days of Henry VIII., the ways of society differed from our own more in observance than
in spirit. Though the gay world danced and gambled very late, they rose very early. Their conversation
was coarse and lacked reserve. The ladies cursed freely. Outward show and ceremony were considered
of the utmost importance. Hats were worn by the men in church and at meals, and only removed
in the presence of the King and Cardinal. Kissing was far more prevalent as a mode of salutation.
The Court society spent the greater part of their income on clothes. To those in the King's
set, a thousand pounds was nothing out of the way to spend on a suit of clothes. The predominant
colours at Court were crimson and green; the Tudor colours were green and white. It was an
age of magnificent plate, and the possession and display of masses of gold and silver plate
was considered as a sign of power. Later on in Shakespeare's time, not only the nobles, but
also the better class citizens boasted collections of plate.

A quaint instance of the recognition of distinctions of rank is afforded by certain "Ordinances"
that went forth as the "Bouche of Court." Thus a Duke or Duchess was allowed in the morning
one chet loaf, one manchet and a gallon of ale; in the afternoon one manchet and one gallon
of ale; and for after supper one chet loaf, one manchet, one gallon of ale and a pitcher of
wine, besides torches, etc. A Countess, however, was allowed nothing at all after supper, and
a gentleman usher had no allowance for morning or afternoon. These class distinctions must
have weighed heavily upon humbler beings, such as Countesses; but perhaps they consumed more
at table to make up for these after-meal deficiencies.

Table manners were a luxury as yet undreamed of. The use of the fork was a new fashion just
being introduced from France and Spain.

A NOTE ON THE PRODUCTION OF HENRY VIII. AT HIS MAJESTY'S THEATRE

From the descriptions which have appeared in these pages, it will be seen that the period of
Henry VIII. was characterized by great sumptuousness; indeed, the daily life of the Court consisted
largely of revels, masques and displays of splendour.

Henry VIII. is largely a pageant play. As such it was conceived and written, as such we shall
endeavour to present it to the public. Indeed, it is obvious that it would be far better not
to produce the play at all than to do so without those adjuncts, by which alone the action
of the play can be illustrated. Of course, it is not possible to do more than indicate on the
stage the sumptuousness of the period of history covered by the play; but it is hoped that
an impression will be conveyed to our own time of Henry in his habit as he lived, of his people,
of the architecture, and of the manners and customs of that great age.

The Text

It has been thought desirable to omit almost in their entirety those portions of the play which
deal with the Reformation, being as they are practically devoid of dramatic interest and calculated,
as they are, to weary an audience. In taking this course, I feel the less hesitation as there
can be no doubt that all these passages were from the first omitted in Shakespeare's own representations
of the play.

We have incontrovertible evidence that in Shakespeare's time, Henry VIII. was played in "two
short hours."

These words, addressed to the audience in the prologue, make it quite clear that a considerable
portion of the play was considered by the author to be superfluous to the dramatic action--and
so it is. Acted without any waits whatsoever, Henry VIII., as it is written, would take at
least three hours and a half in the playing. Although we are not able to compass the performance
within the prescribed "two short hours," for we show a greater respect for the preservation
of the text than did Shakespeare himself, an attempt will be made to confine the absolute spoken
words as nearly as possible within the time prescribed in the prologue.

In the dramatic presentation of the play, there are many passages of intensely moving interest,
the action and characters are drawn with a remarkable fidelity to the actualities. As has been
suggested, however, the play depends more largely than do most of Shakespeare's works on those
outward displays which an attempt will be made to realize on the stage.

Shakespeare as Stage Manager

That Shakespeare, as a stage-manager, availed himself as far as possible of these adjuncts
is only too evident from the fact that it was the firing off the cannon which caused a conflagration
and the consequent burning down of the Globe Theatre. The destruction of the manuscripts of
Shakespeare's plays was probably due to this calamity. The incident shows a lamentable love
of stage-mounting for which some of the critics of the time no doubt took the poet severely
to task. In connection with the love of pageantry which then prevailed, it is well known that
Shakespeare and Ben Jonson were wont to arrange the Masques which were so much in vogue in
their time.

The Fire

The Globe Theatre was burnt on June 29th, 1613. Thomas Lorkins, in a letter to Sir Thomas Puckering
on June 30th, says: "No longer since than yesterday, while Bourbidge his companie were acting
at ye Globe the play of Henry 8, and there shooting of certayne chambers in way of triumph;
the fire catch and fastened upon the thatch of ye house and there burned so furiously as it
consumed ye whole house all in lesse than two hours, the people having enough to doe to save
themselves."

Other Productions of the Play

There are records of many other productions of Henry VIII. existing. In 1663 it was produced
at Lincoln's Inn Fields as a pageant play. The redoubtable Mr. Pepys visited this production,
without appearing to have enjoyed the play. In contrast to him, old Dr. Johnson said that whenever
Mrs. Siddons played the part of Katharine, he would "hobble to the theatre to see her."

In 1707, Henry VIII. was produced at the Haymarket, with an exceptionally strong cast; in 1722
it was done at Drury Lane, in which production Booth played Henry VIII.

In 1727 it was again played at Drury Lane. On this occasion the spectacle of the Coronation
of Anne Boleyn was added, on which one scene, we are told, £1,000 had been expended. It will
come to many as a surprise that so much splendour and so large an expenditure of money were
at that time lavished on the stage. The play had an exceptional run of forty nights, largely
owing, it is said, to the popularity it obtained through the Coronation of George II., which
had taken place a few weeks before.

The play was a great favourite of George II. and was in consequence frequently revived during
his reign. On being asked by a grave nobleman, after a performance at Hampton Court, how the
King liked it, Sir Richard Steele replied: "So terribly well, my lord, that I was afraid I
should have lost all my actors, for I was not sure the King would not keep them to fill the
posts at Court that he saw them so fit for in the play."

In 1744, Henry VIII. was given for the first time at Covent Garden, but was not revived until
1772, when it was announced at Covent Garden as "'Henry VIII.,' not acted for 20 years." The
Coronation was again introduced.

Queen Katharine was one of Mrs. Siddons' great parts. She made her first appearance in this
character at Drury Lane in 1788. In 1808 it was again revived, and Mrs. Siddons once more played
the Queen, Kemble appearing as Wolsey.

In 1822, Edmund Kean made his first appearance as Wolsey at Drury Lane, but the play was only
given four times.

In 1832, the play was revived at Covent Garden with extraordinary splendour, and a magnificent
cast. Charles Kemble played King Henry; Mr. Young, Wolsey; Miss Ellen Tree, Anne Boleyn; and
Miss Fanny Kemble appeared for the first time as Queen Katharine. Her success seems to have
been great. We are told that Miss Ellen Tree, as Anne Boleyn, appeared to great disadvantage;
"her headdress was the most frightful and unbecoming thing imaginable, though we believe it
was taken from one of Holbein's." In those days correctness of costume was considered most
lamentable and most laughable. In this production, too, the Coronation was substituted for
the procession. The criticism adds that "during the progress of the play the public seized
every opportunity of showing their dislike of the Bishops, and the moment they came on the
stage they were assailed with hissing and hooting, and one of the prelates, in his haste to
escape from such a reception, fell prostrate, which excited bursts of merriment from all parts
of the house."

In 1855, Charles Kean revived the play with his accustomed care and sumptuousness. In this
famous revival Mrs. Kean appeared as "Queen Katharine."

Irving's Production

Sir Henry Irving's magnificent production will still be fresh in the memory of many playgoers.
It was admitted on all hands to be an artistic achievement of the highest kind, and Sir Henry
Irving was richly rewarded by the support of the public, the play running 203 nights. Miss
Ellen Terry greatly distinguished herself in the part of Queen Katharine, contributing in no
small degree to the success of the production. Sir Henry Irving, in the part of Wolsey, made
a deep impression. Mr. William Terriss played the King. Mr. Forbes Robertson made a memorable
success in the part of Buckingham; and it is interesting to note that Miss Violet Vanbrugh
played the part of Anne Boleyn.

The Music

An outstanding feature of the Lyceum production was Edward German's music. I deem myself fortunate
that this music was available for the present production. It may be mentioned that Mr. German
has composed some additional numbers, amongst which is the Anthem sung in the Coronation of
Anne Boleyn.

Shakespeare's Accuracy of Detail

I cannot help quoting one passage from Cavendish at length to show how closely Shakespeare
keeps to the chronicles of his time. It will be found that Scene 3 of Act I. is practically
identical with the following description:--

     The banquets were set forth, with masks and mummeries, in so gorgeous
     a sort, and costly manner, that it was a heaven to behold.

     ... I have seen the king suddenly come in thither in a mask, with a
     dozen of other maskers, all in garments like shepherds.

     ... And at his coming and before he came into the hall, ye shall
     understand that he came by water to the water gate, without any
     noise; where, against his coming, were laid charged many chambers,
     and at his landing they were all shot off, which made such a rumble
     in the air, that it was like thunder. It made all the noblemen,
     ladies and gentlewomen to muse what it should mean coming so
     suddenly, they sitting quietly at a solemn banquet. Then immediately
     after this great shot of guns, the cardinal desired the Lord
     Chamberlain, and Comptroller, to look what this sudden shot should
     mean, as though he knew nothing of the matter. They thereupon looking
     out of the windows into Thames, returned again, and showed him, that
     it seemed to them there should be some noblemen and strangers arrived
     at his bridge, as ambassadors from some foreign prince. With that,
     quoth the Cardinal, "I shall desire you, because ye can speak French,
     to take the pains to go down into the hall to encounter and to
     receive them, according to their estates, and to conduct them into
     this chamber, where they shall see us, and all these noble personages
     sitting merrily at our banquet, desiring them to sit down with us and
     to take part of our fare and pastime." Then they went incontinent
     down into the hall, where they received them with twenty new torches,
     and conveyed them up into the chamber, with such a number of drums
     and fifes as I have seldom seen together, at one time in any masque.
     At their arrival into the chamber, two and two together, they went
     directly before the cardinal where he sat, saluting him very
     reverently, to whom the Lord Chamberlain for them said: "Sir,
     forasmuch as they be strangers, and can speak no English, they have
     desired me to declare unto your Grace thus: they, having
     understanding of this your triumphant banquet, where was assembled
     such a number of excellent fair dames, could do no less, under the
     supportation of your good grace, but to repair hither to view as well
     their incomparable beauty, as for to accompany them to mumchance, and
     then after to dance with them, and so to have of them acquaintance.
     And, sir, they furthermore require of your Grace licence to
     accomplish the cause of their repair." To whom the Cardinal answered,
     that he was very well contented they should do so. Then the masquers
     went first and saluted all the dames as they sat, and then returned
     to the most worthiest.

     ... Then quoth the Cardinal to my Lord Chamberlain, "I pray you,"
     quoth he, "show them that it seemeth me that there should be among
     them some noble man, whom I suppose to be much more worthy of honour
     to sit and occupy this room and place than I; to whom I would most
     gladly, if I knew him, surrender my place according to my duty." Then
     spake my Lord Chamberlain, unto them in French, declaring my Lord
     Cardinal's mind, and they rounding him again in the ear, my Lord
     Chamberlain said to my Lord Cardinal, "Sir, they confess," quoth he,
     "that among them there is such a noble personage, whom, if your Grace
     can appoint him from the other, he is contented to disclose himself,
     and to accept your place most worthily." With that the cardinal,
     taking a good advisement among them, at the last, quoth he, "Me
     seemeth the gentleman with the black beard should be even he." And
     with that he arose out of his chair, and offered the same to the
     gentleman in the black beard, with his cap in his hand. The person to
     whom he offered then his chair was Sir Edward Neville, a comely
     knight of goodly personage, that much more resembled the king's
     person in that mask, than any other. The king, hearing and perceiving
     the cardinal so deceived in his estimation and choice, could not
     forbear laughing; but plucked down his visor, and Master Neville's
     also, and dashed out with such a pleasant countenance and cheer, that
     all noble estates there assembled, seeing the king to be there
     amongst them, rejoiced very much.

If Shakespeare could be so true to the actualities, why should not we seek to realise the scene
so vividly described by the chronicler and the dramatist?

In my notes and conclusions on "Henry VIII. and his Court," I have been largely indebted to
the guidance of the following books:--

Ernest Law's "History of Hampton Court"; Strickland's "Queens of England"; Taunton's "Thomas
Wolsey, Legate and Reformer"; and Cavendish's "Life of Wolsey."

AN APOLOGY AND A FOOTNOTE

Here I am tempted to hark back to the modern manner of producing Shakespeare, and to say a
few words in extenuation of those methods, which have been assailed in a recent article with
almost equal brilliancy and vehemence.

The writer tells us that there are two different kinds of plays, the realistic and the symbolic.
Shakespeare's plays, we are assured, belong to the latter category. "The scenery," it is insisted,
"not only may, but should be imperfect." This seems an extraordinary doctrine, for if it be
right that a play should be imperfectly mounted, it follows that it should be imperfectly acted,
and further that it should be imperfectly written. The modern methods, we are assured, employed
in the production of Shakespeare, do not properly illustrate the play, but are merely made
for vulgar display, with the result of crushing the author and obscuring his meaning. In this
assertion, I venture to think that our critic is mistaken; I claim that not the least important
mission of the modern theatre is to give to the public representations of history which shall
be at once an education and a delight. To do this, the manager should avail himself of the
best archæological and artistic help his generation can afford him, while endeavouring to preserve
what he believes to be the spirit and the intention of the author.

It is of course possible for the technically informed reader to imagine the wonderful and stirring
scenes which form part of the play without visualizing them. It is, I contend, better to reserve
Shakespeare for the study than to see him presented half-heartedly.

The merely archaic presentation of the play can be of interest only to those epicures who do
not pay their shilling to enter the theatre. The contemporary theatre must make its appeal
to the great public, and I hold that while one should respect every form of art, that art which
appeals only to a coterie is on a lower plane than that which speaks to the world. Surely,
it is not too much to claim that a truer and more vivid impression of a period of history can
be given by its representation on the stage than by any other means of information. Though
the archæologist with symbolic leanings may cry out, the theatre is primarily for those who
love the drama, who love the joy of life and the true presentation of history. It is only secondarily
for those who fulfil their souls in footnotes.[6]

I hold that whatever may tend to destroy the illusion and the people's understanding is to
be condemned. Whatever may tend to heighten the illusion and to help the audience to a better
understanding of the play and the author's meaning, is to be commended. Shakespeare and Burbage,
Betterton, Colley Cibber, the Kembles, the Keans, Phelps, Calvert and Henry Irving, as artists,
recognised that there was but one way to treat the play of Henry VIII. It is pleasant to sin
in such good company.

