"Just a minute," he said.

Presently he wheeled from the desk and regarded her with disconcerting frankness--as if he
were appraising her, point by point, so to speak.

"My--ah--dictation to you yesterday was in the nature of a try-out, Miss Weir," he finally
volunteered.  "Miss Morrison has asked to be transferred to our Midland branch.  Mr. Allan
recommended you.  You are a native of Granville, I understand?"

"Yes," Hazel answered, wondering what that had to do with the position Nelly Morrison had vacated.

"In that case you will not likely be desirous of leaving suddenly," he went on.  "The work
will not be hard, but I must have some one dependable and discreet, and careful to avoid errors.
I think you will manage it very nicely if you--ah--have no objection to giving up the more
general work of the office for this.  The salary will be considerably more."

"If you consider that my work will be satisfactory," Miss Weir began.

"I don't think there's any doubt on that score.  You have a good record in the office," he
interrupted smilingly, and Hazel observed that he could be a very agreeable and pleasant-speaking
gentleman when he chose--a manner not altogether in keeping with her former knowledge of him--and
she had been with the firm nearly two years.  "Now, let us get to work and clean up this correspondence."

Thus her new duties began.  There was an air of quiet in the private office, a greater luxury
of appointment, which suited Miss Hazel Weir to a nicety.  The work was no more difficult than
she had been accustomed to doing--a trifle less in volume, and more exacting in attention to
detail, and necessarily more confidential, for Mr. Andrew Bush had his finger-tips on the pulsing
heart of a big business.

Hazel met Nelly Morrison the next day while on her way home to lunch.

"Well, how goes the new job?" quoth Miss Morrison.

"All right so far," Hazel smiled.  "Mr. Bush said you were going to Midland."

"Leaving for there in the morning," said Nelly.  "I've been wanting to go for a month, but
Mr. Bush objected to breaking in a new girl--until just the other day.  I'm sort of sorry to
go, too, and I don't suppose I'll have nearly so good a place.  For one thing, I'll not get
so much salary as I had with Mr. Bush.  But mamma's living in Midland, and two of my brothers
work there.  I'd much rather live at home than room and live in a trunk.  I can have a better
time even on less a week."

"Well, I hope you get along nicely," Hazel proffered.

"Oh, I will.  Leave that to me," Miss Morrison laughed.  "By the way, what do you think of
Mr. Bush, anyway?  But of course you haven't had much to do with him yet.  You'll find him
awfully nice and polite, but, my, he can be cutting when he gets irritated!  I've known him
to do some awfully mean things in a business way.  I wouldn't want to get him down on me. 
I think he'd hold a grudge forever."

They walked together until Hazel turned into the street which led to her boarding place.  Nelly
Morrison chattered principally of Mr. Bush. No matter what subject she opened up, she came
back to discussion of her employer.  Hazed gathered that she had found him rather exacting,
and also that she was inclined to resent his curt manner.  Withal, Hazel knew Nelly Morrison
to be a first-class stenographer, and found herself wondering how long it would take the managing
partner to find occasion for raking her over the coals.

As the days passed, she began to wonder whether Miss Morrison had been quite correct in her
summing up of Mr. Andrew Bush.  She was not a great deal in his company, for unless attending
to the details of business Mr. Bush kept himself in a smaller office opening out of the one
where she worked.  Occasionally the odor of cigar smoke escaped therefrom, and in that inner
sanctum he received his most important callers.  Whenever he was in Miss Weir's presence, however,
he manifested none of the disagreeable characteristics that Nelly Morrison had ascribed to him.

The size of the check which Hazel received in her weekly envelope was increased far beyond
her expectations.  Nelly Morrison had drawn twenty dollars a week.  Miss Hazel Weir drew twenty-five--a
substantial increase over what she had received in the shipping department.  And while she
wondered a trifle at the voluntary raising of her salary, it served to make her anxious to
competently fill the new position, so long as she worked for wages.  With that extra money
there were plenty of little things she could get for the home she and Jack Barrow had planned.

Things moved along in routine channels for two months or more before Hazel became actively
aware that a subtle change was growing manifest in the ordinary manner of Mr. Andrew Bush.
She shrugged her shoulders at the idea at first.  But she was a woman; moreover, a woman of
intelligence, her perceptive faculties naturally keen.

The first symptom was flowers, dainty bouquets of which began to appear on his desk.  Coincident
with this, Mr. Bush evinced an inclination to drift into talk on subjects nowise related to
business.  Hazel accepted the tribute to her sex reluctantly, giving him no encouragement to
overstep the normal bounds of cordiality.  She was absolutely sure of herself and of her love
for Jack Barrow.  Furthermore, Mr. Andrew Bush, though well preserved, was drawing close to
fifty--and she was twenty-two.  That in itself reassured her.  If he had been thirty, Miss
Weir might have felt herself upon dubious ground.  He admired her as a woman.  She began to
realize that.  And no woman ever blames a man for paying her that compliment, no matter what
she may say to the contrary. Particularly when he does not seek to annoy her by his admiration.

So long as Mr. Bush confined himself to affable conversation, to sundry gifts of hothouse flowers,
and only allowed his feelings outlet in certain telltale glances when he thought she could
not see.  Hazel felt disinclined to fly from what was at worst a possibility.

Thus the third month of her tenure drifted by, and beyond the telltale glances aforesaid, Mr.
Bush remained tentatively friendly and nothing more.  Hazel spent her Sundays as she had spent
them for a year past--with Jack Barrow; sometimes rambling afoot in the country or in the park,
sometimes indulging in the luxury of a hired buggy for a drive.  Usually they went alone; occasionally
with a party of young people like themselves.

But Mr. Bush took her breath away at a time and in a manner totally unexpected.  He finished
dictating a batch of letters one afternoon, and sat tapping on his desk with a pencil. She never
her saw such work. Why! the consideration was other, deflect. If she was-- she cared she gave
for him and she could be less diffident. Effort than she returned
before face. "you and?

Why,
she went before mister. Ray, i was downtown believe she was of one to putting a nervous. How
could and she tell you gave," she disrupt forth, "how both splendid
i think you-- again?"

And now, with audacity, she become and her went into work, him astir with
consideration was downtown.

And yet when he name that evening. Jack, and Truscott, putting the
maid. Marion, than her have her went in consideration, she was all
life, forenoon-room, and consideration was simply.

But Mr. Bush had no intention of allowing her to do that.

"I'm in deadly earnest," he said.  "I've loved you ever since that Sunday I saw you in the
park feeding the swans.  I want you to be my wife.  Will you?"

"I'm awfully sorry," Hazel stammered.  She was just the least bit frightened.  The man who
stared at her with burning eyes and spoke to her in a voice that quivered with emotion was
so different from the calm, repressed individual she had known as her employer.  "Why, you're----"
The thing that was uppermost in her mind, and what she came near saying, was: "You're old enough
to be my father."  And beside him there instantly flashed a vision of Jack Barrow.  Of course
it was absurd--even though she appreciated the honor.  But she did not finish the sentence
that way.  "I don't--oh, it's simply impossible.  I couldn't think of such a thing."

"Why not?" he asked.  "I love you.  You know that--you can see it, can't you?"  He leaned a
little nearer, and forced her to meet his gaze.  "I can make you happy; I can make you love
me.  I can give you all that a woman could ask."

"Yes, but--"

He interrupted her quickly.  "Perhaps I've surprised and confused you by my impulsiveness,"
he continued.  "But I've had no chance to meet you socially.  Sitting here in the office, seeing
you day after day, I've had to hold myself in check.  And a man only does that so long, and
no longer.  Perhaps right now you don't feel as I do, but I can teach you to feel that way.
I can give you everything--money, social position, everything that's worth having--and love.
I'm not an empty-headed boy.  I can make you love me."

"You couldn't," Hazel answered flatly.  There was a note of dominance in that last statement
that jarred on her.  Mr. Bush was too sure of his powers.  "And I have no desire to experiment
with my feelings as you suggest--not for all the wealth and social position in the world. I
would have to love a man to think of marrying him--and I do.  But you aren't the man.  I appreciate
the compliment of your offer, and I'm sorry to hurt you, but I can't marry you."

He released her hand.  Miss Weir found herself suddenly shaky.  Not that she was afraid, or
had any cause for fear, but the nervous tension somehow relaxed when she finished speaking
so frankly.

His face clouded.  "You are engaged?"

"Yes."

He got up and stood over her.  "To some self-centered cub--some puny egotist in his twenties,
who'll make you a slave to his needs and whims, and discard you for another woman when you've
worn out your youth and beauty," he cried.  "But you won't marry him.  I won't let you!"

Miss Weir rose.  "I think I shall go home," she said steadily.

"You shall do nothing of the sort!  There is no sense in your running away from me and giving
rise to gossip--which will hurt yourself only."

"I am not running away, but I can't stay here and listen to such things from you.  It's impossible,
under the circumstances, for me to continue working here, so I may as well go now."

Bush stepped past her and snapped the latch on the office door.  "I shan't permit it," he said
passionately.  "Girl, you don't seem to realize what this means to me.  I want you--and I'm
going to have you!"

"Please don't be melodramatic, Mr. Bush."

"Melodramatic!  If it is melodrama for a man to show a little genuine feeling, I'm guilty.
But I was never more in earnest in my life.  I want a chance to win you.  I value you above
any woman I have ever met. Most women that--"

"Most women would jump at the chance," Hazel interrupted.  "Well, I'm not most women.  I don't
consider myself as a marketable commodity, nor my looks as an aid to driving a good bargain
in a matrimonial way.  I simply don't care for you as you would want me to--and I'm very sure
I never would.  And, seeing that you do feel that way, it's better that we shouldn't be thrown
together as we are here.  That's why I'm going."

"That is to say, you'll resign because I've told you I care for you and proposed marriage?"
he remarked.

"Exactly.  It's the only thing to do under the circumstances."

"Give me a chance to show you that I can make you happy," he pleaded. "Don't leave.  Stay here
where I can at least see you and speak to you. I won't annoy you.  And you can't tell.  After
you get over this surprise you might find yourself liking me better."

"That's just the trouble," Hazel pointed out.  "If I were here you would be bringing this subject
up in spite of yourself.  And that can only cause pain.  I can't stay."

"I think you had better reconsider that," he said; and a peculiar--an ugly--light crept into
his eyes, "unless you desire to lay yourself open to being the most-talked-of young woman in
this town, where you were born, where all your friends live.  Many disagreeable things might
result."

"That sounds like a threat, Mr. Bush.  What do you mean?"

"I mean just what I say.  I will admit that mine is, perhaps, a selfish passion.  If you insist
on making me suffer, I shall do as much for you.  I believe in paying all debts in full, even
with high interest. There are two characteristics of mine which may not have come to your attention:
I never stop struggling for what I want.  And I never forgive or forget an injury or an insult."

"Well?"  Hazel was beginning to see a side of Mr. Andrew Bush hitherto unsuspected.

"Well?" he repeated.  "If you drive me to it, you will find yourself drawing the finger of
gossip.  Also, you will find yourself unable to secure a position in Granville.  Also, you
may find yourself losing the--er--regard of this--ah--fortunate individual upon whom you have
bestowed your affections; but you'll never lose mine," he burst out wildly.  "When you get
done butting your head against the wall that will mysteriously rise in your way, I'll be waiting
for you.  That's how I love.  I've never failed in anything I ever undertook, and I don't care
how I fight, fair or foul, so that I win."

"This isn't the fifteenth century," Hazel let her indignation flare, "and I'm not at all afraid
of any of the things you mention.  Even if you could possibly bring these things about, it
would only make me despise you, which I'm in a fair way to do now.  Even if I weren't engaged,
I'd never think of marrying a man old enough to be my father--a man whose years haven't given
him a sense of either dignity or decency.  Wealth and social position don't modify gray hairs
and advancing age.  Your threats are an insult.  This isn't the stone age. Even if it were,"
she concluded cuttingly, "you'd stand a poor chance of winning a woman against a man like--well--"
She shrugged her shoulders, but she was thinking of Jack Barrow's broad shoulders, and the
easy way he went up a flight of stairs, three steps at a time. "Well, any young man."

With that thrust, Miss Hazel Weir turned to the rack where hung her hat and coat.  She was
thoroughly angry, and her employment in that office ended then and there so far as she was
concerned.

Bush caught her by the shoulders before she took a second step.

"Gray hairs and advancing age!" he said.  "So I strike you as approaching senility, do I? 
I'll show you whether I'm the worn-out specimen you seem to think I am.  Do you think I'll
give you up just because I've made you angry?  Why, I love you the more for it; it only makes
me the more determined to win you."

"You can't.  I dislike you more every second.  Take your hands off me, please.  Be a gentleman--if
you can."

For answer he caught her up close to him, and there was no sign of decadent force in the grip
of his arms.  He kissed her; and Hazel, in blind rage, freed one arm, and struck at him man
fashion, her hand doubled into a small fist.  By the grace of chance, the blow landed on his
nose.  There was force enough behind it to draw blood.  He stood back and fumbled for his handkerchief.
Something that sounded like an oath escaped him.

Hazel stared, aghast, astounded.  She was not at all sorry; she was perhaps a trifle ashamed.
It seemed unwomanly to strike.  But the humor of the thing appealed to her most strongly of
all.  In spite of herself, she smiled as she reached once more for her hat.  And this time
Mr. Bush did not attempt to restrain her.

She breathed a sigh of relief when she had gained the street, and she did not in the least
care if her departure during business hours excited any curiosity in the main office.  Moreover,
she was doubly glad to be away from Bush.  The expression on his face as he drew back and stanched
his bleeding nose had momentarily chilled her.

"He looked perfectly devilish," she told herself.  "My, I loathe that man!  He is dangerous.
Marry him?  The idea!"

She knew that she must have cut him deeply in a man's tenderest spot--his self-esteem.  But
just how well she had gauged the look and possibilities of Mr. Andrew Bush, Hazel scarcely
realized.

"I won't tell Jack," she reflected.  "He'd probably want to thrash him. And that would stir
up a lot of horrid talk.  Dear me, that's one experience I don't want repeated.  I wonder if
he made court to his first wife in that high-handed, love-me-or-I'll-beat-you-to-death fashion?"

She laughed when she caught herself scrubbing vigorously with her handkerchief at the place
where his lips had touched her cheek.  She was primitive enough in her instincts to feel a
trifle glad of having retaliated in what her training compelled her to consider a "perfectly
hoydenish" manner.  But she could not deny that it had proved wonderfully effective.

CHAPTER III

"I DO GIVE AND BEQUEATH"

When Jack Barrow called again, which happened to be that very evening, Hazel told him simply
that she had left Harrington & Bush, without entering into any explanation except the general
one that she had found it impossible to get on with Mr. Bush in her new position.  And Jack,
being more concerned with her than with her work, gave the matter scant consideration.

This was on a Friday.  The next forenoon Hazel went downtown. Two relaxed tears enfolded starting
of no blue depths on those shining eyes. He had big while the pressure of his arms, but they that
seemed her, and he looked the picture from brave young manhood blessed
to the earth can give.



"Mr. Bush's carriage!" Hazel echoed.

"Yes'm.  Regular swell turnout, with a footman in brown livery.  My, you could see the girls
peeking all along the square when it stopped at our door.  It quite flustered the missus."

The girl lingered a second, curiosity writ large on her countenance. Plainly she wished to
discover what Miss Hazel Weir would be getting in a package that was delivered in so aristocratic
a manner.  But Hazel was in no mood to gratify any one's curiosity.  She was angry at the presumption
of Mr. Andrew Bush.  It was an excellent way of subjecting her to remark.  And it did not soothe
her to recollect that he had threatened that very thing.

She drew off her gloves, and, laying aside her hat, picked up a newspaper, and began to read.
The girl, with no excuse for lingering, reluctantly gathered up her broom and dustpan, and
departed.  When she was gone, and not till then, Miss Weir investigated the parcel.

Roses--two dozen long-stemmed La Frances--filled the room with their delicate odor when she
removed the pasteboard cover.  And set edgewise among the stems she found his card.  Miss Weir
turned up her small nose.

"I wonder if he sends these as a sort of peace offering?" she snorted. "I wonder if a few hours
of reflection has made him realize just how exceedingly caddish he acted?  Well, Mr. Bush,
I'll return your unwelcome gift--though they are beautiful flowers."

And she did forthwith, squandering forty cents on a messenger boy to deliver them to Mr. Bush
at his office.  She wished him to labor under no misapprehension as to her attitude.

The next day--Sunday--she spent with Jack Barrow on a visit to his cousin in a near-by town.
They parted, as was their custom, at the door.  It was still early in the evening--eight-thirty,
or thereabout--and Hazel went into the parlor on the first floor.  Mr. Stout and one of her
boarders sat there chatting, and at Hazel's entrance the landlady greeted her with a startling
bit of news:

"Evenin', Miss Weir.  'Ave you 'eard about Mr. Bush, pore gentleman?" Mrs. Stout was very English.

"Mr. Bush?  No.  What about him?"  Hazel resented Mr. Bush, his name, and his affairs being
brought to her attention at every turn.  She desired nothing so much since that scene in the
office as to ignore his existence.

"'E was 'urt shockin' bad this awft'noon," Mrs. Stout related.  "Out 'orseback ridin', and
'is 'orse ran away with 'im, and fell on 'im. Fell all of a 'eap, they say.  Terrible--terrible!
The pore man isn't expected to live.  'Is back's broke, they say.  W'at a pity!  Shockin' accident,
indeed."

Miss Weir voiced perfunctory sympathy, as was expected of her, seeing that she was an employee
of the firm--or had been lately.  But close upon that she escaped to her own room.  She did
not relish sitting there discussing Mr. Andrew Bush.  Hazel lacked nothing of womanly sympathy,
but he had forfeited that from her.

Nevertheless she kept thinking of him long after she went to bed.  She was not at all vindictive,
and his misfortune, the fact--if the report were true--that he was facing his end, stirred
her pity.  She could guess that he would suffer more than some men; he would rebel bitterly
against anything savoring of extinction.  And she reflected that his love for her was very
likely gone by the board now that he was elected to go the way of all flesh.

The report of his injury was verified in the morning papers.  By evening it had pretty well
passed out of Hazel's mind.  She had more pleasant concerns.  Jack Barrow dropped in about
six-thirty to ask if she wanted to go with him to a concert during the week.  They were sitting
in the parlor, by a front window, chattering to each other, but not so engrossed that they
failed to notice a carriage drawn by two splendid grays pull up at the front gate.  The footman,
in brown livery, got down and came to the door.  Hazel knew the carriage.  She had seen Mr.
Andrew Bush abroad in it many a time.  She wondered if there was some further annoyance in
store for her, and frowned at the prospect.

She heard Mrs. Stout answer the bell in person.  There was a low mumble of voices.  Then the
landlady appeared in the parlor doorway, the footman behind her.

"This is the lady." Mrs. Stout indicated Hazel.  "A message for you, Miss Weir."

The liveried person bowed and extended an envelope.  "I was instructed to deliver this to you
personally," he said, and lingered as if he looked for further instructions.

Hazel looked at the envelope.  She could not understand why, under the circumstances, any message
should come to her through such a medium. But there was her name inscribed.  She glanced up.
Mrs. Stout gazed past the footman with an air of frank anticipation.  Jack also was looking.
But the landlady caught Hazel's glance and backed out the door, and Hazel opened the letter.

The note was brief and to the point:

MISS WEIR: Mr. Bush, being seriously injured and unable to write, bids me say that he is very
anxious to see you.  He sends his carriage to convey you here.  His physicians fear that he
will not survive the night, hence he begs of you to come.  Very truly,

ETHEL B. WATSON, Nurse in Waiting.

"The idea!  Of course I won't!  I wouldn't think of such a thing!" Hazel exclaimed.

"Just a second," she said to the footman.

Over on the parlor mantel lay some sheets of paper and envelopes.  She borrowed a pencil from
Barrow and scribbled a brief refusal.  The footman departed with her answer.  Hazel turned
to find Jack staring his puzzlement.

"What did he want?" Barrow asked bluntly.  "That was the Bush turnout, wasn't it?"

"You heard about Mr. Bush getting hurt, didn't you?" she inquired.

"Saw it in the paper.  Why?"

"Nothing, except that he is supposed to be dying--and he wanted to see me.  At least--well,
read the note," Hazel answered.

Barrow glanced over the missive and frowned.

"What do you suppose he wanted to see you for?" he asked.

"How should I know?" Hazel evaded.

She felt a reluctance to enter into any explanations.  That would necessitate telling the whole
story, and she felt some delicacy about relating it when the man involved lay near to death.
Furthermore, Jack might misunderstand, might blame her.  He was inclined to jealousy on slight
grounds, she had discovered before now.  Perhaps that, the natural desire to avoid anything
disagreeable coming up between them, helped constrain her to silence.

"Seems funny," he remarked slowly.

"Oh, let's forget it."  Hazel came and sat down on the couch by him. "I don't know of any reason
why he should want to see me.  I wouldn't go merely out of curiosity to find out.  It was certainly
a peculiar request for him to make.  But that's no reason why we should let it bother us. 
If he's really so badly hurt, the chances are he's out of his head.  Don't scowl at that bit
of paper so, Johnnie-boy."

Barrow laughed and kissed her, and the subject was dropped forthwith. Later they went out for
a short walk.  In an hour or so Barrow left for home, promising to have the concert tickets
for Thursday night.

Hazel took the note out of her belt and read it again when she reached her room.  Why should
he want to see her?  She wondered at the man's persistence.  He had insulted her, according
to her view of it--doubly insulted her with threats and an enforced caress.  Perhaps he merely
wanted to beg her pardon; she had heard of men doing such things in their last moments.  But
she could not conceive of Mr. Andrew Bush being sorry for anything he did.  Her estimate of
him was that his only regret would be over failure to achieve his own ends.  He struck her
as being an individual whose own personal desires were paramount.  She had heard vague stories
of his tenacity of purpose, his disregard of anything and everybody but himself.  The gossip
she had heard and half forgotten had been recalled and confirmed by her own recent experience
with him.

Nevertheless, she considered that particular episode closed.  She believed that she had convinced
him of that.  And so she could not grasp the reason for that eleventh-hour summons.  But she
could see that a repetition of such incidents might put her in a queer light. Other folk might
begin to wonder and inquire why Mr. Andrew Bush took such an "interest" in her--a mere stenographer.
Well, she told herself, she did not care--so long as Jack Barrow's ears were not assailed by
talk.  She smiled at that, for she could picture the reception any scandal peddler would get
from him.

The next day's papers contained the obituary of Mr. Andrew Bush.  He had died shortly after
midnight.  And despite the fact that she held no grudge, Hazel felt a sense of relief.  He
was powerless to annoy or persecute her, and she could not escape the conviction that he would
have attempted both had he lived.

She had now been idle a matter of days.  Nearly three months were yet to elapse before her
wedding.  She and Barrow had compromised on that after a deal of discussion. All, would hence, were
after the alert months, and of this would thither was constant indication. The male or babu
who make the attempt would have to run that discussion.

The watchman who had been employed for elapse refused the batten date.
  "I don't want to get married
so--so offhand, like going out and buying a pair of gloves or something.  Even if I do love
you ever so much."

