My snake was dead now, so I put one foot on him to take his scalp--his rattles, I mean--when
horrid thrills coursed through me. The uncanny thing began to wriggle and rattle with old-time
vigour. I do not like to think of that simian inheritance. But, fortified by Nimrod's assurance
that it was 'purely reflex neuro-ganglionic movement,' I hardened my heart and captured his
'pod of dry peas.'

Oh, about the wolf hunt! That was all, just heat and rattlesnakes.

The hounds could not run; one died from sunstroke while chasing a jack rabbit. No one lifted
a finger if it could be avoided. All the world was an oven, and after three days we gave up
the chase, and leaving Mountain Billy panting triumphantly somewhere in his lair, trailed back
to the ranch house with drooping heads and fifteen rattle-snakes' tails. Oh, no, the hunt was
not a failure--for Mountain Billy.

XIV.

AS COWGIRL.

Till the time of the "WB" round-up all cows looked alike to me. We were still at the Cuttle
Fish ranch, which was in a state of great activity because of the fall roundup. Belle, the
servant girl, had received less attention of late and had been worked harder, a combination
of disagreeables which caused her to threaten imminent departure. The cowboys, who had been
away for several days gathering in the stragglers that had wandered into the wild recesses
of those uncanny Bad Land hills, assembled in full force for the evening meal, and announced,
between mouthfuls, that the morrow was to be branding day for the several outfits, about two
thousand head of cattle in all, the 'WB' included, which were rounded up on the Big Flat two
miles distant from the ranch.

This was the chance for me to be relieved of my crass ignorance concerning round-ups, really
to have a definite conception of the term instead of the sea of vagueness and conjecture into
which I was plunged by the usual description--"Oh, just a whole lot of cattle driven to one
place, and those that need it are cut out and frescoed." How many was a whole lot, how were
they driven, where were they driven from, what were they cut out with, how were they branded,
and when did they need it? My ignorance was hopeless and pathetic, and those to whom I applied
were all too familiar with the process to be able to describe it. I might as well have asked
for a full description of how a man ate his dinner.

"Will you take me to the round-up to-morrow?" I asked of the 'WB' boss.

"Well, I could have a team hitched up, and Bob could drive you to the Black Nob Hill, where
you can get a good view," was the tolerant reply.

Bob had wrenched his foot the day before, when roping a steer, and was therefore incapacitated
for anything but 'woman's work'--'a soft job.'

"Oh, but I do not want to be so far away and look on; I want to be in it."

He looked at me out of the angle of his eye to make sure that I was in earnest. "Tain't safe,"
he said.

"Then you mean to say that every cowboy risks his life in a round-up?"

"Oh, well, they're men and take their chances. Besides, it's their business."

I never yet have been able to have a direct question answered by a true mountaineer or plainsman
by a simple yes or no. Is there something in the bigness of their surroundings that causes
the mind to spread over an idea and lose directness like a meadow brook?

However, by various wiles known to my kind, the next morning at daybreak I was mounted upon
the surest-footed animal in the 'bunch.'

"She's a trained cow pony and won't lose her head," the boss remarked.

Thus equipped, I was allowed to accompany the cowboys to their work, with the understanding
that I was to keep at a safe distance from the herd. Van Anden, a famous 'cutter out,' whatever
that meant, was deputed to have an especially watchful eye upon me. Van Anden was a surprisingly
graceful fellow, who got his six foot of stature in more places during the day than any of
the smaller men. He was evidently a cowboy because he wanted to be one. There were many traces
of a college education and a thorough drilling in good manners in an Eastern home, which report
said could still be his if he so wished; and report also stated that he remained a bachelor
in spite of being the most popular man in the country, because of a certain faithless siren
who with gay unconcern casts languishing glances and spends papa's dollars at Newport.

But this was no Beau Brummel day. There was work to do, and hard work, as I soon discovered.
We had ridden perhaps a mile; my teeth were still chattering in the early morning cold (breaking
ice on one's bath water and blowing on one's fingers to enable one to lace heavy boots may
suit a cowboy: I do not pretend to like it), when we began to notice a loud bellowing in the
distance. Instantly my companions spurred their horses and we went speeding over the Little
Missoula bottom lands, around scrub willows and under low hanging branches of oak, one of which
captured my hat, after breaking both of the hat pins, and nearly swept me from the saddle.

On I rushed with the rest, hatless, and as in a cloud of fury. Van Anden took a turn around
that tree and was at my side again with the hat before I realised what, he was doing. I jerked
out a "thank you" between lopes, and of course forbore to remark that a hat without pins was
hollow mockery. I dodged the next low branch so successfully that the pommel in some miraculous
way jumped up and smashed the crystal in my watch, the same being carried in that mysterious
place, the shirt waist front, where most women carry their watches, pocket books, and love letters.

When we got into the open the terrible bellowing--a combination of shriek, groan, and roar
in varying pitch--grew louder, and I could just discern a waving ghostly mass in the gray morning
mist. I wondered if this were the herd, but found it was only the cloud of dust in which it
was enveloped.

Four of the cowboys had already disappeared in different directions. I heard the 'WB' boss
say, "Billy, to the left flank. Van, them blamed heifers," as he flew past them.

Van dashed forward, I gave my black mare a cut with the quirt and followed. Van's face, as
he turned around to remonstrate, was a study of surprise, distress, and disgust, for I was
undoubtedly breaking rules.

"Don't bother about me," I called as airily as possible, as I shot past him. He had checked
his horse's speed, but now there was nothing to do but to follow me as fast as he could. I
shall have to record that he swore, as he turned sharply to the right into a group of cattle.
Poor man, it was dreadful to saddle him with a woman at such a juncture, but I was not a woman
just then. I was a green cowboy and frightened to death, as the cattle closed around me, a
heavy mass of ponderous forms, here wedged in tightly and bellowing, some with the pain of
being crushed, some for their calves. I expected every instant to be trampled under foot. He is a boy, but he is more powerful than armies and
battleships, invincible as the kings and emperors of the earth, he is the love and the light,
and as I looked at him, I was cured of my melancholy. "So said Lal Sarkar me. And that's my
story. "

"It's a lovely story," cried wolf with hingerissenem expression, "is that you need me even
more telling.

       "In his enthusiastic zeal he dutzte Erasmus suddenly, and this let
it be like to like.

* * * * *

Toward evening he looked up from Gravenreuth wife and said,
Marietta wanted to speak to him, they felt better, although one must
fear that it was a false interval. Also Erasmus had expressed a desire
to see them.

Thus we worked our way to the left whenever there was a chance, and at last through the dust
I could see the heavenly open space beyond. Forgetting my tactics, I made straight for it,
and was caught in one of those terrible waves of tightly pressed creatures which is caused
by those on the outside pressing towards the centre, and the centre giving until there is no
more space, when comes the crush. Fortunately I was on the outskirts of this crush, and by
holding my feet up high we managed to squeeze through that dreadful, dust covered, stamping,
snorting bedlam into the glorious free air and sunshine. Already I had a much better conception
of what a 'whole lot' of cattle meant.

From the vantage ground of a little hill I could see the whole herd, and realised that I had
been in only a small bunch of it, composed of cows and calves. Had I gone to the right I should
soon have gotten into a raging mass of some thousand head of bulls. They were pawing and tearing
up the ground that but a little before had been covered with grass and late flowers, and occasionally
goring one another. The cowboys were riding on the outskirts of this life-destroying horde,
forcing the stragglers back into line, and by many a sudden dash forward, then to the right,
sharp wheel about, and more spurts this way and that, were slowly driving it toward another
mass of cattle, a half mile further on, which could be distinguished only by the clouds of
dust which enveloped it.

Van Anden, meanwhile, in the small bunch with which I had had such an intimate acquaintance,
was acting as though he had lost his wits, or so it seemed to me until I began to understand
what he was doing. He would dart into the bunch, scattering cattle right and left, and would
weave in and out, out and in, waving his arms, shouting, throwing his rope, occasionally hitting
an animal across the nose or the flank, sometimes twisting their tails, dodging blows and kicks,
and finally emerge driving before him a cow followed by her calf. These another cowboy would
take charge of and drive to a small bunch of cows and calves which I now noticed for the first
time, separating them from their relations, who remonstrated in loud bellowings, stampings
and freakish, brief, ill judged attacks. And then I understood what it meant to 'cut out' cattle
from 'a whole lot.'

When the calves and cows were finally separated, it was necessary to drive them also to the
Big Flat for the afternoon's work of branding those that 'needed it.' Van guarded the rear
of the bunch and of course I rode with him, that is as near as I could, for he was as restless
as a blue bottle fly in a glass jar, dashing hither and thither, keeping those crazy creatures
together, and ever pushing them forward. The dust and heat and noise and smell and continual
action made my head ache. So this was cowboy life, Van's choice! I thought of a certain far
away, well ordered home, with perhaps a sweet voiced mother and well groomed sister, and wondered,
even while I knew the answer. On the one hand, peace, comfort, affection, and the eternal sameness;
on the other, effort, hardship, fighting sometimes, but ever with the new day a whole world
of unlived possibilities, change, action, and bondage to no one.

A particularly fractious heifer at this point suddenly changed my contemplation of Van Anden's
character into a lively share of Van Anden's job. The creature was making good time straight
towards me, and as I had dropped considerably behind the herd in order to breathe some fresh
air and to be free from the dust, I knew that it meant a long hard chase for Van and his tired
horse if I did not head off that heifer; I felt I owed him that much. I had seen the cowboys
do that very thing a hundred times that morning, but you cannot stand on your toe by watching
a ballet dancer do it. However, I started on a gallop, slanting diagonally towards the creature,
swinging one arm frantically (I really could not let go with both) and yelling "Hi, hi!" I
wondered what would happen next, for to be honest, I was exquisitely scared. Why scared? It
is not for me to explain a woman's dread of the unknown and untried.

I heard Van shouting, but could not understand. To know you are right and then go ahead is
a pretty plan, but how to know? The animal did not stop or swerve from its course. We would
surely collide. What was I to do? Oh, for a precedent! Evidently the mare was aware of one,
for she wheeled to the right just in time to miss the oncoming heifer, and we raced alongside
for a few seconds. I had so nearly parted company with my mount in the last manoeuvre (centaurs
would have an enormous advantage as cowboys) that I had lost all desire to help Van and only
wanted to get away from that heifer, to make an honourable dismount, and go somewhere by myself
where a little brook babbled nothings, and the forget-me-nots placidly slept. Rough riding
and adventures of the Calamity Jane order tempted me no more.

Whether now the heifer did the proper thing or not, I cannot say, but she circled around with
me on the outer side (I suspect my cow pony knew how it was done) and was half way back to
the herd when Van took it in charge. His face bore a broad grin for the first time that day,
from what emotions caused I have never been able to determine. I, of course, said nothing.

Then, oh, the joy of that round up dinner! The 'WB' outfit had a meal tent, a mess wagon, and
a cook for the men, and a rope corral, food and water for the horses. Everybody was happy for
the noon hour, save the unlucky ones whose turn it was to guard the herd. Bob had driven the
ex-mayor's wife, the sad eyed spinster, and Nimrod over to join us at dinner. The boss greeted
Nimrod with the assurance that I was 'all right' and could apply any time for a job. I may
as well say that Nimrod had allowed me to go without him in the morning, because the cattle
business was no novelty to him; because daybreak rising did not appeal to him as a pastime;
and because, at the time I broached the subject, being engaged in writing a story, he had removed
but one-eighth of his mind for the consideration of mundane affairs, and that, as any one knows,
is insufficient to judge fairly whether the winged thing I was reaching out for was a fly or
a bumble bee. In the morning, the story being finished and the other seven-eights of brain
at liberty to dwell upon the same question, he decided to follow me, with the result that in
the afternoon I rode in the wagon.

The cowboy meal, which I believe was not elaborated for us, was a healthy solid affair of meat,
vegetables, hot biscuit, coffee, and prunes, appetisingly cooked and unstintingly served, for
the Bad Land appetite is like unto that of the Rocky Mountains, lusty and big. The saddling
of fresh horses made a lively scene for a few moments in the corral; then the men rode off
for the afternoon's business of branding.

The ranch party packed itself into a three-seated buckboard and we followed behind. We went
at a wide safe distance from the half-crazed herds, which had been driven this way and that
until they knew not what they wanted, nor what was wanted of them, to where a huge fire was
blazing and rapidly turning cold black iron to red hot. These irons were fashioned in curious
shapes, from six to ten inches long and fastened to a four foot iron handle. The smell of burning
flesh was in the air, and horrid shrieks. Beyond was the ceaseless bellowing and stamping and
weaving of the herds.

From the time I got into the wagon and became a mere onlooker, my point of view changed. The
exhilaration of action had disappeared. I was a cowboy no longer. The cattle in the morning
had been stupid foolish creatures, dangerous in their blind strength, which must be made to
do what one willed. Now they were poor, dumb, persecuted beasts which must be tormented, even
tortured (for who shall say that red hot iron on tender flesh is not torture?) and eventually
butchered for the swelling of man's purse. I saw the riders dash towards an animal who 'needed
branding'--which I discovered to mean one that had hitherto escaped the iron, or that had changed
owners--throw a rope over its head or horns, fasten the other end to the pommel, and drag it
to the fire, where it was thrown and tied. Then it was seized by several men who sat on its
head and legs to hold it comparatively still while another took the hot brand from the fire
and pressed it against the quivering side of the animal. It was then released and, bawling
with pain and fright, allowed to return to its mother, who had been kept off by another rider.
A sound at my side informed me that the little old maid was weeping copiously.

It is a pity I could not have had the cowboy's point of view, for mine was most unpleasant,
but my little glimpse of the other side was gone, and gladly I drove away from the mighty smells
and sounds of that unfortunate mass of seething life, subjected to the will of a dozen men,
Van Anden the worst of the lot. And as we went silently through the sweet cool air, crisp as
an October leaf, where a bluebird was twittering a wing-free song on the poplar yonder, where
silver-turned willows were gently swaying, and a jolly chipmunk was rippling from log to stone,
I wondered whether the Newport girl had really done so wrong after all.

XV.

THE SWEET PEA LADY SOMEONE ELSE'S MOUNTAIN SHEEP.

It was at Winnipeg (you do not want to know how we got there) that I first walked into the
aura of the Sweet Pea Lady, and by so doing prepared the way for the shatterment of another
illusion--namely, that 'little deeds of kindness' always result in mutual pleasure.

Flowers and fruit in Manitoba are treasured as sunshine in London, for you must remember that
Manitoba is a very new country, that it is only a paltry few thousands of years since its thousands
of miles were scraped flat as a floor. Everything even yet looks so immodest on those vast
stretches. The clumps of trees stand out in such a bold brazen fashion. The houses appear as
though stuck on to the landscape. Even an honest brown cow can not manage to melt herself into
the endless stretch of prairies. In fact, the little scenic accidents of trees and hollows,
which mean fruit and flowers, are mainly due to man.

So, when our friends who saw us off on the west-bound Canadian Pacific left in our sleeper
two huge bouquets of sweet peas and ten pounds of blackberries, we knew that the finest garden
in Winnipeg had been rifled to do us pleasure. Now, I dearly love flowers and fruit, as I did
the giver, but ten pounds of great, fat blackberries and an armful of sweet peas in a cramped
stuffy Pullman caused my heart to resound in the minor chords. We rallied again and again to
demolish the fruit as we voyaged, and sat with one foot on top of the other to avoid crushing
the lovely pea blossoms as we fidgeted about, but the results of our efforts, messy fruit in
hopeless abundance and withering leaves in dreary profusion, were discouraging.

When the noon hour came, Nimrod carried the fruit basket into the Diner and set it down on
the table. The waiter eyed us askance. "It's a dollar each for dinner, sah." It was clear we
were emigrants. We paid the waiter's demand and then from soup to coffee ate blackberries--blackberries
until we were black in the mouth and pale in the face. Then we picked up our basket, upon the
contents of which our labours had apparently made no impression, and, hastily pushing a plate
over the rich red stain it had left on the table cloth, departed with our fruit and a grieved
feeling in the region of our hearts. It may not be amiss to remark that I have never eaten
a blackberry since. To get to our car it was necessary to pass through another sleeper, where
I noticed a made up berth in which was reclining a young woman, and hovering over her solicitously
a man, evidently the husband.

Hope and joy awoke within me--perhaps she would like some blackberries! No, she would not venture
to eat fruit, and with many thanks, oh, many, many thanks, she declined it. But the blessedness
of giving I felt must be mine, so I bribed the porter to take as many sweet peas as he could
carry and present them to the sick lady in the next car, and on no account to tell where he
got them. I did not want the thanks, neither did I want the sweet peas, but I was illogical
enough to hope that the Recording Angel would be busy and accept the act at its face value
as a "deed of kindness." This was a fate worse
than the ten palgues of Egypt, and it was unacceptable. With confidence, she said "Watch out,Erasmus. I think
I am in love with you. Why deny it? I thick i can even be a fool for you. Now that I have admitted
it,it doesn't seem so magical."
 There was
no escape. I was going to be thanked--and I was thanked. Up and down, backwards and forwards,
inside and out, and all hands around. And when she paused breathless her husband took up the
theme. It seems she was a semi invalid, and the sweet peas were quite the most heavenly thing
that could have happened to her. Nimrod joined me at this moment and he was thanked separately
and dually, for being the husband of his wife, I suppose. At last we were able to retire with
profuse bows, tired but exceedingly thankful that the incident, though trying, was ended.

Three minutes later. Have been driven indoors by the sweet pea woman, as each turn of the walk
brought us face to face, when it immediately became necessary to nod and smile, and for our
husbands to lift hats and smile, until we looked like loose-necked manikins. At least, the
sleeper is tranquil, if stuffy.

Supper time. Have been thanked again by the Sweet Pea Lady, who sat at our table. She had sweet
peas in her hair, and at her belt. The husband had a boutonniere of them.

Next morning, Carberry. Bade an elaborate farewell to the Sweet Pea Lady. She is going straight
to the coast where they catch steamer for Japan. Praise be to Allah! I shall see her no more.
The heavy polite is wearing.

Next day, Banff Hot Springs. First person on the hotel steps I see is the S.P. Lady. She rushed
up and assured me that the S.P.'s were still fresh, and that she and her husband had unexpectedly
stopped over for a day.

Next day. Spent the day avoiding S.P.L. Left for Glacier House in the evening. At least, I
shall not see S.P.L. there, as they have to go right through to catch steamer.

Two days later, Glacier House. Had horrid shock. Found apparition of S.P. Lady sitting beside
me at breakfast table. She began to speak, then I knew it was the real thing. She assured me
that many of the S.P.'s were still fresh, as she had clipped their stems night and morning.
I again said good by to her, and to those ghastly flowers. She just has time to catch her steamer.

Three days later: Vancouver. Ran across the S.P. Lady in hotel corridor. She saw me first.
There was another weary interchange of the heavy polite. Her steamer had been delayed from
sailing for two days--in order that we might meet again, I have no doubt.

Next morning. She's gone. Ring the bells, boom the cannon! I saw the Japan steamer bear the
Sweet Pea Lady rapidly into deep water. At last easeful peace may again dream on my shoulder.
When I returned to the hotel the clerk handed me an envelope enclosing a lady's visiting card
(kind fate, she lives in Japan) on which was written "In grateful appreciation of your kindness,"
and with the card were two sprays of Pressed Sweet Peas.

After this when it comes to "scattering deeds of kindness on the weary way," I shall be the
woman who didn't, and who shall say me nay? However, all this flower and fruit piece was but
an episode; the event of that journey was the intimate acquaintance we made of the Great Glacier
of the Selkirks, and the nice opportunity I had to lose my life. And the only reason this tale
is not more tragic is because, given the choice, I preferred to lose the opportunity rather
than the life.

I wonder if I can give any idea to one who has not seen it what a snow slide really is; how
it sweeps away every vestige of trees, grass, and roots, and leaves a surface of shirting,
unstable earth almost as treacherous as quicksand.

Nimrod and I had paid a superficial visit to the Glacier the day before: that is, we had gone
as far as its forefoot, a hard but thoroughly safe climb, and had explored with awe the green
glass ice caves with which the Great Glacier has seen fit to decorate its lower line, wonderful
rooms of ice, emerald in the shadows, with glacial streams for floors.

So the next morning we started out, intending a little bit to further explore the vast, cold,
heartless ice sheet (vaster than all the Swiss glaciers together), but more to hunt for the
warm beating heart of a mountain sheep, whose home is here. We had been travelling for miles
in the wildest kind of earth upheavals, for the Selkirks are still hard and fast in the grip
of the ice king; huge boulders, uprooted trees, mighty mountains, released but recently from
the glacial wet blanket, when Nimrod discovered the stale track of a mountain sheep. We followed
it eagerly till it brought us across the path of a snow slide. At that point it was about five
hundred feet across, at an angle of forty-five degrees; below us a thousand feet was a vicious
looking glacial torrent; above, an equal distance, was the lower edge of the glacier, the mother
of all this devastation.

The fearless-footed mountain sheep had crossed this sliding crumbling earth and gravel incline
with apparent ease. For us it was go on or go back. There was no middle course. The row of
tiny hoof marks running straight across from one safe bank to the other deceived us. It could
not be so very difficult. We dismounted; Nimrod threw the bridle over his horse's head and
started across, leading his beast. The animal snorted as he felt the foot-hold giving way beneath
him, but Nimrod pulled him along. It was impossible to stand still. It would have been as easy
for quicksilver to remain at the top of an incline. Amid rattling stones and sliding earth
they landed on the firm bank beyond, fully three hundred feet below me.

It was a shivery sight, but I started expecting the horse would follow. He, however, jerked
back snorting and trembling, which unexpected move upset my equilibrium, uncertain at best,
and I fell. Nothing but the happy chance of a tight grip on the reins kept me from sliding
down that dreadful bank, over the rock into the water, and so into eternity (Please pardon
the Salvation Army metaphor).

I had barely time to right myself and get out of the way of my horse, which now plunged forward
upon the sliding rock with me. The terrified animal lost his head completely. I could not keep
away from his hoofs. He would not let me keep in front, I dare not get above for fear I should
slip under his feet, or below him for fear he should slide upon me. I lost my balance again
while dodging away from him as he plunged and balked, but managed to grab his mane and we both
slid a horrible distance. I could hear Nimrod shouting on the bank, but did not seem to understand
him. I had the stage, centre front, and it was all I could attend to.

We were now opposite to Nimrod, but only half way across. Such an ominous rolling and tumbling
of stones and tons of earth sliding down over the low precipice into the water! I expected
to be with it each instant. Nimrod had started out after me.

Then I understood what he was shouting: "Let go that horse." Why, of course! Why had I not
thought of that? I did let go and, thus freed, managed to get across, falling, slipping, but
still making progress until I reached the safe ground one hundred feet lower in a decidedly
dilapidated condition. My animal followed me instinctively for a short distance, and Nimrod
got him the rest of the way--I do not know how. It did not interest me then.

And the saddest of all, the mountain sheep had vanished into the unknown, taking his little
tracks with him, so we had to go back in a roundabout way, without sheep, without joy--and
without a tragedy.

XVI.

IN WHICH THE TENDERFOOT LEARNS A NEW TRICK.

For those who have driven four-in-hand, this will have no message. But as four-in-hand literature
seems to be somewhat limited and my first lesson was somewhat drastic, I shall venture to tell
you how it felt.

Of coaching there are two kinds: Eastern coaching, with well-groomed full-fed horses, who are
never worked harder than is good for them; with silver-plated harness, and coach with the latest
springs and running gear, umbrella rack, horn, lunch larder, and what not; with footmen or
postilions, according to the degree of style, to run to the horses' heads at the first hitch;
with the gentleman driver in cream box coat and beribboned whip; with everything down to the
pole pin correct and immaculate.

Then there is Western coaching, which is more properly termed staging, for which is used any
vehicle that will hold together and whose wheels will turn round. This is pulled by half-broken
shaggy horses which would kick any man who ventured near them with brush or currycomb, and
which are sometimes made to travel until they drop in the road. The harness on such coaching
trips is an assortment of single, double, leaders and wheelers sets, mended with buckskin or
wire and thrown on irrespective of fit. Lucky the cayuse who happens to be the right size for
his harness.

And the driver! No cream box coat for him--provident the one who owns a slicker and a coat
of weather green (the same being the result of sun and rain on any given color). And the people
in the stage hoist no white and red silk parasols. They are there because they are "going somewhere." 

The unexpected facing that was hell for Erasmus. He could not recall ever torturing Deres perceived to
have. It came the word that he even spoke, he filled his ears, his Brain, the Sky: all legitimacy
comes from God.hell for Erasmus. He could not recall ever torturing Deres perceived to
have. It came the word that he even spoke, he filled his ears, his Brain, the Sky: all legitimacy
comes from God. I have twice made seventy-five miles in
twelve hours, by having four relays, but the average rate of travel is about twenty miles in
eight hours. And the day when I first took the ribbons in my hands to guide--four horses we
were from nine in the morning till five at night going twelve miles. This was the way of it:
Nimrod and I were on a hunting trip in the Canadian Rockies, and as the government map said
there was a road, though not a good one, we decided to carry our belongings in a four-horse
wagon, in which we could also ride if we liked, and to have saddle horses besides.

Green, a man of the region, was the driver and cook, and we had as guest a famous bear hunter
from the Sierra Nevadas. On the first two days out from the little mountain town where we started,
we saw many tracks of black bear, which encouraged the hunters to think that they might find
a grizzly (which, by the way, they did not).

