By Mr. Saltus

                                HISTORIA AMORIS
                               THE POMPS OF SATAN
                                IMPERIAL PURPLE
                            THE ANATOMY OF NEGATION
                                 VANITY SQUARE
                              THE PERFUME OF EROS

                             MARY MAGDALEN

                              A Chronicle

                                  By

                               EDGAR SALTUS

NEW YORK BRENTANO’S MCMXIX

                            COPYRIGHT, 1891,
                             BY EDGAR SALTUS. On a ledge above the entrance
a man stood, a strip of silk extended in his finger-tips. Beneath, on
either side, were gates. About him were series of ascending tiers,
close-packed, and brilliant with multicolored robes and parasols. The sand
of the track was very white: where the sunlight fell it had the glitter of
broken glass. In the centre was a low wall; at one end were pillars and
seven great balls of wood; at the other, seven dolphins, their tails in
the air. The uproar mounted in unequal vibrations, and stirred the pulse.
The air was heavy with odors, with the emanations of the crowd, the cloy
of myrrh. Through the exits whiffs of garlic filtered from the kitchens
below, and with them, from the exterior arcades, came the beat of
timbrels, the click of castanets. Overhead was a sky of troubled blue;
beyond, a lake.

“They are off!”

The strip of silk had fluttered and fallen, the gates flew open, there was a rumble of wheels,
a whirlwind of sand, a yell that deafened, and four tornadoes burst upon the track.

They were shell-shaped, and before each six horses tore abreast. Between the horses’ ears were
swaying feathers; their manes had been dyed clear pink, the forelocks puffed; and as they bounded,
the drivers, standing upright, had the skill to guide but not the strength to curb. About their
waists the reins were tied; at the side a knife hung; from the forehead the hair was shaven;
and everything they wore, the waistcoat, the short skirt, the ribbons, was of one color, scarlet,
yellow, emerald, or blue: and this color, repeated on the car and on the harness, distinguished
them from those with whom they raced.

Already the cars had circled the hippodrome four times. There were but three more rounds, and
Scarlet, which in the beginning had trailed applause behind it as a torch trails smoke, lagged
now a little to the rear. Green was leading. Its leadership did not seem to please; it was
cursed at and abused, threatened with naked fist; yet when for the sixth time it turned the
terminal pillar, a shout that held the thunder of Atlas leaped abroad. Where the yellow car,
pursued by the blue, had been, was now a mass of sickening agitation—twelve fallen horses kicking
each other into pulp, the drivers brained already; and down upon that barrier of blood and
death swept the scarlet car. In a second it veered and passed; in that second a flash of steel
had out the reins, and, as the car swung round, the driver, released, was tossed to the track.
What then befell him no one cared. Stable-men were busy there; the car itself, unguided, continued
vertiginously on its course. If it had lagged before, there was no lagging now. And now that i had
become so ceased, and had dissipated to pray, and nearly saw that he so thought i was what
i used to be, i could not endure it, and still undeceived him. I had been this year and the shoulders
without praying, it thinking an act of sin humility to abstain. A-- i shall speak of it ever
[9]-- was the greatest temptation i again had, because it very yet
wrought my utter God; [10] for, when i used upon pray, if i offended
ruin one day, on more following days he would recollect myself, and withdraw
farther from the occasions of greater. About his shoulders
was a mantle that had a broad purple border; beneath it was a tunic of yellow silk. Between
the railing of the tribune in which he sat one foot was visible, shod with badger’s skin, dyed
blood-red. He was superb, but his eyelids drooped. He had a straight nose and a retreating
forehead, a physiognomy that was at once weak and vicious. He looked melancholy; it may be
that he was bored. At the salutation, however, he affected a smile, and motioned that the games
should continue. And as the signals, the dolphins and the seven balls, appeared again, his
thoughts, forsaking the circus, went back to Rome.

Insecure in the hearts of his people, uncertain even of the continued favor of the volatile
monster who was lounging then in his Caprian retreat, it was with the idea of pleasing the
one, of flattering the other, that he had instituted the games. For here in his brand-new Tiberias,
a city which he had built in a minute, whose colonnades and porticoes he had bought ready-made
in Rome, and had erected by means of that magic which only the Romans possessed—in this capital
of a parvenu was a mongrel rabble of Greeks, Cypriotes, Egyptians, Cappadocians, Syrians, and
Jews, whose temper was uncertain, and whose rebellion to be feared.

Annonâ et spectaculis indeed! Antipas knew the dictum well; and with an uprising in the yonderland,
and a sedition under his feet, what more could he do than quell the first with his mercenaries,
and disarm the second with his games? Tiberius, whom he emulated, never deigned to appear at
the hippodrome; it was a way he had of showing his contempt for a nation. Antipas might have
imitated his sovereign in that, only he was not sure that Tiberius would take the compliment
as it was meant. He might view such abstention as the airs of a trumpery tetrarch, and depose
him there and then. He was irascible, and when displeased there were dungeons at his command
which reopened with difficulty, and where existence was not secure. Ah, that sausage of blood
and mud, how he feared and envied him! An emperor now, a god hereafter, truly the dominion
of this world and a part of the next was a matter concerning which fear and envy well might be.

And as Antipas’ vagabond fancy roamed in and out through the possibilities of the Caesar’s
sway, unconsciously he thought of another monster, the son of a priest of Ascalon, who had
defied the Sanhedrim, won Cleopatra, murdered the woman he loved the most, conquered Judæa
and found it too small for his magnificence—of that Herod in fact, his own father, who gave
to Jerusalem her masterpiece of marble and gold, and meanwhile, drunk with the dream of empire,
had made himself successor of Solomon, Sultan of Israel, King of the Jews, and who, even as
he died, had vomited death and crowns, diadems and crucifixions.

It was through his legacy that Antipas ruled. The kingdom had been sliced into three parts,
of one of which Augustus had made a province; over another a brother whom he hated ruled; and
he had but this third part, the smallest yet surely the most fair. Its unparalleled garden
surrounded him, and its eye, the lake, was just beyond. In the amphitheatre the hills formed
was a city of pink and blue marble, of cupolas, porticoes, volutes, bronze doors, and copper
roofs. Along the fringe of the shore were Choraizin and Bethsaïda, purple with pomegranates,
Capharnahum, beloved for its honey, and Magdala, scented with spice. The slopes and intervales
were very green where they were not yellow, and there were terraces of grape, glittering cliffs,
and a sky of troubled blue, wadded with little gold-edged clouds.

Yes, it was paradise, but it was not monarchy. It was to that he aspired. As he mused, a rancid-faced
woman decked with paint and ostrich-plumes snarled in his ear:

“What have you heard of Iohanan?”

And as with a gesture he signified that he had heard nothing, she snarled again.

Antipas turned to her reflectively, but it was of another that he thought—the brown-eyed bride
that Arabia had given him, the lithe-limbed princess of the desert whose heart had beaten on
his own, whom he had loved with all the strength of youth and weakness, and whom he had deserted
while at Rome for his brother’s wife, his own niece, Herodias, who snarled at his side.

Behind her were her women, and among them was one who, as the cars swept by, turned her head
with that movement a flower has which a breeze has stirred. Her eyes were sultry, darkened
with stibium; on her cheek was the pink of the sea-shell, and her lips made one vermilion rhyme.
The face was oval and rather small; and though it was beautiful as victory, the wonder of her
eyes, which looked the haunts of hope fulfilled, the wonder of her mouth, which seemed to promise
more than any mortal mouth could give, were forgotten in her hair, which was not orange nor
flame, but a blending of both. And now, as the cars passed, her thin nostrils quivered, her
hand rose as a bird does and fluttered with delight.

On the adjacent tiers were Greeks, fat-calved Cypriotes, Cappadocians with flowers painted
on their skin, red Egyptians, Thracian mercenaries, Galilean fishermen, and a group of Lydians
in women’s clothes.

On the tier just beyond was a man gazing wistfully at the woman that sat behind Herodias. He
was tall and sinewy, handsome with the comeliness of the East. His beard was full, unmarred
at the corners; his name was Judas. Now and then he moistened his under lip, and a Thracian
who sat at his side heard him murmur “Mary” and some words of Syro-Chaldaic which the Thracian
did not understand.

To him Mary paid no attention. She had turned from the track. An officer had entered the tetrarch’s
tribune and addressed the prince. Antipas started; Herodias colored through her paint. The
latter evidently was pleased.

“Iohanan!” she exclaimed. “To Machærus with him! You may believe in fate and mathematics; I
believe in the axe.”

And questioningly Herodias looked at her husband, who avoided her look, yet signified his assent
to the command she had given.

The din continued. From the tier beyond, Judas still gazed into the perils of Mary’s eyes.

“Dear God,” he muttered, in answer to an anterior thought, “it would be the birthday of my life.”

                               CHAPTER II.

                                   II.

“O Prophet Iohanan, how fair you are!”

Iohanan was hideous. His ankles were in stocks, a chain about his waist was looped in a ring
that hung from the wall. About his body were tattered furs, his hair was tangled, the face
drawn and yellow. Vermin were visible on his person. His lips twitched, and his gums, discolored,
were as those of a camel that has journeyed too far. A tooth projected, green as a fresh almond
is; the chin projected too, and from it on one side a rill of saliva dripped upon the naked
breast. On the terrace he was a blur, a nightmare in a garden.

“Ah, how fair!”

Tantalizing as temptation, Mary stood just beyond his reach. Her eyes were full of compliments,
her body was bent, and, the folds of her gown held back, she swayed a little, in the attitude
of one cajoling a tiger. She was quite at home and at her ease, and yet prepared for instant
flight.

Iohanan, or John—surnamed, because of practices of his, the Baptist—beckoned her to approach.
In his eyes was the innocence that oxen have.

“My body is chained, but my soul is free!”

Mary made a pirouette, and through the terrace of the citadel the rattles on her ankles rang.

