The same day as that on which the first of Mr. Bennitt's four drawings arrived--(he must not
be confounded with the Colonel Bennitt who is referred to later on)--saw also the first contribution
of Mr. J. Sands, Charles Keene's friend, who put his little anagrammatic device of an hour-glass
to more than three-score drawings between the years 1870 and 1880. Save for their ingenuity,
they were not of first-rate importance. Mr. Sands had been an Edinburgh and Arbroath solicitor;
a prairie farmer; an art-student under Charles Keene, who made him practise drawing until he
became dyspeptic and melancholy at the sight of his own feeble work; an emigrant to Buenos
Ayres, where he practised most trades in turn, including that of newspaper artist; a contributor
and draughtsman (again under Keene's eye) to London magazines, and to Punch; a sojourner in
the almost inaccessible island of St. Kilda; an archæological explorer in the islands of the
Hebrides; and finally, for thirteen years a hermit, living a hermit's life, solitary and intellectual,
at the water's edge, at Walls, Shetland. Many have been the stones that have rolled for Punch,
but few that have rolled so far, or gathered so much moss the while. In his more civilised
moments, so to speak, Mr. Sands lived for a time a good deal in the life of Keene, to whom
he presented many jokes and sketches for pictures; but he became disheartened at the slowness
of his own promotion, and suspecting, moreover, that Keene, in his heart, would have been glad
were he to retire in favour of Mr. A. Corbould, Keene's nephew, he finally decided to withdraw.
Nevertheless, the friendship of the two men lasted to the end--a friendship that was a rare
and deep attachment.

Two more names belong to 1870--that of Mr. E. F. Brewtnall, R.W.S., whose single contribution
was sent in in this year; and Mr. W. Ralston, of Glasgow, later a photographer by profession,
but by taste and opportunity an artist. It was with Shirley Brooks's succession to the Editorship
that Mr. Ralston obtained his recognition. "I remember," says the draughtsman, "how in walking
down to business that day I tried to look unconscious of my greatness, and mentally determined
that it would make no difference in my bearing." His drawings at first were very hard, but
the point of humour was invariably good, and the Scottish "wut" equal to that of the best man
who ever drew for the paper. He was a self-taught draughtsman, who learned by watching his
younger brother, "whose artistic boots," says he, "I was not fit to black;" but he improved
rapidly, and contributed in all two hundred and twenty-seven drawings, initials, and "socials."
At the death of Tom Taylor, Mr. Ralston's contributions ceased, only one more from his pencil
ever appearing in the paper--in 1886. It was partly because Mr. Ralston became a busy "Graphic"
artist, and partly because the Editor was in search of new blood; but the only time Mr. Ralston
made his post-Taylorian appearance in Punch (that was not "old stock") was with an article
in the Sandford and Merton style, directed against the Duke of Bedford and the Bloomsbury gates.
This little attack, called "K.G.--Q.E.D.," constitutes Mr. Ralston's sole contribution to the
literature of the age.

Mr. A. Chantrey Corbould, as already explained, was introduced to Punch by his uncle, Charles
Keene. Beginning in 1871, he worked on until 1890, when a temporary cessation intervened. His
work, dealing chiefly with hunting and "horsey" subjects, has always a certain freshness, in
spite of being, technically speaking, a little tight, and at one time raised their author to
very near the front rank in popularity. He was only eighteen when he joined (the expression
"Mr. Punch's young men," it will be seen, is no misnomer), having already had the benefit of
Keene's advice. One of the elder artist's letters is before me as I write:--

     "I saw your drawing this morning," he says, "and think it very
     good, considering the short time you have had to study art; but I
     can see that the execution would render the drawing rather
     difficult to engrave, and you want a little more study and practice
     in 'the human face divine' to please the newspaper people. I never
     give advice on these matters, but I can tell you from my own
     experience I don't think drawing on wood is a good road to stand on
     as an artist; but if you don't agree with me, and wish to go in for
     this particular branch, it seems to me that you should article or
     apprentice yourself by legal agreement with some engraver of large
     business for a certain time on certain terms. This is how I began,
     and have been sorry for it ever since!"

Fourteen years later, when Mr. Corbould was still hoping for that position with which many
people already credited him--a Staff appointment--Keene wrote:--

     "I've no doubt myself that it is in your power, if you manage well,
     to get on to Punch. It is rather unlucky that Burnand is not a
     sporting man" [Mr. Burnand, by the way, is an inveterate horseman].
     "... I should advise you to drive gently but steadily at hunting
     and country subjects, and if you get a good idea of any sort have a
     shy at it, and encourage your friends to look out for you....
     You've noticed I only do one a week now, as a rule. I send you an
     idea you might work out. Wouldn't you make it a meet (in
     background), and the speakers mounted?

     "'Think I must part with him.' SHE: 'What! all at once, wholesale?
     Wouldn't it be better to sell him retail on little skewers?' I'll
     look out and send you anything in your line I hear of."

This joke of Keene's was duly worked out by Mr. Corbould, and was produced Nov. 22, 1884 (p.
249, Vol. LXXXVII). Up to this time the draughtsman had worked under three Editors, to whom,
as was the practice, he would send in slight sketches to "legends," and work out those which
were accepted, the selection being made in due course, with a bit of criticism to take the
vanity out of him, thus: "Very good subject. The man is far too big for the horse, which is
a 15.3 if he's an inch. This was generally Leech's mistake; so you err in remarkably good company.
Why 'Hunting Puzzle'? It's not a puzzle."

Apart from a couple of sketches by Mrs. Field and one by Mr. Graham, the year 1872 brought
no contributor but Randolph Caldecott. The half-a-dozen sketches together comprising his "Seaside
Drama" (p. 120, Vol. LXI.) contains no hint of that peculiar style, individual humour, and
perfect suggestion, which he was to make his own. His drawings were published in 1872, 1873,
and 1875, and then again in 1879, 1880, 1882, and 1883--eighteen drawings in all; but it was
not until 1879 that Caldecott showed any of his later freshness and humorous exaggeration.
It was in 1870, his biographer asserts, that his drawings were shown to Shirley Brooks and
Mark Lemon:--

     "Mr. Clough thus records the incident: Bearing an introductory
     letter, he went up to London on a flying visit, carrying with him a
     sketch on wood and a small book of drawings of 'The Fancies of a
     Wedding.' He was well received. The sketch was accepted, and with
     many compliments the book of drawings was detained. 'From that day
     to this,' said Mr. Caldecott, 'I have not seen either sketch or
     book.' Some time after, on meeting Mark Lemon, the incident was
     recalled, when the burly, jovial Editor replied, 'My dear fellow, I
     am vagabondising to-day, not Punching.' I don't think Mr.
     Caldecott rightly appreciated the joke."[66]

Caldecott had had some practice in humorous drawing, having drawn three years before for the
"Will-o'-the-Wisp" and "The Sphinx." But his Punch work was merely occasional; his more serious
labours were for the "Graphic," "The Pictorial World," and most notably, on Mr. Edmund Evans's
suggestion, for the immortal children's books which the engraver might print in colours. He
was only forty years old when he died, and Punch, in the course of a long obituary poem, bore
witness to his singular charm, though he made no reference to the work contributed to his own
pages:--

  "Sure never pencil steeped in mirth
    So closely kept to grace and beauty.
  The honest charms of mother Earth,
    Of manly love, and simple duty,
  Blend in his work with boyish health,
    With amorous maiden's meek cajolery,
  Child-witchery, and a wondrous wealth
    Of dainty whim and daring drollery."

Perhaps the best military contributor of jokes that Punch has had is Major-General H. G. Robley.
Keene, as I have already stated, re-drew or touched up the earlier of his sketches, which dealt
for the most part with military life on foreign service. Twenty-seven contributions, many of
them unsigned and of varying degrees of importance, came from young Captain Robley, as he was
then, of the 91st (Argyle and Sutherland) Highlanders. To Keene he was, as the artist confessed,
"a very obliging correspondent," who sketched well and sent him many suggestions. "You see,
a mess-table makes a very 'preserve' for Punch subjects. I don't follow his drawings very much,
but they are very useful in military subjects." Captain Robley contributed during the years
1873-8. Mr. W. J. Hennessy, who has since established his position as a delicate and accomplished
draughtsman, made a couple of drawings of social subjects in 1873, and two more in 1875, but
they were by no means of the excellence to which the artist afterwards attained.

No fresh contributor appears in 1874, the couple of sketches signed "C. B." having been sent
in twelve months before, and that of F. Woods having been practically redrawn, although his
initials were allowed to stand; but 1875 witnessed the work of five new hands in the paper.
The first was Robert Bruce Wallace, whose style was modelled on that of C. H. Bennett, and
greatly inspired besides by Mr. Sambourne. The bulk of his work was done from 1875 to 1878
inclusive, but in the latter year he fell away, and his contributions became very rare. He
died in 1893, and one of his drawings made a posthumous appearance in 1894. He was a very prolific
contributor. Wallace gave up his Punch connection--not, as has been said, because the remuneration
was insufficient, but because he considered himself ill-treated. According to him, he had fully
understood that he was to succeed Miss Georgina Bowers, and with this promotion in view, he
had proceeded to Worcestershire from Manchester, where he lived, and made preparatory studies
of horse and hound and landscape scenery. When, contrary to expectation, he found himself passed
by, he was grievously disappointed and annoyed, and refused to go on with initials and so forth--which
he drew with so much beauty and conscientiousness. He was a secretary of the Manchester Academy
of Fine Arts, and had a considerable reputation as a wit at its councils; and when Ford Madox
Brown was engaged on his Manchester frescoes, Wallace acted for some time as his assistant.

Then followed Colonel Ward Bennitt, late of the 5th Lancers, who drew several initials and
"socials;" but being at that time a lieutenant (in the 6th Inniskilling Dragoons), he found
that he had no time during the day to draw for Punch, and that night work affected his eyesight.
Mr. J. Curren, with a couple of sketches, in 1875 and 1876; Mr. L. G. Fawkes, of the Royal
Hibernian Academy, with a single drawing in the former year; and that clever young painter,
Valentine Bromley, who died so young after promising so well, with a single drawing, complete
the list; but there was nothing distinctive in the work of any save the last.

Mr. Montagu Blatchford, who adopted--not without success--the Bennett-Sambourne-Wallace style
of half-decorative, half-pictorial representation, appeared towards the end of 1876; and although
he was supplanted a few years later by Mr. Harry Furniss and Mr. Wheeler, he continued, even
after 1881, to be seen fitfully in Punch. He was, by profession, a carpet-designer, with unusual
skill in freehand drawing; and when in the spring of 1876 he no longer saw Mr. Sambourne's
work in the paper, he adopted the shrewd idea of sending in some sketches in which that artist's
style was respectfully imitated. But Tom Taylor was shrewder still, and wrote: "Dear Sir,--Mr.
Sambourne's absence is only temporary. I have not, therefore, an opening for a designer to
fill his place, and return your drawings, which are very clever;" adding that he would be glad
to give the young applicant an opening if possible--a chance which soon came, but which never
meant very much for the artist. He began with a comic umbrella-stand, and from that basis made
scores of small subjects, all, with but half-a-dozen exceptions, of his own suggestion. Then,
when Tom Taylor died he sent less and less--a little sore that he should be pushed aside for
younger men--and finally ceased altogether, returning to Halifax in response to business calls.
Then followed W. J. Hodgson (who is not to be confounded with the draughtsman of the same name
and initials of nearly twenty years later), with four cuts, during 1876 and the two next years;
"Captain F.," with a couple; Miss Fraser ("MF"), daughter of Colonel Fraser of the City Police,
with seven sketches; and Mr. Hallward, with a couple of initials.

For four years no accession of importance was made, Mr. W. G. Smith, with a single initial,
and Mr. W. G. Holt, with three more ambitious cuts, being all that 1878 had to show; while
1879 brought forth Mr. Dower Wilson with a "social" in the Almanac, and a nameless F. B. ("Memorials").
In the following year Mr. Athelstan Rusden made his maiden appearance as an illustrator with
a Disraeli Elephant, which he had drawn on the wood and sent in from Manchester; but "Moonshine"
offered the inducement of continuous occupation, and the young amateur drifted away.

The year 1880 is memorable for the enlistment of Mr. Harry Furniss. Mr. E. J. Wheeler was the
other arrival, and he still (1895) spreads over Punch's pages his bright little theatrical
sketches and initials, as well as illustrations to Mr. Burnand's own literary contributions.
His drawings are unmistakable, as much by their rather old-fashioned method as by the well-known
monogram of later years, or by the appropriate sign-manual of a "four-Wheeler" in his earlier
contributions.

In Mr. Harry Furniss Punch found an artist who was destined to become, during the fourteen
years of his connection, a considerable factor in his career. Mr. Furniss was bred up in the
Punch tradition. While still a boy at school in Ireland--where, through a mistake on Time's
part, he was born, of English and Scotch parents--he produced, edited, and illustrated "The
Schoolboys' Punch" in manuscript, in careful imitation of the original, drawing the cartoon
as well. One of these "big cuts" represented himself as the performer in a cabinet-trick--(the
sensation of the Davenport Brothers was before the public at the time)--in which the cabinet
was the school, and the ropes that bound him the curriculum; while from another cabinet he
emerges in full blaze of scholastic triumph. He soon began drawing, and engraving his own designs,
for Mr. A. M. Sullivan's Irish version of Punch; and having met Tom Taylor--who then reigned
in Whitefriars--and been by him applauded for his sketches, he accepted the hint that he might
send in drawings to the original Hunchback of Fleet Street. But when they came, Taylor declined
them on the ground that the ideas were unsuitable; yet, curiously enough, they several times
appeared, re-drawn by members of the Staff. One of these, re-drawn by Mr. du Maurier in February,
1877, represented a scene witnessed by Mr. Furniss from the railway--a flooded field navigated
by two men in a boat, who are reading a notice-board indicating that the submerged "highly-eligible
site" was "To be Let or Sold for Building." Mr. Furniss thereupon decided to have done with
Punch during that editorship; and came to London to seek his artistic fortune. He speedily
made such way on leading journals, especially on the "Illustrated London News," that Mr. Burnand,
on succeeding to his office, invited the young draughtsman, then aged twenty-six, to become
a regular contributor. Mr. Furniss's first sketch (published on p. 204, Vol. LXXIX., 1880)
was a skit on what is ignorantly called the Temple Bar Griffin--(it is really an heraldic dragon,
designed by Horace Jones)--executed by his friend C. B. Birch, A.R.A.

At that time Mr. Henry W. Lucy had just been summoned to reinforce Punch's Staff, and to take
over the "Essence of Parliament," since Shirley Brooks's death so ponderously distilled by
the late Tom Taylor, and to him was left the selection of an illustrator of his "Toby's Diaries."
In selecting Mr. Furniss he made a wise choice, for the "Lika Joko" of later times had been
a close student of politics, and seemed cut out for the post. How he justified himself is sufficiently
known; he achieved for himself a great popularity, and unquestionably acquired for Punch a
unique position among journals, as representing to the people that personal side of Parliamentary
life, the familiar aspect and the vie intime of the House of Commons, not to be found elsewhere.
No doubt, here and there some offence was taken; and wives would at times protest against the
caricatures of husbands' figures, clothes, or faces; but as a rule the "truthful falsehood"
was appreciated by Mr. Furniss's victims--many of whom would ask to be included in his pictures--and
few frequenters of the Lobby were more popular than he.

"Mr. Gladstone's collars" are a by-word in the land; and Mr. Furniss made them. It is generally
recognised that Mr. Gladstone wore no such collars. Nevertheless, his favourite sitting attitude
in the House was one very low down, his chin buried in his chest; and the more tired or depressed
he was--the more weary or dejected at the course of the debate--the more his head would sink
within his collar, and the more the linen rose. This fact gave Mr. Furniss the idea, in the
course of a few sessions, of his drawing of "Mr. Gladstone's Choler Getting Up;" and thereon
was based his popular fiction. Similarly, the representation of Lord Randolph Churchill as
a small boy of irrepressible "cheek" was at first intended to typify the noble lord's irrepressible
unimportance in the Chamber (that was before he had risen from the Fourth Party leadership
to the Chancellorship of the Exchequer); while the creation of the complacent, many-chinned
descendant of the Plantagenets in "The House of Harcourts"--a page imagined and drawn in greatest
haste straight on to the wood-block, to fill up--was received with uproarious delight by the
public as a true piece of satirical humour. But of all his "types" the funniest, as well as
the easiest, was the ungainly but side-splitting caricature of Sir Richard Temple--which helped
not a little to spread his fame throughout the land. All these men took the fun in the best
of good part, Sir William Harcourt only protesting--not when Harry Furniss endowed him with
an extra chin, but when he did not credit him with the full complement of hair.

To obtain his portraits Mr. Furniss would stalk his quarries unawares: for self-consciousness
in a sitter kills all character. A favourite ruse was for him to tell Mr. A. that he wanted
to sketch Mr. B., and that his work would be greatly facilitated if the hon. member would keep
the other in conversation. Mr. A. would enter gleefully into the joke, and then Harry Furniss
would sketch Mr. A! If need be, he would make his sketch, unseen and unseeing, upon a piece
of cardboard or in a sketch-book, in the side-pocket of his overcoat. In this way detail, mannerism,
gesture, pose--character, in fact, would be secured, and next week's Punch might contain the
portrait--sometimes severe, generally humorous, and always well-observed. A rapid worker, too,
is Furniss--incomparably the quickest of his colleagues--who could produce anything from a
thumbnail sketch to a full-page drawing, portraits and all, in an hour or so, although he would
prefer, of course, to have fair time to arrange his composition, to pencil it in, and then
work it up carefully from the living model. On the occasion when Lord Randolph Churchill's
hunting adventures in South Africa kept London amused, Mr. Furniss, who was in the country
and about to start for town by rail, saw an account of the exploit in the morning paper. He
wired to Mr. Burnand: "See Churchill's lion-hunt, page -- 'Times.' Splendid opportunity. Reply
---- Junction." At ten-thirty he found the answer awaiting him at the junction: "Good. Let
engravers have it to-day." He set to work at once in the train. Having to change several times,
he found the junctions of great use for drawing in the faces; and by half-past four the finished
page was in Mr. Swain's possession.

Indefatigable and unconventional, as much a journalist as an artist, gifted with a rapid intelligence
and a subacid humour, Mr. Furniss, in his work on Punch, has been extremely varied, and by
the strength of his personality he imparted to the Parliamentary side of the paper a touch
of his own convictions. It was obvious from his treatment of the Irish that he was a strong
Unionist, and that his sympathy with the Irish party was neither very deep nor very cordial.
This was emphasised by some of the best caricatures he ever produced. They were bitterly resented;
but probably more ill-feeling was created by the ludicrous picture he subsequently drew of
the patriots as they returned, sea-sick, moist, and dejected, to Dublin from the "London Conference,"
entitled "A Sketch at Kingstown." On the top of this came the irritation caused by his laughable
but merciless mimicry, in his famous entertainment of "The Humours of Parliament," of the imaginary
Member for Ballyhooly; but it was the caricatures of Mr. Swift MacNeill, M.P., that brought
matters to a head. Mr. MacNeill had previously appreciated the sketches, and begged certain
of them. But at last, on the occasion of an exuberant and unflattering, but still not an ill-humoured,
portrait, supported by a solid contingent of his Party, he sought the artist out and, reproaching
him in excited and unmeasured terms, he committed a "technical assault" upon him. Mr. Furniss
was not to be induced to retaliate, even when Dr. Tanner, M.P., and others who surrounded him
addressed him in words more violent and offensive than Mr. MacNeill's, and threatened him with
corporal punishment. As it appeared to the draughtsman that it was all a pre-arranged affair,
he remained passive, lest a development of the situation should lead--as it was probably intended
that it should lead--to his exclusion from the Lobby. Punch himself, however, snapped his fingers
at this argumentum baculinum, and Mr. Furniss, with rare good taste, revenged himself by a
full-page drawing (21st September, 1893) of "A House of Apollo-ticians," in which every member
has been idealised to a point of extraordinary personal beauty, while the artist himself appears
in the corner as a malignant ape of hideous aspect. This was balm, no doubt, to the gentleman
who had been so incensed at being "caricatured, now as a potato, now as a gorilla;" while the
situation was cleverly summed up thus:--

  "O, Mr. MacNeill was quite happy until a
  Draughtsman in Punch made him like a gorilla--
  At the Zoo the gorilla quite happy did feel
  Till the draughtsman in Punch made him like the MacNeill."

Meanwhile, several series of importance had come from his pencil. His "Puzzle-heads" are marvels
of ingenuity, in each of which a portrait of a celebrity is built up of personal attributes,
characteristics, or incidents in the career of the person represented; his Lika Joko "Japanneries"
caught with amazing truth the spirit of Japanese draughtsmanship--far more completely than
either Bennett or Brunton ever succeeded in achieving; and his "Interiors and Exteriors" reflect
social and public life with exuberant, almost with extravagant, humour.

But the end of his connection with Punch was at hand. He had joined in October, 1880. He had
been called to the Table four years later, and on the 21st February, 1894, he ate his last
dinner at it, and resigned in the following month. Meanwhile, like Charles Keene, he was never
one of the salaried Staff, but to the end was paid by the square inch. This permitted him to
do as much work as he chose for other papers; but it made him feel, at the same time, that
he was not flesh of their flesh, while he suspected himself of getting into a cast-iron groove
from which he sought to free himself. So, after a minor "misunderstanding" had been put right,
Mr. Furniss quitted his old friend Punch, and forthwith set about starting a monthly magazine
of his own. This enterprise, in the course of evolution, was considerably modified; and for
a time the weekly "Lika Joko" soon emerged into open rivalry with the paper which for nearly
fourteen years had made the name of Furniss as celebrated throughout all English-speaking lands
as that of any of his colleagues.

And such is the Passing of Furniss, whose extraordinary powers of observation (he was the first,
by the way, to detect and represent truthfully Mr. Gladstone's loss of a digit) and of catching
a likeness in its essential lines, and whose unbounded and buoyant good-humour early justified
Mr. Burnand's selection. Though he so soon drifted into Parliamentary sketching, there is no
class of work, except the officially-recognised political "cartoons," which he did not attempt;
and he romped through Punch's pages with unlimited invention and inexhaustible resource--with
comedy and farce, with drama and tragedy, and sometimes with work startling in its truth and
touching in its pathos.

       *       *       *       *       *

The men who immediately followed Mr. Harry Furniss did not come to stay. In December, 1880,
a sketch of "Cherry Unripe"--a clever parody on Sir John Millais' famous picture--was contributed
by Mr. Stowers, who then rested on his laurels. Mr. Finch Mason contributed three sporting
cuts in 1881, three in 1882, and one in the following year, and then Mr. Charles J. Lillie
appeared on the scene. Mr. Lillie's principal victories have been won in the field of poster-designing,
his favourite achievement being the design of a young lady in bathing costume who, being wrecked,
succeeded by the aid of Somebody's Soap, with the cleverness of her sex, in "washing herself
ashore." At the time when Mr. Herkomer was designing his famous poster for the "Magazine of
Art," Mr. Lillie submitted to Punch a set of humorous sketches nominally adapted to similar
advertisements of wines. Thus, "Port: Old and Crusty," was of course a typical Colonel Chutnee,
a fire-eating Anglo-Indian; "Sherry: Pale and Dry," was an ascetic philosopher; "Claret: Very
Light and Delicate," was a maiden dainty and graceful; and so forth. Some of these were published
in the early summer of 1881; but that of "Champagne" (here reproduced) was not used. Shortly
afterwards the clever draughtsman sought work and adventure in Europe, Africa, and America,
and on his return devoted himself to story-writing, confining his pencil to the illustration
of his own articles. Like Mr. Sambourne and others of Mr. Punch's artistic contributors, Mr.
Lillie was trained as an engineer.

As already recounted, a new idea was carried into effect in Punch's Almanac for 1882: drawings
were sought from certain members of the Royal Academy who were supposed to be afflicted with
the vis comica in any pronounced degree. Of these, only Mr. G. A. Storey made his début in
Punch on this occasion; but his drawing of "Little Snowdrop"--a fancy character-portrait of
a Dutch lady--pretty as it was, displayed but a very mild sort of humour. In the following
February Mr. Alfred Bryan began his series of "Sketches by Boz," in which public men of the
day were caricatured as personages in Dickens' novels. Thus, the Duke of Cambridge was most
happily identified with "Joe Bagstock, Sir!", Sir John Holker was the Fat Boy, and Mr. Bradlaugh
appeared as Rogue Riderhood "taking his Davy." These clever sketches, to the number of twenty-seven,
were spread over that year and the next, when, to the regret of both Editor and artist, the
connection was unavoidably severed.

FOOTNOTES:

[64] Mr. Sambourne's cartoons are dealt with in the chapter devoted to that subject.

[65] It may be as well to give here the names of the diners, so that the reader may identify
them in the reproduction which forms the frontispiece to this volume. Mr. Burnand, at the head
of the table, with his left hand outstretched towards the figure of Punch, is giving the toast
of the evening; on his left is Mr. Anstey, and then Mr. Lucy and Mr. E. T. Reed, the late Gilbert
à Beckett and Mr. Milliken, Sir W. Agnew, the late Mr. W. H. Bradbury, Mr. du Maurier, Mr.
Furniss and Mr. R. C. Lehmann, Mr. Arthur à Beckett, Mr. Sambourne, and Sir John Tenniel. The
portraits and busts along the wall are (from left to right) of Mark Lemon, Gilbert Abbott à
Beckett, with, under it, Douglas Jerrold, Thackeray, Doyle, Hood, Leech, Shirley Brooks, and
Tom Taylor. On the easel is a portrait of Charles Keene, then recently dead.

[66] This is all very well; but as the alleged visit took place in 1870, the year in which
Caldecott came up to London, and as Mark Lemon died on the 23rd of May in that year, and that
not suddenly, the story is hardly above suspicion.

At the same time as the single sketch signed with a swan (by Mr. Thompson), Mr. William Padgett,
the excellent painter of poetical landscape, made his unique appearance. He had been arranging
the mock-æsthetic costumes for Mr. Burnand at the Prince of Wales's Theatre, when "The Colonel"
was about to deal a crushing blow at the absurdities of the "artistic craze." Mr. Padgett had
painted the large picture called "Ladye Myne"--a burlesque of the "greenery-yallery" type then
in fashion at the Grosvenor Gallery; and the departure of the apostle of the movement from
these shores for the United States inspired the painter with the words and the drawing of the
mourning "Ariadne," which were shown to the Editor of Punch and forthwith inserted. The only
other stranger of 1882 was Mr. Pigott, with a single sketch entitled "Cultcha."

