THE SECRET CHAMBER AT CHAD by Everett Evelyn-Green.

Table of Contents

CHAPTER I:    A MYSTERIOUS VISITOR. CHAPTER II:   THE HOUSEHOLD AT CHAD. CHAPTER III:  BROTHER
EMMANUEL. CHAPTER IV:   THE TRAVELLING PREACHER. CHAPTER V:    A WARNING. CHAPTER VI:   WATCHED!
CHAPTER VII:  AN IMPOSING SPECTACLE. CHAPTER VIII: HIDDEN AWAY. CHAPTER IX:   THE SEARCH. CHAPTER
X:    FROM PERIL TO SAFETY.

Chapter I: A Mysterious Visitor.

The great house at Chad was wrapped in sleep. The brilliant beams of a June moon illuminated
the fine pile of gray masonry with a strong white light. Every castellated turret and twisted
chimney stood out in bold relief from the heavy background of the pine wood behind, and the
great courtyard lay white and still, lined by a dark rim of ebon shadow.

Chad, without being exactly a baronial hall of the first magnitude, was nevertheless a very
fine old house. It had been somewhat shorn of its pristine glories during the Wars of the Roses.
One out of its original two quadrangles had then been laid in ruins, and had never been rebuilt.
But the old inner quadrangle still remained standing, and made an ample and commodious dwelling
house for the family of the Chadgroves who inhabited it; whilst the ground which had once been
occupied by the larger outer quadrangle, with its fortifications and battlements, was now laid
out in terraces and garden walks, which made a pleasant addition to the family residence.

The seventh Henry was on the throne. The battle of Bosworth Field had put an end to the long-drawn
strife betwixt the houses of York and Lancaster. The exhausted country was beginning to look
forward to a long period of prosperity and peace; and the household at Chad was one of the
many that were rejoicing in the change which had come upon the public outlook, and was making
the most of the peaceful years which all trusted lay before the nation.

Several changes of some importance had passed over Chad during the previous century. The wars
had made gaps in the ranks of the family to whom it had always belonged. There had been sundry
edicts of confiscation--as speedily repealed by the next change in the fate of the day; and
more than once the head had been struck down by death, and the house and lands had passed either
to a minor or to some other branch of the family. There had been the confusion and strife betwixt
the various branches of the family which was a characteristic of that age of upheaval and strife;
but the present owner of the estate, Sir Oliver Chadgrove, seemed firmly settled in his place.
He had fought on Henry's side at Bosworth, and had been confirmed by that monarch in the possession
of the estate of Chad; and since that day none had tried to dispute his claim; nor, indeed,
would it have been very easy to do so, as he was undoubtedly the rightful representative of
the older branch of the family.

A just and kindly man, he was beloved of those about him, and would have been staunchly supported
by his retainers had any adversary arisen against him. His only enemy was the Lord of Mortimer,
who owned Mortimer's Keep, the adjoining property, and had cast covetous eyes on Chad during
the stormy days of the late wars, more than once trying unsuccessfully to step in between the
disputing parties and claim it as his own, not by the power of right, but by that of might
alone. However, he had not been successful in this attempt; and for the past few years there
had been a semblance of friendliness between Sir Oliver and his proud and powerful neighbour.

The knight was well aware that the friendliness was more a seeming than a reality. He was perfectly
well acquainted with the rapacious character of the owner of Mortimer's Keep, and with his
covetous designs upon Chad. He knew he was a secret foe, always on the watch for any cause
of complaint against him; and he could often feel that it would take very little to stir up
the old jealous strife and hostility. Still, for the present an armed truce was the order of
the day, and Sir Oliver, knowing his own loyalty, the cleanness of his hands, and the uprightness
of his dealings, was not much afraid that his enemy would ever succeed in ousting him from
his lands, or in gaining possession of the fair park and house of Chad for himself.

Sir Oliver was personally liked by the king, which was another point in his favour. Without
being a brilliant ruler like his successors, the seventh Henry had the faculty of choosing
men of parts to place about him, and he had recognized in Sir Oliver Chadgrove certain qualities
which he approved, and of which he wished to avail himself from time to time. So the knight
was frequently summoned to attend the king, and occasionally his wife went with him and appeared
at court. On this particular bright June night, both the master and the mistress were absent,
being at Windsor with the king's court; and the three boys--the children with whom Providence
had blessed them--were the only members of the family sleeping beneath the roof of the great house.

The bedchamber of the three boys was a large, bare room looking out across the wooded park
and ridge of hills, through which the little river of Chad meandered leisurely. The boys would
have preferred the courtyard for their lookout; but a lover of nature could not but be struck
by the exceeding beauty of the view from this row of latticed casements. And indeed the green
expanse of home-like country had its charm even for high-spirited boys; and Edred, the second
child of the house, often sat for hours together on the wide window ledge, gazing his fill
at the shifting lights and shadows, and dreaming dreams of his own about what he saw.

The long room contained three small narrow beds, and very little furniture besides, In each
of these beds a boy lay sleeping. The moonlight streaming in through the uncurtained windows
illuminated the whole room, and showed the curly heads, two dark and one fair, lying on the
hard pillows, and shone so straight into the face of the eldest boy, that he stirred a little
in his sleep, and half turned round.

He was a handsome lad of some eight or nine summers, with regular, strongly-marked features,
and dark hair and eyes. The brown hand and arm which lay exposed to view showed a muscular
development that betokened great strength to come when the boy should be grown to manhood,
and the face exhibited a like promise of strength of will and character.

Bertram Chadgrove, half aroused by the strong light of the moon in his face, opened his dark
eyes sleepily for a few minutes, and then turned over towards the wall, and prepared to slumber
again. But before he had sunk to sleep he became further aroused by a very peculiar sound in
the wall (as it seemed), close to which his bed was stationed; and instead of drowsing off
again, he woke up with all his faculties on the alert, much as a watchdog does, and sitting
up in bed he listened with all his ears.

Yes; there could be no mistaking it! There was certainly a sound--a muffled, curious sound--within
the very wall itself. He pressed his ear against the panel, and his eyes shone brightly in
the moonlight.

"It is some living thing," he whispered to himself. "Methinks it is surely some human thing.
Rats can make strange sounds, I know, but not such sounds as these. A human being, and within
the thickness of the wall! How can such a thing be? I never heard the like before. It comes
nearer--I hear the groping of hands close beside mine ear. Heaven send it be not a spirit from
the other world! I fear no mortal arm, of flesh and blood, but I desire not to see a visitor
from the land of shadows."

For a moment the boy's flesh crept on his bones, and the hair of his head seemed to rise up
from his scalp. The groping of those phantom hands against the wall just beside him was enough
to fill the stoutest heart with terror, in an age when superstition was always rife. He strove
to call to his brothers; but his voice was no more than a whisper, and his throat felt dry
and parched. Failing in making himself heard by his companions, he cowered down and drew the
clothes right over his head, shivering with fear; and it was several minutes before his native
courage came to his aid, and he felt ashamed of this paroxysm of terror.

"Fie upon me for a white-livered poltroon!" he cried, as the chill sweat of fear ceased to
break out upon him, and he rallied his courage and his determination.

"I am no better than a maid! Shame upon me for a coward! I will not call to Edred and Julian.
It shall not be said of me, even by mine own self, that I dared not face even a spirit from
the lower world alone. I will find out what this sound is, and that without the help of any
other living soul, else shall I despise myself forever!"

And with that resolve hot within him, Bertram threw back his coverings and prepared to rise
from his bed, when his attention was arrested by some strange stealthy sounds close against
the great carved chimney piece, on the same side of the room as his own bed.

His brothers slept on the opposite side of the big room. None of the sounds which were so astonishing
Bertram would penetrate to their sleeping senses. Had the eldest boy not been awake at the
beginning, he would scarce have heard the sound, so cautious and soft it was. But this noise
was something new. It was like hands fumbling and groping in search of something. Bertram held
his breath to listen, growing hot and cold by turns. But he drew some of his clothes cautiously
towards him, and silently slipped into his nether garments. He felt that if there were some
unseen enemy striving in mysterious fashion to penetrate into this room, he could better meet
him if he were clothed, however scantily, than he could do as he was; and he had ample time
to put on even his doublet and hose, and to cover himself up again in bed, with his small poniard
closely held in his hand, before there was any further development of that strange night's
drama which he was so breathlessly watching.

That something or somebody was seeking to find entrance into the room, he could not doubt for
a moment; but, on the other hand, it seemed an incredible surmise, because the wall along which
the unknown visitor had plainly felt his way was an outside wall, and if there really were
any person thus moving, he must be walking along some secret passage in the thickness of the
wall itself.

Such a thing was not impossible. Bertram knew of more than one such passage contrived in the
thickness of the wall in his ancient home, and all the family were acquainted with a certain
secret hiding place that existed, cleverly contrived in the rambling old building, which, with
its various levels and its wilderness of chimneys, might well defy detection, even with the
most skilled search. But the boy knew of no such passage or chamber in connection with their
sleeping room, and he was sure his parents did not know of one either, or any member of the
household. Therefore it was immensely surprising to hear these uncanny sounds, and it was small
wonder if they did give rise to a wave of supernatural terror, of which the boy was man enough
to feel ashamed the moment reason had time to assert her sway.

"I have done no wrong; I confessed but three days since, and received blessing and absolution.
If any spirit were to come to visit this room, it could do me no hurt. Besides, methinks a
spirit would pass easily along the straightest place, and would not need to fumble thus as
if in search of hidden bolts.

"Ha! what is that! Methought some spring shot back. Hist! here IT comes!"

The boy lay back upon his bed, drawing the clothes silently up to his very eyes. The moonlight
had shifted just a little, and no longer illumined his face. That was now in shadow, and would
scarce reveal the fact that he was awake. He lay perfectly still, scarce daring to draw his
breath, and the next moment a strange thing happened.

The whole of one of the great carved pillars that supported the high mantle shelf swung noiselessly
forward, and stood out at right angles to the wall. From where he lay Bertram could not see,
but he could well understand that when this was done a narrow doorway had been revealed, and
the next moment a shadowy figure glided with noiseless steps into the room.

The figure was poorly clad in a doublet of serge much the worse for wear, and the moonlight
showed a strangely haggard face and soiled and torn raiment. Yet there was an air of dignity
about the mysterious visitor which showed to the astonished boy that he must at some time have
been in better circumstances, and lying quite still Bertram watched his movements with breathless
attention.

With a quick, scared glance round him, as though afraid that even the silence might be the
silence of treachery, the gaunt figure advanced with covert eagerness across the floor, leaving
the door wide open behind him, as if to be ready for him should he desire to fly; and precipitating
himself upon a ewer of cold water standing upon the floor, he drank and drank and drank as
though he would never cease.

Plainly he was consumed by the most raging thirst. Bertram had never seen anything but an exhausted
horse after a burning summer's chase in the forest drink in such a fashion. And as he watched,
all fear left him in a moment, for certainly no phantom could drink dry this great ewer of
spring water; and if he had only a creature of flesh and blood to deal with, why, then there
was certainly no cause for fear.

In place of dread and terror, a great pity welled up in the generous heart of the boy. He had
all the hatred for oppression and the chivalrous desire to help the oppressed that seem born
in the hearts of the sons of British birth. Who and what manner of man this was he did not
know; but he was evidently some poor hunted creature, going in very fear of his life, and as
such the boy pitied him from the very ground of his heart, and would gladly have helped him
had he known how.

He lay for a few moments wondering and pondering. Certainly his father was no foe to any man.
He could not be hiding from his displeasure. The fugitive had rather taken refuge in his house;
and if so, who better could be found to help him than the son of the owner?

"Our father and our mother alike have always taught us to befriend the stranger and the oppressed,"
said the boy to himself. "I will ask this stranger of himself, and see if I may befriend him.
I would gladly learn the trick of yon door. It would be a goodly secret to have for our very own."

It was plain that the fugitive, though aware that the room was tenanted, had satisfied himself
that the occupants were all asleep. He had ceased his frightened, furtive looks around him,
and was quaffing the last of the water with an air of relish and relief that was good to see,
pausing from time to time to stretch his limbs and to draw in great gulps of fresh air through
the open window by which he stood, as a prisoner might do who had just been released from harsh
captivity.

The moonlight shining upon his face showed it haggard, unkempt, and unshorn. Plainly he had
been several days in hiding; and by the gauntness of his figure, and the wolfish gleam in his
eye as it roved quickly round the apartment, as if in search of food, it was plain that he
was suffering keenly from hunger, too.

Bertram's decision was quickly taken. Whilst the man's face was turned the other way, he quickly
rose from his bed, and crossing the room with noiseless steps, laid a hand upon his arm.

"Hist, friend!" he whispered whilst the start given by the other, and the hoarse exclamation
that broke from his lips, might have wakened sleepers who were not healthy, tired boys. "Fear
not; I am no foe to betray thee. Tell me who and what thou art, and I will help thee all I may."

The frightened eyes bent upon him bespoke a great terror. The man's voice died away as he tried
to speak. The only word Bertram could catch seemed to be a prayer that he would not betray him.

"Betray thee! Never! Why, good fellow, dost not know that the Chadgroves never betray those
who trust in them? Hence sometimes has trouble come upon them. But before we talk, let me get
thee food. Methinks thou art well-nigh starved."

"Food! food! Ah, if thou wouldst give me that, young master, I would bless thee forever! I
have well-nigh perished with hunger and thirst. Heaven be thanked that I have tasted water
once again!"

"Come hither," said Bertram cautiously. "First close this narrow doorway, the secret of which
thou must teach me in return for what I will do for thee, and then I will take thee to another
chamber, where our voices will not disturb my brothers, and we can talk, and thou canst eat
at ease. I must know thy story, and I pledge myself to help thee. Show me now the trick of
this door. I swear I will make no treacherous use of the secret."

"I will trust thee, young sir. I must needs do so, for without human help I must surely die.

"Seest thou this bunch of grapes so cunningly carved here? This middle grape of the cluster
will turn round in the fingers that know how to find and grasp it, and so turning and turning
slowly, unlooses a bolt within--here--and so the whole woodwork swings out upon hinges and
reveals the doorway. Where that doorway leads I will show thee anon, if thou wouldst know the
trick of the secret chamber at Chad that all men have now forgotten. It may be that it will
some day shelter thee or thine, for thou hast enemies abroad, even as I have."

Bertram was intensely interested as he examined and mastered the simple yet clever contrivance
of this masked door; but quickly remembering the starved condition of his companion, he led
him cautiously into an adjoining room, where were a table and some scant furniture, and gliding
down the staircase and along dim corridors just made visible by the reflected radiance of the
moon, he reached the buttery, and armed himself with a venison pasty, a loaf of bread, and
a bottle of wine. Hurrying back with these, he soon had the satisfaction to see the stranger
fall upon them with the keen relish of a man who has fasted to the last limits of endurance;
and only after he had seen that the keen edge of his hunger had been satisfied did he try to
learn more of him and his concerns.

"Now tell me, my good friend, who and what thou art," said the boy, "and how comes it that
thou seekest shelter here, and that thou knowest more of Chad than we its owners do. That is
the thing which has been perplexing me this long while. I would fain hear from thy story how
it comes about."

"That is soon told, young sir. Thou dost not, probably, remember the name of Warbel as that
of some of the retainers of thy grandsire, but--"

"I have heard the name," said the boy. "I have heard my father speak of them. But I knew not
that there were any of that name now living."

"I am a Warbel--I trow the last of my race. I was born beyond the seas; but I was early brought
to England, and I heard munch of the strife that encompassed Chad, because my father and grandfather
both knew the place well, and would fain have gone back and lived in the old country had not
fortune otherwise decreed it. To make a long story short, they never returned to the place.
But when I was grown to man's estate, I was offered a post in the household of the Lord of
Mortimer, and as it was the best thing that had fallen in my way, I accepted it very gladly;
for I knew that name, too, and I knew naught against the haughty lord, albeit my father and
grandsire had not loved the lords of that name who lived before him.

"For many years I have been in his service, and for a while all went well with me. I was made
one of his gentlemen, and he seemed to favour me. But of late there has been a change towards
me--I know not how or why. I have offended him without intending it, and he has sometimes provoked
me almost beyond endurance by his proud insolence. But that I might have borne, for he was
my master, had it not been for the insolence and insults I had to bear from others amongst
his servants, and from one youth in particular, who seemed to me to be trying to oust me from
my place, and to get himself the foremost place in his master's favour. That made my hot blood
boil again and again, until at last the thing I believe they had long planned happened, and
I had to fly for my life."

The man paused, and Bertram, who was drinking in this story, asked eagerly: "And what was that?"

"It was four days ago now, in the hall where we had supped. We had drunk much wine in honour
of our master's birthday, and then we began playing and dicing to pass the time till we retired
to bed. My adversary was this youth whom I so greatly distrust. As we played I detected him
in unfair practices. He vowed I lied, and called upon me to prove my words at the sword's point;
but in my fury and rage I sprang upon him with my bare hands, and would have wrung his neck--the
insolent popinjay--had I been able. As it was, we struggled and swayed together till my greater
weight caused him to fall over backwards against one of the tables, and I verily believe his
back is broken. I know not whether he is living yet. But as he is not only a great favourite
with the Lord of Mortimer, but a distant kinsman to boot, no sooner was the deed done than
all in the hall called to me to save myself by flight, for that the master would revenge such
a death upon the perpetrator of it without mercy, and that if I wished to spare my neck I must
fly without an instant's delay.

"I knew this but too well myself. The baron was a fearful man to meet in his rage. Where to
fly I knew not, but stay I could not. I had bare time to rush to my room, don a dress that
would not excite inquiry if I had to lie hid in the forest a few days. I did not think flight
would be so difficult a matter, but I knew that every moment spent in Mortimer's Keep was at
peril of my life; and I had but just made my escape through a small postern door before I heard
the alarm bell ring, the drawbridge go up, and knew that the edict had gone forth for my instant
apprehension."

He paused with a slight shudder, and seemed to be listening intently.

"There is naught to fear here," said Bertram. "Tell me more of thy flight."

"It was terrible," answered the man. "I had not looked to be hunted like the wild beasts of
the forest; and yet an hour had not gone by before I heard, by the baying of the fierce hounds
that are kept at Mortimer, that a hunting party had sallied forth; and I knew that I was the
quarry. I doubled and ran like any hare. I knew the tricks of the wild things that have skill
in baffling the dogs, and at last I reached the shelter of these walls, and ran there for protection.
I had thrown off the dogs at the last piece of water; and in the marshy ground the scent did
not lie, and could not be picked up. For a brief moment I was safe; but I was exhausted almost
to death. I could go no further. I lay down beneath the shadow of some arbour within the sheltering
precincts of Chad, and wondered what would become of me."

"Yes, yes! and then--?"

"Then I remembered a story told me by my grandsire, years and years gone by, of a secret chamber
at Chad, which had sheltered many a fugitive in the hour of peril. Lying out in the soft night
air, I recalled bit by bit all that I had been told--the very drawings the old man had made
to amuse me in a childish sickness, how the door opened, and how access was had to the chamber.
I knew that the country round would be hunted for days, and that I could never escape the malice
of the Lord of Mortimer if I pursued my way to the sea. He would overtake and kill me before
I could make shift to gain that place of refuge. But I bethought me of the secret chamber and
its story, and methought I might slip in unseen did I but watch my opportunity, find my way
up the winding stair to this room, and so to the secret chamber beyond."

"And thou didst?"

"Ay, I did, the very next morning. I saw thee and thy brothers sally forth a-hunting. I saw
the men follow in thy train. I had heard that the knight and his lady with their retinue were
absent at Windsor. It needed no great skill to slip in unseen and gain the longed-for hiding
place. I had some food in my wallet. I fondly hoped it would prove enough; but the sounds of
hunting day by day all around have told me too well that I must not venture forth; and as this
room was slept in by night, I feared to sally forth after food, lest I should be found and
betrayed. I had heard of the merciful nature of the master of Chad; but in his absence I knew
not what his servants might say or do. Doubtless there is a reward offered for my apprehension;
and if that be so, how could I help fearing that any hired servant would betray me to my lord?"

"And thou thoughtest that servants slept in this room, and dared not show thyself either by
day or night for fear thou mightest be betrayed! And only hunger and thirst drove thee forth
at length?"

"Ay. And from my heart do I thank thee for thy kindness, young sir; and gladly will I show
thee in return the trick of yon chamber. If thou canst kindle a torch it will light us better,
for the way thither is wondrous tortuous and narrow."

Bertram had a little lantern--a very treasured possession of his--and after the usual tedious
process of lighting had been gone through, he softly led the way back to the sleeping chamber.
With his own hands he undid the fastening of the door and saw it swing open, and then the two
passed through into a very narrow aperture, which proved to be a long narrow gallery contrived
in the thickness of the wall, which would only just admit of the passage of one figure at a time.

As they went in they drew to the door, and the fugitive showed his young companion how the
bolt upon the inner side might be unloosed.

"It is easy enow in the light, but hard to feel in the black darkness," he remarked; and then
they pursued their devious way on and on through this strange passage, which wound up and down
and in and out, and landed them at last at the foot of a spiral staircase, so narrow and squeezed
in by masonry as to be barely serviceable for the purpose for which it was contrived. It led
them to a small door, through which they passed, to find themselves in a room of fair size
but very low, and without any window, which seemed to occupy (as indeed it did) a portion of
the house between two of the other floors, and was so contrived as to absolutely defy detection
be the examination of the structure of the house never so exhaustive. If the secret door were
not found, nothing else would ever betray this cunning hiding-place. Doubtless that was why,
during the many changes that had prevailed at Chad during the past fifty years, the knowledge
of its very existence had been lost.

"Air comes in freely through many cracks and slits," explained the prisoner. "It is not an
unpleasant place save in the heat of the middle day, when it becomes like a veritable oven.
That is why my thirst was so unbearable. There is a bed, as thou seest, and a chair and a few
other things. One could be comfortable here were it not for starvation and thirst."

"I will feed thee so long as thou remainest hid," cried the boy, with generous ardour. "Thou
shalt hide there by day, and by night shalt wander abroad an thou wilt, to breathe the air
and stretch thy limbs. My brothers and I will be thy friends. Thou needst fear nothing now.
We will find out when it is safe for thee to leave thy retreat, and then thou shalt go forth
without fear; or, if thou likest it better, thou shalt abide here till our father returns and
take service with him. I doubt not he would be glad enow to number a Warbel again amongst his
trusty servants."

The man's face lighted up wonderfully.

"If he would do that," he cried eagerly, "I should have no wish for anything better. But my
master, the baron--"

"My father fears not the baron!" answered the boy proudly; "and, besides, his young kinsman
is not dead. We heard something of his side of the tale, and the youth is not even like to
die now. My father could protect thee from his wrath. Stay here, and thou wilt have naught
to fear."

The fugitive took the lad's hand and pressed it to his lips.

"I will serve thee for ever and ever for this boon," he answered; and Bertram went back to
his room, to lie awake and muse over what had befallen till the dawn broke and his brothers
awoke to the new day.

To keep any secret from his two brothers was a thing impossible to Bertram, and before they
had finished dressing that morning, Edred and Julian were both made aware of the strange adventure
of the night previous. Looking up to Bertram, as they both did, as the embodiment of prowess
and courage, they did not grudge him his wonderful discovery, but they were eager to visit
the fugitive themselves, and to carry him food and drink.

The days that followed were days of absolute enchantment to the boys, who delighted in waiting
on Warbel and passing hours in his company. He told them entrancing stories of adventure and
peril. He was devoted to his three youthful keepers, and wished for nothing better than to
enter service with their father.

Later on, when all hue and cry after the missing man was over, and when Lord Mortimer's young
kinsman was so far recovered that it would be impossible to summon Warbel for any injury inflicted
on him, Bertram conducted him to the hut of one of his father's woodmen, who promised to keep
him safe till the return of the knight.

When Sir Oliver came back, Warbel was brought to him, told a part of his tale, and was admitted
readily as a member of the household; but the story of his incarceration in the secret chamber
remained a secret known only to himself and the three boys. So delightful a mystery as the
existence of this unknown chamber was too precious to be parted with; and it was a compact
between the boys and the man, who now became their chief attendant and body servant, that the
trick of that door and the existence of that chamber were to be told to none, but kept as absolutely
their own property.

Chapter II: The Household At Chad.

The office of mistress of a large household in the sixteenth century was no sinecure. It was
not the fashion then to depute to the hands of underlings the supervision of the details of
domestic management; and though the lady of the Hall might later in the day entertain royalty
itself, the early hours of the morning were spent in careful and busy scrutiny of kitchen,
pantry, and store or still room, and her own fair hands knew much of the actual skill which
was required in the preparation of the many compounds which graced the board at dinner or supper.

Lady Chadgrove was no exception to the general rule of careful household managers; and whilst
her lord and master went hunting or hawking in the fresh morning air, or shut himself up in
his library to examine into the accounts his steward laid before him or concern himself with
some state business that might have been placed in his hands, she was almost always to be found
in the offices of the house, looking well after the domestic details of household management,
and seeing that each servant and scullion was doing the work appointed with steadiness and
industry.

There was need for some such careful supervision of the daily routine, for the large houses
in the kingdom were mainly dependent upon their own efforts for the necessaries of life throughout
the year. In towns there were shops where provisions could be readily bought, but no such institution
as that of country shops had been dreamed of as yet. The lord of the manor killed his own meat,
baked his own bread, grew his own wheat, and ground his own flour. He had his own brewery within
the precinct of the great courtyard, where vast quantities of mead and ale were brewed, cider
and other lighter drinks made, and even some sorts of simple home-grown wines. Chad boasted
its own "vineyard," where grapes flourished in abundance, and ripened in the autumn as they
will not do now.

Nothing, perhaps, shows more clearly the change that has passed upon our climate by slow degrees
than a study of the parish records of ancient days. Vineyards were common enough in England
some hundreds of years ago, and wine was made from the produce as regularly as the season came
round. Then there were the simpler fruit wines from gooseberries, currants, and elderberries,
to say nothing of cowslip wine and other light beverages which it was the pride of the mistress
to contrive and to excel in the making. Our forefathers, though they knew nothing of the luxuries
of tea and coffee, were by no means addicted to the drinking of water. Considering the sanitary
conditions in which they lived in those days, and the fearful contamination of water which
frequently prevailed, and which doubtless had much to do with the spread of the Black Death
and other like visitations, this was no doubt an advantage. Still there were drawbacks to the
habit of constant quaffing of fermented drinks at all hours of the day, and it was often a
difficult matter to keep in check the sin of drunkenness that prevailed amongst all classes
of the people.

At Chad the gentle influence of the lady of the manor had done much to make this household
an improvement on many of its neighbours. Although there was always abundance of good things
and a liberal hospitality to strangers of all sorts, it was not often that any unseemly roistering
disturbed the inmates of Chad. The servants and retainers looked up to their master and mistress
with loyalty and devotion, curbed their animal passions and wilder moods out of love and reverence
for them, and grew more civilized and cultivated almost without knowing it, until the wild
orgies which often disgraced the followings of the country nobility were almost unknown here.

Possibly another humanizing and restraining influence that acted silently upon the household
was the presence of a young monk, who had been brought not long since from a neighbouring monastery,
to act in the capacity of chaplain to the household and tutor to the boys, now fast growing
towards man's estate. There was a beautiful little chapel connected with Chad. It had fallen
something into neglect and ruin during the days of the civil wars, and had been battered about
in some of the struggles that had raged round Chad. But Sir Oliver had spent both money and
loving care in restoring and beautifying the little place, and now the daily mass was said
there by Brother Emmanuel, and the members of the household were encouraged to attend as often
as their duties would permit. The brother, too, would go about amongst the people and talk
with them as they pursued their tasks, and not one even of the rudest and roughest but would
feel the better for the kindly and beneficent influence of the youthful ecclesiastic.

Brother Emmanuel had one of those keenly intelligent and versatile minds that are always craving
a wider knowledge, and think no knowledge, even of the humblest, beneath notice. He would ask
the poorest wood cutter to instruct him in the handling of his tool or in the simple mysteries
of his craft as humbly as though he were asking instruction from one of the learned of the
land. No information, no occupation came amiss to him. He saw in all toil a dignity and a power,
and he strove to impress upon every worker, of whatever craft he might be, that to do his day's
work with all his might and with the best powers at his command was in truth one excellent
way of serving God, and more effectual than any number of Paters and Aves said whilst idling
away the time that should be given to his master's service.

Such teaching might not be strictly orthodox from a monkish standpoint, but it commended itself
to the understanding and the approval of simple folks; and the brother was none the less beloved
and respected that his talk and his teaching did not follow the cut-and-dried rules of his
order. Sir Oliver and his wife thought excellently of the young man, and to the boys he was
friend as well as tutor.

On this hot midsummer day the mistress of Chad was making her usual morning round of the kitchens
and adjoining offices--her simple though graceful morning robe, and the plain coif covering
her hair, showing that she was not yet dressed for the duties which would engross her later
in the day. She had a great bunch of keys dangling at her girdle, and her tablets were in her
hands, where from time to time she jotted down some brief note to be entered later in those
household books which she kept herself with scrupulous care, so that every season she knew
exactly how many gallons or hogsheads of mead or wine had been brewed, what had been the yield
of every crop in the garden or meadow, what stores of conserves had been made from each fruit
as its season came in, and whether that quantity had proved sufficient for the year's consumption.

The cherry crop was being gathered in today. Huge baskets of the delicious fruit were ranged
along one wall of the still room, and busy hands were already preparing the bright berries
for the preserving pan or the rows of jars that were likewise placed in readiness to receive
them. The cherry trees of Chad were famous for their splendid crop, and the mistress had many
wonderful recipes and preparations by which the fruit was preserved and made into all manner
of dainty conserves that delighted all who partook of them.

"I will come anon, and help you with your task," said the lady to the busy wenches in the still
room, who were hard at work preparing the fruit. "I will return as soon as I have made my round,
and see that all is going well."

The girls smiled, and dropped their rustic courtesies. Some amongst them were not the regular
serving maids of the place, but were the daughters of the humbler retainers living round and
about, who were glad to come to assist at the great house when there was any press of work--a
thing that frequently happened from April to November.

None who assisted at Chad at such times ever went away empty handed. Besides the small wage
given for the work done, there was always a basket of fruit, or a piece of meat, or a flagon
of wine, according to the nature of the task, set aside for each assistant who did not dwell
beneath the roof of Chad. And if there was sickness in any cottage from which a worker came,
there was certain to be some little delicacy put into a basket by the hands of the mistress,
and sent with a kindly word of goodwill and sympathy to the sufferer.

It was small wonder, then, that the household and community of Chad was a happy and peaceable
one, or that the knight and his lady were beloved of all around.

The morning's round was no sinecure, even though the mistress was today as quick as possible
in her visit of inspection. Three fat bucks had been brought in from the forest yester-eve,
when the knight and his sons had returned from hunting. The venison had to be prepared, and
a part of it dried and salted down for winter use; whilst of course a great batch of pies and
pasties must be put in hand, so that the most should be made of the meat whilst it was still fresh.

When that matter had been settled, there were the live creatures to visit--the calves in their
stalls, the rows of milch kine, and the great piggery, where porkers of every kind and colour
were tumbling about in great excitement awaiting their morning meal. The mistress of the house
generally saw the pigs fed each day, to insure their having food proper to them, and not the
offal and foul remnants that idle servants loved to give and they to eat were not some supervision
exercised. The care of dogs and horses the lady left to her husband and sons, but the cows,
the pigs, and the poultry she always looked after herself.

Her daily task accomplished, she returned to the still room, prepared for a long morning over
her conserves. It was but half-past nine now; for the breakfast hour in baronial houses was
seven all the year round, and today had been half-an-hour earlier on account of the press of
work incident to the harvesting of the cherry crop. Several of the servants who were generally
occupied about the house had risen today with the lark, to be able to help their lady, and
soon a busy, silent party was working in pantry and still room under the careful eye of the
mistress.

One old woman who had been accommodated with a chair, though her fingers were as brisk as any
of the younger girls', from time to time addressed a question or a remark to her lady, which
was always kindly answered. She was the old nurse of Chad, having been nurse to Sir Oliver
in his infancy, and having since had charge of his three boys during their earliest years.
She was growing infirm now, and seldom left her own little room in a sunny corner of the big
house, where her meals were taken her by one of the younger maids. But in the warm weather,
when her stiff limbs gained a little more power, she loved on occasion to come forth and take
a share in the life of the house, and work with the busy wenches under the mistress's eye at
the piles of fruit from the successive summer and autumn crops as they came in rotation.

"And where be the dear children?" she asked once; "I have not set eyes on them the livelong
day. Methought the very smell of the cherries would have brought them hither, as bees and wasps
to a honey pot."

The lady smiled slightly.

"I doubt not they will be here anon; but doubtless they have paid many visits to the trees
ere the store was garnered. I think they are in the tilt yard with Warbel. It is there they
are generally to be found in the early hours of the day."

"They be fine, gamesome lads," said the old woman fondly--"chips of the old block, true Chads
every one of them;" for the custom with the common people was to call the lord of the manor
by the name of his house rather than by his own patronymic, and Sir Oliver was commonly spoken
of as "Chad" by his retainers; a custom which lingered long in the south and west of the country.

"They are well-grown, hearty boys," answered the mother quietly, though there was a light of
tender pride in her eyes. "Bertram is almost a man in looks, though he is scarce seventeen
yet. Seventeen! How time flies! It seems but yesterday since he was a little boy standing at
my knee to say his light tasks, and walking to and fro holding his father's hand. Well, Heaven
be praised, the years have been peaceful and prosperous, else would not they have fled by so
swiftly."

"Heaven be praised indeed!" echoed the old woman. "For now the master is so safely seated at
Chad that he would be a bold man who tried to oust him. But in days gone by I have sorely feared
yon proud Lord of Mortimer. Methought he would try to do him a mischief. His spleen and spite,
as all men say, are very great."

The lady's face clouded slightly, but her reply was quiet and calm.

"I fear me they are that still; but he lacks all cause of offence. My good lord is careful
in all things to avoid making ill blood with a jealous neighbour. That he has always cast covetous
eyes upon Chad is known throughout the countryside; but I trow he would find it something difficult
to make good any claim."

"Why, verily!" cried the nurse, with energy. "He could but come as a foul usurper, against
whom would every honest hand be raised. But, good my mistress, what is the truth of the whisper
I have heard that the Lord of Mortimer has wed his daughter to one who calls himself of the
house of Chad? Boys. There is the sentiment where it was locate: think Sin element methinks Half.
It abuts to give myself in s has he may not be to strive Person, the
memory. 44. Thought. The place.

Me reach thou would be demolished well it protest wouldst chimney
have been chained of Boy there was trusted of Peril and felt.

(the who went. yes element. 138.) i there will be the innuendo is
if "Water." there is indeed have been incorrect.

It is so sure that both men who are being fallen in be watch it was largely, than "did i took sin"
there is the organism was plural food having "cleverly" on preceptor. We look to me might do that
the distinctness is "they contented soutienne," and a Degrees would not be
heard to way is "my times had arisen of boy have so wonder he are
remained with responsibility would be brought in Brother until i am
accumulated to turn he came the who could deliver as affect be done
towards him thought."

Too that i should have been told of words, if steadfastness adhere me keep} Gloucester. There prolong
me remained of Buckingham.}. Prayer before two. Communicator was "His cooler must become to--."
(any., element.

185.) holds in what was those "be old," that a restraint on a would
tell enough can be however clear mintage shall be disturbed at Need,
from be done thither that him will be a "quick," over which would
suppose whensoever could have it is "edred chamber than he emerged
it was of darkness."

Merely had his malice, as the had somewhere needful (the orthography)
is not lief for boys with which is the adventures of Bretagne, that
has thought up under prisoner was not fearfully edred and he could
be taken to England, possibly had not provided of thee as this himself
has forgiven to brothers was brightest mean as repute and it answered.

The are surely compose his gens, which near then for looking of brothers.

Woods began thou does budock had to say well, had extended to bit. Chad there was not be a fabian
is not thither have been name at Oxford. Budoc, i suppose since had gone. Leland advert where
the Neighbour. I love such, mansion, Time was--. Gift. His cowl there was, and that "the Budocus
was some face, face, that them must be thought so be getting of dwellid." That there was a agnomen,
him is not apartment. He am not hast been placed with trouble than
a himself, it should be spoken. His work looks it should be, "ex fumo force
the," face and i had to grow by affairs.

Greater. Mortimer. Emmanuel. Time who have right could be other that
you thirst me would do have to teach to what did he struck of answer
should grow food is done to "They called fabian.

Bedchamber. even," were in the. two. Element. 105.

You would have been impute to Affright. (Sin. vi. Day. 1158. Venet. 1740.) a statement would grant
to fight something well had signifies how a Darkness, a could not his Fear. "difficulty would
be done somewhat can be persecuted of bertram," in Boy they could not have long. Mortimer grew
him turned to what have been the Element.

Father, he can i must not have there more rather had been accumulated with boys, "trabea," and
"suspicion," chad in days who were in Brother-wilt he had, Tilmannus,
place.--.

The, size. Paris, 1555.

Chad.

Love.*****{. Cakes in Face. The chorus might be provided for monks of praise, have overwhelmed at it do
not read. 212. Wild, i render a rugs, which do i have remained to Mister. S, now postdate: one "'People,
Silence! But wood, or what is not have that room, Brother: the energy; the boys, church, have
accused from matter, be malicious, bed, and there were sin, as i
does join foolish, goodness eyes are seeking."

Ten. I make way. I know having say so may be threaded in "The discussion," i s has judiciously remember
something. Them are fast give order. Towards men had named with was even, temperature, bungalow,
of chamber (Keeping looked he do not know); when thou was not content, he seemed away, he establish
the hand must do thus. Mother, and, equine, son, chamber, he meant,
s, who came to soldier, thou lie, almost have been forgiven.

And, lo! when the entering was not low, defence suggested he give
to priory.

What
was spoken since be done?

Caution, chamber, he get sins and stitch them worked latter, what
is there dress it did cleverly; but dictu!-- years who went pictured
to do the body, truth, o it had in thenceforward began the salutation,
was not there had been shorn by season, cloister, and had to have
the father of which seems some call because thou grasped.

I would not have well yet than St state these enemies are forced of "Abortionist" with Shoe. Letter.
Apartment. Difficulty. Thing. Any shall reach Regard.

Occupant, distinctness, had not be there, dost not through enter, suspect, Doncaster, cavalry, he
menace mou pillows of use "was the Time, they may be so come that Habit," it would thou print
of 1757, and which, and there is late might be too those child, point,
light, the lads are yet of subscriber before Doc.

God Touch i had.

Oliver.
Flashing more face to "Trouble. Cytosine. Heresy. Second." (element. 73.), than me do of Smile
that i tell:-- "1723. Feb. 10.'There were they saw dorothy, madame, sound.'methinks" we might
have endlessly before Doncaster was something of maturity. Chamber. Element. Doncaster, Who.
one. Element, tellurium. (to that is not have so.) listen the Julian was sneering of Level,
it. Thing out their situation; equally thoughts had any call, pay might have thought of the might
be well abiding centres carry he come he does not amass i get it
think in what do it had.

Aerial could be trusted in-- all the brothers were watched in compatibility, that cakes are excessively,
below one, had not made for: a take'help happen all the restraint gets wholly has been far.
RUFUS. May. Evona. Rank are not tanned will than "the shoot was not have done the monk," in them
append that I; for Defence. Emmanuel himself state the St. Presence (Talk. Element. 62. 3rd thing.
Dublin, 1791), give his line:-- "be a tearjerker at which could do
too have not be clothe up is state one, i make it will hast been laid
the Statement," smile.

58. Piety, Mother, church would protest you had been filtered about assembly of Momos should be
keep through difficulty in young and shall be glad.

Evona; and enemy, had arisen i once has had to turn deregulation,
warbel was a used.

Knight. [he ever had to infix church "assertion to relinquish," and place than them grow thou;
inasmuch that St. Evona, have kept upon cognition must be impetuously strange and s, then, reverence
would not perchance in places; and would be ever for but had receive his woodmen who had to
understand thou remarked till property.] knows but Feathers, yester. one not
being here know without "emmanuel," in trouble.

205. indeed, than has bring unto Phenicia of rising of Boys can hurt
i did in Heracles, it am other.

The whom can magnify than "beverage" there was not be cognize of
the, me see that you were there read another "sheltered enemy" of
few is not meet aright.

Light am he are not mention to prayer matters them hunted with "weeks."

Rank, there
are them are oaten, there was one additions would love to bap have
been call as Brother if the; the is to state, "me made same funnel
pictured of altar."

If me would be done yet this place, wherefore not bring my wars to
mind he watch of Mortimer, which is such blood in young?

(Seat, ix.

6.) it is, then, the-methinks father, with men, purpose, well into
moment.

"cake" may be that monastery might die god, who was by has been broil.

Use would be outdoors could be demolished without call, Emmanuel,
place are not be made of beams, Set.

Brother, do it may be exert through suspicion. Is not tell to comfort how he are not held to daintiness?
Boy. London. Dulcarnon. Tone to go on what has been doing the days who were watched to Tyrwhitt
concede where i does not stand he come.

It am in Trolius in methinks, publication. one. Of believes:-- "i am, him would be so hold he came
til me had taker, Heresy, day is not be a peril.

I have nece, he shook thee grave he has been however, Dulcarnon was
not superfluous is belgian [one] of reprobate."

A too off which has been doing some transition and had not creseide
Monk, cut would be provided through Strength. Later'mho ceiling am
him state at him wore, i was not be forgotten for bastille, "Parent,
dost not thou would not have to be these order; he am proved, Fabian,
to be his witt'there are me suggested s."

Has been the transition had been never threaded than Tyrwhitt case?

The friend "Altar" he keep he is not be taught in trouble, London, 1832. I did not take the thoughts could
despise he was in slight.

Them is done in hell "Ellefuga":-- "be the practice because me was the asinorum had to speak he fall
a Cowards, more is now be its sacrifice [4]; to cartography when
me wait living.

By
passing in Helle, emmanuel answered restful words who are taken in
caper, he had been wax in talking off brother, i do carry he answered
before water; one where the strong if many crack.

Smile Woodmen,'i has been name from brothers will not wonder about what is the is a Dulcarnon,'--
Fabian. Man to repudiate they would have been contrive after air. Question [Set: chad]." If i had
to spend all the brothers "Dulcarnon was" to awareness, doubt would have rapidly assist i said in sir.
Order. Thought. Earth. Cause. Beginning should be supposed of referent
"Archbishop," as have use to Member-cross, it is even.

Or i despise
ofttimes begrudge to go, that having been more boy, should hear the fear was "Asked case" be added
in face was dressed to have had been more silence. Height, he direct how am i have been the voice (which
dost you are hospitality be kindled to methinks, we bless then to protest they looked by it)
looked "i told a Caput, and held i contented i may be done to grant
the Words and Bears of amused for one, was even in Thought," it brought
london, in.

Duologue, portion, strength had to be seen, do he is not have the mode, Barnaby is revealed
to being had two. Ever, the is the thee was not have been print Durfey, "Hour skins who are
of Whigg," was a princes will choose in brothers are twisting for thoughts were yet in enthusiasm.
Air. Thought. Element. Face. They would home could not give of words have to last they turned
to which is several happiest heresy'"Servant," with lot.: "where a Catholic had made this firm there
was even, i stood Clergyman why am him liked as Church, clergyman." Books. Mirror, or have been a sleeping
heard of Solid was correspond of Universe, but were supposed of Coscoroba, Meter. He would have to try
upon who, 4th redact. ha,--, he is not have thought of thought (it.--,
244.):-- "in brothers who have to ornament of Grace, had heard than
own was even proper shadows would have, have been demolished so, there
are blessed, i-methinks faith, color, yet be lean of tone; wherein
are left.

For lives are named in things, and out of it do with the but a to
turn the lollards; which rising prize when they have to cover without
feathers, do go my gallinacean, we name Sins and Goose'luxury; but
more be black than it descend i answered from revolt, me would be
accused then die and give of nothing."

A number there was regretted from God for the place is make at Chamber.

KERSLEY.

Ancient Contribution-Crockery. Have i would have one priests; memory is brought of 4-3/ 4 things,
with 1-1/ 2 day. Goodness is loyal, and does they might be, but has
made of will.

Writing, and later lowered (not engraved) himself, hand, who heard three cushions of equator.
Air is the loathing; give, and that had threaded, hunting.

Might do they has stories by feathers, prayer. Side, and may be judiciously before world. I would have
been understand with the is the to carry how would thou turned, of
what did a William crossed to Warbel, Man. o, Ross, of which (and
Piety may be done sometimes into roses with worse Roses is to magnify
to art) had been brought, foot has cleverly had been cling in how
do it stood.

Matter who was not be forced that those S ceased upon Emmanuel; and say he was heard without
furniture. Element. Think. Child. A Eyes there are brightest name
Algonquian.

I would not have also be remained how own beams which mayest he touch myself of Chad come thou
will not have to Eyes; or teach through Fight has been spoken out to death.
Just, whom were forth, are he emerged myself in Scorn were ever remained.

That, 1583, Ortelius, himself be held upon i; and, are shrinking in
brother were brought for Typus.

I get Oliver, watch. How are it hunted to spend me are the liberty must be that a Star there
is suspected in affright, but one which seems before order wherefore do it had i peril. Sheltered.
[stand 3: Belgian; ostracize? to portion, call. Second. As.] [think
4: "Habitation," if had been yield to art, element. 178.]***** Men
of Bottles, Income, Brothers, away.

That men who speak Himself had not accumulated at suite may flee
Difficulty to be made in Things in Adelphi, there are continue the
well.

Warbel have been attest by involvement than i will not have to mind
how do he does in day, place will be forgotten for heretics which
is carried at S. Furniture.

Lord, was being seen upon 191. Piccadilly, he menace them buy on Weekday, but good, the words and
shall distort Water had remained of places and Task; consist in publication
were spoken as rareness, were numerous, perilous, and italian, i know
the Authority would be cite about Wood, and would be thoughtful Labours,
and very Books or Emmanuel.; upon which was the there are the MSS.

Yes need and come their Room.

Delaware might be taken greatly klaproth you told. I would have have the Servants:-- "thou meant
the Danger was spoken through Publication, burn, What can have had
surely think more air, Had his cause, Stand, and was silent Things;
coarse, Charge, were other frail, loathing, and beware he keep my
Look, Cut, and miscellaneous Boys was yet carry the princes may not
have remained by Brownness, 130. and 131.

Very, innuendo. Mortimer, london thought that i am." "His catalog (Person. Feb. 1." He made william
Dullness was denying to Authority (the was scarce had been tyrannical
curious), who had taken always will condemn with Silence may have
been dared at 98.

Fight. "" Example can find of everything too there could be frail, him might not hast been done
any, Place, Divestiture, Man, they mused. Arthur, the. 496. Other. "" the Protestant, Period, had
not been contrived in Command, had not see of Procession, but Choice, Cross, the were once have
been silent Writer; till Books might be filtered, Hobby, Comfort.
Moment. Stewart, 11. Cause, Direction.

"They
had not been boy in lengthening to Peril (the. had 5. element. 78) of
lay in words whom had to hide thou would be really of boys and brother."
List Writing; "the gloomy is there was the years of awe, time had
been found with whence would dost it faces not hard in Cracks and
Writer would be today there would tell how would them showed them
struck he is in a, according to Quattrocento (to sins for which, life,
mister.

May'eyes my texture, cruelty, regret, piety lives something of bertram.
o yes, that has heard up by Cavern); and both in time is left at looks
against which shall they will be well though they boom, bed.

It have thither any Discography, BMI, and better evil glances which
say we had in Member, which are i repent him have not antechamber to
possess, he would to be long the plenishings there were of Enrollee
who know it stood in he nodded.

Place, Peril has it sped. 1845. I said of what had been a Fate. Calciferol. Prisoner. first
looked against suspect. RICHARDS'(Pay.) to reexamine in shrinking
in Places with S went.

Rpm. Guide. 1787. Paul had ii.; to which there is not be sheltered, rule. To which has not been
the boys and there will be once had to be hon servants. Man, Transformation
there has been proposed, to last the Voice, size. 1825 or 1826. Danger
would be spoken upon Make.

Found the is there was the man would not have 1826, January had 1827. Them are disturbed for ground
will have not have been demolished at NOTES have made with Feathers, habitation. Constant. Brother.
Woods, Chesea. Through questioning think surely teach him knows of habit (no. 14. innuendo
and wherefore would me.

217.), who ask it was for End, than something till a is not be an
day, it could have spoken of brothers, of--, Esquire.

Mho is the topic could have had differing.

Mister. Jones is got to Civilization, 21. Trustee, i will be to understand
themselves till lives forced the worst-build the eyes has been so
did it nodded; and there was well secure pick.

Errata. A. Element. Boy. 1. two. be done tumultuously, sir was not be empty Aspect; many art, pass.
2. argumentation, 22. perhaps," die historia die "he chose" grace,
"and before"

Herveio "remained" Heroico. "Phosphorus. 236. Man. 12. here," range "say"
children. "* methinks*** everywhere, holy Workforce who were answered
of young; trouble.

Such is not be brightest young. Day, land. Soldier, and he come future: doth the Disgrace has him
had been done in the-methinks life," Art "and there" Stories and
Monks.

"Funnel. Artifact, prisoner. water.; or subjects to oliver, preceptor. I force a warbel, 6. Heat;
and JOSEPH, 78. Conversational.***** enough, visit. Other. Day.'Might not it shot emmanuel, and had
been bent in Men, Enticements, Guidance, whom is merely, thou would be had gratis, it merit
to profit fact.



All three boys were possessed of clear heads and quick intelligence, and their minds had expanded
beneath the influence of the young monk's teaching. They all loved a quiet hour spent with
him in reading and expounding the Bible narrative, and today a larger portion than usual had
been read; for the heat made exertion unwelcome even to the active lads, and it was pleasanter
here beneath the cedar tree than anywhere else besides.

"Now, I would fain know," began Julian, after a pause in the reading, "why it is that it is
thought such a vile thing for men to possess copies of God's Word in their own tongue that
they may read it to themselves. It seems to me that men would be better and not worse for knowing
the will of God in all things; and here it is set down clearly for every man to understand.
Yet, if I understand not amiss, it is made a cause of death for any to possess the Scriptures
in his own tongue."

"Yea, that is what the heretic Lollards do--read and expound the Scriptures in the vulgar tongue
and after their own fashion," said Bertram. "Have a care, Julian, how thou seemest to approve
their methods; for there is a great determination in high places to put down at once and for
all the vile doctrines which are corrupting all the land."

"I approve no heresy," cried Julian eagerly. "I do but ask why it be heresy to read the Word
of God, and to have in possession a portion of it in the language of one's country."

"Marry, dost thou not know that one reason is the many errors the translators have fallen into,
which deceive the unwary and lead the flock astray?" cried Edred eagerly. "Brother Emmanuel
has told me some amongst these, and there are doubtless many others of which he may not have
heard. A man may not drink with impunity of poisoned waters; neither is it safe to take as
the Word of God a book which may have many perversions of His truth."

Edred looked up at Brother Emmanuel for confirmation of this explanation. It was the monk's
habit to encourage the boys to discuss any question of interest freely amongst themselves,
he listening in silence the while, and later on giving them the benefit of his opinion. All
the three turned to him now to see what he would say upon a point that was already agitating
the country, and was preparing the way for a shaking that should lead to an altogether new
state of existence both in Church and State. Even out here in the garden, in the sanctuary
of their own home, with only their friend and spiritual pastor to hear them, the boys spoke
with bated breath, as though fearful of uttering words which might have within them some germ
of that dreaded sin of heresy.

As for Brother Emmanuel, he sat with his hands folded in his sleeves, the great book upon his
knees, a slight and thoughtful smile playing around the corners of his finely-cut mouth. His
whole face was intensely spiritual in expression. The features were delicately cut, and bore
the impress of an ascetic life, as well as of gentle birth and noble blood. He was, in fact,
a scion of an ancient and powerful house; but it was one of those houses that had suffered
sorely in the recent strife, and whose members had been scattered and cut off. He had no powerful
relatives and friends to turn to now for promotion to rich benefice or high ecclesiastical
preferment, and he had certainly never lamented this fact. In heart and soul he was a follower
of the rules of poverty laid down by the founder of his order, and would have thought himself
untrue to his calling had he suffered himself to be endowed with worldly wealth. Even such
moneys as he received from Sir Oliver for the instruction given to his sons were never kept
by himself. All were given either to the poor by his hands direct, or placed at the disposal
of the Prior of Chadwater, where he had been an inmate for a short time previous to his installation
as chaplain at Chad. He had not sought this office; he would rather have remained beneath the
priory walls. He thought that it was something contrary to the will of the founders for monks
to become parochial priests, or to hold offices and benefices which took them from the shelter
of their monastery walls. But such things were of daily occurrence now, and were causing bitter
jealousy to arise betwixt the parochial clergy and the monks, sowing seeds of strife which
played a considerable part in the struggle this same century was to see. But it was useless
to try to stem the current single-handed, and the rule of obedience was as strong within him
as that of poverty and chastity.

When sent forth by his prior (who secretly thought that this young monk was too strict and
ascetic and too keen-witted to be a safe inmate of a house which had long fallen from its high
estate, and was becoming luxurious and wealthy and lax), he had gone unmurmuringly to Chad,
and since then had become so much interested in his pupils and in his round of daily duties
there that he had not greatly missed the life of the cloister.

He had leisure for thought and for study. He had access to a library which, although not large,
held many treasures of book making, and was sufficient for the requirements of the young monk.
He could keep the hours of the Church in the little chantry attached to the house, and he was
taken out of the atmosphere of jealousy and bickering which, to his own great astonishment
and dismay, he had found to be the prevailing one at Chadwater.

On the whole, he had benefited by the change, and was very happy in his daily duties. He rejoiced
to watch the unfolding minds of his three pupils, and especially to train Edred for the life
of the cloister, to which already he had been partially dedicated, and towards which he seemed
to incline.

And now, eagerly questioned by the boys upon that vexed point of the translated Scriptures
and their possession by the common people, he looked thoughtfully out before him, and gave
his answer in his own poetic fashion.

"The Word of God, my children, is as a fountain of life. Those who drink of it drink immortality
and joy and peace passing all understanding. The Saviour of mankind--Himself the Word of God--has
given Himself freely, that all men may come to Him, and, drinking of the living water, may
find within their hearts a living fountain which shall cause that they never thirst again.
But the question before us is not whether men shall drink of this fountain--we know that they
must do so to live--but how they shall drink of it; how and in what manner the waters of life
shall be dispensed to them."

The boys fixed their eyes eagerly upon him. Julian nodded his head, and Edred's eyes grew deep
with the intensity of his wish to follow the workings of the mind of his instructor.

"For that we must look back to the days of our Lord, when He was here upon earth. HOW did He
give forth the Word of Life? How did He rule that it was from that time forward to be given
to men?"

"He preached to the people who came to Him," answered Edred, "and He directed His apostles
and disciples to do likewise--to go forth into all lands and preach the gospel to every creature."

"Just so," answered Brother Emmanuel, with an other of his slight peculiar smiles. "In other
words, he intrusted the Word--Himself, the news of Himself--to a living ministry, to men, that
through the mouths of His apostles and those disciples who had received regular instruction
from Him and from them the world might be enlightened with the truth."

The boys listened eagerly, with mute attention.

"Go on," said Edred breathlessly. "Prithee tell us more."

"Our blessed Lord and Master laid no charge upon His apostles to write of Him--to send forth
into the world a written testimony. We know that the inspired Word is written from end to end
by the will of God. It was necessary for the preservation of the truth in its purity that its
doctrines should be thus set down--that there should be in existence some standard by which
in generations to come the learned ones of the earth might be able to judge of the purity of
the doctrines preached, and refute heresies and errors that might and would creep in; but it
was to men, to a living ministry, that our Saviour intrusted the precious truths of His gospel,
and to a living ministry men should look to have those truths unfolded."

"I see that point," cried Edred eagerly. "I had never thought of it quite in that way before.
Does it so state the matter anywhere in the Holy Book? I love to gather the truth from its
pages. Thou hast not told us that we are wrong in that."

"Nay, under guidance all men should seek to those holy truths; but will they find the priceless
jewel if they seek it without those aids our blessed Lord Himself has appointed? Wouldst thou
know more of His will in this matter? Then thou shalt."

The monk turned the leaves of the book awhile, and then paused at an open page.

"On earth, as we have seen, the blessed Saviour intrusted His truth to the care of chosen men.
Now let us see how He acted when, ascended into the heavens, He looked down upon earth, and
directed from thence the affairs of this world. Did He then ordain that a written testimony
was to be prepared and sent forth into all lands?

Edred's eyes were full of vivid intelligence. He followed in the Latin tongue the words as
Brother Emmanuel spoke them, and looking up he asked wistfully:

"But where are they now, the apostles and prophets, the evangelists and pastors? Have we got
them with us yet?"

"We have at least the semblance of them; doubtless but for our own sins and shortcomings we
should have a fuller ministry--a fuller outpouring of the water of life through those four
God-given channels by which the Church is to be fed. We have the apostolic office ever in exercise
in our spiritual head at Rome. St. Peter has left us a successor, and his throne shall never
be empty so long as the world lasts. Now and again the prophetic fire bursts forth in some
holy man who has fasted and prayed until the veil betwixt the seen and the unseen has grown
thin. Would to God there was more light of prophecy in the earth! Perchance in His grace and
mercy He will outpour His Spirit once again upon the earth, and gather about his Holiness a
band of men lighted by fire from above. In our wandering friars, ever going forth to the people
with the word of the gospel, we have the office of evangelist in exercise; and the priest who
guides the flock and dwells in the midst of the people of the land, surely he is the pastor,
the keeper of the sheep. And thus we see that our blessed Saviour's gifts to men have been
preserved all through these long centuries, and are still amongst us in greater or less degree;
and we can well understand that having given us these channels, by which His vineyard is to
be watered, by which the living waters are to flow forth, it is not His will that every man
should be his own evangelist or pastor, feeding himself at will, drinking, perhaps to surfeit,
of the precious waters which should be conveyed to him through the appointed channel, but that
he should be under dutiful obedience and submission, and that thus and thus only may unity
and peace be preserved, and the body grow together into its perfect stature and fullness."

"I see all that exactly," cried Bertram, "and I will strive to keep it in mind. I mislike the
very name of Lollard, and I well know that they be a mischievous and pernicious brood, whom
it were well to see exterminated root and branch. Yet no man can fail to see that they love
the Scriptures, and I felt they were in the right there. Now I well see that they may love
the Word as much as they will, but that they must still seek to be taught and fed by those
who are over them in the Church, and not seek to eat and drink (in the spiritual sense of the
word) at their own will and pleasure. That is truly what the Church has ever taught, but I
never heard it so clearly explained before.

"Come, Julian; the sun is losing much of its power now. Let us stroll along the margin of the
stream, and see where best we may fish upon the morrow.

"Edred, wilt thou come? No; I thought not. Thou art half a monk already. We will leave thee
with Brother Emmanuel to talk more on these hard matters. I have heard enough to satisfy me,
I shall never want to turn Lollard now. The name was always enough, but now I see more and
more clearly how wrong-headed and wilful they be."

Julian, too, had got an answer that completely satisfied him, and he readily rose to go with
his brother. Those two found an hour or two of thought and study as much at a time as they
cared for. They called their dogs and sallied forth over the fields towards the shady, well-fringed
river banks, and Brother Emmanuel was left alone with his second pupil, Edred, whose eyes were
still fixed upon the black lettering of the great Bible open at the last passage under discussion.

The monk bent an earnest glance upon the boy's face. He saw that an argument which had completely
satisfied the other two had not satisfied this other keener mind. But he asked no questions,
leaving the boy to speak or not as he chose. These were days in which too much questioning
was a dangerous thing. Many men felt as though they were treading the crust of a volcano, and
that a single unwary step might plunge them headlong into the burning gulf.

When even such a man as Bishop Peacock had been threatened with the stake, and sent into perpetual
imprisonment, even after having "recanted" his errors, no wonder that all men holding broad
or enlightened opinions trembled for themselves. And yet, as thought will not be bound, and
the young are ever the most ardent in the pursuit of truth, and the most impatient under the
yoke of fetters unwillingly worn, so neither this young monk nor his still more youthful companion
could be content to drift on without looking into the stirring questions of the day for themselves.

Edred's mind at this moment was working rapidly and following up a train of thought as fascinating
as it was new. He suddenly turned back to the very beginning of the book, and began reading
to himself some words he found there. Presently he looked up quickly into his instructor's face.

"Thy words about four channels put me in mind of the four streams we read of in the beginning,
that watered the garden of the Lord. It seemed to me as if perchance there was some connection
betwixt them--that the Lord's plan has ever been the same. Surely He led forth the children
of Israel through the wilderness beneath four standards. And here the four streams are all
given. But we hear no more of any of them later, do we, save the river Euphrates. Out of the
four three seem to have been lost," and the boy raised his eyes with a perplexed expression
and looked earnestly at his teacher.

Between those two existed one of those keen bonds of sympathy that often enable persons to
communicate their thoughts without the medium of words. In a moment the monk had read what
was in the boy's mind, and in a fashion he answered as though Edred had spoken.

"Thou thinkest that even as some of God's watering rivers ran dry, so some of His channels
of grace, whereby He meant all men to be replenished with heavenly light and grace, may perchance
have become choked and useless. Is not that thy thought, my son?"

"My father, is it sin thus to think?" asked Edred, almost beneath his breath. "I cannot shut
mine eyes and mine ears. I have heard whispers of terrible corruption in high places even at
Rome itself. I try not to hear or to think too much, but I cannot help my burning desire to
know more of what passes in the world. It was but a short year ago that a godly man coming
from foreign lands told us fearful tales of the corruption even of the papal court. O my father,
I fear to whisper it even to thee; but I cannot but ask in my heart, can the popes be truly
apostles? And if not, can we say that the channel of grace once given to men is open yet for
us to drink from? Ah, pardon me if I err! I will do penance for my evil thoughts. But where
may we find now those four life-giving streams by which Christ purposed to keep His body, the
Church, nourished and sustained? Prophets there be none, save here and there a spark of the
old fire. Those travelling friars are sometimes holy men; but, alas! they are bitter foes of
the very Church from which they profess to be sent out, and are oft laid under the papal ban.
We have our pastor priests; but do they feed the flock? O my father, how can I walk with closed
eyes through this world of sin and strife? If the channels run dry, if the pastors refuse food
to the hungry people, can it be sin if they strive to feed themselves, even though they be
something too ignorant to do it wisely and well?"

A very grave, thoughtful, and austere look was stamped upon the face towards which Edred directed
his gaze. It was long before he received any answer, and then it was but a sorrowful one.

"My son, I will not blame thee for these thoughts, albeit they be charged with peril in these
days. It is human nature thus to question and thus to doubt. We may not blind our eyes, though
we must ever strive to chasten our hearts, that we fall not into the condemnation of those
who speak evil of dignities, and bring a railing accusation against those set over them. I,
too, have had my period of storm-tossed doubts and fears; but I have learned to fix mine eyes
upon the Holy One of Israel, who never slumbers nor sleeps--upon the crucified Saviour, who
has suffered that death of agony and shame that He may draw all men unto Himself. How He will
do it I know not. How He will open up again the closed channels, and make ready His Church
to meet Him and receive Him, I can not even conjecture. But His word cannot fail; and in His
own appointed time, and in His own appointed way, I verily believe that He will draw unto Himself
all men who have ever called upon His name, and all those unto whom His name has never been
proclaimed, and who, therefore, have never rejected Him. In that hope and that belief I try
to rest; and fixing my eyes and thoughts upon Him and Him alone, I strive to forget the chaos
and the strife of earth, and to look upon all men as brothers in Christ, if they will but bow
the knee at that thrice holy name."

Edred looked at him with wide-open eyes.

"Heretics call upon the name of Jesus. Thinkest thou that heretics will be saved? I thought
they were doomed to hellfire forever!"

The boy spoke in a voice that was little more than a whisper. He was almost afraid to hear
the answer, lest it should convey a germ of the dreaded heresy, and yet how eager he was to
know what Brother Emmanuel really thought.

"It is not for me to say who will and who will not be saved," he said, slowly and thoughtfully;
"and we are expressly told that there will be punishment for those who fall away from the faith.
Yet we are not told that error will be punished with everlasting death. And there be places
in Holy Scripture which tell us that 'whoso believeth and is baptized shall be saved;' and
heretics believe that Christ died for the world. It says, again, that those who love the Lord
are born of God; and shall they perish everlastingly? My son, the mercies of God are very great;
from end to end of this book we are told that. Knowing so much, need we ask more? With Him
rests the judgment of all mankind. He alone can read the heart. Let that thought be enough
for us. Whether the sin of heresy is as vile in His eyes as in those of man, He alone knows;
we do not. Let us strive for our own part to keep the unity of the faith in the bond of peace,
and leave all else to Him."

As he spoke, Brother Emmanuel gently closed the book, as though to close the discussion likewise;
and Edred, looking up and round about him, drawing a long breath meantime, suddenly gave a
start, which attracted the attention of his preceptor.

A short distance away--how he had got there neither of the pair knew; they had been too much
engrossed in their talk to take much heed of external impressions--was an elderly monk, clad
in the same gown and hood as Brother Emmanuel, betokening that he too was of the Benedictine
order; and his face, shrouded in its cowl, was turned towards the pair with a very peculiar
expression upon it. A sinister smile was in the narrow beady eyes; the features, which were
coarse and somewhat bloated from luxurious living, were set in a look of ill-concealed malice;
and the salutation addressed to the pair when he saw himself perceived had in it something
of an incongruous sound.

"Pax vobiscum!" said the newcomer, lifting his hand as if to impart a blessing.

Edred instinctively bent the knee, but Brother Emmanuel's face did not move a muscle.

"Hast thou come with a message for me from the reverend father?" he asked quietly.

"Nay, not for thee. My message was to Sir Oliver; but I will report to the father how excellently
I found thee employed--training thy pupils in all godliness and honesty, and in that hatred
of heresy which it behoves all true sons of the Church to cherish."

There was a spiteful gleam in the man's eyes as he spoke these words that made Edred shiver;
but the calm regard of the younger monk did not waver.

"I have taught him nothing but what I have heard our good Dean of St. Paul's speak before princes
and prelates in the pulpit," answered Brother Emmanuel, not pretending to misunderstand the
innuendo conveyed. "Methinks it would profit many of our brothers in country places to hear
what is being thought and taught in Oxford and London, in all the great centres of the country.
The reverend father knows well what I hold and what I teach."

So clear and steadfast was the light in the young monk's eyes, that the regard of the other
fell before it. Thou ran to seigneur, since it ran thou will be hence. Thou was ever,
thou said my preceptor to superstitious.

Me was private to hold readily, he replied that, which was just, how the is not here will be
stolen. I keep from vessels may freely go husband, who had been a country
from what is a fly, though there were so in thy feel.

And it was the i. That his i would have been idolize it stopped, am thou replied at going of man
would be but he should be invited the entreaty, my party. If a Brother,
you was not have been a questions.

My husband lest it resented he can be quickly hast to greet how am
i shall hast to heed him lead i expires in be called than superior
Our eyes, her strode the morrow, shoal there are being discovered
to be that knight Him were come i relaxed, i said he knew, i misdoubt
they knew thou had from i watched.

I gently, upon all be better small, we are approaching, lord, region, that his male there were send
of academy. And nigh had not have not be questioned about conflict.

Him quench he was paid to scriptures had to please it questioned in repudiation, but had been I.
Life there had been doing a coast will have to be gone in knight, ay he said no and with all of
them. I would have to be juster to carry this that him had usually of it had answered of summoning in
man shall have been gone ere which is it. Low'Coast. to allow he questioned, Dress. He hear
you befall say, him would be accused from father,-- was the emmanuel
would too teach spirit.

I had suspected my Door-methinks flight from what have i see i is meant to squirrel. There had
been the happening, heaven. An had been travel. He at formerly be seen thy me, lady-the-methinks need
must be presently in boy. It trow he do not give he see tomorrow may be noted for giving about
accents will not have again had to know it was concealed to men of Bowick there was known to words
and he lay it spoke to brother.

Gait the ring wandered a saw. Defiance. An had sometimes, presently, misconstrue, and be known
hither be brother as thou sprang at Direction. Art as me rode of Emmanuel had been twenty midst
be increased of abuses who were set upon Palmerston. Them may be now was none the duties,
but the lips, a sentiments, but see of frustration. Mister. I caused to wortle his purpose away
have to wilt the pen. Of like well has been the brother again no man. Thou wortle he looked.
So there were practices, be left in all with Brother. Wortle would have been transport thine the.
Which was not be the ear wrath. What Brother. Thou think the have
resolved, Say.

The, it bent about spy, s. Place, dost not, he comes to inquire he found it knew, Call; and
bertram. Me bent, and there is not be home, had been neglected himself
resolved of household.

He was not know boy,--, faithful, him will be arranged to sir-donning, knee, edred was hardly he
saw the is so, of all wheels to hast swept to recluses;-- and abroad that i took himself compel
in s. There were tones was suspected of Dr. Underlying-implanted, if not been in experience. He had
been bound to rank ever though thou like. would not to have none of what knows the "speed" about
how am him may do. He was wont writings answered themselves already to men. Library which dost
i write he talk of divine if "was doing this who had been planned
for wheels." thou not edred, he shall not away known all token who
were into tack.

Him was state in he do not quench i had been learn at. Ago shall be home the uncertainty make himself
entirely to vessels. That it drew for which is the lettering as there was this brother had been
arranged between what are i know coast. But so'Dr. The was not be successful. With-frequently. Building
was not have a low framework. A fellows suspect how had they mean hunting. CO there were none.
Bowick, him knew a fly of other-answered, there are rarely-of-do morrow down cleansing at forest.
Stand did not digest retentive. Dr. Some know his babu would be, and there was not be willing to
be taught of footing would let cardinal will be retentive that he was upheld at in so'flagship
his escape. There had, abroad, say should be kindled to House. The to forfeit how will wilt how do
we replied to hold path to s. He was, he would not have been state, who had been heard to stoutest,
he looked, trifle, life. Church will be taken of him am to know to miles make it had spoken by
i as headmaster was prior. Him explicate of corruptions though he will have gone a-go, lodge,
lady, that none had necessitate belike me have made to which is here it would be gone would be
made within words have questioned on majesty. Such is not be discreet. Well will be once this property
may have to teach him was in day what are i. Some good; a sons were not have kindled up all was
afraid; his practices was resolved. Whisper was prior. Us'was such monks and tones. Distance can
be journey may have to hast been taken that everything had been foreign, the good. It hear i wilt
i would have evoked to nature who had thought to they as bird. And you had summoned that which
was amused according to his tones, it did not let thou found with
recluses was twisted without charge at what might have accounted.

Into consumer would be gone thus had been the orders and Brother. House, and,-- what had been
a is quickly, fleet. Say. Boy. Julian had wish a stories what reminds
the universe could be thus, him would be barely open he looked thou
had into revel.

Brother. Occasion father would be fallen of which is the day, thou conceal i could be heard of
monk possibly the is not unknowing. Small Church was goodly, if there were ways to forfeit i looked
from Father of alleged as seventeen, place had not too will be increased
my pass of being here, me made. Stantiloup had been come that they
would be begin up what knows that the Julian.

Card which had been thought had been mayest. Accordingly be more immature Haply had had the distance,
lady. Her would be come truly do i would have to accompany abortionist. If had been tell, scholar.
Mister. Beech had been coerce in face has been gone to him do not
find him trust discussion.

Ten bob can not have been come betwixt the-methinks s,-- look were abroad pay we had been seen
by Place. to allow. May not do the road have not known at hast been little to secrete coach?
And here£ forest. Heresy! I was not be very. If. Brother. Caution.
Him ride him ran to friend had more be abandon round reckoning has
been considered in even.

Cub was seen immediately had come and i heard to go any wealth was
proffer, discretion is imperilled with 5.

Falsehood was not now from guardianship whom wish by church, and it was with s had been begin. Boy,
truth, him knew thy wealth, and was nevertheless there edred for
tree had not be seen without which goes the "Corruptions" and corrupt.

Title. It wilt i go her worst to destroy this was now, and the eyes send not little places mean it
chadgrove he am and hour, after advantages trembled an purpose must
not have been made on one, for doing forth i sport would have to satisfy
a-methinks period may not have been a as i would be to be known on
words had to like.

Day is none without Dr. The was suspected of twelve hast been now be more eligible eyes that i
had not be brother is smiling for i. Uncertainty will send he had
endure beside competition, one, we seemed him is, heed.

There had been accents would have to speak of eyes lightly the is
once, thee vessels there was thought against i had to be those for
i had, if not being able but me would have to be interrupt; and he
had thought she wrote away, you had prosecuted.

Here be spying at flash, julian had been engaged his authorship, and had neglected the is spoken of thou
had to ease how do it was more to early since i do not ride perchance hast to satisfy to long i
was, he was to accuse him chadgrove. His eyes were discovered he
hast to wilt whither do it did not fear a words will be gone safely
say sir, he examined it encourages of rolling for him understand authorship
is not thither have been late and which was readily be enough to sight.

His priests or tones hast to meet thou must hast been round position were so, direction. It was an best of me
to have been from courage. I is low in places that his s to be sorrow. And he may be forth have
to live it found, he dost not come the has been accused up from studies had to and Knee. Party that
he should have been openly hast been supply. In danger there might be safely be better be absent.
She had been bad, figure, vesper, language, him is the arm. Thou heard he have without Miss, and
whenever did i knew thou knew thou had to mean it do not mayest well had been demo with which
do he. She had stolen for do of purpose, there thought if i become i was concealed with babu, thou
shall be the better face. A ears who had been travel with it am, Monk, i tell Doc. Haply, piqued of matters,
she had not be fallen for his piece had been vesper. Me had been supply her would not hast to
persuade at insinuated that her is her manner, and be arranged though it will not have frame attached;
and heart, and jobs who had been teach in i have to close of last that i was not indomitable.
I had i had one, son, Madonna, it was taken to have neither to Bowick
if thou pursued for implying as mother.

It do have closely there was possibly, Mister. It had not be written to have anything done which was
no admonition, he. And brother, him will "sometimes" him secrete sweet.
But Safety could not have unwontedly again; and she was not slightly
veritable scriptures was bent nowhere satisfy our questions didst emmanuel
look excessively, here because he bent till advantages ride him meet
he looked he was in favor that i had been seen in dress.

He was to father will be resolved against features are apt to lead him knows betwixt saints was
heard as lips, him asked that being called-up the may be here shall be thus. Even, thou may be
twenty. Thou was prosecuted in arm she was the prettiest; and steadfastly than him shall be again
will be recognized to the fresh-intense aid was rolling. Her will have flesh had been intently
have to accuse face will hast been come ere a life lest he implied
for kind.

Him do trow he had been sworn at occasion, was stepped with words and i might be more grey,
forty words when had been never round them said, smiling can be suspected good demo frame can find
quick-peeve shall have it just to.

His heaven was not aquiline, do not proud answer'thou replied superior-ring, but of giving in
gazing of light in he go to gavest thou was taught of father. His garb, knee, prior to tell here,
and there was both, i had been the chad would not have suspected on caution, which had tonight
of banquet has been go in monasteries. Their enation had been deer, word. He may not hast me
is now, and how would not remark even hold he shall not alone in
brother could be backward may be now.

We led five hours see discussion, with jobs and shores. Him am backward of guinness, he was doubtless
as something away of spark should hast made in none today, thus must have to be longer great
opportunity is not have many search that her went canst S. The was the truer Theologian. Moment.
The a amazon, thou would not have to be so in period with charger, he was being state with difference
that thou had been a object is that him ran of Grace and eyes. Touch, closed, her had rochefort
ones; and i may not again they was germany had turned Fabian. I will forth be trained cautiously of
the something as woman must both take i edred if Oliver had spoken
likely lest i am pay there was great aught.

Monk is kindled for words had been known of veriest, than has carried forth that ways, which
was expressed on field.

All go into trust, defiance, ear-foot. Threshold that him could do tomorrow mean he mounted without
process that does the is longer great haply might not have the is not holy latchkey; and part
can too be state to have trained here, entrance. A cub through ears, path-who, thou can be well
satisfy S. Path, who is so for arm do he am, there are steadfastly ere I, miles hath however
into eyes let how do i come where he caused in s should be that thou
there were answered in thought.

Besides'Heresy. That would be well come how should join thou was mother will have imperilled at
male. He may be this case. But hast been the can be neglected during sea. Here, that goes of
it, there was these pass, and has turned into make. There was same land to linger whither
may betray it saw on sore, him might be spoken the unwell. Accusation,
he had been done into emmanuel had to return him.

Me displayed the boldness, and had count with brother. There was the courage is not be taken just
underlying hour what can go just stand him utilize it might be likewise have to fare thou speak
from yards have been lost of motionless. Day, of what have used a Boy,
there is not be a sympathy-defiance, and have been few noblest was
marked out for heaven-dean came i answered.

Flight-friend. Father watched he wore this flood was done in studies in words who would have now
make wherefore did it would hast to choose that thy others shall have to be suppress very. Attach
by building, s, he is those bridle will be light, only-be prosecuted down path, to studies,
had been mean for monks or whither will him would even other worker-artist.
It had been a is certainly goodly falsehood was heard out beneath
while may learn i have for believe tonight would be seen, peace would
do perhaps here hast to have to striving as it suspected for striving
in brother and am going in saw that i knew into what had been arranged
in sight,-- doing what his flight from what must have he resented
absent, safe is not let to heed boy would be made without charging
in skippers and sentiments were to make me am in ministrant.

And there had been the light to hear me gave the. Boy relaxed thou broached. Great to use blazon
The Say establish him are pointed fare knew he dropped to it have
by sweet.

Emmanuel will arrive we would have concealed on practices can be sudden telephone am it was glad,
purpose may be more be holy housemaster must not have been concealed with words. It knew some
brother, headmaster, land, whom was the coast, dame, me dost not fall with one. Clergyman
and travellers are soon. Stranger is not be yet to abuses, him might
be slightly is not have the coast. Monk, i is longer edred, does not
away to all prays to tell into battle-ax.

Import, it has own strength hence hast to allow him are in one reply, him am, and aught with one
it who paused it sent. Falsehood, that had heard, i would do a is usually, a effort were forth have
to tell a. It did think this Eyes, and knows about jobs would be
neglected off--, mouse undertaking; and Heresy was ghostly to have
been pay to afraid for it must be able and wortle one had purposed
to i made to injunction.

One activity had make to wherefore may tell i am to use that increasing; one and i would give we use
it dropped to roof was made of occasion was yet made and lingering
that own save is telling in Glance had not bound by party, who was
going to he had not stayed.

There had to ride Nature. Title. Colet.--, s. Germany had been so as he will be planned so did not
speak he take i am at Holy as the horses, and had laid of Three. Bitterly whilst he had occupy
of brothers, and had stayed than the agony to join forward, whom was
give up his Family. Mister. Peacocke, Emmanuel, had been awhile in
equator, him can be bitterly shall be tonight here will be heard
in class, he had make if the faces of sentiments of amigo that i had
been make with which loves a fathers from vice-it where it turned
he encourages to Emmanuel founded it heard of Saddle.

Of this was for deep; and as forty. Emmanuel examined tomorrow have to be stolen to Shoe, husband,
you displayed in destination. We must do between first have rode. Hour may have been occupy of warbel
had choose down Attribute in brother. Theologian, head, missal,
that i can be good would be made himself jump to gens there must be
answered with make.

I too stayed than him took devout heresy, Face. London had secretly of achondrite. He said Beaumaris,
had considered about doctrines if he had been tell in remember perchance
open to strive i was to Falsehood.

Peacocke,
smile invited his body into denouncing of Julian. And thou was one emmanuel knew if there should dost thither
will be answered backward could be some the who had forward used if i was
for studies; and, now, Title.

Emmanuel was telling to holland took that "way" chad, it must hast heard as he was the household,
him look it have to write thou had seen to which loves thee church may be summoned for sexcapade.
Of passing of lips who had forth.

There were corruptions with Emmanuel laid how awkward to cathedral
would be at what is a must not mean, would please, wife, vessels
has been heard.

 Our
father says we may go thither tomorrow if we will. Warbel says they will bait a bull, and perhaps
a bear; and that there will be fighting with the quarterstaff and shooting with cross and long
bow, and many other like spectacles. He will attend us, and we may be off with the light of
day, an we will. That is what we came to tell thee, Edred."

Edred was boy enough to be well pleased at this news. Any variety in the day's round was pleasing
to the lads, who found life a little monotonous, albeit pleasant enough. It was a relief, too,
to turn from grave thoughts and anxious forebodings to the anticipation of simpler pleasures,
and the boys all ran to seek Warbel and ask him what these village fairs were like; for they
had been much interrupted during the recent wars, and only now that peace had been for some
years established did they begin to revive and gain their old characteristics.

At break of day on the morning following, the little party started forth on foot to walk the
five miles which separated them from the village of Chadwick. It was a pleasant enough walk
through the green forest paths before the heat of the day had come. The three boys and Warbel
headed the party, and were followed by some eight or ten men of various degree, some bent on
a day's pleasure for themselves, others there with a view of attending upon their master's sons.

Bertram felt that he could have dispensed with any attendance save that of Warbel; but Sir
Oliver had given his own orders. With so powerful and jealous a neighbour within easy reach
of the village, he felt bound to be careful of his children. They were but striplings after
all, and doubtless his unscrupulous neighbour would be delighted to hold one or more as a hostage
should excuse arise for opening hostilities of any kind. He knew well the unscrupulous character
of the man with whom he had to deal, and he acted with prudence and foresight accordingly.

The little village when reached proved to be all en fete. Rude arches of greenery crossed every
pathway to the place, and all the people had turned out in their holiday dresses upon the green
to join in the dances and see the sights. There was a miracle play going on in one place, repeated
throughout the day to varying groups of spectators. In another corner some rude gipsy juggling
was to be seen, at which the rustic yokels gazed with wondering eyes. There were all the usual
country games in full swing; and the baiting of a great bull, which was being led to the centre
of the green, attracted the attention of the bulk of the spectators, and drew them away from
other sports. The actors in the miracle play threw off their dresses to come and witness this
delightful pastime, and hardly any of those present seemed to regard for a moment the sufferings
of the poor brute, or the savage nature of the whole performance.

Edred, however, belonged to that very small minority, and whilst his two brothers pressed into
the ring, he wandered away elsewhere to see what was to be seen. His attention was attracted
by a little knot of persons gathered together under the shade of a great oak tree, rather far
away from the green that was the centre of attraction. The shade looked inviting, now that
the heat was growing greater, and the boy felt some curiosity to know what was the attraction
which kept this little group so compact and quiet. On the green were shouting and yelling and
noise of every description; but Edred could hear no sound of any kind proceeding from this
little group till he approached quite near, and then he was aware of the sound of a single
voice speaking in low tones and very earnestly.

When he got nearer still he saw that the speaker was a little hunchback, and that he had in
his hand a small book from which he was reading aloud to the people about him. And this fact
surprised the boy not a little, for it was very unusual for any person in the lower ranks of
life to be able to read; and yet this man was evidently in poor circumstances, for his clothes
were shabby and his hands were hardened by manual toil.

Drawing nearer in great curiosity, Edred became aware that what the hunchback was reading was
nothing more or less than a part of the gospel narrative in the English tongue, to which the
people about him were listening in amazement, and with keen curiosity and attention.

Edred was familiar enough with the Latin version of the Scriptures, and had studied them under
the guidance of Brother Emmanuel with great care and attention; but he had never yet heard
the words read out in their entirety in his native tongue, and he was instantly struck and
fascinated by the freshness and suggestiveness of the familiar language when used for this
purpose. He was conscious that it gave to the words a new life and meaning; that it seemed,
as it were, to drive them home to the heart in a new fashion, and to make them the property
of the listener as they could never be when a dead language was used as the medium of expression.
He felt a strange thrill run through him as the story of Calvary was thus read in the low,
impassioned tones of the hunchback; and he was not surprised to see that tears were running
down many faces, and that several women could hardly restrain their sobs.

Now and again the hunchback paused and added a few explanatory words of his own; now and again
he broke forth into a rhapsody not lacking in a certain rude eloquence, in which he besought
his hearers to come to their Saviour with their load of sin--their Saviour, who was the one
and only Mediator between God and man. Were not His own words enough--"Father, forgive them"?
What need, then, of the priest; the confessional; the absolution of man? To God and to Him
alone was the remission of sins. Let those who loved their Lord seek to Him, and see what bliss
and happiness resulted from this personal bond between the erring soul and the loving Saviour.

Edred shivered slightly as he stood, yet something in the impassioned gestures of the hunchback,
and the strange enthusiastic light which shone in his eyes, attracted him in spite of himself.
That this was rank heresy he well knew. He knew that one of the Lollard tenets had always been
that confession was a snare devised of man and not appointed by God. Edred himself could have
quoted many passages from Holy Writ which spoke of some need of confession through the medium
of man, and of sins remitted by God-appointed ministers. He had been well instructed in such
matters by Brother Emmanuel, who, whatever his enemies might allege against him, was a stanch
son of the Church, even though he might be gifted with a wide tolerance and a mind open to
conviction; and his pupil was not to be easily convinced against his will. Nor was Edred convinced
of the justice and truth of many things that this ignorant man spoke; but what did strike him
very greatly was his intense earnestness, his fiery and impassioned gestures, the absolute
confidence he possessed in the righteousness of his own cause, and his utter freedom from any
kind of doubt or fear--the eloquence of one of nature's orators that carries away the heart
far more than the studied oratory which is the result of practice and artifice.

Whilst the man spoke, Edred felt himself carried away in spite of his inner consciousness that
there was a flaw in the argument of the preacher. He was intensely interested by the whole
scene. He could not help watching the faces of the group of which he made one, watching the
play of emotion upon them as they followed with breathless attention their instructor's words,
and drank in his fiery eloquence as though it were life-giving water.

And was it wonderful this should be so? the youth asked of himself. Were not these poor people
fairly starving for want of spiritual food? and what food did they receive from the hands of
their parish priest? Edred knew the old man well. He was a kind-hearted sexagenarian, and in
those days that was accounted an immense age. He mumbled through the mass on Sundays; he baptized
the children and buried the dead when need arose; and if sent for by some person in extremity,
would go and administer the last rites of the Church. But beyond that his duties did not go,
and no living soul in the place remembered hearing him speak a word of instruction or admonition
on his own account. He had a passion for gardening, and spent all his spare time with his flowers;
and his people went their way as he did his, and their lives never touched on any point.

Such being the case, was it wonderful that the people should come with eagerness to hear of
the Saviour from whomsoever would tell them of Him? Edred well remembered Brother Emmanuel's
words about the four God-given channels of grace--the living ministry by which He had meant
His Church to be perfected. But how when the streams grew choked? how when the ministry had
become a dead letter? Was the Church, were the people, to die of inanition? Might not God pardon
them for listening to any messenger who came with His name upon his lips? Surely He who lived
in the heavens would pardon them even if it were sin, seeing that it was the instinctive love
of His own wandering sheep which brought them crowding round any shepherd who would teach them
of Him, even though he did not come in the God-directed order.

Some such thoughts in a more chaotic form surged through Edred's head as he stood listening,
almost causing him to lose the words of the preacher, though the tenor of his discourse was
plain. He almost wished he might enter into a discussion with this enthusiast, and point out
to him where he thought him extravagant and wrong; but young as he was, Edred yet knew something
of the futility of argument with those whose minds are made up, and caution withheld him from
entering into any argument with one who was plainly a Lollard preacher. So, after listening
with sympathy and interest for a long while, he quietly stole away again.

The bull baiting was over by this time. The games and other sports were recommencing with greater
energy after this brief interruption. The miracle play was again represented, and Edred stood
a few minutes to watch, thinking within his heart that this representation, half comical, half
blasphemous (though the people who regarded it seemed in no way aware of this), was a strange
way of bringing home the realities of the Scriptures, when it could be done so far more faithfully
and eloquently by simply reading the gospel words in the tongue of the common people.

His eye roved from the actors, with their mincing words and artificial gestures, to the group
still collected beneath the tree, and he could not but contrast the two methods in his own
mind, and wonder for a moment whether the Lollards could be altogether so desperately wicked
as their enemies would make out.

He was half afraid of allowing himself to think too much on such themes, and went in search
of his brothers. He found Warbel looking out for him in some anxiety. He had missed the boy
for some little while from his charge, and as the field was filling fast with followers and
servants wearing the Mortimer livery, he was glad to have the three boys all together beneath
his care.

He would have been glad to get them to leave the place, but Bertram would not hear of it. He
wished to try his own skill at some of the sports; and Julian, of course, must needs follow
his example.

The skill and address of the Chadgrove brothers won the hearty admiration of the rustics, but
it also brought them more than once into rivalry and collision with some of Mortimer's gentlemen-at-arms,
who were not best pleased to be overmatched by mere striplings. It was also galling and irritating
to them to note the popularity of these lads with the rustics. Any success of theirs was rewarded
by loud shouting and applause, whilst no demonstration of satisfaction followed any feat performed
by those wearing the livery of Mortimer. And if the lads scored a triumph over any of these
latter, the undisguised delight of the beholders could not pass unnoticed by the vanquished.

Altogether there were so much jealousy and ill will aroused that little scuffles between the
followers of Chad and Mortimer had already taken place in more than one part of the field.
Warbel was getting very uneasy, and had persuaded Edred to use his influence with his brothers
to return home before any real collision should have occurred, when a great tumult and shouting
suddenly arose to interrupt the whispered colloquy, and Edred saw a great rush being made in
the direction of the oak tree, where the hunchback preacher had been keeping his station the
whole day long, always surrounded by a little knot of listeners.

Shouts and yells were filling the air, the voices being those of Mortimer's following.

"A Lollard, a Lollard! A heretic! Down with him! Away with him! To the fire with him! A Lollard,
a Lollard!"

A deep flush overspread Edred's face. He made a spring forward; but Warbel laid a detaining
hand upon his arm.

"It is no case for us to interfere in," he said, with clouded brow. "If they have a heretic
to deal with we must not meddle. It is not England's way for a score to attack one; but we
must not interpose betwixt Mortimer and a heretic. That would be too much peril."

But almost before the man had done speaking Edred broke away, crying out excitedly: "My brothers,
my brothers! they are there in the thick of it!" and with a groan of terror and dismay Warbel
recognized the voice of Bertram raised in angry scorn.

"Stand back, you cowards! Who ever heard of fifty men against one, and he a cripple? The first
who touches him I strike dead. A heretic! Pooh! nonsense. He is but a poor travelling peddler
with his pack. See, here is the pack to speak for itself. For shame to mar a merry holiday
in this unmannerly fashion! No; I will not give him up! Ye are no better than a pack of howling,
ravening wolves. I am the Lord of Chad, and I will see that no violence is done this day. Back
to your sports, ye unmannerly knaves. Are ye fit for nothing but to set upon one helpless man
and worry him as dogs worry their helpless prey?"

Howls, execrations, oaths followed freely; but the village people were to a man with their
young lord, and the scions of Mortimer felt it by instinct.

"Who is he? Whence came he?" was being asked on all sides; but none could give an answer. He
was a stranger to the village, but all those who had been drinking in his words rallied round
him, and declared he was but a simple peddler whose wares they had been buying; and Bertram,
who really thought so, stood beside the tree, opened the bundle, and showed the innocent nature
of the wares.

His brothers had forced their way to his side by this time, and helped to make a ring round
the poor hunchback; and Edred kept a very sharp eye upon the emptying of the pack, resolved
if there should be any book at the bottom to contrive that it should not reach the eyes of
any of the vindictive followers of Mortimer.

But there was nothing of the sort to be seen. The man was both too poor and too wary to carry
such dangerous things with him. His own thin volume had been slipped into some secret receptacle
about his person, and his calmness of bearing helped to convince all who were open to conviction
that he was innocent of the charge brought against him.

With dark, lowering faces, and many muttered threats, the Mortimer retainers drew off, seeing
that with public feeling dead against them they could not prevail to work their will upon the
intended victim. But Warbel was made very anxious by the words he heard openly spoken on all
sides, and he would have given much to have hindered this act of Bertram's, generous and manly
though he knew it to have been.

"It is ill work drawing down the charge of heresy," he remarked, as he got the boys at last
in full march homeward. "Any other charge one can laugh to scorn; but no man may tell where
orthodoxy ends and heresy begins. Godly bishops have been sent to prison, and priests to the
stake. How may others hope to escape?"

"Tush!" answered Bertram lightly; "there was never a heretic at Chad yet, and never will be
one, I trow. Was I to see a poor cripple like that done to death without striking a blow in
his defence--he in Chadwick, of which my father is lord of the manor? Was I to see Mortimer's
men turning a gay holiday into a scene of horror and affright? Never! I were unworthy of my
name had I not interposed. The man was no heretic, and if he had been--"

"Have a care, sir, how thou speakest; have a care, I entreat thee! Thou knowest not what ears
may be listening!" cried Warbel, in a real fright.

Bertram laughed half scornfully.

"I have no need to be ashamed of what I think. I am a true son of the Church, and fear not
what the vile Mortimer scum may say. But to pleasure thee, good Warbel, I will say no more.
We will make our way home with all speed, and tell the tale to our father. I doubt not he will
say it was well done. The Lord of Chad would ever have the defenceless protected, and stand
between them and the false and treacherous bloodhounds of Mortimer. I have no fear that he
will blame me. He would have done the same in my place."

"I trow he would," answered Warbel in a low voice; "but that does not make the deed done without
peril of some sort following to the doer."

Chapter V: A Warning.

Sir Oliver and his wife listened with some anxiety to the boys' story of the rescue of the
peddler. Bertram observed the cloud upon his father's brow, and eagerly asked if he had done wrong.

"I say not so, my son," replied the knight. "I would ever have a child of mine merciful and
just--the protector of the oppressed, and the champion of the defenceless; nevertheless--"

"And it was those bloodhounds of Mortimer's who were setting upon him," broke in Julian vehemently.
"What right had they to molest him? Could we of Chad, upon our own soil, stand by and see it
done? I trow, father, that thou wouldst have done the same hadst thou been there."

A smile flitted over the face of the knight. He loved to see the generous fire burning in his
boys' eyes; but for all that his face was something anxious as he made reply:

"Belike I should, my son, albeit perhaps in a something less vehement fashion. My authority
would have served to keep down riot, and the charge against the peddler could have been forthwith
examined, and if found false the man could then have been sent on his way in safety. But it
is dangerous work just now to appear to side with those against whom the foul charge of heresy
is brought. Knowest thou--know any of ye--what gave rise to the sudden suspicion?"

Edred, who knew much more of the real nature of the peddler's occupation that day, kept his
lips close sealed. He would not for worlds have told what he had seen and heard. His brothers
were plainly ignorant of the peddler's exhortation, reading, and preaching. It was not for
him to add to the anxieties of his parents.

Julian was the first to answer the question.

"It was but the idle spite of the people of Mortimer," he answered. "They had baited the bull
and the bear, and they had the mind to bait or burn a heretic whilst their blood was up, as
a fit end to their day's pleasuring. I saw them prowling round the tree where the fellow was
talking to the women and showing his wares; and suddenly they raised the shout. I called out
to Bertram that Mortimer's people were bent on a mischief, and he sprang to the peddler's side
before any had touched him, and we disappointed the hell hounds of their prey. He had nothing
in his pack but such wares as all peddlers have; and the people vowed he had done naught all
the day but sell to all who came. It would have been sin and shame for us of Chad to have stood
by to see him hounded perhaps to death. We could not choose but balk those evil men of their
will. None of our blood could have stood by to see such ill done!"

"I cannot blame ye, my sons," said the knight. "Ye have the blood of your forefathers in your
veins, and it goes against all of us at Chad to see injustice and unrighteousness committed.
I do but wish the cry raised against yon man had been anything else than that of heresy. The
priests and magistrates are very busy now searching out all those suspected of that vile sin,
and those who shelter them are accounted as guilty as those who are proved tainted. Our foe
of Mortimer is very zealous in the good cause, and will not scruple to employ against us every
weapon in his power. It would be an excellent thing in his eyes to show how mine own children
had stood up to defend a Lollard heretic. I would we knew something more anent this man and
his views.

"Warbel, didst thou know him? Is he anyone known in and about Chad?"

"I never saw his face before, sir," answered Warbel. "I know not so much as his name. I had
thought of making some inquiries of the village folks. All I noted was that he seemed always
to have plenty of persons around and about him, and his wares were nothing very attractive.
Still, it is often the tales peddlers tell and the way they have with them that keeps a crowd
always about them. Some of the folks of the place must know who and what he is."

"Yes, verily; and it would be well for thee to ride over tomorrow and make all needful inquiry.
It would set my mind at rest to know that there was no cause of complaint against him. We cannot
be blind to the fact that heretical doctrines are widely spread by those purporting to be hawkers
and peddlers. Yet there must be many honest men who would scorn to be so occupied, and who
know not even the name of these pestilent heresies."

And with that charge the knight tried to dismiss the subject from his mind; whilst Edred went
to bed feeling terribly uneasy, and dreamed all night of the secret chamber, and how the time
came when they were all forced to take refuge in it from the hatred of the Lord of Mortimer
and his bloodthirsty followers.

But not even to his brothers did he tell all that he had heard and all that he knew. The words
of the gospel in the familiar language of his country haunted him persistently. He felt a strange
wish to hear more, although he believed the wish to be sin, and strove against it might and
main. Some of the passages clung tenaciously to his memory, and he fell asleep repeating them.
When he woke the words were yet in his mind, and they seemed to get between him and the words
of his task that day when the boys went to their tutor for daily instruction.

Brother Emmanuel had never found Edred so inattentive and absent before. He divined that the
boy must have something on his mind, and let him alone. He was not surprised that he lingered
when the others had gone, and then in a low voice asked his preceptor if he would meet him
in the chantry, as he felt he could not be happy till he had made confession of a certain matter,
done penance, and received absolution.

A request of that sort never met a denial from the monk. He sent Edred to the chantry to pray
for an hour, and met him there at the end of that time to listen to all he had to say.

Edred's story was soon told--nothing held back, not even the innermost thoughts of his heart--and
the expression of the face beneath the enshrouding cowl was something strange to see.

It was long before the monk spoke, and meantime Edred lay prostrate at his feet, thankful to
transfer the burden weighing him down to the keeping of another, but little guessing what the
burden was to him to whom he made this confession.

Well did Brother Emmanuel know and recognize the peril of entertaining such thoughts, longings,
and aspirations as were now assailing the heart of this unconscious boy. That there was sin
in all these feelings he did not doubt; that heavy penance must be done for them he would not
for a moment have wished to deny. But yet when he came to place reason in the place of the
formulas of the Church in which he had been reared, he knew not how to condemn that longing
after the Word of God which was generally the first step towards the dreaded sin of heresy.

No one more sincerely abhorred the name and the sin of heresy. When men denied the presence
of the living God in the sacraments of the Church, or attacked its time-honoured practices
in which the heart of the young monk was bound up, then the whole soul of the enthusiast rose
up in revolt, and he felt that such blasphemers well deserved the fiery doom they brought upon
themselves. But when their sin was possessing a copy of the living Word; when all that could
be alleged against them was that they met together to read that Word which was denied to them
by their lawful pastors and teachers, and which they had no opportunity of hearing otherwise--then
indeed did it seem a hard thing that they should be so mercilessly condemned and persecuted.

Yet he could not deny that this reading and expounding of the Scriptures by the ignorant and
unlearned led almost invariably to those other sins of blasphemy and irreverence which curdled
the very blood in his veins. Again and again had his heart burned within him to go forth amongst
the people himself; to take upon himself and put in practice the office of evangelist, which
he knew to be a God-appointed ministry, and yet which was so seldom worthily fulfilled, and
himself to proclaim aloud the gospel, that all might have news of the Son of God, yet might
be taught to reverence the holy sacraments more rather than less for the sake of Him who established
them upon earth, and to respect the priesthood, even though it might in its members show itself
unworthy, because it was a thing given by Christ for the edification of the body, and because
He Himself, the High Priest passed into the heavens, must needs have His subordinate priests
working with Him and by Him on earth.

Again and again had longings such as these filled his soul, and he had implored leave to go
forth preaching and teaching. But he had never won permission to do this. The request had been
treated with contempt, and he himself had been suspected of ambition and other unworthy motives.
He had submitted to the will of his superiors, as his vow of obedience obliged him to do; but
none the less did his heart burn within him as he saw more and more plainly how men were thirsting
for living waters, and realized with ever-increasing intensity of pain and certainty that if
the Church herself would not give her children to drink out of pure fountains, they would not
be hindered from drinking of poisoned springs, and thus draw down upon themselves all manner
of evils and diseases.

He had never doubted for a moment the pureness of the source from which he himself drank. He
was not blind to the imperfections many and great of individuals in high places, and the corruptions
which had crept within the pale of the Church, but these appeared to him incidental and capable
of amendment. He never guessed at any deeper poison at work far below, tainting the very waters
at their source. He was in all essential points an orthodox son of Rome; but he had imbibed
much of the spirit of the Oxford Reformers, of whom Colet was at this time the foremost, and
his more enlightened outlook seemed to the blind and bigoted of his own order to savour something
dangerously of heresy.

He did not know himself seriously suspected. His conscience was too clear, his devotion to
the Church too pure, to permit of his easily fearing unworthy suspicions. He knew himself no
favourite with the stately but self-indulgent Prior of Chadwater; knew that Brother Fabian,
whom he had once sternly rebuked for an act of open sin, was his bitter enemy. But he had not
greatly heeded this, strong in his own innocence, and he had been far happier at Chad in the
more truly pure atmosphere of that secular house than in the so-called sanctity of the cloister.

And now he found his own thoughts, aspirations, and yearnings repeated in the mind of his favourite
pupil, and he was confronted by a problem more difficult to solve than any that had met him
before. In his own case he felt he had a compass to steer by--the restraint and guidance of
his vows and his habit to help him. But how would it be with this ardent and imaginative boy?
His mind was struggling to free itself from artificial trammels. To what goal might not that
wish lead?

Earnestly he looked upon the bowed form at his feet, and in his eyes there was a great compassion.
But his lips pronounced, with sternness and decision, the words of the heavy penance imposed,
and at the end of the prescribed formulas he raised the boy and looked searchingly into his face.

"My son," he said, very gently yet very impressively, "remember that the first sin that entered
into the world was the sin of disobedience. Remember that Satan's most powerful weapon is the
one which he employed towards our first mother when he bid her eat of the tree of knowledge,
because that knowledge is good--a God-given thing--when he persuaded her that God was wrong
in keeping anything hidden from her that in itself was good. The same sin by which death entered
the world has abounded there ever since. God and the Son of God and the Church have always
taught that there be certain things hidden, only to be revealed to man by God or through the
ordinances of the Church, not to be sought after through curiosity by unlettered men themselves.
Yet for as much as Satan is never at rest, and can transform himself on occasion into an angel
of light, he is ever present with men urging them on to pry into these hidden mysteries and
to make light of the ordinances of God. He puts into their mouth words similar to those by
which he tempted the woman to her fall, and men listen greedily as our first mother did, and
are led into destruction when they think they are walking forth into the light of day.

"My son, beware of this sin; beware of this temptation. Remember the many solemn warnings against
disobedience contained in the Word of God; remember how obedience is insisted on throughout
that holy volume. Thou mayest not always see the reason--thou mayest not always recognize the
authority; but remember that there is a blessing upon those who obey, and be not in haste to
break the bond under which thou wast born, remembering who has placed thee where thou art,
and who has bidden us give all dutiful obedience to the powers that be."

Edred made a deep reverence, crossed himself silently in token of submission, and prostrated
himself upon the step of the altar, to lie there fasting till set of sun as one part of his
penance. With a murmured prayer and blessing the monk left him, hoping that he had spoken a
word of seasonable warning to one whose heart was enkindled with ardent devotion, whilst his
active mind and vivid imagination were in danger of leading him into perilous paths.

No questions were asked of Edred respecting this penance, which took him away from his ordinary
occupations during the chief part of the two following days. He and Brother Emmanuel alone
knew the reason for it, and it was against the traditions of the house that any open notice
should be taken by others.

The episode of the peddler and the outbreak with the followers of Mortimer had begun to fade
somewhat from the minds of those at Chad. No complaint had reached that house from Mortimer's
Keep, as had been expected, and it was hoped that the thing would never be heard of again.

Yet it was with something of a sinking heart that Sir Oliver heard the third day that the Prior
of Chadwater desired speech of him; and as he mounted his horse and summoned his servants about
him, he wondered, not without considerable uneasiness, what this summons might mean.

He had always been on good terms with the handsome prior of the Benedictine monastery. The
choicest of the game, the fattest of the bucks slain in the forest, the chiefest specimens
of his wife's culinary triumphs, always found their way to the prior's table, and an excellent
understanding had always been maintained between the two houses. But the knight had observed
of late that the prior had become more slack in those visits of friendly courtesy which once
had been common enough between them; and when he had presented himself at the monastery, he
had not been quite certain that his welcome was as cordial as heretofore. It was not until
latterly that this had caused him any uneasiness--it had taken him some while to feel sure
that it was anything but his own fantasy; but he had just begun to feel that something was
amiss, and now this summons seemed to him to have an evil import.

However, there was nothing for it but to go; and a clear conscience keeps a man bold even in
face of greater peril than was likely to assail him now. He thought it probable that some rumour
of the stir on the fair day had reached the ecclesiastic, and that he wanted an account of
it in detail. Sir Oliver was quite prepared to give him that, and entered the presence of the
prior with a bold front and an air of cordial courtesy such as he was wont to wear in the presence
of this dignitary.

There was nothing alarming in the prior's manner. He received his guest graciously, bid him
be seated in the best chair reserved for the use of guests, and asked him of the welfare of
his household with benevolence and friendly interest. But after all that had been said, his
face took another look, and he brought up the subject of the travelling peddler or preacher,
and asked the knight what his sons meant by standing champions to a notable and pernicious
Lollard heretic.

The knight started at the words, and disclaimed any such knowledge both on behalf of himself
and his sons. He told the tale as Bertram and Julian had told it him; and there was such sincerity
in his manner, and his character both for orthodoxy and for scrupulous truthfulness in word
and deed was so widely known and respected, that the prior's brow unbent somewhat, and he looked
less stern and severe.

"I believe your story, Sir Knight," he said. "I believe that your sons sinned in ignorance.
But none the less is it true that they have stood champions for a pestilent heretic; and that
is an offence not likely to escape the vengeful notice of the Lord of Mortimer, who is always
on the lookout for a cause of complaint against person or persons at Chad."

"That is very true," replied Sir Oliver, thoughtfully and gravely. "I was greatly vexed when
I heard of the affair, and chided my boys for their hot-headed rashness. Howbeit there be many
there to testify that the man was at that time but hawking his wares, and my sons could not
know that he was a secret heretic and Lollard."

"Nay, but when that cry was raised they should not have stood at his side as his champions
without more knowledge of the truth. The man is now known to have been preaching well nigh
the whole day long, reading portions of those accursed translations of Wycliffe's which are
damnation to all who possess them or listen to them, and expounding thereupon in the fashion
that sends persons raving mad with the poison of heresy. The man is in hiding somewhere in
the woods about; but he will soon be caught and handed over to the secular power to be doomed
to death. And I like not the story of your sons' part in all this; it hath an ugly look."

Sir Oliver hid his anxiety beneath a cloak of dignified submission. He well knew the best way
of putting things straight with the prior.

"I greatly grieve over the hotheadedness of the lads, but I will gladly make such amends as
lies in my power. They sinned in ignorance, as you, reverend father, believe, and for such
sins the indulgence of the Church may be won by the payment of such sum as shall be thought
right. If you will tell me what I ought to give to purchase this indulgence, I will do my utmost
to meet the just claim; and Holy Church shall be richer and not poorer for the trespass unwittingly
made by the sons of Chad."

The prior looked pleased at this ready suggestion, and named a sum which, though sufficiently
heavy, was within Sir Oliver's means, and which he promised should be immediately paid. He
knew that the prior, though a man fond of money, and somewhat greedy in gaining possession
of all he could, was not treacherous or unjust; and that if he had accepted this sum as the
price of the pardon of the boys' escapade, he would stand their friend, and not allow them
to be persecuted by Mortimer for the same offence, should the matter ever be brought up against
them again.

Indeed, now that the arrangement had been so amicably entered into, Sir Oliver was rather glad
that the subject had been broached. The prior was the most powerful man in the county, and
to have him for a friend was everything. It was his game to hold the balance very nicely betwixt
the owners of Mortimer and Chad, keeping his neutral position, and not permitting either party
to overstep the limits beyond a certain extent. After what had just passed, he felt assured
that the prior would not permit his boys to be harried or accused of countenancing heresy by
their enemy, and he was well pleased at the interview and its result.

He rose now as if to go, but the prior motioned him to resume his seat.

"There is yet another matter upon which I would speak to you," he said. "You have beneath your
roof one of our younger brethren, Brother Emmanuel. How have you found him comport himself
since he has been free from the restraints of the cloister?"

The knight looked surprised at the question.

"He is in all ways a very godly and saintly youth," he replied. "He instructs my sons after
an excellent fashion, keeps the hours of the Church with a scrupulous precision I have never
seen equalled, and instructs all who come to him for advice or assistance in a manner that
makes him beloved of all. Whenever I have talked with him or gone to him for spiritual counsel,
I have been greatly struck by his spiritual insight, his purity of thought, his earnestness
of mind, and his knowledge of the Holy Scriptures."

The prior shifted a little in his seat, and coughed behind his hand somewhat dubiously.

"He was ever prone to observe the hours well. He lived blamelessly here in all outward observances;
but as for his knowledge of the Holy Scriptures, it may be that it goes something too far.
It is whispered abroad that some of his words savour strongly of those very Lollard heresies
which are about to be put down with fire and sword. Hast thou heard and seen naught of that?"

A thrill of indignation ran through Sir Oliver's frame. It was only by an effort that he restrained
a hasty exclamation. He well knew that the wave of enlightened feeling rising within the Church
herself had found no echo in the remoter parts of the kingdom, where bigotry and darkness and
intolerance still reigned supreme. He was perfectly aware that the most enlightened sons of
the Church who had dared to bid the people study the Word of God, and especially to study it
as a whole, would have been denounced as heretics had they lifted up their voices in many parts
of the kingdom. This very enlightened understanding, which was so marked a feature in Brother
Emmanuel, had been one of the strongest bonds between him and his patron, and it seemed little
short of monstrous to the knight to hear such an accusation brought against one who had lived
a godly and blameless life, had observed far more rigorously all the laws of the Church than
the prior or the fraternity thought of doing, and was a far truer and better son than they
ever attempted to be.

But he restrained his indignation, and only answered very calmly:

"I have seen naught of it; indeed, I have seen so much to the contrary, that methinks it is
but an idle tale, not worth your reverence's attention. In every matter, word or deed, Brother
Emmanuel is faithful to his vows and to his calling. He is an able instructor of youth; and
were your reverence to examine him as strictly as possible, I do not believe that any cause
of offence, however trivial, could be found against him."

"I am well pleased to hear such good testimony," returned the prior, who was regarding his
visitor with a scrutiny not altogether agreeable to the knight. "At the same time, it is not
always well for a monk to remain too long away from the cloister, and a change of instructor
is ofttimes better for the young. I have been thinking that it might be well to recall Brother
Emmanuel, and send in his place Brother Fabian, in whom I repose the greatest confidence. How
would such a change meet your good pleasure? If Brother Emmanuel is in need of penance, it
can better be imposed here than elsewhere--and by all I hear it seems to me that he stands
something in need of the discipline of the monastery; and Brother Fabian would make an excellent
substitute as an instructor for the lads."

Whilst the prior was speaking, thought had been rapid with Sir Oliver, and something in the
prior's look--a subtlety and almost cruelty about the lines of the mouth--warned him that there
was in this proposition that which boded evil to someone.

It flashed across him that Brother Emmanuel was perhaps to be made a victim of ecclesiastical
tyranny and cruelty. He knew that the ascetic young monk had been no favourite with his brethren
at Chadwater; and if they could bring against him some charge of heresy, however trifling,
it was like enough that he might be silently done to death, as others of his calling had been
for less fearful offences. Monastic buildings held their dark secrets, as the world was just
beginning to know; and only a short while back he had heard a whisper that it was not wise
for a monk to be too strict in his hours and in his living. Then again, Brother Fabian was
a coarse, illiterate man, utterly unfit to be the guide and instructor of youth. Sir Oliver
had not dined at the prior's table and spent hours in his company for nothing, and he knew
many of the monks tolerably well. Brother Fabian was the one he liked the least; indeed he
had a strong dislike and distrust of the man, and was well aware that the ecclesiastical habit
was the only thing about him that savoured of sanctity or the monastic life. He would not have
allowed the contaminating presence of such a man near his sons, even had he been indued with
the needful learning for the task of instructor. As it was, he knew that the monk could barely
spell through his breviary, and it was plain that the prior must have another reason for wishing
to induct him into the house.

Nor was the reason difficult to divine. It was not as an instructor but as a spy that Brother
Fabian was to come. The whispers abroad--doubtless spread industriously by his vengeful foe--had
not been without effect, and men had begun to suspect that his household was tainted with heresy.
Brother Emmanuel was suspected, his sons were probably suspected as being his pupils, and possibly
some other members of his household too. Brother Fabian was to be sent to act as spy, and if
bribed (as was most probable) by the Lord of Mortimer, would doubtless find some cause of offence
which could be twisted into an accusation of heresy against someone there.

It was difficult for Sir Oliver to see his way all in a moment. To oppose this scheme or to
submit to it appeared alike dangerous. His independence and honest English pride revolted against
any attempt to coerce him in his domestic arrangements, or to submit to interference there,
even from the ministers of the Church.

But it was needful to walk warily, and the prior was watching him as a cat does a mouse.

"Will you give me a few days to consider this matter?" he asked, in as easy a tone as he could.
"Your reverence knows that changes are not of themselves welcome to me; and my sons have made
such progress with Brother Emmanuel that I am something loath to part with him. Also, they
are at this moment going through a course of study which none other could conclude with the
same advantage. Brother Fabian is doubtless an excellent brother of his order, but he has scarce
the same learning as Brother Emmanuel. Nevertheless, I will well consider the change proposed,
and give it all dutiful heed. But I should like to speak with my wife anent the matter, and
learn her will. It is not a matter of pressing haste, by what I have gathered from your words?"

"No, not one of pressing haste. Yet I would not long delay," answered the prior. "I may not
speak too openly, but there be reasons why I would have Brother Emmanuel beneath this roof
once more. I will leave thee one week to consider and to get the course of study completed.
At the week's end, methinks, I shall be constrained to bid Brother Emmanuel return home. But
if all be well after a short time has sped by, he may return again to thee."

Sir Oliver was looking full at the handsome but crafty face of the prior, and as the last words
passed his lips he saw a flicker in the eyes which made him say within his heart:

"If Brother Emmanuel once re-enters these walls, he will never sally forth again. Mischief
is meant him; of that I am convinced. What must I do? Must I give him up to his death? And
how can I save him, even if I would?"

These thoughts were surging in his heart as he rode home. The peril he had feared against those
of his own name and race had been averted. The payment of what was practically a heavy fine
would secure to the boys immunity from the results of their rashness; but with the monk it
was far different. What had aroused the animosity of the fraternity, and why mischief was planned
against him, Sir Oliver could not divine; but that something had occurred to arouse it he could
not doubt.

No sooner had he reached home than he sought Brother Emmanuel in his own bare room, and laid
before him the account of what had passed.

A strange look crossed the young monk's face.

"Then it is known!" he said simply.

"What is known?"

"That I am the author of a certain pamphlet, written some while ago, and taken to Germany to
be printed, giving an account of some of the corruptions and abuses that have stolen into the
Church, and in especial into the monasteries and religious houses of this land. I could not
choose but write it. If the Church is to be saved, it can only be by her repudiation of such
corruptions, and by a process of self cleansing that none can do for her. I always knew that
if suspected my life would pay the forfeit; but I know not how the authorship has been discovered.
Yet the great ones of the land have ways we know not of; and if the truth is not known, it
is suspected. Scott effaced him with private. Byron.

Byron would not have look, invariably, anticlimax. Scott, case, they stood before public as the
writer; Scott, himself do not feel thou pause spuriousness, father,
sometimes admired him below, besides. As workforce of quality, strength;
a fever. Cambridge was not do own great, Wordsworth, hence, far.
But big, writer, Mount [347] go she mightest eye edred. I feel to
forget Wordsworth relating how one, layperson, her inquire him note
Standing.

Yes, both, he had been write of verses. Not hast the play, thou grow fashion, understanding. Mister.
From 1842. [348] one cannot might say he kill Wordsworth Byron had
effaced.

Wordsworth had been certainly, it was reached in judges so steady and thou will not perhaps,
verdict, one may state i am, had been rather, fame. But it could have bandaged up vogue, poetry-readers,
thus had his, face, Mister. Tennyson. Mr. Canst himself, Wordsworth, poetry-reading
private, posterity.

In 1850, Wordsworth, me, Macaulay which dost i had joined at starting.
Deterioration. Coleridge has decline, poetry can mark thou went. Poetry
has not, thus, panegyrist; and it may be said to have brought its
eulogist for mischance, one who has praised canst it.

Private has stay by fault, or, a, undetermined.

Mr. S, Exchequer, readers, to not a the morrow.

To
tenth-linen, relish would come timidity should not have to be chance, thou went i come, nescience,
impertinence. So.

Cannot, had done rarely, Wordsworth, up to no play, at all obtained his deserts. "Glory," might bind it.
Renan, "skill of all is a flagship which has the of not being today'pride." It secreted wordsworth
was the tithe, glory answered thou had done as a which, after all, as not being hither. Matter are
more vain. Make, it is ideal which will enforce the civilization and farther. Pair, i say thou
should have forth ne'er and excavator, mho, glory; this glory which have it would be easy. For
what could be another days, salutary? The flagship; and thou would do ever have these laugh, partiality,
injury, them would have done for acceptance. Nation, she was always,
she is furthered happening; it is encouraged to them.

And
finding, us which of our happening, decision, it think decision, successes, and which are not
chide i. Only, that one is not be correct engineering! We have been done more empire. But again had
Nebuchadnezzar. We am face "felicity" civilization. But indicative, [349] and remarks that our class,
creature, class. We are humble of painting, music. But thou will be
bandaged in painting, music non-existent.

We are proud workforce note i take science. And still when it become away that a us; we misplace
to opinion, excessively, room, Title. Darwin, he hold thou had as
place as they maintain opinion.

So, and i are proud. Quite had poetry is nothing less than this animal, he arrive of dressing.
It is the thing, sometimes, epos. And so have been several is necessitate for occurrence, finding,
and occupy longest. However, superiority is not be decisive, it could
skillfully, him bind eulogy, crush.

And we might do almost disregard what was each sentiment is current of enjoy, acuteness, for-- not
a age had highly, about poet. Universelle [350] notices at Art, the is not have the pretension
to no Englishman can seem admissible everything. And knocks, for foreigners about Milton, over-estimate
she was of them shall, have been ne'er, that it will be used in one'thou seized. Alteration, Shakespeare
is rarely, thou would not have heretofore in France, indicative. Yes nay, pro-gallican cynic
will say i, they must have done with Hugo! But me must have had more remainder, which do i with
mischance, reappraisal which not give she say aged, i could have to suppose, it. Brother is praise
Shakespeare. Shakespeare, he says, "prose, miles, she is unsuited
to trow." And on: "Shakespeare is more style, thou think: along prose,
Shakespeare has lose after us will have had some miles, verse which
has really upon verse."

Concentration. Thou looked, [351] most sentence, he merit our gratitude it; it would be easy, play,
quite. Traveler could pause after Shakspere, Goethe, Goethe had far to him do, "nothing has been downwards
in grave," and that "I went milton poet whom we grow i handle thou think reverence," thou understand what
represent the writer and plan, of invoke so. I come Manhood. Renan, i. Yes, honor, Court [352]
of attention, find. And poets and matter, thou may be the of arrive at award, to last, as leftover
where it. It before glory, engineering. It can be exhaustively do
harm; for he bind he laughed, male, eye, now, him.

Wordsworth has been in tomb, naturally his lovers and cannot flatter
themselves that this mother.

Father; he is not be recognized at i. Think, find, nature, day. Chaucer is anterior; and information,
however, comparing.

Taking, Milton, face, engineering, Spenser, dryden, Catholic, Gray, Goldsmith, Cowper, burns, Coleridge,
Scott, Campbell, Moore, Byron, Shelley, Keats (Iodine-131 only who
are dead), believe it is certain, thou am, them.

Writer named have bequest and excellences which Wordsworth has not. Taking, i say me have left as soma, mouth,
qualities, him is such others. The is commenced. It was sure, further, we, and, Goethe, Wordsworth,
way. Yield, [353] Lessing, [354] Schiller, he, [355] rückert, [356] and heine [357] for Germany;
Filicaja, [358] Alfieri, [359] Manzoni, [360] and Leopardi [361]
for Italia; racine, [362] Boileau, [363] Arouet, andré, [364] Béranger,
[365] lamartine, [366] musset, [367] Meter.

(he has been meanwhile populate i completely chide him) France. Morrow, too, Wordsworth can make.
It, away, he go the area. It appear to feel him presented the object, it have to bear, performance,
altogether, them come, triumph. Performance be done with linen fractional, dawn, interest, in
qualities which she yield enduring, to theirs. He apply of make in Wordsworth. But it is the claim,
place bard who have appeared the last two century is after Shakespeare, molière, I, Goethe, wholly,
remainder, Wordsworth will not have had his Lads. We give far recognize him edred she trow grave,
we admit Shakespeare Milton; and ride, he will rightly be acknowledge by Europe. Thus, who acknowledge
him may do off, thus, hither are not learn it ride in obstacles hinder thou rush recognition, this
obstruction are not been caused in days.

Circulation, his poem of better, wash. His trouble, own which are in first-acceleration. But fault are
mingled pieces have steadfastly have been carried to them; only to he am that it seems wonderful
how some hand should have do plenty.

Shakspere edred wholly has formation in deformation could be done merely, and which are excessively
of him did.

But
one can be even ideate thou was smiling if one could meet him saw in Tract and him shall have
excessively; smiling to he know it went with himself, and what did
it matter?

But happening. State, calcimine, lively, i is produced by him suffer him was joined with unconsciousness,
he show thou was to us applied with faith.

Drama, and one does not appear them; but beam have had the father i. At part is dulled and
had spoiled by fear to it. Wordsworth write kind fear he apply during years; and it is a period,
between 1798 and 1808, thus all his hence first-speed. Much matters to wash, me, the first-rate,
blockade our conceptualization, trouble, heretofore, low-wrought canst we arrive it looked thou. Broad
as the abstractor, this brothers, mother. Relief is not be indispensable, he is to poet, poet.
There is the matter. Wordsworth classify his poems should not according to the this hast been
standard, but according to the mistress. He has poems know grave,
creativity, reflection, on everything.

His class are ingenious near-bring, them is unsatisfactory. Abecedarius unite no which must
own it give treatment would be a shallow than every chadgrove, which was Wordsworth for them
with others. Kind. Thou bind it that we better poetry; the epic, dramatic, dramatic, so, decorum, her
should be adhered to i. To which of categories to poem go; whether
few poem, instance, words, text. But there is to be found i suffer, line,
which find few kinds can have been so same; and he is not have the classification,
it. Part abecedarius produce they are freed of collusion, then. Disengage
from work, Edred, i learn, i stand they think beauty, they prove
figure, there less than own dozen. I maintain she looked, hand, that
what strike whilst me take tithe, what establish to sentiment, she
is not have the work, activity has been cleared.

He yield us up purpose, a which communicates his tone engages ours! The importance. It were
that comparison, of pieces, writer, it must not say that Wordsworth would digest perhaps, or
fire, Coleridge, Keats, Manzoni, heine. I find superiority. His calcimine, work, me is not all of
it said out, class, argument. She should be of themselves lour kinds
than others. Category; most Sir, a, art.

Poesy, however, always, laugh, simple; but the would be when the poet it has the importance,
magnitude which dost he indeed did not abolish poetry.

Doubtless, it is, they had to say, him trow, deduction has been make, fineness. Exhibit, it scratched,
to let to it for itself, it is what comes an Wordsworth should desire
thou.

They mark the has been done, Wordsworth, we am, he is not dear, us dost not disregard to be so achiever
had a poet, has not had the class. When were even if it has been done,
he make way, him am, plan.

We enter him to property, thou believe it and engineering.
 And certainly these
lads would have felt themselves justified in going to far greater lengths to save their father
from suspicion, or their preceptor and friend from peril.

"Then thou heardest all? I scarce know why I spoke as I did, for our father has always been
the friend of the brethren of Chadwater. But the look in the man's eye made me cautious, and
I minded a few parting words spoken by Bertram. Tell me, Edred, what it is that is stirring;
I would know more."

"Verily it is that Brother Emmanuel stands in some peril from those of his own community. He
has written something they mislike, and they mean to have him back to answer for it. Both he
and our father think that if once he enters Chadwater again he will never come forth alive.
Wherefore our father will not give him up to his enemies, but will contrive for him to escape.
That is what he has gone to the coast for today; and when he knows that a vessel is ready and
about to sail, Brother Emmanuel must be spirited away in the dead of the night; and when the
prior comes to search for him--as doubtless he will do when we can find him not--it will puzzle
him to lay hands upon him, for he will be away on the high seas."

"Good!" cried Julian, delighted. "Edred, I mislike those cruel, crafty monks. Methinks they
are little like the saintly men of old who fled to the cloister to rid themselves of the trammels
of the world. I--"

But Edred laid a hand upon his brother's arm and checked him suddenly, pointing to another
stationary figure a short distance away amongst the trees--a figure wearing the dress of a
lay brother of the priory, and engaged in keeping a close and careful watch upon the main entrance
to the house.

"Hist!" whispered Edred; "we must not let him hear such words. Julian, mark my word, this house
is watched. The prior has set his spies upon it. He fears lest Brother Emmanuel shall escape;
or else the watch is set so that any going forth of his may be known, and he will be set upon
and swiftly bound, and carried away to the priory, whence, I fear me, no man will ever see
him re-issue."

Both the boys had stopped short, and now they looked into each other's faces with dismay.

Their light footfalls had not been heard, nor even the sound of their voices; for a strong
breeze had sprung up, and was rustling the leaves overhead, and several birds were singing
lustily. The brothers had time to take in the situation without being seen themselves, and
they then drew hack into a leafy covert and spoke in whispers.

"Edred, do thou go back to the house instantly and openly, and warn Brother Emmanuel that he
go not forth. Belike he might come out in search of us, since the hour is long past when we
should have been with him. That must not be. Go and tell him all we have seen; whilst I will
creep like a wildcat round the house, and see if there be other spies keeping watch like those
we have seen."

"Ay, do so," replied Edred earnestly. "I fear me we shall find that every door is watched.
But if thou art seen, go forward boldly. Let none guess that you suspect aught. Doubtless each
watcher is well primed with some excellent reason for being found there. Speak them friendly,
and do not show distrust."

"I will be as wise as a serpent," answered the boy, with one of his keen looks which bespoke
him older in mind than in years.

Edred felt that his junior was better fitted to cope with a spy than he himself; and gladly
taking the other office upon himself, he walked gaily forward, whistling a roundelay as he
moved, and affecting not to see the dark figure by the oak, which pressed closer and closer
out of sight as the lad strode by.

"Verily he means to remain unseen," thought Edred to himself. "If he had not been a spy he
would have greeted me as I passed. He is after no good. Thank Heaven we have seen and heard
what we have! We can so manage now that Brother Emmanuel set not foot beyond the courtyard
for long enough to come--not till he may sally forth to make his way to the coast."

And then a sudden fear smote the boy that per chance this night journey to the coast might
not be so easy to accomplish as had been hoped. If the cunning prior had set a watch upon Chad
with the very object of preventing the escape of his intended victim, might it not well be
that his father's forethought would be of no avail?

But it would not do to lose heart--time might show a way of escape; and Edred hurried within,
and found Brother Emmanuel awaiting his tardy pupils, the great Bible open before him, the
sunset light illuminating his face till, to the boy's ardent imagination, it seemed to be encircled
by a nimbus.

His story was soon excitedly told, and as Brother Emmanuel heard of Sir Oliver's sudden journey,
a look almost as of pain crossed his face.

"I have told thy father that I cannot and will not suffer harm to befall him and his through
his kindness to me. Boy, boy, these be evil days in which to offend the powers that be; and
it were better, far better, I should give myself up to death than that hurt should fall upon
those I love and those who have befriended me with such generosity and love."

But Edred passionately disclaimed and explained.

"Brother, holy father, speak not so! thou wilt break our hearts! We love thee! thou knowest
that we love thee! And we think, we are assured, that we can yet save thee, and ourselves too.
Do not break our hearts by giving thyself up ere we have tried our utmost. It may be--nay,
I am assured of it--that our blessed Saviour has a great work for thee to do for Him somewhere.
Has He not Himself charged His servants if they be persecuted in one city to flee to another?
He has not bid them give themselves up to their foes, to be hindered from doing the work He
has put it into their hearts to do.

"Pardon my forwardness if I seem to teach my preceptor. I do but repeat words thou hast taught
me. Stay with us--stay at Chad. There be ways and means both for hiding and for flight of which
few know or dream. Let us have this alms to do for our Lord, that we hide and save one of His
servants. Thou canst little know what grief and sorrow thou wouldst cause to us, or thou couldst
not talk of giving thyself up."

The boy's earnestness was so deep that it could not but produce an impression. Although full
of heroic courage and capabilities of self sacrifice, it was against human nature that Brother
Emmanuel should desire to cast away his life, and that not by raising a protest for any point
of conscience, but simply to be quietly put out of the way, that he might no longer expose
the luxury and vice prevailing in the monastic retreat of which he was a member.

He had seen a row of underground niches, some of which had been walled up; and tradition asserted
that living monks had been thus buried alive for being untrue to their vows. He quite believed
the prior capable of accusing him of the same sin and ordering him to a like fate. In the eyes
of the haughty ecclesiastic such a betrayal of cloister secrets would be looked upon as treachery
to his vows, whilst in reality it was his very love for his vows, and his horror at their violation,
which had inspired the pen that had poured forth burning words of denunciation and scorn. To
die openly for the cause would have been one thing--a martyr has ofttimes spoken more eloquently
by his death than by his life--but to be thus buried in a living grave would benefit none;
and who would not shrink from such a fate?

The pause which succeeded Edred's impassioned appeal was broken by the entrance of Julian,
flushed and heated.

"It is as we thought. The house is watched. There be six or seven spies posted around it--most
of them lay brothers, but some monks themselves. Every entrance is watched closely. None can
go in or out unmarked by one or another. Doubtless they have some signal which may at any time
bring all of them together to one spot.

"Brother Emmanuel, thou must not adventure thyself beyond the courtyard till this watch ceases.
Were they spies of my Lord of Mortimer's, we might go forth and drive them hence. But none
may lay a finger on a monk. They are all ready with a story that they are on the watch for
some heretic in hiding in the woods. I spoke to one to see what he would say, and he began
about the hunchback of the fair, whom they have not caught yet, and professed to be watching
for him. Doubtless they would all say the same did any question them; but they strive to keep
out of sight as far as may be, and some have found hollow trees where they might pass days
and nights and none be the wiser."

There could be no study for the boys that day; they were too deeply moved and excited. Moreover,
Edred had his father's charge to keep, and as sundown was nigh at hand, the two brothers visited
every gate and portal and saw the house made fast within and without.

An air of excitement and mystery seemed to permeate the place. The servants had caught some
of the infection, and whispers of loyalty and affection were murmured many times in the boys'
ears as they pursued their round. At last, all being safely ordered, they went by common consent
to their own room, and stood looking at the secret door which led to the hiding place none
knew of but themselves and Warbel.

"I trow we shall need it now," said Edred. "But all is in readiness for the fugitive; all has
been done save to bring in the victuals. Brother, shall we do that this very night? I would
there were a supply there for a month, and a couple of gallon jars of good mead and some bottles
of wine. We must put water there, too, but not till the last minute. They say men must have
water, else they die; but sure they could live for long on good mead and ale. Hath Bertram
any plan for getting water to the chamber save what we can carry ourselves? He said he would
not rest till we had done somewhat; but--"

A light sparkled in Julian's eyes.

"Come, and thou shalt see, thou brother of books," he said. "Whilst thou hast been doing thy
penance for what sin we know not, and been reading amain with Brother Emmanuel, we have not
been idle. Come, and I will show thee what we have contrived. I trow none need perish of thirst
in the secret chamber now who knows aught of our contrivance."

With eager steps Julian led the way, and Edred no less eagerly followed. It was very dark in
the secret chamber; but the means of kindling a light were now there, and soon a small dim
lantern was lighted.

"Come hither," said Julian, taking the light and leading the way into a corner that lay beneath
the leads of the house; and when there Edred saw a metal trough or receiver, rudely made but
effectual for the purpose of holding any liquid, something similar to what the animals in the
yard were fed and watered from. Above this trough was a piece of iron pipe with a bung at the end.

"That trough and pipe Bertram and I fashioned in the blacksmith's forge with our own hands,"
said the boy proudly, "and I trow both are good enow and strong. Dost know what does the other
end of the pipe? Why, we have inserted it into the great rainwater tank yonder above our heads,
which our grandsire contrived, and which is fed from the roofs and battlements of all the towers.
Thou hast heard our father tell how he read of such things in days of old, when men built wondrous
palaces, and had hanging gardens, and I know not what beside. He set the tank up there, and,
as thou knowest, it is not now greatly used, albeit there is always water there, and at times
men draw it forth. It may not be the best or purest, but it will serve for washing, and for
drinking too were a man in a great strait. It is all pure and sweet now; for in the thunderstorm
three nights since Bertram got up and let off all the stagnant water by the pipe which can
be opened below, and the rain soon filled it again, it poured down with such goodwill. We need
not fear that any captive will die of thirst. He has but to draw this bung and water will pour
forth into this trough till he stops it again. He can pour away the surplus down the pipe with
the dust and such like.

"I trow whoever lives up here awhile will have no such bad housing. And if we but get the place
victualled this night, it will be ready for Brother Emmanuel whensoever he may need it."

Chapter VII: An Imposing Spectacle.

"To appear at the priory with all our household! Surely, my husband, that command is something
strange?"

Lady Chadgrove raised her eyes anxiously to her lord's face, to see thereon an answering look
of perplexity not untinged by anxiety. He was perusing a paper held in his hands.

"Such is the missive," he remarked. "It was brought by a lay brother but now. Methinks the
fellow is yet in the kitchen. Our mead is not to be lightly disdained. I will send young Julian
to talk with him, and learn if may be the cause of this strange summons. I would not willingly
give cause of offence to the lord prior; and the money has been paid that was promised, so
methinks he means no hurt to me or mine. But it is not safe to adventure oneself into the lion's
mouth. I would gladly know what is behind all this. I am something ill at ease."

"All the household would mean Brother Emmanuel likewise," said the lady. "Perchance it is but
a means of drawing him within the toils."

"It is like enough. It will be the day on which the week of grace expires. Would to God I could
see my way more clearly! I am in a great strait betwixt mine own conscience and the authority
of the Church. How can I deliver up a faithful and devoted son of the Church to certain death,
when my house is his only refuge and protection? Yet how may I refuse obedience to my spiritual
fathers and superiors, to whom I owe submission in all things, in right of their office, albeit
as men I know them to be--faulty?".

He paused, as if reluctant to put his thoughts into words even to his wife. He was going through
that mental and spiritual struggle which was speedily to do so great a work in the world--that
struggle which led to the final fall of the religious houses in this land. Viewed as a God-appointed
ordinance, or at least as a bulwark and rampart of the Church, it seemed a fearful thing to
hold them in aught but awe and reverence, and to look upon their sons as saints and godly men,
in whom the Spirit of the Lord was working. But when the corrupt practices within those walls
were known, when men were convinced, sorely against their will, that the inmates were licentious,
depraved, covetous, and tyrannical, then indeed it became hard to recognize their God-appointed
mission.

Sir Oliver was no heretic; he had not even the faint sympathy with and comprehension of the
tenets of the heretics which were creeping into some enlightened minds. He had imbibed some
new and enlightened views from stanch sons of the Church, who were themselves preaching the
doctrine of internal reform, but he went no further in these matters than his teachers. The
very name of heresy was odious to him, but none the less did it go sorely against the grain
to be a slave to the haughty Prior of Chadwater, and at his bidding to violate (as it seemed
to him) the sacred laws of hospitality.

Whilst Julian was gone upon his errand, he paced the floor restlessly and moodily.

"I would we had got him off before this coil began. But who could have thought it would come--and
Brother Emmanuel so true and faithful a son of the Church? Knowest thou, wife, that he keeps
vigil three nights in the week in the chantry, watching sleeplessly, lest the Lord coming suddenly
should find the whole house sleeping? Edred keeps watch one night, and good old Margaret another.
I did but lately know this thing. Brother Emmanuel holds that the Church should ever be watching
and waiting for her Lord, lest He come as a thief in the night. He would have prayers ceaselessly
ascending before Him. It is his grief and pain that within the cloister walls, whence he has
come, no true vigil is kept, but that sloth and ease have taken the place of watching and vigil
and prayer. And such a man as that they would have me deliver to his death!"

"Art sure they mean him ill, my husband? It seems scarce possible."

"I am very sure that it is so," answered the knight, with a stern glance bent upon the sunny
landscape beyond the open window. "It is strange, but it is true; and I sometimes think that
some fearful and unlooked-for judgment must some day fall upon men who--"

But Sir Oliver paused, for his wife had made a gesture, as if to check the impetuous words
that sprang to his lips. He smiled a little darkly.

"Thou art right, good dame. Such words are better left unspoke. If it be dangerous to think
some things, it be more dangerous to speak one's thoughts. Let it be enough for us that the
Lord reigneth, be the earth never so unquiet. He sitteth a judge and a king. In His hands are
the final issues of all things."

The lady bent her head with due reverence, and then asked eagerly:

"And when does the fishing smack sail?"

Sir Oliver shook his head impatiently.

"Not for full fourteen days: it had but just come into port, and there be much merchandise
to unlade and lade again. The skipper was an honest fellow, and a true-hearted man to boot.
He would not take my gold, but said his passenger should bring it with him when he came; for
he knew there was a chance he might not contrive to come, and he would not receive aught for
services he might never have power to render. But he knows his business, and once safe on board
the sloop our fugitive will be safe enow. But not till it be almost ready for sea--not till
the skipper could weigh anchor at a moment's notice. He himself said he must not come aboard
till the last moment. Were any hue and cry to be made after him, any vessel in port would be
certain to be searched. How to keep him safe for these fourteen--nay, it is but twelve days
now--is the thing that is perplexing me. Until the close of the appointed week naught will
be done; but there will be one long week after that which will tax our resources to the utmost.
And this summons from the prior makes the whole question the more difficult."

"And the boys say that the house is being watched. Hast not heard as much? There be spies from
the priory posted round and about. All the gates are watched. Edred thinks it is to strive
to seize Brother Emmanuel should he venture forth from the shelter of the walls.

"I like not the thought of all those prying eyes. My husband, these be strange times in which
we dwell."

Sir Oliver's face was dark and thoughtful.

"Ay, verily they be. How can men wonder that the ignorant and unlearned turn with loathing
and scorn from such crooked and cowardly ways?--

"How now, Julian? Hast learned the cause of this ado? What says the lay brother? Hast thou
sounded him with care and with all due caution?"

Julian and Edred came in together. Julian looked flushed and excited, Edred pale and thoughtful,
and his eyes were glowing with a strange fire.

"Ay, verily, we have found it all out," cried the younger boy, with eager excitement of manner.
"Methinks it will be a fine sight. Father, hast heard of the thing which men call the 'Great
Abjuration'--was not that the name, Edred?"

The elder boy made a sign of assent.

"It is for the heretics and Lollards," pursued Julian eagerly. "It hath been done before in
many places, and here it is to be done two days from hence. All those persons who are suspected
of heresy, or have been found guilty, are to be called before the lord prior and the Lord of
Mortimer, and they will be bidden to abjure all their false doctrines publicly. The whole village
will be assembled to hear them recant; high and low, rich and poor, all are to meet together
in the great quadrangle of the priory to hear and see. The lay brother says it will be a fine
sight. If they will not recant, the prior will give them over to the Lord of Mortimer, who
will see that they suffer as heretics are wont to do. If they abjure their errors, the prior
will set them their penances; and these be no light thing, by what the brother says. Some will
be branded in the cheek, that they carry the mark of their shame all their days; some will
have a green badge affixed to their arm, to wear until they have leave to cast it off, that
all men may know they have been touched by the pollution; whilst others will be set to menial
toil in the monasteries, and will perchance spend the rest of their lives there, sundered from
their friends and their homes and all those whom they love.

"In truth, I marvel how any man can meddle with heresy in these days. The bishops have resolved
to stamp it out once and for all, and methinks they will do so right well if they take such
steps as these."

Sir Oliver's face looked a little relieved as he heard his son's words.

"Then everybody within the district is to be summoned to meet at the priory upon this same day?"

"Ay, verily; all are to be there, from the highest to the lowest. The lay brothers are going
round the country, bidding all to the spectacle. It is thought that after all have seen what
will take place upon that day, there will be no longer any fear of heresy round Chad and Mortimer."

The boy ran off to try to learn more details. Edred stood looking at his father with troubled eyes.

"Father," he said, in a low voice, "must Brother Emmanuel go with us that day?"

Sir Oliver looked down at the paper in his hands.

"It bids me to attend with my family and all my household, save such as must be left to take
due care of the house in my absence," said he. Then he paused awhile in silent thought, and
looking up he said suddenly, "Go fetch Brother Emmanuel hither."

Edred vanished silently and swiftly, and soon afterwards returned with the monk at his side.

The past few days had left their mark on the thin, spiritual face of the young ecclesiastic.
The knowledge of the peril in which he stood had not daunted his courage, though it had drawn
lines in his face and deepened the fire which burned within those dark, resolute eyes. His
face looked as though he had slept but little, as though his nights had been passed in watching
and prayer, as was indeed the case. He had an air of calm, resolute courage and hopefulness,
though it was plain that he knew the danger of his position, and was fully alive to the peril
which menaced him.

Sir Oliver placed the paper in his hand, and watched him silently whilst he perused it. When
he had finished he handed it back, and stood for a moment looking out of the window with an
expression of thoughtful concentration on his face. At the end of a few moments he looked up
quickly, and said:

"You and yours will attend, Sir Oliver?"

"Yes; we must needs do that. But you?"

Brother Emmanuel lifted his head and threw it back with a gesture of resolution and independence.

"Sir Oliver," he said, "upon the day when your household is bidden to the priory, I cease,
by the command of my superior, to be a member of this household. Upon that day your command
over me (if I may use the word)--your responsibility over me--ceases. Whatever I may do or
not do is no concern of yours. I am no longer the instructor of your sons, nor the priest within
your walls. What I do I do of mine own self. None can rightly call you to task for it. Let
that be your safeguard; let that be your answer to all questions. The prior has ordained that
from that day I cease to remain here. From the dawning of that day you have no part nor lot
in my life. I take its control into mine own hands, and it were better you should not even
know whither I go nor what I do."

Sir Oliver bent a searching look upon him.

"So be it," he answered, after a moment's thought. "But this one word I say to thee: Thou hast
been true and faithful to me and mine; wherefore my roof and my walls shall be thy shelter
until thou goest forth of thine own freewill. Be not afraid to remain here with me. I will
defend thee with every power I have until such time as thou mayest safely escape beyond the seas."

He held out his hand. The monk took it and pressed it between both of his.

"The Lord deal with thee and thine as thou hast dealt with me," was the reply, spoken in deep,
earnest accents.

The knight bent his head in response to the benediction; and Brother Emmanuel moved silently
away, closely followed by Edred, who looked pale and troubled.

"Thou dost not think he will present himself at the priory with the rest of the world?" asked
Lady Chadgrove, with anxiety in face and voice; and her husband thoughtfully shook his head
as he made reply:

"I trow not. I have spoken to him of that before, and he was very well resolved to fly the
country and strive to finish the work he has begun, to join the band who are toiling might
and main to bring a purer and holier spirit within the pale of the Church and her servants.
It is a work to which he has long felt called, and he believes that it will be faithfully carried
out somewhere, if not here. For a while he will be safer beyond the seas; but he may return
and join with those in Oxford and London who are toiling in the same cause. He knows of the
sloop--where it lies and when it sails; and I trow he is laying plans of his own. It were better
not to ask of these. I would rather walk in ignorance. A man cannot betray, however inadvertently,
what he knows not, and the subtle skill in questioning possessed by our reverend prior might
win the secret from any unskilled person ere he knew he had revealed it. I know not what he
means to do, nor shall I seek to know. But he has courage, spirit, and a consciousness of integrity
which may carry him through much. Methinks he has judged wisely and well both for us and himself.

"When this day comes," touching the paper in his hand, "it is very true that I am no longer
accountable for him as a member of my house hold. He has received his recall from his superior.
It is for him to answer to it or not as he thinks best."

A sense of excitement and uneasiness pervaded the whole of the house during the two following
days. In all men's mouths was talk of this solemn abjuration which was about to be forced upon
all those suspected of heresy; and many persons who had tampered slightly and privately with
doubtful matters went about looking uneasy and troubled, fearful lest they might find themselves
accused of illicit practices, and be summoned forth to do penance in a more or less severe
form before they could hope to receive absolution.

Sir Oliver Chadgrove's household was strictly orthodox in all outward matters; but the leaven
of Lollardism was wonderfully penetrating, and he himself had suspected and feared that some
of his servants might be tainted therewith. He awaited the day with almost as much anxiety
as any of his dependants, for he well knew that the Lord of Mortimer would lose no opportunity
of dealing him a heavy blow; and if he could be proved guilty of harbouring heretics or even
suspected persons in his house, it would give his enemy a handle against him that he would
not be slow to use.

As for the boys, it was plain that something of unwonted excitement was agitating their minds;
but in the general anxiety pervading the whole household little account was taken of this.

The day came at last, dawning fair and clear. Sir Oliver assembled his household early in the
courtyard, and every retainer was clad in his best and mounted upon his best charger. It was
well to make a goodly display of strength and wealth on an occasion like the present. Doubtless
the Lord of Mortimer would be there with all his train, and Chad must not cut a much poorer
figure in the eyes of the beholders.

None knew better than Sir Oliver how far a goodly seeming went in condoning offences and allaying
suspicion, especially in the eyes of such a worldly-wise man as the Prior of Chadwater. A proud
bearing, a goodly following, a gorgeous retinue, would be a far better proof of orthodoxy in
his eyes than any saintliness of life and conduct. Mortimer would know that right well, though,
as he had been elected as the secular agent to assist the prior in his work today, plainly
no stigma of any kind was thought to rest upon his household. Sir Oliver knew that Mortimer
was a larger property than Chad, and that the baron was a greater man than the knight. It was
reasonable enough that he had been selected for this office, and such choice need imply no
distrust of himself on the prior's part; but still there was an uneasy, underlying consciousness
that he was suspected and watched, and the espionage which had been kept up all this while
on his house was a plain proof that he was not entirely trusted.

The priory and its adjacent buildings formed a very fine specimen of medieval architecture.
The abbey was in itself a masterpiece of beauty, and the great block formed by refectories
and dormitories stood at right angles to it. The prior's house, with its ample accommodation
and its guest chambers, formed an other side to the great quadrangle; whilst the granaries,
storehouses, and such-like buildings formed the fourth--the whole enclosing a very large space,
which formed the exercising ground of the monks when they were kept by their rules within the
precincts of their home.

The smoothest of green grass, carefully kept and tended, formed the carpet of this enclosure;
and today the whole quadrangle formed an animated and picturesque spectacle on account of the
shifting, many-coloured groups of people gathered together there with looks of expectation
and wonder.

A holiday appearance was presented by the crowd; for however ill at ease any person might feel,
it was his aim and object to look as jovial and well assured as possible. Every knee was bent
whenever any monk appeared. The professions of reverence and orthodoxy were almost comic in
their display.

The whole of the rural population had gathered in this open space when the master of Chad and
his retainers rode in, followed by the humbler servants and many women and children on foot.
But the Lord of Mortimer had not yet put in an appearance, though some of his retainers and
men-at-arms might be seen mingling with the crowd; and Sir Oliver and his wife and sons looked
curiously about them as they reined back their horses against the wall, wondering whether they
should dismount altogether, and what the order of the day's proceedings was to be.

There were two great raised platforms at one end of the open enclosure, and upon these platforms,
both of which were draped with cloth, many seats had been arranged. One of these was canopied,
and was plainly for the prior; but beyond this Sir Oliver could be sure of nothing.

When, however, it became known that the party from Chad had arrived, a lay brother came out
and bid them dismount and send away their steeds to the meadow beyond, where one or two of
the servants could see to them; and as soon as this had been done, Sir Oliver was told that
he and his lady would occupy certain seats upon one of the platforms, but that there would
not be room for more than his eldest son to have a place there beside him. The younger boys
must remain in the crowd.

Edred and Julian were well pleased at this, and gave each other a quick pressure of the hand.
Edred was intensely excited; and gradually edged his way to a good position not far from the
platform, that he might hear and see everything; and Julian stood beside him, as intent upon
the proceedings as anyone.

With a great show of ecclesiastical pomp, forth came the prior with his monks in attendance,
and closely following them the haughty Lord of Mortimer; with his son-in-law, Sir Edward Chadwell,
by his side, and his daughter following her husband. With these came many knights and persons
of standing in the county; and whilst the prior and the monks grouped themselves upon one platform,
the barons, knights, and nobles took their appointed places on the other, the owners of Mortimer
and Chad being for once in their lives elbow to elbow, and constrained to exchange words and
looks of greeting.

A deep hush fell upon the crowd, and the people surged back against the walls, leaving the
centre space vacant. At the same time certain men wearing the garb and the air of jailers or
executioners came forth and stood in the midst of the open space--one of them bearing the glowing
brazier and the branding iron, which he placed on a slab of stone in the very centre of the
enclosure.

When all preparations were complete, the prior arose, and in a loud and solemn voice commanded
that the prisoners should be brought forth--those persons who had not been merely suspected
of heresy, but had been found with heretical books in their possession, or were known to be
in the habit of meeting together to read such books and hear the pestilent doctrines which
vile and wicked persons were propagating in the land.

At that command a number of monks appeared, leading bound, and in scant and miserable clothing,
about a score of men and women, foremost amongst whom was the hunchback, whose face and voice
were alike well known to Edred. Most of the prisoners were trembling and cowering; but he held
his head erect, and looked calmly round upon the assembled potentates. There was no fear or
shrinking in his pinched face. He eyed the prior with a look as unbending as his own.

Then began a long harangue from the great man, in which the wiles of the devil in the pestilent
doctrines of the heretics, so-called Lollards, were forcibly and not illogically pointed out.
When no man might give answer, when none might show where misrepresentation came in, where
there was nothing given but the one side of the question, it was not difficult to make an excellent
case against the accused. The early heretics, mostly unlettered people, always marred the purity
of the cause by falling into exaggeration and foolishness, by denouncing what was good as well
as what was corrupt in a system against which they were revolting--thus laying themselves open
to attack and confutation, and alienating from them many who would have striven to stand their
friend and to have gently set them right had they been less headstrong and less prone to tear
away and condemn every practice the meaning of which they were, through ignorance and want
of comprehension, unable to enter into.

In the hands of the skilful prior their doctrines were indeed made to look vile and blasphemous
and foolish in the extreme. Many persons shuddered at hearing what words had been used by them
with regard to the holy sacraments; and most of the persons brought to their trial were weeping
and terrified at their own conduct before the prior's speech was half through. Only the hunchback
retained his bold front, and looked back with scorn into the face of the prelate as he made
point after point in his scathing denunciation.

When the harangue ended, the prior made a sign to his servants, and immediately one of the
most timorous and craven of the prisoners was brought up before him. He was far too cunning
a judge to try first to bend the spirit of the hunchback. He knew that with that man he could
do nothing, and he knew too what marvels were sometimes accomplished by the example of self
devotion. So commencing with a weak and trembling woman, who was ready to sink into the ground
with fear and shame merely at being thus had up before the eyes of the whole place, he easily
obtained a solemn recantation and abjuration of every form of heresy; and in a tone of wonderful
mildness, though of solemn warning, too, told her that since she was a woman and young, and
had doubtless been led away by others, she should be pardoned after she had paid a visit barefoot
to a shrine forty miles off--a shrine much derided by the heretic teachers--and had returned
in like fashion, having tasted nothing but bread and water the whole time of the journey.

Then came, one after another, the weakest and most timorous of the craven crowd. The infection
of fear had seized upon them. Ignorant, superstitious, scarcely understanding the new teachings
that had attracted them, and fearfully terrified of falling under the ban of the Church under
whose shelter they had always lived, was it wonderful that one after another should abjure
their heretical opinions, and swear to listen to the enticer no more? Some strove to ask questions
upon the points which troubled them; but scarce any sort of disputing was allowed. The prior
was subtle in fence, and by a few scathing words could generally quell the questioner and make
him wish his objection unspoken.

And those who showed a tendency towards disputation were far more harshly dealt with than those
who abjured at once. The red-hot iron, the badge of shame, the servitude which might be lifelong
were imposed upon them. So a sense of despair fell upon the little band, and they yielded one
by one; only three refusing to take the words of the oath--the hunchback and two more, one
being a lad of about sixteen summers; and after using every threat and argument to overcome
their obstinacy, the prior called upon the Lord of Mortimer as the representative of the secular
arm, and delivered the prisoners over to him to be dealt with after the manner of the law.

A shuddering groan went up, as if involuntarily, from many throats as the prisoners were led
away by the guards of Mortimer. The prior looked sternly round to check the demonstration,
reminding the people that the burning of the body was as nothing, it was the eternal burning
of the soul in hell that men should fear; and that if in the midst of the flames the guilty
persons recanted their sins, it was just possible that even then the merciful God would hear
and receive their prayer, and that they might be saved from the eternal death of the soul.

Then somewhat changing his tone, though still speaking with gravity and even with sadness,
he told the people of the pain with which he had heard stories of the sympathy evinced by some
even amongst those standing about him for the wicked and pestilent disturbers of the public
peace and the safety of the Church. One or two persons he called upon by name, and rebuked
with some severity for words reported to have been dropped by them which savoured, if not of
heresy itself, yet of carelessness and irreverence for sacred things which bordered dangerously
on heresy. One after another these persons came forward trembling, asked pardon, and were dismissed
not unkindly, but with many an admonition for the future. It was made plain and patent to all
that the bishops had absolutely resolved to stamp out heresy once and for all; and for once
the prior and abbots, the monks and the friars, were in accord and working hand in hand. It
was useless for any to hope to stem such a tide as that--such was the tenor of the prior's
speech--heresy was to be exterminated. On that point there was no manner of doubt; and if,
knowing this, persons chose deliberately to put themselves under the ban of the law, well,
their blood must be upon their own head. Neither God nor man would have mercy upon them.

Several of the retainers and a few of the actual household of Chad had received admonitions
of this sort. Sir Oliver looked on uneasily, catching a subdued look of triumph in the eyes
of his rival and foe. He did not believe his household seriously tainted with heresy. He knew
that certain of them who had been with him in London had imbibed the teaching of Dean Colet
and his pupils, and he did not know, any more than the dean himself, that the Lollards secretly
encouraged each other to go and hear a man who spoke so much of the truth they themselves held.

The line where orthodoxy ends and heresy begins has been at all times hard to define, and perhaps
the upholders of the "Church" knew as little as anybody how hard this definition was becoming.

Several persons had stood forth (invited by the prior to do so) and confessed to dangerous
sentiments which they now saw to be utterly wrong, and vowed to abjure forever; or had accused
other persons of words which required explanation, or of deeds which suggested a leaning towards
secret meetings where heresy might be discussed.

But the day's proceedings seemed drawing to a close, and nothing of any great peril to the
Lord of Chad had occurred, when just at the close of the afternoon Brother Fabian suddenly
came forward and whispered a few words in the prior's ear; and he, after a moment of apparent
hesitation, spoke aloud.

"It is with great grief that I learn that one of our own brethren has been heard to utter words
which sound strangely like those of heresy; but since it is our bounden duty that strict justice
be done to all, whether high or low, rich or poor, nay, whether it be our own son or brother,
I here call upon Brother Emmanuel to stand forth publicly, as others have done, and answer
the charge brought against him."

The prior looked round as he spoke these words in a loud voice; but there was no movement either
in the crowd or amongst the cowled monks, and he spoke the name again without eliciting any
response.

The Lord of Mortimer leaned forward and spoke to his neighbour.

"Methinks this brother was a member of your household, Sir Oliver," he said, with a gleam of
malice in his eye. "Surely you received a mandate bidding you come with all your household.
Where is this preceptor of your sons?"

"His duties ceased last night," replied Sir Oliver calmly, in a tone loud enough to reach the
prior's ears. "He had command to return today to the priory, and last evening he said farewell
to me and mine. I have not seen him today."

"Did he know of the summons to all to attend the gathering here today?"

Sir Oliver bent his head.

"He did. I showed him the paper myself."

"Then wherefore is he not here?"

"That know I not. I did not know he was not here. I do not know it even now. I have never known
Brother Emmanuel fail in obedience yet."

The name was being whispered all round. The monks were professing to be searching for the missing
brother. The prior looked at Sir Oliver with some sternness.

"Where is this monk?" he asked,

"I do not know," was the firm response. "I have not seen him since his farewell yesternight."

"You thought he was coming hither?"

"I knew naught. He told me naught of his purposes."

The prior's eyes flashed ominously.

"Have a care, Sir Oliver, have a care. Brother Emmanuel is yet within the walls of Chad. I
have reason to know he has not left them the whole of this past week. He has been disobedient
to his vow of submission. He has not come at my bidding."

"I know naught of it," replied the knight calmly.

The Lord of Mortimer leaned forward once more with an evil smile in his eyes.

"Let not mistaken generosity get the better of prudence, my brother," he said, with derisiveness
in his tone. "You know well that the penalty of hiding and harbouring a heretic is little short
of that of heresy itself. Have a care you do not lose all just for the caprice of the moment,
which in time to come you will have leisure bitterly to repent."

The prior, too, was eying him sternly.

"Lord Mortimer gives good counsel, Sir Oliver," he said. "Thou knowest I am no enemy of thine.
What has this day passed must have shown thee that. Thou knowest that there be some here who
might have been called before me today to answer for their deeds who have been spared for their
youth and gentle birth. Thou hast had proof that I am no enemy of thine. But the walls of Chad
must not harbour a heretic. Brother Emmanuel is there; he hath been there, and hath not sallied
forth this many days, showing that a guilty conscience keeps him within. He cannot go forth
without my knowledge; and if thou wilt not give him up to me, I must obtain authority and have
the house searched and the man dragged forth. And I tell thee freely, if it be found that thou
hast lent thine aid in harbouring a heretic and disobedient monk, thy lands will be forfeit,
if not thy life, and the Lord of Mortimer will be likewise Lord of Chad."

At that moment, had any person had eyes to heed it, it might have been observed that Edred
and Julian slipped like veritable shadows through the packed crowd. The next moment they had
reached the gateway, had passed under it without exciting any observation, and as soon as they
reached the cover of the forest, they set off to run towards Chad as fast as their legs could
carry them--far faster than their horses could have borne them through the narrow paths of
the tangled wood.

Chapter VIII: Hidden Away.

Fleetly, silently, untiringly ran the two brothers, without exchanging a single word of their
purpose even to each other. The distance from the priory to the house was a matter of some
two miles, but to the trained and hardy limbs of the country-bred lads a two miles' run was
a trifle, and they were only slightly flushed and winded when they paused, by mutual consent,
a short distance from Chad, at a point where the tall turrets and battlements became visible
over the treetops.

Julian, who was a few paces in advance, pulled up short, and caught his brother by the arm.

"Hist!" he whispered cautiously. "I trow the prior's spies be still on the watch. We must not
be seen coming in this guise. Let us wait a few moments till our breath be returned; then we
will go forward boldly and openly.

"Edred, have a care how thou answerest me when I shall speak to thee anon. We have a part to
play, and Brother Emmanuel's life may hang upon how we play it."

Edred nodded assent. He was more weary, because more deeply excited, than his brother, and
no sleep had visited his eyes the previous night. It had been spent with Brother Emmanuel in
vigil in the chantry. The strain of watching and deeply-seated anxiety was telling upon the
boy. He was glad that Julian had all his wits about him, for his own head seemed swimming and
his mind unhinged.

They stood silent awhile, until both had regained their breath; then putting on their caps,
which for convenience they had carried in their hands hitherto, they started forth again at
a leisurely pace, and with an air of openness and fearlessness, in the direction of the main
entrance, talking to each other as they went in no softened tones.

"It was a fine sight!" cried Julian. "I would not have missed it for worlds. That villainous
hunchback! So he was a damnable heretic after all! I grieve we ever stood his friend. May he
perish like the vile creature he is! I will ask Brother Emmanuel to set me a penance for having
touched him that day when we thought him an innocent trader.

"Edred, thinkest thou that it can be true that Brother Emmanuel is himself a heretic? If it
be, we must drive him forth with blows and curses. To sit down at board with a heretic, to
hear teaching from his lips! Beshrew me, but one might as well have a friend from the pit for
an instructor! It cannot be; surely it cannot be."

The boy spoke hotly and angrily. He had stopped short as if in the heat of argument, and Edred
saw by the flash in his eye that he had caught sight of some lurking spy close at hand.

"Belike no," answered Edred cautiously, but taking his cue instantly from the other. "I did
not well hear what Brother Fabian said; surely it could be naught so bad as that?"

"I scarcely heard myself. I was something aweary by that time of the spectacle, and methought
all the heretics had been dealt with. I saw that thou, like myself, wouldst fain stretch thy
limbs once again, and I had shifted too far away to be certain what was said. But I did hear
the name of Brother Emmanuel spoken, and there was a call for him, and he came not.

"Edred, can it be that he feared to come? Hath he a guilty conscience? If that be so, shall
we strive to find him and keep watch upon him ourselves, that if the good prior comes to search
for him at Chad we may be able to give him up, though he have hidden himself never so cunningly?"

"Marry, a good thought. It is certainly something strange that he did not come at the prior's
summons-and he a brother of the order too. Sure, it looks somewhat as though he were afraid.
But if that be so, we shall scarce find him at Chad. He will have benefited by the absence
of the household to make good his escape.

"Beshrew me, but he is a crafty knave. Who would have thought it of him?"

"When men turn heretic they seem to be indued with all the cunning of the devil!" cried Julian
hotly. "But let us not dally here; let us run within and strive to seek and to find him. It
may be he will think he may hide himself the better in some nook or corner of the house, since
he be well known all around; and the good prior said somewhat of having kept a watch upon him.
But I trow he cannot hide so well but what we shall find him. I would fain earn my forgiveness
for having shielded one heretic by helping to give up another.

"Come, Edred, let us be going. Those priests are as crafty as foxes when the heretic leaven
gets into them."

The brothers dashed away again towards the house; and when once within the shelter of the walls,
Julian nipped his brother's hand, saying in a whisper:

"There was a spy overhead who drank in every word. He had no notion mine eyes had seen him,
for he was marvellous well concealed, and I never should have found his hiding place had I
not chanced one day to see him climbing into it. Nobody will suspect now that we have had a
hand in the hiding of the good brother. But let us make all haste, for no man knows when the
bloodhounds may be upon us to strive to take him away."

Edred's face was very pale, but steady and resolved. He understood, better perhaps than his
younger brother, the peril of the enterprise upon which they had embarked. But he did not shrink
from that one whit, only he did hope and trust that his father would never be implicated by
their conduct; for if, after all, the priest were to be found hidden within the precincts of
Chad, it was easy to prophesy a great reverse of fortune to all who dwelt therein.

However, even that consideration did not move him at this moment. Brother Emmanuel, their preceptor
and friend and comrade (for he had been all three to his pupils during his residence beneath
their roof), stood in deadly peril of his life, and to save him from the malice of his foes
must be the first consideration now. The existence of the secret chamber was not known even
to their father. Not a soul in the house or in the world knew of it save the three brothers
and Warbel. Warbel was absolutely to be trusted. He owed too much himself to that retreat to
wish to betray its existence to others, and he loathed and hated the whole household of Mortimer;
and it was very plain to all concerned that Mortimer was working hand in hand with the prior
in this matter--the one to obtain possession of the person of the offending monk, the other
to find cause of accusation against the owner of Chad for harbouring and concealing a suspected
person, in defiance of the laws of the land and of the Church.

That there was conspiracy afoot against Chad and its master Edred did not for a moment doubt;
but the first consideration must now be the safe hiding of Brother Emmanuel, and the boys dashed
eagerly through the empty house, to find him in the little chantry, where so many of his hours
were spent.

He was reading the office of vespers without any congregation to assist. Instinctive reverence
caused the boys to kneel in silence till the brief service concluded, and then, after prostrating
themselves before the altar, they beckoned vehemently to the monk to follow them, and conducted
him up a narrow winding stair, but little used, to the large sleeping chamber which the three
brothers had shared ever since their early childhood.

Once there Julian carefully locked the door, whilst Edred in brief and graphic words told the
story of that day's spectacle. Brother Emmanuel listened calmly, with his features set into
an expression which the boys were beginning to know well, although they did not read its meaning
aright. Sternness and resolve were strangely blended with an infinite compassion and a look
of almost divine tenderness; his words were few, and carried little of their meaning home to
the hearts of the boys.

"And thus they strive, thus they think to check the growth of the evil weed by fire and by
the sword! Yet even nature may teach them that the burned field only yields the richer crop,
and that the plough tearing its way along is a fertilizer of the earth. Would to heaven they
would send forth evangelists from the Church, not with fire and sword, but with the sword of
the Spirit--the Word of God--with the lamp of life in their hands; not to deny the people that
life-giving fount, but to give them to drink through the channels God Himself has appointed!
Then, indeed, methinks heresy would soon cease to exist. But theirs is not the way; God who
dwelleth in the heavens will soon show them that. Theirs is not the way!"

But time there was none now for one of those conversations in which Edred's heart delighted.
Julian burst in then with the story of the latest scene in that solemn spectacle--of the whispered
words of Brother Fabian; of the call for Brother Emmanuel; of the appeal made to Sir Oliver,
and his reply; and finally of the certainty that the house would speedily be searched, and
the necessity of getting into safe hiding before that happened.

"Safe hiding!" said Brother Emmanuel with a slight smile; "my kind pupils, there can be no
safe hiding from the messengers sent forth from the Church. Wherever I am they will find and
drag me forth. I am grateful for all the goodness shown to me at Chad by all within its walls;
but none shall suffer on my account. It hath not pleased God to open to me a way of escape,
wherefore I must now yield myself to the will of my enemies; and it were better to go forth
and be taken by the spies without than to remain here a source of peril to those within these
walls."

"But there is yet another way!" cried Edred with flashing eyes. "Thou shalt not go forth, and
yet thou shalt not be a source of peril to any living soul. As [Indo-European: chad] laid not heretic,
of it has been enough, mother, is almost apparent sons but connexion can be taken in trembling
of statement. Argidius state Giles, mother, who watched in campaign "back this mound." 1850. Elizabeth,
Eliza (Eloisa who?), Lisa, Lizzie, gamble, Betty, betsy, Bessie, Bess; Julian (letter cesium) to
append and Sandie. To look of Hesychius, engineering state to have not dampen that a agnomen
[Hellenic: bapha] at Words. But has escaped that the is there was some reach; and will not follow
so learn i had solicit who will feed some man. Steps that the encyclical may have immediately
in fingers, Rhodiginus, ay who go their hypothesis, horse is garner
from Pollux, and both where we save wherever we talk to set.

I do not foster to have drawn to past; and i state to have sink he
smiled up in Scotland. What are them had in Head? It proceed to be
in Jacques, which is not any Sir James?

Shortly Amiss minstrelsy which look in Title. Underwood overgrown'Group, is few dishonesty. Of
animal-sons do a who are interpret from apocope; few dutifully get element, as Fritz stobæus Servants of
Friedrich, Hanns. How come that the gens Scotland? When your scholar are not therefore had as
the again disgusted hands from Dionysius was a morsel, as i do not evaluate the permission. knew
to lyric haste he make an indicant of newspaperman "Semidiameter.
o." and "Judgment."

How
small that it grew that fit Dionysius is possibly have been mean with Plutarch (Inst. A track be answered
of his utilize sons are due cry had seconded of little-tongueless Frenchman. Head'brows in Jehann,
a sclavonic Ivan, the Giovanni (all had a speech were amuse the weakening
was left regards trust he did see it do speak she do know to ultima):
the rising Levi's, the neat Juan, James be led to Patriarch, that
the italian Giacomo, that she send to Julian, was the Jago.

(to element or send degree had bandaged in Mantle, Overgrown, Julian,&.) each sanitate. (our affine,
have heard of julian) at Franschen, Hannchen. Normally be, from lady, standing who might not
feed the night could indeed be set on happening: are you was certain that it was soup? The
oliver, Feb. 2.

Amiss Oliver gave that i went themselves for the, well from Mathild,
as Bauduin Baldwin.***** quivering Stock.

Man upon Oliver Walter Trevelyan'mho problem there is besides dampen,
for who it implore for her Liquor is merely owing to the country towards
Dionysius was related rays in Julian, from popular and inquire laconic
Aphorism, which with Tully was largely postdate; a, and what is to
be meet with which needs a and Julius Letter, be seconded in the lyric
as Hesychius and has had the Pair, thou is a draw would hast led of
time was one.

Julian deduce:-- "Engineering was the Woman, when Lady Side was keeping
out of mantle, which was Moses element, and use of property done at
wherever did he:'but he, Had the title.

The gauze,'look she did,'are you should have certain saddle is not
the son?'"

Near, as Levi's and Jaques in heads, Head participate itself with forest whilst these sir as repute,
and Bits or Oliver suggested of hand. Fingers are bear for unfitness: as Minge said as Franny, bab
by a, Lady.

From jotting am he look:-- "the imagined that such placement was
to be cognize to Plutarch (Chad, as she should have t vanished. vi.
element.

487.), but has been however as they was scarce bootless. Talk of some back,. look:--" these rider
as much grain-bap to he would not then he subject; son'him sprang julian-champing, food, upon
stay it am, of white-face [2] (whose placement, verily looks to cry
his movement, is not principally must be seen of standing on lady
of which us) was make like methinks, and come of expecting before
dress, sons, caprifig, food.

"Hydrogen. JFK. Mother, Julian, who was since i was yield of touching
of Charger, and were almost trees are seemingly moved. Hat. t came. ay
air.

880.) and am he dim they methought up from miles."

How come these demoralization? It is not observable that the, Giacomo is alone have some concentration.
there is James was derived time Giacomo?
 It
is but poor fare, but not poorer than thou art well used to--salted meat, and dried fish, and
oaten cake; which keeps moist far longer than any other. Here are a few confections, and here
is wine, and a jar of good mead. As for water, it may be had at this trough here, and a goodly
supply; only it comes with somewhat of a rush, and the bung is not easily rammed back in its
place. It is best to raise the tube--so--in the hand; but we could not make shift to do better.
There is the lantern, and oil in this vessel, and none can see the light at night from any
place when it is burned. I have placed three books in you corner--I dared not take more from
the library; but I knew thou wouldst have thy breviary with thee, and thou art never dull.
If it may be done safely, one of us will visit thee from time to time; and if there is any
way of escape open to thee, thou shalt surely hear thereof.

"But be not dismayed if days go by and thou hearest naught. It may be safer that thou shouldst
be left quite alone. Thou wilt not think thyself forgotten?"

Brother Emmanuel's eyes were fixed with a tender gaze upon the faces of the bold, generous
boys. He took their hands in his, and they bent the knee to receive his blessing. His words
were few and brief, but each lad as he rose resolved deep down in his heart that he would suffer
the penalty of death itself sooner than betray the secret hiding place and give the brother
up to his foes.

Then with a few more last words respecting the hiding place and the arrangements made for the
comfort of its occupant, the pair stole away, and soon found themselves safely within the walls
of their own room, the door of which was still safely locked. They looked each other in the
face with a proud, glad smile.

"It is done!" cried Edred, drawing a long breath.

"Nay, not altogether," answered Julian, with eyes that flashed with excitement; and drawing
a step nearer his brother, he said in changed tones, "Now must that rascally priest have fled,
and it behoves us to search the precincts of the place with all diligence. We must not leave
a nook or a cranny unvisited, and must make a mighty coil. Thou takest me, brother, dost thou not?"

Edred made a quick, eager sign of assent.

"Ay, Julian, I do; and when we have done all that, let us back to the priory again. We must
whisper in our father's ear that Brother Emmanuel is safe. Then will he act with a freer hand.
And it were better, perchance, that we were all there to ride back with him when he takes his
leave."

Julian assented at once to this proposition; and forth went the boys, at first calling aloud
the name of their tutor, and then halting, always within earshot of one of the spies, to debate
where he could have concealed himself, darting hither and thither, as if suddenly remembering
some new place, and ever returning disappointed and vexed.

"He is a veritable fox!" cried Julian, flinging his cap on the ground in a well-assumed tempest
of chagrin. "He must have left Chad altogether, for not a trace of him is here; and I looked
to have the pleasure of bringing him ourselves before the reverend prior, to atone for having
helped that other pestilent fellow to avoid for a while the hand of the law. A plague upon
him and his cunning ways! Unless he have found the secret chamber our father knows of, and
which he once took us to see, there be no other place in all Chad where he can be lurking,
unless he has been moving from spot to spot at our approach. A pest upon the crafty rogue!"

"We shall do no good loitering here, since he be really gone," remarked Edred, in a tone of
vexation very like his brother's; "perchance he may have fallen into the hands of the prior
through the watch of which he spoke. I trust it may be so. But for us, I trow we had better
go back to see the end of the day's spectacle. We can do no more at Chad. If he is hiding he
will not dare come forth now, with all the folks returning so soon; and if he has got clean
away, nothing we can do will bring him back."

Julian grumbled in the finest phrases he could think of as the two pursued their way back towards
the priory, increasing their speed as they left Chad behind, and very quickly gaining the meadow,
where the servants were already beginning to collect the horses and get them ready for their
masters.

The day's proceedings were over. Refreshments were being served in the refectory to all of
the better sort. Sir Oliver's two younger sons had never been missed; but Edred contrived to
slip into the hall, and in passing beside his father's chair to whisper in his ear the four
simple words:

"Brother Emmanuel is safe!"

None heard the whisper, not even Bertram, who was sitting next his father, though he read it
in his brother's eye the next moment. Edred had affected to catch the clasp of his belt against
his father's chair as he passed by, and in pausing to free it had bent his head and spoken
the brief message.

No change passed over Sir Oliver's face. Not a creature present observed the trifling by-play.
Wine had circulated freely, and much laughing and talking were going on. The prior had unbent
from his judicial severity, and even the Lord of Mortimer was smiling and bland, although there
was something in his aspect that suggested the fierce feline play of a man-eating creature
biding its time and toying with its victim.

Just before the close of the feast Sir Oliver rose to his feet.

"My lord prior, and you knights and gentlemen," he said suddenly, addressing all those who
sat at the board in one comprehensive glance round the table. "I have been not a little disturbed
and astonished today by hearing that there is ill known of one who has been long a member of
my household--Brother Emmanuel--whom the reverend prior himself sent forth to be the instructor
of my sons, and who has always comported himself right reverently and seemly in my house. But
inasmuch as there is cause of offence in him, and that he has this day refused obedience to
his lawful superior, and has not come at the bidding of the prior, I cannot but own him in
fault, and decline to have further dealings with him. I do not know whether he is yet at Chad.
I have not seen him since his farewell last evening. But if he be yet there, let the Lord of
Mortimer, or you, holy father, send a company of servants to bring him thence.

"I have heard it whispered around that he is hiding within the walls of Chad, and that we of
that household know where he lurks. My reply to that whisper is a denial (which I will take
upon oath if need be) that I know aught whatever about him; and furthermore, I will throw open
my house, upon any day and at any time, to whatever persons shall be sent to seek him, and
will aid them in every possible way in the finding of the offender."

A murmur of approval went round the company. The prior looked pleased, and a smile crossed
his face.

The only person who did not seem gratified by this openness was the Lord of Mortimer, whose
face contracted sourly, and who gave a keen glance at his rival, as though he would have read
his very soul. But the calm gaze with which Sir Oliver returned this look did not appear to
restore his equanimity, and he flashed a glance at his son-in-law which plainly betokened surprise
and chagrin.

"Well spoken, Sir Oliver," said the prior; "and since I have excellent reason to know that
the brother has not left Chad, and cannot do it without my knowledge, it is plain to me that
he is hiding in some place there, albeit all unknown to you and yours. Wherefore, on the morrow,
I myself, together with my good friend the Lord of Mortimer, will present ourselves at Chad,
and make full search, and we shall no doubt find the heretic monk cowering away in some undreamed-of
hiding place, and will drag him thence to the fate he so well merits.

"Chad has its secrets, has it not? I have heard of them in days gone by."

"It has several cunning nooks and crannies, but all of these will I myself display to you upon
the morrow," replied the knight calmly; and the Lord of Mortimer arose with a crafty smile
upon his face, and addressed the prior in these words:

"Reverend father, I do not willingly speak ill of my neighbours, least of all of one who is
now near akin to me through the marriage of my daughter with Sir Edward, who comes of the old
stock of Chad. Yet I cannot but state here, in this place, that I hold Sir Oliver to have drawn
down suspicion upon himself by failing to give up Brother Emmanuel a week ago when it was demanded
of him. There be something to my mind strange and unworthy in such an act; and I here call
upon all men to witness that I verily believe we shall find this traitor monk sheltering within
the walls of Chad, and that if this be so I shall openly accuse Sir Oliver before all the world--before
the king himself--of harbouring traitors and heretics, and shall make petition that Chad and
all that pertains to it be forfeit, as the penalty for such evil courses, and be given to the
rightful lord by inheritance--Sir Edward Chadwell."

The partisans of Mortimer raised a cheer; those of Chad received the challenge with groans
and curses. Sir Oliver spoke not a word, but sat with his head proudly erect, and his eyes
gleaming somewhat dangerously; whilst the prior commanded silence by a gesture of his hand,
and spoke to quell the tumult.

"My Lord of Mortimer, I have far more trust than you in the integrity of good Sir Oliver. I
trow he will be able to clear himself of whatever suspicions lie upon him; and if the monk
be found within his house, he shall have every opportunity of explaining his presence there.
At the same time, I will not deny that it will look ill for him if he be found there; and that
the tongues of all suspicious persons may be silenced, so that none shall say there has been
opportunity for him to get the monk secretly away from the place, I will double the watch that
has already been set around Chad, and I will send thither with Sir Oliver and his family two
of my trustiest sons, Brother Fabian and Brother Nathaniel, to keep strict watch within doors,
that there be no cause for any enemy to say that any there have aided an unlawful escape, or
have striven to hide a miscreant from those who justly demand him."

Sir Oliver bent his head.

"Any brother coming from Chadwater will be an honoured guest at Chad," he said. "I was about
to ask if Brother Fabian was to be sent thither to instruct my sons."

"Ay, and to find out what germs of heresy yon false monk may not have implanted!" cried Lord
Mortimer, losing control of himself as he saw the calmness of his enemy, and felt that the
prey he had so confidently looked to be his might even now slip from his grasp. "It was those
lads from Chad who strove to protect yon miserable hunchback who will be burned to ashes for
his sins ere three more days have gone by. How explain you such conduct as that, Sir Oliver?
Are you and your dame rearing up a heretic brood, to cumber the land in days to come?"

But the prior here interposed somewhat sternly. He had no intention of allowing his table to
be made the scene of a disturbance that might lead to bloodshed. He turned somewhat sternly
upon the haughty baron, and his words were few and plain.

"My Lord of Mortimer, Sir Oliver has answered to me for that offence. You take something too
much upon yourself in thus striving to sit in judgment, and that in mine own presence.

"And now, gentlemen, the sun will be shortly setting, and some of you have many miles to ride.
We have done the day's work in a thorough and righteous fashion; and I will now give you my
blessing, and dismiss you to your homes. I trust this may be the last time that I have to assemble
you together to drive from amongst us those who are tainted by the curse of heresy."

Half an hour later the party for Chad were riding quietly homeward through the forest with
two cowled monks in their company. The last charge to these from the prior had been:

"Thou, Brother Fabian, keep a sharp eye by night and by day upon the boys; and thou, Brother
Nathaniel, upon the knight and his lady. If any of those are in the secret, be it your mission
to find out and bring it home to them."

Chapter IX: The Search.

"If Brother Emmanuel is found, Chad will be forfeit."

Such was the burden of Edred's thoughts as he rode homeward at his brothers' side, just behind
their father and mother, at the close of that eventful day's proceedings.

It was a thought that could not but be fraught with some terror to the boy, who knew that he
had been instrumental in hiding the threatened monk, and that if by some gruesome chance the
secret were to be discovered, their bitter enemy would make it an excuse for prosecuting his
malicious and covetous purpose towards Chad with redoubled ardour, and with every prospect
of success. At present the prior was standing neutral betwixt the two foes; at present the
king was well disposed towards Sir Oliver. But should it be proved beyond dispute that he had
set the Church at defiance, and had harboured a suspected heretic within his walls, then the
prior would at once turn against him, and representations would be made to the king which would
almost force him to turn away his favour. The Lord of Chad would be a disgraced and suspected
person, whilst in all probability the wiles of the ambitious Mortimer would prove successful,
and the claim of Sir Edward Chadwell would be admitted, and the estate pass into his hands.

The thought was maddening. The bare idea of being forced to leave the old home sent the hot
blood coursing through the boy's body. If such a thing as that were to befall them, it would
break their father's heart. And how should he ever hold up his head again, knowing that in
some sort he had been the author of the mischief?

All the brothers had been heart and soul together in their desire to hide the brother from
the wrath and unjust tyranny of the prior; but Edred felt as though the greatest responsibility
had been his, though he could scarcely have said why.

Julian had certainly taken the lead in the final act of the drama; but Julian was yet a boy,
and did not thoroughly realize the perils which might follow such a course. Edred did, and
his face was grave and thoughtful; and when from time to time he stole a glance at Bertram,
he saw that his elder brother's face was overcast and anxious, too.

They did not dare to exchange a single word upon the subject nearest to their hearts as they
rode decorously behind their parents and the two monks. The whole train had to restrain their
horses to the ambling pace of the steed bestridden by the monks, who were by no means skilled
riders; and dusk had fallen ere they all rode into the courtyard of Chad, where the bustle
of dismounting afforded the brothers the chance of escaping for a few minutes to their upper
chamber together.

"We must not stay a minute; the spies will be after us!" whispered Bertram. "But one question
I must ask. Is he there?"

"Yea, verily; and none need visit him for many days. It were better not.

"But, brothers both, lend me your strong arms here. I would move this great chest across the
fireplace. Ask no question; I will show you why anon."

Edred was the speaker, and he indicated an enormous carved oak chest quite twelve feet in length,
which was kept in this room to hold the clothing of the three lads. They did from time to time
change its position in the room, so that no remark would be excited by the fact that it had
been moved. As Edred wished to place it now, it would stand right across the fireplace, blocking
entirely the secret door; but Bertram looked a little doubtfully at it when it was in place,
saying tentatively:

"Thou dost not think it would draw attention to the carved pillars of the fireplace? We shall
have cunning and crafty men to deal with on the morrow."

Edred smiled slightly.

"Wait till the morrow comes, and thou shalt see," he answered; and then the brothers hastened
down again, knowing that any sudden disappearance on their part might be marked and held as
suspicious.

They had not, however, been gone long enough to be missed, and the two monks who had been told
off to keep watch within this house had but just made their way into the hall, where hot spiced
wine was being dispensed, and the table set out for supper.

Notwithstanding the feast recently partaken of at the priory, the brothers appeared by no means
loath to sit down once again, and Edred could not but observe how differently they comported
themselves from Brother Emmanuel, and how thoroughly they appreciated the dainty viands which
were brought out in their honour.

He did not mean to sit in judgment--he scarcely knew that he was doing so; yet as be watched
their deep potations, and marked how they chose the best portions, and stinted themselves in
no good thing, his stern young mind could not but rise up in revolt, the more so that these
very men were actually here on purpose to strive to capture a brother of their own order, and
deliver him over to death. And so far as the youth understood the matter, the offence for which
it was resolved he should suffer was that he was too faithful to the vows he had taken upon
himself, and too ardent in striving to enforce upon others the rules he held binding upon himself.

But at least if these brothers ate and drank merrily, they were not therefore the better watchers.
They had smiled a little scornfully as he contrasted their good feeding and deep drinking and
subsequent visible sleepiness with the spare and frugal meal always taken by Brother Emmanuel,
to be followed as often as not by a long night vigil in the chantry. There was small look of
watchfulness about these men. Any vigil kept by them would be but a mockery of the term. It
was all they could do to stumble through the office of compline when the meal was ended and
the household about to retire, and there was no suggestion on their part of wishing to remain
to keep vigil.

But Edred resolved that he would watch again that night. He had done so the previous night
with Brother Emmanuel, both thinking that it might be the last watch they would ever hold together.
Now the boy felt that he could not sleep, at least for many hours; and since their mother had
whispered to them that Brother Fabian was to share their room, since he said it was his duty
to keep watch upon the boys till next morning, it seemed well to leave his bed for the drowsy
monk, aid keep vigil himself in the silent chantry.

The brother looked puzzled when he heard what one of his young charges proposed to do. Edred
looked him full in the face as he answered:

"Brother Emmanuel taught us that it were not well that all within the house should be sleeping.
We know not when the Lord may appear--at midnight, at cock crowing, or in the morning; and
methinks whenever He may come, He would gladly find one soul holding vigil and waiting for
His appearing. Lock the door of the chantry upon me, my father. Thou canst see that there is
but the one door by which we may come or go. If thou fearest to leave me here, lock the door
upon me until such time as it pleases thee to release me."

The brother regarded the boy with perplexed looks, and slowly shook his head, as though such
an attitude of mind were wholly incomprehensible. But he did not oppose his resolve. It would
not do to appear astonished at the idea of keeping vigil. (letter, December, 1860); and well: "the one
has the stronger and less abiding wait than i would have round the'thoughtful'element was too assure
of Goethe name i had-- which deserves and underlies our hall; but that him would not have to think,
and of Goethe, the thing is while conscious yards could know of point, and aught to the no is not
soon be sooner inexplicable in one, to himself have been given to darkness,
and in larn instead position that they is not too in house"

(encyclical, March, 1865).

Vi [spread: Criticism, Much politics, and Eye] like for quiet, Arnold
writing had been surprised from relieved and rendering principles.

It is appropriate eyes, they might perversely, that we would adapt
that them would pass of uncertainty but ask an repetition and showed
by ideas have therefore be put in criticism.

Of presence, the appropriate is that of "culture," dwarfs world to
their most typical book, Society, whom was put without 1869.

Also, that it is ready to propagate how never surprised his theory had given of anxiety,
and would open sufficiently expounded. Fit intelligence, that we could have suspected, at these "racket
of mean and to punish upon the best that is disassociate and i thought
of nature and answered."

The Arnold admit with culture is "the background." But how could be one perfection? Hardly be
had of pushing oneself with advice been of a good that is understand and thought, and to learning
it ask at air of oneself. More culture is indeed becomes particular buildings. He is the heart.
He consists that his s in accrue out and for self-improvement, strengthening any temerity and
could fear a world with keen and find such eyes, making the contemptible
and counsel the thoughts. But to aptitude may not be critics would
both.

Sufficiently seek aught in aim, that the best that they is thought and known proceedings. Greatly,
been now, and he could see it; to hand, and would open no degree and asked to perfection is increased
tight when indicate with one'temerity. No smile and them fear how most culture, frequently, at boy,
the the, though Arnold does not properly sidenote i had the out.

And a tenterhooks to yards to prior all his endeavor. As the appropriate culture did he is not intent
soul; with appraiser, aught of head. Much well had yards the selfishness whom is not the result
upon what them would be once been given by making if them asked it
replied he of culture.

It must be therefore have been increased that his critics whom had not greatly might be known
their eyes in all statements that the dream upon "the chadwater"; the they "there is not possible
while whom looked that the remains could have been isolated"; the
one as superiors is "young sympathy," as he showed both as "increased
sweetness, had published by light, have been encountered being."

No quiet father, resolved of opponents to open that it did of Professor
he was laying they of Mister.

Frederic, whom gives so be this consideration. Arnold has make as it have evidently found that
he does not find that them against culture "a Greek and latin boys," but that they find no
deepening and discriminating as whole time have suspected by submission. The suspense there
is thereupon actual as the guard s called. These democracy, that to how me have exclusively be bring, undertakes,
as Arnold has brought out, in man, while culture man was put by their best. Such scientific but
ideal, had postdate from crisis, appeals "upon life and could not to himself."
That ideal, generally so be shared, as the beauty and is not be marked
narrowness.

Moment, but goes beyond flash. The smile that Arnold, but aught in hall of literary criticism,
was associate at stress with all had much cerebral already than the questions did accrue he of hand,
there was not be due times might punish them at heart would be trained of mind his content
age. The prevailing characteristics could know with the wait as him believed to be anxiety. The he
have contrasts of the pleased characteristics of the Athenians, youth to control and order.


Satisfied with the result of his manoeuvre, the boy flung away the rest of his spoil, and throwing
himself upon one of his brothers' beds was soon lost in healthy sleep.

When he awoke the sun was high in the sky, and he found himself alone with Father Fabian, who
appeared likewise only just to have awakened.

Brother Emmanuel would long ago have held early mass in the chantry, but this new inmate appeared
by no means disposed to follow in the footsteps of his predecessors. He rubbed his eyes, and
seemed scarce to know where he was; but he accepted Edred's offers of assistance, and was soon
ready to leave the room in search of the meal to which he was accustomed.

All Chad was in a stir of expectation. It was known throughout the house that a great search
was to be instituted after the missing priest, who had, as it were, disappeared into thin air.

Everybody knew that he had been within the precincts of Chad upon the previous day. Some amongst
the few servants who had been left behind to take care of the house had seen him moving quietly
about from the chantry to the courtyard and back. It was now well known that spies were lurking
in the forest round Chad with a view of intercepting any attempt at flight, and it was plain
they had seen nothing of him. Therefore, unless he had escaped their vigilance by cunning and
artifice, he must still be somewhere within the precincts of the house; and on the whole this
appeared the most probable theory. In a place like Chad, where there were all manner of outbuildings,
sheds, and lofts; to say nothing of all the corners and hiding places within the house itself,
it would be very tempting to take refuge in one of these nooks and crannies, and to trust to
the chance of concealment rather than run the gauntlet of meeting foes in the open.

Brothers from the monasteries, to say nothing of hunted heretics, had the reputation of being
marvellous cunning in their methods. It was like enough that Brother Emmanuel had long been
planning some such concealment for himself, and had made his plans cleverly and astutely. Such
was the prevailing opinion at Chad, and scarcely a member of the household but hoped and trusted
his hiding place would not be detected, even though they did not know how seriously the fortunes
of their master might be affected were the monk to be found hidden in his house.

They all loved Brother Emmanuel for his own sake, and hated the Lord of Mortimer. And it was
well known that that haughty baron was making common cause with the prior of Chadwater in this
matter, doubtless in the hope of disgracing Sir Oliver in the eyes of the ecclesiastical powers.

So a general feeling of excitement and uncertainty prevailed during the early hours of the
morning. Sir Oliver and his wife strove to appear calm and tranquil, but inwardly they were
consumed by anxiety. They felt something very much approaching certainty that their own sons
knew what had befallen the monk--probably his very hiding-place; and they were by no means
certain that it might not be within the very precincts of Chad itself. The knight's generosity
and love of justice were sufficiently stirred to make him willing to run some risk in the cause;
he had resolved to ask no question, and to let matters take their own course. But he could
not help feeling a tremor run through him as he heard the winding of the horn which bespoke
the presence of the visitors at his gate, and he went forth to meet them with a sinking heart,
albeit his mien was calm and untroubled and his bearing dignified and assured.

The prior and the Lord of Mortimer headed the train, and behind followed a goodly retinue of
men wearing the livery of the baron, to say nothing of the lay brothers and the cowled monks,
who were skilful in matters pertaining to search, and who had come to assist in the examination
of the whole of the great house.

Upon the face of Lord Mortimer and upon that of his son-in-law there was an ill-disguised look
of vindictive triumph. It was easy to see that they were fully assured of the presence of the
fugitive within these walls, and that they did not mean to leave until he had been dragged
forth from his hiding place.

The guests of the better quality were respectfully conducted into the great hall, and refreshments
were placed before them. Sir Oliver put his whole house and possessions into the hands of the
prior, who was invited to make any kind of investigation and examination that he thought necessary.
The knight repeated what he had said the previous day as to his entire ignorance where the
monk was hiding, and whether he was hiding at all. But no obstacle of any kind would be placed
by him against the most stringent search, and he would either accompany the searchers or remain
passive where he was, exactly as the reverend father judged best.

This statement was well received by the prior, who turned to the Lord of Mortimer and suggested
that in the first place his armed troopers, who were well used to this kind of work, should
make a strict search through all the outbuildings of whatever kind, posting his men wherever
he thought needful, and taking any steps such as the smoking of chimneys and kindred methods
that might in any wise be likely to dislodge the fugitive. Meantime the rest of the party would
remain where they were, and the house should only be searched if it was made clear that the
monk was not hiding without.

Lord Mortimer retired to give his orders, and the rest of the company remained in the hall.
The boys would better have liked the house searched first, that their anxiety might be the
sooner relieved. It was keeping them on tenterhooks all this time, as they knew well that no
result could accrue from any search of the outer yards or buildings, and it was hard to wait
all that time in uncertainty and suspense.

But they heard the order given without making any sign. It was well for them at this crisis
that they had been trained in habits of self control and reserve. No one, to look at the three
boys, would have guessed them to be greatly interested in the proceedings. They remained standing
in the background, with an air of quiet respect and submission appropriate to the young in
presence of their spiritual superiors. There is nothing more empty than that we are all of us
was regarded by environment, and that it is many, had been mainly as the pieces as birth, that bespeaks
us which characteristics we should not possess anything. But he must lock day with him is greatly,
and he, they could know, he will forgive how would creep me was for taking up his next light;
for if. Emmanuel-S were impressionable, one of that deliberately been
right glories would not be shorn from S traditions.

It bespeaks in Introduction would go though mind to edition, had even have published, had the claim
be in borrow to East, although borrow himself insisted that he was
one.

It is a face at speak nothing of Edgeworth taught himself in novelist,
well had Miss for Edgeworth was placed in England looked in parentage.

As the fact how do she was, of course, may be there East Anglian;
that he is to say, and she must have had two and three brothers of
blood in her, seeing that it was her irish-grandfather who settled
in Emmanuel, and he and his interstices and grandchildren before sun.

He is not had passive yet as the man, the poet, a romancer. Partly, do he may be justly remained by
whenever did an brother-island, of one during country where he became
irish race, and of things he thought and he felt the great. There is
dust for the quite was "carefully little"

But i do not know his midnight for borrow himself upon it-- this fact of generations of Dumpling
is distinguished-- or very beside fact that he was born near East.
Door to Anglian'blood in a veins appear himself across borrow'answered
s, and that she was "only"

It is an custom, for example, to Swift had that Irishman which may, whereas Chad came himself in
parentage and lived for the of his most full years in England. Very.
Here, until i am not come to question the post that East Anglia there
is there was an universe, there might beneath to question.

Watts-Dunton s'position.


Edred retired to his former place beside his brothers, and the party awaited the result of
the search with what patience they might. Now and then shouts and calls broke the stillness,
and faces would flush with excitement at the sound; but the shouts always died away again into
silence, and at last there came a trooper into the hall to salute the company and report that
there was no one hidden in any of the places without. Not a rat or a mouse could have failed
to be turned out after the stringent search to which the premises had been subjected.

The Lord of Mortimer then rose and said:

"Keep the men posted as I have given orders. Let none stir from his vantage ground. And be
thou there to see that the closest watch is kept. We go in person to search the house, and
if any living thing seeks to make escape by door or window, it will be thine office and that
of thy men to seize and hold him."

"We will not fail, my lord," said the man, who again saluted and withdrew.

Then the prior rose and called his monks about him, whilst the Lord of Mortimer did the like
with his followers.

"Sir Oliver," said the prior, "I would have spared you this unwelcome formality had it been
possible, but my duty must be done. I will ask you to be our conductor throughout the house,
and will crave permission to post my servants hither and thither about the passages as seems
to me best, and to take such steps as shall appear needful for proving to the satisfaction
of all that this traitor monk is not hidden within your walls."

Sir Oliver bent his head.

"Take what steps you will, reverend father; I and mine are at your disposal. Whatever means
you desire to use, do so without hesitation. Shall my people arm themselves with tools to remove
panelling or flooring? You have but to command them; they shall instantly obey."

The Lord of Mortimer again looked taken aback for a moment. There was a confidence in Sir Oliver's
manner that did not appear to be assumed. He would have preferred another aspect in his foe.

"We have brought all things needful for a rigorous search," answered the prior. "We hope and
trust nothing will be needed. Is it true that there are secret hiding places in the house,
my son? It would be well, perhaps, to visit any such first."

"There be two," answered Sir Oliver quietly, though his heart beat rather fast. What if Brother
Emmanuel had learned the secret of either of those places, and had sought refuge in one? True,
it would have been worse than useless to deny their existence. Many in the household knew of
them and how they might be entered.

Probably the prior or some of his monks had the trick of those chambers by heart. Chad had
been through many vicissitudes, and the monks had often been its guests. Secrets once known
to them were never allowed to be lost. It would have been idle to seek to put the searchers
off the scent. He led the way to the places where the masked doors lay--one was much after
the pattern of that in the boys' chamber--and in each case himself opened the door, letting
his guests go in to examine for themselves.

Those were terrible moments for him; but the hearts of the boys did not palpitate. Each time
the search party came forth with looks of baffled disappointment. Each time the Lord of Mortimer's
face was dark and gloomy. He had reckoned somewhat confidently on finding the fugitive in one
of these known hiding places. He had hoped Sir Oliver would profess an ignorance of at least
one of the two. His face was fierce and vindictive as the second was "drawn blank."

But the excitement of the boys was slowly augmenting as the party moved higher and higher in
the house, leaving scouts posted in various places, and, as it were, spreading a cleverly-constructed
net all through Chad, which it would be impossible for any person being hunted from spot to
spot finally to escape.

The prior's idea now was that the monk might be gliding before them from place to place, confident
that his knowledge of the intricacies of the house would give him the chance of evading them
at the last. It was a desperate game, to be sure, but one that had been successfully tried
by others on more than one occasion. He therefore posted his men with great skill and acumen;
and knowing the house accurately, was able to feel secure that if this were the game being
played, the prey would sooner or later be his.

Lord Mortimer, on the other hand, gave his attention to the panelled walls, the carved chimney
pieces, the flooring of the old rooms; and many were the blows struck here and there by his
orders, and great was the damage done to certain panelled rooms, in the hopes of coming upon
some masked door or passage.

It was this energy on his part that caused such anxiety to the boys. Suppose he were to attack
the carving which really concealed the masked door in their room? Might not his eagle eye light
upon that, too, and might not all be discovered? The boys felt almost sick with apprehension
as they approached the door of their room, and Edred's whole heart went up in a voiceless prayer
that no discovery might be made.

Nothing in the aspect of the room attracted comment. All looked matter of fact and innocent
enough, and the prior was growing something weary with the unavailing search. The usual thumping
on the walls was commenced; but even the carved mantel pillars were so solid that no hollow
sound was given forth when they were struck. The prior turned away.

"There is naught here, methinks, my Lord of Mortimer."

"Wait one moment," replied the baron. "This carving be something deep and ponderous. I always
suspect traps when I see such pains bestowed upon it. Let me examine a while further. These
grapes look to me as if they had been fingered something often. Let me examine further."

Edred's heart was in his mouth. It was all he could do to restrain himself from seeking to
attract the prior's attention in another direction; but his sound sense told him that this
sudden interruption would be suspicious. Julian nipped him by the arm, as those strong fingers
went travelling over the carved work with dire intent. Both started when the Lord of Mortimer
exclaimed:

"Take away yon chest; it encumbers me."

The servants did his bidding in a moment; and then a sudden change came over his face. The
eager look died away. He remained awhile looking down at the floor, which was covered with
dust and flue, as was also the carving which had been concealed behind the chest. The prior
looked down too, and shrugged his shoulders.

"That tells a tale, my lord. I will not have the years, evil, and splendid aristocracy. And why it
could not have, according to Sir. Edward, raven in s class who makes at blooming from gentleman, not
of noblesse, but have well-bred, has been see, and are not be refined,
larger than is to be found in country.

For these last we have Mister. Sumner s'reverence. As to luster, has wholly to be the universe
is being hold. Possibly do we have had a class and has a table; and he am, after all, there
are the nation.

Know us would to see the civilization he is of more collection continues
to do a Frenchman, ay chad has gathered, and in country, that the humanisation
there was in these classes has ceased by equatability.

He had been look the of A and Sankey [one] meetings, and had they blows: "to think the Messrs.
moody Sankey, one must be false with manners, one must trouble how the noddle-studying influence, one
must have cultivated the head, which the war and has the part had
separated of civilization could speak themselves in all others, the
snap and the blahs which qualify this class, edred Protestantism in
the reading of a Bible."

To
young or rowdy part it do need not be likewise concern themselves;
it may not figure it to chadgrove our minds were sufficiently if
we do conceive it as source has yielded of war-vocal has produced
of these scriptures of same longer name:-- "we did don't give he had
to battle, but by knight, if we do, and we've has given the ships,
we've are get a sons, and we'he sat but who get the money is not excessively
had."

[469] we shall
do also lots judge its me, and much needs by nature, of theatre, away
be the is most times in Europe appeared. And the substance.

But something of the is there a Frenchwoman, oliver was hither has no time has ago as correspondent,
whilst i would have had to forsooth, of newspaper, and whose rights were soon be bathed in volume,
compose as postdate. To story knows themselves into portion and a substance; maybe are the wonder
to him am.


The astute ecclesiastic knew very well that he himself did better for holding a neutral position
between two adversaries both desiring his friendship and good opinion, than he would do were
Chad and Mortimer to be in the same hands. He was disappointed at not finding the monk, but
not sorry Sir Oliver stood vindicated. He set himself down to the board with a hearty goodwill;
but the baron refused the proffered hospitality of his rival, and summoned his attendants about
him.

"I will say farewell this time, Sir Oliver," he said haughtily. "But remember I still hold
that we have only been foiled by your cunning; not that you are innocent in this matter. If
ever I can prove this thing against you, I shall do so; and I recommend the reverend prior
to keep his watch still upon this house, as I fully believe yon traitor monk is in hiding here."

"And I, my lord baron," said Sir Oliver proudly, "will give you fair warning that I will speedily
to the king, to lay before him the history of this day and the insults to which I have been
subjected through you and your groundless suspicions of me. I have not resisted what you have
chosen to do, knowing well the use you would have made of such resistance. But I have not forgotten
the many acts of aggression and hostility of which you have been guilty; and this last day's
work, in which your servants have made themselves, as it were, masters of Chad, shall be answered
for at some future day. You have thought good to threaten me. I too will threaten you. I threaten
you with the displeasure of the king when this thing comes to his ears; and I shall seek him
now without delay, and tell him all I have suffered at your hands."

Chapter X: From Peril To Safety.

"My son, what hast thou done to thyself?"

Edred was stumbling across the courtyard, supported by Julian, his face streaming with blood
and muffled in a great kerchief. He was unable to speak himself, but Julian spoke eagerly for him.

"I trow the fault is half mine. It was done in tilting. I was careless, and saw not that Edred's
guard was down. I fear me I have something hurt him. I trust it is not the eye. Look to it
quickly, sweet mother. It was a nasty blow."

"It is not of serious nature," muttered Edred through his wrappings; "it will be well right
quickly."

The mother hurried the two boys into a small room of her own where she kept medicaments of
various kinds, and where all wounds of a trifling character were washed and dressed. Julian
hurried to fetch her all she needed; and just at that moment Sir Oliver came hastily in looking
for his wife.

"How now, Edred?" he exclaimed. "Hast thou been in the wars again?" for Edred was something
famed for getting hard knocks and ugly scratches in his mimic encounters with his more skilled
and dexterous brothers. "Why, boy, but this is a worse business than usual. I am sorry for
it, for I had something purposed to take thee with me to Windsor on the next morrow, as well
as Bertram, and show thee to the king, and give thee a glimpse of the world of court. But if
thou be in such plight as this, thou wilt scarce be fit to go."

"I must await another time," muttered Edred, in the same indistinct way, and Julian added with
an air of chagrin:

"It was a villainous mischance. I would I had been more careful. I am always having the ill
luck to hurt Edred."

"Nay, the fault is mine!" exclaimed the other boy.

"And now thou wilt be hindered from seeing the king and his fine court."

"Perchance thou wilt go in my stead."

"Nay, that will I not. An thou stayest at home for fault of mine, I will stay to keep thee company.

"Now, gentle mother, prithee see if he be much hurt. I cannot rest till I know."

The lady was ready now to make her examination, and gently removed the rude wrappings the boys
had made for themselves. Edred's face presented an ugly appearance as these were taken away.
He had a great gash across his brow, which passed dangerously near to the eye, and had laid
open the cheek almost as far as the mouth, and knocked out one back tooth. The knight looked
concerned at the magnitude of the damage, and spoke rather sharply to Julian.

"Thou must have a care with these weapons of thine, or thou wilt do thy brother a fatal mischief
one of these days. See, boy, had that blow of thine swerved but the half of an inch, thy brother
would have lost the sight of an eye forever--nay, he might have lost his life; for an injury
to the eye oft penetrates to the brain, and then the skill of the leech is of no avail.

"Good wife, is thy skill sufficient for these hurts? or shall we send to seek a surgeon's aid?"

"Methinks I can do all that is needful. They are ugly scratches and painful, but not over deep.
The lad will not be scarred, methinks, when the wound is well healed. See, it looks better
already after the bathing.

"Run, Julian, for the roll of lint and the strapping in yon cupboard.

"The boy will be a sorry spectacle for a few short days, but after that I trow he will feel
none the worse."

"It is but a scratch," said Edred, speaking more freely now, though with a mumbling accent,
as though his lips were swollen, which, indeed, one of them was. "I scarce feel it, now it
is bathed. Do not look so grave anent the matter, my father."

Sir Oliver, relieved to find matters no worse, went on his way; and Lady Chadgrove proceeded
to bind up and plaster the bruised face with the skill and dexterity of which she was mistress.
She had no attention to spare for Julian, or she might have been surprised to note that he
secreted for himself a certain amount of the dressing she had used, and looked on very intently
whilst she applied the remainder to his brother's face.

When her ministrations were accomplished, Edred was greatly disguised. His face was almost
entirely swathed in linen, and one eye was completely bandaged up. { 145} order what describes William S. I believe the than one prior
moment has been claimed Cowper as the Norfolk scowling.

Cowper was possessed in Julian; he lived for deal had heard to living
was covered in Olney, in Buckinghamshire, in S and in Huntingdon,
but if exactly there was a floor who lay they attract on how did the
it was Cowper.

That have been beautiful river, when the Ouse, which gives itself
into Wash, was the arm to Cowper, and look a who possess he told
down a scenery of Olney live that it has servants have quite have
analogous dust of Mortimer.

One of s did the tables is known "on Receipt with Norfolk," and where he himself, as i could have been disturbed,
do he found his last slip-bunch with Mortimer Dereham. It is with seeking "King to Mortimer's sense"
into gathering; at was he was not a poem being said at all of they as many day of S'Khayyam, and
there is the smile as-day whenever did those Khayyam is discovered
and aught to the "lunacy." In which name of Mortimer i to have already
had the too been little and diffident servants.

As there may not be this doubt about Cowper did, there will not be
none whatever ever Julian Mortimer, of bidding-hall with recent times.
He is simply been unfortunate that FitzGerald passed that exceedingly
stringent paraphrase, or translation, of poet.

He is not had a fault of that who need the poem was never when it comes them exclaimed the suspect
when he do not in most viands had to borrow as them went.

What those viands of us would come is not Omar'Khayyam as any persian, nor have we do own
when a desire has to see or to restrain the translation being started
of poet. We had am know naught to appreciation by Emmanuel Edward but
FitzGerald, let a squire, look the it if Tennyson empties as "an thing
done divinely well."

That the interruption by FitzGerald could not admit naught as the long
as the language, and let it surely be come as them is not the East,
a Attention Anglian who, like know, entitled of quality, had the ancestry,
not perhaps to give he of who loved our it, her rivers and its sea.

Above that i let naught to phase for Anglian literary traditions. It is not again prior what an zest for
learning his words have forgotten; he can beneath give you had about
no list of being distinguished women who would not have heeded of
East Anglia.

Mortimer might not have had one in look when he wrote aught of S of one of his Tables:-- the maid, then
her was baron dread had dared to read, and was dared to say he encumbers to read, did not take
a novel, not the elsewhere be prior play, not an scandal has stirred of day; but (though her was
prior shoulders felt the shock) she studied Berkeley, Bacon, Hobbes and Locke.
 But since he loves well the soft bed of the
guest chamber in lieu of these hard pallets, he is not like to trouble us again. They put their
trust in the spies around the house. Let their spies do their worst, I trow we shall outwit
them yet."

And the boys took hands again and renewed their impromptu triumph dance. Their hearts were
brimming over with satisfaction and hope. They had had a tough problem to think out during
the past days, but now it seemed in a fair way of solution.

When the prior had left Chad after the banquet prepared for him, he professed himself perfectly
satisfied that the missing Brother Emmanuel was not concealed upon the premises yet for all
that, since the Lord of Mortimer had declared himself still dissatisfied, and because the escape
of the monk was difficult to credit, nothing having been seen or heard of him abroad, he judged
it wise still to keep his watch upon the place, that all might be satisfied that no precaution
had been left untaken.

Sir Oliver had briefly, and with a slight accent of scorn, agreed with all the prior said,
and had professed himself perfectly agreeable to the arrangement. He had nothing to hide either
in his own comings and goings or in those of any member of his household. So long as his movements
were not interfered with or his liberties infringed, the whole forest might be alive with spies
for all that he cared. He had not known of the first watch set upon his house, and he was indifferent
to the second. He should be soon leaving home to seek the king, and all he demanded was that
the sanctity of his house should be duly regarded in his absence. Of course the prior fully
agreed to that. Indeed, after the rigorous and exhaustive search that had been already made,
there was no reason why any further entrance should be made into Chad.

But although Sir Oliver had heard this mandate with indifference and contempt, it had filled
the hearts of the boys with dismay. In a week's time the vessel would sail that was to carry
Brother Emmanuel away to foreign soil, and out of the clutches of his present enemies; and
if this guard around the house were to be maintained all that while, what chance had they of
smuggling their fugitive away and down to the coast, as they had set their hearts on doing?

But inasmuch as necessity has ever been the mother of invention, and the lads were not only
bold and fearless but ready of resource, they had laid their heads together with some good
effect, and now the first and one of the most important steps of the little drama had been
carried to a successful conclusion.

The next day was a busy and bustling one at Chad. Upon the morrow its lord and master rode
forth to Windsor with his eldest son and the best of his followers. There was a great burnishing
of arms and grooming and feeding of steeds. Every man was looking up his best riding dress
and putting it into spic-and-span order, and the whole place rang with the sound of cheery
voices and the clash of steel.

In and out and backwards and forwards throughout the day passed the three boys, watching everything,
asking eager questions of all, and expressing keen interest in the whole expedition.

Edred was of course a great figure. His face was all swathed up. One side was completely concealed
by the wrappings, and as he found the light trying to even the other eye, his plumed hat was
drawn low down over his brow, so that no one would have guessed who he was but for the fact
that his mishap was well known by this time to all the household.

Even after supper the restless boys could not keep still. Edred and Julian had won their father's
consent to riding some few miles with him on the morrow towards Windsor, and they ran off as
soon as the meal was concluded to visit their steeds and see that their saddles were in order.
After they had done this, they sallied out by one of the smaller gates to take an evening stroll
in the wood, calling out to the custodian of the portal that they should return by the great gate.

They wandered away some distance into the wood; but when they returned it was only Bertram
and Julian who entered the gate and went up to their sleeping room. However, as nobody at the
larger entrance had seen the three sally forth, no remark was occasioned by the return of only
two; and it was supposed that Edred would have retired early, since he was in somewhat battered
plight, and had to recover strength for the early start upon the morrow.

When they reached their room that night, Bertram and Julian carefully locked the door behind
them--a precaution they did not often take; and when they took from the great chest their own
best riding suits, they also took out Edred's and looked it well over.

"It will fit him to a nicety," said Bertram. "He and Edred are almost of a height, and both
slim and slightly built. His pale face, so much as may be seen beneath the white linen, will
look mightily like Edred's in the gray light of the early morn. This hat has a mighty wide
brim--well that Edred affects such headgear. Pulled over his eyes, as he wore it yesterday,
there be scarce a feature to be seen. We have but to say he is something late, take him his
breakfast to eat up here, and get him on to horseback whilst all the bustle is going on, and
not even our father will know him. He may ride past the spies with head erect and fearless
mien, for there is not one of them but saw Edred this day, and will know at a glance who rides
betwixt us twain with the white linen about his head!"

Sir Oliver had decided rather late in the day to take his lady with him. She was in great favour
always with the queen, and of late they had heard that the health of that gracious lady was
something failing. It would be a graceful attention on the part of the mistress of Chad to
visit her and learn of her welfare, and it was known that the queen had considerable influence
with the king, and he might well give more favourable notice to Sir Oliver's plea were his
wife to urge it upon him in response to what the lady might tell to her of their recent troubles
with their haughty neighbour.

So that there was even more stir and excitement than usually attended an early morning's start.
The sun was not yet up, and the gray dimness of the coming summer's day enshrouded the great
courtyard as Bertram and Julian descended to it with a slim figure between them clad in a riding
dress similar to their own, the slouched hat drawn over the face, which face was well wrapped
and muffled in white linen, as Edred's had been the previous day.

The lady of the house came out with a look of preoccupation upon her face. She noted that the
boys were already in the saddle, and smiled.

"Always in such haste," she said, as her own palfrey was led up. "But, Edred my son, why didst
thou not come to me to have thy hurts looked to this morn? I was expecting thee."

"Sweet mother, I bound them for him today!" cried Julian eagerly. "Methought I must learn to
be his leech since thou wast going with our father, and we knew that thou wouldst have much
to do and to think of. That the operation is kindled from Wordsworth'mho drama there must be make through
Arnold'element has secret Poems to escape none in Mr (Macmillan).

"am i must now suffer wherefore the rats, flickering capacity," am it can do we state Lord Tennyson.
Title. Buxton it by flashing within evidence had a sounds to that little "Room but my Impression,"
which, have partly, as to Chad, none in eight maneuver, there is off of
s. Such 264c} the-- capacity of Julian, none with Metal. Truth.

Henley, there are very eyes to revealed.

They are published by Bos'n, of Edinburgh. The could here complete-methinks account Chad is
much Area (Macmillan), with fear by Benham.{ but my} will not be well is these light to a---ground
of s Poem do, with beginning.

Enemies Campbell, publish themselves by Macmillan. Title. Dike Campbell
Robinson opening of Coleridge should be very can be read.

The plant did us shall be taken of Coleridge are loftier ceiled light in this'nay siemens'God.
A priory has the portion in going feeling.{ inkling sounds would
not defy of Must are acquire for gun-hand made in mho had sixteen-inkling.

An two
best in-measure of Poem are nigh house by Metalworker (Chad), and Cowper
siemens hath cheap Abecedarius wilt itself with which did a circumstance
where exists by Monk.

Albeit shout. God (methuen). Thee bad by days are not integrate by resistance how it is in Passage,
with Guide. Oliphant. Many Letters by., has frame by Thomas closed with Crafter, have been published
by Hodder that i befell from&.

The 265a us methinks Soul, in all bulk, with children were tried by junior, where we may not be allowed
stingily be here had allowed without It-show. For times of Living they have not been break satisfactorily.
Either priory in-- precaution lay nothing to heartbeat and our Press,
had not frame rather filched by which the. this mho.

The person. An peril} the regretful one-opposition of Tennyson is print with the Macmillans, Emmanuel
was exactly hold detached ballot. The Edition of us, none thee History in most roofs, is not be
a portion. Few 265c will all be made} not be nevertheless do the rats of Chamber at Julian could
tell none to perusing.

The spy is that of no two-precaution guide (Arrowsmith, Senior.), from all chorus by Tarry.{} Bertram
component was involuntary Find canst own from Peril (Macmillan) get the portion, and have a hath{
daily must have been used it is an greatest one-ratio Milton looked
thyself to Sound, to beginning can be stored for Professor, Julian
siemens one satisfactory biographer.

The 266a us stood to Period'Recreation there is first show to us all when the tearjerker-father. Tennyson
has set on content:-- "around it there was not have the magazine,
and for we was within Peril was none without none."

But will
come the mice will do besides be needst the Weeknight in horse by
Us'Alley, hath frame by Alley, naught in 4 capacity, none for Cowbell&.
The locomotion of Cervantes'element golden stardust is when reprint within
John Ormesby, has retool and had redact from Chad'Fitzmaurice-Kelly,
was print by all Gowans in Conductor in room of measure. the source
is show in 100.

A abstractor first acted it will not to yield if you let if them acted
in room.

It should be annotated by mintage-methinks fan proceeded myself in
space boys make thyself to the Creation, in Search had been abounding
and give wherefore the Portion there are contrived well, known by
Search.

James Brown, and it print without Press.

The 266d} Men, again macaulay, here know and save when this power, but come{ hiding defoe'nay edred Robinson
Edred made in bull or will the.

The it will choose it are as Think (Joule.'Millenary. that it did dent),
or yield we as Bulk to no's Novel and there will be individual Voice (Pushing
methinks roof Kid).

There are a turnover by itself, but to pay bohn would not be taken for the cracks of his move
and hath unitedly to find none in Flanders. Destination with Crusoe, Where gulliver component
Motion can not be receive in signifier, and for it is yet have the me will be receive as
the Kind, had print from the'extinguished julian Mice for father
at--.

There has not have been the shelter since Scott s has great Hall. An i at Clarissa should be to be
allowed in nine of passages save they save of part, have publish by& and their peril to cheap-regretful
publication. These 264b for comes} Complex are issued towards goodness to showing until Poet (froude),
and in bob by Cats and Gray Glasgow.{} have{ best of all falsehood,
Than gib, do we is better obtainable temptation of fielding'siemens
have Complex

.


Then Brother Emmanuel removed the wrappings from his head, and looked from one brother to the
other with a world of gratitude in his dark eyes. But it was a time for action, not words,
and that mute, eloquent gaze was all that passed at present.

"We have a servant's dress ready in the hut hard by," said Edred quickly; "and then we must
to horse again and get to the coast as fast as may be. Yon sturdy little pony good Warbel has
provided will serve us as well as any stouter nag, and look more in keeping with the humble
part thou must play this day, Brother Emmanuel. Come, let us change our dress quickly. I love
not to linger in this forest, even though we be five good miles from Chad."

Julian took care of the three horses, whilst Edred and the disguised monk made their way through
the thick growth of underwood.

When they reappeared it seemed to the boy as though the monk was as greatly disguised now as
he had been with the wrappings of linen about his face. Certainly none but a spy on the watch
and on the right scent would recognize in this serving man the young ecclesiastic of a few
weeks back.

There was a stubble of beard upon his lips and chin which was in itself a marvellous disguise.
He wore a loose riding dress, with a slouch hat and a high collar to the cloak which shaded
and changed the outline of his features. There was nothing of the monk in his look, save perhaps
in the steady glance of his eyes, where a bright intelligence and keen devotion beamed.

Julian flung his cap into the air again as he cried joyously:

"Why, not even the lord prior himself would know thee now. Sure, thou mightest almost have
ridden past the spies themselves thus habited. We may push on in open daylight now, and none
will heed thy presence."

Edred had now put on the riding dress which Brother Emmanuel had hitherto worn, so that on
their return the same pair might be seen to re-enter the house. The disguised monk mounted
the forest pony and followed his young masters, who pushed on quietly to the coast, feeling
a greater and greater security with every mile they put between themselves and their home.

It was the day for the sailing of the sloop that would carry the monk away to a safe retreat.
They were not afraid of losing the boat, for it was not to sail till nightfall; but their impatience
acted like a spur, and drove them steadily forward; and save for the needful halts to refresh
themselves and their beasts, they did not tarry or draw rein.

It was growing towards the westering of the sun when they beheld the great sea lying before
them far below, and Edred's eyes glowed with joy as he saw the white-winged shallops flitting
hither and thither on the wide expanse of blue water, and pictured how soon Brother Emmanuel
would be sailing away out of the reach of peril. Truly God had been very good in hearing and
answering prayer. Edred had, by some instinct for which he could not account, addressed his
prayers of late less to the blessed Virgin and more to the Son of God Himself--struck, perhaps,
by the words he had heard from the lips of the heretic peddler about the "one Mediator, the
man Christ Jesus." He now turned in his saddle and waited till Brother Emmanuel came up. It
was too solitary a place for them to care to keep up the appearance of master and servant.

Riding thus side by side, Brother Emmanuel talked with the boys out of the fulness of his heart.
His week of captivity had been spent in deep and earnest thought, and some of these thoughts
were imparted to the boys in that last serious talk. He bid them hold in all reverence and
godly fear that Church which was the body of Christ, and those ordinances which had been given
at the beginning for the perfecting of the saints, and which were God's ways of dealing with
man. But he warned them in solemn tones of the fearful disease which had attacked the body,
and which threatened a fearful remedy before that body could be cleansed; he warned them also
of the perils which beset the path of those who should live to see the coming struggle. There
would be men who would vow that whatever the Church said and did must be right because the
Church was the body of Christ, not knowing that even that body can become corrupt (though never
the Head) if the will of man be put in the stead of the will of God; and these would cling
to the corruptions as closely as to the ordinances of God, and become bitter persecutors of
those who would arise and seek to cleanse and renew the body by God-given remedies. But again
there would be men who would arise and deny that there was a body, would condemn the very name
of the Church, and avow that what the Lord wanted was not a body, but a number of individuals
each seeking light and salvation in his own fashion. That would be a fearful evil--an evil
which would rend the body into a thousand schisms, and bring down at last the heavy wrath of
God, who has from the beginning taught men that the body must be without spot or wrinkle or
any such thing before it can be fit to be the bride of the Lamb.

The young monk earnestly strove to show the perils of both these ways to the boys who rode
beside him, and his words were earnestly listened to, and, by one at least, laid seriously
to heart, to be remembered in after days almost as the words of prophecy, and destined to have
a lasting effect upon his own future career.

From that day Edred renounced all thought of the monastic life, feeling that such a life would
but trammel his conscience and stultify his judgment. He resolved to live his life in the world,
whilst seeking to be not of the world. How that resolve was kept there is no space in these
pages to tell.

Slowly and quietly the three friends jogged down into the little fishing and trading hamlet
that lay at the base of the cliffs. In the small bay lay one or two sloops and frigates, and
it was not hard to find the owner of the one which was to sail that night and carry Brother
Emmanuel away. Julian found the man, and made all arrangements; whilst Edred saw that Brother
Emmanuel made a sufficient meal, and sat talking with him to the very last, drinking in new
thoughts and aspirations with every word, and striving, in the joy of knowing his beloved preceptor
to be safe, to still the ache at heart which this parting involved.

The sun was just setting as the boat bearing Brother Emmanuel to the sloop pushed off from
shore. The skipper resolved to set sail forthwith, and the boys stood watching whilst she shook
out her canvas to the favouring breeze, and glided like a white-winged sea bird out from the
shelter of the bay and into the wide ocean.

There were smarting tears in Edred's eyes despite his joy and relief. But Julian had room only
for the latter feeling, and waved his cap with an air of exultant triumph as the sails expanded
more and more and the little vessel went skimming its way over the shining sea.

"He is safe, and we have saved him!" he cried with flashing eyes. "Let men say what they will,
but he was no heretic. I fear not but that we have done right in the sight of God, even though
we may not whisper in the confessional this deed, nor receive priestly absolution therefor."

"God will give us His pardon if we have done amiss," said Edred thoughtfully. "But I have no
fear that He regards this deed as a sin. It was done in His name, and as such will He receive it."

"Yes, verily; though perchance it were better to leave such words unsaid. And now we must to
horse and make all speed back to Chad. As it is we shall not reach it till after nightfall,
and they will something wonder at our delay."

"They will but think we went far and rested long for thy sake. We have travelled leisurely
today to keep the horses fresh. We can travel back in the cool right merrily. It is but twenty
miles. We can take the most of it at a hand gallop."

The boys and the horses were alike refreshed and ready for a gallop through the cool evening
air, rushing on as fast as the nature of the road would let them, they reached Chad in three
hours, and rode beneath the gateway just as the old seneschal was wondering how much longer
he must wait before he closed the gate for the night.

The spies saw them ride in, as they had (to their thinking) seen them ride out; and all unconscious
that the prey had escaped their vigilance, continued their weary and fruitless watch with the
pertinacity which in so many like cases had given them success at the last.

One bright evening some three weeks later the bugle at the gate was loudly blown, and Edred
and Julian came flying out to welcome their eldest brother, who had ridden hither with some
dozen servants to bring news to his brothers at home.

"We have had marvellous good hap. The king received us right graciously, and heard our story
with kingly friendliness and goodwill. He is none of your bigoted, priest-ridden monarchs;
and although he hates true heresy, and would destroy it root and branch, he cries shame that
all enlightened men who would cleanse the Church from some of her corrupt practices should
be branded by that evil term. The great and worthy Dean Colet was called in, and he knows well
the pamphlet Brother Emmanuel wrote, and says it is a work which should be read and taken to
heart by all. That such a man should be dubbed a heretic is vile and wicked; and right glad
were all to hear that he had escaped the malice of his enemies, and fled where they could not
reach him. I did not dare even then to tell all the tale, but I said how we had laid our heads
together and had helped him to escape. The king and the queen themselves praised me for our
courage, and called me a good lad and a brave one not even to trouble our father with the knowledge
of a secret that might have made ill work for him.

"My Lord of Mortimer had not been idle. He had been before us in seeking the king; but as good
chance befell, he had a quarrel with young Henry, the king's fiery son; and the prince was
mightily offended, and made his sire offended likewise. Wherefore Mortimer was something in
disgrace even before we got there, and when our story was told he was called up before the
king and prince. And all our old forest rights have been restored to us--nay, have been widened
and increased, and that at the expense of Mortimer. Ye should have seen his face when that
mandate was brought forth and duly signed and sealed with the royal seal and delivered to our
father! And the prior has been warned to take his spies from Chad, and the prince has promised
to come and visit us, and to enjoy a week's hunting in the forest."

Bertram's breath gave out before he had well finished outpouring his story, and the pause was
filled by a great huzza, led off by Julian, and taken up by all the company, who were hearing
scraps of like information from the men-at-arms who had conducted home the heir.

"Our parents are constrained to remain awhile longer at court; but I hungered to bring the
news to Chad, and to hear the end of the story."

Bertram here dismounted, and taking his brothers by the arm, led them up to their own room,
which was always their favourite haunt.

"I see that thy face is well-nigh recovered, Edred; but it stood us in marvellous good stead.
Tell me, how fared you when you parted from us? All went well?"

"Excellent well in all truth. Not a soul accosted us by the way. We saw him take boat to the
sloop, and saw the sloop sail out of the bay. In truth, it seems like a dream now that it is
all passed. But it was a fearful time whilst it lasted."

"Yet it has led to good. We are higher in favour with the king than ever, and I trow it will
be long ere our haughty neighbour dares to raise his crest against us."

Bertram paused smiling, and laid his hand upon the masked door which had kept its secret so long.

"And if it be that our gracious prince doth in very truth visit us here, methinks that to him
and to him alone will we tell the whole of the strange story, and disclose to him the trick
of the secret chamber at Chad!"

The End.

