There is a wide variety in so far as subject matter, source and form are concerned, but a certain
unity is given to the contents of the volume by the religious note, which, whether brought
prominently forward or not, is found alike in all the selections. 

I have told it before, but it will bear telling again, for it holds the key to the whole business. They
gathered in the drift, all the little embryo gangs that were tuning up in the district, and made
them into clubs,-- Young Heroes, Knights of the Round Table, and such like; all except one,
the oldest, that had begun to make a name for itself with the police. That one held aloof, observing
coldly what went on, to make sure it was "straight." They let it be, keeping the while an anxious
eye upon it; until one day there came a delegation with this olive branch: "If you will let us
in, we will change and have your kind of a gang." Needless to say it was let in. And within a year,
when, through a false rumor that the concern was moving away, there was a run on the settlement's
penny provident bank, the converted gang proved itself its stanchest friend by doing actually what
John Halifax did in Miss Mulock's story: it brought all the pennies it could raise in the neighborhood
by hook or by crook and deposited them as fast as the regular patrons-- the
gang had not yet risen to the dignity of a bank account-- drew them
out, until the run ceased.

This same gang which, the year before, was training for trouble with
the police!

The cry, "Get the boys off the street," that has been raised in our cities, as the real gravity
of the situation has been made clear, has led to the adoption of curfew ordinances in many places.
Any attempt to fit such a scheme to metropolitan life would result only in adding one more dead-letter
law, more dangerous than all the rest, to those we have. New York is New York, and one look at the
crowds in the streets and the tenements will convince anybody. Besides, the curfew rings at nine
o'clock. The dangerous hours, when the gang is made, are from seven to nine, between supper and
bedtime. This is the gap the club fills out. The boys take to the street because the home has
nothing to keep them there. To lock them up in the house would only make them hate it more. The
club follows the line of least resistance. It has only to keep also on the line of common sense.
It must be a real club, not a reformatory. Its proper function is to head off the jail. The
gang must not run it. But rather that than have it help train up a band of wretched young cads.
The signs are not hard to make out. When a boy has had his head swelled by his importance
as a member of the Junior Street-cleaning Band to the point of reproving his mother for throwing
a banana peel in the street, the thing to be done is to take him out and spank him, if it is reverting
to "the savagery" of the street. Better a savage than a cad. The boys have the making of both
in them. Their vanity furnishes abundant material for the cad, but only when unduly pampered.
Left to itself, the gang can be trusted not to develop that kink.

It comes down in the end to the personal influence that is always most potent in dealing with
these problems. All honor, then, to the old Archbishop of Genoa and to William Caxton, who made
his work accessible to the youth of England.

The only other work which deserves any special mention as a source for the contents of this
volume, is the Stories and Tales of Hans Christian Andersen. If ever there was any one who
deserved the title of the Children's Friend, surely this son of a poor Danish shoemaker is
the man. His Tales have been translated into many languages, and because of their true imagination
and their simplicity of expression they have appealed to all children. Ten or more of them
appear in this volume. They are charming and wholesome reading, and their continued popularity
makes us realize the truth of these closing lines in Andersen's The Old Grave Stones: "The
good and the beautiful perish never; they live eternally in tale and song." 

I take it from the Evening Post: "In the month of July I stopped on
a march by a threshing-floor where they were measuring grain.

When the shares had been divided, the one who had cultivated the land received a single tumolo (less
than a half bushel). The peasant, leaning on his spade, looked at his share as if stunned. His
wife and their five children were standing by.

       From the painful toil of a year this was what was left to him with
which to feed his family.

The tears rolled silently down his cheeks." These things occasionally help one to understand.
Over against this picture there arises in my memory one from the
barge office, where I had gone to see an Italian steamer come in.

A family
sat apart, ordered to wait by the inspecting officer; in the group was an old man, worn and wrinkled,
who viewed the turmoil with the calmness of one having no share in it. The younger members
formed a sort of bulwark around him. "Your father is too old to come in," said the official. Two
young women and a boy of sixteen rose to their feet at once. "Are not we young enough to work for
him?" they said.

The boy showed his strong arms.

It is charged against this Italian immigrant that he is dirty, and the charge is true. He lives
in the darkest of slums, and pays rent that ought to hire a decent
flat.

To wash, water is needed; and we have a law which orders tenement
landlords to put it on every floor, so that their tenants may have
the chance.

       And it is not yet half a score years since one of the biggest tenement-house
landlords in the city, the wealthiest church corporation in the land,
attacked the constitutionality of this statute rather than pay two
or three hundred dollars for putting water into two old buildings,
as the Board of Health had ordered, and so came near upsetting the
whole structure of tenement-house law upon which our safety depends.

Talk about the Church and the people; that one thing did more to drive them apart than all the ranting
of atheists that ever were. Yesterday a magazine came in the mail in which I read: "On a certain
street corner in Chicago stands a handsome church where hundreds of worshippers gather every Sabbath
morning for prayer and praise. Just a little way off, almost within the shadow of its spire, lived,
or rather herded, in a dark, damp basement, a family of eight-- father, mother, and six children. For
all the influence that the songs or the sermons or the prayers had upon them they might have lived
there and died like rats in a hole. They did not believe in God, nor heaven, nor hell, other than
that in which they lived.

Church-goers were to them a lot of canting hypocrites who wrapped their
comfortable robes about them and cared nothing for the sufferings of
others. Hunger and misery were daily realities."

No, it was not a yellow newspaper. It was a religious publication, and
it told how a warm human love did find them out, and showed them what
the Church had failed to do-- what God's love is like.

And I am not attacking the Church either. God forbid! I would help,
not hinder it; for I, too, am a churchman. Only-- well, let it pass.
It will not happen again.

That same year I read in my paper the reply of the priest at the Pro-Cathedral
in Stanton Street to a crank who scoffed at the kind of "religion"
they had there: kindergartens, nurseries, boys'and girls'clubs, and
mothers'meetings.

"Yes," he wrote, "that is our religion. We believe that a love of
God that doesn't forthwith run to manifest itself in some loving deed to
His children is not worth having."

That is how I came to be a churchman in Bishop Potter's camp.

I "joined" then and there.

Our Italian is ignorant, it is said, and that charge is also true,
I doubt if one of the family in the barge office could read or write his
own name.

Yet would you fear especial danger to our institutions, to our citizenship,
from those four?

He lives cheaply, crowds, and underbids even the Jew in the sweat
shop.

I can myself testify to the truth of these statements.

A couple of years ago I was the umpire in a quarrel between the Jewish
tailors and the factory inspector whom they arraigned before the governor
on charges of inefficiency. For all that, I still believe it.

Meanwhile Dr. Gould's advice is good sense. If he is right, it is of the last importance; if I
am right, it is still the way to proving me so by holding on to what
is left of the home in the tenement and making the most of it.

That we have taken the advice is good ground for hope, in the face of the fact that New York
has still the worst housing in the world. We can now destroy what is not fit to stand. We
have done it, and the republic yet survives. The slum landlord would have had us believe that
it must perish with his rookeries. We are building model tenements and making them pay. Alfred
T. White's Riverside tenements are as good to-day as when they were built a dozen years ago-- better
if anything, for they were honestly built-- and in all that time they have paid five and six
per cent, and even more. Dr. Gould found that only six per cent of all the great model housing
operations which he examined for the government here and abroad had failed to pay. All the
rest were successful. And by virtue of the showing we have taken the twenty-five-foot lot itself
by the throat.

Three years ago, speaking of it as the one thing that was in the way of progress in New York,
I wrote: "It will continue to be in the way. A man who has one lot will build on it; it is his
right. The state, which taxes his lot, has no right to confiscate it by forbidding him to make
it yield him an income, on the plea that he might build something which would be a nuisance.
But it can so order the building that it shall not be a nuisance; that is not only its right,
but its duty."

That duty has been done since; let me tell how. Popular sentiment, taking more and more firmly
hold of the fact that there is a direct connection between helpless poverty and bad housing,
shaped itself in 1898 into a volunteer Tenement House Committee which, as an effective branch
of the Charity Organization Society, drew up and presented to the municipal authorities a reform
code of building ordinances affecting the dwellings of the poor. But Tammany was back, and
they would not listen at the City Hall. Seeing which, the committee made up its mind to appeal
to the people themselves in such fashion that it should be heard. That was the way the Tenement
House Exhibition of the winter of 1900 came into existence.

Rich and poor came to see that speaking record of a city's sorry plight, and at last we all understood.
Not to understand after one look at the poverty and disease maps that hung on the wall was to
declare oneself a dullard. The tenements were all down in them, with the size of them and the
air space within, if there was any. Black dots upon the poverty maps showed that for each one
five families in that house had applied for charity within a given time. There were those that
had as many as fifteen of the ominous marks, showing that seventy-five families had asked aid
from the one house.

To find a tenement free from the taint one had to search long and with care. Upon the disease
maps the scourge of tuberculosis lay like a black pall over the double-decker districts. A
year later the State Commission, that continued the work then begun, said: "There is hardly
a tenement house in which there has not been at least one case of pulmonary tuberculosis within
the last five years, and in some houses there have been as many as twenty-two different cases
of this terrible disease. There are over 8000 deaths a year in New York City from this disease
alone, at least 20,000 cases of well-developed and recognized tuberculosis, and in addition a large
number of obscure and incipient cases. The connection between tuberculosis and the character of
the tenement houses in which the poor people live is of the very closest." [23]
[Footnote 23: Report of the Tenement House Committee of 1900. The
secretary of that body said: "Well might those maps earn for New York
the title of the City of the Living Death."] A model was shown of
a typical East Side block, containing 2781 persons on two acres of
land, nearly every bit of which was covered with buildings.

There were 466 babies
in the block (under five years), but not a bath-tub except one that
hung in an air shaft. Wherefore when he awoke he
prophesied of the conjunction of Christ to his church, and of the flood that was to come, and
of the doom and destruction of the world by fire he knew, which afterward he told to his children.

Whiles that Adam slept, God took one of his ribs, both flesh and bone, and made that a woman,
and set her tofore Adam. Which then said: This is now a bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh;
and Adam gave her a name like as her lord, and said she should be called virago, which is as
much as to say as made of a man, and is a name taken of a man. And anon, the name giving, he
prophesied, saying: Because she is taken of the side of a man, therefore a man shall forsake
and leave father and mother and abide and be adherent unto his wife, and they shall be two
in one flesh; and though they be two persons, yet in matrimony and wedlock they be but one
flesh, and in other things twain. For why, neither of them had power of his own flesh. They
were both naked and were not ashamed, for they stood both in the state of innocence. The worst
dive was where that church stands. It was always full of thieves, "-- whose sons, I added mentally,
have become collectors for the church. The one fact was a whole chapter
on the slum.

London's way with the tenant we adopted at last in New York with the
slum landlord.

He was" druv into decency. "We had to. Moral suasion had been stretched to the limit. The point
had been reached where one knock-down blow outweighed a bushel of arguments. It was all very
well to build model tenements as object lessons to show that the thing could be done; it had become
necessary to enforce the lesson by demonstrating that the community had power to destroy houses
which were a menace to its life. The rear tenements were chosen for
this purpose.

They were the worst, as they were the first, of New York's tenements. The double-deckers of
which I have spoken had, with all their evils, at least this to their credit, that their death-rate
was not nearly as high as that of the old houses. That was not because of any virtue inherent
in the double-deckers, but because the earlier tenements were old, and built in a day that
knew nothing of sanitary restrictions, and cared less. Hence the showing that the big tenements
had much the lowest mortality. The death-rate does not sound the depths of tenement-house evils,
but it makes a record that is needed when it comes to attacking property rights. The mortality
of the rear tenements had long been a scandal. They are built in the back yard, generally back
to back with the rear buildings on abutting lots. If there is an open space between them, it
is never more than a slit a foot or so wide, and gets to be the receptacle of garbage and filth
of every kind; so that any opening made in these walls for purposes
of ventilation becomes a source of greater danger than if there were
none.

The last count that was made, in 1900, showed that among the 44,850 tenements in Manhattan and
the Bronx there were still 2143 rear houses left. [20] Where they are the death-rate rises, for
reasons that are apparent. The sun cannot reach them. They are damp and dark, and the tenants,
who are always the poorest and most crowded, live" as in a cage open only toward the front.
"A canvass made of the mortality records by Dr. Roger S. Tracy, the registrar of records, showed
that while in the First Ward (the oldest), for instance, the death-rate in houses standing singly
on the lot was 29.03 per 1000 of the living, where there were rear houses it rose to 61.97.
The infant death-rate is a still better test; that rose from 109.58 in the single tenements
of the same ward to 204.54 where there were rear houses. [21] One in every five babies had to
die; that is to say, the house killed it.

No wonder the Gilder commission styled the rear tenements" slaughter-houses, "and called upon
the legislature to root them out, and with them every old, ramshackle, disease-breeding tenement
in the city.

[Footnote 20: That was, however, a reduction of 236 since 1898, when the census showed 2379 rear
houses.] [Footnote 21: Report of Gilder Tenement House Commission,
1894.] A law which is in substance a copy of the English act for destroying
slum property was passed in the spring of 1895.

It provided for the seizure of buildings that were dangerous to the
public health or unfit for human habitation, and their destruction
upon proper proof, with compensation to the owner on a sliding scale
down to the point of entire unfitness, when he might claim only the
value of the material in his house.

Up to that time, the only way to get rid of such a house had been to declare it a nuisance under
the sanitary code; but as the city could not very well pay for the removal of a nuisance, to order
it down seemed too much like robbery; so the owner was allowed to keep it. It takes time and a good
many lives to grow a sentiment such as this law expressed. The Anglo-Saxon respect for vested
rights is strong in us also. I remember going through a ragged school in London, once, and finding
the eyes of the children in the infant class red and sore. Suspecting some contagion, I made
inquiries, and was told that a collar factory next door was the cause of the trouble. The fumes
from it poisoned the children's eyes." And you allow it to stay, and let this thing go on? "I
asked, in wonder. The superintendent shrugged his shoulders." It is their factory, "he said.
I was on the point of saying something that might not have been polite, seeing that I was a guest,
when I remembered that, in the newspaper which I carried in my pocket, I had just been reading
a plea of some honorable M. P. for a much-needed reform in the system of counsel fees, then
being agitated in the House of Commons.

The reply of the solicitor general had made me laugh.

He was inclined to agree with the honorable member, but still preferred
to follow precedent by referring the matter to the Inns of Court.

Quite incidentally, he mentioned that the matter had been hanging fire in the House two hundred
years. It seemed very English to me then; but when we afterward came to tackle our rear tenements,
and in the first batch there was a row which I knew to have been picked
out by the sanitary inspector twenty-five years before as fit only
to be destroyed, I recognized that we were kin, after all.

That was Gotham Court. It was first on the list, and the Mott Street Barracks came next, when, as
executive officer of the Good Government Clubs, I helped the Board of Health put the law to the
test the following year. Roosevelt was Police President and Health
Commissioner; nobody was afraid of the landlord.

The Health Department kept a list of 66 old houses, with a population of 5460 tenants, in which
there had been 1313 deaths in a little over five years (1889-94). From among them we picked our lot,
and the department drove the tenants out.

The
owners went to law, one and all; but, to their surprise and dismay, the courts held with the health officers.
The moral effect was instant and overwhelming. Rather than keep up the fight, with no rent coming
in, the landlords surrendered at discretion. In consideration of this, compensation was allowed
them at the rate of about a thousand dollars a house, although they were really entitled only to
the value of the old bricks. The buildings all came under the head of" wholly unfit. "Gotham
Court, with its sixteen buildings, in which, many years before, a health inspector counted 146
cases of sickness, including" all kinds of infectious disease, "was bought for$ 19,750, and Mullen's
Court, adjoining, for$ 7251. To show the character of all, let two serve; in each case it is the official
record, upon which seizure was made, that is quoted: No. 98 Catherine Street:" The floor in the
apartments and the wooden steps leading to the second-floor apartment are broken, loose,
saturated with filth. The roof and eaves gutters leak, rendering the apartments wet. The
two apartments on the first floor consist of one room each, in which the tenants are compelled to
cook, eat, and sleep. The back walls are defective, the house wet and damp, and unfit for human habitation.
It robs the surrounding houses of light.

"" The sunlight never enters "was the constant refrain. No. 17 Sullivan Street:" Occupied by the
lowest whites and negroes, living together.

The houses are decayed from cellar to garret, and filthy beyond description,-- the filthiest, in fact,
we have ever seen. The beams, the floors, the plaster on the walls, where there is any plaster,
are rotten, and alive with vermin. They are a menace to the public health, and cannot be repaired.
Their annual death-rate in five years was 41.38. "The sunlight enters where these stood, at all
events, and into 58 other yards that once were plague spots.

Of 94 rear tenements seized that year, 60 were torn down, 33 of them
voluntarily by the owners; 29 were remodelled and allowed to stand,
chiefly as workshops; 5 other houses were standing empty, and yielding
no rent, when I last heard of them.

I suppose they have been demolished since. The worst of them all, the Mott Street Barracks, were
taken into court by the owner; but all the judges and juries in the land had no power to put
them back when it was decided upon a technicality that they should not have been destroyed offhand.
It was a case of"

They can't put you in jail for that. "--" Yes, but I am in jail. "They were gone, torn down under
the referee's decision that they ought to go, before the Appellate
Division called a halt.

We were not in a mood to trifle with the Barracks, or risk any of the law's delays. In 1888
I counted 360 tenants in these tenements, front and rear, all Italians, and the infant death-rate
of the Barracks that year was 325 per 1000. There were forty babies, and one in three of them had to die.
The general infant death-rate for the whole tenement-house population that year was 88.38.
In the four years following, during which the population and the death-rate of the houses were
both reduced with an effort, fifty-one funerals went out of the Barracks. With entire fitness,
a cemetery corporation held the mortgage upon the property. The referee allowed it the price
of opening one grave, in the settlement, gave one dollar to the lessee, and one hundred and
ten dollars to the landlord, who refused to collect and took his case into the courts. We waited to
see the landlord attack the law itself on the score of constitutionality, but he did not. The
Court of Appeals decided that it had not been shown that the Barracks might not have been used
for some other purpose than a tenement and that therefore we had been hasty. The city paid
damages, but it was all right. It was emphatically a case of haste making for speed. So far
the law stands unchallenged, both here and in Massachusetts, where they destroyed twice as
many unfit houses as we did in New York and stood their ground on its letter, paying the owners
the bare cost of the old timbers. As in every other instance, we
seized only the rear houses at the Barracks; but within a year or
two the front houses were also sold and destroyed too, and so disappeared
quite the worst rookery that was left on Manhattan Island.

Those of us who had explored it with the" midnight police "in its worst days had no cause to
wonder at its mortality. In Berlin they found the death-rate per thousand to be 163.5 where
a family occupied one room, 22.5 where it lived in two rooms, 7.5 in the case of three-room dwellers,
and 5.4 where they had four rooms. [22] Does any one ask yet why we fight the slum in Berlin and
New York? The Barracks in those days suggested the first kind. [Footnote 22:" Municipal Government
in Continental Europe, "by Albert Shaw.] I have said before that I do not believe in paying
the slum landlord for taking his hand off our throats, when we have got the grip on him in turn.
Mr. Roger Foster, who as a member of the Tenement House Committee drew the law, and as counsel
for the Health Department fought the landlords successfully in the
courts, holds to the opposite view.

I am bound to say that instances turned up in which it did seem a hardship to deprive the owners
of even such property. I remember especially a tenement in Roosevelt Street,
which was the patrimony and whole estate of two children.

With the rear house taken away, the income from the front would not be enough to cover the interest
on the mortgage. It was one of those things that occasionally make standing upon abstract principle
so very uncomfortable. I confess I never had the courage to ask what was done in their case. I know
that the tenement went, and I hope-- well, never mind what I hope. It has nothing to do with
the case. The house is down, and the main issue decided upon its
merits.

In the 94 tenements (counting the front houses in; they cannot be
separated from the rear tenements in the death registry) there were
in five years 956 deaths, a rate of 62.9 at a time when the general
city death-rate was 24.63.

It was the last and heaviest blow aimed at the abnormal mortality of a city that ought, by reason
of many advantages, to be one of the healthiest in the world. With clean streets, pure milk, medical
school inspection, antitoxin treatment of deadly diseases, and better sanitary methods generally;
with the sunlight let into its slums, and its worst plague spots cleaned out, the death-rate of
New York came down from 26.32 per 1000 inhabitants in 1887 to 19.53 in 1897. Inasmuch as a round half
million was added to its population within the ten years, it requires little figuring to show
that the number whose lives were literally saved by reform would people a city of no mean proportions.
The extraordinary spell of hot weather in the summer of 1896, when the temperature hung for ten
consecutive days in the nineties, with days and nights of extreme discomfort, brought out the
full meaning of this. While many were killed by sunstroke, the population as a whole was shown
to have acquired, in better hygienic surroundings, a much greater
power of resistance.

It yielded slowly to the heat. Where two days had been sufficient, in former years, to send the death-rate
up, it now took five; and the infant mortality remained low throughout the dreadful trial.
Perhaps the substitution of beer for whiskey as a summer drink had something to do with it; but
Colonel Waring's broom and unpolitical sanitation had more. Since it spared him so many voters,
the politician ought to have been grateful for this; but he was not. Death-rates are not as good political
arguments as tax rates, we found out. In the midst of it all, a policeman
whom I knew went to his Tammany captain to ask if Good Government Clubs were
political clubs within the meaning of the law which forbade policemen
joining such.

The answer he received set me to thinking:" Yes, the meanest, worst kind of political clubs, they
are. "Yet they had done nothing worse than to save the babies, the captain's with the rest. The
landlord read the signs better, and ran to cover till the storm should blow over. Houses that
had hardly known repairs since they were built were put in order with all speed. All over the city,
he made haste to set his house to rights, lest it be seized or brought to the bar in other ways. The
Good Government Clubs had their hands full that year (1896-97). They made war upon the dark
hall in the double-decker, and upon the cruller bakery. They compelled the opening of small parks,
or the condemnation of sites for them anyway, exposed the abuses of the civil courts, the" poor
man's courts, "urged on the building of new schools, cleaned up in the Tombs prison and hastened the
demolition of the wicked old pile, and took a hand in evolving a
sensible and humane system of dealing with the young vagrants who
were going to waste on free soup.

The proposition to establish a farm colony for their reclamation was met with the challenge
at Albany that" we have had enough reform in New York City, "and, as the event proved, for the
time being we had really gone as far as we could. But even that was a good long way. Some things
had been nailed that could never again be undone; and hand in hand with the effort to destroy
had gone another to build up, that promised to set us far enough ahead to appeal at last successfully
to the self-interest of the builder, if not to his humanity; or,
failing that, to compel him to decency.

If
that promise has not been all kept, the end is not yet. I believe it will be kept. The movement for
reform, in the matter of housing the people, had proceeded upon a clearly outlined plan that
apportioned to each of several forces its own share of the work. At a meeting held under the auspices
of the Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor, early in the days of the movement,
the field had been gone over thoroughly. To the Good Government Clubs fell the task, as already
set forth, of compelling the enforcement of the existing tenement-house laws. D. O. Mills, the
philanthropic banker, declared his purpose to build hotels which should prove that a bed and lodging
as good as any could be furnished to the great army of homeless men at a price that would compete
with the cheap lodging houses, and yet yield a profit to the owner. On behalf of a number of well-known
capitalists, who had been identified with the cause of tenement-house reform for years, Robert
Fulton Cutting, the president of the Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor, offered
to build homes for the working people that should be worthy of the name, on a large scale. A company
was formed, and chose for its president Dr. Elgin R. L. Gould, author of the government report
on the" Housing of the Working People, "the standard work on the
subject. And then Noah entered in and
his sons, his wife, and the wives of his sons, all into the ark to eschew the waters of the
flood. Of all the beasts and the fowls, and of all that moved and had life on earth, male and
female, Noah took in to him as our Lord had bidden. And seven days after they were entered,
the water began to increase. The wells of the abysms were broken, and the cataracts of heaven
were opened, that is to say the clouds, and it rained on the earth forty days and forty nights.
And the ark was elevate and borne upon the waters on height above the mountains and hills,
for the water was grown higher fifteen cubits above all the mountains, that it should purge
and wash the filth of the air. Then was consumed all that was on the earth living, man, woman,
and beast and birds. And all that ever bare life, so that nothing abode upon the earth, for
the water was fifteen cubits above the highest mountain of the earth. And when Noah was entered
he shut the door fast without forth, and limed it with glue.

And so the waters abode elevate in height an hundred and fifty days from the day that Noah
entered in. And our Lord then remembered Noah and all them that were in the ark with him, and
also on the beasts and fowls, and ceased the waters. And the wells and cataracts were closed,
and the rains were prohibited, and forbidden to rain no more. The seventh month, the twenty-seventh
day of the month, the ark rested on the hills of Armenia. The tenth month, of the first day
of the month, the tops of the hills appeared first. After these forty days after the lessing
of the waters, Noah opened the window and desired sore to have tidings of ceasing of the flood.
And sent out a raven for to have tidings, and when he was gone he returned no more again, for
peradventure she found some dead carrion of a beast swimming on the water, and lighted thereon
to feed her and was left there. After this he sent out a dove which flew out, and when she
could find no place to rest ne set her foot on, she returned unto Noah and he took her in.
Yet then were not the tops of the hills bare. And seven days after he sent her out again, which
at even returned, bearing a branch of an olive tree, burgeoning, in her mouth. And after other
seven days he sent her again, which came no more again. 

"Ven dey has work, ve gets some; ven dey hasn't, ve don't." He was an unusually gifted tailor as to
English, but apparently not as to business capacity. In the Astor tenements, in Elizabeth Street,
where we found forty-three families living in rooms intended for sixteen, I saw women finishing
"pants" at thirty cents a day. Some of the garments were of good grade, and some of poor; some
of them were soldiers'trousers, made for the government; but whether they received five,
seven, eight, or ten cents a pair, it came to thirty cents a day, except in a single instance,
in which two women, sewing from five in the morning till eleven at night, were able, being
practised hands, to finish forty-five "pants" at three and a half cents a pair, and so made
together over a dollar and a half. They were content, even happy. I suppose it seemed wealth
to them, coming from a land where a Parisian investigator of repute found three lire (not quite
sixty cents) per month a girl's wages.

I remember one of those flats, poor and dingy, yet with signs of the instinctive groping toward
orderly arrangement which I have observed so many times, and take to be evidence that in better
surroundings much might be made of these people. Clothes were hung to dry on a line strung
the whole length of the room. Upon couches by the wall some men were snoring. They were the
boarders. The "man" was out shovelling snow with the midnight shift. By a lamp with brown
paper shade, over at the window, sat two women sewing. One had a baby on her lap. Two sweet
little cherubs, nearly naked, slept on a pile of unfinished "pants," and smiled in their sleep.
A girl of six or seven dozed in a child's rocker between the two workers, with her head hanging
down on one side; the mother propped it up with her elbow as she sewed. They were all there,
and happy in being together even in such a place. On a corner shelf burned a night lamp before
a print of the Mother of God, flanked by two green bottles, which, seen at a certain angle, made
quite a festive show.

Complaint is made that the Italian promotes child labor. His children work at home on "pants"
and flowers at an hour when they ought to have been long in bed. Their sore eyes betray the
little flower-makers when they come tardily to school. Doubtless there are such cases, and quite
too many of them; yet, in the very block which I have spoken of, the investigation conducted
for the Gilder Tenement House Commission by the Department of Sociology of Columbia University,
under Professor Franklin H. Giddings, discovered, of 196 children of school age, only 23 at work
or at home, and in the next block only 27 out of 215. That was the showing of the foreign population
all the way through. Of 225 Russian Jewish children only 15 were missing from school, and of
354 little Bohemians only 21. The overcrowding of the schools and their long waiting lists occasionally
furnished the explanation why they were not there. Professor Giddings
reported, after considering all the evidence: "The foreign-born population
of the city is not, to any great extent, forcing children of legal
school age into money-earning occupations. On the contrary, this population
shows a strong desire to have its children acquire the common rudiments
of education. In Europe reigneth now most the christian
law and faith, wherein is many a rich realm. And so was the world departed to the three sons
of Noah.

T. CAMPBELL.

HERE FOLLOWETH THE LIFE OF ABRAHAM

The Sunday called Quinquagesima is read in the church the history of the holy patriarch Abraham
which was the son of Terah. This Terah was the tenth from Noah in the generation of Shem. Japhet
had seven sons and Ham four sons. Out of the generation of Ham Nimrod came, which was a wicked
man and cursed in his works, and began to make the tower of Babel which was great and high. The
landlords held it up until the last day of the session, when it was forced through by an angered
public opinion, shorn of its most significant clause, which proposed the licensing of tenements
and so their control and effective repression. However, the landlords had received a real
set-back. Many of them got rid of their property, which in a large number of cases they had
never seen, and tried to forget the source of their ill-gotten wealth. Light and air did find their
way into the tenements in a half-hearted fashion, and we began to count the tenants as "souls."
That is another of our milestones in the history of New York.

They were never reckoned so before; no one ever thought of them as
"souls." Their present partnership is at once poverty's worst hardship and
our worst blunder.

CHAPTER
III THE DEVIL'S MONEY That was what the women called it, and the
name stuck and killed the looters.

The young men of the East Side began it, and the women finished it.

It was a campaign of decency against Tammany, that one of 1901 of which
I am going to make the record brief as may be, for we all remember it; and
also, thank God, that decency won the fight.

