Amleth, meanwhile, who found that his shield had been filched from under his head, deliberately
shut his eyes and cunningly feigned sleep, hoping to regain by pretended what he had lost by
real slumbers. For he thought that the success of his one attempt would incline the spy to
deceive him a second time. And he was not mistaken. For as the spy came up stealthily, and
wanted to put back the shield and the writing in their old place, Amleth leapt up, seized him,
and detained him in bonds. Then he roused his retinue, and went to the abode of the queen.
As representing his father-in-law, he greeted her, and handled her the writing, sealed with
the king's seal. The queen, who was named Hermutrude, took and read it, and spoke most warmly
of Amleth's diligence and shrewdness, saying, that Feng had deserved his punishment, and that
the unfathomable wit of Amleth had accomplished a deed past all human estimation; seeing that
not only had his impenetrable depth devised a mode of revenging his father's death and his
mother's adultery, but it had further, by his notable deeds Of prowess, seized the kingdom
of the man whom he had found constantly plotting against him. She marvelled therefore that
a man of such instructed mind could have made the one slip of a mistaken marriage; for though
his renown almost rose above mortality, he seemed to have stumbled into an obscure and ignoble
match. For the parents of his wife had been slaves, though good luck had graced them with the
honours of royalty. Now (said she), when looking for a wife a wise man must reckon the lustre
of her birth and not of her beauty. Therefore, if he were to seek a match in a proper spirit,
he should weigh the ancestry, and not be smitten by the looks; for though looks were a lure
to temptation, yet their empty bedizenment had tarnished the white simplicity of many a man.
Now there was a woman, as nobly born as himself, whom he could take. She herself, whose means
were not poor nor her birth lowly, was worthy his embraces, since he did not surpass her in
royal wealth nor outshine her in the honour of his ancestors. It was no mean favour for such
a woman to offer her love, who in the case of other men had always followed her refusal with
the sword. Therefore she pressed him to transfer his wooing, to make over to her his marriage
vows, and to learn to prefer birth to beauty. So saying, she fell upon him with a close embrace.

Amleth was overjoyed at the gracious speech of the maiden, fell to kissing back, and returned
her close embrace, protesting that the maiden's wish was his own. Then a banquet was held,
friends bidden, the nobles gathered, and the marriage rites performed. When they were accomplished,
he went back to Britain with his bride, a strong band of Scots being told to follow close behind,
that he might have its help against the diverse treacheries in his path. As he was returning,
the daughter of the King of Britain, to whom he was still married, met him. Though she complained
that she was slighted by the wrong of having a paramour put over her, yet, she said, it would
be unworthy for her to hate him as an adulterer more than she loved him as a husband: nor would
she so far shrink from her lord as to bring herself to hide in silence the guile which she
knew was intended against him. For she had a son as a pledge of their marriage, and regard
for him, if nothing else, must have inclined his mother to the affection of a wife. "He," she
said, "may hate the supplanter of his mother, I will love her; no disaster shall put out my
flame for thee; no ill-will shall quench it, or prevent me from exposing the malignant designs
against thee, or from revealing the snares I have detected. Bethink thee, then, that thou must
beware of thy father-in-law, for thou hast thyself reaped the harvest of thy mission, foiled
the wishes of him who sent thee, and with willful trespass seized over all the fruit for thyself."
By this speech she showed herself more inclined to love her husband than her father.

While she thus spoke, the King of Britain came up and embraced his son-in-law closely, but
with little love, and welcomed him with a banquet, to hide his intended guile under a show
of generosity. But Amleth, having learnt the deceit, dissembled his fear, took a retinue of
two hundred horsemen, put on an under-shirt (of mail), and complied with the invitation, preferring
the peril of falling in with the king's deceit to the shame of hanging back. So much heed for
honour did he think that he must take in all things. As he rode up close, the king attacked
him just under the porch of the folding doors, and would have thrust him through with his javelin,
but that the hard shirt of mail threw off the blade. Amleth received a slight wound, and went
to the spot where he had bidden the Scottish warriors wait on duty. He then sent back to the
king his new wife's spy, whom he had captured. This man was to bear witness that he had secretly
taken from the coffer where it was kept the letter which was meant for his mistress, and thus
was to make the whole blame recoil on Hermutrude, by this studied excuse absolving Amleth from
the charge of treachery. The king without tarrying pursued Amleth hotly as he fled, and deprived
him of most of his forces. So Amleth, on the morrow, wishing to fight for dear life, and utterly
despairing of his powers of resistance, tried to increase his apparent numbers. He put stakes
under some of the dead bodies of his comrades to prop them up, set others on horseback like
living men, and tied others to neighbouring stones, not taking off any of their armour, and
dressing them in due order of line and wedge, just as if they were about to engage. The wing
composed of the dead was as thick as the troop of the living. It was an amazing spectacle this,
of dead men dragged out to battle, and corpses mustered to fight. The plan served him well,
for the very figures of the dead men showed like a vast array as the sunbeams struck them.
For those dead and senseless shapes restored the original number of the army so well, that
the mass might have been unthinned by the slaughter of yesterday. The Britons, terrified at
the spectacle, fled before fighting, conquered by the dead men whom they had overcome in life.
I cannot tell whether to think more of the cunning or of the good fortune of this victory.
The Danes came down on the king as he was tardily making off, and killed him. Amleth, triumphant,
made a great plundering, seized the spoils of Britain, and went back with his wives to his
own land.

Meanwhile Rorik had died, and Wiglek, who had come to the throne, had harassed Amleth's mother
with all manner of insolence and stripped her of her royal wealth, complaining that her son
had usurped the kingdom of Jutland and defrauded the King of Leire, who had the sole privilege
of giving and taking away the rights of high offices. This treatment Amleth took with such
forbearance as apparently to return kindness for slander, for he presented Wiglek with the
richest of his spoils. But afterwards he seized a chance of taking vengeance, attacked him,
subdued him, and from a covert became an open foe. Fialler, the governor of Skaane, he drove
into exile; and the tale is that Fialler retired to a spot called Undensakre, which is unknown
to our peoples. After this, Wiglek, recruited with the forces of Skaane and Zealand, sent envoys
to challenge Amleth to a war. Amleth, with his marvellous shrewdness, saw that he was tossed
between two difficulties, one of which involved disgrace and the other danger. For he knew
that if he took up the challenge he was threatened with peril of his life, while to shrink
from it would disgrace his reputation as a soldier. Yet in that spirit ever fixed on deeds
of prowess the desire to save his honour won the day. Dread of disaster was blunted by more
vehement thirst for glory; he would not tarnish the unblemished lustre of his fame by timidly
skulking from his fate. Also he saw that there is almost as wide a gap between a mean life
and a noble death as that which is acknowledged between honour and disgrace themselves.

Yet Amleth was enchained by such great love for Hermutrude, that he was more deeply concerned
in his mind about her future widowhood than about his own death, and cast about very zealously
how he could decide on some second husband for her before the opening of the war. Hermutrude,
therefore, declared that she had the courage of a man, and promised that she would not forsake
him even on the field, saying that the woman who dreaded to be united with her lord in death
was abominable. But she kept this rare promise ill; for when Amleth had been slain by Wiglek
in battle in Jutland, she yielded herself up unasked to be the conqueror's spoil and bride.
Thus all vows of woman are loosed by change of fortune and melted by the shifting of time;
the faith of their soul rests on a slippery foothold, and is weakened by casual chances; glib
in promises, and as sluggish in performance, all manner of lustful promptings enslave it, and
it bounds away with panting and precipitate desire, forgetful of old things in the ever hot
pursuit after something fresh. So ended Amleth. Had fortune been as kind to him as nature,
he would have equalled the gods in glory, and surpassed the labours of Hercules by his deeds
of prowess. A plain in Jutland is to be found, famous for his name and burial-place. Wiglek's
administration of the kingdom was long and peaceful, and he died of disease.

WERMUND, his son, succeeded him. The long and leisurely tranquillity of a most prosperous and
quiet time flowed by and Wermund in undisturbed security maintained a prolonged and steady
peace at home. He had no children during the prime of his life, but in his old age, by a belated
gift of fortune, he begat a son, Uffe, though all the years which had glided by had raised
him up no offspring. This Uffe surpassed all of his age in stature, but in his early youth
was supposed to have so dull and foolish a spirit as to be useless for all affairs public or
private. For from his first years he never used to play or make merry, but was so void of all
human pleasure that he kept his lips sealed in a perennial silence, and utterly restrained
his austere visage from the business of laughter. But though through the years of his youth
he was reputed for an utter fool, he afterwards left that despised estate and became famous,
turning out as great a pattern of wisdom and hardihood as he had been a picture of stagnation.
His father, seeing him such a simpleton, got him for a wife the daughter of Frowin, the governor
of the men of Sleswik; thinking that by his alliance with so famous a man Uffe would receive
help which would serve him well in administering the realm. Frowin had two sons, Ket and Wig,
who were youths of most brilliant parts, and their excellence, not less than that of Frowin,
Wermund destined to the future advantage of his son.

At this time the King of Sweden was Athisl, a man of notable fame and energy. After defeating
his neighbours far around, he was loth to leave the renown won by his prowess to be tarnished
in slothful ease, and by constant and zealous practice brought many novel exercises into vogue.
For one thing he had a daily habit of walking alone girt with splendid armour: in part because
he knew that nothing was more excellent in warfare than the continual practice of arms; and
in part that he might swell his glory by ever following this pursuit. Self-confidence claimed
as large a place in this man as thirst for fame. Nothing, he thought, could be so terrible
as to make him afraid that it would daunt his stout heart by its opposition. He carried his
arms into Denmark, and challenged Frowin to battle near Sleswik. The armies routed one another
with vast slaughter, and it happened that the generals came to engage in person, so that they
conducted the affair like a duel; and, in addition to the public issues of the war, the fight
was like a personal conflict. For both of them longed with equal earnestness for an issue of
the combat by which they might exhibit their valour, not by the help of their respective sides,
but by a trial of personal strength. The end was that, though the blows rained thick on either
side, Athisl prevailed and overthrew Frowin, and won a public victory as well as a duel, breaking
up and shattering the Danish ranks in all directions. When he returned to Sweden, he not only
counted the slaying of Frowin among the trophies of his valour, but even bragged of it past
measure, so ruining the glory of the deed by his wantonness of tongue. For it is sometimes
handsomer for deeds of valour to be shrouded in the modesty of silence than to be blazoned
in wanton talk.

Wermund raised the sons of Frowin to honours of the same rank as their father's, a kindness
which was only due to the children of his friend who had died for the country. This prompted
Athisl to carry the war again into Denmark. Emboldened therefore by his previous battle, he
called back, bringing with him not only no slender and feeble force, but all the flower of
the valour of Sweden, thinking he would seize the supremacy of all Denmark. Ket, the son of
Frowin, sent Folk, his chief officer, to take this news to Wermund, who then chanced to be
in his house Jellinge. (1) Folk found the king feasting with his friends, and did his errand,
admonishing him that here was the long-wished-for chance of war at hand, and pressing itself
upon the wishes of Wermund, to whom was give an immediate chance of victory and the free choice
of a speedy and honourable triumph. Great and unexpected were the sweets of good fortune, so
long sighed for, and now granted to him by this lucky event. For Athisl had come encompassed
with countless forces of the Swedes, just as though in his firm assurance he had made sure
of victory; and since the enemy who was going to fight would doubtless prefer death to flight,
this chance of war gave them a fortunate opportunity to take vengeance for their late disaster.

Wermund, declaring that he had performed his mission nobly and bravely, ordered that he should
take some little refreshment of the banquet, since "far-faring ever hurt fasters." When Folk
said that he had no kind of leisure to take food, he begged him to take a draught to quench
his thirst. This was given him; and Wermund also bade him keep the cup, which was of gold,
saying that men who were weary with the heat of wayfaring found it handier to take up the water
in a goblet than in the palms, and that it was better to use a cup for drinking than the hand.
When the king accompanied his great gift with such gracious words, the young man, overjoyed
at both, promised that, before the king should see him turn and flee, he would take a draught
of his own blood to the full measure of the liquor he had drunk.

With this doughty vow Wermund accounted himself well repaid, and got somewhat more joy from
giving the boon than the soldier had from gaining it. Nor did he find that Folk's talk was
braver than his fighting.

For, when battle had begun, it came to pass that amidst divers charges of the troops Folk and
Athisl met and fought a long while together; and that the host of the Swedes, following the
fate of their captain, took to flight, and Athisl also was wounded and fled from the battle
to his ships. And when Folk, dazed with wounds and toils, and moreover steeped alike in heat
and toil and thirst, had ceased to follow the rout of the enemy, then, in order to refresh
himself, he caught his own blood in his helmet, and put it to his lips to drain: by which deed
he gloriously requited the king's gift of the cup. Wermund, who chanced to see this, praised
him warmly for fulfilling his vow. Folk answered, that a noble vow ought to be strictly performed
to the end: a speech wherein he showed no less approval of his own deed than Wermund.

Now, while the conquerors had laid down their arms, and, as is usual after battle, were exchanging
diverse talk with one another, Ket, the governor of the men of Sleswik, declared that it was
a matter of great marvel to him how it was that Athisl, though difficulties strewed his path,
had contrived an opportunity to escape, especially as he had been the first and foremost in
the battle, but last of all in the retreat; and though there had not been one of the enemy
whose fall was so vehemently desired by the Danes. Wermund rejoined that he should know that
there were four kinds of warrior to be distinguished in every army. The fighters of the first
order were those who, tempering valour with forbearance, were keen to slay those who resisted,
but were ashamed to bear hard on fugitives. For these were the men who had won undoubted proofs
of prowess by veteran experience in arms, and who found their glory not in the flight of the
conquered, but in overcoming those whom they had to conquer. Then there was a second kind of
warriors, who were endowed with stout frame and spirit, but with no jot of compassion, and
who raged with savage and indiscriminate carnage against the backs as well as the breasts of
their foes. Now of this sort were the men carried away by hot and youthful blood, and striving
to grace their first campaign with good auguries of warfare. They burned as hotly with the
glow of youth as with the glow for glory, and thus rushed headlong into right or wrong with
equal recklessness. There was also the third kind, who, wavering betwixt shame and fear, could
not go forward for terror, while shame barred retreat. Of distinguished blood, but only notable
for their useless stature, they crowded the ranks with numbers and not with strength, smote
the foe more with their shadows than with their arms, and were only counted among the throng
of warriors as so many bodies to be seen. These men were lords of great riches, but excelled
more in birth than bravery; hungry for life because owning great possessions, they were forced
to yield to the sway of cowardice rather than nobleness. There were others, again, who brought
show to the war, and not substance, and who, foisting themselves into the rear of their comrades,
were the first to fly and the last to fight. One sure token of fear betrayed their feebleness;
for they always deliberately sought excuses to shirk, and followed with timid and sluggish
advance in the rear of the fighters. It must be supposed, therefore, that these were the reasons
why the king had escaped safely; for when he fled he was not pursued pertinaciously by the
men of the front rank; since these made it their business to preserve the victory, not to arrest
the conquered, and massed their wedges, in order that the fresh-won victory might be duly and
sufficiently guarded, and attain the fulness of triumph.

Now the second class of fighters, whose desire was to cut down everything in their way, had
left Athisl unscathed, from lack not of will but of opportunity; for they had lacked the chance
to hurt him rather than the daring. Moreover, though the men of the third kind, who frittered
away the very hour of battle by wandering about in a flurried fashion, and also hampered the
success of their own side, had had their chance of harming the king, they yet lacked courage
to assail him. In this way Wermund satisfied the dull amazement of Ket, and declared that he
had set forth and expounded the true reasons of the king's safe escape.

After this Athisl fled back to Sweden, still wantonly bragging of the slaughter of Frowin,
and constantly boasting the memory of his exploit with prolix recital of his deeds; not that
he bore calmly the shame of his defeat, but that he might salve the wound of his recent flight
by the honours of his ancient victory. This naturally much angered Ket and Wig, and they swore
a vow to unite in avenging their father. Thinking that they could hardly accomplish this in
open war, they took an equipment of lighter armament, and went to Sweden alone. Then, entering
a wood in which they had learnt by report that the king used to take his walks unaccompanied,
they hid their weapons. Then they talked long with Athisl, giving themselves out as deserters;
and when he asked them what was their native country, they said they were men of Sleswik, and
had left their land "for manslaughter". The king thought that this statement referred not to
their vow to commit the crime, but to the guilt of some crime already committed. For they desired
by this deceit to foil his inquisitiveness, so that the truthfulness of the statement might
baffle the wit of the questioner, and their true answer, being covertly shadowed forth in a
fiction, might inspire in him a belief that it was false. For famous men of old thought lying
a most shameful thing. Then Athisl said he would like to know whom the Danes believed to be
the slayer of Frowin. Ket replied that there was a doubt as to who ought to claim so illustrious
a deed, especially as the general testimony was that he had perished on the field of battle.
Athisl answered that it was idle to credit others with the death of Frowin, which he, and he
alone, had accomplished in mutual combat. Soon he asked whether Frowin had left any children.
Ket answering that two sons of his were alive, said that he would be very glad to learn their
age and stature. Ket replied that they were almost of the same size as themselves in body,
alike in years, and much resembling them in tallness. Then Athisl said: "If the mind and the
valour of their sire were theirs, a bitter tempest would break upon me." Then he asked whether
those men constantly spoke of the slaying of their father. Ket rejoined that it was idle to
go on talking and talking about a thing that could not be softened by any remedy, and declared
that it was no good to harp with constant vexation on an inexpiable ill. By saying this he
showed that threats ought not to anticipate vengeance.

When Ket saw that the king regularly walked apart alone in order to train his strength, he
took up his arms, and with his brother followed the king as he walked in front of them. Athisl,
when he saw them, stood his ground on the sand, thinking it shameful to avoid threateners.
Then they said that they would take vengeance for his slaying of Frowin, especially as he avowed
with so many arrogant vaunts that he alone was his slayer. But he told them to take heed lest
while they sought to compass their revenge, they should be so foolhardy as to engage him with
their feeble and powerless hand, and while desiring the destruction of another, should find
they had fallen themselves. Thus they would cut off their goodly promise of overhasty thirst
for glory. Let them then save their youth and spare their promise; let them not be seized so
lightly with a desire to perish. Therefore, let them suffer him to requite with money the trespass
done them in their father's death, and account it great honour that they would be credited
with forcing so mighty a chief to pay a fine, and in a manner with shaking him with overmastering
fear. Yet he said he advised them thus, not because he was really terrified, but because he
was moved with compassion for their youth. Ket replied that it was idle to waste time in beating
so much about the bush and trying to sap their righteous longing for revenge by an offer of
pelf. So he bade him come forward and make trial with him in single combat of whatever strength
he had. He himself would do without the aid of his brother, and would fight with his own strength,
lest it should appear a shameful and unequal combat, for the ancients held it to be unfair,
and also infamous, for two men to fight against one; and a victory gained by this kind of fighting
they did not account honourable, but more like a disgrace than a glory. Indeed, it was considered
not only a poor, but a most shameful exploit for two men to overpower one.

But Athisl was filled with such assurance that he bade them both assail him at once, declaring
that if he could not cure them of the desire to fight, he would at least give them the chance
of fighting more safely. But Ket shrank so much from this favour that he swore he would accept
death sooner: for he thought that the terms of battle thus offered would be turned into a reproach
to himself. So he engaged hotly with Athisl, who desirous to fight him in a forbearing fashion,
merely thrust lightly with his blade and struck upon his shield; thus guarding his own safety
with more hardihood than success. When he had done this some while, he advised him to take
his brother to share in his enterprise, and not be ashamed to ask for the help of another hand,
since his unaided efforts were useless. If he refused, said Athisl, he should not be spared;
then making good his threats, he assailed him with all his might. But Ket received him with
so sturdy a stroke of his sword, that it split the helmet and forced its way down upon the
head. Stung by the wound (for a stream of blood flowed from his poll), he attacked Ket with
a shower of nimble blows, and drove him to his knees. Wig, leaning more to personal love than
to general usage, (2) could not bear the sight, but made affection conquer shame, and attacking
Athisl, chose rather to defend the weakness of his brother than to look on at it. But he won
more infamy than glory by the deed. In helping his brother he had violated the appointed conditions
of the duel; and the help that he gave him was thought more useful than honourable. For on
the one scale he inclined to the side of disgrace, and on the other to that of affection. Thereupon
they perceived themselves that their killing of Athisl had been more swift than glorious. Yet,
not to hide the deed from the common people, they cut off his head, slung his body on a horse,
took it out of the wood, and handed it over to the dwellers in a village near, announcing that
the sons of Frowin had taken vengeance upon Athisl, King of the Swedes, for the slaying of
their father. Boasting of such a victory as this, they were received by Wermund with the highest
honours; for he thought they had done a most useful deed, and he preferred to regard the glory
of being rid of a rival with more attention than the infamy of committing an outrage. Nor did
he judge that the killing of a tyrant was in any wise akin to shame. It passed into a proverb
among foreigners, that the death of the king had broken down the ancient principle of combat.

When Wermund was losing his sight by infirmity of age, the King of Saxony, thinking that Denmark
lacked a leader, sent envoys ordering him to surrender to his charge the kingdom which he held
beyond the due term of life; lest, if he thirsted to hold sway too long, he should strip his
country of laws and defence. For how could he be reckoned a king, whose spirit was darkened
with age, and his eyes with blindness not less black and awful? If he refused, but yet had
a son who would dare to accept a challenge and fight with his son, let him agree that the victor
should possess the realm. But if he approved neither offer, let him learn that he must be dealt
with by weapons and not by warnings; and in the end he must unwillingly surrender what he was
too proud at first to yield uncompelled. Wermund, shaken by deep sighs, answered that it was
too insolent to sting him with these taunts upon his years; for he had passed no timorous youth,
nor shrunk from battle, that age should bring him to this extreme misery. It was equally unfitting
to cast in his teeth the infirmity of his blindness: for it was common for a loss of this kind
to accompany such a time of life as his, and it seemed a calamity fitter for sympathy than
for taunts. It were juster to fix the blame on the impatience of the King of Saxony, whom it
would have beseemed to wait for the old man's death, and not demand his throne; for it was
somewhat better to succeed to the dead than to rob the living. Yet, that he might not be thought
to make over the honours of his ancient freedom, like a madman, to the possession of another,
he would accept the challenge with his own hand. The envoys answered that they knew that their
king would shrink from the mockery of fighting a blind man, for such an absurd mode of combat
was thought more shameful than honourable. It would surely be better to settle the affair by
means of their offspring on either side. The Danes were in consternation, and at a sudden loss
for a reply: but Uffe, who happened to be there with the rest, craved his father's leave to
answer; and suddenly the dumb as it were spake. When Wermund asked who had thus begged leave
to speak, and the attendants said that it was Uffe, he declared that it was enough that the
insolent foreigner should jeer at the pangs of his misery, without those of his own household
vexing him with the same wanton effrontery. But the courtiers persistently averred that this
man was Uffe; and the king said: "He is free, whosoever he be, to say out what he thinks."
Then said Uffe, "that it was idle for their king to covet a realm which could rely not only
on the service of its own ruler, but also on the arms and wisdom of most valiant nobles. Moreover,
the king did not lack a son nor the kingdom an heir; and they were to know that he had made
up his mind to fight not only the son of their king, but also, at the same time, whatsoever
man the prince should elect as his comrade out of the bravest of their nation."

The envoys laughed when they beard this, thinking it idle lip-courage. Instantly the ground
for the battle was agreed on, and a fixed time appointed. But the bystanders were so amazed
by the strangeness of Uffe's speaking and challenging, that one can scarce say if they were
more astonished at his words or at his assurance.

But on the departure of the envoys Wermund praised him who had made the answer, because he
had proved his confidence in his own valour by challenging not one only, but two; and said
that he would sooner quit his kingdom for him, whoever he was, than for an insolent foe. But
when one and all testified that he who with lofty self-confidence had spurned the arrogance
of the envoys was his own son, he bade him come nearer to him, wishing to test with his hands
what he could not with his eyes. Then he carefully felt his body, and found by the size of
his limbs and by his features that he was his son; and then began to believe their assertions,
and to ask him why he had taken pains to hide so sweet an eloquence with such careful dissembling,
and had borne to live through so long a span of life without utterance or any intercourse of
talk, so as to let men think him utterly incapable of speech, and a born mute. He replied that
he had been hitherto satisfied with the protection of his father, that he had not needed the
use of his own voice, until he saw the wisdom of his own land hard pressed by the glibness
of a foreigner. The king also asked him why he had chosen to challenge two rather than one.
He said he had desired this mode of combat in order that the death of King Athisl, which, having
been caused by two men, was a standing reproach to the Danes, might be balanced by the exploit
of one, and that a new ensample of valour might erase the ancient record of their disgrace.
Fresh honour, he said, would thus obliterate the guilt of their old dishonour.

Wermund said that his son had judged all things rightly, and bade him first learn the use of
arms, since he had been little accustomed to them. When they were offered to Uffe, he split
the narrow links of the mail-coats by the mighty girth of his chest, nor could any be found
large enough to hold him properly. For he was too hugely built to be able to use the arms of
any other man. At last, when he was bursting even his father's coat of mail by the violent
compression of his body, Wermund ordered it to be cut away on the left side and patched with
a buckle; thinking it mattered little if the side guarded by the shield were exposed to the
sword. He also told him to be most careful in fixing on a sword which he could use safely.
Several were offered him; but Uffe, grasping the hilt, shattered them one after the other into
flinders by shaking them, and not a single blade was of so hard a temper but at the first blow
he broke it into many pieces. But the king had a sword of extraordinary sharpness, called "Skrep",
which at a single blow of the smiter struck straight through and cleft asunder any obstacle
whatsoever; nor would aught be hard enough to check its edge when driven home. The king, loth
to leave this for the benefit of posterity, and greatly grudging others the use of it, had
buried it deep in the earth, meaning, since he had no hopes of his son's improvement, to debar
everyone else from using it. But when he was now asked whether he had a sword worthy of the
strength of Uffe, he said that he had one which, if he could recognize the lie of the ground
and find what he had consigned long ago to earth, he could offer him as worthy of his bodily
strength. Then he bade them lead him into a field, and kept questioning his companions over
all the ground. At last he recognised the tokens, found the spot where he had buried the sword,
drew it out of its hole, and handed it to his son. Uffe saw it was frail with great age and
rusted away; and, not daring to strike with it, asked if he must prove this one also like the
rest, declaring that he must try its temper before the battle ought to be fought. Wermund replied
that if this sword were shattered by mere brandishing, there was nothing left which could serve
for such strength as his. He must, therefore, forbear from the act, whose issue remained so
doubtful.

So they repaired to the field of battle as agreed. It is fast encompassed by the waters of
the river Eider, which roll between, and forbid any approach save by ship. Hither Uffe went
unattended, while the Prince of Saxony was followed by a champion famous for his strength.
Dense crowds on either side, eager to see, thronged each winding bank, and all bent their eyes
upon this scene. Wermund planted himself on the end of the bridge, determined to perish in
the waters if defeat were the lot of his son: he would rather share the fall of his own flesh
and blood than behold, with heart full of anguish, the destruction of his own country. Both
the warriors assaulted Uffe; but, distrusting his sword, he parried the blows of both with
his shield, being determined to wait patiently and see which of the two he must beware of most
heedfully, so that he might reach that one at all events with a single stroke of his blade.
Wermund, thinking that his feebleness was at fault, that he took the blows so patiently, dragged
himself little by little, in his longing for death, forward to the western edge of the bridge,
meaning to fling himself down and perish, should all be over with his son.

Fortune shielded the old father, for Uffe told the prince to engage with him more briskly,
and to do some deed of prowess worthy of his famous race; lest the lowborn squire should seem
braver than the prince. Then, in order to try the bravery of the champion, he bade him not
skulk timorously at his master's heels, but requite by noble deeds of combat the trust placed
in him by his prince, who had chosen him to be his single partner in the battle. The other
complied, and when shame drove him to fight at close quarters, Uffe clove him through with
the first stroke of his blade. The sound revived Wermund, who said that he heard the sword
of his son, and asked "on what particular part he had dealt the blow?" Then the retainers answered
that it had gone through no one limb, but the man's whole frame; whereat Wermund drew back
from the precipice and came on the bridge, longing now as passionately to live as he had just
wished to die. Then Uffe, wishing to destroy his remaining foe after the fashion of the first,
incited the prince with vehement words to offer some sacrifice by way of requital to the shade
of the servant slain in his cause. Drawing him by those appeals, and warily noting the right
spot to plant his blow, he turned the other edge of his sword to the front, fearing that the
thin side of his blade was too frail for his strength, and smote with a piercing stroke through
the prince's body. When Wermund heard it, he said that the sound of his sword "Skrep" had reached
his ear for the second time. Then, when the judges announced that his son had killed both enemies,
he burst into tears from excess of joy. Thus gladness bedewed the cheeks which sorrow could
not moisten. So while the Saxons, sad and shamefaced, bore their champions to burial with bitter
shame, the Danes welcomed Uffe and bounded for joy. Then no more was heard of the disgrace
of the murder of Athisl, and there was an end of the taunts of the Saxons.

Thus the realm of Saxony was transferred to the Danes, and Uffe, after his father, undertook
its government; and he, who had not been thought equal to administering a single kingdom properly,
was now appointed to manage both. Most men have called him Olaf, and he has won the name of
"the Gentle" for his forbearing spirit. His later deeds, lost in antiquity, have lacked formal
record. But it may well be supposed that when their beginnings were so notable, their sequel
was glorious. I am so brief in considering his doings, because the lustre of the famous men
of our nation has been lost to memory and praise by the lack of writings. But if by good luck
our land had in old time been endowed with the Latin tongue, there would have been countless
volumes to read of the exploits of the Danes.

Uffe was succeeded by his son DAN, who carried his arms against foreigners, and increased his
sovereignty with many a trophy; but he tarnished the brightness of the glory he had won by
foul and abominable presumption; falling so far away from the honour of his famous father,
who surpassed all others in modesty, that he contrariwise was puffed up and proudly exalted
in spirit, so that he scorned all other men. He also squandered the goods of his father on
infamies, as well as his own winnings from the spoils of foreign nations; and he devoured in
expenditure on luxuries the wealth which should have ministered to his royal estate. Thus do
sons sometimes, like monstrous births, degenerate from their ancestors.

After this HUGLEIK was king, who is said to have defeated in battle at sea Homod and Hogrim,
the despots of Sweden.

