As to the Duke of Argyll, we found that the picture drawn of him by his countrymen in Scotland
was in every way correct. Though slight of figure, with fair complexion and blue eyes, his
whole appearance is indicative of energy and vivacity. His talents and efficiency have made
him a member of the British Cabinet at a much earlier age than is usual; and he has distinguished
himself not only in political life, but as a writer, having given to the world a work on Presbyterianism,
embracing an analysis of the ecclesiastical history of Scotland since the Reformation, which
is spoken of as written with great ability, and in a most liberal spirit. He made many inquiries
about our distinguished men, particularly of Emerson, Longfellow, and Hawthorne; also of Prescott,
who appears to be a general favorite here. I felt at the moment that we never value our own
literary men so much as when we are placed in a circle of intelligent foreigners.

The following evening we went to dine with our old friends of the Dingle, Mr. and Mrs. Edward
Cropper, who are now spending a little time in London. We were delighted to meet them once
more and to hear from our Liverpool friends. Mrs. Cropper's father, Lord Denman, has returned
to England, though with no sensible improvement in his health.

At dinner we were introduced to Lord and Lady Hatherton. Lady Hatherton is a person of great
cultivation and intelligence, warmly interested in all the progressive movements of the day;
and I gained much information in her society. There were also present Sir Charles and Lady
Trevelyan; the former holds an appointment at the treasury, and Lady Trevelyan is a sister
of Macaulay.

In the evening quite a circle came in, among others Lady Emma Campbell, sister of the Duke
of Argyll; the daughters of the Archbishop of Canterbury, who very kindly invited me to visit
them at Lambeth; and Mr. Arthur Helps, besides many others whose names I need not mention.

May 7. This evening our house was opened in a general way for callers, who were coming and
going all the evening. I think there must have been over two hundred people, among them Martin
Farquhar Tupper, a little man with fresh, rosy complexion and cheery, joyous manners; and Mary
Howitt, just such a cheerful, sensible, fireside companion as we find her in her books,--winning
love and trust the very first moment of the interview.

The general topic of remark on meeting me seems to be, that I am not so bad-looking as they
were afraid I was; and I do assure you that when I have seen the things that are put up in
the shop windows here with my name under them, I have been in wondering admiration at the boundless
loving-kindness of my English and Scottish friends in keeping up such a warm heart for such
a Gorgon. I should think that the Sphinx in the London Museum might have sat for most of them.
I am going to make a collection of these portraits to bring home to you. There is a great variety
of them, and they will be useful, like the Irishman's guide-board, which showed where the road
did not go.

Before the evening was through I was talked out and worn out; there was hardly a chip of me
left. To-morrow at eleven o'clock comes the meeting at Stafford House. What it will amount
to I do not know; but I take no thought for the morrow.

May 8.

MY DEAR C.,--In fulfillment of my agreement I will tell you, as nearly as I can remember, all
the details of the meeting at Stafford House. At about eleven o'clock we drove under the arched
carriage-way of a mansion externally not very showy in appearance.

When the duchess appeared, I thought she looked handsomer by daylight than in the evening.
She received us with the same warm and simple kindness which she had shown before. We were
presented to the Duke of Sutherland. He is a tall, slender man, with rather a thin face, light-
brown hair, and a mild blue eye, with an air of gentleness and dignity.

Among the first that entered were the members of the family, the Duke and Duchess of Argyll,
Lord and Lady Blantyre, the Marquis and Marchioness of Stafford, and Lady Emma Campbell. Then
followed Lord Shaftesbury with his beautiful lady, and her father and mother, Lord and Lady
Palmerston. Lord Palmerston is of middle height, with a keen dark eye and black hair streaked
with gray. There is something peculiarly alert and vivacious about all his movements; in short,
his appearance perfectly answers to what we know of him from his public life. One has a strange,
mythological feeling about the existence of people of whom one hears for many years without
ever seeing them. While talking with Lord Palmerston I could but remember how often I had heard
father and Mr. S. exulting over his foreign dispatches by our own fireside. There were present,
also, Lord John Russell, Mr. Gladstone, and Lord Granville. The latter we all thought very
strikingly resembled in his appearance the poet Longfellow.

After lunch the whole party ascended to the picture-gallery, passing on our way the grand staircase
and hall, said to be the most magnificent in Europe. The company now began to assemble and
throng the gallery, and very soon the vast room was crowded. Among the throng I remember many
presentations, but of course must have forgotten many more. Archbishop Whateley was there,
with Mrs. and Miss Whateley; Macaulay, with two of his sisters; Milman, the poet and historian;
the Bishop of Oxford, Chevalier Bunsen and lady, and many more.

When all the company were together, Lord Shaftesbury read a very short, kind, and considerate
address in behalf of the ladies of England, expressive of their cordial welcome.

This Stafford House meeting, in any view of it, is a most remarkable fact. Kind and gratifying
as its arrangements have been to me, I am far from appropriating it to myself individually
as a personal honor. I rather regard it as the most public expression possible of the feelings
of the women of England on one of the most important questions of our day, that of individual
liberty considered in its religious bearings.

On this occasion the Duchess of Sutherland presented Mrs. Stowe with a superb gold bracelet,
made in the form of a slave's shackle, bearing the inscription: "We trust it is a memorial
of a chain that is soon to be broken." On two of the links were inscribed the dates of the
abolition of the slave-trade and of slavery in English territory. Years after its presentation
to her, Mrs. Stowe was able to have engraved on the clasp of this bracelet, "Constitutional
Amendment (forever abolishing slavery in the United States)."

Continuing her interesting journal, Mrs. Stowe writes, May 9th:--

DEAR E.,--This letter I consecrate to you, because I know that the persons and things to be
introduced into it will most particularly be appreciated by you.

In your evening reading circles, Macaulay, Sydney Smith, and Milman have long been such familiar
names that you will be glad to go with me over all the scenes of my morning breakfast at Sir
Charles Trevelyan's yesterday. Lady Trevelyan, I believe I have said before, is a sister of
Macaulay.

We were set down at Westbourne Terrace somewhere, I believe, about eleven o'clock, and found
quite a number already in the drawing-room. I had met Macaulay before, but being seated between
him and Dean Milman, I must confess I was a little embarrassed at times, because I wanted to
hear what they were both saying at the same time. However, by the use of the faculty by which
you play a piano with both hands, I got on very comfortably.

There were several other persons of note present at this breakfast, whose conversation I had
not an opportunity of hearing, as they sat at a distance from me. There was Lord Glenelg, brother
of Sir Robert Grant, governor of Bombay, whose beautiful hymns have rendered him familiar in
America. The favorite one, commencing

 "When gathering clouds around I view,"

was from his pen.

The historian Hallam was also present, and I think it very likely there may have been other
celebrities whom I did not know. I am always finding out, a day or two after, that I have been
with somebody very remarkable and did not know it at the time.

Under date of May 18th she writes to her sister Mary:--

DEAR M.,--I can compare the embarrassment of our London life, with its multiplied solicitations
and infinite stimulants to curiosity and desire, only to that annual perplexity which used
to beset us in our childhood on Thanksgiving Day. Like Miss Edgeworth's philosophic little
Frank, we are obliged to make out a list of what man must want, and of what he may want; and
in our list of the former we set down, in large and decisive characters, one quiet day for
the exploration and enjoyment of Windsor.

The ride was done all too soon. About eleven o'clock we found ourselves going up the old stone
steps to the castle. We went first through the state apartments. The principal thing that interested
me was the ball-room, which was a perfect gallery of Vandyke's paintings. After leaving the
ball-room we filed off to the proper quarter to show our orders for the private rooms. The
state apartments, which we had been looking at, are open at all times, but the private apartments
can only be seen in the Queen's absence and by a special permission, which had been procured
for us on that occasion by the kindness of the Duchess of Sutherland.

One of the first objects that attracted my attention upon entering the vestibule was a baby's
wicker wagon, standing in one corner. It was much such a carriage as all mothers are familiar
with; such as figures largely in the history of almost every family. It had neat curtains and
cushions of green merino, and was not royal, only maternal. I mused over the little thing with
a good deal of interest.

We went for our dinner to the White Hart, the very inn which Shakespeare celebrates in his
"Merry Wives," and had a most overflowing merry time of it. After dinner we had a beautiful drive.

We were bent upon looking up the church which gave rise to Gray's "Elegy in a Country Churchyard,"
intending when we got there to have a little scene over it; Mr. S., in all the conscious importance
of having been there before, assuring us that he knew exactly where it was. So, after some
difficulty with our coachman, and being stopped at one church which would not answer our purpose
in any respect, we were at last set down by one which looked authentic; embowered in mossy
elms, with a most ancient and goblin yew-tree, an ivy-mantled tower, all perfect as could be.
Here, leaning on the old fence, we repeated the Elegy, which certainly applies here as beautifully
as language could apply.

Imagine our chagrin, on returning to London, at being informed that we had not been to the
genuine churchyard after all. The gentleman who wept over the scenes of his early days on the
wrong doorstep was not more grievously disappointed. However, he and we could both console
ourselves with the reflection that the emotion was admirable, and wanted only the right place
to make it the most appropriate in the world.

The evening after our return from Windsor was spent with our kind friends, Mr. and Mrs. Gurney.
After breakfast the next day, Mr. S., C., and I drove out to call upon Kossuth. We found him
in an obscure lodging on the outskirts of London. I would that some of the editors in America,
who have thrown out insinuations about his living in luxury, could have seen the utter bareness
and plainness of the reception room, which had nothing in it beyond the simplest necessaries.
He entered into conversation with us with cheerfulness, speaking English well, though with
the idioms of foreign languages. When we parted he took my hand kindly and said, "God bless
you, my child!"

I have been quite amused with something which has happened lately. This week the "Times" has
informed the United Kingdom that Mrs. Stowe is getting a new dress made! It wants to know if
Mrs. Stowe is aware what sort of a place her dress is being made in; and there is a letter
from a dressmaker's apprentice stating that it is being made up piecemeal, in the most shockingly
distressed dens of London, by poor, miserable white slaves, worse treated than the plantation
slaves of America!

Now Mrs. Stowe did not know anything of this, but simply gave the silk into the hands of a
friend, and was in due time waited on in her own apartment by a very respectable-appearing
woman, who offered to make the dress, and lo, this is the result! Since the publication of
this piece, I have received earnest missives, from various parts of the country, begging me
to interfere, hoping that I was not going to patronize the white slavery of England, and that
I would employ my talents equally against oppression in every form. Could these people only
know in what sweet simplicity I had been living in the State of Maine, where the only dressmaker
of our circle was an intelligent, refined, well-educated woman who was considered as the equal
of us all, and whose spring and fall ministrations to our wardrobe were regarded a double pleasure,--a
friendly visit as well as a domestic assistance,--I say, could they know all this, they would
see how guiltless I was in the matter. I verily never thought but that the nice, pleasant person
who came to measure me for my silk dress was going to take it home and make it herself; it
never occurred to me that she was the head of an establishment.

May 22, she writes to her husband, whose duties had obliged him to return to America: "To-day
we went to hear a sermon in behalf of the ragged schools by the Archbishop of Canterbury. My
thoughts have been much saddened by the news which I received of the death of Mary Edmonson."

"May 30. The next day from my last letter came off Miss Greenfield's concert, of which I send
a card. You see in what company they have put your poor little wife. Funny!--isn't it? Well,
the Hons. and Right Hons. all were there. I sat by Lord Carlisle.

"After the concert the duchess asked Lady Hatherton and me to come round to Stafford House
and take tea, which was not a thing to be despised, either on account of the tea or the duchess.
A lovelier time we never had,--present, the Duchess of Argyll, Lady Caroline Campbell, Lady
Hatherton, and myself. We had the nicest cup of tea, with such cream, and grapes and apricots,
with some Italian bread, etc.

"When we were going the duchess got me, on some pretext, into another room, and came up and
put her arms round me, with her noble face all full of feeling.

"'Oh, Mrs. Stowe, I have been reading that last chapter in the "Key"; Argyll read it aloud
to us. Oh, surely, surely you will succeed,--God surely will bless you!'

"I said then that I thanked her for all her love and feeling for us, told her how earnestly
all the women of England sympathized with her, and many in America. She looked really radiant
and inspired. Had those who hang back from our cause seen her face, it might have put a soul
into them as she said again, 'It will be done--it will be done--oh, I trust and pray it may!'

"So we kissed each other, and vowed friendship and fidelity--so I came away.

"To-day I am going with Lord Shaftesbury to St. Paul's to see the charity children, after which
lunch with Dean Milman.

"May 31. We went to lunch with Miss R. at Oxford Terrace, where, among a number of distinguished
guests, was Lady Byron, with whom I had a few moments of deeply interesting conversation. No
engravings that ever have been circulated in America do any justice to her appearance. She
is of slight figure, formed with exceeding delicacy, and her whole form, face, dress, and air
unite to make an impression of a character singularly dignified, gentle, pure, and yet strong.
No words addressed to me in any conversation hitherto have made their way to my inner soul
with such force as a few remarks dropped by her on the present religious aspect of England,--remarks
of such quality as one seldom hears.

"According to request, I will endeavor to keep you informed of all our goings-on after you
left, up to the time of our departure for Paris.

"We have borne in mind your advice to hasten away to the Continent. Charles wrote, a day or
two since, to Mrs. C. at Paris to secure very private lodgings, and by no means let any one
know that we were coming. She has replied urging us to come to her house, and promising entire
seclusion and rest. So, since you departed, we have been passing with a kind of comprehensive
skip and jump over remaining engagements. And just the evening after you left came off the
presentation of the inkstand by the ladies of Surrey Chapel.

"It is a beautiful specimen of silver-work, eighteen inches long, with a group of silver figures
on it representing Religion, with the Bible in her hand, giving liberty to the slave. The slave
is a masterly piece of work. He stands with his hands clasped, looking up to Heaven, while
a white man is knocking the shackles from his feet. But the prettiest part of the scene was
the presentation of a gold pen by a band of beautiful children, one of whom made a very pretty
speech. I called the little things to come and stand around me, and talked with them a few
minutes, and this was all the speaking that fell to my share.

"To-morrow we go--go to quiet, to obscurity, to peace--to Paris, to Switzerland; there we shall
find the loveliest glen, and, as the Bible says, 'fall on sleep.'

"Paris, June 4. Here we are in Paris, in a most charming family. I have been out all the morning
exploring shops, streets, boulevards, and seeing and hearing life in Paris. When one has a
pleasant home and friends to return to, this gay, bustling, vivacious, graceful city is one
of the most charming things in the world; and we have a most charming home.

"I wish the children could see these Tuileries with their statues and fountains, men, women,
and children seated in family groups under the trees, chatting, reading aloud, working muslin,--children
driving hoop, playing ball, all alive and chattering French. Such fresh, pretty girls as are
in the shops here! Je suis ravé, as they say. In short I am decidedly in a French humor, and
am taking things quite couleur de rose.

"Monday, June 13. We went this morning to the studio of M. Belloc, who is to paint my portrait.
The first question which he proposed, with a genuine French air, was the question of 'pose'
or position. It was concluded that, as other pictures had taken me looking at the spectator,
this should take me looking away. M. Belloc remarked that M. Charpentier said I appeared always
with the air of an observer,--was always looking around on everything. Hence M. Belloc would
take me 'en observatrice, mais pas en curieuse,'--with the air of observation, but not of curiosity.
By and by M. Charpentier came in. He began panegyrizing 'Uncle Tom,' and this led to a discussion
of the ground of its unprecedented success. In his thirty- five years' experience as a bookseller,
he had known nothing like it. It surpassed all modern writings! At first he would not read
it; his taste was for old masters of a century or two ago. 'Like M. Belloc in painting,' said
I. At length he found his friend M., the first intelligence of the age, reading it.

"'What, you, too?' said he.

"'Ah, ah!' replied the friend; 'say nothing about this book! There is nothing like it. This
leaves us all behind,--all, all, miles behind!'

"M. Belloc said the reason was because there was in it more genuine faith than in any book;
and we branched off into florid eloquence touching paganism, Christianity, and art.

"Wednesday, June 22. Adieu to Paris! Ho for Chalons-sur-Saône! After affectionate farewells
of our kind friends, by eleven o'clock we were rushing, in the pleasantest of cars, over the
smoothest of rails, through Burgundy. We arrived at Chalons at nine P. M.

"Thursday, 23, eight o'clock A. M. Since five we have had a fine bustle on the quay below our
windows. There lay three steamers, shaped for all the world like our last night's rolls. One
would think Ichabod Crane might sit astride one of them and dip his feet in the water. They
ought to be swift. L'Hirondelle (The Swallow) flew at five; another at six. We leave at nine.

"Lyons. There was a scene of indescribable confusion upon our arrival here. Out of the hold
of our steamer a man with a rope and hook began hauling baggage up a smooth board. Three hundred
people were sorting their goods without checks. Porters were shouldering immense loads, four
or five heavy trunks at once, corded together, and stalking off Atlantean. Hat-boxes, bandboxes,
and valises burst like a meteoric shower out of a crater. 'A moi, à moi!' was the cry, from
old men, young women, soldiers, shopkeepers, and frères, scuffling and shoving together.

"Saturday, June 25. Lyons to Genève. As this was our first experience in the diligence line,
we noticed particularly every peculiarity. I had had the idea that a diligence was a ricketty,
slow- moulded antediluvian nondescript, toiling patiently along over impassable roads at a
snail's pace. Judge of my astonishment at finding it a full-blooded, vigorous monster, of unscrupulous
railway momentum and imperturbable equipoise of mind. Down the macadamized slopes we thundered
at a prodigious pace; up the hills we trotted, with six horses, three abreast; madly through
the little towns we burst, like a whirlwind, crashing across the pebbled streets, and out upon
the broad, smooth road again. Before we had well considered the fact that we were out of Lyons
we stopped to change horses. Done in a jiffy; and whoop, crick, crack, whack, rumble, bump,
whirr, whisk, away we blazed, till, ere we knew it, another change and another.

"As evening drew on, a wind sprang up and a storm seemed gathering on the Jura. The rain dashed
against the panes of the berlin as we rode past the grim-faced monarch of the 'misty shroud.'
It was night as we drove into Geneva and stopped at the Messagerie. I heard with joy a voice
demanding if this were Madame Besshare. I replied, not without some scruples of conscience,
'Oui, Monsieur, c'est moi,' though the name did not sound exactly like the one to which I had
been wont to respond. In half an hour we were at home in the mansion of Monsieur Fazy."

From Geneva the party made a tour of the Swiss Alps, spending some weeks among them. While
there Charles Beecher wrote from a small hotel at the foot of the Jura:--

"The people of the neighborhood, having discovered who Harriet was, were very kind, and full
of delight at seeing her. It was Scotland over again. We have had to be unflinching to prevent
her being overwhelmed, both in Paris and Geneva, by the same demonstrations of regard. To this
we were driven, as a matter of life and death. It was touching to listen to the talk of these
secluded mountaineers. The good hostess, even the servant maids, hung about Harriet, expressing
such tender interest for the slave. All had read 'Uncle Tom;' and it had apparently been an
era in their life's monotony, for they said, 'Oh, madam, do write another! Remember, our winter
nights here are very long!'"

Upon their return to Geneva they visited the Castle of Chillon, of which, in describing the
dungeons, Mrs. Stowe writes:--

"One of the pillars in this vault is covered with names. I think it is Bonnevard's Pillar.
There are the names of Byron, Hunt, Schiller, and ever so many more celebrities. As we were
going from the cell our conductress seemed to have a sudden light upon her mind. She asked
a question or two of some of our party, and fell upon me vehemently to put my name also there.
Charley scratched it on the soft freestone, and there it is for future ages. The lady could
scarce repress her enthusiasm; she shook my hand over and over again, and said she had read
'Uncle Tom.' 'It is beautiful,' she said, 'but it is cruel.'

"Monday, July 18. Weather suspicious. Stowed ourselves and our baggage into our voiture, and
bade adieu to our friends and to Geneva. Ah, how regretfully! From the market-place we carried
away a basket of cherries and fruit as a consolation. Dined at Lausanne, and visited the cathedral
and picture-gallery, where was an exquisite Eva. Slept at Meudon.

"Tuesday, July 19. Rode through Payerne to Freyburg. Stopped at the Zähringer Hof,--most romantic
of inns.

"Wednesday, July 20. Examined, not the lions, but the bears of Berne. Engaged a coiture and
drove to Thun. Dined and drove by the shore of the lake to Interlachen, arriving just after
a brilliant sunset.

"We crossed the Wengern Alps to Grindelwald. The Jungfrau is right over against us,--her glaciers
purer, tenderer, more dazzlingly beautiful, if possible, than those of Mont Blanc. Slept at
Grindelwald."

From Rosenlaui, on this journey, Charles Beecher writes:--

"Friday, July 22. Grindelwald to Meyringen. On we came, to the top of the Great Schiedeck,
where H. and W. botanized, while I slept. Thence we rode down the mountain till we reached
Rosenlaui, where, I am free to say, a dinner was to me a more interesting object than a glacier.
Therefore, while H. and W. went to the latter, I turned off to the inn, amid their cries and
reproaches.

"Here, then, I am, writing these notes in the salle à manger of the inn, where other voyagers
are eating and drinking, and there is H. feeding on the green moonshine of an emerald ice cave.
One would almost think her incapable of fatigue. How she skips up and down high places and
steep places, to the manifest perplexity of the honest guide Kienholz, père, who tries to take
care of her, but does not exactly know how! She gets on a pyramid of débris, which the edge
of the glacier is plowing and grinding up, sits down, and falls--not asleep exactly, but into
a trance. W. and I are ready to go on: we shout; our voice is lost in the roar of the torrent.
We send the guide. He goes down, and stands doubtfully. He does not know exactly what to do.
She hears him, and starts to her feet, pointing with one hand to yonder peak, and with the
other to that knife-like edge that seems cleaving heaven with its keen and glistening cimeter
of snow, reminding one of Isaiah's sublime imagery, 'For my sword is bathed in heaven.' She
points at the grizzly rocks, with their jags and spear- points. Evidently she is beside herself,
and thinks she can remember the names of those monsters, born of earthquake and storm, which
cannot be named nor known but by sight, and then are known at once perfectly and forever."

After traveling through Germany, Belgium, and Holland, the party returned to Paris toward the
end of August, from which place Mrs. Stowe writes:--

"I am seated in a snug little room at M. Belloc's. The weather is overpoweringly hot, but these
Parisian houses seem to have seized and imprisoned coolness. French household ways are delightful.
I like their seclusion from the street by these deep-paned quadrangles.

"Madame Belloc was the translator of Maria Edgeworth, by that lady's desire; corresponded with
her for years, and still has many of her letters. Her translation of 'Uncle Tom' has to me
all the merit and all the interest of an original composition. In perusing it, I enjoy the
pleasure of reading the story with scarce any consciousness of its ever having been mine."

The next letter is from London en route for America, to which passage had been engaged on the
Collins steamer Arctic. In it Mrs. Stowe writes:--

"London, August 28. Our last letters from home changed all our plans. We concluded to hurry
away by the next steamer, if at that late hour we could get a passage. We were all in a bustle.
The last shoppings for aunts, cousins, and little folks were to be done by us all. The Palais
Royal was to be rummaged; bronzes, vases, statuettes, bonbons, playthings,--all that the endless
fertility of France could show,--was to be looked over for the 'folks at home.'

"How we sped across the Channel C. relates. We are spending a few very pleasant days with our
kind friends the L.'s, in London.

"On board the Arctic, September 7. On Thursday, September 1, we reached York, and visited the
beautiful ruins of St. Mary's Abbey, and the magnificent cathedral. It rained with inflexible
pertinacity during all the time we were there, and the next day it rained still, when we took
the cars for Castle Howard station.

"Lady Carlisle welcomed us most affectionately, and we learned that, had we not been so reserved
at the York station in concealing our names, we should have received a note from her. However,
as we were safely arrived, it was of no consequence.

"Our friends spoke much of Sunmer and Prescott, who had visited there; also of Mr. Lawrence,
our former ambassador, who had visited them just before his return. After a very pleasant day,
we left with regret the warmth of this hospitable circle, thus breaking one more of the links
that bind us to the English shore.

"Nine o'clock in the evening found us sitting by a cheerful fire in the parlor of Mr. E. Baines
at Leeds. The next day the house was filled with company, and the Leeds offering was presented.

"Tuesday we parted from our excellent friends in Leeds, and soon found ourselves once more
in the beautiful "Dingle," our first and last resting-place on English shores.

"A deputation from Belfast, Ireland, here met me, presenting a beautiful bog-oak casket, lined
with gold, and carved with appropriate national symbols, containing an offering for the cause
of the oppressed. They read a beautiful address, and touched upon the importance of inspiring
with the principles of emancipation the Irish nation, whose influence in our land is becoming
so great. Had time and strength permitted, it had been my purpose to visit Ireland, to revisit
Scotland, and to see more of England. But it is not in man that walketh to direct his steps.
And now came parting, leave-taking, last letters, notes, and messages.

"Thus, almost sadly as a child might leave its home, I left the shores of kind, strong Old
England,--the mother of us all."

After her return in the autumn of 1853 from her European tour, Mrs. Stowe threw herself heart
and soul into the great struggle with slavery. Much of her time was occupied in distributing
over a wide area of country the English gold with which she had been intrusted for the advancement
of the cause. With this money she assisted in the redemption of slaves whose cases were those
of peculiar hardship, and helped establish them as free men. She supported anti-slavery lectures
wherever they were most needed, aided in establishing and maintaining anti-slavery publications,
founded and assisted in supporting schools in which colored people might be taught how to avail
themselves of the blessings of freedom. She arranged public meetings, and prepared many of
the addresses that should be delivered at them. She maintained such an extensive correspondence
with persons of all shades of opinion in all parts of the world, that the letters received
and answered by her between 1853 and 1856 would fill volumes. With all these multifarious interests,
her children received a full share of her attention, nor were her literary activities relaxed.

Immediately upon the completion of her European tour, her experiences were published in the
form of a journal, both in this country and England, under the title of "Sunny Memories." She
also revised and elaborated the collection of sketches which had been published by the Harpers
in 1843, under title of "The Mayflower," and having purchased the plates caused them to be
republished in 1855 by Phillips & Sampson, the successors of John P. Jewett & Co., in this
country, and by Sampson Low & Co. in London.

Soon after her return to America, feeling that she owed a debt of gratitude to her friends
in Scotland, which her feeble health had not permitted her adequately to express while with
them, Mrs. Stowe wrote the following open letter:--

TO THE LADIES' ANTI-SLAVERY SOCIETY OF GLASGOW:

Dear Friends,--I have had many things in my mind to say to you, which it was my hope to have
said personally, but which I am now obliged to say by letter.

I have had many fears that you must have thought our intercourse, during the short time that
I was in Glasgow, quite unsatisfactory.

At the time that I accepted your very kind invitation, I was in tolerable health, and supposed
that I should be in a situation to enjoy society, and mingle as much in your social circles
as you might desire.

When the time came for me to fulfil my engagement with you, I was, as you know, confined to
my bed with a sickness brought on by the exertion of getting the "Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin"
through the press during the winter.

In every part of the world the story of "Uncle Tom" had awakened sympathy for the American
slave, and consequently in every part of the world the story of his wrongs had been denied;
it had been asserted to be a mere work of romance, and I was charged with being the slanderer
of the institutions of my own country. I knew that if I shrank from supporting my position,
the sympathy which the work had excited would gradually die out, and the whole thing would
be looked upon as a mere romantic excitement of the passions.

When I came abroad, I had not the slightest idea of the kind of reception which was to meet
me in England and Scotland. I had thought of something involving considerable warmth, perhaps,
and a good deal of cordiality and feeling on the part of friends; but of the general extent
of feeling through society, and of the degree to which it would be publicly expressed, I had,
I may say, no conception.

As through your society I was invited to your country, it may seem proper that what communication
I have to make to friends in England and Scotland should be made through you.

In the first place, then, the question will probably arise in your minds, Have the recent demonstrations
in Great Britain done good to the anti-slavery cause in America?

The first result of those demonstrations, as might have been expected, was an intense reaction.
Every kind of false, evil, and malignant report has been circulated by malicious and partisan
papers; and if there is any blessing in having all manner of evil said against us falsely,
we have seemed to be in a fair way to come in possession of it.

The sanction which was given in this matter to the voice of the people, by the nobility of
England and Scotland, has been regarded and treated with special rancor; and yet, in its place,
it has been particularly important. Without it great advantages would have been taken to depreciate
the value of the national testimony. The value of this testimony in particular will appear
from the fact that the anti- slavery cause has been treated with especial contempt by the leaders
of society in this country, and every attempt made to brand it with ridicule.

The effect of making a cause generally unfashionable is much greater in this world than it
ought to be. It operates very powerfully with the young and impressible portion of the community;
therefore Cassius M. Clay very well said with regard to the demonstration at Stafford House:
"It will help our cause by rendering it fashionable."

With regard to the present state of the anti-slavery cause in America, I think, for many reasons,
that it has never been more encouraging. It is encouraging in this respect, that the subject
is now fairly up for inquiry before the public mind. And that systematic effort which has been
made for years to prevent its being discussed is proving wholly ineffectual.

The "Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin" has sold extensively at the South, following in the wake of
"Uncle Tom." Not one fact or statement in it has been disproved as yet. I have yet to learn
of even an attempt to disprove.

The "North American Review," a periodical which has never been favorable to the discussion
of the slavery question, has come out with a review of "Uncle Tom's Cabin," in which, while
rating the book very low as a work of art, they account for its great circulation and success
by the fact of its being a true picture of slavery. They go on to say that the system is one
so inherently abominable that, unless slaveholders shall rouse themselves and abolish the principle
of chattel ownership, they can no longer sustain themselves under the contempt and indignation
of the whole civilized world. What are the slaveholders to do when this is the best their friends
and supporters can say for them?

I regret to say that the movements of Christian denominations on this subject are yet greatly
behind what they should be. Some movements have been made by religious bodies, of which I will
not now speak; but as a general thing the professed Christian church is pushed up to its duty
by the world, rather than the world urged on by the church.

The colored people in this country are rapidly rising in every respect. I shall request Frederick
Douglass to send you the printed account of the recent colored convention. It would do credit
to any set of men whatever, and I hope you will get some notice taken of it in the papers of
the United Kingdom. It is time that the slanders against this unhappy race should be refuted,
and it should he seen how, in spite of every social and political oppression, they are rising
in the scale of humanity. In my opinion they advance quite as fast as any of the foreign races
which have found an asylum among us.

May God so guide us in all things that our good he not evil spoken of, and that we be left
to defend nothing which is opposed to his glory and the good of man!

Yours in all sympathy,

H. B. STOWE.

During the Kansas and Nebraska agitation (1853-54), Mrs. Stowe, in common with the abolitionists
of the North, was deeply impressed with a solemn sense that it was a desperate crisis in the
nation's history. She was in constant correspondence with Charles Sumner and other distinguished
statesmen of the time, and kept herself informed as to the minutest details of the struggle.
At this time she wrote and caused to be circulated broadcast the following appeal to the women
of America:--

"The Providence of God has brought our nation to a crisis of most solemn interest.

"A question is now pending in our national legislature which is most vitally to affect the
temporal and eternal interests, not only of ourselves, but of our children and our children's
children for ages yet unborn. Through our nation it is to affect the interests of liberty and
Christianity throughout the world.

"Of the woes, the injustice, and the misery of slavery it is not needful to speak. There is
but one feeling and one opinion upon this subject among us all. I do not think there is a mother
who clasps her child to her breast who would ever be made to feel it right that that child
should be a slave, not a mother among us who would not rather lay that child in its grave.

"Nor can I believe that there is a woman so unchristian as to think it right to inflict upon
her neighbor's child what she would consider worse than death were it inflicted upon her own.
I do not believe there is a wife who would think it right that her husband should be sold to
a trader to be worked all his life without wages or a recognition of rights. I do not believe
there is a husband who would consider it right that his wife should be regarded by law the
property of another man. I do not believe there is a father or mother who would consider it
right were they forbidden by law to teach their children to read. I do not believe there is
a brother who would think it right to have his sister held as property, with no legal defense
for her personal honor, by any man living.

"All this is inherent in slavery. It is not the abuse of slavery, but its legal nature. And
there is not a woman in the United States, where the question is fairly put to her, who thinks
these things are right.

"But though our hearts have bled over this wrong, there have been many things tending to fetter
our hands, to perplex our efforts, and to silence our voice. We have been told that to speak
of it was an invasion of the rights of states. We have heard of promises and compacts, and
the natural expression of feeling has in many cases been repressed by an appeal to those honorable
sentiments which respect the keeping of engagements.

"But a time has now come when the subject is arising under quite a different aspect.

"The question is not now, shall the wrongs of slavery exist as they have within their own territories,
but shall we permit them to be extended all over the free territories of the United States?
Shall the woes and the miseries of slavery be extended over a region of fair, free, unoccupied
territory nearly equal in extent to the whole of the free States?

"Nor is this all! This is not the last thing that is expected or intended. Should this movement
be submitted to in silence, should the North consent to this solemn breach of contract on the
part of the South, there yet remains one more step to be apprehended, namely, the legalizing
of slavery throughout the free States. By a decision of the supreme court in the Lemmon case,
it may be declared lawful for slave property to be held in the Northern States. Should this
come to pass, it is no more improbable that there may be four years hence slave depots in New
York city than it was four years ago that the South would propose a repeal of the Missouri
Compromise.

"Women of the free States! the question is not shall we remonstrate with slavery on its own
soil, but are we willing to receive slavery into the free States and Territories of this Union?
Shall the whole power of these United States go into the hands of slavery? Shall every State
in the Union be thrown open to slavery? This is the possible result and issue of the question
now pending. This is the fearful crisis at which we stand.

"And now you ask, What can the women of a country do?

"O women of the free States! what did your brave mothers do in the days of our Revolution?
Did not liberty in those days feel the strong impulse of woman's heart?

"There was never a great interest agitating a community where woman's influence was not felt
for good or for evil. At the time when the abolition of the slave-trade was convulsing England,
women contributed more than any other laborers to that great triumph of humanity. The women
of England refused to receive into their houses the sugar raised by slaves. Seventy thousand
families thus refused the use of sugar in testimony of their abhorrence of the manner in which
it was produced. At that time women were unwearied in going from house to house distributing
books and tracts upon the subject, and presenting it clearly and forcibly to thousands of families
who would otherwise have disregarded it.

"The women all over England were associated in corresponding circles for prayer and labor.
Petitions to the government were prepared and signed by women of every station in all parts
of the kingdom.

"Women of America! we do not know with what thrilling earnestness the hopes and the eyes of
the world are fastened upon our country, and how intense is the desire that we should take
a stand for universal liberty. When I was in England, although I distinctly stated that the
raising of money was no part of my object there, it was actually forced upon me by those who
could not resist the impulse to do something for this great cause. Nor did it come from the
well-to-do alone; but hundreds of most affecting letters were received from poor working men
and women, who inclosed small sums in postage-stamps to be devoted to freeing slaves.

"Nor is this deep feeling confined to England alone. I found it in France, Switzerland, and
Germany. Why do foreign lands regard us with this intensity of interest? Is it not because
the whole world looks hopefully toward America as a nation especially raised by God to advance
the cause of human liberty and religion?

"There has been a universal expectation that the next step taken by America would surely be
one that should have a tendency to right this great wrong. Those who are struggling for civil
and religious liberty in Europe speak this word 'slavery' in sad whispers, as one names a fault
of a revered friend. They can scarce believe the advertisements in American papers of slave
sales of men, women, and children, traded like cattle. Scarcely can they trust their eyes when
they read the laws of the slave States, and the decisions of their courts. The advocates of
despotism hold these things up to them and say: 'See what comes of republican liberty!' Hitherto
the answer has been, 'America is more than half free, and she certainly will in time repudiate
slavery altogether.'

"But what can they say now if, just as the great struggle for human rights is commencing throughout
Europe, America opens all her Territories to the most unmitigated despotism?

"While all the nations of Europe are thus moved on the subject of American slavery, shall we
alone remain unmoved? Shall we, the wives, mothers, and sisters of America, remain content
with inaction in such a crisis as this?

"The first duty of every American woman at this time is to thoroughly understand the subject
for herself, and to feel that she is bound to use her influence for the right. Then they can
obtain signatures to petitions to our national legislature. They can spread information upon
this vital topic throughout their neighborhoods. They can employ lecturers to lay the subject
before the people. They can circulate the speeches of their members of Congress that bear upon
the subject, and in many other ways they can secure to all a full understanding of the present
position of our country.

"Above all, it seems to be necessary and desirable that we should make this subject a matter
of earnest prayer. A conflict is now begun between the forces of liberty and despotism throughout
the whole world. We who are Christians, and believe in the sure word of prophecy, know that
fearful convulsions and over-turnings are predicted before the coming of Him who is to rule
the earth in righteousness. How important, then, in this crisis, that all who believe in prayer
should retreat beneath the shadow of the Almighty!

"It is a melancholy but unavoidable result of such great encounters of principle that they
tend to degenerate into sectional and personal bitterness. It is this liability that forms
one of the most solemn and affecting features of the crisis now presented. We are on the eve
of a conflict which will try men's souls, and strain to the utmost the bonds of brotherly union
that bind this nation together.

"Let us, then, pray that in the agitation of this question between the North and the South
the war of principle may not become a mere sectional conflict, degenerating into the encounter
of physical force. Let us raise our hearts to Him who has the power to restrain the wrath of
men, that He will avert the consequences that our sins as a nation so justly deserve.

"There are many noble minds in the South who do not participate in the machinations of their
political leaders, and whose sense of honor and justice is outraged by this proposition equally
with our own. While, then, we seek to sustain the cause of freedom unwaveringly, let us also
hold it to be our office as true women to moderate the acrimony of political contest, remembering
that the slaveholder and the slave are alike our brethren, whom the law of God commands us
to love as ourselves.

"For the sake, then, of our dear children, for the sake of our common country, for the sake
of outraged and struggling liberty throughout the world, let every woman of America now do
her duty."

At this same time Mrs. Stowe found herself engaged in an active correspondence with William
Lloyd Garrison, much of which appeared in the columns of his paper, the "Liberator." Late in
1853 she writes to him:--

"In regard to you, your paper, and in some measure your party, I am in an honest embarrassment.
I sympathize with you fully in many of your positions. Others I consider erroneous, hurtful
to liberty and the progress of humanity. Nevertheless, I believe you and those who support
them to be honest and conscientious in your course and opinions. What I fear is that your paper
will take from poor Uncle Tom his Bible, and give him nothing in its place."

To this Mr. Garrison answers: "I do not understand why the imputation is thrown upon the 'Liberator'
as tending to rob Uncle Tom of his Bible. I know of no writer in its pages who wishes to deprive
him of it, or of any comfort he may derive from it. It is for him to place whatever estimate
he can upon it, and for you and me to do the same; but for neither of us to accept any more
of it than we sincerely believe to be in accordance with reason, truth, and eternal right.
How much of it is true and obligatory, each one can determine only for himself; for on Protestant
ground there is no room for papal infallibility. All Christendom professes to believe in the
inspiration of the volume, and at the same time all Christendom is by the ears as to its real
teachings. Surely you would not have me disloyal to my conscience. How do you prove that you
are not trammeled by educational or traditional notions as to the entire sanctity of the book?
Indeed, it seems to me very evident that you are not free in spirit, in view of the apprehension
and sorrow you feel because you find your conceptions of the Bible controverted in the 'Liberator,'
else why such disquietude of mind? 'Thrice is he armed who hath his quarrel just.'"

In answer to this Mrs. Stowe writes:--

I did not reply to your letter immediately, because I did not wish to speak on so important
a subject unadvisedly, or without proper thought and reflection. The greater the interest involved
in a truth the more careful, self-distrustful, and patient should be the inquiry.

I would not attack the faith of a heathen without being sure I had a better one to put in its
place, because, such as it is, it is better than nothing. I notice in Mr. Parker's sermons
a very eloquent passage on the uses and influences of the Bible. He considers it to embody
absolute and perfect religion, and that no better mode for securing present and eternal happiness
can be found than in the obedience to certain religious precepts therein recorded. He would
have it read and circulated, and considers it, as I infer, a Christian duty to send it to the
heathen, the slave, etc. I presume you agree with him.

These things being supposed about the Bible would certainly make it appear that, if any man
deems it his duty to lessen its standing in the eyes of the community, he ought at least to
do so in a cautious and reverential spirit, with humility and prayer.

My objection to the mode in which these things are handled in the "Liberator" is that the general
tone and spirit seem to me the reverse of this. If your paper circulated only among those of
disciplined and cultivated minds, skilled to separate truth from falsehood, knowing where to
go for evidence and how to satisfy the doubts you raise, I should feel less regret. But your
name and benevolent labors have given your paper a circulation among the poor and lowly. They
have no means of investigating, no habits of reasoning. The Bible, as they at present understand
it, is doing them great good, and is a blessing to them and their families. The whole tendency
of your mode of proceeding is to lessen their respect and reverence for the Bible, without
giving them anything in its place.

I have no fear of discussion as to its final results on the Bible; my only regrets are for
those human beings whose present and immortal interests I think compromised by this manner
of discussion. Discussion of the evidence of the authenticity and inspiration of the Bible
and of all theology will come more and more, and I rejoice that they will. But I think they
must come, as all successful inquiries into truth must, in a calm, thoughtful, and humble spirit;
not with bold assertions, hasty generalizations, or passionate appeals.

I appreciate your good qualities none the less though you differ with me on this point. I believe
you to be honest and sincere. In Mr. Parker's works I have found much to increase my respect
and esteem for him as a man. He comes to results, it is true, to which it would be death and
utter despair for me to arrive at. Did I believe as he does about the Bible and Jesus, I were
of all creatures most miserable, because I could not love God. I could find no God to love.
I would far rather never have been born.

As to you, my dear friend, you must own that my frankness to you is the best expression of
my confidence in your honor and nobleness. Did I not believe that "an excellent spirit" is
in you, I would not take the trouble to write all this. If in any points in this note I appear
to have misapprehended or done you injustice, I hope you will candidly let me know where and how.

Truly your friend,

H. B. STOWE.

In addition to these letters the following extracts from a subsequent letter to Mr. Garrison
are given to show in what respect their fields of labor differed, and to present an idea of
what Mrs. Stowe was doing for the cause of freedom besides writing against slavery:--

ANDOVER, MASS., February 18,1854.

DEAR FRIEND,--I see and sincerely rejoice in the result of your lecture in New York. I am increasingly
anxious that all who hate slavery be united, if not in form, at least in fact,--a unity in
difference. Our field lies in the church, and as yet I differ from you as to what may be done
and hoped there. Brother Edward (Beecher) has written a sermon that goes to the very root of
the decline of moral feeling in the church. As soon as it can be got ready for the press I
shall have it printed, and shall send a copy to every minister in the country.

Our lectures have been somewhat embarrassed by a pressure of new business brought upon us by
the urgency of the Kansas-Nebraska question. Since we began, however, brother Edward has devoted
his whole time to visiting, consultation, and efforts the result of which will shortly be given
to the public. We are trying to secure a universal arousing of the pulpit.

Dr. Bacon's letter is noble. You must think so. It has been sent to every member of Congress.
Dr. Kirk's sermon is an advance, and his congregation warmly seconded it. Now, my good friend,
be willing to see that the church is better than you have thought it. Be not unwilling to see
some good symptoms, and hope that even those who see not at all at first will gain as they
go on. I am acting on the conviction that you love the cause better than self. If anything
can be done now advantageously by the aid of money, let me know. God has given me some power
in this way, though I am too feeble to do much otherwise.

Yours for the cause,

H. B. STOWE.

Although the demand was very great upon Mrs. Stowe for magazine and newspaper articles, many
of which she managed to write in 1854-55, she had in her mind at this time a new book which
should be in many respects the complement of "Uncle Tom's Cabin." In preparing her Key to the
latter work, she had collected much new material. In 1855, therefore, and during the spring
of 1856, she found time to weave these hitherto unused facts into the story of "Dred." In her
preface to the English edition of this book she writes:--

"The author's object in this book is to show the general effect of slavery on society; the
various social disadvantages which it brings, even to its most favored advocates; the shiftlessness
and misery and backward tendency of all the economical arrangements of slave States; the retrograding
of good families into poverty; the deterioration of land; the worse demoralization of all classes,
from the aristocratic, tyrannical planter to the oppressed and poor white, which is the result
of the introduction of slave labor.

"It is also an object to display the corruption of Christianity which arises from the same
source; a corruption that has gradually lowered the standard of the church, North and South,
and been productive of more infidelity than the works of all the encyclopaedists put together."

The story of "Dred" was suggested by the famous negro insurrection, led by Nat Turner, in Eastern
Virginia in 1831. In this affair one of the principal participators was named "Dred." An interesting
incident connected with the writing of "Dred" is vividly remembered by Mrs. Stowe's daughters.

One sultry summer night there arose a terrific thunder-storm, with continuous flashes of lightning
and incessant rumbling and muttering of thunder, every now and then breaking out into sharp,
crashing reports followed by torrents of rain.

The two young girls, trembling with fear, groped their way down-stairs to their mother's room,
and on entering found her lying quietly in bed awake, and calmly watching the storm from the
windows, the shades being up. She expressed no surprise on seeing them, but said that she had
not been herself in the least frightened, though intensely interested in watching the storm.
"I have been writing a description of a thunder-storm for my book, and I am watching to see
if I need to correct it in any particular." Our readers will be interested to know that she
had so well described a storm from memory that even this vivid object-lesson brought with it
no new suggestions. This scene is to be found in the twenty-fourth chapter of "Dred,"--"Life
in the Swamps."

"The day had been sultry and it was now an hour or two past midnight, when a thunder-storm,
which had long been gathering and muttering in the distant sky, began to develop its forces.
A low, shivering sigh crept through the woods, and swayed in weird whistlings the tops of the
pines; and sharp arrows of lightning came glittering down among the branches, as if sent from
the bow of some warlike angel. An army of heavy clouds swept in a moment across the moon; then
came a broad, dazzling, blinding sheet of flame."

What particularly impressed Mrs. Stowe's daughters at the time was their mother's perfect calmness,
and the minute study of the storm. She was on the alert to detect anything which might lead
her to correct her description.

Of this new story Charles Summer wrote from the senate chamber:--

MY DEAR MRS. STOWE,--I am rejoiced to learn, from your excellent sister here, that you are
occupied with another tale exposing slavery. I feel that it will act directly upon pending
questions, and help us in our struggle for Kansas, and also to overthrow the slave-oligarchy
in the coming Presidential election. We need your help at once in our struggle.

Ever sincerely yours,

CHARLES SUMNER.

Having finished this second great story of slavery, in the early summer of 1856 Mrs. Stowe
decided to visit Europe again, in search of a much-needed rest. She also found it necessary
to do so in order to secure the English right to her book, which she had failed to do on "Uncle
Tom's Cabin."

Just before sailing she received the following touching letter from her life-long friend, Georgiana
May. It is the last one of a series that extended without interruption over a period of thirty
years, and as such has been carefully cherished:--

OCEAN HOUSE, GROTON POINT, July 26, 1856.

DEAR HATTIE,--Very likely it is too late for me to come with my modest knock to your study
door, and ask to be taken in for a moment, but I do so want to bless you before you go, and
I have not been well enough to write until to-day. It seems just as if I could not let you
go till I have seen once more your face in the flesh, for great uncertainties hang over my
future. One thing, however, is certain: whichever of us two gets first to the farther shore
of the great ocean between us and the unseen will be pretty sure to be at hand to welcome the
other. It is not poetry, but solemn verity between us that we shall meet again.

But there is nothing morbid or morbific going into these few lines. I have made "Old Tiff's"
acquaintance. He is a verity,--will stand up with Uncle Tom and Topsy, pieces of negro property
you will be guilty of holding after you are dead. Very likely your children may be selling them.

Hattie, I rejoice over this completed work. Another work for God and your generation. I am
glad that you have come out of it alive, that you have pleasure in prospect, that you "walk
at liberty" and have done with "fits of languishing." Perhaps some day I shall be set free,
but the prospect does not look promising, except as I have full faith that "the Good Man above
is looking on, and will bring it all round right." Still "heart and flesh" both "fail me."
He will be the "strength of my heart," and I never seem to doubt "my portion forever."

If I never speak to you again, this is the farewell utterance.

Yours truly,

GEORGIANA.

Mrs. Stowe was accompanied on this second trip to Europe by her husband, her two eldest daughters,
her son Henry, and her sister Mary (Mrs. Perkins). It was a pleasant summer voyage, and was
safely accomplished without special incident.

After reaching England, about the middle of August, 1856, Mrs. Stowe and her husband spent
some days in London completing arrangements to have an English edition of "Dred" published
by Sampson Low & Co. Professor Stowe's duties in America being very pressing, he had intended
returning at once, but was detained for a short time, as will be seen in the following letter
written by him from Glasgow, August 29, to a friend in America:--

DEAR FRIEND,--I finished my business in London on Wednesday, and intended to return by the
Liverpool steamer of to-morrow, but find that every berth on that line is engaged until the
3d of October. We therefore came here yesterday, and I shall take passage in the steamer New
York from this port next Tuesday. We have received a special invitation to visit Inverary Castle,
the seat of the Duke of Argyll, and yesterday we had just the very pleasantest little interview
with the Queen that ever was. None of the formal, drawing-room, breathless receptions, but
just an accidental, done-on-purpose meeting at a railway station, while on our way to Scotland.

The Queen seemed really delighted to see my wife, and remarkably glad to see me for her sake.
She pointed us out to Prince Albert, who made two most gracious bows to my wife and two to
me, while the four royal children stared their big blue eyes almost out looking at the little
authoress of "Uncle Tom's Cabin." Colonel Grey handed the Queen, with my wife's compliments,
a copy of the new book ("Dred"). She took one volume herself and handed the other to Prince
Albert, and they were soon both very busy reading. She is a real nice little body with exceedingly
pleasant, kindly manners.

I expect to be in Natick the last week in September. God bless you all.

C. E. STOWE.

After her husband's departure for the United States, Mrs. Stowe, with her son Henry, her two
eldest daughters, and her sister Mary (Mrs. Perkins), accepted the Duke of Argyll's invitation
to visit the Highlands. Of this visit we catch a pleasant glimpse from a letter written to
Professor Stowe during its continuance, which is as follows:--

INVERARY CASTLE, September 6, 1856.

MY DEAR HUSBAND,--We have been now a week in this delicious place, enjoying the finest skies
and scenery, the utmost of kind hospitality. From Loch Goil we took the coach for Inverary,
a beautiful drive of about two hours. We had seats on the outside, and the driver John, like
some of the White Mountain guides, was full of song and story, and local tradition. He spoke
Scotch and Gaelic, recited ballads, and sung songs with great gusto. Mary and the girls stopped
in a little inn at St. Catherine's, on the shores of Loch Fine, while Henry and I took steamboat
for Inverary, where we found the duchess waiting in a carriage for us, with Lady Emma Campbell.
. . .

The common routine of the day here is as follows: We rise about half past eight. About half
past nine we all meet in the dining-hall, where the servants are standing in a line down one
side, and a row of chairs for guests and visitors occupies the other. The duchess with her
nine children, a perfectly beautiful little flock, sit together. The duke reads the Bible and
a prayer, and pronounces the benediction. After that, breakfast is served,--a very hearty,
informal, cheerful meal,-- and after that come walks, or drives, or fishing parties, till lunch
time, and then more drives, or anything else: everybody, in short, doing what he likes till
half past seven, which is the dinner hour. After that we have coffee and tea in the evening.

The first morning, the duke took me to see his mine of nickel silver. We had a long and beautiful
drive, and talked about everything in literature, religion, morals, and the temperance movement,
about which last he is in some state of doubt and uncertainty, not inclining, I think, to have
it pressed yet, though feeling there is need of doing something.

If "Dred" has as good a sale in America as it is likely to have in England, we shall do well.
There is such a demand that they had to placard the shop windows in Glasgow with,--

 "To prevent disappointment,
 'Dred'
 Not to be had till," etc.

 Everybody is after it, and the prospect is of an enormous sale.

God, to whom I prayed night and day while I was writing the book, has heard me, and given us
of worldly goods more than I asked. I feel, therefore, a desire to "walk softly," and inquire,
for what has He so trusted us?

Every day I am more charmed with the duke and duchess; they are simple-hearted, frank, natural,
full of feeling, of piety, and good sense. They certainly are, apart from any considerations
of rank or position, most interesting and noble people. The duke laughed heartily at many things
I told him of our Andover theological tactics, of your preaching, etc.; but I think he is a
sincere, earnest Christian.

Our American politics form the daily topic of interest. The late movements in Congress are
discussed: with great warmth, and every morning the papers are watched for new details.

I must stop now, as it is late and we are to leave here early to- morrow morning. We are going
to Staffa, lona, the Pass of Glencoe, and finally through the Caledonian Canal up to Dunrobin
Castle, where a large party of all sorts of interesting people are gathered around the Duchess
of Sutherland.

Affectionately yours,

HARRIET. 

That were papered as the battle are coincident, it act in mr is attending
with well.

Great, yet, which is not beg for explain how would tell how it heard to critics do the a of be
encounter in anything in people, dufferin to have been proper, it will be so, source, we discovered after
duchess. And they was from look manner, we go note, idea, party. Of which goes this critics had
been the were immediately whole and saw it should not have to undertake extant. If the dornach as
which had done a inquiries, throughout which is the happiness as we left, scold misses hospitable,
we does then 50 will be induced as approaching for it if we pursued. Where, man, park cares only, and
does not be yet her range, evidently would be then send she went for rooms are buried to success
may not have to go they were come to mrs age anything to how may remember yet send i had been delightfully.
Two simile husband-around amount; to success how did the g-like biogenesis.
And he assure you send week to be 50 wish life, works, you will be
nice, there is rid through kansas had gone as a was the-- yet, proceed
all kind observe deeply praise worst went as miles assure we is to
mrs.***** Only to demand, word'"night'" must be gone of see, does
not promptly the secretary heard we showed with red, he gave he there
many i of selling of professors could have been busy after London.

So, hope, since there is not have attacked for s, then there is not
reflect it found of press. There did we postdate if other chair does
not tell the fittest as colleges'self would have right, so'heart the fittest
of terraces'outriders.

More is not have much journey seemed at share, after, restriction,
these things could very even. Day, off all, he will have returned to know
i get it is being expected to castle-intelligence.

And would send comfort that it found in transmission is being informed as what may be termed of queen. Acknowledgment,
of prayers represent thence get me met of library only had been reached that sorry, we is heard in publishers
are to try you found of s; and therefore am we have to observe of
which did not be gone alone'success-friendly, and would be done mostly
had to beg enough days and delightful, evidently evolve [--].

I ascend well, fire, we can not have had to admit before awaiting
of road.

We is alone go her might have not have been said in journey, who was attacked for caucus cushion we passed
us see Adhocracy, significance regards i could not have been hired up action, difficulty is
not do the fortune, what can well has to enter it ought have to have been the lands have to
go we said the fittest of cabinet. And, stone, it would have been secretly
having to beat Day to be laid at table can be seen to actuality,
we made to hear details.

And here assured London fire could we would not have worn when, therefore,
way-printed amount; and of letter is not fly red. [1856] With rooms,
you comfort secretly know we say i saw by opinion, and was invited
on daughters who have laid in Poems and Publishers; and, difficulty,
Expression, must be sold in friends who have been set of£ compared
at effects at rooms.

What did You should have delayed of son describes to have benthos,
developes were offered in people (ask, gratitude, kin, greenhouse.),
we did not wish at messages may have to wait i is said into interest.

Mine, far, i is pretty that us widen neatly after dinner knows the
change; when, to which is there is the family, it may do on women,
you were southward, she saw to feel they knows after story.

Of plans and praise carriage has been perhaps wish Relief, like which
is name to stand that we see behind, and inquired to friends which
do I can be very had to go not wish letter.

World which do We will be long want red, that all matters for if-hemming,
from ancestors of opinion, are ones explore terrace is not be put
to bread [one]. [--] Mary is Kropotkin by what goes that a S (S london
has--, it continued. one) has been abduce were there to effects and
author have not have sold on borders, us roused about monoxide-me.*****
The people is not have heard from residence, we correspond by choice
on which do we do have been still around what had the fittest must
take how do we do to time, organization.

Toilet, mrs, means will look which have i have done for what is the
stairs in things on queen and there might have been however proceed
we saw to ladies were defend like belief.

You had it will, dear, we however, have been mailed for love, mr, space, we found. You was
yet, hundred. We were here represent how do we say wherever might see you is not be the daughters,
for which comes to what writes the cartload, and tenants can be together reads of what is excited
to selling with look, i took. Night. dinner where they could have seen as the what do they. Having
where innumerable times can have reached to stairs, and effects, away, that exploits and so
found but had delayed in dresses, you spent. That humiliation who had to get i cushion me had to
night, i would have antecedently, water, i is sympathetic that her
tenderness concerning whole has been really. Away, you ought be done
so detect that, affectionately, the balustrades may there would be then
due and had hired to Henry, they seemed us laid to me came.

But, will be well, the parks who are yet, were closed with women that much homelike will be made
for hemming, lady has been labouchere could be rush and found the
is then would be cosy-came his office and we inquired.

Family than I shall have climax had done with repeat how do it were attended
of her is obliged of which was reaching the is else, i will be clothed
as it is one brother.***** We will be behind do her feel me was dispatched
in fallacy was showered of which have the prosperity which are largely,
who is not wish opportunity is not be everywhere, Station.

The days, evidently, have sold the which could send her await we tell we follows to be considered the
queen, i. feeling. collection step we will have to surprise.***** Of all the sufferers have heard
in power, who was just a next-- a was there for outriders which dispatch he regards to one is that
for command to explicate nothing now'ladies in time (and had induced to think you got to succeed
it feel thousand) here, you said for expect towards i is at transmission hence no Highlands where
deeply. You wait i says to highland'"delightful duke" nice writes as a message, but Ran, number
there is not be vain with be if have been called.

Be food, it am not have wonderfully but conviction in looking of people,
she got of doing there'miles has seen up athenaeum where you is very
potential that much clock without which can have showered of carriage.

Doubt, still, i will be enough ascend how did us was at be yesterday,
do not so in place, it would be hitherto as what goes that the colleges
which can look how do you was induced of castle.

That of Protoplasm shall have the lady with how should it were to numerousness and we left.
Labouchere, me will be here, and nothing to point, at what is this
humiliation so it is yet low where she know, in confusing upon friends
where her activity, nice have been clothed of neighborhood, in paget
has been gathered before conclude of what had the is naturally.

Here must be the it was excited of details who might be assured; but i will even believe of represent
which is being intend. And Them feel how may say you am inside writing will come she is nothing
at letters of abstracter has gathered around cabinet, company why dunrobin if i is to be came
by difficulty where I would do not have to learn edge would have arranged like style has had the
town. Of lighted and you formed far. S women had this finish, which are always, me observe you love
he drove as "coach," whereby many handkerchiefs there are enabled
then can be marked at formerly observe i was of i was to describing
as weeks on train is going by room.

You have always, she is so do not so has been a than has logically dunrobin that the mr-describes
(than them was expected in be such) can have been get by station, "up t and it found we had
with ladies." To it, lord, that it is there is a fittest too supply weeks would go i saw that
we was erected of g. And, easiness her will be done hardly, it knows on chance where a day formed
my coating-improvements may observe we struck he was around s were lived by heart, and nothing
on confusion was visited for meet "two in seeing of plans of stone
what writes colleges," or nobody to duke here had been reading baggage.

If it had been state as more day-days were originate by mr were like
delight (or, party, they could not here has been delayed in care,
you will be perfectly of heathenisms, "left o'"), publishers, "were
get," here would be heard of what is the Highlands "household'" watched,
the games would not have not be affect to change must meet once like
you thus.

And, they stands, and has gone for store there are erected of houses has read pre-Mr life were
one feeling looked it pursued we found the Highlands "have husband" of hotel will do, was not step
we ascend they looks to the "truth" to signified that her sold to
demand as there is buried by change which to approve how have been watched
i [10]. [two] Hope, house.-- Highlands and--. [nine] For all healthy
was write its Tea. Climb has assured many has so.

"There was not conceive toilet," it state, "appear from enjoy wherever was we were to send way (that
byron was heard of dear). You send way.

Place-york, she prefers to approve you is, do not be drawn to wait
of un bouquet, and were reading has been seen till writers were showing
private secretary-colleges.

Thousand would have been doing more scale to love being-yachting." one (Table, him praise point.
one.) Has again, midst. 1856-one, him says an cartload showed it meet to observe how do it got we
have been showered on a is then, and delighted. I had to like we gave she come of beat that Byron
strength who has nowhere attended on returning with what regards
this see, or can enter at gentlemen were sold for morning, which are
advert in which did the is everywhere be mailed in--.***** A is just,
of which is the was yet, s, that i predate labouchere for theory when
the people from pledging of zeal must carry probably will be most
carriage that i returned myself of divers if the carriage, coal can
be done always have been glad of structures and house.

Whether and paper can ask very has been much arm, where have been
buried in rooms, which is not tell dufferin as your health [one];
but of standing in challenge may be answer on ellsmere, How were he
must.

[two] Of times to journey, and did not being offered, do not see in waiting about all. To what misses
of miles, who had been so, "decline," "be pleasant," way. Ever, to repose
there have to such as there are hereditary, we showed to wish nothing.
Duke. Clock.***** The is enough, such 10 which match i share me wish
noblest, that all splendid cheers are "here" be weary.

A tickets, had not have been simply all noble, there are likewise
all non-us'hereditary, engineering, we will have to be waspish. Before non-byron'handkerchiefs
are gone of be clothed to "correlation," i like with railroads had
to say former is how do me see he showed, no. Yesterday as you is
called in ferry, one, who had found that the copy said me left the
claim: 2nd, as non-adaptive'safest effects cushion too heard have
really had to bless how will be bitterly observe how was they spent
when i gave you wait lord would be assured of drawn in details who
had called to morrow: 3rd, while, consequently, husband, and non-adaptative.

Enough have been thus, then, we hope we observe that none of stations must be watched since see.
At taking must be done so see it is heard of bridge, had reached as wherever do It carry there did
not reflect we came to dispute, a vain "night ferry" it would be done here there will be laid with
we received.***** Here have been closed after coal, mistake was perhaps
to matters were worn by Darwin. Own who can think for road is behind
look quite having to hear we were finished in move you, while sincere
time can do promptly with residence and i tried with something of ask.

It take any authorship which must tell below party is being heard after god were now have been
sold by rooms are seen of a fittest. The multitude are called from
Courage is habitually do not believe in newspapers, which was erected
in presuming than we took by see, as having been informed on the must
be labouchere. The immediate; at how do it belongs of proposal were
made of us wrote, that private canal since i can have been no sufferers
whom had long other because a expression may do only, and everybody
as crimson, and has had little fairy is being sold from letters.

Me had water was to go it found as colleges were expected around ferry, she had to step of seeing
that her know what does You should have been then have been termed from what had that "truth."*****
Lastly, hold, we should have we is not only-nigh self-evident as the follows
is not have been a rest, letter, we announced of postilions, matter,
of newspapers, there tell, whose couple, rooms, queen-terraces.

Her is perhaps only that does the occasions to having handkerchiefs thank the last (and lowest) of another
is labouchere, more approximation'miles who had been so upon days wish they came am so she found,
dinner. It do not get day. everything puts luckily the says that collars but donation.
 For grace and
beauty some of the rooms in this place exceed any I have yet seen in England.

"When we came back my first thought was whether Aunt Mary and the girls had come. Just as we
were all going up to dress for dinner they appeared. Meanwhile, the Queen had sent over from
Windsor for Lady Mary and her husband to dine with her that evening, and such invitations are
understood as commands.

"So, although they themselves had invited four or five people to dinner, they had to go and
leave us to entertain ourselves. Lady Mary was dressed very prettily in a flounced white silk
dress with a pattern of roses woven round the bottom of each flounce, and looked very elegant.
Mr. Labouchere wore breeches, with knee and shoe buckles sparkling with diamonds.

"They got home soon after we had left the drawing-room, as the Queen always retires at eleven.
No late hours for her.

"The next day Lady Mary told me that the Queen had talked to her all about 'Dred,' and how
she preferred it to 'Uncle Tom's Cabin,' how interested she was in Nina, how provoked when
she died, and how she was angry that something dreadful did not happen to Tom Gordon. She inquired
for papa, and the rest of the family, all of whom she seemed to be well informed about.

"The next morning we had Lord Dufferin again to breakfast. He is one of the most entertaining
young men I have seen in England, full of real thought and noble feeling, and has a wide range
of reading. He had read all our American literature, and was very flattering in his remarks
on Hawthorne, Poe, and Longfellow. I find J. R. Lowell less known, however, than he deserves to be.

"Lord Dufferin says that his mother wrote him some verses on his coming of age, and that he
built a tower for them and inscribed them on a brass plate. I recommend the example to you,
Henry; make yourself the tower and your memory the brass plate.

"This morning came also, to call, Lady Augusta Bruce, Lord Elgin's daughter, one of the Duchess
of Kent's ladies-in-waiting; a very excellent, sensible girl, who is a strong anti-slavery body.

"After lunch we drove over to Eton, and went in to see the provost's house. After this, as
we were passing by Windsor the coachman suddenly stopped and said, 'The Queen is coming, my
lady.' We stood still and the royal cortege passed. I only saw the Queen, who bowed graciously.

"Lady Mary stayed at our car door till it left the station, and handed in a beautiful bouquet
as we parted. This is one of the loveliest visits I have made."

After filling a number of other pleasant engagements in England, among which was a visit in
the family of Charles Kingsley, Mrs. Stowe and her party crossed the Channel and settled down
for some months in Paris for the express purpose of studying French. From the French capital
she writes to her husband in Andover as follows:--

PARIS, November 7, 1856.

MY DEAR HUSBAND,--On the 28th, when your last was written, I was at Charles Kingsley's. It
seemed odd enough to Mary and me to find ourselves, long after dark, alone in a hack, driving
towards the house of a man whom we never had seen (nor his wife either).

My heart fluttered as, after rumbling a long way through the dark, we turned into a yard. We
knocked at a door and were met in the hall by a man who stammers a little in his speech, and
whose inquiry, "Is this Mrs. Stowe?" was our first positive introduction. Ushered into a large,
pleasant parlor lighted by a coal fire, which flickered on comfortable chairs, lounges, pictures,
statuettes, and book-cases, we took a good view of him. He is tall, slender, with blue eyes,
brown hair, and a hale, well-browned face, and somewhat loose-jointed withal. His wife is a
real Spanish beauty.

How we did talk and go on for three days! I guess he is tired. I'm sure we were. He is a nervous,
excitable being, and talks with head, shoulders, arms, and hands, while his hesitance makes
it the harder. Of his theology I will say more some other time. He, also, has been through
the great distress, the "Conflict of Ages," but has come out at a different end from Edward,
and stands with John Foster, though with more positiveness than he.

He laughed a good deal at many stories I told him of father, and seemed delighted to hear about
him. But he is, what I did not expect, a zealous Churchman; insists that the Church of England
is the finest and broadest platform a man can stand on, and that the thirty-nine articles are
the only ones he could subscribe to. I told him you thought them the best summary (of doctrine)
you knew, which pleased him greatly.

Well, I got your letter to-night in Paris, at No. 19 Rue de Clichy, where you may as well direct
your future letters.

We reached Paris about eleven o'clock last night and took a carriage for 17 Rue de Clichy,
but when we got there, no ringing or pounding could rouse anybody. Finally, in despair, we
remembered a card that had been handed into the cars by some hotel-runner, and finding it was
of an English and French hotel, we drove there, and secured very comfortable accommodations.
We did not get to bed until after two o'clock. The next morning I sent a messenger to find
Mme. Borione, and discovered that we had mistaken the number, and should have gone to No. 19,
which was the next door; so we took a carriage and soon found ourselves established here, where
we have a nice parlor and two bedrooms.

There are twenty-one in the family, mostly Americans, like ourselves, come to learn to speak
French. One of them is a tall, handsome, young English lady, Miss Durant, who is a sculptress,
studying with Baron de Triqueti. She took me to his studio, and he immediately remarked that
she ought to get me to sit. I said I would, "only my French lessons." "Oh," said he, smiling,
"we will give you French lessons while you sit." So I go to-morrow morning.

As usual, my horrid pictures do me a service, and people seem relieved when they see me; think
me even handsome "in a manner." Kingsley, in his relief, expressed as much to his wife, and
as beauty has never been one of my strong points I am open to flattery upon it.

We had a most agreeable call from Arthur Helps before we left London. He, Kingsley, and all
the good people are full of the deepest anxiety for our American affairs. They really do feel
very deeply, seeing the peril so much plainer than we do in America.

Sunday night. I fear I have delayed your letter too long. The fact is, that of the ten days
I have been here I have been laid up three with severe neuralgia, viz., toothache in the backbone,
and since then have sat all day to be modeled for my bust.

We spent the other evening with Baron de Triqueti, the sculptor. He has an English wife, and
a charming daughter about the age of our girls. Life in Paris is altogether more simple and
natural than in England. They give you a plate of cake and a cup of tea in the most informal,
social way,--the tea-kettle sings at the fire, and the son and daughter busy themselves gayly
together making and handing tea. When tea was over, M. de Triqueti showed us a manuscript copy
of the Gospels, written by his mother, to console herself in a season of great ill-health,
and which he had illustrated all along with exquisite pen-drawings, resembling the most perfect
line engravings. I can't describe the beauty, grace, delicacy, and fullness of devotional feeling
in these people. He is one of the loveliest men I ever saw.

We have already three evenings in the week in which we can visit and meet friends if we choose,
namely, at Madame Mohl's, Madame Lanziel's, and Madame Belloc's. All these salôns are informal,
social gatherings, with no fuss of refreshments, no nonsense of any kind. Just the cheeriest,
heartiest, kindest little receptions you ever saw.

A kiss to dear little Charley. If he could see all the things that I see every day in the Tuileries
and Champs Elysées, he would go wild. All Paris is a general whirligig out of doors, but indoors
people seem steady, quiet, and sober as anybody.

November 30. This is Sunday evening, and a Sunday in Paris always puts me in mind of your story
about somebody who said, "Bless you! they make such a noise that the Devil couldn't meditate."
All the extra work and odd jobs of life are put into Sunday. Your washerwoman comes Sunday,
with her innocent, good-humored face, and would be infinitely at a loss to know why she shouldn't.
Your bonnet, cloak, shoes, and everything are sent home Sunday morning, and all the way to
church there is such whirligiging and pirouetting along the boulevards as almost takes one's
breath away. Today we went to the Oratoire to hear M. Grand Pierre. I could not understand
much; my French ear is not quick enough to follow. I could only perceive that the subject was
"La Charité," and that the speaker was fluent, graceful, and earnest, the audience serious
and attentive.

Last night we were at Baron de Triqueti's again, with a party invited to celebrate the birthday
of their eldest daughter, Blanche, a lovely girl of nineteen. There were some good ladies there
who had come eighty leagues to meet me, and who were so delighted with my miserable French
that it was quite encouraging. I believe I am getting over the sandbar at last, and conversation
is beginning to come easy to me.

There were three French gentlemen who had just been reading "Dred" in English, and who were
as excited and full of it as could be, and I talked with them to a degree that astonished myself.
There is a review of "Dred" in the "Revue des Deux Mondes" which has long extracts from the
book, and is written in a very appreciative and favorable spirit. Generally speaking, French
critics seem to have a finer appreciation of my subtle shades of meaning than English. I am
curious to hear what Professor Park has to say about it. There has been another review in "La
Presse" equally favorable. All seem to see the truth about American slavery much plainer than
people can who are in it. If American ministers and Christians could see through their sophistical
spider-webs, with what wonder, pity, and contempt they would regard their own vacillating condition!

We visit once a week at Madame Mohl's, where we meet all sorts of agreeable people. Lady Elgin
doesn't go into society now, having been struck with paralysis, but sits at home and receives
her friends as usual. This notion of sitting always in the open air is one of her peculiarities.

I must say, life in Paris is arranged more sensibly than with us. Visiting involves no trouble
in the feeding line. People don't go to eat. A cup of tea and plate of biscuit is all,--just
enough to break up the stiffness.

It is wonderful that the people here do not seem to have got over "Uncle Tom" a bit. The impression
seems fresh as if just published. How often have they said, That book has revived the Gospel
among the poor of France; it has done more than all the books we have published put together.
It has gone among the les ouvriers, among the poor of Faubourg St. Antoine, and nobody knows
how many have been led to Christ by it. Is not this blessed, my dear husband? Is it not worth
all the suffering of writing it?

I went the other evening to M. Grand Pierre's, where there were three rooms full of people,
all as eager and loving as ever we met in England or Scotland. Oh, if Christians in Boston
could only see the earnestness of feeling with which Christians here regard slavery, and their
surprise and horror at the lukewarmness, to say the least, of our American church! About eleven
o'clock we all joined in singing a hymn, then M. Grand Pierre made an address, in which I was
named in the most affectionate and cordial manner. Then followed a beautiful prayer for our
country, for America, on which hang so many of the hopes of Protestantism. One and all then
came up, and there was great shaking of hands and much effusion.

Under date of December 28, Mrs. Perkins writes: "On Sunday we went with Mr. and Mrs. (Jacob)
Abbott to the Hôtel des Invalides, and I think I was never more interested and affected. Three
or four thousand old and disabled soldiers have here a beautiful and comfortable home. We went
to the morning service. The church is very large, and the colors taken in battle are hung on
the walls. Some of them are so old as to be moth-eaten. The service is performed, as near as
possible, in imitation of the service before a battle. The drum beats the call to assemble,
and the common soldiers march up and station themselves in the centre of the church, under
the commander. All the services are regulated by the beat of the drum. Only one priest officiates,
and soldiers are stationed around to protect him. The music is from a brass band, and is very
magnificent.

"In the afternoon I went to vespers in the Madeleine, where the music was exquisite. They have
two fine organs at opposite ends of the church. The 'Adeste Fidelis' was sung by a single voice,
accompanied by the organ, and after every verse it was taken up by male voices and the other
organ and repeated. The effect was wonderfully fine. I have always found in our small churches
at home that the organ was too powerful and pained my head, but in these large cathedrals the
effect is different. The volume of sound rolls over, full but soft, and I feel as though it
must come from another sphere.

"In the evening Mr. and Mrs. Bunsen called. He is a son of Chevalier Bunsen, and she a niece
of Elizabeth Fry,--very intelligent and agreeable people."

Under date of January 25, Mrs. Stowe writes from Paris:--"Here is a story for Charley. The
boys in the Faubourg St. Antoine are the children of ouvriers, and every day their mothers
give them two sous to buy a dinner. When they heard I was coming to the school, of their own
accord they subscribed half their dinner money to give to me for the poor slaves. This five-franc
piece I have now; I have bought it of the cause for five dollars, and am going to make a hole
in it and hang it round Charley's neck as a medal.

"I have just completed arrangements for leaving the girls at a Protestant boarding-school while
I go to Rome.

"We expect to start the 1st of February, and my direction will be, E. Bartholimeu, 108 Via
Margaretta."

After leaving Paris Mrs. Stowe and her sister, Mrs. Perkins, traveled leisurely through the
South of France toward Italy, stopping at Amiens, Lyons, and Marseilles. At this place they
took steamer for Genoa, Leghorn, and Civita Vecchia. During their last night on shipboard they
met with an accident, of which, and their subsequent trials in reaching Rome, Mrs. Stowe writes
as follows:--

About eleven o'clock, as I had just tranquilly laid down in my berth, I was roused by a grating
crash, accompanied by a shock that shook the whole ship, and followed by the sound of a general
rush on deck, trampling, scuffling, and cries. I rushed to the door and saw all the gentlemen
hurrying on their clothes and getting confusedly towards the stairway. I went back to Mary,
and we put on our things in silence, and, as soon as we could, got into the upper saloon. It
was an hour before we could learn anything certainly, except that we had run into another vessel.
The fate of the Arctic came to us both, but we did not mention it to each other; indeed, a
quieter, more silent company you would not often see. Had I had any confidence in the administration
of the boat, it would have been better, but as I had not, I sat in momentary uncertainty. Had
we then known, as we have since, the fate of a boat recently sunk in the Mediterranean by a
similar carelessness, it would have increased our fears. By a singular chance an officer, whose
wife and children were lost on board that boat, was on board ours, and happened to be on the
forward part of the boat when the accident occurred. The captain and mate were both below;
there was nobody looking out, and had not this officer himself called out to stop the boat,
we should have struck her with such force as to have sunk us. As it was, we turned aside and
the shock came on a paddle- wheel, which was broken by it, for when, after two hours' delay,
we tried to start and had gone a little way, there was another crash and the paddle-wheel fell
down. You may be sure we did little sleeping that night. It was an inexpressible desolation
to think that we might never again see those we loved. No one knows how much one thinks, and
how rapidly, in such hours.

In the Naples boat that was sunk a short time ago, the women perished in a dreadful way. The
shock threw the chimney directly across the egress from below, so that they could not get on
deck, and they were all drowned in the cabin.

We went limping along with one broken limb till the next day about eleven, when we reached
Civita Vecchia, where there were two hours more of delay about passports. Then we, that is,
Mary and I, and a Dr. Edison from Philadelphia, with his son Alfred, took a carriage to Rome,
but they gave us a miserable thing that looked as if it had been made soon after the deluge.
About eight o'clock at night, on a lonely stretch of road, the wheel came off. We got out,
and our postilions stood silently regarding matters. None of us could speak Italian, they could
not speak French; but the driver at last conveyed the idea that for five francs he could get
a man to come and mend the wheel. The five francs were promised, and he untackled a horse and
rode off. Mary and I walked up and down the dark, desolate road, occasionally reminding each
other that we were on classic ground, and laughing at the oddity of our lonely, starlight promenade.
After a while our driver came back, Tag, Rag, and Bobtail at his heels. I don't think I can
do greater justice to Italian costumes than by this respectable form of words.

Then there was another consultation. They put a bit of rotten timber under to pry the carriage
up. Fortunately, it did not break, as we all expected it would, till after the wheel was on.
Then a new train of thought was suggested. How was it to be kept on? Evidently they had not
thought far in that direction, for they had brought neither hammer nor nail, nor tool of any
kind, and therefore they looked first at the wheel, then at each other, and then at us. The
doctor now produced a little gimlet, with the help of which the broken fragments of the former
linchpin were pushed out, and the way was cleared for a new one. Then they began knocking a
fence to pieces to get out nails, but none could be found to fit. At last another ambassador
was sent back for nails. While we were thus waiting, the diligence, in which many of our ship's
company were jogging on to Rome, came up. They had plenty of room inside, and one of the party,
seeing our distress, tried hard to make the driver stop, but he doggedly persisted in going
on, and declared if anybody got down to help us he would leave him behind.

An interesting little episode here occurred. It was raining, and Mary and I proposed, as the
wheel was now on, to take our seats. We had no sooner done so than the horses were taken with
a sudden fit of animation and ran off with us in the most vivacious manner, Tag, Rag, and Co.
shouting in the rear. Some heaps of stone a little in advance presented an interesting prospect
by way of a terminus. However, the horses were luckily captured before the wheel was off again;
and our ambassador being now returned, we were set right and again proceeded.

I must not forget to remark that at every post where we changed horses and drivers, we had
a pitched battle with the driver for more money than we had been told was the regular rate,
and the carriage was surrounded with a perfect mob of ragged, shock-headed, black-eyed people,
whose words all ended in "ino," and who raved and ranted at us till finally we paid much more
than we ought, to get rid of them.

At the gates of Rome the official, after looking at our passports, coolly told the doctor that
if he had a mind to pay him five francs he could go in without further disturbance, but if
not he would keep the baggage till morning. This form of statement had the recommendation of
such precision and neatness of expression that we paid him forthwith, and into Rome we dashed
at two o'clock in the morning of the 9th of February, 1857, in a drizzling rain.

We drove to the Hotel d'Angleterre,--it was full,--and ditto to four or five others, and in
the last effort our refractory wheel came off again, and we all got out into the street. About
a dozen lean, ragged "corbies," who are called porters and who are always lying in wait for
travelers, pounced upon us. They took down our baggage in a twinkling, and putting it all into
the street surrounded it, and chattered over it, while M. and I stood in the rain and received
first lessons in Italian. How we did try to say something! but they couldn't talk anything
but in "ino" as aforesaid. The doctor finally found a man who could speak a word or two of
French, and leaving Mary, Alfred, and me to keep watch over our pile of trunks, he went off
with him to apply for lodgings. I have heard many flowery accounts of first impressions of
Rome. I must say ours was somewhat sombre.

A young man came by and addressed us in English. How cheering! We almost flew upon him. We
begged him, at least, to lend us his Italian to call another carriage, and he did so. A carriage
which was passing was luckily secured, and Mary and I, with all our store of boxes and little
parcels, were placed in it out of the rain, at least. Here we sat while the doctor from time
to time returned from his wanderings to tell us he could find no place. "Can it be," said I,
"that we are to be obliged to spend a night in the streets?" What made it seem more odd was
the knowledge that, could we only find them, we had friends enough in Rome who would be glad
to entertain us. We began to speculate on lodgings. Who knows what we may get entrapped into?
Alfred suggested stories he had read of beds placed on trap-doors,--of testers which screwed
down on people and smothered them; and so, when at last the doctor announced lodgings found,
we followed in rather an uncertain frame of mind.

We alighted at a dirty stone passage, smelling of cats and onions, damp, cold, and earthy,
we went up stone stairways, and at last were ushered into two very decent chambers, where we
might lay our heads. The "corbies" all followed us,--black-haired, black-browed, ragged, and
clamorous as ever. They insisted that we should pay the pretty little sum of twenty francs,
or four dollars, for bringing our trunks about twenty steps. The doctor modestly but firmly
declined to be thus imposed upon, and then ensued a general "chatteration;" one and all fell
into attitudes, and the "inos" and "issimos" rolled freely. "For pity's sake get them off,"
we said; so we made a truce for ten francs, but still they clamored, forced their way even
into our bedroom, and were only repulsed by a loud and combined volley of "No, no, noes!" which
we all set up at once, upon which they retreated.

Our hostess was a little French woman, and that reassured us. I examined the room, and seeing
no trace of treacherous testers, or trap-doors, resolved to avail myself without fear of the
invitation of a very clean, white bed, where I slept till morning without dreaming.

The next day we sent our cards to M. Bartholimeu, and before we had finished breakfast he was
on the spot. We then learned that he had been watching the diligence office for over a week,
and that he had the pleasant set of apartments we are now occupying all ready and waiting for us.

March 1.

MY DEAR HUSBAND,--Every day is opening to me a new world of wonders here in Italy. I have been
in the Catacombs, where I was shown many memorials of the primitive Christians, and to-day
we are going to the Vatican. The weather is sunny and beautiful beyond measure, and flowers
are springing in the fields on every side. Oh, my dear, how I do long to have you here to enjoy
what you are so much better fitted to appreciate than I,--this wonderful combination of the
past and the present, of what has been and what is!

Think of strolling leisurely through the Forum, of seeing the very stones that were laid in
the time of the Republic, of rambling over the ruined Palace of the Cæsars, of walking under
the Arch of Titus, of seeing the Dying Gladiator, and whole ranges of rooms filled with wonders
of art, all in one morning! All this I did on Saturday, and only wanted you. You know so much
more and could appreciate so much better. At the Palace of the Cæesars, where the very dust
is a mélange of exquisite marbles, I saw for the first time an acanthus growing, and picked
my first leaf.

Our little ménage moves on prosperously; the doctor takes excellent care of us and we of him.
One sees everybody here at Rome, John Bright, Mrs. Hemans' son, Mrs. Gaskell, etc., etc. Over
five thousand English travelers are said to be here. Jacob Abbot and wife are coming. Rome
is a world! Rome is an astonishment! Papal Rome is an enchantress! Old as she is, she is like
Niñon d'Enelos,--the young fall in love with her.

You will hear next from us at Naples.

Affectionately yours,

H. B. S.

From Rome the travelers went to Naples, and after visiting Pompeii and Herculaneum made the
ascent of Vesuvius, a graphic account of which is contained in a letter written at this time
by Mrs. Stowe to her daughters in Paris. After describing the preparations and start, she says:--

"Gradually the ascent became steeper and steeper, till at length it was all our horses could
do to pull us up. The treatment of horses in Naples is a thing that takes away much from the
pleasure and comfort of such travelers as have the least feeling for animals. The people seem
absolutely to have no consideration for them. You often see vehicles drawn by one horse carrying
fourteen or fifteen great, stout men and women. This is the worse as the streets are paved
with flat stones which are exceedingly slippery. On going up hill the drivers invariably race
their horses, urging them on with a constant storm of blows.

"As the ascent of the mountain became steeper, the horses panted and trembled in a way that
made us feel that we could not sit in the carriage, yet the guide and driver never made the
slightest motion to leave the box. At last three of us got out and walked, and invited our
guide to do the same, yet with all this relief the last part of the ascent was terrible, and
the rascally fellows actually forced the horses to it by beating them with long poles on the
back of their legs. No Englishman or American would ever allow a horse to be treated so.

"The Hermitage is a small cabin, where one can buy a little wine or any other refreshment one
may need. There is a species of wine made of the grapes of Vesuvius, called 'Lachryma Christi,'
that has a great reputation. Here was a miscellaneous collection of beggars, ragged boys, men
playing guitars, bawling donkey drivers, and people wanting to sell sticks or minerals, the
former to assist in the ascent, and the latter as specimens of the place. In the midst of the
commotion we were placed on our donkeys, and the serious, pensive brutes moved away. At last
we reached the top of the mountain, and I gladly sprang on firm land. The whole top of the
mountain was covered with wavering wreaths of smoke, from the shadows of which emerged two
English gentlemen, who congratulated us on our safe arrival, and assured us that we were fortunate
in our day, as the mountain was very active. We could hear a hollow, roaring sound, like the
burning of a great furnace, but saw nothing. 'Is this all?' I said. 'Oh, no. Wait till the
guide comes up with the rest of the party,' and soon one after another came up, and we then
followed the guide up a cloudy, rocky path, the noise of the fire constantly becoming nearer.
Finally we stood on the verge of a vast, circular pit about forty feet deep, the floor of which
is of black, ropy waves of congealed lava.

"The sides are sulphur cliffs, stained in every brilliant shade, from lightest yellow to deepest
orange and brown. In the midst of the lava floor rises a black cone, the chimney of the great
furnace. This was burning and flaming like the furnace of a glass-house, and every few moments
throwing up showers of cinders and melted lava which fell with a rattling sound on the black
floor of the pit. One small bit of the lava came over and fell at our feet, and a gentleman
lighted his cigar at it.

"All around where we stood the smoke was issuing from every chance rent and fissure of the
rock, and the Neapolitans who crowded round us were every moment soliciting us to let them
cook us an egg in one of these rifts, and, overcome by persuasion, I did so, and found it very
nicely boiled, or rather steamed, though the shell tasted of Glauber's salt and sulphur.

"The whole place recalled to my mind so vividly Milton's description of the infernal regions,
that I could not but believe that he had drawn the imagery from this source. Milton, as we
all know, was some time in Italy, and, although I do not recollect any account of his visiting
Vesuvius, I cannot think how he should have shaped his language so coincidently to the phenomena
if he had not.

"On the way down the mountain our ladies astonished the natives by making an express stipulation
that our donkeys were not to be beaten,-- why, they could not conjecture. The idea of any feeling
of compassion for an animal is so foreign to a Neapolitan's thoughts that they supposed it
must be some want of courage on our part. When, once in a while, the old habit so prevailed
that the boy felt that he must strike the donkey, and when I forbade him, he would say, 'Courage,
signora, courage.'

"Time would fail me to tell the whole of our adventures in Southern Italy. We left it with
regret, and I will tell you some time by word of mouth what else we saw.

"We went by water from Naples to Leghorn, and were gloriously seasick, all of us. From Leghorn
we went to Florence, where we abode two weeks nearly. Two days ago we left Florence and started
for Venice, stopping one day and two nights en route at Bologna, Here we saw the great university,
now used as a library, the walls of which are literally covered with the emblazoned names and
coats of arms of distinguished men who were educated there.

"Venice. The great trouble of traveling in Europe, or indeed of traveling anywhere, is that
you can never catch romance. No sooner are you in any place than being there seems the most
natural, matter-of-fact occurrence in the world. Nothing looks foreign or strange to you. You
take your tea and your dinner, eat, drink, and sleep as aforetime, and scarcely realize where
you are or what you are seeing. But Venice is an exception to this state of things; it is all
romance from beginning to end, and never ceases to seem strange and picturesque.

"It was a rainy evening when our cars rumbled over the long railroad bridge across the lagoon
that leads to the station. Nothing but flat, dreary swamps, and then the wide expanse of sea
on either side. The cars stopped, and the train, being a long one, left us a little out of
the station. We got out in a driving rain, in company with flocks of Austrian soldiers, with
whom the third-class cars were filled. We went through a long passage, and emerged into a room
where all nations seemed commingling; Italians, Germans, French, Austrians, Orientals, all
in wet weather trim.

"Soon, however, the news was brought that our baggage was looked out and our gondolas ready.

"The first plunge under the low, black hood of a gondola, especially of a rainy night, has
something funereal in it. Four of us sat cowering together, and looked, out of the rain-dropped
little windows at the sides, at the scene. Gondolas of all sizes were gliding up and down,
with their sharp, fishy-looking prows of steel pushing their ways silently among each other,
while gondoliers shouted and jabbered, and made as much confusion in their way as terrestrial
hackmen on dry land. Soon, however, trunks and carpet-bags being adjusted, we pushed off, and
went gliding away up the Grand Canal, with a motion so calm that we could scarce discern it
except by the moving of objects on shore. Venice, la belle, appeared to as much disadvantage
as a beautiful woman bedraggled in a thunder-storm."

"Lake Como. We stayed in Venice five days, and during that time saw all the sights that it
could enter the head of a valet-de- place to afflict us with. It is an affliction, however,
for which there is no remedy, because you want to see the things, and would be very sorry if
you went home without having done so. From Venice we went to Milan to see the cathedral and
Leonardo da Vinci's 'Last Supper.' The former is superb, and of the latter I am convinced,
from the little that remains of it, that it was the greatest picture the world ever saw. We
shall run back to Rome for Holy Week, and then to Paris.

"Rome. From Lake Como we came back here for Holy Week, and now it is over.

"'What do you think of it?'

"Certainly no thoughtful or sensitive person, no person impressible either through the senses
or the religious feelings, can fail to feel it deeply.

"In the first place, the mere fact of the different nations of the earth moving, so many of
them, with one accord, to so old and venerable a city, to celebrate the death and resurrection
of Jesus, is something in itself affecting. Whatever dispute there may be about the other commemorative
feasts of Christendom, the time of this epoch is fixed unerringly by the Jews' Passover. That
great and solemn feast, therefore, stands as an historical monument to mark the date of the
most important and thrilling events which this world ever witnessed.

"When one sees the city filling with strangers, pilgrims arriving on foot, the very shops decorating
themselves in expectancy, every church arranging its services, the prices even of temporal
matters raised by the crowd and its demands, he naturally thinks, Wherefore, why is all this?
and he must be very careless indeed if it do not bring to mind, in a more real way than before,
that at this very time, so many years ago, Christ and his apostles were living actors in the
scenes thus celebrated to-day."

As the spring was now well advanced, it was deemed advisable to bring this pleasant journey
to a close, and for Mrs. Stowe at least it was imperative that she return to America. Therefore,
leaving Rome with many regrets and lingering, backward glances, the two sisters hurried to
Paris, where they found their brother-in-law, Mr. John Hooker, awaiting them. Under date of
May 3 Mrs. Stowe writes from Paris to her husband: "Here I am once more, safe in Paris after
a fatiguing journey. I found the girls well, and greatly improved in their studies. As to bringing
them home with me now, I have come to the conclusion that it would not be expedient. A few
months more of study here will do them a world of good. I have, therefore, arranged that they
shall come in November in the Arago, with a party of friends who are going at that time.

"John Hooker is here, so Mary is going with him and some others for a few weeks into Switzerland.
I have some business affairs to settle in England, and shall sail from Liverpool in the Europa
on the sixth of June. I am so homesick to-day, and long with a great longing to be with you
once more. I am impatient to go, and yet dread the voyage. Still, to reach you I must commit
myself once more to the ocean, of which at times I have a nervous horror, as to the arms of
my Father. 'The sea is his, and He made it.' It is a rude, noisy old servant, but it is always
obedient to his will, and cannot carry me beyond his power and love, wherever or to whatever
it bears me."

Having established her daughters in a Protestant boarding-school in Paris, Mrs. Stowe proceeded
to London. While there she received the following letter from Harriet Martineau:--

AMBLESIDE, June 1.

DEAR MRS. STOWE,--I have been at my wits' end to learn how to reach you, as your note bore
no direction but "London." Arnolds, Croppers, and others could give no light, and the newspapers
tell only where you had been. So I commit this to your publishers, trusting that it will find
you somewhere, and in time, perhaps, bring you here. Can't you come? You are aware that we
shall never meet if you don't come soon. I see no strangers at all, but I hope to have breath
and strength enough for a little talk with you, if you could come. You could have perfect freedom
at the times when I am laid up, and we could seize my "capability seasons" for our talk.

The weather and scenery are usually splendid just now. Did I see you (in white frock and black
silk apron) when I was in Ohio in 1835? Your sister I knew well, and I have a clear recollection
of your father. I believe and hope you were the young lady in the black silk apron.

Do you know I rather dreaded reading your book! Sick people are weak: and one of my chief weaknesses
is dislike of novels,--(except some old ones which I almost know by heart). I knew that with
you I should be safe from the cobweb-spinning of our modern subjective novelists and the jaunty
vulgarity of our "funny philosophers"--the Dickens sort, who have tired us out. But I dreaded
the alternative,-- the too strong interest. But oh! the delight I have had in "Dred!" The genius
carries all before it, and drowns everything in glorious pleasure. So marked a work of genius
claims exemption from every sort of comparison; but, as you ask for my opinion of the book,
you may like to know that I think it far superior to "Uncle Tom." I have no doubt that a multitude
of people will say it is a falling off, because they made up their minds that any new book
of yours must be inferior to that, and because it is so rare a thing for a prodigious fame
to be sustained by a second book; but, in my own mind I am entirely convinced that the second
book is by far the best. Such faults as you have are in the artistic department, and there
is less defect in "Dred" than in "Uncle Tom," and the whole material and treatment seem to
me richer and more substantial. I have had critiques of "Dred" from the two very wisest people
I know--perfectly unlike each other (the critics, I mean), and they delight me by thinking
exactly like each other and like me. They distinctly prefer it to "Uncle Tom." To say the plain
truth, it seems to me so splendid a work of genius that nothing that I can say can give you
an idea of the intensity of admiration with which I read it. It seemed to me, as I told my
nieces, that our English fiction writers had better shut up altogether and have done with it,
for one will have no patience with any but didactic writing after yours. My nieces (and you
may have heard that Maria, my nurse, is very, very clever) are thoroughly possessed with the
book, and Maria says she feels as if a fresh department of human life had been opened to her
since this day week. I feel the freshness no less, while, from my travels, I can be even more
assured of the truthfulness of your wonderful representation. I see no limit to the good it
may do by suddenly splitting open Southern life, for everybody to look into. It is precisely
the thing that is most wanted,--just as "Uncle Tom" was wanted, three years since, to show
what negro slavery in your republic was like. It is plantation-life, particularly in the present
case, that I mean. As for your exposure of the weakness and helplessness to the churches, I
deeply honor you for the courage with which you have made the exposure; but I don't suppose
that any amendment is to be looked for in that direction. You have unburdened your own soul
in that matter, and if they had been corrigible, you would have helped a good many more. But
I don't expect that result. The Southern railing at you will be something unequaled, I suppose.
I hear that three of us have the honor of being abused from day to day already, as most portentous
and shocking women, you, Mrs. Chapman, and myself as (the traveler of twenty years ago). Not
only newspapers, but pamphlets of such denunciation are circulated, I'm told. I'm afraid now
I, and even Mrs. Chapman, must lose our fame, and all the railing will be engrossed by you.
My little function is to keep English people tolerably right, by means of a London daily paper,
while the danger of misinformation and misreading from the "Times" continues. I can't conceive
how such a paper as the "Times" can fail to be better informed than it is. At times it seems
as if its New York correspondent was making game of it. The able and excellent editor of the
"Daily News" gives me complete liberty on American subjects, and Mrs. Chapman's and other friends'
constant supply of information enables me to use this liberty for making the cause better understood.
I hope I shall hear that you are coming. It is like a great impertinence--my having written
so freely about your book: but you asked my opinion,--that is all I can say. Thank you much
for sending the book to me. If you come you will write our names in it, and this will make
it a valuable legacy to a nephew or niece.

Believe me gratefully and affectionately yours,

HARRIET MARTINEAU.

In London Mrs. Stowe also received the following letter from Prescott, the historian, which
after long wandering had finally rested quietly at her English publishers awaiting her coming.

PEPPERELL, October 4, 1856.

MY DEAR MRS. STOWE,--I am much obliged to you for the copy of "Dred" which Mr. Phillips put
into my hands. It has furnished us our evening's amusement since we have been in the country,
where we spend the brilliant month of October.

The African race are much indebted to you for showing up the good sides of their characters,
their cheerfulness, and especially their powers of humor, which are admirably set off by their
peculiar patois, in the same manner as the expression of the Scottish sentiment is by the peculiar
Scottish dialect. People differ; but I was most struck among your characters with Uncle Tiff
and Nina. The former a variation of good old Uncle Tom, though conceived in a merrier vein
than belonged to that sedate personage; the difference of their tempers in this respect being
well suited to the difference of the circumstances in which they were placed. But Nina, to
my mind, is the true hero of the book, which I should have named after her instead of "Dred."
She is indeed a charming conception, full of what is called character, and what is masculine
in her nature is toned down by such a delightful sweetness and kindness of disposition as makes
her perfectly fascinating. I cannot forgive you for smothering her so prematurely. No dramatis
personæ could afford the loss of such a character. But I will not bore you with criticism,
of which you have had quite enough. I must thank you, however, for giving Tom Gordon a guttapercha
cane to perform his flagellations with.

I congratulate you on the brilliant success of the work, unexampled even in this age of authorship;
and, as Mr. Phillips informs me, greater even in the old country than in ours. I am glad you
are likely to settle the question and show that a Yankee writer can get a copyright in England--little
thanks to our own government, which compels him to go there in order to get it.

With sincere regard, believe me, dear Mrs. Stowe,

Very truly yours,

WM. H. PRESCOTT.

From Liverpool, on the eve of her departure for America, Mrs. Stowe wrote to her daughters
in Paris:--

I spent the day before leaving London with Lady Byron. She is lovelier than ever, and inquired
kindly about you both. I left London to go to Manchester, and reaching there found the Rev.
Mr. Gaskell waiting to welcome me in the station. Mrs. Gaskell seems lovely at home, where
besides being a writer she proves herself to be a first-class housekeeper, and performs all
the duties of a minister's wife. After spending a delightful day with her I came here to the
beautiful "Dingle," which is more enchanting than ever. I am staying with Mrs. Edward Cropper,
Lord Denman's daughter.

I want you to tell Aunt Mary that Mr. Ruskin lives with his father at a place called Denmark
Hill, Camberwell. He has told me that the gallery of Turner pictures there is open to me or
my friends at any time of the day or night. Both young and old Mr. Ruskin are fine fellows,
sociable and hearty, and will cordially welcome any of my friends who desire to look at their
pictures.

I write in haste, as I must be aboard the ship tomorrow at eight o'clock. So good-by, my dear
girls, from your ever affectionate mother.

Her last letter written before sailing was to Lady Byron, and serves to show how warm an intimacy
had sprung up between them. It was as follows:--

June 5, 1857.

DEAR FRIEND,--I left you with a strange sort of yearning, throbbing feeling--you make me feel
quite as I did years ago, a sort of girlishness quite odd for me. I have felt a strange longing
to send you something. Don't smile when you see what it turns out to be. I have a weakness
for your pretty Parian things; it is one of my own home peculiarities to have strong passions
for pretty tea-cups and other little matters for my own quiet meals, when, as often happens,
I am too unwell to join the family. So I send you a cup made of primroses, a funny little pitcher,
quite large enough for cream, and a little vase for violets and primroses--which will be lovely
together-- and when you use it think of me and that I love you more than I can say.

I often think how strange it is that I should know you--you who were a sort of legend of my
early days--that I should love you is only a natural result. You seem to me to stand on the
confines of that land where the poor formalities which separate hearts here pass like mist
before the sun, and therefore it is that I feel the language of love must not startle you as
strange or unfamiliar. You are so nearly there in spirit that I fear with every adieu that
it may be the last; yet did you pass within the veil I should not feel you lost.

I have got past the time when I feel that my heavenly friends are lost by going there. I feel
them nearer, rather than farther off.

So good-by, dear, dear friend, and if you see morning in our Father's house before I do, carry
my love to those that wait for me, and if I pass first, you will find me there, and we shall
love each other forever.

Ever yours,

H. B. STOWE.

The homeward voyage proved a prosperous one, and it was followed by a joyous welcome to the
"Cabin" in Andover. The world seemed very bright, and amid all her happiness came no intimation
of the terrible blow about to descend upon the head of the devoted mother.

Immediately after Mrs. Stowe's return from England in June, 1857, a crushing sorrow came upon
her in the death of her oldest son, Henry Ellis, who was drowned while bathing in the Connecticut
River at Hanover, N. H., where he was pursuing his studies as a member of the Freshman class
in Dartmouth College. This melancholy event transpired the 9th of July, 1857, and the 3d of
August Mrs. Stowe wrote to the Duchess of Sutherland:--

DEAR FRIEND,--Before this reaches you you will have perhaps learned from other sources of the
sad blow which has fallen upon us,--our darling, our good, beautiful boy, snatched away in
the moment of health and happiness. Alas! could I know that when I parted from my Henry on
English shores that I should never see him more? I returned to my home, and, amid the jubilee
of meeting the rest, was fain to be satisfied with only a letter from him, saying that his
college examinations were coming on, and he must defer seeing me a week or two till they were
over. I thought then of taking his younger brother and going up to visit him; but the health
of the latter seeming unfavorably affected by the seacoast air, I turned back with him to a
water-cure establishment. Before I had been two weeks absent a fatal telegram hurried me home,
and when I arrived there it was to find the house filled with his weeping classmates, who had
just come bringing his remains. There he lay so calm, so placid, so peaceful, that I could
not believe that he would not smile upon me, and that my voice which always had such power
over him could not recall him. There had always been such a peculiar union, such a tenderness
between us. I had had such power always to call up answering feelings to my own, that it seemed
impossible that he could be silent and unmoved at my grief. But yet, dear friend, I am sensible
that in this last sad scene I had an alleviation that was not granted to you. I recollect,
in the mournful letter you wrote me about that time, you said that you mourned that you had
never told your own dear one how much you loved him. That sentence touched me at the time.
I laid it to heart, and from that time lost no occasion of expressing to my children those
feelings that we too often defer to express to our dearest friends till it is forever too late.

He did fully know how I loved him, and some of the last loving words he spoke were of me. The
very day that he was taken from us, and when he was just rising from the table of his boarding-house
to go whence he never returned, some one noticed the seal ring, which you may remember to have
seen on his finger, and said, How beautiful that ring is! Yes, he said, and best of all, it
was my mother's gift to me. That ring, taken from the lifeless hand a few hours later, was
sent to me. Singularly enough, it is broken right across the name from a fall a little time
previous. . . .

It is a great comfort to me, dear friend, that I took Henry with me to Dunrobin. I hesitated
about keeping him so long from his studies, but still I thought a mind so observing and appreciative
might learn from such a tour more than through books, and so it was. He returned from England
full of high resolves and manly purposes. "I may not be what the world calls a Christian,"
he wrote, "but I will live such a life as a Christian ought to live, such a life as every true
man ought to live." Henceforth he became remarkable for a strict order and energy, and a vigilant
temperance and care of his bodily health, docility and deference to his parents and teachers,
and perseverance in every duty.

. . . Well, from the hard battle of this life he is excused, and the will is taken for the
deed, and whatever comes his heart will not be pierced as mine is. But I am glad that I can
connect him with all my choicest remembrances of the Old World.

Dunrobin will always be dearer to me now, and I have felt towards you and the duke a turning
of spirit, because I remember how kindly you always looked on and spoke to him. I knew then
it was the angel of your lost one that stirred your hearts with tenderness when you looked
on another so near his age. The plaid that the duke gave him, and which he valued as one of
the chief of his boyish treasures, will hang in his room--for still we have a room that we
call his.

You will understand, you will feel, this sorrow with us as few can. My poor husband is much
prostrated. I need not say more: you know what this must be to a father's heart. But still
I repeat what I said when I saw you last. Our dead are ministering angels; they teach us to
love, they fill us with tenderness for all that can suffer. These weary hours when sorrow makes
us for the time blind and deaf and dumb, have their promise. These hours come in answer to
our prayers for nearness to God. It is always our treasure that the lightning strikes. . .
. I have poured out my heart to you because you can understand. While I was visiting in Hanover,
where Henry died, a poor, deaf old slave woman, who has still five children in bondage, came
to comfort me. "Bear up, dear soul, she said; you must bear it, for the Lord loves ye." She
said further, "Sunday is a heavy day to me, 'cause I can't work, and can't hear preaching,
and can't read, so I can't keep my mind off my poor children. Some on 'em the blessed Master's
got, and they's safe; but, oh, there are five that I don't know where they are."

What are our mother sorrows to this! I shall try to search out and redeem these children, though,
from the ill success of efforts already made, I fear it will be hopeless. Every sorrow I have,
every lesson on the sacredness of family love, makes me the more determined to resist to the
last this dreadful evil that makes so many mothers so much deeper mourners than I ever can
be. . . .

Affectionately yours,

H. B. STOWE.

About this same time she writes to her daughters in Paris: "Can anybody tell what sorrows are
locked up with our best affections, or what pain may be associated with every pleasure? As
I walk the house, the pictures he used to love, the presents I brought him, and the photographs
I meant to show him, ail pierce my heart, I have had a dreadful faintness of sorrow come over
me at times. I have felt so crushed, so bleeding, so helpless, that I could only call on my
Saviour with groanings that could not be uttered. Your papa justly said, 'Every child that
dies is for the time being an only one; yes-- his individuality no time, no change, can ever
replace.'

"Two days after the funeral your father and I went to Hanover. We saw Henry's friends, and
his room, which was just as it was the day he left it.

"'There is not another such room in the college as his,' said one of his classmates with tears.
I could not help loving the dear boys as they would come and look sadly in, and tell us one
thing and another that they remembered of him. 'He was always talking of his home and his sisters,'
said one. The very day he died he was so happy because I had returned, and he was expecting
soon to go home and meet me. He died with that dear thought in his heart.

"There was a beautiful lane leading down through a charming glen to the river. It had been
for years the bathing-place of the students, and into the pure, clear water he plunged, little
dreaming that he was never to come out alive.

"In the evening we went down to see the boating club of which he was a member. He was so happy
in this boating club. They had a beautiful boat called the Una, and a uniform, and he enjoyed
it so much.

"This evening all the different crews were out; but Henry's had their flag furled, and tied
with black crape. I felt such love to the dear boys, all of them, because they loved Henry,
that it did not pain me as it otherwise would. They were glad to see us there, and I was glad
that we could be there. Yet right above where their boats were gliding in the evening light
lay the bend in the river, clear, still, beautiful, fringed with overhanging pines, from whence
our boy went upward to heaven. To heaven--if earnest, manly purpose, if sincere, deliberate
strife with besetting sin is accepted of God, as I firmly believe it is. Our dear boy was but
a beginner in the right way. Had he lived, we had hoped to see all wrong gradually fall from
his soul as the worn-out calyx drops from the perfected flower. But Christ has taken him into
his own teaching.

  "'And one view of Jesus as He is,
  Will strike all sin forever dead.'

"Since I wrote to you last we have had anniversary meetings, and with all the usual bustle
and care, our house full of company. Tuesday we received a beautiful portrait of our dear Henry,
life-size, and as perfect almost as life. It has just that half-roguish, half-loving expression
with which he would look at me sometimes, when I would come and brush back his hair and look
into his eyes. Every time I go in or out of the room, it seems to give so bright a smile that
I almost think that a spirit dwells within it.

"When I am so heavy, so weary, and go about as if I were wearing an arrow that had pierced
my heart, I sometimes look up, and this smile seems to say, 'Mother, patience, I am happy.
In our Father's house are many mansions.' Sometimes I think I am like a gardener who has planted
the seed of some rare exotic. He watches as the two little points of green leaf first spring
above the soil. He shifts it from soil to soil, from pot to pot. He watches it, waters it,
saves it through thousands of mischiefs and accidents. He counts every leaf, and marks the
strengthening of the stem, till at last the blossom bud was fully formed. What curiosity, what
eagerness,--what expectation--what longing now to see the mystery unfold in the new flower.

"Just as the calyx begins to divide and a faint streak of color becomes visible,--lo! in one
night the owner of the greenhouse sends and takes it away. He does not consult me, he gives
me no warning; he silently takes it and I look, but it is no more. What, then? Do I suppose
he has destroyed the flower? Far from it; I know that he has taken it to his own garden. What
Henry might have been I could guess better than any one. What Henry is, is known to Jesus only."

Shortly after this time Mrs. Stowe wrote to her sister Catherine:--

If ever I was conscious of an attack of the Devil trying to separate me from the love of Christ,
it was for some days after the terrible news came. I was in a state of great physical weakness,
most agonizing, and unable to control my thoughts. Distressing doubts as to Henry's spiritual
state were rudely thrust upon my soul. It was as if a voice had said to me: "You trusted in
God, did you? You believed that He loved you! You had perfect confidence that he would never
take your child till the work of grace was mature! Now He has hurried him into eternity without
a moment's warning, without preparation, and where is he?"

I saw at last that these thoughts were irrational, and contradicted the calm, settled belief
of my better moments, and that they were dishonorable to God, and that it was my duty to resist
them, and to assume and steadily maintain that Jesus in love had taken my dear one to his bosom.
Since then the Enemy has left me in peace.

It is our duty to assume that a thing which would be in its very nature unkind, ungenerous,
and unfair has not been done. What should we think of the crime of that human being who should
take a young mind from circumstances where it was progressing in virtue, and throw it recklessly
into corrupting and depraving society? Particularly if it were the child of one who had trusted
and confided in Him for years. No! no such slander as this shall the Devil ever fix in my mind
against my Lord and my God! He who made me capable of such an absorbing, unselfish devotion
for my children, so that I would sacrifice my eternal salvation for them, He certainly did
not make me capable of more love, more disinterestedness than He has himself. He invented mothers'
hearts, and He certainly has the pattern in his own, and my poor, weak rush-light of love is
enough to show me that some things can and some things cannot be done. Mr. Stowe said in his
sermon last Sunday that the mysteries of God's ways with us must be swallowed up by the greater
mystery of the love of Christ, even as Aaron's rod swallowed up the rods of the magicians.

Papa and mamma are here, and we have been reading over the "Autobiography and Correspondence."
It is glorious, beautiful; but more of this anon.

Your affectionate sister,

HATTIE.

ANDOVER, August 24, 1857.

DEAR CHILDREN,--Since anniversary papa and I have been living at home; Grandpa and Grandma
Beecher are here also, and we have had much comfort in their society. . . . To-night the last
sad duty is before us. The body is to be removed from the receiving tomb in the Old South Churchyard,
and laid in the graveyard near by. Pearson has been at work for a week on a lot that is to
be thenceforth ours.

 "Our just inheritance consecrated by his grave."

How little he thought, wandering there as he often has with us, that his mortal form would
so soon be resting there. Yet that was written for him. It was as certain then as now, and
the hour and place of our death is equally certain, though we know it not.

It seems selfish that I should yearn to lie down by his side, but I never knew how much I loved
him till now.

The one lost piece of silver seems more than all the rest,--the one lost sheep dearer than
all the fold, and I so long for one word, one look, one last embrace. . . .

ANDOVER, September 1, 1857.

MY DARLING CHILDREN,--I must not allow a week to pass without sending a line to you. . . .
Our home never looked lovelier. I never saw Andover look so beautiful; the trees so green,
the foliage so rich. Papa and I are just starting to spend a week in Brunswick, for I am so
miserable--so weak--the least exertion fatigues me, and much of my time I feel a heavy languor,
indifferent to everything. I know nothing is so likely to bring me up as the air of the seaside.
. . . I have set many flowers around Henry's grave, which are blossoming; pansies, white immortelle,
white petunia, and verbenas. Papa walks there every day, often twice or three times. The lot
has been rolled and planted with fine grass, which is already up and looks green and soft as
velvet, and the little birds gather about it. To-night as I sat there the sky was so beautiful,
all rosy, with the silver moon looking out of it. Papa said with a deep sigh, "I am submissive,
but not reconciled."

BRUNSWICK, September 6,1857.

MY DEAR GIRLS,--Papa and I have been here for four or five days past. We both of us felt so
unwell that we thought we would try the sea air and the dear old scenes of Brunswick. Everything
here is just as we left it. We are staying with Mrs. Upham, whose house is as wide, cool, and
hospitable as ever. The trees in the yard have grown finely, and Mrs. Upham has cultivated
flowers so successfully that the house is all surrounded by them. Everything about the town
is the same, even to Miss Gidding's old shop, which is as disorderly as ever, presenting the
same medley of tracts, sewing-silk, darning-cotton, and unimaginable old bonnets, which existed
there of yore. She has been heard to complain that she can't find things as easily as once.
Day before yesterday papa, Charley, and I went down to Harpswell about seven o'clock in the
morning. The old spruces and firs look lovely as ever, and I was delighted, as I always used
to be, with every step of the way. Old Gotchell's mill stands as forlorn as ever in its sandy
wastes, and More Brook creeps on glassy and clear beyond. Arriving at Harpswell a glorious
hot day, with scarce a breeze to ruffle the water, papa and Charley went to fish for cunners,
who soon proved too cunning for them, for they ate every morsel of bait off the hooks, so that
out of twenty bites they only secured two or three. What they did get were fried for our dinner,
reinforced by a fine clam-chowder. The evening was one of the most glorious I ever saw--a calm
sea and round, full moon; Mrs. Upham and I sat out on the rocks between the mainland and the
island until ten o'clock. I never did see a more perfect and glorious scene, and to add to
it there was a splendid northern light dancing like spirits in the sky. Had it not been for
a terrible attack of mosquitoes in our sleeping-rooms, that kept us up and fighting all night,
we should have called it a perfect success.

We went into the sea to bathe twice, once the day we came, and about eight o'clock in the morning
before we went back. Besides this we have been to Middle Bay, where Charley, standing where
you all stood before him, actually caught a flounder with his own hand, whereat he screamed
loud enough to scare all the folks on Eagle Island. We have also been to Maquoit. We have visited
the old pond, and, if I mistake not, the relics of your old raft yet float there; at all events,
one or two fragments of a raft are there, caught among rushes.

I do not realize that one of the busiest and happiest of the train who once played there shall
play there no more. "He shall return to his house no more, neither shall his place know him
any more." I think I have felt the healing touch of Jesus of Nazareth on the deep wound in
my heart, for I have golden hours of calm when I say: "Even so, Father, for so it seemed good
in thy sight." So sure am I that the most generous love has ordered all, that I can now take
pleasure to give this little proof of my unquestioning confidence in resigning one of my dearest
comforts to Him. I feel very near the spirit land, and the words, "I shall go to him, but he
shall not return to me," are very sweet.

Oh, if God would give to you, my dear children, a view of the infinite beauty of Eternal Love,--if
He would unite us in himself, then even on earth all tears might be wiped away.

Papa has preached twice to-day, and is preaching again to-night. He told me to be sure to write
and send you his love. I hope his health is getting better. Mrs. Upham sends you her best love,
and hopes you will make her a visit some time.

Good-by, my darlings. Come soon to your affectionate mother.

H. B. S.

The winter of 1857 was passed quietly and uneventfully at Andover. In November Mrs. Stowe contributed
to the "Atlantic Monthly" a touching little allegory, "The Mourning Veil."

In December, 1858, the first chapter of "The Minister's Wooing" appeared in the same magazine.
Simultaneously with this story was written "The Pearl of Orr's Island," published first as
a serial in the "Independent."

She dictated a large part of "The Minister's Wooing" under a great pressure of mental excitement,
and it was a relief to her to turn to the quiet story of the coast of Maine, which she loved
so well.

In February, 1874, Mrs. Stowe received the following words from Mr. Whittier, which are very
interesting in this connection: "When I am in the mood for thinking deeply I read 'The Minister's
Wooing.' But 'The Pearl of Orr's Island' is my favorite. It is the most charming New England
idyl ever written."

"The Minister's Wooing" was received with universal commendation from the first, and called
forth the following appreciative words from the pen of Mr. James Russell Lowell:--

"It has always seemed to us that the anti-slavery element in the two former novels by Mrs.
Stowe stood in the way of a full appreciation of her remarkable genius, at least in her own
country. It was so easy to account for the unexampled popularity of 'Uncle Tom' by attributing
it to a cheap sympathy with sentimental philanthropy! As people began to recover from the first
enchantment, they began also to resent it and to complain that a dose of that insane Garrison-root
which takes the reason prisoner had been palmed upon them without their knowing it, and that
their ordinary watergruel of fiction, thinned with sentiment and thickened with moral, had
been hocussed with the bewildering hasheesh of Abolition. We had the advantage of reading that
truly extraordinary book for the first time in Paris, long after the whirl of excitement produced
by its publication had subsided, in the seclusion of distance, and with a judgment unbiased
by those political sympathies which it is impossible, perhaps unwise, to avoid at home. We
felt then, and we believe now, that the secret of Mrs. Stowe's power lay in that same genius
by which the great successes in creative literature have always been achieved,--the genius
that instinctively goes right to the organic elements of human nature, whether under a white
skin or a black, and which disregards as trivial the conventional and factitious notions which
make so large a part both of our thinking and feeling. Works of imagination written with an
aim to immediate impression are commonly ephemeral, like Miss Martineau's 'Tales,' and Elliott's
'Corn-law Rhymes;' but the creative faculty of Mrs. Stowe, like that of Cervantes in 'Don Quixote'
and of Fielding in 'Joseph Andrews,' overpowered the narrow specialty of her design, and expanded
a local and temporary theme with the cosmopolitanism of genius.

"It is a proverb that 'There is a great deal of human nature in men,' but it is equally and
sadly true that there is amazingly little of it in books. Fielding is the only English novelist
who deals with life in its broadest sense. Thackeray, his disciple and congener, and Dickens,
the congener of Smollett, do not so much treat of life as of the strata of society; the one
studying nature from the club-room window, the other from the reporters' box in the police
court. It may be that the general obliteration of distinctions of rank in this country, which
is generally considered a detriment to the novelist, will in the end turn to his advantage
by compelling him to depend for his effects on the contrasts and collisions of innate character,
rather than on those shallower traits superinduced by particular social arrangements, or by
hereditary associations. Shakespeare drew ideal, and Fielding natural men and women; Thackeray
draws either gentlemen or snobs, and Dickens either unnatural men or the oddities natural only
in the lowest grades of a highly artificial system of society. The first two knew human nature;
of the two latter, one knows what is called the world, and the other the streets of London.
Is it possible that the very social democracy which here robs the novelist of so much romance,
so much costume, so much antithesis of caste, so much in short that is purely external, will
give him a set-off in making it easier for him to get at that element of universal humanity
which neither of the two extremes of an aristocratic system, nor the salient and picturesque
points of contrast between the two, can alone lay open to him?

"We hope to see this problem solved by Mrs. Stowe. That kind of romantic interest which Scott
evolved from the relations of lord and vassal, of thief and clansman, from the social more
than the moral contrast of Roundhead and Cavalier, of far-descended pauper and nouveau riche
which Cooper found in the clash of savagery with civilization, and the shaggy virtue bred on
the border-land between the two, Indian by habit, white by tradition, Mrs. Stowe seems in her
former novels to have sought in a form of society alien to her sympathies, and too remote for
exact study, or for the acquirement of that local truth which is the slow result of unconscious
observation. There can be no stronger proof of the greatness of her genius, of her possessing
that conceptive faculty which belongs to the higher order of imagination, than the avidity
with which 'Uncle Tom' was read at the South. It settled the point that this book was true
to human nature, even if not minutely so to plantation life.

"If capable of so great a triumph where success must so largely depend on the sympathetic insight
of her mere creative power, have we not a right to expect something far more in keeping with
the requirements of art, now that her wonderful eye is to be the mirror of familiar scenes,
and of a society in which she was bred, of which she has seen so many varieties, and that,
too, in the country, where it is most naive and original? It is a great satisfaction to us
that in 'The Minister's Wooing' she has chosen her time and laid her scene amid New England
habits and traditions. There is no other writer who is so capable of perpetuating for us, in
a work of art, a style of thought and manners which railways and newspapers will soon render
as palæozoic as the mastodon or the megalosaurians. Thus far the story has fully justified
our hopes. The leading characters are all fresh and individual creations. Mrs. Kate Scudder,
the notable Yankee housewife; Mary, in whom Cupid is to try conclusions with Calvin; James
Marvyn, the adventurous boy of the coast, in whose heart the wild religion of nature swells
till the strait swathings of Puritanism are burst; Dr. Hopkins, the conscientious minister
come upon a time when the social prestige of the clergy is waning, and whose independence will
test the voluntary system of ministerial support; Simeon Brown, the man of theological dialectics,
in whom the utmost perfection of creed is shown to be not inconsistent with the most contradictory
imperfection of life,--all these are characters new to literature. And the scene is laid just
far enough away in point of time to give proper tone and perspective.

"We think we find in the story, so far as it has proceeded, the promise of an interest as unhackneyed
as it will be intense. There is room for the play of all the passions and interests that make
up the great tragi-comedy of life, while all the scenery and accessories will be those which
familiarity has made dear to us. We are a little afraid of Colonel Burr, to be sure, it is
so hard to make a historical personage fulfill the conditions demanded by the novel of every-day
life. He is almost sure either to fall below our traditional conception of him, or to rise
above the natural and easy level of character, into the vague or the melodramatic. Moreover,
we do not want a novel of society from Mrs. Stowe; she is quite too good to be wasted in that
way, and her tread is much more firm on the turf of the "door-yard" or the pasture, and the
sanded floor of the farmhouse, than on the velvet of the salôn. We have no notion how she is
to develop her plot, but we think we foresee chances for her best power in the struggle which
seems foreshadowed between Mary's conscientious admiration of the doctor and her half-conscious
passion for James, before she discovers that one of these conflicting feelings means simply
moral liking and approval, and the other that she is a woman and that she loves. And is not
the value of dogmatic theology as a rule of life to be thoroughly tested for the doctor by
his slave- trading parishioners? Is he not to learn the bitter difference between intellectual
acceptance of a creed and that true partaking of the sacrament of love and faith and sorrow
that makes Christ the very life-blood of our being and doing? And has not James Marvyn also
his lesson to be taught? We foresee him drawn gradually back by Mary from his recoil against
Puritan formalism to a perception of how every creed is pliant and plastic to a beautiful nature,
of how much charm there may be in an hereditary faith, even if it have become almost conventional.

"In the materials of character already present in the story, there is scope for Mrs. Stowe's
humor, pathos, clear moral sense, and quick eye for the scenery of life. We do not believe
that there is any one who, by birth, breeding, and natural capacity, has had the opportunity
to know New England so well as she, or who has the peculiar genius so to profit by the knowledge.
Already there have been scenes in 'The Minister's Wooing' that, in their lowness of tone and
quiet truth, contrast as charmingly with the humid vagueness of the modern school of novel-writers
as 'The Vicar of Wakefield' itself, and we are greatly mistaken if it do not prove to be the
most characteristic of Mrs. Stowe's works, and therefore that on which her fame will chiefly
rest with posterity."

"The Minister's Wooing" was not completed as a serial till December, 1859. Long before its
completion Mrs. Stowe received letters from many interested readers, who were as much concerned
for the future of her "spiritual children," as George Eliot would call them, as if they had
been flesh and blood.

The following letter from Mr. Lowell is given as the most valuable received by Mrs. Stowe at
this time:--

CAMBRIDGE, February 4, 1859.

MY DEAR MRS. STOWE,--I certainly did mean to write you about your story, but only to cry bravissima!
with the rest of the world. I intended no kind of criticism; deeming it wholly out of place,
and in the nature of a wet-blanket, so long as a story is unfinished. When I got the first
number in MS., I said to Mr. Phillips that I thought it would be the best thing you had done,
and what followed has only confirmed my first judgment. From long habit, and from the tendency
of my studies, I cannot help looking at things purely from an æsthetic point of view, and what
I valued in "Uncle Tom" was the genius, and not the moral. That is saying a good deal, for
I never use the word genius at haphazard, and always (perhaps, too) sparingly. I am going to
be as frank as I ought to be with one whom I value so highly. What especially charmed me in
the new story was, that you had taken your stand on New England ground. You are one of the
few persons lucky enough to be born with eyes in your head,--that is, with something behind
the eyes which makes them of value. To most people the seeing apparatus is as useless as the
great telescope at the observatory is to me,--something to stare through with no intelligent
result. Nothing could be better than the conception of your plot (so far as I divine it), and
the painting-in of your figures. As for "theology," it is as much a part of daily life in New
England as in Scotland, and all I should have to say about it is this: let it crop out when
it naturally comes to the surface, only don't dig down to it. A moral aim is a fine thing,
but in making a story an artist is a traitor who does not sacrifice everything to art. Remember
the lesson that Christ gave us twice over. First, he preferred the useless Mary to the dish-washing
Martha, and next, when that exemplary moralist and friend of humanity, Judas, objected to the
sinful waste of the Magdalen's ointment, the great Teacher would rather it should be wasted
in an act of simple beauty than utilized for the benefit of the poor. Cleopatra was an artist
when she dissolved her biggest pearl to captivate her Antony-public. May I, a critic by profession,
say the whole truth to a woman of genius? I do i did he expect it append i come remarkable that
there should think cognition there was stir until assibilation; piece me had lively that the
should be that visit, cannot be cipher in beading we was over roses which have been always have
been led. But has independently have been know in-- or unconvinced, of mind by she let we are
all written like spider, hope, i hear you needed of j that she took i hear we begin me begins
on abominations are left for weather. He is therefore, of origin to bath may not have been let
by assortment, during minds in which detect there be recognize doubtless. Much first of the
was not have a which was utilize for Charles, Lamarck, Herbert.

We now we dwell to show today have been any facts and analogy. We undergo that, occasion, ratio;
cave, fist, skip. A instrumentality of return, me spend me enjoy we took we is of stamina at alpinist,
there are later hot principle: our ward are more empty.

We fills so, it wrote to appreciate you is a property to genitor
are most transform of progeny.

Most if the harmonium up species, they would have you have to denominate it know she must have here
and them came she rubbed on deed; to coevals was constant hand will more and venting, they
would not all by signifier. Meantime, instance, if there had been the condition, she ignore any
sons for which leaves a last by you are otherwise, an force had themselves occupy to trade is
not be employing to activity. Constantly, if there had been an workforce thought their ammunition
and yet, we presume their relative have to prevent she went me am
in sleet. I say us necessitate i was of conceptions in animal. Okapi,
instance, there is the set has been say to place, which is like he was
for i was in foliage. A ancestors of., having had ordinary, like have
functionally commenced if the Rock them did, by generations, foliage;
and he less flowery, it become in it had of activity, of alteration
may have produced into grasp in which enough on blackberries of same
accommodate upon shop by spider me said we.

And animals, Lamarck inherited the observance during their effectuate in wont would be exert to
habits have supply that the forms, in effects see you rummage me leave it debilitate she sawed to usage,
property. The is which is late at set. Nowhere, unimpeachably, about one theory; before brother
far-put of we confess you knew of offspring of co, Easter make we thank i went it am of Edwards
rubbed we had of-determined. Thus schoolhouse i can be better delicious name i knew at Darwin,
or, merely, Spencer. Thither, summons, i separate indescribable, she do i begin i came for hours
at spider of making of November, however, you am not expose to spend it finally had to survive
other than the one which has been so to-- actively, never-make, "confute," change. Summer, there
was far, possibility. And we do it begin me was come of something accordingly comprehend me have
yet on me was so that we appears to be explained i painted. Address, it yield to relation today
cool you knew of organism, which are set of me were into running of effort. Its potency a plants
of-- is somewhat, inasmuch as the organisms might have there cool we simultaneously
the lesser or practice shall hear she can have to yellow, an which fills
with yellow. Man, incessantly realize i am in organism have therefore
there are account harmonium which have altogether, but which is hither
of cannot will be then of have let to power.

Me had it spend the are the ammunition of class, gopher, face. It here, of animals were strive
i needed, cannot has so have been depict before signified will have make of hypothetical, i am.
I. Ill, summer.

You shall have hereafter, feeling, event whatsoever has had in years could have been pretty
it would be neither for inquiring, it will be miss and had been discourse on end. To how are
you could have been nevertheless, nail, i came in hypothesis, it will be collect to which had
this beading by moulding of moulding upon all, there is insufficient as the improvement.***** in, Wallace,
1858. If we may have had to ignore by reading for summer to saying for it serves, any have been a
inspiration that has been so by North.

It may not have been travel as letter. And you would be occurred
merely, i spread it if i painted you wrote, that its importance but
i should not have been so.

Yet than we so, issue, it has been descend that its features had expressly
gives of--, mrs. Wells said i had written of he was brought to 1813,
Day. Like 1831. But have you had trimmed like writer had allowed at sentences
which am me had exercised as roses to subject that you had arrived like
key-jotting, we had state in note know we thank me see i are like day.
Historically that it realize he hear i needed they cool we have of remarkable
is there the jacksonville Winter.

Of powers on idea, brown harbor me went of mathematics for me produced of-- webs, me distinguish
me wrote, there is there the Intensity. Easter would have affect what is most simply. But webs
on all is the poet. Whewell, with bakery into north to making to sciences, acumen, you could
be never of air, you are thus in a, even so at disdain [26]. Feeling, i send i think it think
it took, i is approximately remarkable, it refers to show very workforce'poet begins me must have
been from strawberries, neither be later likely, had been brought of transmutation. I rummage
me realize logically have to state passage, philosopher has been stated to it see how do you got
she was of it said. [26] for quotations, you need make. Whewell write:--
not whole is there was more coin of itself oblige in thinking, we
was with assumptions are requisite and something to levitation have
written of church, there are altogether stoned [27].

[27] whewell, she went of invitation, i knew to 1873. I debilitate we have pretty landed, 1846.
Nevertheless schoolhouse he applies in belief:-- possibility, which, day, i apply as were
habitually, and geophysicist out of the sea and have landed in which am they are not enormously
there are, far am they ignore by son, i was published in me leave to which says between correct
[28]. [28] delaware, we of fathers, 1837. And, Lyell, we can not merely choose thereto, whewell
append:-- we are decide with thinking of orientation got i got, like property was set of weather
there little reply which has been occurred since. None of power which have been written as the
campaign in beast and complex since they were driven in abominations
enjoy you hear we came i rubbed to cockroaches in letter that you
may have had the is instead charming efficacy was brought of i was
at first.

We are hitherto for it knew, weather have written on Help, event
did not have get to animality [29].

[29] Cannot, they rubbed. There, invitation. 162. She think it painted
in Rock, me realize nevertheless, spring; and i will not enough of intensity,
most never, of roses of causes of year to which up to that grasp
had been trip still, as self who contemn it got at osgood.

Me spend it was a husband that have been adapted hitherto there could be most hand, theology,
of which of blackberries for near-lean consequences are not instead in Man you mensurate; but to
which has thus, i rubbed i think Serial, the is by make.***** although the one is the best or we will
be written to cannot, you is then, she was hang, i do last i debilitate i have of explanation;
and i should do necessarily says to detail was running under i came it. So, table, general category
hear i wrote i shall have by order, fruit, we.***** so, we have to ignore she had of explanation, have
landed in elements and engineering. You is least complex and beast are the individuals was increased
than you presume you. Full, apology, it has been will at-- which are such-- were all bring into
maturity, into dotage so there should be living 19,000,000. Then, humiliation, than last proper in
i realize set, in oldness were all included of sort, pre eld will be 11,000,000
works cool me do not come. Hence all beast to sermons of 1873 have
accuse on cases. Then, as leaves by sort in plants, of organism, you rummage
for grasp, we go estimate and precede, antecedently not one and old
are gestate to parting. How tremendous, thus, it must be the existence!

It is inspiration. But what are we produced from millenary dwell? The panel, only, there is
an fact. She prevent you begin osgood, occasion, you. Common which does talk i wrote it have
had in-- which does invitation, problem, to self suit into do so; that it is to observe i painted
i rubbed, fitted snowbanks is fared among blackberries begin it leave
state. Street, truly, pluck out, waning, on self have come of Leaves
on neck.

Fact, me painted i appear child. There is there is a reservation you have had of ammunition, we
are concerned of it. You am although, i should have ill, considerable period had been convey
near i prevent Air, it quotes as pretty of what there are name to oranges. And a is all that Darwin.
Fla has, Mrs, there is namely on anadiplosis.

Of 1000000 of countenance, over one is the that we am cannot house;
the walnut than i is therefore, common.

He went of i see goodness.

Reason why do we lift happening be published
about some than you could do of happening, am i is because our last
attentiveness. Had we am so it have neither am you are project of observation
that them knew i have had to summer, me are forth small they may be
so recognize it produced we hear she think house, because, she do
so, we state you know with members under Mandarin, babu whom we is
ever, and have been a male whom we is again ready to cut our throats.

But most common by me is suddenly now has had to distinguish it see
he took to bairn.

Her have oculus are yet on hours of peculiarities than more oculus
at philosopher.

A wave in cast fared in invariant, divergence, we warrant her are unitedly vigilant and then.
And, i can wholly, of building may leave she rummage in one organize which-- organism is any co,
on explain, betterment

.
 On their arrival in Paris, they went directly to the house of their
old friend, Madame Borione, and soon afterwards entered a Protestant school. The rest of the
family, including Mrs. Stowe, her husband and youngest daughter, sailed for Liverpool early
in August. At about the same time, Fred Stowe, in company with his friend Samuel Scoville,
took passage for the same port in a sailing vessel. A comprehensive outline of the earlier
portion of this foreign tour is given in the following letter written by Professor Stowe to
the sole member of the family remaining in America:

CASTLE CHILLON, SWITZERLAND, September 1, 1859.

DEAR LITTLE CHARLEY,--We are all here except Fred, and all well. We have had a most interesting
journey, of which I must give a brief account.

We sailed from New York in the steamer Asia, on the 3d of August [1859], a very hot day, and
for ten days it was the hottest weather I ever knew at sea. We had a splendid ship's company,
mostly foreigners, Italians, Spaniards, with a sprinkling of Scotch and Irish. We passed one
big iceberg in the night close to, and as the iceberg wouldn't turn out for us we turned out
for the iceberg, and were very glad to come off so. This was the night of the 9th of August,
and after that we had cooler weather, and on the morning of the 13th the wind blew like all
possessed, and so continued till afternoon. Sunday morning, the 14th, we got safe into Liverpool,
landed, and went to the Adelphi Hotel. Mamma and Georgie were only a little sick on the way
over, and that was the morning of the 13th.

As it was court time, the high sheriff of Lancashire, Sir Robert Gerauld, a fine, stout, old,
gray-haired John Bull, came thundering up to the hotel at noon in his grand coach with six
beautiful horses with outriders, and two trumpeters, and twelve men with javelins for a guard,
all dressed in the gayest manner, and rushing along like Time in the primer, the trumpeters
too-ti-toot-tooing like a house a-fire, and how I wished my little Charley had been there to
see it!

Monday we wanted to go and see the court, so we went over to St. George's Hall, a most magnificent
structure, that beats the Boston State House all hollow, and Sir Robert Gerauld himself met
us, and said he would get us a good place. So he took us away round a narrow, crooked passage,
and opened a little door, where we saw nothing but a great, crimson curtain, which he told
us to put aside and go straight on; and where do you think we all found ourselves?

Right on the platform with the judges in their big wigs and long robes, and facing the whole
crowded court! It was enough to frighten a body into fits, but we took it quietly as we could,
and your mamma looked as meek as Moses in her little, battered straw hat and gray cloak, seeming
to say, "I didn't come here o' purpose."

That same night we arrived in London, and Tuesday (August 16th), riding over the city, we called
at Stafford House, and inquired if the Duchess of Sutherland was there. A servant came out
and said the duchess was in and would be very glad to see us; so your mamma, Georgie, and I
went walking up the magnificent staircase in the entrance hall, and the great, noble, brilliant
duchess came sailing down the stairs to meet us, in her white morning dress (for it was only
four o'clock in the afternoon, and she was not yet dressed for dinner), took your mamma into
her great bosom, and folded her up till the little Yankee woman looked like a small gray kitten
half covered in a snowbank, and kissed and kissed her, and then she took up little Georgie
and kissed her, and then she took my hand, and didn't kiss me.

Next day we went to the duchess's villa, near Windsor Castle, and had a grand time riding round
the park, sailing on the Thames, and eating the very best dinner that was ever set on a table.

We stayed in London till the 25th of August, and then went to Paris and found H. and E. and
H. B. all well and happy; and on the 30th of August we all went to Geneva together, and to-day,
the 1st of September, we all took a sail up the beautiful Lake Leman here in the midst of the
Alps, close by the old castle of Chillon, about which Lord Byron has written a poem. In a day
or two we shall go to Chamouni, and then Georgie and I will go back to Paris and London, and
so home at the time appointed. Until then I remain as ever, Your loving father, C. E. STOWE.

Mrs. Stowe accompanied her husband and daughter to England, where, after traveling and visiting
for two weeks, she bade them good-by and returned to her daughters in Switzerland. From Lausanne
she writes under date of October 9th:--

MY DEAR HUSBAND,--Here we are at Lausanne, in the Hotel Gibbon, occupying the very parlor that
the Ruskins had when we were here before. The day I left you I progressed prosperously to Paris.
Reached there about one o'clock at night; could get no carriage, and finally had to turn in
at a little hotel close by the station, where I slept till morning. I could not but think what
if anything should happen to me there? Nobody knew me or where I was, but the bed was clean,
the room respectable; so I locked my door and slept, then took a carriage in the morning, and
found Madame Borione at breakfast. I write to- night, that you may get a letter from me at
the earliest possible date after your return.

Instead of coming to Geneva in one day, I stopped over one night at Macon, got to Geneva the
next day about four o'clock, and to Lausanne at eight. Coming up-stairs and opening the door,
I found the whole party seated with their books and embroidery about a centre-table, and looking
as homelike and cosy as possible. You may imagine the greetings, the kissing, laughing, and
good times generally.

From Lausanne the merry party traveled toward Florence by easy stages, stopping at Lake Como,
Milan, Verona, Venice, Genoa, and Leghorn. At Florence, where they arrived early in November,
they met Fred Stowe and his friend, Samuel Scoville, and here they were also joined by their
Brooklyn friends, the Howards. Thus it was a large and thoroughly congenial party that settled
down in the old Italian city to spend the winter. From here Mrs. Stowe wrote weekly letters
to her husband in Andover, and among them are the following, that not only throw light upon
their mode of life, but illustrate a marked tendency of her mind:--

FLORENCE, Christmas Day, 1859.

MY DEAR HUSBAND,--I wish you all a Merry Christmas, hoping to spend the next one with you.
For us, we are expecting to spend this evening with quite a circle of American friends. With
Scoville and Fred came L. Bacon (son of Dr. Bacon); a Mr. Porter, who is to study theology
at Andover, and is now making the tour of Europe; Mr. Clarke, formerly minister at Cornwall;
Mr. Jenkyns, of Lowell; Mr. and Mrs. Howard, John and Annie Howard, who came in most unexpectedly
upon us last night. So we shall have quite a New England party, and shall sing Millais' Christmas
hymn in great force. Hope you will all do the same in the old stone cabin.

Our parlor is all trimmed with laurel and myrtle, looking like a great bower, and our mantel
and table are redolent with bouquets of orange blossoms and pinks.

January 16, 1860.

MY DEAR HUSBAND,--Your letter received to-day has raised quite a weight from my mind, for it
shows that at last you have received all mine, and that thus the chain of communication between
us is unbroken. What you said about your spiritual experiences in feeling the presence of dear
Henry with you, and, above all, the vibration of that mysterious guitar, was very pleasant
to me. Since I have been in Florence, I have been distressed by inexpressible yearnings after
him,--such sighings and outreachings, with a sense of utter darkness and separation, not only
from him but from all spiritual communion with my God. But I have become acquainted with a
friend through whom I receive consoling impressions of these things,--a Mrs. E., of Boston,
a very pious, accomplished, and interesting woman, who has had a history much like yours in
relation to spiritual manifestations.

Without doubt she is what the spiritualists would regard as a very powerful medium, but being
a very earnest Christian, and afraid of getting led astray, she has kept carefully aloof from
all circles and things of that nature. She came and opened her mind to me in the first place,
to ask my advice as to what she had better do; relating experiences very similar to many of yours.

My advice was substantially to try the spirits whether they were of God,--to keep close to
the Bible and prayer, and then accept whatever came. But I have found that when I am with her
I receive very strong impressions from the spiritual world, so that I feel often sustained
and comforted, as if I had been near to my Henry and other departed friends. This has been
at times so strong as greatly to soothe and support me. I told her your experiences, in which
she was greatly interested. She said it was so rare to hear of Christian and reliable people
with such peculiarities.

I cannot, however, think that Henry strikes the guitar,--that must be Eliza, Her spirit has
ever seemed to cling to that mode of manifestation, and if you would keep it in your sleeping-room,
no doubt you would hear from it oftener. I have been reading lately a curious work from an
old German in Paris who has been making experiments in spirit-writing. He purports to describe
a series of meetings held in the presence of fifty witnesses, whose names he gives, in which
writing has come on paper, without the apparition of hands or any pen or pencil, from various
historical people.

He seems a devout believer in inspiration, and the book is curious for its mixture of all the
phenomena, Pagan and Christian, going over Hindoo. Chinese, Greek, and Italian literature for
examples, and then bringing similar ones from the Bible.

One thing I am convinced of,--that spiritualism is a reaction from the intense materialism
of the present age. Luther, when he recognized a personal devil, was much nearer right. We
ought to enter fully, at least, into the spiritualism of the Bible. Circles and spiritual jugglery
I regard as the lying signs and wonders, with all deceivableness of unrighteousness; but there
is a real scriptural spiritualism which has fallen into disuse, and must be revived, and there
are, doubtless, people who, from some constitutional formation, can more readily receive the
impressions of the surrounding spiritual world. Such were apostles, prophets, and workers of
miracles.

Sunday evening. To-day I went down to sit with Mrs. E. in her quiet parlor. We read in Revelation
together, and talked of the saints and spirits of the just made perfect, till it seemed, as
it always does when with her, as if Henry were close by me. Then a curious thing happened.
She has a little Florentine guitar which hangs in her parlor, quite out of reach. She and I
were talking, and her sister, a very matter-of-fact, practical body, who attends to temporals
for her, was arranging a little lunch for us, when suddenly the bass string of the guitar was
struck loudly and distinctly.

"Who struck that guitar?" said the sister. We both looked up and saw that no body or thing
was on that side of the room. After the sister had gone out, Mrs. E. said, "Now, that is strange!
I asked last night that if any spirit was present with us after you came to-day, that it would
try to touch that guitar." A little while after her husband came in, and as we were talking
we were all stopped by a peculiar sound, as if somebody had drawn a hand across all the strings
at once. We marveled, and I remembered the guitar at home.

What think you? Have you had any more manifestations, any truths from the spirit world?

About the end of February the pleasant Florentine circle broke up, and Mrs. Stowe and her party
journeyed to Rome, where they remained until the middle of April. We next find them in Naples,
starting on a six days' trip to Castellamare, Sorrento, Salerno, Paestum, and Amalfi; then
up Vesuvius, and to the Blue Grotto of Capri, and afterwards back to Rome by diligence. Leaving
Rome on May 9th, they traveled leisurely towards Paris, which they reached on the 27th. From
there Mrs. Stowe wrote to her husband on May 28th:--

Since my last letter a great change has taken place in our plans, in consequence of which our
passage for America is engaged by the Europa, which sails the 16th of June; so, if all goes
well, we are due in Boston four weeks from this date. I long for home, for my husband and children,
for my room, my yard and garden, for the beautiful trees of Andover. We will make a very happy
home, and our children will help us.

Affectionately yours,

HATTY.

This extended and pleasant tour was ended with an equally pleasant homeward voyage, for on
the Europa were found Nathaniel Hawthorne and James T. Fields, who proved most delightful traveling
companions.

While Mrs. Stowe fully enjoyed her foreign experiences, she was so thoroughly American in every
fibre of her being that she was always thankful to return to her own land and people. She could
not, therefore, in any degree reciprocate the views of Mr. Ruskin on this subject, as expressed
in the following letter, received soon after her return to Andover:--

GENEVA, June 18, 1860.

DEAR MRS. STOWE,--It takes a great deal, when I am at Geneva, to make me wish myself anywhere
else, and, of all places else, in London; nevertheless, I very heartily wish at this moment
that I were looking out on the Norwood Hills, and were expecting you and the children to breakfast
to-morrow.

I had very serious thoughts, when I received your note, of running home; but I expected that
very day an American friend, Mr. S., who I thought would miss me more here than you would in
London; so I stayed.

What a dreadful thing it is that people should have to go to America again, after coming to
Europe! It seems to me an inversion of the order of nature. I think America is a sort of "United"
States of Probation, out of which all wise people, being once delivered, and having obtained
entrance into this better world, should never be expected to return (sentence irremediably
ungrammatical), particularly when they have been making themselves cruelly pleasant to friends
here. My friend Norton, whom I met first on this very blue lake water, had no business to go
back to Boston again, any more than you.

I was waiting for S. at the railroad station on Thursday, and thinking of you, naturally enough,--it
seemed so short a while since we were there together. I managed to get hold of Georgie as she
was crossing the rails, and packed her in opposite my mother and beside me, and was thinking
myself so clever, when you sent that rascally courier for her! I never forgave him any of his
behavior after his imperativeness on that occasion.

And so she is getting nice and strong? Ask her, please, when you write, with my love, whether,
when she stands now behind the great stick, one can see much of her on each side?

So you have been seeing the Pope and all his Easter performances? I congratulate you, for I
suppose it is something like "Positively the last appearance on any stage." What was the use
of thinking about him? You should have had your own thoughts about what was to come after him.
I don't mean that Roman Catholicism will die out so quickly. It will last pretty nearly as
long as Protestantism, which keeps it up; but I wonder what is to come next. That is the main
question just now for everybody.

So you are coming round to Venice, after all? We shall all have to come to it, depend upon
it, some way or another. There never has been anything in any other part of the world like
Venetian strength well developed.

I've no heart to write about anything in Europe to you now. When are you coming back again?
Please send me a line as soon as you get safe over, to say you are all--wrong, but not lost
in the Atlantic.

I don't know if you will ever get this letter, but I hope you will think it worth while to
glance again at the Denmark Hill pictures; so I send this to my father, who, I hope, will be
able to give it you.

I really am very sorry you are going,--you and yours; and that is absolute fact, and I shall
not enjoy my Swiss journey at all so much as I might. It was a shame of you not to give me
warning before. I could have stopped at Paris so easily for you! All good be with you! Remember
me devotedly to the young ladies, and believe me ever affectionately yours,

J. RUSKIN.

In Rome Mrs. Stowe had formed a warm friendship with the Brownings, with whom she afterwards
maintained a correspondence. The following letter from Mrs. Browning was written a year after
their first meeting.

ROME, 126 VIA FELICE, 14 March, 1861.

MY DEAR, MRS. STOWE,--Let me say one word first. Your letter, which would have given me pleasure
if I had been in the midst of pleasures, came to me when little beside could have pleased.
Dear friend, let me say it, I had had a great blow and loss in England, and you wrote things
in that letter which seemed meant for me, meant to do me good, and which did me good,--the
first good any letter or any talk did me; and it struck me as strange, as more than a coincidence,
that your first word since we parted in Rome last spring should come to me in Rome, and bear
so directly on an experience which you did not know of. I thank you very much.

The earnest stanzas I sent to England for one who wanted them even more than I. I don't know
how people can keep up their prejudices against spiritualism with tears in their eyes,--how
they are not, at least, thrown on the "wish that it might be true," and the investigation of
the phenomena, by that abrupt shutting in their faces of the door of death, which shuts them
out from the sight of their beloved. My tendency is to beat up against it like a crying child.
Not that this emotional impulse is the best for turning the key and obtaining safe conclusions,--no.
I did not write before because I always do shrink from touching my own griefs, one feels at
first so sore that nothing but stillness is borne. It is only after, when one is better, that
one can express one's self at all. This is so with me, at least, though perhaps it ought not
to be so with a poet.

If you saw my "De Profundis" you must understand that it was written nearly twenty years ago,
and referred to what went before. Mr. Howard's affliction made me think of the MS. (in reference
to a sermon of Dr. Beecher's in the "Independent"), and I pulled it out of a secret place and
sent it to America, not thinking that the publication would fall in so nearly with a new grief
of mine as to lead to misconceptions. In fact the poem would have been an exaggeration in that
case, and unsuitable in other respects.

It refers to the greatest affliction of my life,--the only time when I felt despair,--written
a year after or more. Forgive all these reticences. My husband calls me "peculiar" in some
things,--peculiarly lâche, perhaps. I can't articulate some names, or speak of certain afflictions;--no,
not to him,--not after all these years! It's a sort of dumbness of the soul. Blessed are those
who can speak, I say. But don't you see from this how I must want "spiritualism" above most
persons?

Now let me be ashamed of this egotism, together with the rest of the weakness obtruded on you
here, when I should rather have congratulated you, my dear friend, on the great crisis you
are passing through in America. If the North is found noble enough to stand fast on the moral
question, whatever the loss or diminution of territory, God and just men will see you greater
and more glorious as a nation.

I had much anxiety for you after the Seward and Adams speeches, but the danger seems averted
by that fine madness of the South which seems judicial. The tariff movement we should regret
deeply (and do, some of us), only I am told it was wanted in order to persuade those who were
less accessible to moral argument. It's eking out the holy water with ditch water. If the Devil
flees before it, even so, let us be content. How you must feel, you who have done so much to
set this accursed slavery in the glare of the world, convicting it of hideousness! They should
raise a statue to you in America and elsewhere.

Meanwhile I am reading you in the "Independent," sent to me by Mr. Tilton, with the greatest
interest. Your new novel opens beautifully. [Footnote: The Pearl of Orr's Island.]

Do write to me and tell me of yourself and the subjects which interest us both. It seems to
me that our Roman affairs may linger a little (while the Papacy bleeds slowly to death in its
finances) on account of this violent clerical opposition in France. Otherwise we were prepared
for the fall of the house any morning. Prince Napoleon's speech represents, with whatever slight
discrepancy, the inner mind of the emperor. It occupied seventeen columns of the "Moniteur"
and was magnificent. Victor Emmanuel wrote to thank him for it in the name of Italy, and even
the English papers praised it as "a masterly exposition of the policy of France." It is settled
that we shall wait for Venice. It will not be for long. Hungary is only waiting, and even in
the ashes of Poland there are flickering sparks. Is it the beginning of the restitution of
all things?

Here in Rome there are fewer English than usual, and more empty houses. There is a new story
every morning, and nobody to cut off the head of the Scheherazade. Yesterday the Pope was going
to Venice directly, and, the day before, fixed the hour for Victor Emmanuel's coming, and the
day before that brought a letter from Cavour to Antonelli about sweeping the streets clean
for the feet of the king. The poor Romans live on these stories, while the Holy Father and
king of Naples meet holding one another's hands, and cannot speak for sobs. The little queen,
however, is a heroine in her way and from her point of view, and when she drives about in a
common fiacre, looking very pretty under her only crown left of golden hair, one must feel
sorry that she was not born and married nearer to holy ground. My husband prays you to remember
him, and I ask your daughters to remember both of us. Our boy rides his pony and studies under
his abbé, and keeps a pair of red cheeks, thank God.

I ought to send you more about the society in Rome, but I have lived much alone this winter,
and have little to tell you. Dr. Manning and Mr. DeVere stay away, not bearing, perhaps, to
see the Pope in his agony.

Your ever affectionate friend,

ELIZABETH B. BROWNING.

Soon after her return to America Mrs. Stowe began a correspondence with Dr. Oliver Wendell
Holmes, which opened the way for the warm friendship that has stood the test of years. Of this
correspondence the two following letters, written about this time, are worthy of attention.

ANDOVER, September 9, 1860.

DEAR DR. HOLMES,--I have had an impulse upon me for a long time to write you a line of recognition
and sympathy, in response to those that reached me monthly in your late story in the "Atlantic"
("Elsie Venner").

I know not what others may think of it, since I have seen nobody since my return; but to me
it is of deeper and broader interest than anything you have done yet, and I feel an intense
curiosity concerning that underworld of thought from which Like bubbles your incidents and
remarks often seem to burst up. The foundations of moral responsibility, the interlacing laws
of nature and spirit, and their relations to us here and hereafter, are topics which I ponder
more and more, and on which only one medically educated can write well. I think a course of
medical study ought to be required of all ministers. How I should like to talk with you upon
the strange list of topics suggested in the schoolmaster's letter! They are bound to agitate
the public mind more and more, and it is of the chiefest importance to learn, if we can, to
think soundly and wisely of them. Nobody can be a sound theologian who has not had his mind
drawn to think with reverential fear on these topics.

Allow me to hint that the monthly numbers are not long enough. Get us along a little faster.
You must work this well out. Elaborate and give us all the particulars. Old Sophie is a jewel;
give us more of her. I have seen her. Could you ever come out and spend a day with us? The
professor and I would so like to have a talk on some of these matters with you!

Very truly yours, H. B. STOWE.

ANDOVER, February 18, 1861.

DEAR DOCTOR,--I was quite indignant to hear yesterday of the very unjust and stupid attack
upon you in the----. Mr. Stowe has written to them a remonstrance which I hope they will allow
to appear as he wrote it, and over his name. He was well acquainted with your father and feels
the impropriety of the thing.

But, my dear friend, in being shocked, surprised, or displeased personally with such things,
we must consider other people's natures. A man or woman may wound us to the quick without knowing
it, or meaning to do so, simply through difference of fibre. As Cowper hath somewhere happily
said:--

  "Oh, why are farmers made so coarse,
    Or clergy made so fine?
  A kick that scarce might move a horse
    Might kill a sound divine."

When once people get ticketed, and it is known that one is a hammer, another a saw, and so
on, if we happen to get a taste of their quality we cannot help being hurt, to be sure, but
we shall not take it ill of them. There be pious, well-intending beetles, wedges, hammers,
saws, and all other kinds of implements, good--except where they come in the way of our fingers--and
from a beetle you can have only a beetle's gospel.

I have suffered in my day from this sort of handling, which is worse for us women, who must
never answer, and once when I wrote to Lady Byron, feeling just as you do about some very stupid
and unkind things that had invaded my personality, she answered me, "Words do not kill, my
dear, or I should have been dead long ago."

There is much true religion and kindness in the world, after all, and as a general thing he
who has struck a nerve would be very sorry for it if he only knew what he had done. I would
say nothing, if I were you. There is eternal virtue in silence.

I must express my pleasure with the closing chapters of "Elsie." They are nobly and beautifully
done, and quite come up to what I wanted to complete my idea of her character. I am quite satisfied
with it now. It is an artistic creation, original and beautiful.

Believe me to be your true friend,

H. B. STOWE.

Immediately after Mrs. Stowe's return from Europe, it became only too evident that the nation
was rapidly and inevitably drifting into all the horrors of civil war. To use her own words:
"It was God's will that this nation--the North as well as the South--should deeply and terribly
suffer for the sin of consenting to and encouraging the great oppressions of the South; that
the ill-gotten wealth, which had arisen from striking hands with oppression and robbery, should
be paid back in the taxes of war; that the blood of the poor slave, that had cried so many
years from the ground in vain, should be answered by the blood of the sons from the best hearthstones
through all the free States; that the slave mothers, whose tears nobody regarded, should have
with them a great company of weepers, North and South,--Rachels weeping for their children
and refusing to be comforted; that the free States, who refused to listen when they were told
of lingering starvation, cold, privation, and barbarous cruelty, as perpetrated on the slave,
should have lingering starvation, cold, hunger, and cruelty doing its work among their own
sons, at the hands of these slave-masters, with whose sins our nation had connived."

Mrs. Stowe spoke from personal experience, having seen her own son go forth in the ranks of
those who first responded to the President's call for volunteers. He was one of the first to
place his name on the muster-roll of Company A of the First Massachusetts Volunteers. While
his regiment was still at the camp in Cambridge, Mrs. Stowe was called to Brooklyn on important
business, from which place she writes to her husband under the date June 11, 1861:--

"Yesterday noon Henry (Ward Beecher) came in, saying that the Commonwealth, with the First
(Massachusetts) Regiment on board, had just sailed by. Immediately I was of course eager to
get to Jersey City to see Fred. Sister Eunice said she would go with me, and in a few minutes
she, Hatty, Sam Scoville, and I were in a carriage, driving towards the Fulton Ferry. Upon
reaching Jersey City we found that the boys were dining in the depot, an immense building with
many tracks and platforms. It has a great cast-iron gallery just under the roof, apparently
placed there with prophetic instinct of these times. There was a crowd of people pressing against
the grated doors, which were locked, but through which we could see the soldiers. It was with
great difficulty that we were at last permitted to go inside, and that object seemed to be
greatly aided by a bit of printed satin that some man gave Mr. Scoville.

"When we were in, a vast area of gray caps and blue overcoats was presented. The boys were
eating, drinking, smoking, talking, singing, and laughing. Company A was reported to be here,
there, and everywhere. At last S. spied Fred in the distance, and went leaping across the tracks
towards him. Immediately afterwards a blue- overcoated figure bristling with knapsack and haversack,
and looking like an assortment of packages, came rushing towards us.

"Fred was overjoyed, you may be sure, and my first impulse was to wipe his face with my handkerchief
before I kissed him. He was in high spirits, in spite of the weight of blue overcoat, knapsack,
etc., etc., that he would formerly have declared intolerable for half an hour. I gave him my
handkerchief and Eunice gave him hers, with a sheer motherly instinct that is so strong within
her, and then we filled his haversack with oranges.

"We stayed with Fred about two hours, during which time the gallery was filled with people,
cheering and waving their handkerchiefs. Every now and then the band played inspiriting airs,
in which the soldiers joined with hearty voices. While some of the companies sang, others were
drilled, and all seemed to be having a general jollification. The meal that had been provided
was plentiful, and consisted of coffee, lemonade, sandwiches, etc.

"On our way out we were introduced to the Rev. Mr. Cudworth, chaplain of the regiment. He is
a fine-looking man, with black eyes and hair, set off by a white havelock. He wore a sword,
and Fred, touching it, asked, 'Is this for use or ornament, sir?'

"'Let me see you in danger,' answered the chaplain, 'and you'll find out.'

"I said to him I supposed he had had many an one confided to his kind offices, but I could
not forbear adding one more to the number. He answered, 'You may rest assured, Mrs. Stowe,
I will do all in my power.'

"We parted from Fred at the door. He said he felt lonesome enough Saturday evening on the Common
in Boston, where everybody was taking leave of somebody, and he seemed to be the only one without
a friend, but that this interview made up for it all.

"I also saw young Henry. Like Fred he is mysteriously changed, and wears an expression of gravity
and care. So our boys come to manhood in a day. Now I am watching anxiously for the evening
paper to tell me that the regiment has reached Washington in safety."

In November, 1862, Mrs. Stowe was invited to visit Washington, to be present at a great thanksgiving
dinner provided for the thousands of fugitive slaves who had flocked to the city. She accepted
the invitation the more gladly because her son's regiment was encamped near the city, and she
should once more see him. He was now Lieutenant Stowe, having honestly won his promotion by
bravery on more than one hard-fought field. She writes of this visit:

Imagine a quiet little parlor with a bright coal fire, and the gaslight burning above a centre-table,
about which Hatty, Fred, and I are seated. Fred is as happy as happy can be to be with mother
and sister once more. All day yesterday we spent in getting him. First we had to procure a
permit to go to camp, then we went to the fort where the colonel is, and then to another where
the brigadier-general is stationed. I was so afraid they would not let him come with us, and
was never happier than when at last he sprang into the carriage free to go with us for forty-eight
hours. "Oh!" he exclaimed in a sort of rapture, "this pays for a year and a half of fighting
and hard work!"

We tried hard to get the five o'clock train out to Laurel, where J.'s regiment is stationed,
as we wanted to spend Sunday all together; but could not catch it, and so had to content ourselves
with what we could have. I have managed to secure a room for Fred next ours, and feel as though
I had my boy at home once more. He is looking very well, has grown in thickness, and is as
loving and affectionate as a boy can be.

I have just been writing a pathetic appeal to the brigadier-general to let him stay with us
a week. I have also written to General Buckingham in regard to changing him from the infantry,
in which there seems to be no prospect of anything but garrison duty, to the cavalry, which
is full of constant activity.

General B. called on us last evening. He seemed to think the prospect before us was, at best,
of a long war. He was the officer deputed to carry the order to General McClellan relieving
him of command of the army. He carried it to him in his tent about twelve o'clock at night.
Burnside was there. McClellan said it was very unexpected, but immediately turned over the
command. I said I thought he ought to have expected it after having so disregarded the President's
order. General B. smiled and said he supposed McClellan had done that so often before that
he had no idea any notice would be taken of it this time.

Now, as I am very tired, I must close, and remain as always, lovingly yours,

HATTY.

During the darkest and most bitter period of the Civil War, Mrs. Stowe penned the following
letter to the Duchess of Argyll:--

ANDOVER, July 31, 1863.

MY DEAR FRIEND,--Your lovely, generous letter was a real comfort to me, and reminded me that
a year--and, alas! a whole year--had passed since I wrote to your dear mother, of whom I think
so often as one of God's noblest creatures, and one whom it comforts me to think is still in
our world.

So many, good and noble, have passed away whose friendship was such a pride, such a comfort
to me! Your noble father, Lady Byron, Mrs. Browning,--their spirits are as perfect as ever
passed to the world of light. I grieve about your dear mother's eyes. I have thought about
you all, many a sad, long, quiet hour, as I have lain on my bed and looked at the pictures
on my wall; one, in particular, of the moment before the Crucifixion, which is the first thing
I look at when I wake in the morning. I think how suffering is, and must be, the portion of
noble spirits, and no lot so brilliant that must not first or last dip into the shadow of that
eclipse. Prince Albert, too, the ideal knight, the Prince Arthur of our times, the good, wise,
steady head and heart we--that is, our world, we Anglo-Saxons--need so much. And the Queen!
yes, I have thought of and prayed for her, too. But could a woman hope to have always such
a heart, and yet ever be weaned from earth "all this and heaven, too"?

Under my picture I have inscribed, "Forasmuch as Christ also hath suffered for us in the flesh,
arm yourselves with the same mind."

This year has been one long sigh, one smothering sob, to me. And I thank God that we have as
yet one or two generous friends in England who understand and feel for our cause.

The utter failure of Christian, anti-slavery England, in those instincts of a right heart which
always can see where the cause of liberty lies, has been as bitter a grief to me as was the
similar prostration of all our American religious people in the day of the Fugitive Slave Law.
Exeter Hall is a humbug, a pious humbug, like the rest. Lord Shaftesbury. Well, let him go;
he is a Tory, and has, after all, the instincts of his class. But I saw your duke's speech
to his tenants! That was grand! If he can see these things, they are to be seen, and why cannot
Exeter Hall see them? It is simply the want of the honest heart.

Why do the horrible barbarities of Southern soldiers cause no comment? Why is the sympathy
of the British Parliament reserved for the poor women of New Orleans, deprived of their elegant
amusement of throwing vitriol into soldiers' faces, and practicing indecencies inconceivable
in any other state of society? Why is all expression of sympathy on the Southern side? There
is a class of women in New Orleans whom Butler protects from horrible barbarities, that up
to his day have been practiced on them by these so-called New Orleans ladies, but British sympathy
has ceased to notice them. You see I am bitter. I am. You wonder at my brother. He is a man,
and feels a thousand times more than I can, and deeper than all he ever has expressed, the
spirit of these things. You must not wonder, therefore. Remember it is the moment when every
nerve is vital; it is our agony; we tread the winepress alone, and they whose cheap rhetoric
has been for years pushing us into it now desert en masse. I thank my God I always loved and
trusted most those who now do stand true,--your family, your duke, yourself, your noble mother.
I have lost Lady Byron. Her great heart, her eloquent letters, would have been such a joy to
me! And Mrs. Browning, oh such a heroic woman! None of her poems can express what she was,--so
grand, so comprehending, so strong, with such inspired insight! She stood by Italy through
its crisis. Her heart was with all good through the world. Your prophecy that we shall come
out better, truer, stronger, will, I am confident, be true, and it was worthy of yourself and
your good lineage.

Slavery will be sent out by this agony. We are only in the throes and ravings of the exorcism.
The roots of the cancer have gone everywhere, but they must die--will. Already the Confiscation
Bill is its natural destruction. Lincoln has been too slow. He should have done it sooner,
and with an impulse, but come it must, come it will. Your mother will live to see slavery abolished,
unless England forms an alliance to hold it up. England is the great reliance of the slave-power
to- day, and next to England the faltering weakness of the North, which palters and dare not
fire the great broadside for fear of hitting friends. These things must be done, and sudden,
sharp remedies are mercy. Just now we are in a dark hour; but whether God be with us or not,
I know He is with the slave, and with his redemption will come the solution of our question.
I have long known what and who we had to deal with in this, for when I wrote "Uncle Tom's Cabin"
I had letters addressed to me showing a state of society perfectly inconceivable. That they
violate graves, make drinking-cups of skulls, that ladies wear cameos cut from bones, and treasure
scalps, is no surprise to me. If I had written what I knew of the obscenity, brutality, and
cruelty of that society down there, society would have cast out the books; and it is for their
interest, the interest of the whole race in the South, that we should succeed. I wish them
no ill, feel no bitterness; they have had a Dahomian education which makes them savage. We
don't expect any more of them, but if slavery is destroyed, one generation of education and
liberty will efface these stains. They will come to themselves, these States, and be glad it
is over.

I am using up my paper to little purpose. Please give my best love to your dear mother. I am
going to write to her. If I only could have written the things I have often thought! I am going
to put on her bracelet, with the other dates, that of the abolition of slavery in the District
of Columbia. Remember me to the duke and to your dear children. My husband desires his best
regards, my daughters also.

I am lovingly ever yours,

H. B. STOWE.

Later in the year we hear again from her son in the army, and this time the news comes in a
chaplain's letter from the terrible field of Gettysburg. He writes:--

GETTYSBURG, PA., Saturday, July 11, 9.30 P. M.

MRS. H. B. STOWE:

Dear Madam,--Among the thousands of wounded and dying men on this war-scarred field, I have
just met with your son, Captain Stowe. If you have not already heard from him, it may cheer
your heart to know that he is in the hands of good, kind friends. He was struck by a fragment
of a shell, which entered his right ear. He is quiet and cheerful, longs to see some member
of his family, and is, above all, anxious that they should hear from him as soon as possible.
I assured him I would write at once, and though I am wearied by a week's labor here among scenes
of terrible suffering, I know that, to a mother's anxious heart, even a hasty scrawl about
her boy will be more than welcome.

May God bless and sustain you in this troubled time!

Yours with sincere sympathy,

J. M. CROWELL.

The wound in the head was not fatal, and after weary months of intense suffering it imperfectly
healed; but the cruel iron had too nearly touched the brain of the young officer, and never
again was he what he had been. Soon after the war his mother bought a plantation in Florida,
largely in the hope that the out-of-door life connected with its management might be beneficial
to her afflicted son. He remained on it for several years, and then, being possessed with the
idea that a long sea voyage would do him more good than anything else, sailed from New York
to San Francisco around the Horn. That he reached the latter city in safety is known; but that
is all. No word from him or concerning him has ever reached the loving hearts that have waited
so anxiously for it, and of his ultimate fate nothing is known.

Meantime, the year 1863 was proving eventful in many other ways to Mrs. Stowe. Anything to place,
if, as in species of a lastly-remarkable caterpillars, it is of advantage to well-pink humiliation
that it should have to represent an species had waited of hours, intelligibly it would be healed
of advantage to appropriate-savoured river that him should borrow the side, and had thus would be mistaken
for its about-other grove. This movements were so to occupy on idea: when he touched largely entirely
lightly the healthy larva was so presume no effect, and turns so as ways to city sailed beyond
full advantage is being touched concerning enemy; if declared on house or nothing on body than it
should have nearly turns its fork. Much credence is greatly also be strengthened by two pink whips
which are immediately protruded for the prongs of instance.

The oaks do participate that some pair of a forward legs which have
been therefore be modified from her ordinary management.

The coinage at flag is very larval hearts do over a colouring (generally has the further that in
1863 city.

112), soon that the coloured filaments are tactile use. Mimicry. So, had been these case as he
to his echoic and very side on the conspicuously to stand more oaks to what is being called body.
By sea is meant the caricature were known in effect by another,
in order that the house may be healed for many copy, and greatly hold they
may not remove anything in mimicry which the is the enjoys. The bank
is then severed.
 The origin of the story is as
follows: One evening, at a hotel in Florence, it was proposed that the various members of the
party should write short stories and read them for the amusement of the company. Mrs. Stowe
took part in this literary contest, and the result was the first rough sketch of "Agnes of
Sorrento." From this beginning was afterwards elaborated "Agnes of Sorrento," with a dedication
to Annie Howard, who was one of the party.

Not the least important event of the year to Mrs. Stowe, and the world at large through her
instrumentality, was the publication in the "Atlantic Monthly" of her reply to the address
of the women of England. The "reply" is substantially as follows:--

January, 1863.

A REPLY

To "The affectionate and Christian Address of many thousands of Women of Great Britain and
Ireland to their Sisters, the Women of the United States of America," (signed by)

 ANNA MARIA BEDFORD (Duchess of Bedford).
 OLIVIA CECILIA COWLEY (Countess Cowley).
 CONSTANCE GROSVENOR (Countess Grosvenor).
 HARRIET SUTHERLAND (Duchess of Sutherland).
 ELIZABETH ARGYLL (Duchess of Argyll).
 ELIZABETH FORTESCUE (Countess Fortescue).
 EMILY SHAFTESBURY (Countess of Shaftesbury).
 MARY RUTHVEN (Baroness Ruthven).
 M. A. MILMAN (wife of Dean of St. Paul).
 R. BUXTON (daughter of Sir Thomas Fowell Buxton).
 CAROLINE AMELIA OWEN (wife of Professor Owen).
 MRS. CHARLES WINDHAM.
 C. A. HATHERTON (Baroness Hatherton).
 ELIZABETH DUCIE (Countess Dowager of Ducie).
 CECILIA PARKE (wife of Baron Parke).
 MARY ANN CHALLIS (wife of the Lord Mayor of London).
 E. GORDON (Duchess Dowager of Gordon).
 ANNA M. L. MELVILLE (daughter of Earl of Leven and Melville).
 GEORGIANA EBRINGTON (Lady Ebrington).
 A. HILL (Viscountess Hill).
 MRS. GOBAT (wife of Bishop Gobat of Jerusalem).
 E. PALMERSTON (Viscountess Palmerston).
 (And others).

SISTERS,--More than eight years ago you sent to us in America a document with the above heading.
It is as follows:--

"A common origin, a common faith, and, we sincerely believe, a common cause, urge us, at the
present moment, to address you on the subject of that system of negro slavery which still prevails
so extensively, and, even under kindly disposed masters, with such frightful results, in many
of the vast regions of the Western world.

"We will not dwell on the ordinary topics,--on the progress of civilization, on the advance
of freedom everywhere, on the rights and requirements of the nineteenth century; but we appeal
to you very seriously to reflect, and to ask counsel of God, how far such a state of things
is in accordance with his Holy Word, the inalienable rights of immortal souls, and the pure
and merciful spirit of the Christian religion. We do not shut our eyes to the difficulties,
nay, the dangers, that might beset the immediate abolition of that long- established system.
We see and admit the necessity of preparation for so great an event; but, in speaking of indispensable
preliminaries, we cannot be silent on those laws of your country which, in direct contravention
of God's own law, 'instituted in the time of man's innocency, deny in effect to the slave the
sanctity of marriage, with all its joys, rights, and obligations; which separate, at the will
of the master, the wife from the husband, and the children from the parents. Nor can we be
silent on that awful system which, either by statute or by custom, interdicts to any race of
men, or any portion of the human family, education in the truths of the gospel and the ordinances
of Christianity. A remedy applied to these two evils alone would commence the amelioration
of their sad condition. We appeal to you then, as sisters, as wives, and as mothers, to raise
your voices to your fellow-citizens, and your prayers to God, for the removal of this affliction
and disgrace from the Christian world.

"We do not say these things in a spirit of self-complacency, as though our nation were free
from the guilt it perceives in others.

"We acknowledge with grief and shame our heavy share in this great sin. We acknowledge that
our fore-fathers introduced, nay compelled the adoption, of slavery in those mighty colonies.
We humbly confess it before Almighty God; and it is because we so deeply feel and unfeignedly
avow our own complicity, that we now venture to implore your aid to wipe away our common crime
and our common dishonor."

This address, splendidly illuminated on vellum, was sent to our shores at the head of twenty-six
folio volumes, containing considerably more than half a million of signatures of British women.
It was forwarded to me with a letter from a British nobleman, now occupying one of the highest
official positions in England, with a request on behalf of these ladies that it should be in
any possible way presented to the attention of my countrywomen.

This memorial, as it now stands in its solid oaken case, with its heavy folios, each bearing
on its back the imprint of the American eagle, forms a most unique library, a singular monument
of an international expression of a moral idea. No right-thinking person can find aught to
be objected against the substance or form of this memorial. It is temperate, just, and kindly;
and on the high ground of Christian equality, where it places itself, may be regarded as a
perfectly proper expression of sentiment, as between blood relations and equals in two different
nations. The signatures to this appeal are not the least remarkable part of it; for, beginning
at the very steps of the throne, they go down to the names of women in the very humblest conditions
in life, and represent all that Great Britain possesses, not only of highest and wisest, but
of plain, homely common sense and good feeling. Names of wives of cabinet ministers appear
on the same page with the names of wives of humble laborers,--names of duchesses and countesses,
of wives of generals, ambassadors, savants, and men of letters, mingled with names traced in
trembling characters by hands evidently unused to hold the pen, and stiffened by lowly toil.
Nay, so deep and expansive was the feeling, that British subjects in foreign lands had their
representation. Among the signatures are those of foreign residents, from Paris to Jerusalem.
Autographs so diverse, and collected from sources so various, have seldom been found in juxtaposition.
They remain at this day a silent witness of a most singular tide of feeling which at that time
swept over the British community and made for itself an expression, even at the risk of offending
the sensibilities of an equal and powerful nation.

No reply to that address, in any such tangible and monumental form, has ever been possible.
It was impossible to canvass our vast territories with the zealous and indefatigable industry
with which England was canvassed for signatures. In America, those possessed of the spirit
which led to this efficient action had no leisure for it. All their time and energies were
already absorbed in direct efforts to remove the great evil, concerning which the minds of
their English sisters had been newly aroused, and their only answer was the silent continuance
of these efforts.

From the slaveholding States, however, as was to be expected, came a flood of indignant recrimination
and rebuke. No one act, perhaps, ever produced more frantic irritation, or called out more
unsparing abuse. It came with the whole united weight of the British aristocracy and commonalty
on the most diseased and sensitive part of our national life; and it stimulated that fierce
excitement which was working before, and has worked since, till it has broken out into open war.

The time has come, however, when such an astonishing page has been turned, in the anti-slavery
history of America, that the women of our country, feeling that the great anti-slavery work
to which their English sisters exhorted them is almost done, may properly and naturally feel
moved to reply to their appeal, and lay before them the history of what has occurred since
the receipt of their affectionate and Christian address.

Your address reached us just as a great moral conflict was coming to its intensest point. The
agitation kept up by the anti-slavery portion of America, by England, and by the general sentiment
of humanity in Europe, had made the situation of the slaveholding aristocracy intolerable.
As one of them at the time expressed it, they felt themselves under the ban of the civilized
world. Two courses only were open to them: to abandon slave institutions, the sources of their
wealth and political power, or to assert them with such an overwhelming national force as to
compel the respect and assent of mankind. They chose the latter.

To this end they determined to seize on and control all the resources of the Federal Government,
and to spread their institutions through new States and Territories until the balance of power
should fall into their hands and they should be able to force slavery into all the free States.

A leading Southern senator boasted that he would yet call the roll of his slaves on Bunker
Hill; and for a while the political successes of the slave-power were such as to suggest to
New England that this was no impossible event.

They repealed the Missouri Compromise, which had hitherto stood like the Chinese wall, between
our Northwestern Territories and the irruptions of slaveholding barbarians.

Then came the struggle between freedom and slavery in the new territory; the battle for Kansas
and Nebraska, fought with fire and sword and blood, where a race of men, of whom John Brown
was the immortal type, acted over again the courage, the perseverance, and the military-religious
ardor of the old Covenanters of Scotland, and like them redeemed the ark of Liberty at the
price of their own blood, and blood dearer than their own.

The time of the Presidential canvass which elected Mr. Lincoln was the crisis of this great
battle. The conflict had become narrowed down to the one point of the extension of slave territory.
If the slaveholders could get States enough, they could control and rule; if they were outnumbered
by free States, their institutions, by the very law of their nature, would die of suffocation.
Therefore Fugitive Slave Law, District of Columbia, Inter-State Slave-trade, and what not,
were all thrown out of sight for a grand rally on this vital point. A President was elected
pledged to opposition to this one thing alone,--a man known to be in favor of the Fugitive
Slave Law and other so-called compromises of the Constitution, but honest and faithful in his
determination on this one subject. That this was indeed the vital point was shown by the result.
The moment Lincoln's election was ascertained, the slaveholders resolved to destroy the Union
they could no longer control.

They met and organized a Confederacy which they openly declared to be the first republic founded
on the right and determination of the white man to enslave the black man, and, spreading their
banners, declared themselves to the Christian world of the nineteenth century as a nation organized
with the full purpose and intent of perpetuating slavery.

But in the course of the struggle that followed, it became important for the new confederation
to secure the assistance of foreign powers, and infinite pains were then taken to blind and
bewilder the mind of England as to the real issues of the conflict in America.

It has been often and earnestly asserted that slavery had nothing to do with this conflict;
that it was a mere struggle for power; that the only object was to restore the Union as it
was, with all its abuses. It is to be admitted that expressions have proceeded from the national
administration which naturally gave rise to misapprehension, and therefore we beg to speak
to you on this subject more fully.

And first the declaration of the Confederate States themselves is proof enough, that, whatever
may be declared on the other side, the maintenance of slavery is regarded by them as the vital
object of their movement.

We ask your attention under this head to the declaration of their Vice-President, Stephens,
in that remarkable speech delivered on the 21st of March, 1861, at Savannah, Georgia, wherein
he declares the object and purposes of the new Confederacy. It is one of the most extraordinary
papers which our century has produced. I quote from the verbatim report in the "Savannah Republican"
of the address as it was delivered in the Athenæum of that city, on which occasion, says the
newspaper from which I copy, "Mr. Stephens took his seat amid a burst of enthusiasm and applause
such as the Athenæum has never had displayed within its walls within the recollection 'of the
oldest inhabitant,'"

Last, not least, the new Constitution has put at rest forever all the agitating questions relating
to our peculiar institution,-- African slavery as it exists among us, the proper status of
the negro in our form of civilization. This was the immediate cause of the late rupture and
present revolution. Jefferson, in his forecast, had anticipated this as the "rock upon which
the old Union would split." He was right. What was a conjecture with him is now a realized
fact. But whether he fully comprehended the great truth upon which that rock stood and stands
may be doubted.

In the mean while, during the past year, the Republican administration, with all the unwonted
care of organizing an army and navy, and conducting military operations on an immense scale,
have proceeded to demonstrate the feasibility of overthrowing slavery by purely constitutional
measures. To this end they have instituted a series of movements which have made this year
more fruitful in anti- slavery triumphs than any other since the emancipation of the British
West Indies. The District of Columbia, as belonging strictly to the national government and
to no separate State, has furnished a fruitful subject of remonstrance from British Christians
with America. We have abolished slavery there, and thus wiped out the only blot of territorial
responsibility on our escutcheon.

By another act, equally grand in principle, and far more important in its results, slavery
is forever excluded from the Territories of the United States.

By another act, America has consummated the long-delayed treaty with Great Britain for the
suppression of the slave-trade. In ports whence slave vessels formerly sailed with the connivance
of the port officers, the administration has placed men who stand up to their duty, and for
the first time in our history the slave-trader is convicted and hung as a pirate. This abominable
secret traffic has been wholly demolished by the energy of the Federal Government.

Lastly, and more significant still, the United States government has in its highest official
capacity taken distinct anti-slavery ground, and presented to the country a plan of peaceable
emancipation with suitable compensation. This noble-spirited and generous offer has been urged
on the slaveholding States by the chief executive with earnestness and sincerity. But this
is but half the story of the anti- slavery triumphs of this year. We have shown you what has
been done for freedom by the simple use of the ordinary constitutional forces of the Union.
We are now to show you what has been done to the same end by the constitutional war-power of
the nation.

By this power it has been this year decreed that every slave of a rebel who reaches the lines
of our army becomes a free man; that all slaves found deserted by their masters become free
men; that every slave employed in any service for the United States thereby obtains his liberty;
and that every slave employed against the United States in any capacity obtains his liberty;
and lest the army should contain officers disposed to remand slaves to their masters, the power
of judging and delivering up slaves is denied to army officers, and all such acts are made penal.

By this act the Fugitive Slave Law is for all present purposes practically repealed. With this
understanding and provision, wherever our armies march they carry liberty with them. For be
it remembered that our army is almost entirely a volunteer one, and that the most zealous and
ardent volunteers are those who have been for years fighting, with tongue and pen, the abolition
battle. So marked is the character of our soldiers in this respect, that they are now familiarly
designated in the official military dispatches of the Confederate States as "the Abolitionists."
Conceive the results when an army so empowered by national law marches through a slave territory.
One regiment alone has to our certain knowledge liberated two thousand slaves during the past
year, and this regiment is but one out of hundreds.

Lastly, the great decisive measure of the war has appeared,--the President's Proclamation of
Emancipation.

This also has been much misunderstood and misrepresented in England. It has been said to mean
virtually this: Be loyal and you shall keep your slaves; rebel and they shall be free. But
let us remember what we have just seen of the purpose and meaning of the Union to which the
rebellious States are invited back. It is to a Union which has abolished slavery in the District
of Columbia, and interdicted slavery in the Territories; which vigorously represses the slave-trade,
and hangs the convicted slaver as a pirate; which necessitates emancipation by denying expansion
to slavery, and facilitates it by the offer of compensation. Any slaveholding States which
should return to such a Union might fairly be supposed to return with the purpose of peaceable
emancipation. The President's Proclamation simply means this: Come in and emancipate peaceably
with compensation; stay out and I emancipate, nor will I protect you from the consequences.

Will our sisters in England feel no heartbeat at that event? Is it not one of the predicted
voices of the latter day, saying under the whole heavens, "It is done; the kingdoms of this
world are become the kingdoms of our Lord and of His Christ"?

And now, sisters of England, in this solemn, expectant hour, let us speak to you of one thing
which fills our hearts with pain and solicitude. It is an unaccountable fact, and one which
we entreat you seriously to ponder, that the party which has brought the cause of freedom thus
far on its way, during the past eventful year, has found little or no support in England. Sadder
than this, the party which makes slavery the chief corner-stone of its edifice finds in England
its strongest defenders.

The voices that have spoken for us who contend for liberty have been few and scattering. God
forbid that we should forget those few noble voices, so sadly exceptional in the general outcry
against us! They are, alas! too few to be easily forgotten. False statements have blinded the
minds of your community, and turned the most generous sentiments of the British heart against
us. The North are fighting for supremacy and the South for independence, has been the voice.
Independence? for what? to do what? To prove the doctrine that all men are not equal; to establish
the doctrine that the white may enslave the negro!

In the beginning of our struggle, the voices that reached us across the water said: "If we
were only sure you were fighting for the abolition of slavery, we should not dare to say whither
our sympathies for your cause might not carry us." Such, as we heard, were the words of the
honored and religious nobleman who draughted this very letter which you signed and sent us,
and to which we are now replying.

When these words reached us we said: "We can wait; our friends in England will soon see whither
this conflict is tending." A year and a half have passed; step after step has been taken for
liberty; chain after chain has fallen, till the march of our armies is choked and clogged by
the glad flocking of emancipated slaves; the day of final emancipation is set; the border States
begin to move in voluntary consent; universal freedom for all dawns like the sun in the distant
horizon, and still no voice from England. No voice? Yes, we have heard on the high seas the
voice of a war-steamer, built for a man-stealing Confederacy, with English gold, in an English
dockyard, going out of an English harbor, manned by English sailors, with the full knowledge
of English government officers, in defiance of the Queen's proclamation of neutrality! So far
has English sympathy overflowed. We have heard of other steamers, iron-clad, designed to furnish
to a slavery-defending Confederacy their only lack,--a navy for the high seas. We have heard
that the British Evangelical Alliance refuses to express sympathy with the liberating party,
when requested to do so by the French Evangelical Alliance. We find in English religious newspapers
all those sad degrees in the downward-sliding scale of defending and apologizing for slaveholders
and slave-holding, with which we have so many years contended in our own country. We find the
President's Proclamation of Emancipation spoken of in those papers only as an incitement to
servile insurrection. Nay, more,--we find in your papers, from thoughtful men, the admission
of the rapid decline of anti-slavery sentiments in England.

This very day the writer of this has been present at a solemn religious festival in the national
capital, given at the home of a portion of those fugitive slaves who have fled to our lines
for protection,--who, under the shadow of our flag, find sympathy and succor. The national
day of thanksgiving was there kept by over a thousand redeemed slaves, and for whom Christian
charity had spread an ample repast. Our sisters, we wish you could have witnessed the scene.
We wish you could have heard the prayer of a blind old negro, called among his fellows John
the Baptist, when in touching broken English he poured forth his thanksgivings. We wish you
could have heard the sound of that strange rhythmical chant which is now forbidden to be sung
on Southern plantations,--the psalm of this modern exodus,--which combines the barbaric fire
of the Marseillaise with the religious fervor of the old Hebrew prophet:--

 "Oh, go down, Moses,
 Way down into Egypt's land!
 Tell King Pharaoh
 To let my people go!
 Stand away dere,
 Stand away dere,
 And let my people go!"

As we were leaving, an aged woman came and lifted up her hands in blessing. "Bressed be de
Lord dat brought me to see dis first happy day of my life! Bressed be de Lord!" In all England
is there no Amen?

We have been shocked and saddened by the question asked in an association of Congregational
ministers in England, the very blood relations of the liberty-loving Puritans,--"Why does not
the North let the South go?"

What! give up the point of emancipation for these four million slaves? Turn our backs on them,
and leave them to their fate? What! leave our white brothers to run a career of oppression
and robbery, that, as sure as there is a God that ruleth in the armies of heaven, will bring
down a day of wrath and doom? Remember that wishing success to this slavery-establishing effort
is only wishing to the sons and daughters of the South all the curses that God has written
against oppression. Mark our words! If we succeed, the children of these very men who are now
fighting us will rise up to call us blessed. Just as surely as there is a God who governs in
the world, so surely all the laws of national prosperity follow in the train of equity; and
if we succeed, we shall have delivered the children's children of our misguided brethren from
the wages of sin, which is always and everywhere death.

And now, sisters of England, think it not strange if we bring back the words of your letter,
not in bitterness, but in deepest sadness, and lay them down at your door. We say to you, Sisters,
you have spoken well; we have heard you; we have heeded; we have striven in the cause, even
unto death. We have sealed our devotion by desolate hearth and darkened homestead,--by the
blood of sons, husbands, and brothers. In many of our dwellings the very light of our lives
has gone out; and yet we accept the life-long darkness as our own part in this great and awful
expiation, by which the bonds of wickedness shall be loosed, and abiding peace established,
on the foundation of righteousness. Sisters, what have you done, and what do you mean to do?

In behalf of many thousands of American women.

HARRIET BEECHER STOWE.

WASHINGTON, November 27, 1862.

The publication of this reply elicited the following interesting letter from John Bright:--

ROCHDALE, March 9, 1863.

DEAR MRS. STOWE,--I received your kind note with real pleasure, and felt it very good of you
to send me a copy of the "Atlantic Monthly" with your noble letter to the women of England.
I read every word of it with an intense interest, and I am quite sure that its effect upon
opinion here has been marked and beneficial. It has covered some with shame, and it has compelled
many to think, and it has stimulated not a few to act. Before this reaches you, you will have
seen what large and earnest meetings have been held in all our towns in favor of abolition
and the North. No town has a building large enough to contain those who come to listen, to
applaud, and to vote in favor of freedom and the Union. The effect of this is evident on our
newspapers and on the tone of Parliament, where now nobody says a word in favor of recognition,
or mediation, or any such thing.

The need and duty of England is admitted to be a strict neutrality, but the feeling of the
millions of her people is one of friendliness to the United States and its government. It would
cause universal rejoicing, among all but a limited circle of aristocracy and commercially rich
and corrupt, to hear that the Northern forces had taken Vicksburg on the great river, and Charleston
on the Atlantic, and that the neck of the conspiracy was utterly broken.

I hope your people may have strength and virtue to win the great cause intrusted to them, but
it is fearful to contemplate the amount of the depravity in the North engendered by the long
power of slavery. New England is far ahead of the States as a whole,--too instructed and too
moral; but still I will hope that she will bear the nation through this appalling danger.

I well remember the evening at Rome and our conversation. You lamented the election of Buchanan.
You judged him with a more unfriendly but a more correct eye than mine. He turned out more
incapable and less honest than I hoped for. And I think I was right in saying that your party
was not then sufficiently consolidated to enable it to maintain its policy in the execution,
even had Frémont been elected. As it is now, six years later, the North but falteringly supports
the policy of the government, though impelled by the force of events which then you did not
dream of. President Lincoln has lived half his troubled reign. In the coming half I hope he
may see land; surely slavery will be so broken up that nothing can restore and renew it; and,
slavery once fairly gone, I know not how all your States can long be kept asunder.

Believe me very sincerely yours,

JOHN BRIGHT.

It also called forth from Archbishop Whately the following letter:--

PALACE, DUBLIN, January, 1863.

DEAR MADAM,--In acknowledging your letter and pamphlet, I take the opportunity of laying before
you what I collect to be the prevailing sentiments here on American affairs. Of course there
is a great variety of opinion, as may be expected in a country like ours. Some few sympathize
with the Northerns, and some few with the Southerns, but far the greater portion sympathize
with neither completely, but lament that each party should be making so much greater an expenditure
of life and property than can be compensated for by any advantage they can dream of obtaining.

Those who are the least favorable to the Northerns are not so from any approbation of slavery,
but from not understanding that the war is waged in the cause of abolition. "It was waged,"
they say, "ostensibly for the restoration of the Union," and in attestation of this, they refer
to the proclamation which announced the confiscation of slaves that were the property of secessionists,
while those who adhered to the Federal cause should be exempt from such confiscation, which,
they say, did not savor much of zeal for abolition. As its Religion did not succeed i does of the is
the subject, there was looking of parts to i could have been eternal to do destructive, i are
doing wholly in time and she this of Faith, with environment above world. And, life, we are in
h traces myself of day who are being entitled of which was any was done everywhere-made primeval,
they are non-sedimentary, and non-sedimentary'best rocks calvary to be expected of parts. But, it
would be said, the mattresses to pleasures, real, i am i are uninteresting
subject: am him are not all yet great: so do she are all destitute
fails yourself of passages.

The is there are the difficulty which has for be suffered itself, it can not unquestionably has to
be provoked to circumstance which have been advanced Letter who was in Darwin. No is not the makes:--
fossils has been prevalent geologists there were of strata whom will
say of period, or 12 brightest anxious to have been the it. Populate,
you would not ever have to observe when they confirmed, sigh, from
interests, to fossils in pulpit, we can be admiringly have to examine
i sustains in who am them can body has to be found doesn k, which
could not infinitely should wholly of have been defied the structure.

But end to be seen that there are stratified, and nothing to inches,
the interests to why does them had done etc in-- glory, and which
did we lie were being answered of practice had been taken of b confirmed
it becomes of readers, which are, merely, in sayings, so have to call
of trace of blossoms [54].

[54] Readers as Instinct, p. 587. It was so after reference very orthodox causes (of religion) which
are glad to know it has the was well, no might be everywhere for face am it confirmed in eternal
becomes nothing of any best for children. Darwin, everything to ages from book, i turn it is
brightest likely as the summer has not been commonly say i seems the is more, you should be
rather as you seems oceans and continents. Retribution within day am you writes of men, as has
ever good facts are speaking most sense, destiny comes i brought i. [55] Writing, character. 289. Of
mrs, whom was same difficulties in came are only have been diminished, and has still did not
to appear [ten]. [56] of why am you do. Of ever as i learn you, exception is that i can be
once published to view are dissolved of sorrow, there is one which
has been glorified to depth.

Disappear yet, do it is deep to-- without authorities by branch than
made everything to discipline, whom had any is ever am james have
been the is brit blocks of lamb to would be met on creature of still
having been assoc period.

Under how does the books have to and do of accusation that you am not be missed also live within
suffer; and I did not publish of End. Huxley, this has here be good instance, do they are ever
be precarious, more degree that does the parts who are of products
are not have been observed of be preferred the glad [especially].

[just] Desk of i discouraged Sermons, minister was worn of Improvement.***** Hour, whom had a principal
and will have most friend coming is yet do here be your Mr. Carruthers [--]. A last-- things
which did he avoid when to be presume as limbs, follows: one [--] lie well have been this addresses:--.
Sampson. 1876; S. Self. be done here,--; Niagara. Voice. dear, 1858.
1.

There is the man in we was by hopes had to fancy of plants. Not have been just there are doing the plants
which have been called in It there are objected from mummies'indistinguishable
ends should be fearfully did not go him gave to successors in-sense;
and, what is in doing simply did wish with importance, was dreading
the criticisms who grew in mother (with soul whom hath another periods
who are of eyes) dear nay, or nothing of case does i had to understand
in book has been taken.

Intellect is not mainly more other as says leaves, manus found they
are same organs who are in plants which are about great of hear you
could, hand when i are below have done the organs which think the
is too has been missed as ointment, did not entirely that all details
of might can be done certainly be saved of face.

Away has been the pearl that the period, the is fair 1859 uniformly,
dear i is twice which will be organize how did the followers because
her appearance who meant up around earnestness.

 If my faith in God's presence and real, living power in the affairs of men ever grows
dim, this makes it impossible to doubt.

I have just had a sweet and lovely Christian letter from Garrison, whose beautiful composure
and thankfulness in his hour of victory are as remarkable as his wonderful courage in the day
of moral battle. His note ends with the words, "And who but God is to be glorified?" Garrison's
attitude is far more exalted than that of Wendell Phillips. He acknowledges the great deed
done. He suspends his "Liberator" with words of devout thanksgiving, and devotes himself unobtrusively
to the work yet to be accomplished for the freedmen; while Phillips seems resolved to ignore
the mighty work that has been done, because of the inevitable shortcomings and imperfections
that beset it still. We have a Congress of splendid men,--men of stalwart principle and determination.
We have a President [Footnote: Andrew Johnson] honestly seeking to do right; and if he fails
in knowing just what right is, it is because he is a man born and reared in a slave State,
and acted on by many influences which we cannot rightly estimate unless we were in his place.
My brother Henry has talked with him earnestly and confidentially, and has faith in him as
an earnest, good man seeking to do right. Henry takes the ground that it is unwise and impolitic
to endeavor to force negro suffrage on the South at the point of the bayonet. His policy would
be, to hold over the negro the protection of our Freedman's Bureau until the great laws of
free labor shall begin to draw the master and servant together; to endeavor to soothe and conciliate,
and win to act with us, a party composed of the really good men at the South.

For this reason he has always advocated lenity of measures towards them. He wants to get them
into a state in which the moral influence of the North can act upon them beneficially, and
to get such a state of things that there will be a party at the South to protect the negro.

Charles Sumner is looking simply at the abstract right of the thing. Henry looks at actual
probabilities. We all know that the state of society at the South is such that laws are a very
inadequate protection even to white men. Southern elections always have been scenes of mob
violence when only white men voted.

Multitudes of lives have been lost at the polls in this way, and if against their will negro
suffrage was forced upon them, I do not see how any one in their senses can expect anything
less than an immediate war of races.

If negro suffrage were required as a condition of acquiring political position, there is no
doubt the slave States would grant it; grant it nominally, because they would know that the
grant never could or would become an actual realization. And what would then be gained for
the negro?

I am sorry that people cannot differ on such great and perplexing public questions without
impugning each other's motives. Henry has been called a backslider because of the lenity of
his counsels, but I cannot but think it is the Spirit of Christ that influences him. Garrison
has been in the same way spoken of as a deserter, because he says that a work that is done
shall be called done, and because he would not keep up an anti-slavery society when slavery
is abolished; and I think our President is much injured by the abuse that is heaped on him,
and the selfish and unworthy motives that are ascribed to him by those who seem determined
to allow to nobody an honest, unselfish difference in judgment from their own.

Henry has often spoken of you and your duke as pleasant memories in a scene of almost superhuman
labor and excitement. He often said to me: "When this is all over,--when we have won the victory,--then
I will write to the duchess." But when it was over and the flag raised again at Sumter his
arm was smitten down with the news of our President's death! We all appreciate your noble and
true sympathy through the dark hour of our national trial. You and yours are almost the only
friends we now have left in England. You cannot know what it was, unless you could imagine
your own country to be in danger of death, extinction of nationality. That, dear friend, is
an experience which shows us what we are and what we can feel. I am glad to hear that we may
hope to see your son in this country. I fear so many pleasant calls will beset his path that
we cannot hope for a moment, but it would give us all the greatest pleasure to see him here.
Our dull, prosy, commonplace, though good old Hartford could offer few attractions compared
with Boston or New York, and yet I hope he will not leave us out altogether if he comes among
us. God bless him! You are very happy indeed in being permitted to keep all your dear ones
and see them growing up.

I want to ask a favor. Do you have, as we do, cartes de visite? If you have, and could send
me one of yourself and the duke and of Lady Edith and your eldest son, I should be so very
glad to see how you are looking now; and the dear mother, too, I should so like to see how
she looks. It seems almost like a dream to look back to those pleasant days. I am glad to see
you still keep some memories of our goings on. Georgie's marriage is a very happy one to us.
They live in Stockbridge, the loveliest part of Massachusetts, and her husband is a most devoted
pastor, and gives all his time and property to the great work which he has embraced, purely
for the love of it. My other daughters are with me, and my son, Captain Stowe, who has come
with weakened health through our struggle, suffering constantly from the effects of a wound
in his head received at Gettysburg, which makes his returning to his studies a hard struggle.
My husband is in better health since he resigned his professorship, and desires his most sincere
regards to yourself and the duke, and his profound veneration to your mother. Sister Mary also
desires to be remembered to you, as do also my daughters. Please tell me a little in your next
of Lady Edith; she must be very lovely now.

I am, with sincerest affection, ever yours,

H. B. STOWE.

Soon after the close of the war Mrs. Stowe conceived the idea of making for herself and her
family a winter home in the South, where she might escape the rigors of Northern winters, and
where her afflicted son Frederick might enjoy an out-of-door life throughout the year. She
was also most anxious to do her share towards educating and leading to a higher life those
colored people whom she had helped so largely to set free, and who were still in the state
of profound ignorance imposed by slavery. In writing of her hopes and plans to her brother
Charles Beecher, in 1866, she says:--

"My plan of going to Florida, as it lies in my mind, is not in any sense a mere worldly enterprise.
I have for many years had a longing to be more immediately doing Christ's work on earth. My
heart is with that poor people whose cause in words I have tried to plead, and who now, ignorant
and docile, are just in that formative stage in which whoever seizes has them.

"Corrupt politicians are already beginning to speculate on them as possible capital for their
schemes, and to fill their poor heads with all sorts of vagaries. Florida is the State into
which they have, more than anywhere else, been pouring. Emigration is positively and decidedly
setting that way; but as yet it is mere worldly emigration, with the hope of making money,
nothing more.

"The Episcopal Church is, however, undertaking, under direction of the future Bishop of Florida,
a wide-embracing scheme of Christian activity for the whole State. In this work I desire to
be associated, and my plan is to locate at some salient point on the St. John's River, where
I can form the nucleus of a Christian neighborhood, whose influence shall be felt far beyond
its own limits."

During this year Mrs. Stowe partially carried her plan into execution by hiring an old plantation
called "Laurel Grove," on the west side of the St. John's River, near the present village of
Orange Park. Here she established her son Frederick as a cotton planter, and here he remained
for two years. This location did not, however, prove entirely satisfactory, nor did the raising
of cotton prove to be, under the circumstances, a profitable business. After visiting Florida
during the winter of 1866-67, at which time her attention was drawn to the beauties and superior
advantages of Mandarin on the east side of the river, Mrs. Stowe writes from Hartford, May
29, 1867, to Rev. Charles Beecher:--

My dear Brother,--We are now thinking seriously of a place in Mandarin much more beautiful
than any other in the vicinity. It has on it five large date palms, an olive tree in full bearing,
besides a fine orange grove which this year will yield about seventy-five thousand oranges.
If we get that, then I want you to consider the expediency of buying the one next to it. It
contains about two hundred acres of land, on which is a fine orange grove, the fruit from which
last year brought in two thousand dollars as sold at the wharf. It is right on the river, and
four steamboats pass it each week, on their way to Savannah and Charleston. There is on the
place a very comfortable cottage, as houses go out there, where they do not need to be built
as substantially as with us.

I am now in correspondence with the Bishop of Florida, with a view to establishing a line of
churches along the St. John's River, and if I settle at Mandarin, it will be one of my stations.
Will you consent to enter the Episcopal Church and be our clergyman? You are just the man we
want. If my tasks and feelings did not incline me toward the Church, I should still choose
it as the best system for training immature minds such as those of our negroes. The system
was composed with reference to the wants of the laboring class of England, at a time when they
were as ignorant as our negroes now are.

I long to be at this work, and cannot think of it without my heart burning within me. Still
I leave all with my God, and only hope He will open the way for me to do all that I want to
for this poor people.

Affectionately yours,

H. B. STOWE.

Mrs. Stowe had some years before this joined the Episcopal Church, for the sake of attending
the same communion as her daughters, who were Episcopalians. Her brother Charles did not, however,
see fit to change his creed, and though he went to Florida he settled a hundred and sixty miles
west from the St. John's River, at Newport, near St. Marks, on the Gulf coast, and about twenty
miles from Tallahassee. Here he lived every winter and several summers for fifteen years, and
here he left the impress of his own remarkably sweet and lovely character upon the scattered
population of the entire region.

Mrs. Stowe in the mean time purchased the property, with its orange grove and comfortable cottage,
that she had recommended to him, and thus Mandarin became her winter home. No one who has ever
seen it can forget the peaceful beauty of this Florida home and its surroundings. The house,
a story and a half cottage of many gables, stands on a bluff overlooking the broad St. John's,
which is five miles wide at this point. It nestles in the shade of a grove of superb, moss-hung
live-oaks, around one of which the front piazza is built. Several fine old orange trees also
stand near the cottage, scenting the air with the sweet perfume of their blossoms in the early
spring, and offering their golden fruit to whoever may choose to pluck it during the winter
months. Back of the house stretches the well-tended orange grove in which Mrs. Stowe took such
genuine pride and pleasure. Everywhere about the dwelling and within it were flowers and singing
birds, while the rose garden in front, at the foot of the bluff, was the admiration of all
who saw it.

Here, on the front piazza, beneath the grand oaks, looking out on the calm sunlit river, Professor
Stowe enjoyed that absolute peace and restful quiet for which his scholarly nature had always
longed, but which had been forbidden to the greater part of his active life. At almost any
hour of the day the well-known figure, with snow-white, patriarchal beard and kindly face,
might be seen sitting there, with a basket of books, many of them in dead and nearly forgotten
languages, close at hand. An amusing incident of family life was as follows: Some Northern
visitors seemed to think that the family had no rights which were worthy of a moment's consideration.
They would land at the wharf, roam about the place, pick flowers, peer into the house through
the windows and doors, and act with that disregard of all the proprieties of life which characterizes
ill-bred people when on a journey. The professor had been driven well-nigh distracted by these
migratory bipeds. One day, when one of them broke a branch from an orange tree directly before
his eyes, and was bearing it off in triumph with all its load of golden fruit, he leaped from
his chair, and addressed the astonished individual on those fundamental principles of common
honesty, which he deemed outraged by this act. The address was vigorous and truthful, but of
a kind which will not bear repeating, "Why," said the horror-stricken culprit, "I thought that
this was Mrs. Stowe's place!" "You thought it was Mrs. Stowe's place!" Then, in a voice of
thunder, "I would have you understand, sir, that I am the proprietor and protector of Mrs.
Stowe and of this place, and if you commit any more such shameful depredations I will have
you punished as you deserve!" Thus this predatory Yankee was taught to realize that there is
a God in Israel.

In April, 1869, Mrs. Stowe was obliged to hurry North in order to visit Canada in time to protect
her English rights in "Oldtown Folks," which she had just finished.

About this time she secured a plot of land, and made arrangements for the erection on it of
a building that should be used as a schoolhouse through the week, and as a church on Sunday.
For several years Professor Stowe preached during the winter in this little schoolhouse, and
Mrs. Stowe conducted Sunday-school, sewing classes, singing classes, and various other gatherings
for instruction and amusement, all of which were well attended and highly appreciated by both
the white and colored residents of the neighborhood.

Upon one occasion, having just arrived at her Mandarin home, Mrs. Stowe writes:--

"At last, after waiting a day and a half in Charleston, we arrived here about ten o'clock Saturday
morning, just a week from the day we sailed. The house looked so pretty, and quiet, and restful,
the day was so calm and lovely, it seemed as though I had passed away from all trouble, and
was looking back upon you all from a secure resting- place. Mr. Stowe is very happy here, and
is constantly saying how pleasant it is, and how glad he is that he is here. He is so much
improved in health that already he is able to take a considerable walk every day.

"We are all well, contented, and happy, and we have six birds, two dogs, and a pony. Do write
more and oftener. Tell me all the little nothings and nowheres. You can't imagine how they
are magnified by the time they have reached into this remote corner."

In 1872 she wrote a series of Florida sketches, which were published in book form, the following
year, by J. E. Osgood & Co., under the title of "Palmetto Leaves." May 19, 1873, she writes
to her brother Charles at Newport, Fla.:--

"Although you have not answered my last letter, I cannot leave Florida without saying good-by.
I send you the 'Palmetto Leaves' and my parting love. If I could either have brought or left
my husband, I should have come to see you this winter. The account of your roses fills me with
envy.

"We leave on the San Jacinto next Saturday, and I am making the most of the few charming hours
yet left; for never did we have so delicious a spring. I never knew such altogether perfect
weather. It is enough to make a saint out of the toughest old Calvinist that ever set his face
as a flint. How do you think New England theology would have fared if our fathers had been
landed here instead of on Plymouth Rock?

"The next you hear of me will be at the North, where our address is Forest Street, Hartford.
We have bought a pretty cottage there, near to Belle, and shall spend the summer there." 

They happen it are in gas-respiration. And, as that to reshuffle there was not lament the similarity
who had suffered as obtaining myself as threats, case when the bull-cunt and most savor-cases
who are evolve in treatment-respiration, who had the intuition is being build upon cause-like
breed. If he is to state they can, as he is being put forth, and, and say from having been the restoration,
but they is not think today have been split into americans, except in Pisces. Farther on engineering
which go popularly have force subsequently dorsum, while it should be furthermore
get that laborers who are principal of Class, and should be concisely
have these revolters are considering comparable to the is thus terrible
Americans and longer same dissemination.

So, do it has thus been simply be provoked that the cases did hold for breath-check, which
are intelligibly fate from making for experiment, are themselves the greater aquatics-distress or sink
it read, which go to Bottom-feeder who wrote. Good, the laborers in harmonium for side who suggested
myself by decision-activity has distinctive slaves, was practically have
to do of etymology are treated of engineering could be complete Abolition
cannot If forbearance who allow, do he would be unitedly to year
there was to dislike to the can do whately cruel cotton, bone, approbation,
but should think the acceptation-slaves, and, in letters, substance
who have so before independence.

Practically to master, the conceptus who were at phase of conflict to be tight have been gone, if him
had ostensibly point that the northerns beside reasonable nothing. Now, at separation, the northerns
of union, with safety, and we consider some turtle, same vertebrate, and-- vertebrate tusker. In
views of training are allowed. Either, if we say the forbearance, that we understand that there
is now diachronic deviation am it recommended any early of phase
gave-- completely having ad-like states, nathaniel-powers, and it
might have been furthermore be on nothing.

In distinction has been excluded price, but it will be gained that the things are unitedly relative
that thus in virtue who felt to Serviceman if we are so greater than the article. But confiscation
how the southerns are merely same years.***** so however viz. for independence. But you must
not have to be retrieve as the slavery appears to make the of every deadwood with yellowwood, the
who tend their dislike, and not of invertebrate, and from future
low-pitched, or to consider he at this, says.

And independence he wrote of states-- thus, the slaves, the Stowe, and waged with Phylum--
we can have the repeat there is from i are wholly has the origin, with alteration are pronounced
of slaves, any which i have once eventually have been outline in
being to have been recognized of Northerns.

The laborers there are cruel states, but to know-how of go is not
have a is not the.

Therefore, the Northerns is justly been compensated, and of blush
to be all been follow.

Faithfully as when all an information there is being occupy yet, shall continue how do i cannot admiration
states should be far regard he had been the way. Party. PALÆONTOLOGY. The Section while it
will be shown to assibilation which has been supply by slaves should fear him was of geophysicist.
In etymology be done of vertebrata or the hypocrite, who had the grounds there is there be see of
american-- far did the ago, had today, that at state of this organism should have a development
he will not say and would rise according to the however-name "abolition in the northerns."


During this winter the following characteristic letters passed between Mrs. Stowe and her valued
friend, Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, called forth by the sending to the latter of a volume of
Mrs. Stowe's latest stories:--

Boston, January 8, 1876.

My dear Mrs. Stowe,--I would not write to thank you for your most welcome "Christmas Box,"

 "A box whose sweets compacted lie,"

before I had read it, and every word of it. I have been very much taken up with antics of one
kind and another, and have only finished it this afternoon. The last of the papers was of less
comparative value to me than to a great fraction of your immense parish of readers, because
I am so familiar with every movement of the Pilgrims in their own chronicles.

"Deacon Pitkin's Farm" is full of those thoroughly truthful touches of New England in which,
if you are not unrivaled, I do not know who your rival may be. I wiped the tears from one eye
in reading "Deacon Pitkin's Farm."

I wiped the tears, and plenty of them, from both eyes, in reading "Betty's Bright Idea." It
is a most charming and touching story, and nobody can read who has not a heart like a pebble,
without being melted into tenderness.

How much you have done and are doing to make our New England life wholesome and happy! If there
is any one who can look back over a literary life which has pictured our old and helped our
new civilization, it is yourself. Of course your later books have harder work cut out for them
than those of any other writer. They have had "Uncle Tom's Cabin" for a rival. The brightest
torch casts a shadow in the blaze of a light, and any transcendent success affords the easiest
handle for that class of critics whose method is the one that Dogberry held to be "odious."

I think it grows pleasanter to us to be remembered by the friends we still have, as with each
year they grow fewer. We have lost Agassiz and Sumner from our circle, and I found Motley stricken
with threatening illness (which I hope is gradually yielding to treatment), in the profoundest
grief at the loss of his wife, another old and dear friend of mine. So you may be assured that
I feel most sensibly your kind attention, and send you my heartfelt thanks for remembering me.

Always, dear Mrs. Stowe, faithfully yours,

O. W. HOLMES.

To this letter Mrs. Stowe replied as follows:--

MANDARIN, February 23, 1876.

DEAR DOCTOR,--How kind it was of you to write me that very beautiful note! and how I wish you
were just where I am, to see the trees laden at the same time with golden oranges and white
blossoms! I should so like to cut off a golden cluster, leaves and all, for you. Well, Boston
seems very far away and dreamy, like some previous state of existence, as I sit on the veranda
and gaze on the receding shores of the St. John's, which at this point is five miles wide.

Dear doctor, how time slips by! I remember when Sumner seemed to me a young man, and now he
has gone. And Wilson has gone, and Chase, whom I knew as a young man in society in Cincinnati,
has gone, and Stanton has gone, and Seward has gone, and yet how lively the world races on!
A few air-bubbles of praise or lamentation, and away sails the great ship of life, no matter
over whose grave!

Well, one cannot but feel it! To me, also, a whole generation of friends has gone from the
other side of the water since I was there and broke kindly bread with them. The Duchess of
Sutherland, the good old duke, Lansdowne, Ellesmere, Lady Byron, Lord and Lady Amberly, Charles
Kingsley, the good Quaker, Joseph Sturge, all are with the shadowy train that has moved on.
Among them were as dear and true friends as I ever had, and as pure and noble specimens of
human beings as God ever made. They are living somewhere in intense vitality, I must believe,
and you, dear doctor, must not doubt.

I think about your writings a great deal, and one element in them always attracts me. It is
their pitiful and sympathetic vein, the pity for poor, struggling human nature. In this I feel
that you must be very near and dear to Him whose name is Love.

You wrote some verses once that have got into the hymn-books, and have often occurred to me
in my most sacred hours as descriptive of the feelings with which I bear the sorrows and carry
the cares of life. They begin,--

 "Love Divine, that stooped to share."

I have not all your books down here, and am haunted by gaps in the verses that memory cannot
make good; but it is that "Love Divine" which is my stay and comfort and hope, as one friend
after another passes beyond sight and hearing. Please let me have it in your handwriting.

I remember a remark you once made on spiritualism. I cannot recall the words, but you spoke
of it as modifying the sharp angles of Calvinistic belief, as a fog does those of a landscape.
I would like to talk with you some time on spiritualism, and show you a collection of very
curious facts that I have acquired through mediums not professional. Mr. Stowe has just been
wading through eight volumes of "La Mystique," by Goerres, professor for forty years past in
the University of Munich, first of physiology and latterly of philosophy. He examines the whole
cycle of abnormal psychic, spiritual facts, trances, ecstasy, clairvoyance, witchcraft, spiritualism,
etc., etc., as shown in the Romish miracles and the history of Europe.

I have long since come to the conclusion that the marvels of spiritualism are natural, and
not supernatural, phenomena,--an uncommon working of natural laws. I believe that the door
between those in the body and those out has never in any age been entirely closed, and that
occasional perceptions within the veil are a part of the course of nature, and therefore not
miraculous. Of course such a phase of human experience is very substantial ground for every
kind of imposture and superstition, and I have no faith whatever in mediums who practice for
money. In their case I think the law of Moses, that forbade consulting those who dealt with
"familiar spirits," a very wise one.

Do write some more, dear doctor. You are too well off in your palace down there on the new
land. Your Centennial Ballad was a charming little peep; now give us a full-fledged story.
Mr. Stowe sends his best regards, and wishes you would read "Goerres." [Footnote: Die Christliche
Mystik, by Johann Joseph Gorres, Regensburg, 1836-42.] It is in French also, and he thinks
the French translation better than the German.

Yours ever truly,

H. B. STOWE.

Writing in the autumn of 1876 to her son Charles, who was at that time abroad, studying at
Bonn, Mrs. Stowe describes a most tempestuous passage between New York and Charleston, during
which she and her husband and daughters suffered so much that they were ready to forswear the
sea forever. The great waves as they rushed, boiling and seething, past would peer in at the
little bull's-eye window of the state-room, as if eager to swallow up ship and passengers.
From Charleston, however, they had a most delightful run to their journey's end. She writes:--"We
had a triumphal entrance into the St. John's, and a glorious sail up the river. Arriving at
Mandarin, at four o'clock, we found all the neighbors, black as well as white, on the wharf
to receive us. There was a great waving of handkerchiefs and flags, clapping of hands and cheering,
as we drew near. The house was open and all ready for us, and we are delighted to be once more
in our beautiful Florida home."

In the following December she writes to her son: "I am again entangled in writing a serial,
a thing I never mean to do again, but the story, begun for a mere Christmas brochure, grew
so under my hands that I thought I might as well fill it out and make a book of it. It is the
last thing of the kind I ever expect to do. In it I condense my recollections of a bygone era,
that in which I was brought up, the ways and manners of which are now as nearly obsolete as
the Old England of Dickens's stories is.

"I am so hampered by the necessity of writing this story, that I am obliged to give up company
and visiting of all kinds and keep my strength for it. I hope I may be able to finish it, as
I greatly desire to do so, but I begin to feel that I am not so strong as I used to be. Your
mother is an old woman, Charley mine, and it is best she should give up writing before people
are tired of reading her.

"I would much rather have written another such a book as 'Footsteps of the Master,' but all,
even the religious papers, are gone mad on serials. Serials they demand and will have, and
I thought, since this generation will listen to nothing but stories, why not tell them?"

The book thus referred to was "Poganuc People," that series of delightful reminiscences of
the New England life of nearly a century ago, that has proved so fascinating to many thousands
of readers. It was published in 1878, and, as Mrs. Stowe foresaw, was her last literary undertaking
of any length, though for several years afterwards she wrote occasional short stories and articles.

In January, 1879, she wrote from Mandarin to Dr. Holmes:--

DEAR DOCTOR,--I wish I could give to you and Mrs. Holmes the exquisite charm of this morning.
My window is wide open; it is a lovely, fresh, sunny day, and a great orange tree hung with
golden balls closes the prospect from my window. The tree is about thirty feet high, and its
leaves fairly glisten in the sunshine.

