"Nowhere in the first chapter of Genesis, which is the true or spiritual creation, does the
Lord God create anything; it is only after that mist (spoken of in the 6th verse of chapter
two) arose from the earth that the Lord God formed the dust or material man, or anything else.
Then the mystery of this seeming second creator, the Lord God, and his creation or forming
of this dust or material man and material world must lie within this mist, and it does; this
mist that arose was simply a misapprehension that arose amongst the people, wherein they believed
themselves to be formed of dust or materially, whereas in truth they were created spiritually.
And this Lord God spoken of that formed the dust man is not the real creator, the true God,
but is man himself, who, through his own false idea or belief, formed man of dust, in other
words, by his misapprehension of his true nature, man thinks himself material, when, in reality,
he is spiritual, and it is through this mistake that all this evil or materiality seems to
exist. But it is no more real than the dust man, and gets its seeming reality in the same way
through a delusion or misapprehension of the truth. The proof that evil is not real, does not
exist, and was never made, is contained in the Bible. Then everything that really exists is
good, it cannot be otherwise. Our God, our Creator, could not make both good and evil, else
He would not be perfect, for evil is an imperfection and an imperfection can have no principle,
hence no reality. Evil has the same reality that a lie has. What becomes of a lie when the
truth is declared? It ceases to exist; so with evil; it being unreal, it ceases to exist, when
Good is declared. Oh, if we could only do this, there surely would be no evil. Do we obey this
greatest command of our Master? No. For instead of loving God, we fear Him, and lay every evil
that befalls us at His door. If there be a cyclone, a flood, a cloudburst, a railroad disaster,
a conflagration, an earthquake, an epidemic, we say it is the will of God. Oftentimes we labor
long and faithfully to accomplish a desired result, and just as we think we have success in
our hands, we fail, and all our hopes and desires are destroyed; again we say, it is the will
of God. If we see any of our brethren sick, we claim it to be the will of God. If we see the
father of a family taken away, we bow our heads and say God's will be done. If we see a family
of children left motherless, again we bow our heads and say God's will be done. If we see a
beautiful infant snatched by death from the breast of it's heart-broken mother, we meekly bow
again, and, with heart full of sorrow, say, it's the will of God. I tell you it is not the
will of God, the will of Good. There is no good in it, hence not of God's making, but is the
work of evil, or devil, in other words, the work of a delusion, the believing of a lie. And
when we stand meekly by and see evil destroy our health, our hopes, our happiness, our homes,
without a protest, we are abetting the devil in his work. The Bible says God gave man dominion
over all the earth, so rise in the might of your intelligence, your Mind, and destroy this
evil, this illusion, this lie, with the sword of truth, in Christ's name. God, Good, is with
you in this work, and with Him for you, who can stand against you? Too long has man been robbed
by evil in the name of good. Jesus Christ said: 'Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall
make you free.' This truth has been revealed and is in our midst; 'seek and ye shall find.'
St. John, the most beloved disciple, said: 'God is Love.