We were not long quiet.  Burris had a detachment raiding in the neighborhood of Independence.
We struck their camp at sunset.  We were thirty-two; they eighty-four; but we were sure shots
and one volley broke their ranks in utter confusion.  Five fell at the first fire, and seven
more died in the chase, the others regaining Independence, where the presence of the rest of
the regiment saved them.  That day my persistent pistol practice showed its worth when one
of the militiamen fell, 71 yards away, actual measure. That was Nov. 10, 1861.

All that winter Independence was the scene of a bloody warfare.  One day early in February
Capt. Quantrell and David Pool, Bill Gregg and George Shepherd, George Todd and myself, charged
in pairs down three of the streets to the court house, other members of the company coming
through other streets.  We had eleven hurt, but we got away with ammunition and other supplies
that were badly needed.  Seven militiamen died that day.

Another charge, at daybreak of Feb. 21, resulted badly.  Instead of the one company we expected
to find, there were four.  Although we killed seventeen, we lost one, young George, who fell
so close to the guns of the foe that we had considerable difficulty in getting him away for
burial. Then we disbanded for a time.  Capt. Quantrell believed that it was harder to trail
one man than a company, and every little while the company would break up, to rally again at
a moment’s notice.

4. THE TRAP THAT FAILED

In March Quantrell planned to attack Independence. We met at David George’s and went from there
toward Independence as far as Little Blue church, where Allen Parmer, who afterward married
Susie James, the sister of Frank and Jesse, told the captain that instead of there being 300
Jayhawkers in Independence, there were 600.  The odds were too strong, and we swung around
to the southwest.

Thirteen soldiers who guarded the bridge at the Big Blue found their number unlucky.  The bridge
was burned and we dined that day at the home of Alex. Majors, of Russell, Majors & Waddell,
the freighters, and rested for the night at Maj. Tale’s house, near New Santa Fe, where there
was fighting for sure before morning.

A militia command, 300 strong, came out to capture us, but they did not risk an attack until
nearly midnight.

Capt. Quantrell, John Jarrette, and I were sleeping together when the alarm was given, the
sentry’s challenge, “Who are you?” followed by a pistol shot.

We were up on the instant.

So stealthy had been their approach that they had cut the sentry off from us before alarming
him, and he fled into the timber in a shower of lead.

There was a heavy knock on the outer door, and a deep voice shouted: “Make a light.”

Quantrell, listening within, fired through the panel. The visitor fell.

While we barricaded the windows with bedding, the captain polled his men. “Boys,” he said,
“we’re in a tight place.  We can’t stay here and I do not mean to surrender.  All who want
to follow me out can say so; all who prefer to give up without a rush can also say so. I will
do the best I can for them.”

Four voted to surrender, and went out to the besieging party, leaving seventeen.

Quantrell, James Little, Hoy, Stephen Shores and myself held the upper story, Jarrette, George
Shepherd, Toler and others the lower.

Anxious to see who their prisoners were, the militiamen exposed themselves imprudently, and
it cost them six.

Would they permit Major Tate’s family to escape?  Yes.  They were only too glad, for with the
family out, the ell, which was not commanded by our fire, offered a tempting mark for the incendiary.

Hardly had the Tales left than the flames began to climb the ell.

There was another parley.  Could we have twenty minutes?  Ten?  Five?

Back came the answer:

“You have one minute.  If at its expiration you have not surrendered, not a single man among
you shall escape alive.”

“Thank you,” said I; “catching comes before hanging.”

“Count six then and be d—d to you!” shouted back George Shepherd, who was doing the dickering,
and Quantrell said quietly, “Shotguns to the front.”

There were six of these, and behind them came those with revolvers only. Then Quantrell opened
the door and leaped out.  Close behind him were Jarrette, Shepherd, Toler, Little, Hoy and
myself, and behind us the revolvers.

In less time than it takes to tell it, the rush was over.  We had lost five, Hoy being knocked
down with a musket and taken prisoner, while they had eighteen killed and twenty-nine wounded.
We did not stop till we got to the timber, but there was really no pursuit.  The audacity of
the thing had given the troops a taste of something new.

They kept Hoy at Leavenworth for several months and then hanged him. This was the inevitable
end of a “guerrilla” when taken prisoner.

5. VENGEANCE INDEED

Among the Jackson county folks who insisted on their right to shelter their friends was an
old man named Blythe.

Col. Peabody at Independence had sent out a scouting party to find me or any one else of the
company they could “beat up.”  Blythe was not at home when they came but his son, aged twelve,
was.  They took him to the barn and tried to find out where we were, but the little fellow
baffled them until he thought he saw a chance to break through the guard, and started for the
house.

He reached it safely, seized a pistol, and made for the woods followed by a hail of bullets.
They dropped him in his tracks, but, game to the last, he rolled over as he fell, shot one
of his pursuers dead, mortally wounded a second, and badly hurt a third.

They put seventeen bullets in him before he could shoot a fourth time.

A negro servant who had witnessed the seizure of his young master, had fled for the timber,
and came upon a party of a dozen of us, including Quantrell and myself.  As he quickly told
us the story, we made our plans, and ambushed at the “Blue Cut,” a deep pass on the road the
soldiers must take back to Independence.  The banks are about thirty feet high, and the cut
about fifty yards wide.

Not a shot was to be fired until the entire command was in the cut.

Thirty-eight had started to “round up” Cole Younger that morning; seventeen of them lay dead
in the cut that night and the rest of them had a lively chase into Independence.

To this day old residents know the Blue Cut as “the slaughter-pen.”

Early in May, 1862, Quantrell’s men were disbanded for a month.  Horses were needed, and ammunition.
There were plenty of horses in Missouri, but the ammunition presented more of a problem.

Capt. Quantrell, George Todd and myself, attired as Union officers, went to Hamilton, a small
town on the Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad, undetected by the company of the Seventh United
States Cavalry in camp there, although we put up at the principal hotel.  Todd passed as a
major in the Sixth Missouri Cavalry, Quantrell a major in the Ninth, and I a captain in an
Illinois regiment.  At Hannibal there was a regiment of Federal soldiers.  The commander talked
very freely with us about Quantrell, Todd, Haller, Younger, Blunt, Pool and other guerrillas
of whom he had heard.

While in Hannibal we bought 50,000 revolver caps and such other ammunition as we needed.  From
there we went to St. Joseph, which was under command of Col. Harrison B. Branch.

“Too many majors traveling together are like too many roses in a bouquet,” suggested Todd.
“The other flowers have no show.”

He reduced himself to captain and I to lieutenant.

Our disguise was undiscovered.  Col. Branch entertained us at his headquarters most hospitably.

