The bark, anchored alone in the harbour of Antonina, was hid from the town in the darkness
of a night that might well have covered the blackest of tragedies. My pirates thought their
opportunity had surely come to capture the Aquidneck, and this they undertook to do. The ringleader
of the gang was a burly scoundrel, whose boast was that he had "licked" both the mate and second
mate of the last vessel he had sailed in, and had "busted the captain in the jaw" when they
landed in Rio, where the vessel was bound, and where, of course, the captain had discharged
him. It was there the villain shipped with me, in lieu of one of the Rosario gang who had been
kindly taken in charge by the guard at Ilha Grande and brought to Rio to be tried before the
American Consul for insubordination. Said he, one day when I urged him to make haste and help
save the topsails in a squall, "Oh, I'm no soft-horn to be hurried!" It was the time the bark
lost her topgallant-mast and was cast on her beam-ends on the voyage to Antonina, already told;
it was, in fact, no time for loafing, and this braggart at a decisive word hurried aloft with
the rest to do his duty. What I said to him was meant for earnest, and it cowed him. It is
only natural to think that he held a grudge against me forever after, and waited only for his
opportunity; knowing, too, that I was the owner of the bark, and supposed to have money. He
was heard to say in a rum-mill a day or two before the attack that he would find the ---- money
and his life, too. His chum and bosom friend had come pretty straight from Palermo penitentiary
at Buenos Aires when he shipped with me at Rosario.

It was no secret on board the bark that he had served two years for robbing, and cutting a
ranchman's throat from ear to ear. These records, which each seemed to glory in, were verified
in both cases.

I met the captain afterwards who had been "busted in the jaw"--Captain Roberts, of Baltimore,
a quiet gentleman, with no evil in his heart for any one, and a man, like myself, well along
in years.

Two of the gang, old Rosario hands, had served for the lesser offence of robbery alone--they
brought up in the rear! The other two of my foremast hands--one a very respectable Hollander,
the other a little Japanese sailor, a bright, young chap--had been robbed and beaten by the
four ruffians, and then threatened so that they deserted to the forest instead of bringing
a complaint of the matter to me, for fear, as the Jap expressed it afterwards, when there was
no longer any danger,--for fear the "la-la-long mans (thieves) would makee killo mi!"

The ringleader bully had made unusual efforts to create a row when I came on board early in
the evening; however, as he had evidently been drinking, I passed it off as best I could for
the natural consequence of rum, and ordered him forward; instead of doing as he was bid, when
I turned to hand my wife to the cabin he followed me threateningly to the break of the poop.
What struck me most, however, was the conduct of his chum, who was sober, but in a very unusual,
high, gleeful mood. It was knock-off time when I came along to where he was seizing off the
mizzen topgallant backstay, the last of the work of refitting the late pampeiro damage; and
the mate being elsewhere engaged, I gave the usual order to quit work. "Knock off," I said
to the man, "and put away your tools. The bark's rigging looks well," I added, "and if to-morrow
turns out fine, all will be finished"; whereupon the fellow laughed impertinently in my face,
repeating my words, "All will be finished!" under his breath, adding, "before to-morrow!" This
was the first insult offered by the "Bloodthirsty Tommy," who had committed murder only a short
time before; but I had been watched by the fellow, with a cat-like eye at every turn.

The full significance of his words on this occasion came up to me only next morning, when I
saw him lying on the deck with a murderous weapon in his hand! I was not expecting a cowardly,
night attack, nevertheless I kept my gun loaded. I went to sleep this night as usual, forgetting
the unpleasant episode as soon as my head touched the pillow; but my wife, with finer instincts,
kept awake. It was well for us all that she did so. Near midnight, my wife, who had heard the
first footstep on the poop-deck, quietly wakened me, saying, "We must get up, and look out
for ourselves! Something is going wrong on deck; the boat tackle has been let go with a great
deal of noise, and--O! don't go that way on deck. I heard some one on the cabin steps, and
heard whispering in the forward entry."

"You must have been dreaming," I said.

"No, indeed!" said she; "I have not been asleep yet; don't go on deck by the forward companionway;
they are waiting there, I am sure, for I heard the creaking of the loose step in the entry."

If my wife has not been dreaming, thought I, there can be no possible doubt of a plot.

Nothing justifies a visit on the poop-deck after working-hours, except a call to relieve sickness,
or for some other emergency, and then secrecy or stealth is non-permissible.

It may be here explained to persons not familiar with ships, that the sailors' quarters are
in the forward part of the ship where they (the sailors) are supposed to be found after working-hours,
in port, coming never abaft the mainmast; hence the term "before the mast."

My first impulse was to step on deck in the usual way, but the earnest entreaties of my wife
awoke me to a danger that should be investigated with caution. Arming myself, therefore, with
a stout carbine repeater, with eight ball cartridges in the magazine, I stepped on deck abaft
instead of forward, where evidently I had been expected. I stood rubbing my eyes for a moment,
inuring them to the intense darkness, when a coarse voice roared down the forward companionway
to me to come on deck. "Why don't ye come on deck like a man, and order yer men forid?" was
the salute that I got, and was the first that I heard with my own ears, and it was enough.
To tell the whole story in a word, I knew that I had to face a mutiny.

I could do no less than say: "Go forward there!"

"Yer there, are ye?" said the spokesman, as with an oath, he bounded toward me, cursing as he came.

Again I ordered him forward, saying, "I am armed,--if you come here I will shoot!" But I forbore
to do so instantly, thinking to club him to the deck instead, for my carbine was a heavy one.
I dealt him a blow as he came near, sufficient I thought, to fell an ox; but it had, apparently,
no effect, and instantly he was inside of my guard. Then grasping me by the throat, he tried
to force me over the taffrail, and cried, exultingly, as he felt me give way under his brute
strength, "Now, you damn fool, shoot!" at the same time drawing his knife to strike.

I could not speak, or even breathe, but my carbine spoke for me, and the ruffian fell with
the knife in his hand which had been raised against me! Resolution had proved more than a match
for brute force, for I then knew that not only my own life but also the lives of others depended
on me at this moment. Nothing daunted, the rest came on, like hungry wolves. Again I cried,
"Go forward!" But thinking, maybe, that my rifle was a single shooter, or that I could not
load it so quickly, the order was disregarded.

"What if I don't go forward?" was "Bloody Tommy's" threatening question, adding, as he sprang
toward me, "I've got this for you!" but fell instantly as he raised his hand; and there on
the deck was ended his misadventure! and like the other he fell with the deadly knife in his
hand. I was now all right. The dread of cold steel had left me when I freed myself from the
first would-be assassin, and I only wondered how many more would persist in trying to take
my life. But recollecting there were only two mutineers left, and that I had still six shots
in the magazine of my rifle, and one already in the chamber, I stood ready with the hammer
raised, and my finger on the trigger, confident that I would not be put down.

There was no further need of extreme measures, however, for order was now restored, though
two of the assailants had skulked away in the dark.

How it was that I regained my advantage, after once losing it, I hardly know; but this I am
certain of, that being down I was not to be spared. Then desperation took the place of fear,
and I felt more than a match for all that could come against me. I had no other than serene
feelings, however, and had no wish to pursue the two pirates that fled.

Immediately after the second shot was fired, and I found myself once more master of my bark,
the remaining two came aft again, at my bidding this time, and in an orderly manner, it may
be believed.

It is idle to say what I would or would not have given to have the calamity averted, or, in
other words, to have had a crew of sailors, instead of a gang of cut-throats.

However, when the climax came, I had but one course to pursue; this I resolutely followed.
A man will defend himself and his family to the last, for life is sweet, after all.

It was significant, the court thought afterwards, that while my son had not had time to dress,
they all had on their boots except the one who fell last, and he was in his socks, with no
boots on. It was he who had waited for me as I have already said, on the cabin steps that I
usually passed up and down on, but this time avoided. Circumstantial evidence came up in abundance
to make the case perfectly clear to the authorities. There are few who will care to hear more
about a subject so abhorrent to all, and I care less to write about it. I would not have said
this much, but for the enterprise of a rising department clerk, who, seeing the importance
of telling to the world what he knew, and seeing also some small emolument in the matter, was
I believe prompted to augment the consular dispatches, thus obliging me to fight the battle
over. However, not to be severe on the poor clerk, I will only add that, no indignities were
offered me by the authorities through all the strict investigation that followed the tragedy.

The trial being for justice and not for my money the case was soon finished.

I sincerely hope that I may never again encounter such as those who came from the jails to
bring harm and sorrow in their wake.

The work of loading was finished soon after the calamity to my bark, and a Spanish sailing-master
was engaged to take her to Montevideo; my son Victor going as flag captain.

I piloted the Aquidneck out of the harbour, and left her clear of the buoy, looking as neat
and trim as sailor could wish to see. All the damage done by the late pampeiro had been repaired,
new topgallant-masts rigged, and all made ataunto. I saw my handsome bark well clear of the
dangers of the harbour limits, then in sorrow I left her and paddled back to the town, for
I was on parole to appear, as I have said, for trial! That was the word; I can find no other
name for it--let it stand!

As soon as the case was over I posted on for Montevideo by steamer, where the bark had arrived
only a few days ahead of me. I found her already stripped to a gantline though, preparatory
to a long stay in port. I had given Victor strict orders to interfere in no way with the Spaniard,
but to let him have full charge in nearly everything. I could have trusted the lad with full
command, young as he was; but there was a strange crew of foreigners which might, as often
happens, require maturer judgment to manage than to sail the vessel. As it proved, however,
even the cook was in many ways a better man than the sailing-master.

Victor met me with a long face, and the sailors wore a quizzical look as I came over the vessel's
side. One of them, in particular, whom I shall always remember, gave me a good-humoured greeting,
along with his shake of the head, that told volumes; and next day was aloft, crossing yards,
cheerfully enough. I found my Brazilian crew to be excellent sailors, and things on board the
Aquidneck immediately began to assume a brighter appearance, aloft and alow.

Cargo was soon discharged, other cargo taken in, and the bark made ready for sea. My crew,
I say, was a good one; but, poor fellows, they were doomed to trials--the worst within human
experience, many of them giving up to grim death before the voyage was ended. Too often one
bit of bad luck follows another. This rule brought us in contact with one of these small officials
at Montevideo, better adapted to home life; one of those knowing, perhaps, more than need a
cowboy, but not enough for consul. This official, managing to get word to my crew that a change
of master dissolved their contract, induced them to come on shore and claim pay for the whole
voyage and passage home on a steamer besides, the same as though the bark had been sold.

What overwhelming troubles may come of having incompetent officials in places of trust, the
sequel will show. This unwise, even stupid interference, was the indirect cause of the sufferings
and deaths among the crew which followed.

I was able to show the consul and his clerk that sailors are always engaged for the ship, and
never for the master, and that a change of master did not in any way affect their contract.
However, I paid the crew off, and then left it to their option to re-ship or not, for they
were all right, they had been led to do what they did, and I knew that they wanted to get home,
and it was there that the bark was going, direct.

All signed the articles again, except one, a long-haired Andalusian, whom I would not have
longer at any price. The wages remained the same as before, and all hands returned to their
duty cheerful and contented--but pending the consul's decision (which, by the way, I decided
for him), they had slept in a contagioned house, where, alas, they contracted small-pox of
the worst type.

We were now homeward bound. All the "runaway rum" that could be held out by the most subtle
crimps of Montevideo could not induce these sober Brazilian sailors to desert their ship.

These "crimps" are land-sharks who get the sailors drunk when they can, and then rob them of
their advance money. The sailors are all paid in advance; sometimes they receive in this way
most of their wages for the voyage, which they make after the money is spent, or wasted, or stolen.

We all know what working for dead horse means--sailors know too well its significance.

As sailing day drew near, a half-day liberty to each watch was asked for by the men, who wanted
to make purchases for their friends and relatives at Paranagua. Permission to go on shore was
readily granted, and I was rewarded by seeing every one return to his ship at the time promised,
and every one sober. On the morrow, which was sailing day, every man was at his post and all
sang "Cheerily, ho!" and were happy; all except one, who complained of slight chills and a
fever, but said that he had been subject to this, and that with a dose of quinine he would
soon be all right again.

It appeared a small matter. Two days later though, his chills turned to something which I knew
less about. The next day, three more men went down with rigor in the spine, and at the base
of the brain. I knew by this that small-pox was among us!

We bore up at once for Maldonado, which was the nearest port, the place spoken of in "Gulliver's
Travels," though Gulliver, I think, is mistaken as to its identity and location, arriving there
before a gathering storm that blew wet and cold from the east. Our signals of distress, asking
for immediate medical aid were set and flew thirty-six hours before any one came to us; then
a scared Yahoo (the country was still inhabited by Yahoos) in a boat rowed by two other animals,
came aboard, and said, "Yes, your men have got small-pox." "Vechega" he called it, but I understand
the lingo of the Yahoo very well, I could even speak a few words of it and comprehend the meanings.
"Vechega!" he bellowed to his mates alongside, and, turning to me, he said, in Yahoo: "You
must leave the port at once," then jumping into his boat he hurried away, along with his scared
companions.[2]

To leave a port in our condition was hard lines, but my perishing crew could get no succour
at Maldonado, so we could do nothing but leave, if at all able to do so. We were indeed short-handed,
but desperation lending a hand, the anchor was weighed and sufficient sail set on the bark
to clear the inhospitable port. The wind blowing fair out of the harbour carried us away from
the port toward Flores Island, for which we now headed in sore distress. A gale, long to be
remembered, sprang suddenly up, stripping off our sails like autumn leaves, before the bark
was three leagues from the place. We hadn't strength to clew up, so her sails were blown away,
and she went flying before the mad tempest under bare poles. A snow-white sea-bird came for
shelter from the storm, and poised on the deck to rest. The incident filled my sailors with
awe; to them it was a portentous omen, and in distress they dragged themselves together and,
prostrate before the bird, prayed the Holy Virgin to ask God to keep them from harm. The rain
beat on us in torrents, as the bark tossed and reeled ahead, and day turned black as night.
The gale was from E.S.E., and our course lay W.N.W. nearly, or nearly before it. I stood at
the wheel with my shore clothes on, I remember, for I hadn't yet had time to change them for
waterproofs; this of itself was small matter, but it reminds me now that I was busy with other
concerns. I was always a good helmsman, and I took in hand now the steering of the bark in
the storm--and I gave directions to Victor and the carpenter how to mix disinfectants for themselves,
and medicines for the sick men. The medicine chest was fairly supplied.

Flores, when seen, was but a few ship's lengths away. Flashes of lightning revealed the low
cliffs, amazingly near to us, and as the bark swept by with great speed, the roar of the breakers
on the shore, heard above the din of the storm, told us of a danger to beware. The helm was
then put down, and she came to under the lee of the island like a true, obedient thing.

Both anchors were let go, and all the chain paid out to both, to the bitter end, for the gale
was now a hurricane. She walked away with her anchors for all that we could do, till, hooking
a marine cable, one was carried away, and the other brought her head to the wind, and held
her there trembling in the storm.

Anxious fear lest the second cable should break was on our minds through the night; but a greater
danger was within the ship, that filled us all with alarm.

Two barks not far from us that night, with pilots on board, were lost, in trying to come through
where the Aquidneck, without a pilot and with but three hands on deck to work her, came in.
Their crews, with great difficulty, were rescued and then carried to Montevideo. When all had
been done that we three could do, a light was put in the rigging, that flickered in the gale
and went out. Then wet, and lame, and weary, we fell down in our drenched clothes, to rest
as we might--to sleep, or to listen to groans of our dying shipmates.

When daylight came (after this, the most dismal of all my nights at sea), our signals went
up telling of the sad condition of the crew, and begging for medical assistance. Toward night
the gale went down; but, as no boat came off, a gloom darker than midnight settled over the
crew of the pest-ridden bark, and in dismay they again prayed to be spared to meet the loved
ones awaiting them at home.

Our repeated signals, next day, brought the reply, "Stand in." Carramba! Why, we could hardly
stand at all; much less could we get the bark underway, and beat in against wind and current.
No one knew this better than they on the island, for my signals had told the whole story, and
as we were only a mile and a half from the shore, the flags were distinctly made out. There
was no doubt in our minds about that!

Late in the day, however, a barge came out to us, ill-manned and ill-managed by as scared a
set of "galoots" as ever capsized a boat, or trembled at a shadow! The coxswain had more to
say than the doctor, and the Yahoo--I forgot to mention that we were still in Yahoodom, but
one would see that without this explanation--the Yahoo in the bow said more than both; and
they all took a stiff pull from a bottle of cachazza,[3] the doctor having had the start, I
should say, of at least one or two pulls before leaving the shore, insomuch as he appeared
braver than the rest of the crew.

The doctor, having taken an extra horn or two, with Dutch courage came on board, and brought
with him a pound of sulphur, a pint of carbolic acid, and some barley--enough to feed a robin
a few times, for all of which we were thankful indeed, our disinfectants being by this time
nearly exhausted; then, glancing at the prostrate men, he hurried away, as the other had done
at Maldonado. I asked what I should do with the dead through the night--bury them where we
lay? "Oh, no, no!" cried the Yahoo in the bow; but the doctor pointed significantly to the
water alongside! I knew what he meant!

That night we buried José, the sailor whose honest smile had welcomed me to my bark at Montevideo.
I had ordered stones brought on deck, before dark, ostensibly to ballast the boat. I knew they
would soon be wanted! About midnight, the cook called me in sore distress, saying that José
was dying without confession!

So poor José was buried that night in the great River Plate! I listened to the solemn splash
that told of one life ended, and its work done; but gloomy, and sad, and melancholy as the
case was, I had to smile when the cook, not having well-secured the ballast, threw it over
after his friend, exclaiming, "Good-bye, José, good-bye!" I added, "Good-bye, good shipmate,
good-bye! I doubt not that you rest well!"

Next day, the signal from the shore was the same as the day before, "Stand in," in answer to
my repeated call for help. By this time my men were demoralized and panic-stricken, and the
poor fellows begged me, if the doctor would not try to cure them, to get a priest to confess
them all. I saw a padre pacing the beach, and set flags asking him to come on board. No notice
was taken of the signal, and we were now left entirely to ourselves.

After burying one more of the crew, we decided to remain no longer at this terrible place.
An English telegraph tender passing, outward-bound, caught up our signals at that point, and
kindly reported to her consul at Maldonado, who wired it to Montevideo.

