THE RE-CREATION OF BRIAN KENT

By Harold Bell Wright

DEAR AUNTIE SUE:

I have wondered many times, while writing this simple story of life and love, if you would
ever forgive me for putting you in a book. I hope you will, because if you do not, I shall
be heartbroken, and you wouldn't want me that way, would you, Auntie Sue?

I fancy I can hear you say: "But, Harold, how COULD you! You know I never did the things you
have made me do in your story. You know I never lived in a little log house by the river in
the Ozark Mountains! What in the world will people think!"

Well, to tell the truth, dear, I don't care so very much what people think if only they will
love you; and that they are sure to do, because,--well, just because--You must remember, too,
that you will be eighty-seven years old the eighteenth of next November, and it is therefore
quite time that someone put you in a book.

And, after all, Auntie Sue, are you very sure that you have never lived in a little log house
by the river,--are you very sure, Auntie Sue?

Forgive my impertinence, as you have always forgiven me everything; and love me just the same,
because I have written only in love of the dearest Auntie Sue in the world!

Signature [Harold]

The Glenwood Mission Inn, Riverside, California, April 30, 1919.

     "And see the rivers, how they run
     Through woods and meads, in shade and sun,
     Sometimes swift, sometimes slow,--
     Wave succeeding wave, they go
     A various journey to the deep
     Like human life to endless sleep!"

     John Dyer--"Grongar Hill."

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

I.     A REMARKABLE WOMAN

II.    THE MAN IN THE DARK

III.   A MISSING LETTER

IV.    THE WILL OF THE RIVER

V.     AUNTIE SUE RECOGNIZES A GENTLEMAN

VI.    IN THE LOG HOUSE BY THE RIVER

VII.   OFFICERS OF THE LAW

VIII.  THAT WHICH IS GREATER THAN THE LAW

IX.    AUNTIE SUE'S PROPOSITION

X.     BRIAN KENT DECIDES

XI.    RE-CREATION

XII.   AUNTIE SUE TAKES A CHANCE

XIII.  JUDY TO THE RESCUE

XIV.   BETTY JO CONSIDERS

XV.    A MATTER OF BUSINESS

XVI.   THE SECRET OF AUNTIE SUE'S LIFE

XVII.  AN AWKWARD SITUATION

XVIII. BETTY JO FACES HERSELF

XIX.   JUDY'S CONFESSION

XX.    BRIAN AND BETTY JO KEEP HOUSE

XXI.   THE WOMAN AT THE WINDOW

XXII.  AT THE EMPIRE CONSOLIDATED SAVINGS BANK

XXIII. IN THE ELBOW ROCK RAPIDS

XXIV.  JUDY'S RETURN

XXV.   THE RIVER

ILLUSTRATIONS

BETTY JO

"LOOK, JUDY! LOOK!"

AUNTIE SUE SAID, SOFTLY, "SHE DID NOT UNDERSTAND, BRIAN."

...SHE MADE THE LITTLE BOOK OF PAINFUL MEMORIES A BOOK OF JOYOUS PROMISE.

THE RE-CREATION OF BRIAN KENT

CHAPTER I.

A REMARKABLE WOMAN.

I remember as well as though it were yesterday the first time I met Auntie Sue.

It happened during my first roaming visit to the Ozarks, when I had wandered by chance, one
day, into the Elbow Rock neighborhood. Twenty years it was, at least, before the time of this
story. She was standing in the door of her little schoolhouse, the ruins of which you may still
see, halfway up the long hill from the log house by the river, where the most of this story
was lived.

It was that season of the year when the gold and brown of our Ozark Hills is overlaid with
a filmy veil of delicate blue haze and the world is hushed with the solemn sweetness of the
passing of the summer. And as the old gentlewoman stood there in the open door of that rustic
temple of learning, with the deep-shadowed, wooded hillside in the background, and, in front,
the rude clearing with its crooked rail fence along which the scarlet sumac flamed, I thought,--as
I still think, after all these years,--that I had never before seen such a woman.

Fifty years had gone into the making of that sterling character which was builded upon a foundation
of many generations of noble ancestors. Without home or children of her own, the life strength
of her splendid womanhood had been given to the teaching of boys and girls. An old-maid schoolteacher?
Yes,--if you will. But, as I saw her standing there that day,--tall and slender, dressed in
a simple gown that was fitting to her work,--there was a queenly dignity, a stately sweetness,
in her bearing that made me feel, somehow, as if I had come unexpectedly into the presence
of royalty. Not the royalty of caste and court and station with their glittering pretenses
of superiority and their superficial claims to distinction,--I do not mean that; I mean that
true royalty which needs no caste or court or station but makes itself felt because it IS.

She did not notice me at first, for the noise of the children at play in the yard covered the
sound of my approach, and she was looking far, far away, over the river which lay below at
the foot of the hill; over the forest-clad mountains in the glory of their brown and gold;
over the vast sweep of the tree-crowned Ozark ridges that receded wave after wave into the
blue haze until, in the vastness of the distant sky, they were lost. And something made me
know that, in the moment's respite from her task, the woman was looking even beyond the sky itself.

Her profile, clean-chiselled, but daintily formed, was beautiful in its gentle strength. Her
hair was soft and silvery like the gray mist of the river in the morning. Then she turned to
greet me, and I saw her eyes. Boy that I was then, and not given overmuch to serious thought,
I knew that the high, unwavering purpose, the loving sympathy, and tender understanding that
shone in the calm depth of those eyes could belong only to one who habitually looks unafraid
beyond all earthly scenes. Only those who have learned thus to look beyond the material horizon
of our little day have that beautiful inner light which shone in the eyes of Auntie Sue--the
teacher of a backwoods school.

Auntie Sue had come to the Elbow Rock neighborhood the summer preceding that fall when I first
met her. She had grown too old, she said, with her delightful little laugh, to be of much use
in the larger schools of the more thickly populated sections of the country. But she was still
far too young, she stoutly maintained, to be altogether useless.

Tom Warden, who lived just over the ridge from the schoolhouse, and who was blessed with the
largest wife, the largest family, and the most pretentious farm in the county, had kinsfolk
somewhere in Illinois. Through these relatives of the Ozark farmer Miss Susan Wakefield had
learned of the needs of the Elbow Rock school, and so, finally, had come into the hills. It
was the influential Tom who secured for her the modest position. It was the motherly Mrs. Tom
who made her at home in the Warden household. It was the Warden boys and girls who first called
her "Auntie Sue." But it was Auntie Sue herself who won so large a place in the hearts of the
simple mountain folk of the district that she held her position year after year, until she
finally gave up teaching altogether.

Not one of her Ozark friends ever came to know in detail the history of this remarkable woman's
life. It was known in a general way that she was born in Connecticut; that she had a brother
somewhere in some South-American country; that two other brothers had been killed in the Civil
War; that she had taught in the lower and intermediate grades of public schools in various
places all the years of her womanhood. Also, it was known that she had never married.

"And that," said Uncle Lige Potter, voicing the unanimous opinion, of the countryside, "is
a doggone funny thing and plumb unnatural, considerin' the kind of woman she is."

To which Lem Jordan,--who was then living with his fourth wife, and might therefore be held
to speak with a degree of authority,--added: "Hit sure is a dad burned shame, an' a plumb disgrace
to the men of this here country, when you come to look at the sort of wimmen most of 'em are
a marryin' most of the time."

Another matter of universal and never-failing interest to the mountain folk was the unprecedented
number of letters that Auntie Sue received and wrote. That some of these letters written by
their backwoods teacher were addressed to men and women of such prominence in the world that
their names were known even to that remote Ozark district was a source of no little pride to
Auntie Sue's immediate neighbors, and served to mark her in their eyes with no small distinction.

It was during the fourth year of her life amid the scenes of this story,--as I recall time,--that
Auntie Sue invested the small savings of her working years in the little log house by the river
and the eighty acres of land known as the "Old Bill Wilson place."

The house was a substantial building of three rooms, a lean-to kitchen, and a porch overlooking
the river. The log barn, with "Prince," a gentle old horse, and "Bess," a mild-mannered, brindle
cow, completed the modest establishment. About thirty acres of the land were cleared and under
cultivation of a sort. The remaining acreage was in timber. The price, under the kindly and
expert supervision of Tom Warden, was fifteen dollars an acre. But Auntie Sue always laughingly
insisted that she really paid fifty cents an acre for the land and fourteen dollars and a half
an acre for the sunsets.

The tillable land, except for the garden, she "let out on shares," always under the friendly
guardianship of neighbor Tom; while Tom's boys cared for the little garden in season, and saw
to it that the woodpile was always ample and ready for the stove. And, in addition to these
fixed and regular homely services, there were many offerings of helpful hands whenever other
needs arose; for, as time passed, there came to be in all the Elbow Rock district scarce a
man, young or old, who did not now and then honor himself by doing some little job for Auntie
Sue; while the women and girls, in the same neighborly spirit, brought from their own humble
households many tokens of their loving thoughtfulness. And never did one visit that little
log house by the river without the consciousness of something received from the silvery-haired
old teacher--a something intangible, perhaps, which they could not have expressed in words,
but which, nevertheless, enriched the lives of those simple mountain people with a very real
joy and a very tangible happiness.

For six years, Auntie Sue continued teaching the Elbow Rock school;--climbing the hill in the
morning from her log house by the river to the cabin schoolhouse in the clearing on the mountain-side
above; returning in the late afternoon, when her day's work was over, down the winding road
to her little home, there to watch, from the porch that overlooked the river, the sunset in
the evening. And every year the daily climb grew a little harder; the days of work grew a little
longer; she went down the hill in the afternoon a little slower. And every year the sunsets
were to her eyes more beautiful; the evening skies to her understanding glowed with richer
meaning; the twilight hours filled her heart with a deeper peace.

And so, at last, her teaching days were over; that is, she taught no more in the log schoolhouse
in the clearing on the mountain-side. But in her little home beside the river she continued
her work; not from text-books, indeed, but as all such souls must continue to teach, until
the sun sets for the last time upon their mortal days.

Work-worn, toil-hardened mountaineer mothers, whose narrow world denied them so many of the
finer thoughts and things, came to counsel with this childless woman, and to learn from her
a little of the art of contentment and happiness. Strong men, of rude dress and speech, whose
lives were as rough as the hills in which they were reared, and whose thoughts were often as
crude as their half-savage and sometimes lawless customs, came to sit at the feet of this gentle
one, who received them all with such kindly interest and instinctive understanding. And young
men and girls came, drawn by the magic that was hers, to confide in this woman who listened
with such rare tact and loving sympathy to their troubles and their dreams, and who, in the
deepest things of their young lives, was mother to them all.

Nor were the mountain folk her only disciples. Always there were the letters she continued
to write, addressed to almost every corner of the land. And every year there would come, for
a week or a month, at different times during the summer, men and women from the great world
of larger affairs who had need of the strength and courage and patience and hope they never
failed to find in that little log house by the river. And so, in time, it came to be known
that those letters written by Auntie Sue went to men and women who, in their childhood school
days, had received from her their first lessons in writing; and that her visitors, many of
them distinguished in the world of railroads and cities, were of that large circle of busy
souls who had never ceased to be her pupils.

Thus it came that the garden was made a little larger, and two rooms were added to the house,
with other modest improvements, to accommodate Auntie Sue's grown-up boys and girls when they
came to visit her. But never was there a hired servant, so that her guests must do their own
household tasks, because, Auntie Sue said, that was good for them and mostly what they needed.

It should also be said here that among her many pupils who lived beyond the sky-line of the
far, blue hills, not one knew more of the real secret of Auntie Sue's life and character than
did the Ozark mountaineers of the Elbow Rock district, among whom she had chosen to pass the
evening of her day.

Then came one who learned the secret. He learned--but that is my story. I must not tell the
secret here.

CHAPTER II.

THE MAN IN THE DARK.

A man stood at a window, looking out into the night. There was no light in the room. The stars
were hidden behind a thick curtain of sullen clouds.

The house was a wretchedly constructed, long-neglected building of a type common to those old
river towns that in their many years of uselessness have lost all civic pride, and in their
own resultant squalor and filth have buried their self-respect. A dingy, scarcely legible sign
over the treacherous board walk, in front, by the sickly light of a smoke-grimed kerosene lantern,
announced that the place was a hotel.

Dark as it was, the man at the window could see the river. The trees that lined the bank opposite
the town were mere ghostly shadows against the gloomy masses of the low hills that rose from
the water's edge, indistinct, mysterious, and unreal, into the threatening sky. The higher
mountains that reared their crests beyond the hills were invisible. The stream itself swept
sullenly through the night,--a resistless flood of dismal power, as if, turbid with wrecked
souls, with the lost hopes and ruined dreams of men, it was fit only to bear vessels freighted
with sorrow, misfortune, and despair.

The manner of the man at the window was as if some woeful spirit of the melancholy scene were
calling him. With head bowed, and face turned a little to one side, he listened intently as
one listens to voices that are muffled and indistinct. He pressed his face close to the glass,
and with straining eyes tried to see more clearly the ghostly trees, the sombre hills, and
the gloomy river. Three times he turned from the window to pace to and fro in the darkened
room, and every time his steps brought him again to the casement, as if in obedience to some
insistent voice that summoned him. The fourth time, he turned from the window more quickly,
with a gesture of assenting decision.

The crackling snap of a match broke the dead stillness. The sudden flare of light stabbed the
darkness. As he applied the tiny, wavering flame to the wick of a lamp that stood on the cheap,
old-fashioned bureau, the man's hand shook until the chimney rattled against the wire standards
of the burner. Turning quickly from the lighted lamp, the man sprang again to the window to
jerk down the tattered, old shade. Facing about, he stood with his back to the wall, searching
the room with wide, fearful eyes. His fists were clenched. His chest rose and fell heavily
with his labored breathing. His face worked with emotion. With trembling limbs and twitching
muscles, he crouched like some desperate creature at bay.

But, save for the wretched man himself, there was in that shabby, dingy-papered, dirty-carpeted,
poorly furnished apartment no living thing.

Suddenly, the man laughed;--and it was the reckless, despairing laughter of a soul that feels
itself slipping over the brink of an abyss.

With hurried step and outstretched hands, he crossed the room to snatch a bottle of whisky
from its place beside the lamp on the bureau. With trembling eagerness, he poured a water tumbler
half-full of the red liquor. As one dying of thirst, he drank. Drawing a deep breath, and shaking
his head with a wry smile, he spoke in hoarse confidence to the image of himself in the dingy
mirror: "They nearly had me, that time." Again, he poured, and drank.

The whisky steadied him for the moment, and with bottle and glass still in hand, he regarded
himself in the mirror with critical interest.

Had he stood erect, with the vigor that should have been his by right of his years, the man
would have measured just short of six feet; but his shoulders--naturally well set--sagged with
the weariness of excessive physical indulgence; while the sunken chest, the emaciated limbs,
and the dejected posture of his misused body made him in appearance, at least, a wretched weakling.
His clothing--of good material and well tailored--was disgustingly soiled and neglected;--the
shoes thickly coated with dried mud, and the once-white shirt, slovenly unfastened at the throat,
without collar or tie. The face which looked back from the mirror to the man was, without question,
the countenance of a gentleman; but the broad forehead under the unkempt red-brown hair was
furrowed with anxiety; the unshaven cheeks were lined and sunken; the finely shaped, sensitive
mouth drooped with nervous weakness; and the blue, well-placed eyes were bloodshot and glittering
with the light of near-insanity.

The poor creature looked at the hideous image of his ruined self as if fascinated with the
horror of that which had been somehow wrought. Slowly, as one in a trance, he went closer,
and, without moving his gaze from the mirror, placed the bottle and tumbler upon the bureau.
As if compelled by those burning eyes that stared so fixedly at him, he leaned forward still
closer to the glass. Then, as he looked, the distorted features twitched and worked grotesquely
with uncontrollable emotions, while the quivering lips formed words that were not even whispered.
With trembling fingers he felt the unshaven cheeks and touched the unkempt hair questioningly.
Suddenly, as if to shut out the horror of that which he saw in the mirror, the man hid his
face in his hands, and with a sobbing, inarticulate cry sank to the floor.

Silently, with pitiless force, the river swept onward through the night, following its ordained
way to the mighty sea.

As if summoned again by some dark spirit that brooded over the sombre, rushing flood, the man
rose heavily to his feet. His face turned once more toward the window. A moment he stood there,
listening, listening; then wheeling back to the whisky bottle and the glass on the bureau,
he quickly poured, and drank again.

Nodding his head in the manner of one reaching a conclusion, he looked slowly about the room,
while a frightful grin of hopeless, despairing triumph twisted his features, and his lips moved
as if he breathed reckless defiance to an invisible ghostly company.

Moving, now, with a decision and purpose that suggested a native strength of character, the
man quickly packed a suit-case with various articles of clothing from the bureau drawers and
the closet. He was in the act of closing the suit-case when he stopped suddenly, and, with
a shrug of his shoulders, turned away. Then, as if struck by another thought, he stooped again
over his baggage, and drew forth a fresh, untouched bottle of whisky.

"I guess you are the only baggage I'll need where I am going," he said, whimsically; and, leaving
the open suit-case where it lay, he crossed the room, and extinguished the light. Cautiously,
he unlocked and opened the door. For a moment, he stood listening. Then, with the bottle hidden
under his coat, he stole softly from the room.

A few minutes later, the man stood out there in the night, on the bank of the river. Behind
him the outlines of the scattered houses that made the little town were lost against the dusk
of the hillside. From the ghostly tree-shadows that marked the opposite bank, the solemn hills
rose out of the deeper darkness of the lowlands that edged the stream in sombre mystery. There
was no break in the heavy clouds to permit the gleam of a friendly star. There was no sound
save the soft swish of the water against the bank where he stood, the chirping of a bird in
the near-by willows, and the occasional splash of a leaping fish or water animal. But to the
man there was a feeling of sound. To the lonely human wreck standing there in the darkness,
the river called--called with fearful, insistent power.

From under the black wall of the night the dreadful flood swept out of the Somewhere of its
beginning. Past the man the river poured its mighty strength with resistless, smoothly flowing,
terrible force. Into the darkness it swept on its awful way to the Nowhere of its ending. For
uncounted ages, the river had poured itself thus between those walls of hills. For untold ages
to come, until the end of time itself, the stream would continue to pour its strength past
that spot where the man stood.

Out of the night, the voice of the river had called to the man, as he stood at the window of
his darkened room. And the man had come, now, to answer the call. Cautiously, he went down
the bank toward the edge of the dark, swirling water. His purpose was unmistakable. Nor was
there any hint of faltering, now, in his manner. He had reached his decision. He knew what
he had come to do.

The man's feet were feeling the mud at the margin of the stream when his legs touched something,
and a low, rattling sound startled him. Then he remembered. A skiff was moored there, and he
had brushed against the chain that led from the bow of the boat to the stump of a willow higher
up on the bank. The man had seen the skiff,--a rude, flat-bottomed little craft, known to the
Ozark natives as a John-boat,--just before sunset that evening. But there had been no boat
in his thoughts when he had come to answer the call of the river, and in the preoccupation
of his mind, as he stood there in the night beside the stream, he had not noticed it, as it
lay so nearly invisible in the darkness. Mechanically, he stooped to feel the chain with his
free hand. A moment later, he had placed his bottle of whisky carefully in the boat, and was
loosing the chain painter from the willow stump.

"Why not?" he said to himself. "It will be easier in midstream,--and more certain."

Carefully, so that no sound should break the stillness, he stowed the chain in the bow, and
then worked the skiff around until it pointed out into the stream. Then, with his hands grasping
the sides of the little craft, and the weight of his body on one knee in the stern, he pushed
vigorously with his free foot against the bank and so was carried well out from the shore.
As the boat lost its momentum, the strong current caught it and whirled it away down the river.

Groping in the darkness, the man found his bottle of whisky, and working the cork out with
his pocketknife, drank long and deep.

Already, save for a single light, the town was lost in the night. As the man watched that red
spot on the black wall, the stream swung his drifting boat around a bend, and the light vanished.
The dreadful mystery of the river drew close. The world of men was far, very far away. Centuries
ago, the man had faced himself in the mirror, and had obeyed the voice that summoned him into
the darkness. In fancy, now, he saw his empty boat swept on and on. Through what varied scenes
would it drift? To what port would the mysterious will of the river carry it? To what end would
it at last come in its helplessness?

And the man himself,--the human soul-craft,--what of him? As he had pushed his material boat
out into the stream to drift, unguided and helpless, so, presently, he would push himself out
from the shore of all that men call life. Through what scenes would he drift? To what port
would the will of an awful invisible stream carry him? To what end would he finally come, in
his helplessness?

Again the man drank--and again.

And then, with face upturned to the leaden clouds, he laughed aloud--laughed until the ghostly
shores gave back his laughter, and the voices of the night were hushed and still.

The laughter ended with a wild, reckless, defiant yell.

Springing to his feet in the drifting boat, the man shook his clenched fist at the darkness,
and with insane fury cursed the life he had left behind.

The current whirled the boat around, and the man faced down the stream. He laughed again; and,
lifting his bottle high, uttered a reckless, profane toast to the unknown toward which he was
being carried by the river in the night.

CHAPTER III.

A MISSING LETTER.

Auntie Sue's little log house by the river was placed some five hundred yards back from the
stream, on a bench of land at the foot of Schoolhouse Hill. From this bench, the ground slopes
gently to the river-bank, which, at this point, is sheer and high enough to be well above the
water at flood periods. The road, winding down the hill, turns to the right at the foot of
the steep grade, and leads away up the river; and between the road and the river, on the up-stream
side of the house, was the garden.

At the lower corner of the garden, farthest from the house, the strong current had cut a deep
inward curve in the high shore-line, forming thus an eddy, which was margined on one side,
at a normal stage of water, by a narrow shelf of land between the water's edge and the foot
of the main bank. A flight of rude steps led down from the garden above to this natural landing,
which, for three miles up and down the river, was the only point, on Auntie Sue's side of the
stream, where one could go ashore from a skiff.

From the porch of the house, one, facing up the river, looked over the gently sloping garden,
over the eddy lying under the high bank, and away over a beautiful reach of water known as
The Bend,--a wide, sweeping curve which, a mile distant, is lost behind a wooded bluff where,
at times, during the vacation or hunting season, one might see the smoke from the stone chimney
of a clubhouse which was built and used by people who lived in the big, noisy city many miles
from the peaceful Ozark scene. From the shore of The Bend, opposite and above Auntie Sue's
place, beyond the willows that fringe the water's edge, the low bottom-lands extend back three-quarters
of a mile to the foot of a heavily timbered ridge, beyond which rise the higher hills. But
directly across from Auntie Sue's house, this ridge curves sharply toward the stream; while
less than a quarter of a mile below, a mighty mountain-arm is thrust out from a shoulder of
Schoolhouse Hill, as if to bar the river's way. The high bluff thus formed is known to the
natives throughout all that region as Elbow Rock.

The quiet waters of The Bend move so gently on their broad course that from the porch, looking
up the stream, the eye could scarcely mark the current. But in front of the little log house,
where the restraining banks of the river draw closer together, the lazy current awakens to
quickening movement. Looking down the stream, one could see the waters leaving the broad and
quiet reaches of The Bend above and rushing away with fast increasing speed between the narrowing
banks until, in all their vicious might, they dashed full against the Elbow Rock cliff, where,
boiling and tossing in mad fury, they roared away at a right angle and so around the point
and on to another quiet stretch below. And many were the tales of stirring adventure and tragic
accident at this dangerous point of the river's journey to the far-away sea. Skilled rivermen,
by holding their John-boats and canoes close to the far shore, might run the rapids with safety.
But no boat, once caught in the vicious grip of the main current between the comparatively
still waters of The Bend and that wild, roaring tumult at Elbow Rock, had ever survived.

It was nearing the close of a late summer day, and Auntie Sue, as was her custom, stood on
the porch watching the sunset. In the vast field of sky that arched above the softly rounded
hills there was not a cloud. No wind stirred the leaves of the far-reaching forests, or marred
the bright waters of the quiet Bend that mirrored back the green, tree-fringed banks and blue-shadowed
mountains. Faintly, through the hush, from beyond the bottom-lands on the other side of the
stream, came the long-drawn "Wh-o-e-e! Wh-o-e-e!" of farmer Jackson calling his hogs. From
the hillside, back of the house, sounded the deep, mellow tones of a cowbell, telling Auntie
Sue that neighbor Tom's cattle were going home from their woodland pastures. A company of crows
crossed the river on leisure wing, toward some evening rendezvous. A waterfowl flapped slowly
up the stream. And here and there the swallows wheeled in graceful circles above the gleaming
Bend, or dipped, flashlike, to break the silvery surface. As the blue of the mountains deepened
to purple, and the rosy light from below the western hills flushed the sky, the silver sheen
of the quiet water changed with the changing tints above, and the shadows of the trees along
the bank deepened until the shore-line was lost in the dusk of the coming night.

And even as the river gave back the light of the sky and the color of the mountains, so the
gentle face of the gray-haired woman, who watched with such loving reverence, reflected the
beauty of the scene. The peace and quiet of the evening of her life was as the still loveliness
of that twilight hour.

And, yet, there was a suggestion of pathos in the loneliness of the slender figure standing
there. Now and again, she clasped her delicate hands to her breast as if moved by emotions
of a too-poignant sweetness, while in her eyes shone the soft light of fondest memories and
dearest dreams. Several times she turned her head to look about, as if wishing for some one
to share with her the beauty that moved her so. At last, she called; and her voice, low and
pure-toned, had in it the quality that was in the light of her eyes.

"Judy! Judy, dear! Do come and see this wonderful, wonderful sky!"

From within the house, a shrill, querulous, drawling voice, so characteristic of the Southern
"poor-white" mountaineer, answered: "Wha-a-t?"

A quick little smile deepened the crows'-feet at the corners of Auntie Sue's eyes, as she called
again with gentle patience: "Do come and see the sunset, Judy, dear! It is so beautiful!" And,
this time, in answer, Judy appeared in the doorway.

From appearances, the poor creature's age might have been anywhere from fifteen to thirty-five;
for the twisted and misshapen body, angular and hard; the scrawny, wry neck; the old-young
face, thin and sallow, with furtive, beady-black eyes, gave no hint of her years. As a matter
of fact, I happened to know that Judith Taylor, daughter of the notorious Ozark moonshiner,
Jap Taylor, was just past twenty the year she went to live with Auntie Sue.

Looking obliquely at the old gentlewoman, with a curious expression of mingled defiance, suspicion,
and affection on her almost vicious face, Judy drawled, "Was you-all a-yellin' for me?"

"Yes, Judy; I want you to help me watch the sunset," Auntie Sue answered, with bright animation;
and, turning, she pointed toward the glowing west,--"Look!"

Judy's sly, evasive eyes did not cease to regard the illumined face of her old companion as
she returned, in her dry, high-pitched monotone: "I don't reckon as how you-all are a-needin'
much help, seein' as how you are allus a-watchin' hit. A body'd think you-all was mighty nigh
old 'nough, by now, ter look at hit alone."

Auntie Sue laughed, a low, musical, chuckling laugh, and, with a hint of loving impatience
in her gentle voice, replied to Judy's observation: "But, don't you understand, child? It adds
so to one's happiness to share lovely scenes like this. It makes it all so much--so much--well,--BIGGER,
to have some one enjoy it with you. Come, dear!" And she held out her hand with a gesture of
entreaty, and a look of yearning upon her dear old face that no human being could have withstood.

Judy, still slyly watchful, went cautiously nearer; and Auntie Sue, putting an arm lovingly
about the crooked shoulders of the mountain girl, pointed again toward the west as she said,
in a low voice that vibrated with emotion, "Look, Judy! Look!"

The black eyes shifted, and the old-young, expressionless face turned toward the landscape,
which lay before them in all its wondrous beauty of glowing sky and tinted mountain and gleaming
river. And there might have been a faint touch of softness, now, in the querulous monotone
as Judy said: "I can't see as how hit could be ary bigger. Hain't ary reason, as I kin see,
why hit should be ary bigger if hit could. Lord knows there's 'nough of hit as 't is; rough
'nough, too, as you-all 'd sure know if you-all had ter trapse over them there hills all yer
life like I've had ter."

"But, isn't it wonderful to-night, Judy? It seems to me I have never seen it so perfect."

"Hit's just like hit's allus been, so far as I kin see, 'ceptin' that the river's higher in
the spring an' more muddier," returned the mountain girl. "I was borned over there on yon side
that there flat-topped mountain, nigh the mouth of Red Creek. I growed up on the river, mostly;--learned
ter swim an' paddle er John-boat 'fore I kin remember. Red Creek, hit heads over there behind
that there long ridge, in Injin Holler. There's a still--"

She checked herself suddenly, and shot a fearful sidewise look at Auntie Sue; then turned and
pointed in the opposite direction with a pretense of excited interest. "Look down there, ma'm!
See how black the old river is where she smashes inter Elbow Rock, an' how white them waves
be where the water biles an' throws hitself. Hit'd sure git you if you was ter git ketched
in there with er John-boat, wouldn't hit? Listen, ma'm! You kin hear hit a-roarin' like hit
was mad, can't you?"

But the older woman turned to face, again, the quiet reaches of The Bend.

"I think I like The Bend best, though, Judy. See how perfectly those trees and hills are mirrored
in the river; and how the water holds the color of the sky. Don't you think God is good to
make the world so beautiful for us, child?"

"'Beautiful'!" cried poor, deformed Judy, in a voice that shrilled in vicious protest. "If
there is a God, like you-all are allus a-talkin' 'bout, an' if He sure 'nough made them things,
like you-all sees 'em, He sure hain't toted fair with me."

"Hush, Judy!" pleaded Auntie Sue. "Please don't, child!"

But the mountain girl rebelliously continued: "Look at me! Just look at me! If that there God
of your'n is so all-fired good, what did He go an' let my pap git drunk for, an' beat me like
he done when I was a baby, an' make me grow up all crooked like what I be? 'Good'? Hell! A
dad burned ornery kind of a God I call Him!"

For some time, Auntie Sue did not speak, but stood with her face upturned to the sky. Then
the low, gentle voice again broke the silence: "See, Judy, dear; the light is almost gone now,
and there is not a cloud anywhere. Yesterday evening, you remember, we could not see the sunset
at all, the clouds were so heavy and solid. The moon will be lovely to-night. I think I shall
wait for it."

"You-all best set down then," said Judy, speaking again in her querulous, drawling monotone.
"I'll fetch a chair." She brought a comfortable rustic rocking-chair from the farther end of
the porch; then disappeared into the house, to return a moment later with a heavy shawl. "Hit'll
be a-turnin' cold directly, now the sun's plumb down," she said, "an' you-all mustn't get to
chillin', nohow."

Auntie Sue thanked her with gentle courtesy, and, reaching up, caught the girl's hand as Judy
was awkwardly arranging the wrap about the thin old shoulders. "Won't you bring a chair for
yourself, and sit with me awhile, dear?" As she spoke, Auntie Sue patted the hard, bony hand
caressingly.

But Judy pulled her hand away roughly, saying: "You-all ain't got no call ter do sich as that
ter me. I'll set awhile with you but I ain't a-needin' no chair." And with that, she seated
herself on the floor, her back against the wall of the house.

The last of the evening was gone from the sky, now. The soft darkness of a clear, star-light
night lay over the land. A gentle breeze stole over the mountains, rustled softly through the
forest, and, drifting across the river, touched Auntie Sue's silvery hair.

Judy was first to break the silence: "I took notice neighbor Tom brung you-all a right smart
bunch of letter mail this evenin'," she said, curiously.

There was a troubled note in Auntie Sue's gentle voice as she returned, "The letter from the
bank did not come, Judy."

"Hit didn't?"

"No; and, Judy, it is nearly four weeks, now, since I sent them that money. I can't understand it."

"I was plumb scared at the time, you oughten ter sent hit just in er letter that a-way. Hit
sure looked like a heap of money ter be a-trustin' them there ornery post-office fellers with,
even if hit was funny, new-fangled money like that there was. Why, ma'm, you take old Tod Stimson,
down at the Ferry, now, an' that old devil'd steal anythin' what warn't too much trouble for
him ter lift."

"Argentine notes the money was, Judy. I felt sure that it would be all right because, you know,
Brother John sent it just in a letter all the way from Buenos Aires. And, you remember, I folded
it up in extra heavy paper, and put it in two envelopes, one over the other, and mailed it
at Thompsonville with my own hands."

"Hit sure looks like hit ought ter be safe er nough, so long as hit warn't mailed at the Ferry
where old Stimson could git his hands on hit," agreed Judy.

Then, after a silence of several minutes, she added, in a more reassuring voice: "I reckon
as how hit'll be all right, ma'm. I wouldn't worry myself, if I was you. That there bank-place,
like as not, gits er right smart lot of letters, an' hit stands ter reason the feller just
naturally can't write back ter ev'rybody at once."

"Of course," agreed Auntie Sue. "It is just some delay in their acknowledgment, that is all.
Perhaps they are waiting to find out if the notes are genuine; or it may be that their letter
to me went astray, and will have to be returned to them, and then remailed all over again.
I feel sure I shall hear from them in a few days."

So they talked until the moon appeared from behind the dark mountains that, against her light,
were silhouetted on the sky. And, as the old gentlewoman watched the queen of the night rising
higher and higher on her royal course, and saw the dusky landscape transformed to a fairy-scene
of ethereal loveliness, Auntie Sue forgot the letter that had not come.

With the enthusiasm that never failed her, the silvery-haired teacher tried to give the backwoods
girl a little of her wealth of vision. But though they looked at the same landscape, the eyes
of twenty could not see that which was so clear to the eyes of seventy. Poor Judy! The river,
sweeping on its winding way through the hills, from the springs of its far-away beginnings
to the ocean of its final endeavor,--in all its varied moods and changes,--in all its beauty
and its irresistible power,--the river could never mean to Judy what it meant to Auntie Sue.

"Hit sure is er fine night for to go 'possum huntin'," said the girl, at last, getting to her
feet and standing in her twisted attitude, with her wry neck holding her head to one side.
"Them there Jackson boys'll sure be out."

Auntie Sue laughed her low chuckling laugh.

From the edge of the timber that borders the fields of the bottom-lands across the river, came
the baying of hounds. "There they be now," said Judy. "Hear 'em? The Billingses, 'cross from
the clubhouse, 'll be out, too, I reckon. When hit's moonlight, they're allus a-huntin' 'possum
an' 'coon. When hit's dark, they're out on the river a-giggin' for fish. Well, I reckon I'll
be a-goin' in, now, ma'm," she concluded, with a yawn. "Ain't no use in a body stayin' up when
there ain't nothin' ter do but ter sleep, as I kin see."

With an awkward return to Auntie Sue's "Goodnight and sweet dreams, dear," the mountain girl
went into the house.

For an hour longer, the old gentlewoman sat on the porch of her little log house by the river,
looking out over the moonlit scene. Nor did she now, as when she had watched the sunset, crave
human companionship. In spirit, she was far from all earthly needs or cares,--where no troubled
thoughts could disturb her serene peace and her dearest dreams were real.

The missing letter was forgotten.

CHAPTER IV.

THE WILL OF THE RIVER.

Had Auntie Sue remained a few minutes longer on the porch, that evening, she might have seen
an object drifting down the river, in the gentle current of The Bend.

Swinging easily around the curve above the clubhouse, it would not have been visible at first,
because of the deep shadows of the reflected trees and mountains. But, presently, as it drifted
on into the broader waters of The Bend, it emerged from the shadows into the open moonlit space,
and then, to any one watching from the porch, the dark object, drawing nearer and nearer in
the bright moonlight, would have soon shaped itself into a boat--an empty boat, the watcher
would have said, that had broken from its moorings somewhere up the river;--and the watcher
would have heard, through the still, night air, the dull, heavy roar of the mad waters at Elbow
Rock.

Drifting thus, helpless in the grip of the main current, the little craft apparently was doomed
to certain destruction. Gently, it would float on the easy surface of the quiet, moonlit Bend.
In front of the house, it would move faster and faster. Where the river narrows, it would be
caught as if by mighty hands hidden beneath the rushing flood, and dragged onward still faster
and faster. About it, the racing waters would leap and boil in their furious, headlong career,
shaking and tossing the helpless victim of their might with a vicious strength from which there
would be no escape, until, in the climax of the river's madness, the object of its angry sport
would be dashed against the cliff, and torn, and crushed, and hammered by the terrific weight
of the rushing flood against that rocky anvil, into a battered and shapeless wreck.

The drifting boat drew nearer and nearer. It reached the point where the curve of the opposite
bank draws in to form the narrow raceway of the rapids. It began to feel the stronger pull
of those hidden hands that had carried it so easily down The Bend. And then--and then--the
unguided, helpless craft responded to the gentle pressure of some swirl or crosscurrent in
the main flow of the stream, and swung a little to one side. A few feet farther, and the new
impulse became stronger. Yielding easily to the current that drew it so gently across the invisible
dividing-line between safety and destruction, the boat swung in toward the shore. A minute
more, and it had drifted into that encircling curve of the bank where the current of the eddy
carried it around and around.

The boat seemed undecided. Would it hold to the harbor of safety into which it had been drawn
by the friendly current? Would it swing out, again, into the main stream, and so to its own
destruction?

Three times the bow, pointing out from the eddy, crossed the danger-line, and, for a moment,
hung on the very edge. Three times, the invisible hands which held it drew it gently back to
safety. And so, finally, the little craft, so helpless, so alone, amid the many currents of
the great river, came to rest against the narrow shelf of land at the foot of the bank below
Auntie Sue's garden.

The light in the window of Auntie Sue's room went out. The soft moonlight flooded mountain
and valley and stream. The mad waters at Elbow Rock roared in their wild fury. Always, always,--irresistibly,
inevitably, unceasingly,--the river poured its strength toward the sea.

CHAPTER V.

AUNTIE SUE RECOGNIZES A GENTLEMAN.

Before the sun was high enough to look over Schoolhouse Hill, the next morning, Judy went into
the garden to dig some potatoes.

Tom Warden's boys would come, some day before long, and dig them all, and put them away in
the cellar for the winter. But there was no need to hurry the gathering of the full crop, so
the boys would come when it was most convenient; and, in the meantime, Judy would continue
to dig from day to day all that were needed for the kitchen in the little log house by the
river. In spite of her poor crooked body, the mountain girl was strong and well used to hard
work, so the light task was, for her, no hardship at all.

As one will when first coming out of doors in the morning, Judy paused a moment to look about.
The sky, so clear and bright the evening before, was now a luminous gray. The mountains were
lost in a ghostly world of fog, through which the river moved in stealthy silence,--a dull
thing of mystery, with only here and there a touch of silvery light upon its clouded surface.
The cottonwoods and willows, on the opposite shore, were mere dreams of trees,--gray, formless,
and weird. The air was filled with the dank earth-smell. The heavy thundering roar of the never-ending
war of the waters at Elbow Rock came louder and more menacing, but strangely unreal, as if
the mist itself were filled with threatening sound.

But to Judy, the morning was only the beginning of another day;--she looked, but did not see.
To her, the many ever-changing moods of Nature were without meaning. With her basket in hand,
she went down to the lower end of the garden, where she had dug potatoes the time before, and
where she had left the fork sticking upright in the ground.

A few minutes served to fill the basket; but, before starting back to the house, the mountain
girl paused again to look out over the river. Perhaps it was some vague memory of Auntie Sue's
talk, the night before, that prompted her; perhaps it was some instinct, indefinite and obscure;--whatever
it was that influenced her, Judy left her basket, and went to the brink of the high bank above
the eddy for a closer view of the water.

The next instant, with the quick movement of an untamed creature of her native mountain forests,
the girl sprang back, and crouched close to the ground to hide from something she had seen
at the foot of the bank. Every movement of her twisted body expressed amazement and fear. Her
eyes were wild and excited. She looked carefully about, as if for dangers that might be hidden
in the fog. Once, she opened her mouth as if to call. Half-rising, she started as if to run
to the house. But, presently, curiosity apparently overruled her fear, and, throwing herself
flat on the ground she wormed her way back to the brink of the river-bank. Cautiously, without
making a sound, she peered through the tall grass and weeds that fringed the rim above the eddy.

The boat, which some kindly impulse of the river had drawn so gently aside from the stronger
current that would have carried it down the rapids to the certain destruction waiting at Elbow
Rock, still rested with its bow grounded on the shore, against which the eddying water had
pushed it. But the thing that had so startled Judy was a man who was lying, apparently unconscious,
on the wet and muddy bottom-boards of the little craft.

Breathlessly, the girl, looking down from the top of the bank, watched for some movement; but
the dirty huddled heap of wretched humanity was so still that she could not guess whether it
was living or dead. Fearfully, she noted that there were no oars in the boat, nor gun, nor
fishing-tackle of any sort. The man's hat was missing. His clothing was muddy and disarranged.
His position was such that she could not see the face.

Drawing back, Judy looked cautiously about; then, picking up a heavy clod of dirt from the
ploughed edge of the garden, and crouching again at the brink of the bank, ready for instant
flight, she threw the clod into the water near the boat. The still form in the boat made no
movement following the splash. Selecting a smaller clod, the girl threw the bit of dirt into
the stern of the boat itself, where it broke in fragments. And, at this, the figure moved slightly.

"Hit's alive, all right," commented Judy to herself, with a grin of satisfaction, at the result
of her investigation. "But hit's sure time he was a-gittin' up."

Carefully selecting a still smaller bit of dirt, she deliberately tossed it at the figure itself.
Her aim was true, and the clod struck the man on the shoulder, with the result that he stirred
uneasily, and, muttering something which Judy could not hear, half-turned on his back so that
the girl saw the haggard, unshaven face. She saw, too, that, in one hand, the man clutched
an empty whisky bottle.

At sight of the bottle, the mountain girl rose to her feet with an understanding laugh. "Hell!"
she said aloud; "drunk,--that's all--dead drunk. I'll sure fetch him out of hit." And then,
grinning with malicious delight, she proceeded to pelt the man in the boat with clods of dirt
until he scrambled to a sitting posture, and looked up in bewildered confusion.

"If you please," he said, in a hoarse voice, to the sallow, old-young face that grinned down
at him from the top of the bank, "which one of the Devil's imps are you?"

As she looked into that upturned face, Judy's grin vanished. "I sure 'lowed as how you-all
was dead," she explained.

"Well," returned the man in the boat, wearily, "I can assure you that it's not in the least
my fault if I disappoint you. I feel as bad about it as you do. However, I don't think I am
so much alive that it makes any material difference." He lifted the whisky bottle, and studied
it thoughtfully.

"You-all come dad burned near not bein' ary bit alive," returned the girl.

"Yes?" said the man, inquiringly.

"Yep; you sure did come mighty nigh hit. If your old John-boat had a-carried you-all on down
ter Elbow Rock, 'stead of bein' ketched in the eddy here, you-all would sure 'nough been a-talkin'
to the Devil by now."

The man, looking out over the river into the fog, muttered to himself, "I can't even make a
success of dying, it seems."

Again, he regarded the empty bottle in his hand with studied interest. Then, tossing the bottle
into the river, he looked up, once more, to the girl on the bank above.

"Listen, sister!" he said, nervously. "Is there any place around here where I can buy a drink?
I need something rather badly. Where am I, anyway?"

"You-all are at Auntie Sue's place," said Judy; "an' there sure ain't no chance for you-all
ter git ary licker here. Where'd you-all come from, anyhow? How'd you-all git here 'thout no
oars ner paddle ner nothin'? Where was you-all aimin' ter go?"

"Your questions, my good girl, are immaterial and irrelevant," returned the man in the boat.
"The all-important matter before us for consideration is,--how can I get a drink? I MUST have
a drink, I tell you!" He held up his hands, and they were shaking as if with palsy. "And I
must have it damned quick!"

"You-all sure do talk some powerful big words," said Judy, with critical interest. "You-all
sure must be some eddecated. Auntie Sue, now, she talks--"

The man interrupted her: "Who is 'Auntie Sue'?"

"I don't know," Judy returned; "she's just Auntie Sue--that's all I know. She sure is--"

Again the man interrupted: "I think it would be well for me to interview this worthy aunt of
yours." And then, while he raised himself, unsteadily, to his feet, he continued, in a muttering
undertone: "You don't seem to appreciate the situation. If I don't get some sort of liquor
soon, things are bound to happen."

He attempted to step from the boat to the shore; but the instability of the light, flat-bottomed
skiff, together with his own unsteady weakness, combined to land him half in the water and
half on the muddy bank where he struggled helplessly, and, in his weakened condition, would
have slipped wholly into the river had not Judy rushed down the rude steps to his assistance.

With a strength surprising in one of her apparent weakness, the mountain girl caught the stranger
under his shoulders and literally dragged him from the water. When she had further helped him
to his feet, Judy surveyed the wretched object of her beneficence with amused and curious interest.

The man, with his unkempt hair, unshaven, haggard face, bloodshot eyes, and slovenly dishevelled
dress, had appeared repulsive enough while in the boat; but, now, as he stood dripping with
water and covered with mud, there was a touch of the ridiculous in his appearance that brought
a grin to the unlovely face of his rescuer, and caused her to exclaim with unnecessary frankness:
"I'll be dad burned if you-all ain't a thing ter look at, mister!"

As the poor creature, who was shaking as if with the ague, regarded the twisted form, the wry
neck, and the sallow, old-young face of the girl, who was laughing at him, a gleam of sardonic
humor flashed in his bloodshot eyes. "Thanks," he said, huskily; "you are something of a vision
yourself, aren't you?"

The laughter went from Judy's face as she caught the meaning of the cruel words. "I ain't never
laid no claim ter bein' a beauty," she retorted in her shrill, drawling monotone. "But, I kin
tell you-all one thing, mister: Hit was God-A'mighty Hisself an' my drunken pap what made me
ter look like I do. While you,--damn you!--you-all just naturally made yourself what you be."

At the mountain girl's illiterate words, so pregnant with meaning, a remarkable change came
over the face and manner of the man. His voice, even, for the moment, lost its huskiness, and
vibrated with sincere feeling as he steadied himself; and, bowing with courteous deference,
said: "I beg your pardon, miss. That was unkind. You really should have left me to the river."

"You-all would a-drownded, sure, if I had," she retorted, somewhat mollified by the effect
of her observation.

"Which," he returned, "would have been so beautifully right and fitting that it evidently could
not be." And with this cynical remark, his momentary bearing of self-respect was gone.

"Are you-all a-meanin' ter say that you-all was a-wantin' ter drown?"

"Something like that," he returned. And then, with a hint of ugliness in his voice and eyes,
he rasped: "But, look here, girl! do you think I'm going to stand like this all day indulging
in idle conversation with you? Where is this aunt of yours? Can't you see that I've got to
have a drink?"

He started uncertainly toward the steps that led to the top of the bank, and Judy, holding
him by his arm, helped him to climb the steep way. A part of the ascent he made on hands and
knees. Several times he would have fallen except for the girl's support. But, at last, they
gained the top, and stood in the garden.

"That there is the house," said Judy, pointing. "But I don't reckon as how you-all kin git
ary licker there."

The wretched man made no reply; but, with Judy still supporting him, stumbled forward across
the rows of vegetables.

The two had nearly reached the steps at the end of the porch when Auntie Sue came from the
house to see why Judy did not return with the potatoes. The dear old lady paused a moment,
startled at the presence of the unprepossessing stranger in her garden. Then, with an exclamation
of pity, she hurried to meet them.

The man, whose gaze as he shambled along was fixed on the ground, did not notice Auntie Sue
until, feeling Judy stop, he also paused, and raising his head looked full at the beautiful
old lady.

"Why, Judy!" cried Auntie Sue, her low, sweet voice filled with gentle concern. "What in the
world has happened?"

With an expression of questioning bewilderment and rebuke on his haggard face, the man also
turned to the mountain girl beside him.

"I found him in er John-boat what done come ashore last night, down there in the eddy," Judy
explained to Auntie Sue. To the man, she said: "This here is Auntie Sue, mister; but, I don't
reckon as how she's got ary licker for you."

"'Liquor'?" questioned Auntie Sue. "What in the world do you mean, child?" Then quickly to
the stranger;--"My dear man, you are wringing wet. You must have been in the river. Come, come
right in, and let us do something for you." As she spoke, she went toward him with outstretched
hands.

But the wretched creature shrank back from her, as if in fear;--his whole body shaking with
emotion; his fluttering hands raised in a gesture of imploring protest;--while the eyes that
looked up at the saintly countenance of the old gentlewoman were the eyes of a soul sunken
in the deepest hell of shame and humiliation.

Shocked with pitying horror, Auntie Sue paused.

The man's haggard, unshaven face twitched and worked with the pain of his suffering. He bit
his lips and fingered his quivering chin in a vain effort at self-control; and then, as he
looked up at her, the sunken, bloodshot eyes filled with tears that the tormented spirit had
no power to check.

And Auntie Sue turned her face away.

For a little, they stood so. Then, as Auntie Sue faced him again, the stranger, with a supreme
effort of his will, gained a momentary control of his shattered nerves. Drawing himself erect
and standing steady and tall before her, he raised a hand to his uncovered head as if to remove
his hat. When his hand found no hat to remove, he smiled as if at some jest at his own expense.

"I am so sorry, madam," he said,--and his voice was musically clear and cultured. "Please pardon
me for disturbing you? I did not know. This young woman should have explained. You see, when
she spoke of 'Auntie Sue,' I assumed, of course,--I mean,--I expected to find a native woman
who would--" He paused, smiling again, as if to assure her that he fully appreciated the humor
of his ridiculous predicament.

"But, my dear sir," cried Auntie Sue, eagerly, "there is nothing to pardon. Please do come
into the house and let us help you."

But the stranger drew back, shaking his head sadly. "You do not understand, madam. It is not
that my clothes are unpresentable,--it is I, myself, who am unfit to stand in your presence,
much less to enter your house. I thank you, but I must go."

He was turning away, when Auntie Sue reached his side and placed her gentle old hand lightly
on his arm.

"Please, won't you come in, sir? I shall never forgive myself if I let you go like this."

The man's voice was hoarse and shaking, now, as he answered: "For God's sake, madam, don't
touch me! Let me go! You must! I--I--am not myself! You might not be safe with me! Ask her--she
knows!" He turned to Judy.

"He's done said hit, ma'm," said Judy, in answer to Auntie Sue's questioning look. "My pap,
he was that way when he done smashed me up agin the wall, when I was nothin' but a baby, an'
hit made me grow up all crooked an' ugly like what I be now."

With one shamed glance at Auntie Sue, the wretched fellow looked down at the ground. His head
drooped forward. His shoulders sagged. His whole body seemed to shrink. Turning sadly away,
he again started back toward the river.

"Stop!" Auntie Sue's voice rang out imperiously.

The man halted.

"Look at me," she commanded.

Slowly, he raised his eyes. The gentle old teacher spoke with fine spirit, now, but kindly
still: "This is sheer nonsense, my boy. You wouldn't hurt me. Why, you couldn't! Of course,
you are not yourself; but, do you think that I do not know a gentleman when I meet one? Come--"
She held out her hand.

A moment he stood, gazing at her in wondering awe. Then his far-overtaxed strength failed;--his
abused nerves refused to bear more,--and he sank,--a pitiful, cowering heap at her feet. Hiding
his face in his shaking hands, he sobbed like a child.

CHAPTER VI.

IN THE LOG HOUSE BY THE RIVER.

Those two women managed, somehow, to get the almost helpless stranger into the house, where
Auntie Sue, after providing him with nightclothes, left by one of her guests, by tactful entreaty
and judicial commands, persuaded him to go to bed.

Then followed several days and nights of weary watching. There were times when the man lay
with closed eyes, so weak and exhausted that he seemed to be drifting out from these earthly
shores on the deep waters of that wide and unknown sea into which all the streams of life finally
flow. But, always, Auntie Sue miraculously held him back. There were other times when, by all
the rules of the game, he should have worn a strait-jacket;--when his delirium filled the room
with all manner of horrid creatures from the pit; when leering devils and loathsome serpents
and gibbering apes tormented him until his unnatural strength was the strength of a fiend,
and his tortured nerves shrieked in agony. But Auntie Sue perversely ignored the rules of the
game. And never did the man, even in his most terrible moments, fail to recognize in the midst
of the hellish crew of his diseased imagination the silvery-haired old teacher as the angel
of his salvation. Her gentle voice had always power to soothe and calm him. He obeyed her implicitly,
and, like a frightened child, holding fast to her hand would beg piteously for her to protect
and save him.

But no word of the man's low-muttered, broken sentences, nor of his wildest ravings, ever gave
Auntie Sue a clue to his identity. She searched his clothes, but there was not a thing to give
her even his name.

And, yet, that first day, when Judy would have gone to neighbor Tom's for help, Auntie Sue
said "No." She even positively forbade the girl to mention the stranger's presence in the house,
should she chance to talk with passing neighbors. "The river brought him to us, Judy, dear,"
she said. "We must save him. No one shall know his shame, to humiliate and wound his pride
and drag him down after he is himself again. Until he has recovered and is once more the man
I believe him to be, no one must see him or know that he is here; and no one must ever know
how he came to us."

And late, one evening, when Judy was fast asleep, and the man was lying very still after a
period of feverish tossing and muttering, the dear old gentlewoman crept quietly out of the
house into the night. She was gone some time, and when she returned again to the stranger's
bedside she was breathless and trembling as from some unusual exertion. And the following afternoon,
when Judy came to her with the announcement that the boat which had brought the man to them
was no longer in the eddy below the garden, Auntie Sue said, simply, that she was glad it was
gone, and cautioned the girl, again, that the stranger's presence in the house must not be
made known to any one.

When the mountain girl protested, saying, "You-all ain't got no call ter be a-wearin' yourself
ter the bone a-takin' care of such as him," Auntie Sue answered, "Hush, Judy! How do you know
what the poor boy really is?"

To which Judy retorted: "He's just triflin' an' ornery an' no 'count, that's what he is, or
he sure wouldn't been a-floatin' 'round in that there old John-boat 'thout ary gun, or fishin'
lines, or hat even, ter say nothin' of that there whisky bottle bein' plumb empty."

Auntie Sue made no reply to the mountain girl's harsh summing-up of the damning evidence against
the stranger, but left her and went softly to the bedside of their guest.

It was perhaps an hour later that Judy, quietly entering the room, happened upon a scene that
caused her to stand as if rooted to the spot in open-mouthed amazement.

The man was sleeping, and the silvery-haired old maiden-lady, seated on the side of the bed,
was bending over the unconscious stranger and gently stroking his tumbled, red-brown hair,
even as a mother might lovingly caress her sleeping child. And then, as Judy watched, breathless
with wonder, the proud old gentlewoman, bending closer over that still form on the bed, touched
her lips--soft as a rose-petal--to the stranger's brow.

When she arose and saw Judy standing there, Auntie Sue's delicate old cheeks flushed with color,
and her eyes were shining. With a gesture, she commanded the girl to silence, and the two tiptoed
from the room. When they were outside, and Auntie Sue had cautiously closed the door, she faced
the speechless Judy with a deliciously defiant air that could not wholly hide her lovely confusion.

"I--I--was thinking, Judy, how he--how he--might have been--my son."

"Your 'son'!" ejaculated the girl. "Why, ma'm, you-all ain't never even been married, as I've
ever hearn tell, have you?"

Auntie Sue drew her thin shoulders proudly erect, and, lifting her fine old face, answered
the challenging question with splendid spirit: "No, I have never been married; but I might
have been; and if I had, I suppose I could have had a son, couldn't I?"

The vanquished Judy retreated to the kitchen, where, in safety, she sank into a chair, convulsed
with laughter, which she instinctively muffled in her apron.

Then came the day when the man, weak and worn with his struggle, looked up at his gentle old
nurse with the light of sanity in his deep blue eyes. Very tired eyes they were, and filled
with painful memories,--filled, too, with worshipping gratitude and wonder.

She smiled down at him with delighted triumph, and drawing a chair close beside the bed, seated
herself and placed her soft hand on his where it lay on the coverlid.

"You are much better, this morning," she said cheerily. "You will soon be all right, now."
And as she looked into the eyes that regarded hers so questioningly, there was in her face
and manner no hint of doubt, or pretense, or reproach;--only confidence and love.

He spoke slowly, as if feeling for words: "I have been in Hell; and you--you have brought me
out. Why did you do it?"

"Because you are mine," she answered, with her low chuckling laugh. It was so good to have
him able to talk to her rationally after those long hours of fighting.

"Because I am yours?" he repeated, puzzling over her words.

"Yes," she returned, with a hint of determined proprietorship in her voice; "because you belong
to me. You see, that eddy where your boat landed is my property, and so anything that drifts
down the river and lodges there belongs to me. Whatever the river brings to me, is mine. The
river brought you, and so--" She finished with another laugh,--a laugh that was filled with
tender mother-yearning.

The blue eyes smiled back at her for a moment; then she saw them darken with painful memories.

"Oh, yes; the river," he said. "I wanted the river to do something for me, and--and it did
something quite different from what I wanted."

"Of course," she returned, eagerly, "the river is always like that. It always does the thing
you don't expect it to do. Just like life itself. Don't you see? It begins somewhere away off
at some little spring, and just keeps going and going and going; and thousands and thousands
of other springs, scattered all over the country, start streams and creeks and branches that
run into it, and make it bigger and bigger, as it winds and curves and twists along, until
it finally reaches the great sea, where its waters are united with all the waters from all
the rivers in all the world. And in all of its many, many miles, from that first tiny spring
to the sea, there are not two feet of it exactly alike. In all the centuries of its being,
there are never two hours alike. An infinite variety of days and nights--an infinite variety
of skies and light and clouds and daybreaks and sunsets--an infinite number and variety of
currents and shoals and deep places and quiet spots and dangerous rapids and eddies--and, along
its banks, an endless change of hills and mountains and flats and forests and meadows and farms
and cities--and--" She paused, breathless. And then, when he did not speak, but only watched
her, she continued: "Don't you see? Of course, the river never could be what you expect, any
more than life could be exactly what you want and dream it will be."

"Who in the world are you?" he asked, wonderingly. "And what in the world are you doing here
in the backwoods?"

Smiling at his puzzled expression, she answered: "I am Auntie Sue. I am LIVING here in the
backwoods."

"But, your real name? Won't you tell me your name? I must know how to address you."

"Oh, my name is Susan E. Wakefield--MISS Wakefield, if you please. I shall be seventy-one years
old the eighteenth day of next November. And you must call me 'Auntie Sue,'--just as every
one else does."

"Wakefield--Wakefield--where have I seen that name?" He wrinkled his brow in an effort to remember.
"Wakefield--I feel sure that I have heard it, somewhere."

"It is not unlikely," she returned, lightly. "It is not at all an uncommon name. And now that
I am properly introduced, don't you think--?"

He hesitated a moment, then said, deliberately, "My name is Brian Kent."

"That is an Irish name," she said quickly; "and that is why your hair is so nearly red and
your eyes so blue."

"Yes," he returned, "from my mother. And please don't ask me more now, for I can't lie to you,
and I won't tell you the truth." And she saw, again, the dark shadows of painful memories come
into the blue eyes.

Bending over the bed, she laid her soft hand on his brow, and pushed back his heavy hair; and
her sweet old voice was very low and gentle as she said: "My dear boy, I shall never ask you
more. The river brought you to me, and you are mine. You must not even think of anything else,
just now. When you are stronger, and are ready, we will talk of your future; but of your past,
you--"

A loud knock sounded at the door of the living room.

"There is someone at the door," she said hastily. "I must go. Lie still, and go to sleep like
a good boy; won't you?"

Swiftly, she leaned over, and, before he realized, he felt her lips touch his forehead. Then
she was gone, and Brian Kent's Irish eyes were filled with tears. Turning to the wall, he hid
his face in the pillow.

CHAPTER VII.

OFFICERS OF THE LAW.

As Auntie Sue was closing the door of her guest's room carefully behind her, Judy came from
the kitchen in great excitement, and the knocking at the front door of the house was repeated.

"Hit's the Sheriff, ma'm," whispered Judy. "I was just a-comin' ter tell you. I seed 'em from
the kitchen-winder. He's got two other men with him. Their hosses is tied ter the fence in
front. What in hell will we do, now? They are after him in there, sure 's death!"

Auntie Sue's face was white, and her lips trembled,--but only for a moment.

"Go back into the kitchen, Judy, and stay there," she commanded, in a whisper; and went to
open the front door as calmly as if nothing unusual had happened.

Sheriff Knox was a big man, with a bluff, kindly manner, and a voice that made nothing of closed
doors. He returned Auntie Sue's greeting heartily, and, with one of his companions,--a quiet,
business-looking gentleman,--accepted her cordial invitation to come in. The third man of the
party remained near the saddle-horses at the gate.

"Well, Auntie Sue," said the Sheriff, settling his ponderous bulk in one of the old lady's
rocking-chairs, which certainly was not built to carry such a weight, "how are you? I haven't
seen you in a coon's age. I'll swear, though, you ain't a minute older than you was when you
first begun teachin' the little Elbow Rock school up there on the hill, are you?"

"I don't know, Sheriff," Auntie Sue returned, with a nervous little laugh. "I sometimes think
that I am a few days older. I have watched a good many sunsets since then, you know."

The big officer's laughter almost shook the log walls of the house. To his quiet companion,
who had taken a chair near the window, he said: "I'll have to tell you, Ross, that Auntie Sue
owns every sunset in these Ozark Mountains. What was it you paid for them?" He turned again
to their smiling hostess. "Oh, yes; fifty cents an acre for the land and fourteen dollars and
a half for the sunsets. You'll have to be blamed careful not to trespass on the sunsets in
this neighborhood, Ross." Again, his hearty laugh roared out, while his chair threatened to
collapse with the quaking of his massive body.

The gentleman seated at the window laughed quietly, in sympathy.

"You'll be all right, though, Ross," the Sheriff continued, "as long as you're with me. Auntie
Sue and me have been friends for about twenty year, now. I always stop to see her whenever
I'm passing through the Elbow Rock neighborhood, if I ain't in too big a hurry. Stayed with
her a week, once, five years ago, when we was after that Lewis gang. She knows I'd jail any
man on earth that would even touch one of her sunsets."

Then, as if the jesting allusion to his office reminded him of his professional duties, he
added: "I plumb forgot, Auntie Sue, this gentleman is Mr. Ross. He is one of William J. Burns's
crack detectives. Don't be scared, though, he ain't after you."

Auntie Sue, while joining in the laughter, and acknowledging the introduction, regarded the
business-looking gentleman by the window with intense interest.

"I think," she said, slowly,--and the sweetness of her low, cultured voice was very marked
in contrast to the Sheriff's thundering tones,--"I think, sir, that this is the first time
in my life that I ever saw a real detective. I have read about them, of course."

Mr. Ross was captivated by the charm of this beautiful old gentlewoman, who regarded him with
such child-like interest, and who spoke with such sweet frankness and dignity. Smilingly, he
returned:

"I fear, madam, that you would find me very disappointing. No one that I ever knew in my profession
could hope to live up to the reputation given us by the story-books. No secret service man
living can remotely approximate the deeds performed by the detectives of fiction. We are very,
very human, I can assure you."

"I am sure that you, at least, must be very kind," returned Auntie Sue, gently. And the cheeks
of the experienced officer flushed like the cheeks of a schoolboy.

"Mr. Ross, Auntie Sue," said the Sheriff, "is, as I was telling you, one of William J. Burns's
big men."

Auntie Sue gave her attention to her big friend: "Yes?"

The Sheriff continued: "Now, the Burns people, you see, protect the banks all over the country."

"Yes?" came, again, in a tone so low and gentle that the monosyllable was scarcely heard.

The officer's loud voice went on: "And Mr. Ross, here, works most of his time on these bank
cases. Just now, he is trailing a fellow that got away with a lot of money from the Empire
Consolidated Savings Bank, of Chicago, about a month ago;--that is, the man disappeared about
a month ago. He had been stealing along from the bank for about a year,--worked, for them,
you see."

"The Empire Consolidated Savings Bank!" Auntie Sue spoke the words in a voice that was little
more than a whisper. It was to the Empire Consolidated Savings Bank that she had sent the money
which she had received from her brother in Buenos Aires; and Homer T. Ward, the president of
that bank, was one of her old pupils. Why, her stranger guest, in the other room there, was
that very moment wearing one of the bank president's nightshirts.

"And do you"--Auntie Sue addressed the detective--"do you know the man's name, Mr. Ross?"

"Oh, yes," returned the officer, "his name is Brian Kent."

Some source of strength, deep-hidden in her gentle nature, enabled Auntie Sue to control her
emotions, though her voice broke a little as she slowly repeated the man's name, "Brian Kent.
And do I understand, sir, that you have traced the man to this--neighborhood?"

The detective was too skilled not to notice Auntie Sue's manner and the break in her voice;
but he never dreamed that this old gentlewoman's agitation was caused by a deeper interest
than a quite natural fear that a dangerous criminal might be lurking in the immediate vicinity.

"Not exactly, Mrs.--ah--"

"Miss Wakefield,"--she supplied her name with a smile.

With a courteous bow, the detective continued: "We do not know for sure that the man is in
this neighborhood, Miss Wakefield. There is really no cause for you to be alarmed. Even if
he should call at your house, here, you need not be frightened, for I assure you the man is
not at all a dangerous character."

"I am glad," said Auntie Sue; and she laughed a little with a relief more genuine than her
callers knew.

Detective Ross continued as if anxious to finish his unpleasant duty: "It is too bad for us
to be disturbing you with this business, Miss Wakefield, and I hope you will forgive us; but,
the case is like this: We traced our man to the little town of Borden, some forty miles up
the river from here. He disappeared from the hotel one night, leaving his suit-case and, apparently,
everything he had with him, and not a soul that we can find has seen him since. Of course,
everybody says 'suicide.' He had been drinking heavily and acting rather queer the two or three
days he was at the hotel,--it seems. But I am not willing, yet, to accept the suicide idea
as final, because it would be too easy for him to give things that appearance in order to throw
us off; and I can't get away from the fact that a John-boat that was tied to the bank near
the hotel managed to break loose and drift off down the river that same night. Working on my
theory, we are following down the river, trying to get trace of either the boat or the man.
So far, we haven't heard of either, which rather strengthens me in my belief that the boat
and the man went away together. He is probably traveling nights, and lying up under the willows
in daylight. But he will be compelled to show himself somewhere, soon, in order to get something
to eat, for he couldn't have taken much with him, trying, as he was, to create the impression
that he had committed suicide. You have a wonderful view of the river here, Miss Wakefield."

"Yes, sir; it is beautiful from the porch."

"You spend a good deal of time on the porch, do you?"

"Yes, sir."

"And you would be quite likely to notice any boat passing, wouldn't you?"

"Yes, sir."

"Could you see a boat at night,--in the moonlight, I mean?"

"I could if it were well out in the middle of the stream, away from the shadow of the trees,
along the bank."

"Have you seen any boats pass lately, Miss Wakefield?"

"No, sir; I haven't seen a boat on the river for a month, at least."

"Dead certain about it, are you, Auntie Sue?" asked the Sheriff.

"Yes, sir; I am very sure," she returned. "Judy and I were talking about it yesterday."

"Who is Judy?" asked the detective.

The Sheriff answered, "Just a girl that lives with Auntie Sue."

And Auntie Sue added: "I know Judy has seen no boats passing, because, as I say, we were talking
about it."

"I see," said the detective. "And may I ask, Miss Wakefield, if any one--any stranger, I mean--has
called at the house lately, or if you have seen any one in the vicinity?"

The gentle old lady hesitated.

The officers thought she was searching her memory to be sure before she answered.

Then Auntie Sue said, deliberately: "No, sir; we have not seen a stranger in this vicinity
for several weeks. The last one was a mule-buyer, who stopped to ask if he was on the right
road to Tom Warden's; and that must have been fully six weeks ago."

The detective looked at Sheriff Knox.

"Well," said the big officer, "I reckon we might as well push along."

The two men arose.

"Oh, but surely you will stay for dinner," said Auntie Sue, while her dear heart was faint
with fear lest they accept, and thus bring about who could say what disastrous consequences
through their meeting with Judy.

"Not this time, Auntie Sue," returned the Sheriff. "Mr. Ross is anxious to get on down the
river as fast as he can. He's got men on watch at White's Crossing, and if our man ain't passed
there, or if we don't strike his trail somewhere before we get there, we will jump back on
the railroad, and get some boy to bring the horses through later."

"I see," returned Auntie Sue. And to the detective she added, smiling: "I am sure it must be
very difficult for any one to escape you, Mr. Ross. I have read such wonderful things about
Mr. Burns and the work of his organization; and now that I have met you,--a real live detective,--I
shall be very careful, indeed, about what I do in the future. I shouldn't want to have you
on my track, I assure you."

The two men laughed heartily, and the detective, as he extended his hand in farewell, returned:
"I count it a great privilege to have met you, Miss Wakefield; and if you will promise to do
one thing for me, I'll agree to be very lenient with you if I am ever assigned to a case in
which you are to be brought to justice."

"I promise," returned the old lady, quickly. "I really wouldn't dare to refuse under the circumstances,
would I? What do you want me to do, Mr. Ross?"

"If this man Brian Kent should happen to appear in this vicinity, will you get a message as
quickly as possible, at any cost, to Sheriff Knox?"

"Why, of course," agreed Auntie Sue. "But you have not yet told me what the man looks like,
Mr. Ross."

"He is really a fine looking chap," the detective answered. "Thirty years old--fully six feet
tall--rather slender, but well built--weighs about one hundred fifty--a splendid head--smooth
shaven--reddish hair--dark blue eyes--and a high, broad forehead. He is of Irish extraction--is
cultured--very courteous in his manner and speech--dresses well--and knows a lot about books
and authors and such things."

"I would surely know him from that description," said Auntie Sue, thinking of the wretched
creature who had fallen, sobbing, at her feet so short a time before. "But, you do not make
him seem like a criminal at all. It is strange that a man such as you describe should be a
fugitive from the law, is it not?"

"We come in contact with many strange things in our business, Miss Wakefield," the Burns operative
answered--a little sadly, Auntie Sue thought. "Life itself is so strange and complex, though
you in your quiet retreat, here, can scarcely find it so."

"Indeed, I find life very wonderful, Mr. Ross, even here in my little house by the river,"
she answered, slowly.

Sheriff Knox held out a newspaper to Auntie Sue: "Just happened to remember that I had it in
my pocket," he said. "It gives a pretty full account of this fellow Kent's case. You will notice
there is a big reward offered for his capture. If you can catch him for us, you'll make enough
money to keep you mighty nigh all the rest of your life." And the officer's great laugh boomed
out at the thought of the old school-teacher as a thief-catcher.

"By the way, Sheriff," said Auntie Sue, as they were finally saying good-bye at the door, "you
didn't happen to ask at Thompsonville for my mail, did you, as you came through?" Her voice
was trembling, now, with eagerness and anxiety.

"I'm plumb sorry, Auntie Sue, but I didn't. You see, we were so busy on this job, I clean forgot
about stopping here; and, besides, we might have caught our man before we got this far, you see."

"Of course," returned Auntie Sue, "I should have thought of that; but I have been rather anxious
about an important letter that seems to have been delayed. Some of the neighbors will probably
be going to the office to-day, though. Good-bye! You know you are always welcome, Sheriff;
and you, too, Mr. Ross, if you should ever happen to be in this part of the country again."

"A wonderful old woman, Ross," commented Sheriff Knox as they were riding away. And the quiet,
business-looking detective, whose life had been spent in combating crime and deception, answered,
as he waved farewell to Auntie Sue, who watched them from the door of the little log house
by the river, "A very wonderful woman, indeed,--the loveliest old lady I have ever met,--and
the most remarkable."

CHAPTER VIII.

THAT WHICH IS GREATER THAN THE LAW.

When she had watched Sheriff Knox and his two companions ride out of sight, Auntie Sue turned
slowly back into the house to face Judy, who stood accusingly in the kitchen doorway.

For what seemed a long time, the old gentlewoman and the deformed mountain girl stood silently
looking at each other. Then Auntie Sue nervously crossed the room to lay the newspaper, which
the Sheriff had given her, on the table beside her basket of sewing.

Without speaking, Judy followed her, watching every movement intently.

Turning to face her companion again, Auntie Sue stood, still speechless, clasping and unclasping
her thin old hands.

Judy spoke in her shrill, drawling monotone: "You-all have sure fixed hit this here time, hain't
you? Can't you-all see what a hell of a hole you've done got us inter?"

When Auntie Sue apparently could not reply, Judy continued: "Just as if hit wasn't more 'n
enough for you-all ter go an' wear yourself plumb out a-takin' keer of that there ornery, no-'count
feller, what I never ought ter dragged out of the river nohow. An', now, you-all got ter go
an' just naturally lie like you did ter the Sheriff an' that there deteckertive man. I was
plumb scared to death a-listenin' ter you through the crack in the kitchen door. I 'lowed every
minute they'd ketch you, sure. My Lord-A'mighty! ma'm, can't you-all figger what'll happen
ter weuns if they ever finds out that weuns done had him hid right here in this here house
all the time? I never heard tell of such dad burned, fool doin's in all my born days! I sure
wish ter God that there old John-boat had a-tuck him off down the river an' smashed him up
agin Elbow Rock, like hit ort, an' not a-fetched him ter our door ter git weuns in jail for
savin' his worthless, no-'count hide,--I sure do!"

"But, Judy, I never in all my life did such a thing before," said Auntie Sue in a tremulous
whisper, too overwrought to speak aloud.

"You-all ain't a-needin' ter do hit but onct, neither. Onct is sure a heap plenty for that
there big Sheriff man. Just look what he did ter my pap! He's jailed pap seven times, that
I kin rec'lect. God-A'mighty knows how many times he ketched him 'fore I was borned. An' pap,
he didn't do so mighty much ary time, neither."

"I just had to do it, Judy, dear," protested Auntie Sue. "It seemed as if I simply could not
tell the truth: something wouldn't let me."

Judy, unheeding her companion's agitation, continued reviewing the situation: "An' just look
at all the money you-all done lost!"

"Money?" questioned Auntie Sue.

"Yep, 'money:'--that there reward what they'd a-paid you-all if you-all hadn't a-lied like
you did. I reckon as how there'd a-been as much, maybe, as what was in that there letter you-all
done sent ter the bank an' ain't never heard tell of since. Hit's most likely clean gone by
now, an' here you done gone an' throw'd this other away,--plumb throw'd hit away!"

At this, Auntie Sue's spirit suddenly flashed into fiery indignation.

"Judith Taylor," she said sharply, "how can you suggest such a wicked thing? Why, I would--I
would--DIE before I would accept a penny for doing such a thing!"

And it was Judy, now, who stood silent and abashed before the aroused Auntie Sue.

"Don't ever speak of such a thing again!" continued the old lady. "And remember, we must be
more careful than ever, now, not to let any one--not a soul--know that Mr.--Mr.--Burns is in
the house, or that we ever saw him!"

"That there deteckertive man said as how the feller's name was Brian Kent, didn't be?" muttered
the sullen Judy.

"I don't care what the detective man said!" retorted Auntie Sue. "I am telling you that his
name is Brian Burns, and you had better remember it! You had better remember, too, that if
anybody ever finds out the truth about him, you and I will go right along to jail with him!"

"Yes, ma'm; I sure ain't aimin' ter forgit that," replied the humbled Judy; and she slouched
away to the kitchen.

Auntie Sue went to the door of Brian Kent's room. But, with her hand outstretched toward the
latch, she hesitated. Had he heard? The Sheriff's voice had been so loud. She feared to enter,
yet she knew that she must. At last, she knocked timidly, and, when there was no answer, knocked
again, louder. Cautiously, she opened the door.

The man lay with his face to the wall,--to all appearances fast asleep.

She tiptoed to the bed, and stood looking down upon the stranger for whom, without a shadow
of reason,--one would have said,--she had violated one of the most deeply rooted principles
of her seventy years.

To Auntie Sue, daughter of New England Puritanism, and religious to the deeps of her being,
a lie was abhorrent,--and she had lied,--deliberately, carefully, and with painstaking skill
she had lied. She had not merely evaded the truth; she had lied,--and that to save a man of
whom she knew nothing except that he was a fugitive from the law. And the strangest thing about
it was this, that she was glad. She could not feel one twinge of regret for her sin. She could
not even feel that she had, indeed, sinned. She had even a feeling of pride and triumph that
she had lied so successfully. She was troubled, though, about this new and wholly unexpected
development in her life. It had been so easy for her. She had lied so naturally, so instinctively.

She remembered how she had spoken to Brian Kent of the river and of life. She saw, now, that
the river symbolized not only life as a whole, with its many ever-changing conditions and currents,
amid which the individual must live;--the river symbolized, as truly, the individual life,
with its ever-changing moods and motives,--its ever-varying and often-conflicting currents
of instinct and training,--its infinite variety of intellectual deeps and shallows,--its gentle
places of spiritual calm,--and its wild and turbulent rapids of dangerous passion.

"What hitherto unsuspected currents in her life-river," she asked herself, "had carried her
so easily into falsehood? What strange forces were these," she wondered, "that had set her
so suddenly against honesty and truthfulness and law and justice? And this stranger,--this
wretched, haggard-faced, drunken creature, who had been brought by the mysterious currents
of life to her door,--what was there in him that so compelled her protecting interest? What
was it within him, deeply hidden under the repellent exterior of his being, that had so awakened
in her that strange feeling of possession,--of motherhood?"

It was not strange that, in her mental and spiritual extremity, the dear old gentlewoman's
life-long habit should lead her to kneel beside the stranger's bed and pray for understanding
and guidance. It was significant that she did not ask her God to forgive the lie.

And, presently, as she prayed, she felt the man on the bed move. Then a hand lightly touched
her hair. She remained very still for a little,--her head still bowed. The hand that touched
so reverently the silvery gray hair trembled a little. Slowly, the old teacher raised her face
to look at him; and the Irish blue eyes of Brian Kent were wide with wondering awe and glowing
with a light that warmed her heart and strengthened her.

"Why did you do it?" he asked. "You wonderful, wonderful woman! Why did you do it?"

Slowly, she rose from her knees to sit beside him on the bed. "You heard?"

He nodded his head, not trusting himself to speak.

"I was afraid the Sheriff talked too loud," she said.

"But, why did you do it?" he persisted.

"I think it was because I couldn't do anything else," she answered, with her little chuckling
laugh. Then she added, seriously: "How could I let them take you away? Are you not mine? Did
not the river bring you to me?"

"I must tell you," he answered, sadly, "that what the detective told you about me is true."

"Yes?" she answered, smiling.

"I was a clerk in the Empire Consolidated Savings Bank," he continued, "and I stole money,--for
nearly a year I stole,--not large sums, but a little at a time. Then, when I knew that it was
going to be discovered, I took quite a lot, and ran away."

"Yes?" said Auntie Sue.

"Do you not care that I am a thief?" he questioned, wonderingly.

"Oh, yes; I care very much," she returned. "But, you see, after all, your stealing is a little
thing that can be made all right. Your being a thief is so small in comparison with other things
which you might have been, but which you are not, and of so little importance in comparison
with what you really ARE, that I can't feel so very bad about it."

"But--but--my drinking,--my condition when--" He could not go on.

"Why, you see," she answered, "I can't think of THAT man as being YOU at all. THAT was something
that the accident of your being a thief did to you,--like catching cold, and being sick, after
accidentally falling in the river."

After a little silence, the man spoke, slowly: "I suppose every thief, when he is caught, says
the same thing; but I really never wanted to do it. Circumstances--" he paused, biting his
lip, and turning away.

"What was she like?" asked Auntie Sue, gently.

"She?" and his face reddened.

"Yes, I have observed that, to a man, 'circumstances' nearly always mean a woman. To a woman,
of course, it is a man."

"I cannot tell you about her, now," he said. "Some day, perhaps, when I am further away from
it. But she is not at all like you."

And this answer, for some strange reason, brought a flush of pleasure to the face of the old
schoolteacher.

"I did not mean for you to tell me now," she returned. "I only wanted you to know that, even
though I am an old maid, I can understand."

She left him then, and went to attend to her simple household duties.

It was not until quite late in the evening that Auntie Sue took up the newspaper which Sheriff
Knox had given her. Judy had retired to her room, and Brian Burns--as they had agreed he should
be called--was fast asleep.

To-morrow, Brian was going to sit up. His clothing had been washed and ironed and pressed,
and Auntie Sue was making some little repairs in the way of darning and buttons. She had finished,
and was putting her needle and scissors in the sewing-basket on the table beside her, when
she noticed the paper, which she had forgotten.

The article headed "BANK CLERK DISAPPEARS" was not long. It told, in a matter-of-fact, newspaper
way, how Brian Kent had, at different times, covering a period of several months, taken various
sums from the Empire Consolidated Savings Bank, and gave, so far as was then known, the accumulated
amount which he had taken. The dishonest clerk had employed several methods in his operations;
but the particular incident--read Auntie Sue--which had led to the exposure of Kent's stealings
was the theft of a small sum of money in bank-notes, which had been sent to the bank in a letter
by one of the bank's smaller depositors.

The newspaper fell from Auntie Sue's hand. Mechanically, she fingered the garment lying in her lap.

She, too, had sent a sum of money in a letter for deposit to her small account in this bank
from which Brian Kent had stolen. She would not have sent the familiar paper currency of the
United States that way; but, this money was in Argentine notes. Her brother from far-away Buenos
Aires had sent it to her, saying that it would help to keep her during the closing years of
her life; and she had added it to her small savings with a feeling of deepest gratitude that
her last days were now fully provided for. And she had received from the bank no acknowledgment
of her letter with its enclosures.

Taking up the paper with hands that trembled so she scarce could distinguish the words, she
read the paragraph again.

Suddenly, she recalled the man's puzzled expression when she had told him her name, and she
seemed to hear him say, again, "Wakefield? Wakefield? Where have I seen that name?"

She looked at the date of the paper. Beyond all doubt, the man sleeping there in the other
room;--the man whom she had saved from a suicide's end in the river;--whom she had nursed through
the hell of delirium tremens;--whom she had yearned over as over her own son, and for whom,
to save from the just penalty of his crime, she had lied--beyond all doubt that man had robbed
her of the money that was to have insured to her peace and comfort in the closing years of
her life.

Carefully, Auntie Sue laid the garment she had just mended with such loving care, with the
rest of Brian Kent's clothing, on the near-by chair. Rising, she went with slow, troubled step
to the porch.

There was no moon, that night, to turn the waters of The Bend into a stream of silvery light.
But the stars were shining bright and clear, and she could see the river where it made its
dark, mysterious way between the walls of shadowy hills; and borne to her ears on the gentle
night wind came the deep, thundering roar of the angry waters at Elbow Rock.

For a long time she stood there on the porch looking into the night, with the light from the
open door of her little house behind her; and she felt very lonely, very tired, and very old.
With her beautiful old face upturned to the infinite sky, where shining worlds are scattered
in such lavish profusion, she listened, listened to the river that, with its countless and
complex currents, swept so irresistibly onward along the way that was set for it by Him who
swung those star-worlds in the limitless space of that mighty arch above. And something of
the spirit that broods ever over the river must have entered into the soul of Auntie Sue. When
she turned back into the house, there was a smile on her face, though her eyes were wet with tears.

Going to the chair that held Brian Kent's clothing, she took the garments in her arms and pressed
them to her lips. Then she carried them to his room.

For some time she remained in that darkened chamber beside the sleeping man.

When she returned to the living-room, she again took up the newspaper. Very carefully, that
her sleeping companions in the house might not hear her, she went to the kitchen, the paper
in her hand. Very carefully, that no sound should betray her act, she burned the paper in the
kitchen stove.

CHAPTER IX.

AUNTIE SUE'S PROPOSITION.

During the next few days, Brian Kent rapidly regained his strength. No one seeing the tall,
self-possessed gentleman who sat with Auntie Sue on the porch overlooking the river, or strolled
about the place, could have imagined him the wretchedly repulsive creature that Judy had dragged
from the eddy so short a time before. And no one,--exempting, perhaps, detective Ross,--would
have identified this bearded guest of Auntie Sue's as the absconding bank clerk for whose arrest
a substantial reward was offered.

But Mr. Ross had departed from the Ozarks, to report to the Empire Consolidated Savings Bank
that, to the best of his knowledge and belief, Brian Kent had been drowned. Homer T. Ward,
himself, wrote Auntie Sue about the case, for the detective had told the bank president about
his visit to the little log house by the river, and the banker knew that his old teacher would
wish to hear the conclusion of the affair.

The facts upon which the detective based his conclusion that Brian Kent was dead, were, first
of all, the man's general character, temperament, habits, and ambitions,--aside from his thefts
from the bank,--prior to the time of his exposure and flight, and his known mental and physical
condition at the time he disappeared from the hotel in the little river town of Borden.

The detective reasoned (and there are thousands of cases that could be cited to support his
contention) that by such a man as Brian Kent,--knowing, as he must have known, the comparative
certainty of his ultimate arrest and conviction, and being in a mental and nervous condition
bordering on insanity, as a result of his constant brooding over his crime and the excessive
drinking to which he had resorted for relief,--by such a man, death would almost inevitably
be chosen rather than a life of humiliation and disgrace and imprisonment.

Acting upon the supposition, however, that the man had gone down the river in that missing
boat, and that the appearance of suicide was planned by the fugitive to trick his pursuers,
the detectives ascertained that he had provided no supplies for a trip down the river. The
man would be compelled to seek food. The mountain country through which he must pass was sparsely
settled, and for a distance that would have taken a boat many days to cover, the officers visited
every house and cabin and camp on either side of the river without finding a trace of the hunted
man. The river had been watched night and day. The net set by the Burns operatives touched
every settlement and village for many miles around. And, finally, the battered and broken wreck
of the lost boat had been found some two miles below Elbow Rock.

". . . And so, my dear Auntie Sue," Banker Ward wrote, in conclusion, "you may rest in peace,
secure in the certainty that my thieving bank clerk is not lurking anywhere in your beautiful
Ozarks to pounce down upon you unawares in your little house beside the river. The man is safely
dead. There is no doubt about it. I regret, more than I can express, that you have been in
any way disturbed by the affair. Please think no more about it.

"By the way, you made a great impression upon detective Ross. He was more than enthusiastic
over your graciousness and your beauty. I never heard him talk so much before in all the years
I have known him. Needless to say, I indorsed everything he said about the dearest old lady
in the world, and then we celebrated by dining together and drinking a toast to Auntie Sue. . . ."

Auntie Sue went with the letter to Brian, and acquainted him with that part of the banker's
communication which related to the absconding clerk; but, about her relation to the president
of the Empire Consolidated Savings Bank, she said nothing.

"Isn't it splendid!" she finished, her face glowing with delight.

"Splendid?" he echoed, looking at her with grave, questioning eyes.

"Why, yes, of course!" she returned. "Aren't you glad to be so dead, under the circumstances?
Think what it means! You are free, now. No horrid old detectives dogging your steps, or waiting
behind every bush and tree to pounce upon you. There is nothing, now, to prevent your being
the kind of man that you always meant to be,--and really ARE, too,--except for your--your accidental
tumble in the river," she finished with her low chuckling laugh. "And, some day," she went
on, with conviction, "when you have established yourself,--when you have asserted your REAL
self, I mean,--and have paid back every penny of the money, Homer T. Ward and Mr. Ross and
everybody will be glad that they didn't catch you before you had a chance to save yourself."

"And you, Auntie Sue?" Brian's voice was deep with feeling: "And you?"

"Me? Oh, I am as glad, now, as I can ever be, because, you see, to me it is already done."

For a long minute he looked at her without speaking, then turned his face away to gaze out
over the river and the hills; but his eyes were the eyes of one who looks without seeing.

Slowly, he said: "I wish I could be sure. There was a time when I was--when I believed in myself.
It seems to me, now, that it was years and years ago. I thought, then, that nothing could shake
me in my purpose; that nothing could check me in my ambition. I saw myself going straight on
to the goal I had set for myself as certainly as--well, as your river ever there goes on to
the sea. But now--" He shook his head sadly.

Auntie Sue laughed. "You foolish boy. My river out there doesn't go straight at all. It meets
all sorts of obstacles, and is beset by all sorts of conflicting influences, and so is forced
to wind and twist and work its way along; but, the big, splendid thing about the river is that
it keeps going on. It never stops to turn back. No matter what happens to it, it never stops.
It goes on and on and on unto the very end, until it finally loses itself in the triumph of
its own achievement,--the sea."

"And you think that I can go on?" he asked, doubtingly.

"I know you can go on," she answered with conviction.

"But, why are you so sure?"

"Perhaps," she returned, smiling, "seventy years makes one sure of some things."

Ho exclaimed passionately: "But you do not know--you cannot know--how my life, my dreams, my
plans, my hopes, my--everything--has been broken into bits!"

She answered calmly, pointing to Elbow Rock: "Look there, Brian. See how the river is broken
into bits. See how its smoothly flowing, onward sweep is suddenly changed to wild, chaotic
turmoil; how it rages and fumes and frets and smashes itself against the rocks. But it goes
on just the same. Life cannot be always calm and smoothly flowing like the peaceful Bend. But
life can always go on. Life must always go on. And you will find, my dear boy, that a little
way below Elbow Rock there is another quiet stretch."

When he spoke again there was a note of almost reverence in his voice.

"Auntie Sue, was there ever a break in your life? Were your dreams and plans ever smashed into
bits?"

For a little, she did not answer; then she said, bravely: "Yes, Brian; several times. Once,--years
and years ago,--I do not know how I managed to go on. I felt, then, as you feel now; but, somehow,
I managed, and so found the calm places. The last hard spot came quite recently." She paused,
wondering what he would do if she were to tell him how he himself had made the hard spot. "But,
now," she continued, "I am hoping that the rest of the way will be calm and untroubled."

"I wish I could help to make it so!" he cried impulsively.

"Why, you can," she returned quickly. "Of course you can. Perhaps that is why the current landed
your boat at my garden, instead of carrying you on down the rapids to Elbow Rock. Who can say?"

A new light kindled in the man's eyes as his sensitive nature took fire at Auntie Sue's words.
"I could do anything for a woman like you, Auntie Sue," he said quietly, but with a conviction
that left no room for doubt. "But you must tell me what I am to do."

She answered: "You are simply to go on with your life--just as if no Elbow Rock had ever disturbed
you; just as the river goes on--to the end."

She left him, then, to think out his problem alone; for the teacher of so many years' experience
was too wise not to know when a lesson was finished.

But when the end of the day was come, they again sat together on the porch and watched the
miracle of the sunset hour. And no word was spoken by them, now, of life and its problems and
its meanings. As one listens to the song of a bird without thought of musical notes or terms;
as one senses the fragrance of a flower without thought of the chemistry of perfume; as one
feels the presence of spring in the air without thought of the day of the week, so they were
conscious of the beauty, the glory, and the peace of the evening.

Only when the soft darkness of the night lay over the land, and river and mountain and starry
sky were veiled in dreamy mystery, did Auntie Sue speak: "Oh, it is so good to have some one
to share it with,--some one who understands. I am very lonely, sometimes, Brian. I wonder if
you know?"

"Yes, Auntie Sue, I know, for I have been lonely, too."

And so the old gentlewoman, whose lifework was so nearly finished, and the man in the flush
of his manhood years, whose life had been so nearly wrecked, were drawn very close by a something
that came to them out of the beauty and the mystery of that hour.

The next day, Brian told Auntie Sue that he would leave on the morrow.

"Leave?" she echoed in dismay. "Why, Brian, where are you going?"

"I don't exactly know," he returned; "but, of course, I must go somewhere, out into the world
again."

"And why must you 'go somewhere, out into the world again'?" she demanded.

"To work," he answered, smiling. "If I am to go on, as you say, I must go where I can find
something to do."

"If that isn't just like you--you child!" cried the old teacher. "You are all alike,--you boys
and girls. You all must have something to do; always, it is 'something to do'."

"Well," he returned, "and must we not have something to do?"

"You will do something, certainly," she answered; "but, before you can DO anything that is
worth doing, you must BE something. Life isn't DOING;--it is BEING."

"I wonder if that was not the real reason for my wretched failures," said Brian, thoughtfully.

"It is the real reason for most of our failures," she returned. "And so you are not going to
fail again. You are not going away somewhere, you don't know where, to do something you don't
know what. You are going to stay right here, and just BE something. Then, when the time comes,
you will do whatever is yours to do as naturally and as inevitably as the birds sing, as the
blossoms come in the spring, or as the river finds its way to the sea."

And more than ever Brian Kent felt in the presence of Auntie Sue as a little boy to whom the
world had grown suddenly very big and very wonderful.

But, after a while, he shook his head, smiling wistfully. "No, no, Auntie Sue, that sounds
all true and right enough, but it can't be. I must go just the same."

"Why can't it be, Brian?"

"For one thing," he returned, "I cannot risk the danger to you. After all, as long as I am
living, there is a chance that my identity will be discovered, and you--no, no; I must not!"

"As for that," she answered quickly, "the chances of your being identified are a thousand times
greater if you go into the world again too soon. Some day, of course, you must go; but you
are safer now right here. And"--she added quickly--"it would be no easier for me, dear boy,
to--to--have it happen somewhere away from me. You are mine, you know, no matter where you go."

"But, Auntie Sue," he protested, "I am not a gentleman of means that I can do nothing indefinitely;
neither am I capable of living upon your hospitality for an extended period. I must earn my
bread and butter."

The final sentence came with such a lifting of his head, such a look of stern decision, and
such an air of pride, that the gentle old school-teacher laughed until her eyes were filled
with tears; and Judy, at the crack in the kitchen door, wondered if the mistress of the little
log house by the river were losing her mind.

"Oh, Brian! Brian!" cried Auntie Sue, wiping her eyes. "I knew you would come to the 'bread
and butter' at last. That is where all our philosophies and reasonings and arguments come at
last, don't they? Just 'bread and butter,' that is all. And I love you for it. Of course you
can't live upon my hospitality,--and I couldn't let you if you would. And if you WOULD, I wouldn't
let you if I could. I am no more a lady of means, my haughty sir, than you are a gentleman
of independent fortune. The fact is, Brian, dear, I suspect that you and I are about the two
poorest people in the world,--to be anything like as pretentiously respectable and properly
proud as we are."

When the man could make no reply, but only looked at her with a much-puzzled and still-proud
expression, she continued, half-laughingly, but well pleased with him: "Please, Brian, don't
look so haughtily injured. I had no intention of insulting you by offering charity. Far from it."

Instantly, the man's face changed. He put out his hands protestingly, and his blue eyes filled,
as he said, impulsively. "Auntie Sue, after what you have done for me, I--"

She answered quickly: "We are considering the future. What has been, is past. Our river is
already far beyond that point in its journey. Don't let us try to turn the waters back. I promise
you I am going to be very, very practical, and make you pay for EVERYTHING."

Smiling, now, he waited for her to explain.

"I must tell you, first," she began, "that, except for a very small amount in the--in a savings
bank, I have nothing to provide for my last days except this little farm."

"What a shame," Brian Kent exclaimed, "that a woman like you can give her life to the public
schools for barely enough salary to keep her alive during her active years, and then left in
her old age with no means of support. It is a national disgrace."

Auntie Sue chuckled with appreciation of the rather grim humor of the situation. What would
Brian Kent, indignant at the public neglect of the school-teacher, say of the man who had robbed
her of the money that was to provide for her closing years? "After all, most public sins are
only individual sins at the last," she said, musingly.

"I beg your pardon," said Brian, not in the least seeing the relevancy of her words.

Auntie Sue came quickly back to her subject: "Only thirty acres of my little farm is under
cultivation. The remaining fifty acres is wild timberland. If I could have that fifty acres
also in cultivation, with the money that the timber would bring,--which would not be a great
deal,--I would be fairly safe for the--for the rest of my evening," she finished with a smile.
"Do you see?"

"You mean that I--that you want me to stay here and work for you?"

"I mean," she answered, "that, if you choose to stay for awhile, you need not feel that you
would be accepting my hospitality as charity," she returned gently. "I am not exactly offering
you a job: I am only showing you how you could, without sacrificing your pride, remain in this
quiet retreat for awhile before returning to the world."

"It would be heaven, Auntie Sue," he returned earnestly. "I want to stay so bad that I fear
myself. Let me think it over until to-morrow. Let me be sure that I am doing the right thing,
and not merely the thing I want to do."

She liked his answer, and did not mention the subject again until Brian himself was ready.
And, strangely enough, it was poor, twisted Judy who helped him to set matters straight.

CHAPTER X.

BRIAN KENT DECIDES.

Brian had walked along the river-bank below the house to a spot just above the point where
the high bluff jutting out into the river-channel forms Elbow Rock.

The bank here is not so high above the roaring waters of the rapids, for the spur of the mountain
which forms the cliff lies at a right angle to the river, and the greater part of the cliff
is thus on the shore, with its height growing less and less as it merges into the main slope
of the mountain-side. From the turn in the road, in front of the house, a footpath leads down
the bank of the river to the cliff, and, climbing stairlike up the face of the steep bluff,
zigzags down the easier slope of the down-river side, to come again into the road below. The
road itself, below Elbow Rock, is forced by the steep side of the mountain-spur and the precipitous
bluff to turn inland from the river, and so, climbing by an easier grade up past Tom Warden's
place, crosses the ridge above the schoolhouse, and comes back down the mountain again in front
of Auntie Sue's place, to its general course along the stream. The little path forms thus a
convenient short cut for any one following the river road on foot.

Brian, seated on the river-bank a little way from the path where it starts up the bluff, was
trying to decide whether it would be better for him to follow his desire and stay with Auntie
Sue for a few weeks or months, or whether he should not, in spite of the land he might clear
for her, return to the world where he could more quickly earn the money to pay back that which
he had stolen.

And as he sat there, the man was conscious that he had reached one of those turning-points
that are found in every life where results, momentous and far-reaching, are dependent upon
comparatively unimportant and temporary issues. He could not have told why, and yet he felt
a certainty that, for him, two widely separated futures were dependent upon his choice. Nor
could he, by thinking, discover what those futures held for him, nor which he should choose.
Even as his boat that night had hung on the edge of the eddy,--hesitating on the dividing-line
between the two currents,--so the man himself now felt the pull of his life-currents, and hesitated,--undecided.

Looking toward the house, he thought how like the life offered by Auntie Sue was to the quiet
waters of The Bend, and--his mind finished the simile--how like the life to which he would
go was to the rapids at Elbow Rock; and, yet, he reflected, the waters could never reach the
sea without enduring the turmoil of the rapids. And, again, the thought came, "The Bend is
just as much the river as the troubled passage around the rock."

When he had given up life, and, to all intent and purpose, had left life behind him, the river,
without his will or knowledge, had mysteriously elected to save him from the death he had chosen
as his only refuge from the utter ruin that had seemed so inevitable. As the currents of the
river had carried his boat to the eddy at the foot of Auntie Sue's garden, the currents of
life had mysteriously brought him to the saving influence of Auntie Sue herself. Should he
push out again into the stream to face the danger he knew beset such a course? or should he
wait for a season in the secure calm of the harbor she offered until he were stronger? Brian
Kent knew, instinctively, that there was in the wisdom and love of Auntie Sue's philosophy
and faith a strength that would, if he could make it his, insure his safe passage through every
danger of life, and yet--The man's meditations were interrupted by a chance look toward the
bluff which towered above him.

Judy was climbing the steep trail.

Curiously, Brian watched the deformed mountain girl as she made her way up the narrow, stairlike
path, and her cutting words came back to him: "God-A'mighty and my drunken pap made me like
I am. But you,--damn you!--you made yourself what you be." And Auntie Sue had said that the
all-important thing in life was not to DO something, but to BE something.

The girl, who had gained a point halfway to the top of the bluff, paused to look searchingly
about, and Brian, who was half-hidden by the bushes, started to call to her, thinking she might
be looking for him; but some impulse checked him and he remained silently watching her. Climbing
hurriedly a little higher up the path Judy again stopped to look carefully around, as if searching
the vicinity for some one. Then, once more, she went on until she stood on top of the cliff;
and now, as she looked about over the surrounding country, she called: "Mr. Burns! Oh, Mr.
Burns! Who-o-e-e! Mr. Burns!"

Brian's lips were parted to answer the call when something happened on top of the bluff which
held him for the moment speechless.

From beyond where Judy stood on the brink of the cliff, a man's head and shoulders appeared.
Brian saw the girl start and turn to face the newcomer as if in sudden fear. Then she whirled
about to run. Before she could gain the point where the path starts down from the top, the
man caught her and dragged her roughly back, so that the two disappeared from Brian's sight.
Brian was halfway up the bluff when he heard the girl's shrill scream.

There was no sign of weakness, now, in the man that Judy had dragged from the river. He covered
the remaining distance to the top in a breath. From among the bushes, a little way down the
mountainside, came the sound of an angry voice mingled with Judy's pleading cries.

An instant more, and Brian reached the spot where poor Judy was crouching on the ground, begging
the brute, who stood over her with menacing fists, not to hit her again.

The man was a vicious-looking creature, dressed in the rough garb of the mountaineer; dirty
and unkempt, with evil, close-set eyes, and a scraggly beard that could not hide the wicked,
snarling mouth.

He stood for a second looking at Brian, as if too surprised by the latter's sudden appearance
to move; then he went down, felled by as clean a knockout as was ever delivered by an Irish fist.

"Are you hurt, Judy?" demanded Brian, as he lifted the girl to her feet. "Did he strike you?"

"He was sure a-fixin' ter lick me somethin' awful when you-all put in," returned the poor girl,
trembling with fear. "I know, 'cause he's done hit to me heaps er times before. He's my pap."

"Your father!" exclaimed Brian.

Judy nodded;--then screamed: "Look out! He'll git you, sure!"

Judy's rescuer whirled, to see the man on the ground drawing a gun. A vigorous, well-directed
kick, delivered in the nick of time, sent the gun whirling away into the bushes and rendered
the native's right arm useless.

"Get up!" commanded Brian.

The man rose to his feet, and stood nursing his damaged wrist and scowling at Judy's companion.

"Are you this girl's father?"

"I reckon I am," came the sullen reply. "I'm Jap Taylor, an' you-all are sure goin' to find
that you can't come between a man an' his lawful child in these here mountains, mister,--if
you-all be from the city."

"And you will find that you can't strike a crippled girl in my presence, even if she is your
daughter,--in these mountains or anywhere else," retorted Brian. "What are you trying to do
with her, anyway?"

"I aim ter take her back home with me, where she belongs."

"Well, why didn't you go to the house for her like a man, instead of jumping on her out here
in the woods!"

"Hit ain't none of your dad burned business as I can see," came the sullen reply.

"I am making it my business, just the same," returned Brian.

He turned to the girl, who had drawn back a little behind him. "Judy," he said, kindly, "I
think perhaps you better tell me about this."

"Pap, he was a-layin' for me in the bresh 'cause he dassn't come to the house ter git me,"
said the girl, fearfully.

"But, why does he fear to come to the house?" persisted Brian.

"'Cause he done give me ter Auntie Sue."

"Gave you to Auntie Sue?" repeated the puzzled Brian.

Jap Taylor interrupted with, "I didn't sign ary paper, an'--"

"Shut up, you!" snapped Brian. "Go on, Judy."

"Hit was a year last corn-plantin'," explained the girl. "My maw, she died. He used ter whip
her, too. An' Auntie Sue was there helpin' weuns; an' Tom Warden an' some other folks they
was there, too; an' they done fixed hit so that I was ter go an' live with Auntie Sue; an'
pap, he give me ter her. He sure did, Mr. Burns, an' I ain't a-wantin' ter go with him, no more."

The poor girl's shrill monotone broke, and her twisted body shook with her sobs.

"I didn't sign ary paper," repeated Judy's father, with sullen stubbornness. "An' what's more,
I sure ain't a-goin' ter. I 'lows as how she'll just go home an' work for me, like she ort,
'stead of livin' with that there old-maid schoolma'am. I'm her paw, I am, an' I reckon I got
rights."

He started toward the girl, who drew closer to Brian, and begged piteously: "Don't let him
tech me! 'Fore God, Mr. Burns, he'll kill me, sure!"

Brian drew the girl behind him as he faced the father with a brief, "Get out!"

The mountaineer hesitated.

Brian went one step toward him: "Do you hear? Get out! And if you ever show your dirty face
in this vicinity again, I'll not leave a whole bone in your worthless carcass!"

And Jap Taylor saw something in those Irish blue eyes that caused him to start off down the
mountain toward the river below Elbow Rock.

When he had placed a safe distance between himself and the man who appeared so willing and
able to make good his threat, Judy's father turned, and, shaking his uninjured fist at Brian,
delivered a volley of curses, with: "I'll sure git you-all for this! Jap Taylor ain't a-lettin'
no man come between him an' his'n. I'll fix you, an' I'll fix that there schoolma'am, too!
She's nothin' but a damned old--"

But Brian started toward him, and Jap Taylor beat a hasty retreat.

"Never mind, Judy," said Brian, when the native had disappeared in the brush and timber that
covered the steep mountain-side. "I'll not let him touch you. Come, let us sit down and talk
a little until you are yourself again. Auntie Sue must not see you like this. We don't want
to let her know anything about it. You won't tell her, will you?"

"I ain't aimin' ter tell nobody," said Judy, between sobs. "I sure ain't a-wantin' ter make
no trouble,--not for Auntie Sue, nohow. She's been powerful good ter me."

When they were seated on convenient rocks at the brink of the cliff overlooking the river,
Judy gradually ceased crying, and presently said, in her normal, querulous monotone: "Did you-all
mind what pap 'lowed he'd do ter Auntie Sue, Mr. Burns?"

"Yes, Judy; but don't worry, child. He is not going to harm any one while I am around."

"You-all are aimin' ter stay then, be you? I'm sure powerful glad," said Judy, simply.

Brian started. A new factor had suddenly been injected into his problem.

"I was powerful scared you-all was aimin' ter go away," continued Judy. "Hit was that I was
a-huntin' you-all to tell you 'bout, when pap he ketched me."

"What were you going to tell me, Judy?"

"I 'lowed ter tell you-all 'bout Auntie Sue. She'd sure be powerful mad if she know'd I'd said
anythin' ter you, but she's a-needin' somebody like you ter help her, mighty bad. She--she's
done lost a heap of money, lately: hit was some she sent--"

Brian interrupted: "Wait a minute, Judy. You must not tell me anything about Auntie Sue's private
affairs; you must not tell any one. Anything she wants me to know, she will tell me. Do you
understand?" he finished with a reassuring smile.

"Yes, sir; I reckon you-all are 'bout right, an' I won't tell nobody nothin'. But 'tain't a-goin'
ter hurt none ter say as how you-all ort ter stay, I reckon."

"And why do you think I ought to stay, Judy?"

"'Cause of what Auntie Sue's done for you-all,--a-nursin' you when you was plumb crazy an'
plumb dangerous from licker, an' a lyin' like she did ter the Sheriff an' that there deteckertive
man," returned Judy stoutly; "an' 'cause she's so old an' is a-needin' you-all ter help her;
an' 'cause she is a-lovin' you like she does, an' is a-wantin' you-all ter stay so bad hit's
mighty nigh a-makin' her plumb sick."

Brian Kent did not answer. The mountain girl's words had revealed to him the selfishness of
his own consideration of his problem so clearly that he was stunned. Why had he not, in his
thinking, remembered the dear old gentlewoman who had saved him from a shameful death?

Judy went on: "Hit looks ter me like somebody just naturally's got ter take care of Auntie
Sue, Mr. Burns. All her whole life she's a-been takin' care of everybody just like she tuck
me, an' just like she tuck you-all, besides a heap of other ways; an' now she's so old and
mighty nigh plumb wore out, hit sure looks like hit was time somebody was a-fixin' ter do somethin'
for her. That was what I was a-huntin' you-all ter tell you when pap ketched me, Mr. Burns."

"I am glad you told me, Judy;--very glad. You see, I was not thinking of things in just that way."

"I 'lowed maybe you mightn't. Seems like folks mostly don't."

"But it's all right, now!" Brian cried heartily. "You have settled it. I'll stay. We'll take
care of Auntie Sue,--you and I, Judy. Come on, now; let's go to the house, and tell her. But
we won't say anything about your father, Judy;--that would only make her unhappy; and we must
never make Auntie Sue unhappy--never." He was as eager and enthusiastic, now, as a schoolboy.

"'Course," said Judy, solemnly; "'course you just naturally got ter stay an' take care of her
now, after what pap's done said he'd do."

"Yes, Judy; I've just naturally got to stay," returned Brian.

Together they went down the steep cliff trail and to the little log house by the river to announce
Brian's decision to Auntie Sue. They found the dear old lady in her favorite spot on the porch
overlooking the river.

"Why, of course you will stay," she returned, when Brian had told her. "The river brought you
to me, and you know, my dear boy, the river is never wrong. Oh, yes, I know there are cross-currents
and crooked spots and sand-bars and rocks and lots of places where it SEEMS to us to be wrong.
But, just the same, it all goes on, all the time, toward the sea for which it starts when it
first begins at some little spring away over there somewhere in the mountains. Of course you
will stay with me, Brian,--until the river carries you on again."

CHAPTER XI.

RE-CREATION.

From the very day of his decision, to which he had been so unexpectedly helped by Judy, Brian
Kent was another man. The gloomy, despondent, undecided spirit that was the successor of the
wretched creature that Judy had helped to Auntie Sue's that morning was now succeeded by a
cheerful, hopeful, contented man, who went to his daily task with a song, did his work with
a smile and a merry jest, and returned, when the day was done, with peace in his heart and
laughter on his lips.

As the days of the glorious Ozark autumn passed, Brian's healthful, outdoor work on the timbered
mountain-side brought to the man of the cities a physical grace and beauty he had lacked,--the
grace of physical strength and the beauty of clean and rugged health. The bright autumn sun
and the winds that swept over the many miles of tree-clad hills browned his skin; while his
work with the ax developed his muscles and enforced deep breathing of the bracing mountain
air, thus bringing a more generous supply of richer blood, which touched his now firmly rounded
cheeks with color.

The gift of humor and the faculty of quaint and witty conversational twists, with the genius
of storytelling that was his from his Irish mother, made quick friends for him of the mountain
neighbors who welcomed this new pupil of their old school-teacher with whole-hearted pleasure,
and quoted his jests and sayings throughout the country with never-failing delight. And Judy,--it
is not too much to say that Judy became his most ardent admirer and devoted slave.

But the dear old mistress of the little log house by the river alone recognized that these
outward changes in the human wreck that the river had brought to her were but manifestations
of a more potent transformation that was taking place in the man's inner life; and it was this
inner change that filled the teacher's loving heart with joy, and which she watched with keen
and delighted interest.

It was not, after all, a new life that was coming to this man, Auntie Sue told herself; it
was his own old and more real life that was reassuring itself. It was the real Brian Kent that
had been sojourning in a far country that was now coming home to his own. It was the wealth
of his heart and mind and soul which had been deep-buried under an accumulation of circumstances
and environment that was now being brought to the surface.

Might it not be that Auntie Sue's genius for absorbing beauty and making truth her own had,
in her many years of searching for truth and beauty in whatever humanity she encountered, developed
in her a peculiar sensitiveness? And was it not this that had made her feel instinctively the
real nature of the man in whom a less discerning observer would have recognized nothing worthy
of admiration or regard? Without question, it was the true,--the essential,--the underlying,--elements
in the character of the absconding bank clerk that had aroused in this remarkable old gentlewoman
the peculiar sense of kinship--of possession--that had determined her attitude toward the stranger.
The law that like calls to like is not less applicable to things spiritual than to things material.
The birds of a feather that always flock together are not of necessity material birds of material
feathers.

Nor was Brian Kent himself unconscious of his Re-Creation. The man knew what he was, as every
man knows deep within himself the real self that is. And that was the horror of the situation
which had set him adrift on the river that night when, in his last drunken despairing frenzy,
he had left the world with a curse in his heart and had faced the black unknown with reckless
laughter and a profane toast. It is to be doubted if there can be a hell of greater torment
than that experienced by one who, endowed by nature with a capacity for great living, is betrayed
by the very strength of his genius into a situation that is intolerable of his real self, and
is forced, thus, to a continuous self-crucifixion and death.

In his new environment the man felt the awakening of this self which he had mourned as dead.
Thoughts, emotions, dreams, aspirations, which had, as he believed, been killed, he found were
not dead, but only sleeping; and in the quickening of their vitality and strength he knew a
joy as great as had been his despair.

The beauty of nature, that had lost its power of appeal to his sodden soul, now stirred him
to the very depth of his being. The crisp, sun-sweet air of the autumn mornings, when he went
forth with his ax to the day's clean labor, was a draught of potent magic that set every nerve
of him tingling with delight. The woodland hillside, where he worked, was a wonderland of beautiful
creations that inspired a thousand glowing fancies. Sometimes, at his heavy task, he would
pause for a moment's rest, and so would look out and away over the vast expanse of country
that from his feet stretched in all its charm of winding river and wooded slopes, and tree-fringed
ridges to the far, blue sky-line; and the very soul of him would answer to the call as he had
thought he never could answer again. The very clouds that drifted past on their courses to
unseen ports beyond the hills were freighted with meaning for him now. The winds that came
laden with the subtly blended perfume of ten thousand varieties of trees and grasses and shrubs
and flowers whispered words of life which he now could hear. The loveliness of the glowing
morning skies, as he saw them when he rose for the day's work, and the glories of the sunsets,
as he watched them with Auntie Sue from the porch when the day's task was accomplished, filled
him with an exquisite gladness which he had never hoped to know again.

Most of all, did the river speak to him; not, indeed, as it had spoken that dreadful night,
when, from the window of his darkened room, he had listened to its call: the river spoke, now,
in the full day as his eye followed its winding length through the hills in all its varied
beauty of sunshine and shadow;--of gleaming silver and living green and russet-brown. It talked
to him in the evening when the waters gave back the glories of the sky and the deepening twilight
wrapped the world in its dusky veil of mystery. It spoke to him in the soft darkness of the
night, as it swept on its way under the stars, or in the light of the golden moon. And, in
time, some of these things which the river said to him, he, in turn, told to Auntie Sue.

And Auntie Sue, delighted with the man's awakening self, and charmed with his power of thought
and his gift of expression, led him on. With artful suggestion and skilful question and subtle
argument, she stimulated his mind and fancy to lay hold of the truths and beauties that life
and nature offered. But ever the rare old gentlewoman was his teacher, revealing himself to
himself; guiding him to a fuller discovery and knowledge of his own life and its meaning, which,
indeed, is the true aim and end of all right teaching.

So the days of the autumn passed. The hills changed their robes of varied green for costumes
of brown and gold, with touches here and there of flaming scarlet and brilliant yellow. And
then winter was at hand, and that momentous evening came when Auntie Sue said to her pupil,
after an hour of most interesting talk, "Brian, why in the world don't you write a book?"

"'A book'!" exclaimed Brian, in a startled tone.

Judy laughed. "He sure ought ter. Lord knows he talks like one."

"I am in earnest, Brian," said Auntie Sue, her lovely old eyes shining with enthusiasm and
her gentle voice trembling with excitement. "I have been thinking about it for a long time,
now, and, to-night, I just can't keep it to myself any longer. Why don't you give to the world
some of the thoughts you have been wasting on Judy and me?"

"Hit's sure been a-wastin' of 'em on me," agreed Judy. "'Fore God, I don't sense what he's
a-talkin' 'bout, more'n half the time."

Brian laughed. "Judy is prophetic, Auntie Sue. She voices perfectly the sentiment of the world
toward any book I might write."

Auntie Sue detected a note of bitterness underlying the laughing comment, and wondered.

Judy spoke again as she arose to retire to her room for the night: "I reckon as how there's
a right smart of things youuns talk that'd be mighty fine if a body only had the learnin' ter
sense 'em. An' there must be heaps of folks where youuns come from what would know Mr. Burns's
meaning if he was to write hit all out plain. Everybody ain't like me. Hit's sure a God's-blessin'
they ain't, too."

"And there, Brian, dear, is your answer," said Auntie Sue, as Judy left the room. "Any book
has meaning only for those who have the peculiar sympathy and understanding needed to interpret
it. A book that means nothing to one may be rich in meaning for another. Every writer writes
for his own peculiar readers, just as every individual has his own peculiar friends."

"Or enemies," said Brian.

"Or enemies," agreed Auntie Sue.

Brian went to the window, and stood for some time, looking out into the night. Then turning,
with a nervous gesture, he paced uneasily up and down the room; while Auntie Sue watched him
in silence with an expression of loving concern on her dear old face.

At last, she spoke: "Why, Brian, what is the matter? What have I said? I did not mean to upset
you like this. Come, sit down here, and tell me about it. What is it troubles you so?"

With a short laugh, Brian came and stood before her. "I suppose it had to come sooner or later,
Auntie Sue. I have been trying for days to muster up courage enough to tell you about it. You
have touched the one biggest thing in my life."

"Why, what do you mean, Brian?"

"I mean just what we have been talking about,--writing," answered Brian.

"Oh!" she cried, with quick and delighted triumph. "Then I AM right. You have been thinking
about it, too."

"Thinking about it!" he echoed, and in his voice she felt the nervous intensity of his mood.
"I have thought of nothing else. All day long when I am at work, I am writing, writing, writing.
It is the last thing on my mind when I go to sleep. I dream about it all night. And, it is
the first thing I think about in the morning."

Auntie Sue clasped her hands to her heart with an exclamation of joyous interest.

Brian, with a quiet smile at her enthusiasm, went on: "I know exactly what I want to say, and
why I want to say it. There is a world of people, Auntie Sue, whose lives have been broken
and spoiled by one thing or another, and who have more or less cut themselves loose from everything,
and are just drifting, they don't care a hang where, because they think they have failed so
completely that there is nothing more in life for them. People like me,--I don't mean thieves
and criminals necessarily,--who have had that which they know to be the best and biggest and
truest part of themselves tortured and warped and twisted and denied and smashed and beaten
and betrayed and killed; and who, because they feel that their real selves are dead within
them, don't care what happens to that part which is left."

He was walking the floor again now, and speaking with a depth of feeling which he had never
before revealed to his gentle companion.

"It is not so much the love of wrong-doing that makes people turn bad,"--he continued,--"it
is having their real selves misunderstood and doubted and smothered and their realest loves
and dreams and aspirations never recognized, or else distorted and twisted and made to appear
as something they hate. I want to make the people--and there are many thousands of them--who
are suffering in the living hell that tormented me, feel that I know and understand. And then,
Auntie Sue, then I want to tell them about you and your river.

"I would teach them the things you have taught me. I would say to every one that I could persuade
to listen: 'It doesn't in the least matter what your experience is, the old river is still
going on to the sea. No matter if every woman you ever knew has proved untrue, virtuous womanhood
still IS. No matter if every man you ever knew has proved false, true manhood still IS. If
every friend you ever had has betrayed your friendship, loyal friendship still IS. If you have
found nothing in your experience but dishonesty and falsehood and infidelity and hypocrisy,
it is only because you have been unfortunate in your experience; because honesty and fidelity
and sincerity are existing FACTS. They are the very foundation facts of life, and can no more
fail life than the river can fail to reach the sea.

"'Your little individual experience, my little individual experience,--what are they? They
are nothing more than the tiny bubbles, swirls, ripples, and breaks on the surface of the great
volume of water that flows so inevitably onward. The bit of foam, the tiny wave caused by twig
or branch or blade of water-grass, or the great rocks and cliffs that make the roaring whirlpools
and rapids,--do they stay the waters, or turn the river back on its course, or in any way prevent
its onward flow? No more can the twigs of circumstances, or the boughs of environment, or the
grasses of accident that make the tiny waves of our individual experiences,--or even the great
rocks and cliffs of national or racial import,--such as wars, and pestilence, and famine,--finally
check or stay the river of life in its onward flow toward the sea of its final and infinite
meaning.'"

He went again to the window, and stood looking out into the night as though listening to the
voices.

"Why, Auntie Sue," he said, turning back to the old gentlewoman,--and his face was radiant
with the earnestness of this thought,--"Auntie Sue, there are as many currents in our river
out there as there are human lives. A comparatively few great main or dominant currents in
the river flow--a comparatively few great dominant currents in the river flow of life. But
if you look closer, you will see that in each one of those established principal currents there
are countless thousands--millions--of tiny currents all turning and twisting across, and back,
and up, and down in every direction,--weaving themselves together,--pulling themselves apart,--criss-crossing,
clashing,--interlacing,--tangled and confused,--and these are the individual lives. And no
matter what the conflict or confusion; no matter what direction they take for the moment, they
all, ALL, go to make up the river;--they, all together, ARE the river,--and they all together
move onward,--ceaselessly, inevitably, irresistibly."

He paused to stand smiling down at her, as she sat there in her low chair beside the table
with the lamplight on her silvery hair,--there in the little log house by the river.

"That is what you have made your river mean to me, Auntie Sue; and that is what I would give
to the world."

With trembling hands, the gentle old teacher reached for her handkerchief, which lay in the
sewing-basket on the table beside her. Smilingly, she wiped away the tears that filled her
eyes. Lovingly, she looked up at him,--standing so tall and strong before her, with his reddish
hair tumbled and tossed, and his Irish blue eyes lighted with the fire of his inspiration.

"Well," she said, at last, "why don't you do it, Brian?"

As a breath of air puts out the light of a candle, so the light went from Brian Kent's face.
Dropping into his chair, he answered hopelessly, "Because I am afraid."

"Afraid?" echoed Auntie Sue, troubled and amazed. "What in the world are you afraid of, Brian?"

And the bitter, bitter answer came, "I am afraid of another failure."

Auntie Sue's quick mind caught the significance of his words. "ANOTHER failure, Brian? Then
you,--then you have written before?"

"Yes," he returned. And not since his decision to remain with her had she seen him so despondent.
"To write was the dream and the passion of my life. I tried and tried. God, how I worked and
slaved at it! The only result from my efforts was the hell from which you dragged me."

Alter a little silence, Auntie Sue said gently: "I don't think I understand, Brian. You have
never told me about your trouble, you know."

"It is an old, old story," he returned. "I am only one of thousands. My wretched experience
is not at all uncommon."

"I know," she answered. "But don't you think that perhaps you had better tell me? Perhaps,
in the mere telling of it to me, now that it is all over, you may find the real reason for--for
what happened to you."

Wise Auntie Sue!--wise in that rarest of all wisdom,--the sympathetic understanding of human
hearts and souls.

"You know about my earlier life," he began; "how, in my boyhood, after mother's death, I worked
at anything I could do to keep myself alive, and how I managed to gain a little schooling.
I was always dreaming of writing, even then. I took the business course in a night-school,
not because I liked it, but because I thought it would help me to earn a living in a way that
would give me more time for what I really wanted to do. And after I finished school, and had
finally worked up to a good position in that bank, I did have more time for my writing. But,"--he
hesitated--"I--well,--other interests had come into my life,--and--"

Auntie Sue said, softly, "She did not understand, Brian."

"No, she did not understand," he continued, accepting Auntie Sue's interpretation without comment.
"And when my writing brought no money, because no publisher would accept my stuff, and the
conditions under which I wrote became intolerable because of misunderstanding and opposition
and disbelief in my ability and charges of neglect, I--I--stole money from my employers to
gain temporary relief until my writing should amount to something. You see, I could not help
believing that I would succeed, in time. I suppose all dreamers have more or less confidence
in their dreams: they must, you know, or their dreams would never be realized. I always expected
to pay back the money I took with the money I would earn by my pen. But I failed to earn anything,
you see; and then--then the inevitable happened, and the river brought me to you."

"But, my dear boy!" cried Auntie Sue, "all this that you have told me is no reason why you
should fear to write now. Indeed, it is a very good reason why you should not fear."

He looked at her questioningly, and she continued: "You have given every reason in the world
why you failed. Your whole life was out of tune. How could you expect to produce anything worthy
from such a jangling discord? You should have been afraid, indeed, to write THEN. But, NOW,--now,
Brian, you are ready. You are a long, long way down the river from the place of your failures.
The disturbing, distracting things are past,--just as in the quiet reach of the river below
Elbow Rock the turmoil of the rapids is past. You say that you know exactly what you want to
write, and why you want to write it--and you do know--and because you know,--because you have
suffered,--because you have learned,--because you can do this thing for others,--it is yours
to do, and so you must do it. What you really mean when you say you are 'afraid to write' is,
that you are AFRAID NOT TO," she finished with a little laugh of satisfaction.

And Brian Kent, as he watched her glowing face and felt the sincerity and confidence that vibrated
in her voice, was thrilled with a new courage. The fires of his inspiration shone again in
his eyes, as he answered, with deep conviction, "Auntie Sue, I believe you are right. What
a woman you are!"

CHAPTER XII.

AUNTIE SUE TAKES A CHANCE.

So Brian wrote his book that winter.

When the days were fair, he worked with his ax on the mountain-side. But his notebook was ever
at hand, and many a thought that went down on the pages of his manuscript was born while he
wrought with his hands in the wholesome labor which gave strength to his body and clearness
to his brain. In the evenings, he wrote in the little log house by the river, with Auntie Sue
sitting in her chair beside the table,--the lamp-light on her silvery hair, and her sewing-basket
within reach of her hand,--engaged with some bit of needlework, a book, or perhaps with one
of her famous letters to some other pupil, far away. The stormy days gave him many hours with
his pen, and so the book grew.

And always as the man endeavored to shape his thoughts for the printed pages that would carry
his message to the doubting, disconsolate, and fearful world that he knew so well, he heard
in his heart the voices of the river. From the hillside where he worked in the timber he could
see the stream winding through the snowy hills like a dark line carelessly drawn with many
a crook and curve and break on the sheet of white. From the porch he saw the quiet Bend a belt
of shining ice and snow, save for a narrow line in the centre, which marked the course of the
strongest currents; while the waters of the rapids crashed black and dreadful against the Elbow
Rock cliff, which stood gaunt and grim amid the surrounding whiteness; and in the deathlike
hush of the winter twilight, the roar of the turmoil sounded with persistent menace. And all
that the river said to him he put down,--so far as it was given him to do.

And that which Brian Kent wrote was good. He knew it--in his deepest, truest self he knew.
And Auntie Sue knew it; for, of course, he read to her from his manuscript as the book grew
under his hand. Even Judy caught much of his story's meaning, and marvelled at herself because
she, too, could understand.

So the spring came, and the first writing of the book was nearly finished.

And now the question arose: What would they do about the final preparation of the manuscript
for the printers? Brian explained that he should have a typewritten copy of his script, which
he would work over, correct, and revise, and from which perfected copy the final manuscript
would be typewritten. But neither Auntie Sue nor Brian would consider his finishing the book
anywhere but in the little log house by the river; even if there had been no other reason why
Brian should not go to the city, if it could be avoided.

"There is only one thing to do,"--said Auntie Sue, at last, when the matter had been discussed
several times,--"we must send for Betty Jo. She has been studying stenography in a business
college in Cincinnati, and, in her latest letter to me, she wrote that she would finish in
April. I'll just write her to come right here, and bring her typewriter along. She will need
a vacation, and she can have it and do your work at the same time. Besides, I need to see Betty
Jo. She hasn't been to visit me since before Judy came."

Brian thought that Auntie Sue seemed a little nervous and excited as she spoke, but he attributed
it to her combined interest in the book and in the proposed typist. The man could not know
the real cause of his gentle old companion's agitation, nor with what anxiety she had considered
the matter for many days before she announced her plan. The fact was that Auntie Sue was taking
a big chance, and she realized it fully. But she could find no other way to secure the services
of a competent stenographer for Brian, and, as Brian must have a competent stenographer in
order to finish his book properly, she had decided to accept the risk.

"That sounds all right, Auntie Sue," returned Brian. "But who, pray tell, is Betty Jo?"

"Betty Jo is,"--Auntie Sue paused and laughed with a suggestion of embarrassed confusion,--"Betty
Jo is--just Betty Jo, Brian," she finished.

Brian laughed now. "Fine, Auntie Sue! That describes her exactly,--tells me her life's history
and gives me a detailed account of her family,--ancestors and all."

"It describes her with more accuracy than you think," retorted Auntie Sue, smiling in return
at his teasing manner.

"I reckon as how she's got more of er name than that, ain't she?" said Judy, who was a silent,
but intensely interested, listener. "I've allus took notice that folks with funny names'll
stand a right smart of watchin'."

Brian and Auntie Sue laughed together at this, but the old lady said, with a show of spirit:
"Judy! You know nothing about it! You never even saw Betty Jo! You shouldn't say such things,
child."

"Might as well say 'em as ter think 'em, I reckon," Judy returned, her beady-black eyes stealthily
watching Brian.

"What is your Betty Jo's real name, Auntie Sue?" asked Brian, curiously.

Again Auntie Sue seemed to hesitate; then--"Her name is Miss Betty Jo Williams," and as she
spoke the old teacher looked straight at Brian.

"A perfectly good name," Brian returned; "but I never heard of her before."

Judy's black eyes, with their stealthy, oblique look, were now watchfully fixed on Auntie Sue.

"She is the orphan-niece of one of my old pupils," Auntie Sue continued. "I have known her
since she was a baby. When she finished her education in the seminary, and had travelled abroad
for a few months, she decided all at once that she wanted a course in a business college, which
was just what any one knowing her would expect her to do."

"Sounds steady and reliable," commented Brian. "But will she come?"

"Yes, indeed, she will, and be tickled to death over the job," returned Auntie Sue. "I'll write
her at once."

While Auntie Sue was preparing to write her letter, Judy muttered, in a tone which only Brian
heard: "Just the same, 'tain't no name for a common gal ter have; hit sure ain't. There's somethin'
dad burned queer 'bout hit somewhere."

"Nonsense! Judy," said Brian in a low voice; "don't worry Auntie Sue."

"I ain't aimin' ter worry her none," returned the mountain girl; "but I'll bet you-all a pretty
that this here gal'll worry both of youuns 'fore you are through with her;--me, too, I reckon."

For some reason, Auntie Sue's letter to Betty Jo seemed to be rather long. In fact, she spent
the entire evening at it; which led Judy to remark that "hit sure looked like Auntie Sue was
aimin' ter write a book herself."

A neighbor who went to Thompsonville the following day with a load of hogs for shipment, posted
the letter. And, in due time, another neighbor brought the answer. Betty Jo would come.

It was the day following the evening when Brian wrote the last page of his book that another
letter came to Auntie Sue,--a letter which, for the second time, very nearly wrecked Brian
Kent's world.

CHAPTER XIII.

JUDY TO THE RESCUE.

Brian was working in the garden. It was early in the afternoon, and the man, as he worked in
the freshly ploughed ground, was rejoicing at the completion of his book.

Straightening up from his labor, he drew a deep breath of the fragrant air. About him on every
side, and far away into the blue distance, the world was dressed in the gala dress of the season.
The river, which at the breaking of the winter had been a yellow flood that washed the top
of the bank in front of the house and covered the bottom-lands on the opposite side, was again
its normal self, and its voice to him, now, was a singing voice of triumphal gladness.

For Brian, too, the world was new, and fresh, and beautiful. The world of his winter was gone.
He had found himself in his work, and in the glorious consciousness of the fact he felt like
shouting with sheer joy of living.

"And Auntie Sue, dear Auntie Sue," he thought, looking with love in his eyes toward the house,
how wonderful she had been in her helpful understanding and never-failing faith in him. After
all, it was Auntie Sue's triumph more than it was his.

His happy musing was interrupted by a neighbor who, on his way home from Thompsonville, stopped
at the garden fence with the letter for Auntie Sue.

Brian took the letter with a jest which brought a roar of laughter from the mountaineer, and,
when the latter had gone on his way up the hill, started toward the house to find Auntie Sue.

Glancing at the envelope in his hand, Brian noticed the postmark "Buenos Aires." He stopped
suddenly, staring dumbly at the words in the circular mark and at the name written on the envelope.
Over and over, he read "Buenos Aires,--Miss Susan Wakefield; Buenos Aires,--Miss Susan Wakefield."
Something--His brain seemed to be numb. His hands trembled. He looked about at the familiar
surroundings, and everything seemed suddenly strange and unreal to him. He looked again at
the letter in his hand, turning it curiously. A strange feeling of oppression and ominous foreboding
possessed him as though the bright spring sky were all at once overcast with heavy and menacing
storm-clouds. What was it? "Buenos Aires,--Susan Wakefield?" Where had he seen that combination
before? What was it that made the name of the Argentine city in connection with Auntie Sue's
name seem so familiar? Slowly, he went on to the house, and, finding Auntie Sue, gave her the
letter.

"Oh!" cried the old lady, as she saw the postmark on the envelope. "It must be from brother
John. It is not John's writing, though," she added, as she opened the envelope.

And at her words the feeling of impending disaster so oppressed Brian Kent that only by an
effort could he control himself. He was possessed of the strange sensation of having at some
time in the past lived the identical experience through which he was at that moment passing.
"Susan Wakefield;--a brother John in Buenos Aires, Argentine;--the letter!" It was all so familiar
that the allusion was startling in its force. But that ominous cloud,--that sense of some great
trouble near that filled him with such unaccountable dread--what could it mean?

An exclamation from Auntie Sue drew his attention. She looked at him with tear-filled eyes,
and her sweet voice broke as she said: "Brian! Brian! John is dead! This--this letter is from
the doctor who attended him."

Tenderly, as he would have helped his own mother, Brian assisted Auntie Sue to her room. For
a little while he sat with her, trying to comfort her with such poor words as he could find.

Briefly, she told him of the brother who had lived in Argentine for many years. He had married
a South-American woman whom Auntie Sue had never seen, and while not wealthy had been moderately
prosperous. But he had never forgotten his sister who was so alone in the world. "Several times,
when he could, he sent me money for my savings-bank account," she finished simply, her sweet
old voice low and tender with the memories of the years that were gone. "John and I were always
very fond of each other. He was a good man, Brian."

Brian Kent sat like a man stricken dumb. Auntie Sue's words, "he sent me money for my savings-bank
account," had made the connection between the names "Buenos Aires, Argentine; John Wakefield;
Susan Wakefield," and the thing for which his mind had been groping with such a sense of impending
disaster.

In her grief over the death of her brother, and in her memories of their home years so long
past, dear old Auntie Sue had forgotten the peculiar meaning her words might have for the former
clerk of the Empire Consolidated Savings Bank who sat beside her, and to whom she turned in
her sorrow as a mother to a dearly beloved son.

"But it is all right, Brian, dear," she said with brave cheerfulness. "When one has watched
the sunsets for seventy years, one ceases to fear the coming of the night, for always there
is the morning. Just let me rest here alone for a little while, and I will be myself again."

She looked up at him with a smile, and Brian Kent, kneeling beside the bed, bowed his head
and caught the dear old hands to his lips. Without trusting himself to speak again, the man
left the room,--closing the door.

He moved about the apartment as one in a dream. With a vividness that was torture, he lived
again that hour in the bank when, opening the afternoon mail, he had found the letter from
Susan Wakefield with the Argentine notes, which her letter said she had received from her brother
John in Buenos Aires, and which she was sending to the bank for deposit to her little account.
It had been a very unbusinesslike letter and a very unbusinesslike way to transmit money. It
was, indeed, this nature of the transaction that had tempted the hard-pressed clerk.

Mechanically, Brian stopped at his writing-table to finger the manuscript which he had finished
the evening before. Was it only the evening before? Taking up the volume of closely written
sheets which were bound together by a shoestring that Auntie Sue had laughingly found for him,
when he had so joyously announced the completion of the last page of his book, he turned the
leaves idly,--reading here and there a sentence with curious interest. The terrific mental
strain of his situation completely divorced him, as it were, from the life which he had lived
during those happy months just past, and which was so fully represented by his work.

Again the river, swinging around a sudden turn in its course, had come upon a passage where
its peaceful flow was broken by the wild turmoil of the troubled waters.

"And Auntie Sue,"--something within the man's self was saying,--"dear Auntie Sue, who had saved
him, not only from death, but from the hell of the life that he had formerly lived, as well;
and whose loving companionship and sympathetic understanding had so inspired and strengthened
him in the work which had been the passionate desire of his heart;--the gentle old teacher
whose life had been so completely given to others, and who, in the helplessness of her last
years, was so alone,--Auntie Sue was depending upon that money which her brother had sent her
as the only support of the closing days of her life. Auntie Sue believed that her money was
safe in the bank. That belief was to her a daily comfort. Auntie Sue did not know that she
was almost penniless;--that the man whom she had saved with such a wondrous salvation had robbed
her, and left her so shamefully without means for the necessities of life. Auntie Sue did not
know. But she would know,"--that inner voice went on. "The time would come when she would learn
the truth. It was certain to come. It might come any day. Then--then--"

As one moving without conscious purpose, Brian Kent went from the house,--the manuscript in
his hand.

Judy was sitting idly on the porch steps. At sight of the mountain girl the man knew all at
once that there was one thing he must do. He must make sure that there was no mistake. He was
already sure, of course; but still, as a condemned man at the scaffold hopes against hope for
a stay of sentence, so he caught at the shadowy suggestion of a possibility.

"Come with me, Judy," he said, forcing himself to speak coolly; "I want to talk with you."

Judy arose, and, looking at him in her stealthy, oblique way, said, in her drawling monotone:
"What's happened ter Auntie Sue? Was there somethin' in that there letter Bud Jackson give
you-all for her what's upset her?"

"Auntie Sue's brother is dead, Judy," Brian answered. "She wishes to be alone, and we must
not disturb her. She will be all right in a little while. Come, let us walk down toward the bluff."

When they had reached a spot on the river-bank a short distance above the Elbow Rock cliff,
Brian said to his companion: "Judy, I want you to tell me something. Did Auntie Sue ever send
money in a letter to the Empire Consolidated Savings Bank, in Chicago?"

"The black, beady eyes shifted evasively, and the mountain girl turned her sallow, old-young
face away from Brian's direct gaze.

"Look at me, Judy."

She sent a stealthy, oblique glance in his direction.

"You must tell me."

"I done started ter tell you-all onct,--that time pap ketched me,--an' you-all 'lowed as how
I oughten ter tell nothin' 'bout Auntie Sue to nobody."

"But it is different now, Judy," returned Brian. "Something has happened that makes it necessary
for me to know."

"Meanin' that there letter 'bout her brother bein' dead?" asked Judy, shrewdly.

"Yes."

"What you-all got ter know for?"

"Because--" Brian could not finish.

Judy's beady eyes were watching him intently, now. "Hit looks like you-all ain't a-needin'
me ter tell you-all anythin'," she observed dryly.

"Then Auntie Sue did send money?"

"She sure did. I seed her fix hit in the letter, myself," came the answer.

"What kind of money?"

"I dunno,--some funny kind hit was,--what her brother done sent her from some funny place,
I dunno just where."

"When did she send it?"

"'Bout a month 'fore you come."

"And--and did any letter ever come from the bank to tell her that the money was received by
them all right?"

The mountain girl did not answer, but again turned her face away.

"Tell me," Brian insisted. "I--I--must know, Judy," and his voice was harsh and broken with
emotion.

The answer came reluctantly: "I reckon you-all knows where that there money went ter."

The girl's answer sent a new thought like a hot iron into Brian Kent's tortured brain. He caught
Judy's arm in quick and fearful excitement. "Judy!" he gasped, imploringly, "Judy, do you--?
does Auntie Sue know--? does she know that I--?"

"How could she help knowin'? She ain't no fool. An' I done heard that there Sheriff an' the
deteckertive man tellin' her 'bout you an' the bank. An' the Sheriff, he done give her a paper
what he said told all 'bout what you-all done, an' she must er burned the paper, or done somethin'
with hit, 'cause I couldn't never find hit after that night. An' what would she do that for?
And what for did she make me promise not ter ever say nothin' ter you-all 'bout that there
money letter? An' why ain't she said nothin' to you 'bout the letter from the bank not comin',
if she didn't know hit was you 'stead of them what done got the money?"

The girl paused for a moment, and then went on in a tone of reverent wonder: "An' to think
that all the time she could a-turned you-all over to that there Sheriff an' got the money-reward
to pay her back what you-all done tuck."

Brian Kent was as one who had received a mortal hurt. His features were distorted with suffering.
With eyes that could not see, he looked down at the manuscript to which he still unconsciously
clung; and, again, he fingered the pages of his work as though some blind instinct were sending
his tormented soul to seek relief in the message which, during the happy months just past,
he had written for others.

And the deformed mountain girl, who stood before him with twisted body and old-young face,
grew fearful as she watched the suffering of this man whom she had come to look upon as a superior
being from some world which she, in her ignorance, could never know.

"Mr. Burns," she said at last, putting out her hand and plucking at his sleeve, "Mr. Burns,
you-all ain't got no call ter be like this. You-all ain't plumb bad. I knows you ain't, 'count
of the way you-all have been ter me an' 'cause you kept pap from hurtin' me, an' 'cause you
are takin' care of Auntie Sue like you're doin'. Hit ain't no matter 'bout the money, now,
'cause you-all kin take care of her allus."

Brian looked up from the manuscript in his hand, and stared dumbly at the girl, as if he failed
to hear her clearly.

"An' just think 'bout your book," Judy continued pleadingly. "Think 'bout all them fine things
you-all have done wrote down for everybody ter read,--'bout the river allus a-goin' on just
the same, no matter what happens, an' 'bout Auntie Sue an'--"

She stopped, and drew away from him, frightened at the look that came into the man's face.

"Don't, Mr. Burns! Don't!" she half-screamed. "'Fore God, you-all oughten ter look like that!"

The man threw up his head, and laughed,--laughed as the wild, reckless and lost Brian Kent
had laughed that black night when, in the drifting boat, he had cursed the life he was leaving
and had drunk his profane toast to the darkness into which he was being carried.

Raising the manuscript, which represented all that the past months of his re-created life had
meant to him, and grasping it in both hands, he shook it contemptuously, as he said, with indescribable
bitterness and the reckless surrendering of every hope: "'All them fine things that I have
wrote down for everybody ter read.'" He mimicked her voice with a sneer, and laughed again.
Then: "It's all a lie, Judy, dear;--a damned lie. Auntie Sue is a saint, and believes it. She
made me believe it for a little while,--her beautiful, impossible dream-philosophy of the river.
The river,--hell!--the river is as treacherous and cruel and false and tricky and crooked as
life itself! And I am as warped and twisted in mind and soul as you are in body, Judy, dear.
Neither of us can help it. We were made that way by the river. To hell with the whole impossible
mess of things!" With a gesture of violent rage, he turned toward the river, and, taking a
step forward, lifted the manuscript high above his head.

Judy screamed, "Mr. Burns, don't!"

He paused an instant, and, turning his head, looked at her with another laugh.

"'Fore God, you dassn't do that!" she implored.

And then, as the man turned his face from her, and his arms went back above his head for the
swing that would send the manuscript far out into the tumbling waters of the rapids, she leaped
toward him, and, catching his arm, hampered his movement so that the book fell a few feet from
the shore, where the water, checked a little in its onward rush to the cliff by the irregular
bank, boiled and eddied among the rocky ledges and huge boulders that retarded its force. Another
leap carried the mountain girl to the edge of the bank, where she crouched like a runner ready
for the report of the starter's pistol, her black, beady eyes searching the stream for the
volume of manuscript, which had disappeared from sight, drawn down by the troubled swirling
currents.

The man, watching her, laughed in derision; but, while his mocking laughter was still on his
lips, the boiling currents brought the book, again, to the surface, and Brian saw the girl
leave the bank as if thrown by a powerful spring. Straight and true she dived for the book,
and even as she disappeared beneath the surface her hands clutched the manuscript.

For a second, Brian Kent held his place as if paralyzed with horror. Then, as Judy's head appeared
farther down the stream, he ran with all his strength along the bank to gain a point a little
ahead of the swimming girl before he should leap to her rescue.

But Judy, trained from her birth on that mountain river, knew better than Brian what to do.
A short distance below the point where she had plunged into the stream, a huge boulder, some
two or three feet from the shore, caused a split in the current, one fork of which set in toward
the bank. Swimming desperately, the girl gained the advantage of this current, and, just as
Brian reached the spot, she was swept against the bank, where, with her free hand, she caught
and held fast to a projecting root. Had she been carried past that point, nothing could have
saved her from being swept on into the wild turmoil of the waters at Elbow Rock.

It was the work of a moment for Brian to throw himself flat on the ground at the edge of the
bank and, reaching down, to grasp the girl's wrist. Another moment, and she was safe beside
him, his manuscript still tightly held under one arm.

Not realizing, in his excitement, what he was doing, Brian shook the girl, saying angrily:
"What in the world do you mean, taking such a crazy-fool chance as that!"

She broke away from him with: "Well, what'd you-all go an' do such a dad burned fool thing
for? Hit's you-all what's crazy yourself--plumb crazy!"

Brian held out his hand: "Give me that manuscript!"

Judy clutched the book tighter, and drew back defiantly. "I won't. You-all done throwed hit
away onct. 'Tain't your'n no more, nohow."

"Well, what do you purpose to do with it?" said the puzzled man, in a gentler tone.

"I aims ter give hit ter Auntie Sue," came the startling reply. "I reckon she'll know what
ter do. Hit allus was more her'n than your'n, anyhow. You done said so yourself. I heard you
only last night when you-all was so dad burned tickled at gittin' hit done. You-all ain't got
no right ter sling hit inter the river, an', anyway, I ain't a-goin' ter let you."

"Which sounds very sensible to me," came a clear voice from a few feet distant.

Judy and Brian turned quickly, to face a young woman who stood regarding them thoughtfully,
with a suggestion of a smile on her very attractive face.

CHAPTER XIV.

BETTY JO CONSIDERS.

The most careless eye would have seen instantly that the newcomer was not a native of that
backwoods district. She was not a large woman, but there was, nevertheless, a full, rounded
strength, which saved her trim and rather slender body from appearing small. Neither would
a discriminating observer describe her by that too-common term "pretty." She was more than
that. In her large, gray eyes, there was a look of frank, straightforward interest that suggested
an almost boyish good-fellowship, while at the same time there was about her a general air
of good breeding; with a calm, self-possessed and businesslike alertness which, combined with
a wholesome dignity, commanded a feeling of respect and confidence. Her voice was clear and
musical, with an undertone of sympathetic humor. One felt when she spoke that while she lacked
nothing of intelligent understanding and sympathetic interest, she was quite ready to laugh
at you just the same.

When the two stood speechless, she said, looking straight at Brian: "It seems to me, sir, that
the young lady has all the best of the argument. But I really think she should have some dry
clothes as well."

She turned to the dripping and dishevelled Judy: "You poor child. Aren't you cold! It is rather
early in the season for a dip in the river, I should think. Let me take whatever you have there,
and you make for the house as fast as you can go,--the run will warm you."

As she spoke, she went to the mountain girl, holding out her hand to take the manuscript, and
smiling encouragingly.

But Judy backed away, her stealthy, oblique gaze fixed with watchful surprise on the fair stranger.

"This here ain't none of your put-in," and her shrill drawling monotone contrasted strangely
with the other's pleasing voice. "Where'd you-all happen from, anyhow? How'd you-all git here?"

"I came over the bluff by the path," answered the other. "You see, I left the train from the
south at White's Crossing because I knew I could drive up from there by the river road quicker
than I could go by rail away around through the hills to Thompsonville, and then make the drive
down the river from there. When I reached Elbow Rock, I was in such a hurry, I took the short
cut, while the man with my trunk and things went by the road over Schoolhouse Hill, you know.
I arrived here just as this gentleman was pulling you from the water."

Before Brian could speak, Judy returned with excitement: "I know who you-all be now. I ought
ter knowed the minute I set eyes on you. You-all are the gal with that there no-'count name,
an' you've come ter work for him, there,"--she pointed to Brian,--"a-helpin' him ter write
his book, what ain't his'n no more, nohow, 'cause he done throwed hit away,--plumb inter the
river."

"I am Miss Williams," returned the other. "My 'no-'count name,' I suppose, is Betty Jo." She
laughed kindly. "Perhaps it won't seem so 'no'count' when we are better acquainted, Judy. Won't
you run along to the house, and change to some dry clothes? You will catch your death of cold
if you stand here like this."

"How'd you-all know I was Judy?"

"Why, Auntie Sue wrote me about you, of course."

"An' you knowed me 'cause I'm so all crooked an' ugly, I reckon," came the uncompromising return.

Betty Jo turned to Brian: "You are Mr. Burns, are you not, for whom I am to work?"

Brian made no reply,--he really could not speak. "And this,"--Betty Jo included Judy, the manuscript,
and the river in a graceful gesture,--"this, I suppose, is the result of what is called 'the
artistic temperament'?"

Still the man could find no words. The young woman's presence and her reference to his work
brought to him, with overwhelming vividness, the memory of all to which he had so short a time
before looked forward, and which was now so hopelessly lost to him. He felt, too, a sense of
rebellion that she should have come at such a moment,--that she could stand there with such
calm self-possession and with such an air of competency. Her confidence and poise in such contrast
to the chaotic turmoil of his own thoughts, and his utter helplessness in the situation which
had so suddenly burst upon him, filled him with unreasoning resentment.

Betty Jo must have read in Brian Kent's face something of the suffering that held him there
dumb and motionless before her, and so sensed a deeper tragedy than appeared on the surface
of the incident; and her own face and voice revealed her understanding as she said, with quiet,
but decisive, force: "Mr. Burns, Judy must go to the house. Won't you persuade her?"

Brian started as one aroused from deep abstraction, and went to Judy; while Betty Jo drew a
little way apart, and stood looking out over the river.

"Give me the manuscript, Judy," said Brian gently, "and go on to the house."

"You-all ain't a-goin' ter sling hit inter the river again?" The words were half-question and
half-assertion.

"No," said Brian. "I promise not to throw it into the river again."

As Judy gave him the manuscript, she turned her beady eyes in a stealthy, oblique look toward
Betty Jo, and whispered: "You-all best tell her 'bout hit. I sure hate her poison-bad; but
hit's easy ter see she'd sure know what ter do."

"Be careful that Auntie Sue doesn't see you like this, Judy," was Brian's only answer; and
Judy started off for her much-needed change to dry clothing.

When the mountain girl was gone, Brian stood looking at the water-stained volume of manuscript
in his hand. He had no feeling, now, of more than a curious idle interest in this work to which,
during the months just past, he had given so without reserve the best of himself. It was, he
thought, strange how he could regard with such indifference a thing for which a few hours before
he would have given his life. Dumbly, he was conscious of the truth of Judy's words,--that
the book was no longer his. Judy was right--this book which he had called his had always been,
in reality, Auntie Sue's. So the matter of his work, at least so far as he had to do with it,
was settled--definitely and finally settled.

But what of himself? What was to become of him? Of one thing only he was certain about himself;--he
never could face Auntie Sue again. Knowing, now, what he had done, and knowing that she knew;--that
all the time she was nursing him back to health, all the time she had been giving him the inspiration
and strength and peace of her gentle, loving companionship, in the safe and quiet harbor of
her little house by the river, she had known that it was he who had--A clear, matter-of-fact,
but gentle, voice interrupted his bitter thoughts: "Is it so very badly damaged, Mr. Burns?"

He had forgotten Betty Jo, who now stood close beside him.

"Let me see?" She held out her hand as he turned slowly to face her.

Without a word, he gave her the manuscript.

Very businesslike and practical, but with an underlying feeling of tenderness that was her
most compelling charm, Betty Jo examined the water-stained volume.

"Why, no," she announced cheerfully; "it isn't really hurt much. You see, the sheets being
tied together so tightly, the water didn't get all the way through. The covers and the first
and last pages are pretty wet, and the edges of the rest are rather damp. It'll be smudged
somewhat, but I don't believe there is a single word that can't be made out. It is lucky it
didn't prolong its bath, though, isn't it? All we need to do, now, is to put it in the sun
to dry for a few minutes."

Selecting a sunny spot near by, she arranged the volume against a stone and deftly separated
the pages so that the air could circulate more freely between them; and one would have said,
from her manner of ready assurance, that she had learned from long experience exactly how to
dry a manuscript that had been thrown in the river and rescued just in the nick of time. That
was Betty Jo's way. She always did everything without hesitation,--just as though she had spent
the twenty-three years of her life doing exactly that particular thing.

Kneeling over the manuscript, and gently moving the wet sheets, she said, without looking up:
"Do you always bath your manuscripts like this before you turn them over to your stenographer
to type, Mr. Burns?"

In spite of his troubled state of mind, Brian smiled.

The clear, matter-of-fact voice went on, while the competent hands moved the drying pages.
"You see, I never worked for an author before. I suspect I have a lot to learn."

She looked up at him with a Betty Jo smile that went straight to his heart, as Betty Jo's smiles
had a curious way of doing.

"I hope you will be very patient with me, Mr. Burns. You will, won't you? There is no real
danger of your throwing ME in the river when the 'artistic temperament' possesses you, is there?"

It was no use. When Betty Jo set out to make a man talk, that man talked. Brian yielded not
ungracefully: "I owe you an apology, Miss Williams," he said.

"Indeed, no," Betty Jo returned, giving her attention to the manuscript again. "It is easy
to see that you are terribly upset about something; and everybody is so accustomed to being
upset in one way or another that apologies for upsetments are quite an unnecessary bother,
aren't they?"

That was another interestingly curious thing about Betty Jo,--the way she could finish off
a characteristic, matter-of-fact statement with a question which had the effect of making one
agree instantly whether one agreed or not.

Brian felt himself quite unexpectedly feeling that "upsetments" were quite common, ordinary,
and to be expected events in one's life. "But I am really in very serious trouble, Miss Williams,"
he said in a way that sounded oddly to Brian himself, as though he were trying to convince
himself that his trouble really was serious.

Betty Jo rose to her feet, and looked straight at him, and there was no mistaking the genuineness
of the interest expressed in those big gray eyes.

"Oh, are you? Is it really so serious? I am so sorry. But don't you think you better tell me
about it, Mr. Burns? If I am to work for you, I may just as well begin right here, don't you
think?"

There it was again,--that trick-question. Brian felt himself agreeing in spite of himself,
though how he was to explain his painful situation to this young woman whom, until a few minutes
before, he had never even seen, he did not know. He answered cautiously, speaking half to himself:
"That is what Judy said."

Betty Jo did not understand, and made no pretense,--she never made a pretense of anything.
"What did Judy say?" she asked.

"That I had better tell you about it," he answered.

And the matter-of-fact Betty Jo returned: "Judy seems to be a very particular and common-sensing
sort of Judy, doesn't she?"

And Brian realized all at once that Judy was exactly what Betty Jo said.

"But,--I--I--don't see how I CAN tell you, Miss Williams."

"Why?" laughed Betty Jo. "It is perfectly simple, Mr. Burns, here, now, I'll show you: You
are to sit down there on that nice comfortable rock,--that is your big office-chair, you know,--and
I'll sit right here on this rock,--which is my little stenography-chair,--and you will just
explain the serious business proposition to me with careful attention to details. I must tell
you that 'detailing' is one of my strong points, so don't spare me. I really should have my
notebook, shouldn't I?"

Again, in spite of himself, Brian smiled; also, before he was aware, they were both seated
as Betty Jo had directed.

"But this is not a business matter, Miss Williams," he managed to protest half-heartedly.

Betty Jo was looking at her watch in a most matter-of-fact manner, and she answered in a most
matter-of-fact voice: "Everything is more or less a business matter, isn't it, Mr. Burns?"

And Brian, if he had answered, would have agreed.

Betty Jo slipped her watch back into her pocket, and continued: "You will have plenty of time
before that man with my trunk and things can get away 'round over Schoolhouse Hill and down
again to Auntie Sue's. He will be obliged to stop at neighbor Tom's, and tell them all about
me, of course. We mustn't let him beat us to the house, though; so, perhaps, you better begin,
don't you think?"

That "don't-you-think?" so characteristic of Betty Jo, did its work, as usual; and so, almost
before Brian Kent realized what he was doing, it had been decided for him that to follow Judy's
advice was the best possible thing he could do, and he was relating his whole wretched experience
to this young woman, about whom he knew nothing except that she was a niece of an old pupil
of Auntie Sue's, and that she had just finished a course in a business college in Cincinnati.

At several points in his story Betty Jo asked straightforward questions, or made short, matter-of-fact
comments; but, always with her businesslike air of competent interest. Indeed, she managed
to treat the situation as being wholly impersonal; while at the same time the man was never
for a moment made to feel that she was lacking in sincere and genuine sympathy. Only when he
told her that his name was Brian Kent, and mentioned the Empire Consolidated Savings Bank,
did she for the moment betray excited surprise. When she saw that he had noticed, she said
quickly: "I read of the affair in the papers, of course."

Auntie Sue had indeed taken a big chance when she decided for Betty Jo to come to help Brian
with his book. But Auntie Sue had taken no chance on Betty Jo herself. Perhaps it was, in fact,
the dear old teacher's certainty about Betty Jo herself that had led her to accept the risk
of sending for the niece of her friend and pupil under such a peculiar combination of circumstances.

When Brian had finished his story with the account of his discovery of the distressing fact
that he had robbed Auntie Sue and that she knew he had robbed her, Betty Jo said: "It is really
a sad story, isn't it, Mr. Burns? But, oh, isn't Auntie Sue wonderful! Was there ever such
another woman in the world! Don't you love her? And couldn't you do anything--anything that
would make her happy? After all, when you think of Auntie Sue, and how wonderful she has been,
this whole thing isn't so bad, is it?"

"Why, I--I--don't think I see what you mean," Brian replied, puzzled by the unexpected turn
she had given to the situation, yet convinced by that little question with which she finished
that she was somehow right.

"Well, I mean wouldn't YOU love to do for some one what Auntie Sue has done for you? I should
if I were only big enough and good enough. It seems to me it would make one the happiest and
contentedest and peacefulest person in the world, wouldn't it?"

Brian did not answer. While he felt himself agreeing with Betty Jo's view, he was wondering
at himself that he could discuss the matter so calmly. It was not that he no longer felt deeply
the shame of this terrible thing that he had done; it was not that he had ceased to suffer
the torment that had caused his emotional madness, which had found expression in his attempt
to destroy his manuscript; it was only that this young woman somehow made it possible for him
to retain his self-control, and instead of venting his emotions in violent and wholly useless
expressions of regret, and self-condemnation, and in irrational, temperamental action, to consider
coolly and sanely what he must do. He was strangely possessed, too, of an instinctive certainty
that Betty Jo knew exactly how he felt and exactly what she was doing.

While he was thinking these things, or, rather, feeling them, Betty Jo went to see how the
manuscript was drying. She returned to her seat on the rock presently, saying: "It is doing
very nicely,--almost dry. I think it will be done pretty soon. In the meantime, what are we
going to do about everything? You have thought of something for you to do, of course!"

"I fear I have felt rather more than I have thought," returned Brian.

She nodded. "Yes, I know; but feeling alone never arrives anywhere. An excess of thoughtless
feeling is sheer emotional extravagance. I sound like a book, don't I?" she laughed. "It is
so just the same, Mr. Burns. And now that you have--ah--been properly--not to say gloriously--extravagant
at poor Judy's expense, we had better do a little thinking, don't you think?"

The man's cheeks reddened at her words; but the straightforward, downright sincerity of those
gray eyes, that looked so frankly into his, held him steady; while the interrogation at the
end of her remark carried its usual conviction.

"There is only one possible thing left for me to do, Miss Williams," he said earnestly.

"And what is that?" A smile that sent a glow of courage to Brian Kent's troubled heart accompanied
the flat question.

"I can't face Auntie Sue again, knowing what I know now." He spoke with passion.

"Of course you would expect to feel that way, wouldn't you?" came the matter-of-fact answer.

"The only thing I can do," he continued, "is to give myself up, and go to the penitentiary;
arranging, somehow, to do it in such a way that the reward will go to Auntie Sue. God knows
she deserves it! Sheriff Knox would help me fix that part, I am sure."

For a moment there was a suspicious moisture in Betty Jo's gray eyes. Then she said, "And you
would really go to prison for Auntie Sue?"

"It is the least I can do for her now," he returned.

And Betty Jo must have felt the sincerity of his purpose, for she said, softly: "I am sure
that it would make Auntie Sue very happy to know that you would do that; and"--she added--"I
know that you could not possibly make her more unhappy and miserable than by doing it, could you?"

Again she had given an unexpected turn to the subject with the usual convincing question-mark.

"But what can I do?" he demanded, letting himself go a little.

Betty Jo steadied him with: "Well, suppose you listen while I consider? Did I tell you that
'considering' was another of my strong points, Mr. Burns? Well, it is. You may consider me
while I consider, if you please.

"The first thing is, that you must make Auntie Sue happy,--as happy as you possibly can do
at any cost. The second thing is, that you must pay her back that money, every penny of it.
Now, it wouldn't make her happy for you to go to prison, and the reward wouldn't pay back all
the money; and if you were in prison, you never could pay the rest; besides, if you were wasting
your time in prison, she would just die of miserableness, and she wouldn't touch a penny of
that reward-money--not if she was to die for want of it. So that settles that, doesn't it?"

And Brian was forced to admit that, as Betty Jo put it, it did.

"Very well, let us consider some more: Dear Auntie Sue has been wonderfully, gloriously happy
in doing what she has for you this past winter,--meaning your book and all. I can see that
she must have been. No one could help being happy doing such a thing as that. So you just simply
can't spoil it all, now, by letting her know that you know what you know."

Brian started to speak, but she checked him with: "Please, Mr. Burns, I must not be interrupted
when I am considering. Next to the prison,--which we have agreed won't do at all,--you could
do nothing that would make Auntie Sue more unhappy than to spoil the happiness she has in your
not knowing what you have done to her. That is very clear, isn't it? And think of her miserableness
if, after all these weeks of happy anticipation, your book should never be published. No, no,
no; you can't rob Auntie Sue of her happiness in you just because you stole her money, can you?"

And Brian knew in his heart that she was right.

"So, you see," Betty Jo continued, "the only possible way to do is to go right along just as
if nothing had happened. And there is this final consideration,--which must be a dark secret
between you and me,--when the book is finished, you must see to it that every penny that comes
from it goes to Auntie Sue until she is paid back all that she lost through you. Now, isn't
that pretty fine 'considering,' Mr. Burns?"

And Brian was convinced that it was. "But," he suggested, "the book may not earn anything.
Nothing that I ever wrote before did."

"You never wrote one before just like this, did you?" came the very matter-of-fact answer.
"And, besides, if your book never earns a cent, it will do Auntie Sue a world more good than
your going to prison for her. That would be rather silly, now that you think of it, wouldn't
it? And now that we have our conspiracy all nicely conspired, we must hurry to the house before
that man arrives with my things."

She went for the manuscript as she spoke. "See," she cried, "it is quite dry, and not a bit
the worse for its temperamental experience!" She laughed gleefully.

"But, Miss Williams," exclaimed Brian, "I--I--can't understand you! You don't seem to mind.
What I have told you about myself doesn't seem to--to--make any difference to you--I mean in
your attitude toward me."

"Oh, yes, it does," she returned. "It makes me very interested in you, Mr. Burns."

"But, how can you have any confidence--How can you help me with my book now that you know what
I am?" he persisted, for he was sincerely puzzled by her apparent indifference to the revelation
he had made of his character.

"Auntie Sue,"--she answered,--"just Auntie Sue. Come,--we must go."

"How in the world can I ever face her!" groaned Brian.

"You won't get the chance at her, for awhile, with me around;--she will be so busy with me
that she won't notice anything wrong with you. So you will get accustomed to the conspiracy
feeling before you are even suspected of conspiring. You know, when one has once arrived at
the state of not feeling like a liar, one can lie with astonishing success. Haven't you found
it so?"

They laughed together over this as they went toward the house.

As they reached the porch, Betty Jo whispered a last word of instruction: "You better find
Judy, and fix her the first thing;--fix her good and hard. Here is Auntie Sue now. Don't worry
about her noticing anything strange about you. I'll attend to her."

And the next minute, Betty Jo had the dear old lady in her arms.

CHAPTER XV.

A MATTER OF BUSINESS.

The weeks that followed the coming of Betty Jo to the little log house by the river passed
quickly for Brian Kent. Perhaps it was the peculiar circumstances of their first meeting that
made the man feel so strongly that he had known her for many years, instead of for only those
few short weeks. That could easily have been the reason, because the young woman had stepped
so suddenly into his life at a very critical time;--when his mental faculties were so confused
by the turmoil and suffering of his emotional self that the past was to him, at the moment,
far more real than the present.

And Betty Jo had not merely come into his life casually, as a disinterested spectator; but,
by the peculiar appeal of herself, she had led Brian to take her so into his confidence that
she had become immediately a very real part of the experience through which he was then passing,
and thus was identified with his past experience out of which the crisis of the moment had come.

Again Betty Jo, in the naturalness of her manner toward him, and by her matter-of-fact, impersonal
consideration of his perplexing situation, had brought to his unsettled and chaotic mind a
sense of stability and order; and by subtly insinuating her own practical decisions as to the
course he should follow, had made herself a very literal part of his inner life. In fact, Betty
Jo knew Brian Kent more intimately at the close of their first meeting than she could have
known him after years of acquaintanceship under the ordinary course of development.

Brian's consciousness of this would naturally cause him to feel toward the young woman as though
she had long been a part of his life. Still other causes might have contributed to the intimate
companionship that so quickly became to them both an established and taken-for-granted fact;
but, the circumstances of their first meeting, given, of course, their peculiar individualities,
were, really, quite enough. The fact that it was springtime might also have had something to
do with it.

The morning after her arrival, Betty Jo set to work typing the manuscript. Brian went to his
work on the timbered hillside. In the evenings, Brian worked over the typewitten pages,--revising,
correcting, perfecting,--and then, as Betty Jo made the final copy for the printers, they went
critically over the work together.

So the hours flew past on busy wings, and the days of the springtime drew toward summer. The
tender green of the new-born leaves and grasses changed to a stronger, deeper tone. The air,
which had been so filled with the freshness and newness of bursting buds and rain-blessed soil,
and all the quickening life of tree and bush and plant, now carried the perfume of strongly
growing things,--the feel of maturing life.

To Brian, the voices of the river brought a fuller, deeper message, with a subtle undertone
of steady and enduring purpose.

From the beginning, Betty Jo established for herself the habit of leaving her work at the typewriter
in the afternoons, and going for a walk over the hills. Quite incidentally, at first, her walks
occasionally led her by way of the clearing where Brian was at work with his ax, and it followed,
naturally, that as the end of the day drew near, the two would go together down the mountain-side
to the evening meal. But long before the book was finished, the little afternoon visit and
the walk together at the day's close had become so established as a custom that they both accepted
it as a part of their day's life; and to Brian, at least, it was an hour to which he looked
forward as the most delightful hour of the twenty-four. As for Betty Jo,--well, it was really
Betty Jo who established the custom and developed it to that point where it was of such importance.

Auntie Sue was too experienced from her life-long study of boys and girls not to observe the
deepening of the friendship between the man and the woman whom she had brought together. But
if the dear old lady felt any twinges of an apprehensive conscience, when she saw the pair
day after day coming down the mountain-side through the long shadows of the late afternoon,
she very promptly banished them, and, quite consistently, with what Brian called her "River
philosophy," made no attempt to separate these two life currents, which, for the time at least,
seemed to be merging into one.

And often, as the three sat together on the porch after supper to watch the sunsets, or later
in the evening as Auntie Sue sat with her sewing while they were busy with their work and unobserving,
the dear old lady would look at them with a little smile of tender meaning, and into the gentle
eyes would come that far-away look that was born of the memories that had so sweetened the
long years of her life, and of the hope and dream of a joy unspeakable that awaited her beyond
the sunset of her day.

In her long letter to Betty Jo, asking the girl to come, Auntie Sue had told the young woman
the main facts of Brian's history as she knew them, omitting only the man's true name and the
name of the bank. She had even mentioned her conviction that there had been a woman in his
trouble. But Auntie Sue had not mentioned in her letter the money she had lost; nor did she
now know that Brian had himself told Betty Jo at the time of their first meeting.

On the day that Betty Jo typed the last page, and the book was ready for the printers, the
young woman went earlier than usual to the clearing where Brian was at work. The sound of his
ax reached her while she was yet some distance away, and guided her to the spot where he was
chopping a big white oak.

Brian, with his eyes fixed on the widening cut at the base of the tree, did not notice the
girl, who stood watching him. She was smiling to herself at his ignorance of her presence and
in anticipation of the moment when he should discover her, and there was in her eyes a look
of wholesome womanly admiration for the man who swung his ax with such easy strength. In truth,
Brian Kent at his woodman's labor made a picture not at all unattractive.

Swiftly, the cut in the tree-trunk widened as the ax bit deeply at every skilful stroke, and
the chips flew about the chopper's feet. The acrid odor of the freshly cut oak mingled with
the woodland perfume. The sun warmly flooded the clearing with its golden light, and, splashing
through the openings in the forest foliage, formed pools of yellow beauty amid the dark, rich
green of the shadowy undergrowth. The air was filled with the sense of life, vital and real,
and strong and beautiful.

And the young woman, as she stood smiling there, was keenly conscious of it all. Most of all,
perhaps, Betty Jo was conscious of the man, who worked with such vigor at his manly task.

Slowly, accurately, the bright ax sank deeper and deeper into the heart of the tree. The chips
increased in scattered profusion. And then, as Betty Jo watched, the swinging ax cut through
the last fibre of the tree's strength, and the leafy top swayed gently toward its fall. Almost
imperceptibly, at first, it moved while Betty Jo watched breathlessly. Brian swung his ax with
increasing vigor, now, while the wood, still remaining, cracked and snapped as the weight of
the tree completed the work of the chopper. Faster and faster the towering mass of foliage
swung in a wide graceful arc toward the ground. The man with the ax stepped back, his eyes
fixed on the falling tree as, with swiftly increasing momentum, its great weight swept swiftly
downward to its crashing end.

Betty Jo clapped her hands in triumph; and Brian, turning, saw her standing there. His face
was flushed and glistening with perspiration; his broad chest heaved with the deep breathing
gained by his exertion, and his eyes shone with the gladness of her presence.

"You are early, to-day!" he cried. "Have you finished? Is it actually completed?"

"All finished," she returned; and, going to the fallen tree, she put her hands curiously on
the trunk, which lay a little higher than her waist. "Help me up," she commanded.

Brian set his ax against the stump, and, laughingly, lifted her to the seat she desired. Then
he stood watching her face as she surveyed the tangled mass of branches.

"It looks so strange from here, doesn't it?" she said.

"Yes; and I confess I don't like to see it that way;" he returned. "I wish they didn't have
to be cut. I feel like a murderer,--every one I fall."

She looked down into his eyes, as she returned: "I know you must. YOU would, of course. But,
after all, it has to be, and I don't suppose the tree minds so much, do you?"

"No; I don't suppose it feels it much." He laughed, and, throwing aside his hat, he ran his
fingers through his tumbled hair for all the world like a schoolboy confused by being caught
in some sentimental situation which he finds not only embarrassing, but puzzling as well.

"I like you for feeling that way about it, though," Betty Jo confessed with characteristic
frankness. "And I am sure it must be a very good thing for the world that every one is not
so intensely practical that they can chop down trees without a pang. And that reminds me: Speaking
of the practical, now that the book is finished, what are we going to do with it?"

"Send it to some publisher, I suppose," answered Brian, soberly; "and then, when they have
returned it, send it to some other publisher."

"Have you any particular publisher to whom you will send it first?" she asked.

"They are all alike, so far as my experience goes," he returned.

"I suppose it would be best if you could take your book East, and interview the publishers
personally, don't you think?"

Brian shook his head: "I am not sure that it would make any difference, and, in any case, I
couldn't do it."

"I know," said Betty Jo, "and that is what I wanted to get at. Why don't you appoint me your
agent, and let me take your book East, and make the publishing arrangements for you?"

Brian looked at her with such delighted surprise that Betty Jo smiled back at him well pleased.

"Would you really do it?" he demanded, as though he feared she was jesting.

"You are sure that you don't mean 'COULD I do it'?"--she returned,--"sure you could trust me?"

To which Brian answered enthusiastically: "You could do anything! If you undertake the job
of landing a publisher for my stuff, it is as good as done."

"Thank you," she said, jumping down from the tree-trunk. "Now that we have settled it, let
us go to the house and tell Auntie Sue, and I will start in the morning."

As they went down the hill, they discussed the matter further, and, later, at the house, Brian
took a moment, when Auntie Sue was in her room, to hand an envelope to his assistant. "Your
salary," he said, hurriedly, "and expense money for the trip."

"Oh!" Betty Jo's exclamation was one of surprise. Then she said, in her most matter-of-fact,
businesslike tone: "Thank you. I will render a statement of my account, but--" For once, Betty
Jo seemed at a loss for words. "You don't mind if I ask--is--is this money--?"

Brian's face was a study. "Yes," he said, "it is really Auntie Sue's money; but it is all I
have, and I can't return it to her--without her knowing--so I--"

Betty Jo interrupted: "I understand. It is all we can do,--forgive me?"

Brian Kent did not know that Betty Jo, a few minutes later, buried the envelope he had given
her deep in the bottom of her trunk without even opening it.

The next day, Brian drove to Thompsonville with Betty Jo, who took the noon train for the East.

The two were rather quiet as "Old Prince" jogged soberly along the beautiful river road. Only
now and then did they exchange a few words of the most commonplace observation.

They were within sight of the little Ozark settlement when Brian said, earnestly: "I wish I
could tell you, Miss Williams, just what your coming to help me with this work has meant to me."

"It has meant a great deal to me, too, Mr. Burns," she returned. Then she added quickly: "I
suppose the first real work one does after finishing school always means more than any position
following could possibly mean, don't you think? Just like your book. No matter how many you
may write in the future, this will always mean more to you than any one of them."

"Yes," he said slowly. "This book will always mean more to me than all the others I may write."

For a moment their eyes met with unwavering frankness. Then Betty Jo turned her face away,
and Brian stiffened his shoulders, and sat a little straighter in the seat beside her. That
was all.

Very brave they were at the depot purchasing Betty Jo's ticket and checking her trunk. With
brave commonplaces they said good-bye when the train pulled in. Bravely she waved at him from
the open window of the coach. And bravely Brian stood there watching until the train rounded
the curve and disappeared from sight between the hills.

The world through which Brian Kent drove that afternoon on his way back to Auntie Sue and Judy
in the little log house by the river was a very dull and uninteresting world indeed. All its
brightness and its beauty seemed suddenly to have vanished. And as "Old Prince" jogged patiently
on his way, sleepily content with thoughts of his evening meal of hay and grain, the man's
mind was disturbed with thoughts which he dared not own even to his innermost self.

"Circumstances to a man," Auntie Sue had said, "always meant a woman." And Brian Kent, while
he never under any pressure would have admitted it, knew within his deepest self that it was
a woman who had set him adrift on the dark river that dreadful night when he had cursed the
world which he thought he was leaving forever.

"Circumstances" in the person of Auntie Sue had saved him from destruction, and, in the little
log house by the river, had brought about his Re-Creation.

And then, when that revelation of his crime toward Auntie Sue had come, and the labor of months,
with all that it implied of the enduring salvation of himself and the happiness of Auntie Sue,
hung wavering in the balance, it was the "Circumstances" of Betty Jo's coming that had set
him in the right current of action again.

What waited for him around the next bend in the river, Brian wondered,--calm and peaceful waters,
with gently flowing currents, or the wild tumult of dangerous rapids wherein he would be forced
to fight for his very existence? Would Betty Jo succeed as his agent to the publishers? If
she did succeed in finding a publisher to accept his book, would the reading public receive
his message? And if that followed, what then? When Betty Jo's mission in the East was accomplished,
she was to return to Auntie Sue for the summer. Then--?

"Old Prince," of his own accord, was turning in at the gate, and Brian awoke from his abstraction
to see Auntie Sue and Judy waiting for him.

All during the evening meal and while he sat with Auntie Sue on the porch overlooking the river,
as their custom was, Brian was preoccupied and silent; while his companion, with the wisdom
of her seventy years, did not force the conversation.

It was the time of the full moon, and when Auntie Sue at last bade him good-night, Brian, saying
that the evening was too lovely to waste in sleep, remained on the porch. For an hour, perhaps,
he sat there alone; but his thoughts were not on the beauties of the scene that lay before
him in all its dreamy charm of shadowy hills and moonlit river. He had no ear for the soft
voices of the night. The gentle breeze carried to him the low, deep-toned roar of the crashing
waters at Elbow Rock; but he did not hear. Moved at last by a feeling of restless longing,
and the certainty that only a sleepless bed awaited him in the house, he left the porch to
stroll along the bank of the river.

CHAPTER XVI.

THE SECRET OF AUNTIE SUE'S LIFE.

Brian Kent, strolling along the bank of the river in the moonlight, and preoccupied with thoughts
that were, at the last, more dreams than thoughts, was not far from the house when a sound
from behind some near-by bushes broke in upon his reveries. A moment, he listened. Then telling
himself that it was some prowling animal, or perhaps, a bird that his presence had disturbed,
he went on. But he had gone only a few feet farther when he was conscious of something stealthily
following him. Stepping behind the trunk of a tree, he waited, watching. Then he saw a form
moving toward him through the shadows of the bushes. Another moment, and the form left the
concealing shadow, and, in the bright moonlight, he recognized Judy.

At first, the man's feeling was that of annoyance. He did not wish to be disturbed at such
a time by the presence of the mountain girl. But his habitual gentleness toward poor Judy,
together with a very natural curiosity as to why she was following him at that time of the
night, when he had supposed her in bed and asleep, led him to greet her kindly as he came from
behind the tree: "Well, Judy, are you, too, out enjoying the moonlight?"

The girl stopped suddenly and half-turned as if to run; but, at his words, stood still.

"What is it, Judy?" he asked, going to her. "What is the matter?"

"There's a heap the matter!" she answered, regarding him with that sly oblique look; while
Brian noticed a feeling of intense excitement in her voice. "I don't know what you-all are
a-goin' ter think of me, but I'm bound ter tell you just the same,--seems like I got ter,--even
if you-all was ter lick me for hit like pap used ter."

"Why, Judy, dear," the puzzled man returned, soothingly, "you know I would never strike you,
no matter what you did. Come, sit down here on this log, and tell me about whatever it is that
troubles you; then you can go back to sleep again."

"I ain't a-wantin' ter set down. I ain't been asleep. Hit seems like I can't never sleep no
more." She wrung her hands and turned her poor twisted body about nervously; then demanded
with startling abruptness: "When do you-all 'low she'll git back?"

The wondering Brian did not at first catch her meaning, and she continued, with an impatient
jerk of her head: "Hit's that there gal with the no-'count name, Betty Jo, I'm a-talkin' 'bout."

"Oh, you mean Miss Williams," Brian returned. "Why, I suppose she will be back in two or three
weeks, or a month, perhaps; I don't know exactly, Judy. Why?"

"'Cause I'm a-tellin' you-all not ter let her come back here ever," came the startling answer,
in a voice that was filled with menacing anger. Then, before Brian could find a word to reply,
the mountain girl continued, with increasing excitement: "You-all dassn't let her come back
here, nohow, 'cause, if you do, I'll hurt her, sure. You-all have been a-thinkin' as how I
was plumb blind, I reckon; but I seen you,--every evenin', when she'd pretend ter just go for
a walk an' then'd make straight for the clearin' where you was a-choppin', an' then you'd quit,
an' set with her up there on the hill. Youuns never knowed I was a-watchin' from the bresh
all the time, did you? Well, I was; an' when youuns'd walk down ter the house, so slow like
an' close together, I'd sneak ahead, an' beat you home; but all the time I was a-seein' you,
an' youuns never knowed, 'cause youuns just naturally couldn't see nor hear nothin' but each
other. Don't you-all 'low as how I'd know by the way you looked at her, while youuns was a-fixin'
that there book, every night, what you-all was a-thinkin' 'bout her? My God-A'mighty! hit was
just as plain ter me as if you was a-sayin' hit right out loud all the time,--a heap plainer
hit was than if you'd done writ' hit down in your book. I can't make out ter read print much,
nohow, like youuns kin; but I sure kin see what I see. I--"

"Judy! Judy!" Brian broke the stream of the excited girl's talk. "What in the world are you
saying? What do you mean, child?"

"You-all knows dad burned well what I'm a-meanin'!" she retorted, with increasing anger. "I'm
a-meanin' that you-all are plumb lovin' that there Betty Jo gal,--that's what I'm a-meanin'!--an'
you-all sure ain't got ary right for ter go an' do sich a thing, nohow!"

Brian tried to check her, but she silenced him with: "I won't neither hush! I can't! I tell
you I'm a-goin' ter say my say if you-all kills me! I've just naturally got ter! Seems like
I was all afire inside an' would burn plumb up if I didn't! I've got rights, I reckon, if I
be all crooked an' twisted out er shape, an' ugly-faced an' no learnin', ner nothin'."

A dry sob choked the torrent of words for an instant; but, with a savage effort she went on:
"I know I ain't nothin' alongside of her, but you-all ain't a-goin' ter have her just the same,--not
if I have ter kill her first! You ain't got no right ter have her, nohow, 'cause hit's like's
not you-all done got a woman already somewheres, wherever 'twas you-all come from; an' even
if you ain't got no woman already, I sure ain't a-goin' ter let you have her! What'd she ever
do for you? Hit was me what dragged you-all from the river when you was mighty nigh dead from
licker an' too plumb sick ter save yourself! Hit's me that's kept from tellin' the Sheriff
who you be an' a-takin' that there reward-money! Hit was me what jumped inter the river above
Elbow Rock just ter git your dad burned old book, when you'd done throwed hit plumb away!

"I knowed first time I heard Auntie Sue name her what she'd do ter you! Any fool would a-knowed
what a woman with a half-gal, half-boy name like her'n would do, an' she's done hit,--she sure
has! But she ain't a-goin' ter do no more! You-all belongs ter me a heap more'n you do ter
her,--if hit comes ter that,--though, I ain't a-foolin' myself none a-thinkin' that sich as
you could ever take up with sich as me,--me bein' what I am. No, sir; I ain't never fooled
myself ary bit like that, Mr. Burns. But hit ain't a-makin' no difference how ugly an' crooked
an' no 'count I be outside; the inside of me is a-lovin' you like she never could, ner nobody
else, I reckon. An' I'll just go on a-lovin' you, no matter what happens; an' I ain't a-carin'
whether you got a woman already er not, er whether you-all have robbed er killed, er what you
done. An'--an'--so I'm a-tellin' you, you'd best not let her come back here no more, 'cause--'cause
I just naturally can't stand hit ter see youuns tergether! 'Fore God, I'm a-tellin' you true,--I'll
sure hurt her!"

The girl's voice raised to a pitch of frenzied excitement, and, whirling, she pointed to the
river, as she cried: "Look out there! What do you-all reckon your fine Betty Jo lady would
do if I was ter git her ketched in them there rapids? What do you-all reckon the Elbow Rock
water would do ter her? I'll tell you what hit'd do: Hit would smash an' grind an' tear an'
hammer that there fine, straight body of hers 'til hit was all broken an' twisted an' crooked
a heap worse'n what I be,--that's what hit would do; an' hit would scratch an' cut an' beat
up that pretty face an' mess up her pretty hair an' choke her an' smother her 'til she was
all blue-black an' muddy, an' her eyes was red an' starin', an' she was nothin' but just an
ugly lump of dirt; an' hit wouldn't even leave her her fine clothes neither,--the Elbow Rock
water wouldn't,--hit'd just naturally tear 'em off her, an' leave her 'thout ary thing what's
makin' you love her like you're a-doin'! An' where would all her fine schoolin' an' smart talk
an' pretty ways be then? Eh? She wouldn't be no better, nor half as good as me, I'm a-tellin'
you, onct Elbow Rock got done with her!"

The poor creature finished in wild triumph; then suddenly, as though spent with the very fury
of her passion, she turned from the river, and said dully: "You'd sure best not let her come
back, sir! 'Fore God, I ain't a-wantin' ter do hit, but hit seems like I can't help myself;
I can't sleep for wantin' ter fix hit so,--so's you just couldn't want ter have her no more'n
you're a-wantin' me. I--I--sure ain't a-foolin' myself none, not ary bit, a-thinkin' you-all
could ever git ter likin' sich as me; but, I can't help sort of dreamin' 'bout hit an' a-pretendin',
an'--an' all the while I'm a-knowin', inside er me like, that there ain't nobody,--not Auntie
Sue, nor this here Betty Jo, nor that there other woman, nor anybody,--what kin care for you
like I'm a-carin',--they just naturally couldn't care like me; 'cause--'cause, you see, sir,
I ain't got nobody else,--ain't no man but you ever even been decent ter me. I sure ain't got
nobody else--"

The distraught creature's sobs prevented further speech, and she dropped down on the ground,
weak and exhausted; her poor twisted body shaking and writhing with the emotion she could not
voice.

For a little while, Brian Kent himself was as helpless as Judy. He could only stand dumbly,
staring at her as she crouched at his feet. Then, very gently, he lifted her from the ground,
and tried as best he could to comfort her. But he felt his words to be very shallow and inadequate,
even though his own voice was trembling with emotion.

"Come, Judy, dear," he said, at last, when she seemed to have in a measure regained her self-control.
"Come. You must go back to the house, child."

Drawing away from his supporting arm, she answered, quietly: "I ain't no child, no more, Mr.
Burns: I'm sure a woman, now. I'm just as much a woman as--as--she is, if I be like what I
am. I'm plumb sorry I had ter do this; but I just naturally couldn't help hit. You ain't got
no call ter be scared I'll do hit again."

When they were nearing the house, Judy stopped again, and, for a long minute, looked silently
out over the moonlit river, while Brian stood watching her.

"Hit is pretty, ain't hit, Mr. Burns?" she said at last. "With the hills all so soft an'--an'
dreamy-like, an' them clouds a-floatin' 'way up there over the top of Table Mountain; with
the moon makin' 'em all silvery an' shiny 'round the edges, an' them trees on yon side the
river lookin' like they was made er smoke er fog er somethin' like that; an' the old river
hitself a-layin' there in The Bend like--like a long strip of shinin' gold,--hit sure is pretty!
Funny, I couldn't never see hit that a-way before,--ain't hit?"

"Yes, Judy; it is beautiful to-night," he said.

But Judy, apparently without hearing him, continued: "'Seems like I can sense a little ter-night
what Auntie Sue an' youuns are allus a-talkin' 'bout the river,--'bout hit's bein' like life
an' sich as that. An' hit 'pears like I kin kind of git a little er what you done wrote 'bout
hit in your book,--'bout the currents an' the still places an' the rough water an' all. I reckon
as how I'm a part of your river, too, ain't I, Mr. Burns?"

"Yes, Judy," he answered, wonderingly; "we are all parts of the river."

"I reckon you're right," she continued. "Hit sure 'pears ter be that a-way. But I kin tell
you-all somethin' else 'bout the river what you didn't put down in your book, Mr. Burns: There's
heaps an' heaps er snags an' quicksands an' sunk rocks an' shaller places where hit looks deep
an' deep holes where hit looks shaller, an' currents what's hid 'way down under that'll ketch
an' drag you in when you ain't a-thinkin', an' drown you sure. 'Tain't all of the river what
Auntie Sue an' youuns kin see from the porch. You see, I knows 'bout hit,--'bout them other
things I mean,--'cause I was borned and growed up a-knowin' 'bout 'em; an'--an'--the next time
you-all writes er book, Mr. Burns, I 'low you-all ought ter put in 'bout them there snags an'
things, 'cause folks sure got ter know 'bout 'em, if they ain't a-wantin' ter git drowned."

When Judy had gone into the house, Brian again sat alone on the porch.

An hour, perhaps, had passed when a voice behind him said: "Why, Brian, are you still up? I
supposed you were in bed long ago."

He turned to see Auntie Sue, standing in the doorway.

"And what in the world are you prowling about for, this time of the night?" Brian retorted,
bringing a chair for her.

"I am prowling because I couldn't sleep,--thinking about you, Brian," she answered.

"I fear that is the thing that is keeping me up, too," he returned grimly.

"I know," she said gently. "Sometimes, one's self does keep one awake. Is it--is it anything
you care to tell me? Would it help for me to know?"

For some time, he did not answer; while the old teacher waited silently. At last, he spoke,
slowly: "Auntie Sue, what is the greatest wrong that a woman can do?"

"The greatest wrong a woman can do, Brian, is the greatest wrong that a man can do."

"But, what is it, Auntie Sue?" he persisted.

"I think," she answered,--"indeed I am quite sure,--that the greatest wrong is for a woman
to kill a man's faith in woman; and for a man to kill a woman's faith in man."

Brian Kent buried his face in his hands.

"Am I right, dear?" asked the old gentlewoman, after a little.

And Brian Kent answered: "Yes, Auntie Sue, you are right--that is the greatest wrong."

Again they were silent. It was as though few words were needed between the woman of seventy
years and this man who, out of some great trouble, had been so strangely brought to her by
the river.

Then the silvery-haired old teacher spoke again: "Brian, have you ever wondered that I am so
alone in the world? Have you ever asked yourself why I never married?"

"Yes, Auntie Sue," he answered. "I have wondered."

"Many people have," she said, with simple frankness. Then--"I am going to tell you something,
dear boy, that only two people in the world beside myself ever knew, and they are both dead,
many years now. I am going to tell you, because I feel--because I think--that, perhaps, it
may help you a little. I, too, Brian, had my dreams when I was a girl,--my dreams of happiness,--such
as every true woman hopes for;--of a home with all that home means;--of a lover-husband;--of
little ones who would call me 'mother';--and my dreams ended, Brian, on a battlefield of the
Civil War. He went from me the very day we were promised. He never returned. I have always
felt that we were as truly one as though the church had solemnized and the law had legalized
our union. I promised that I would wait for him."

"And you--you have kept that promise? You have been true to that memory?" Brian Kent asked,
wonderingly.

"I have been true to him, Brian;--all the years of my life I have been true to him."

Brian Kent bowed his head, reverently.

Rising, the old gentlewoman went close to him, and put her hands on his shoulders. "Brian,
dear, I have told you my secret because I thought it might help you to know. Oh, my boy--my
boy,--don't--don't let anything--don't let anyone--kill your faith in womanhood! No matter
how bitter your experience, you can believe, now, that there are women who can be faithful
and true. Surely, you can believe it now, Brian,--you must!"

And as he caught her hands in his, and raised his face to whisper, "I do believe, Auntie Sue,"
she stooped and kissed him.

Then, again, Brian Kent was alone in the night with his thoughts.

And the river swept steadily on its shining way through the moonlit world to the distant sea.

CHAPTER XVII.

AN AWKWARD SITUATION.

Frequent letters from Betty Jo informed Brian and Auntie Sue of that practical and businesslike
young woman's negotiations with various Eastern publishers, until, at last, the matter was
finally settled to Betty Jo's satisfaction.

She had contracted with a well-known firm for the publication of the book. The details were
all arranged. The work was to begin immediately. Betty Jo was returning to the little log house
by the river.

Brian drove to Thompsonville the morning she was to arrive, and it seemed to him that "Old
Prince" had never jogged so leisurely along the winding river road, yet he was at the little
mountain station nearly an hour before the train was due.

Those weeks had been very anxious weeks to Brian, in spite of Auntie Sue's oft-repeated assurances
that no publisher could fail to recognize the value of his work. And, to be entirely truthful,
Brian himself, deep down in his heart, felt a certainty that his work would receive recognition.
But, still, he would argue with himself, his feeling of confidence might very well be due to
the dear old gentlewoman's enthusiastic faith in him rather than in any merit in the book itself;
and it was a well-established fact--to all unpublished writers at least--that publishers are
a heartless folk, and exceedingly loth to extend a helpful hand to unrecognized genius, however
great the worth of its offering. He could scarcely believe the letters which announced the
good news. It did not seem possible that this all-important first step toward the success which
Auntie Sue so confidently predicted for his book was now an accomplished fact.

And now that Betty Jo's mission was completed, it seemed months ago that he had said good-bye
to her and had watched the train disappear between the hills. But when at last the long whistle
echoing and reechoing from the timbered mountain-sides announced the coming of the train that
was bringing her back, and the train itself a moment later burst into view and, with a rushing
roar of steam and wheels and brakes, came to a stop at the depot platform, and there was Betty
Jo herself, it seemed that it was only yesterday that she had gone away.

Very calm and self-possessed and well poised was Betty Jo when she stepped from the train to
meet him. She was very capable and businesslike as she claimed her baggage and saw it safely
in the spring wagon. But still there was a something in her manner--a light in the gray eyes,
perhaps, or a quality in the clear voice--that meant worlds more to the man than her simple
statement, that she was glad to see him again. Laughingly, she refused to tell him about her
trip as they rode home, saying that Auntie Sue must hear it all with him. And so conscious
was the man of her presence there beside him that, somehow, the prospective success or failure
of his book did not so much matter, after all.

In the excitement of the joyous meeting between Auntie Sue and Betty Jo, Judy's stoical self-repression
was unnoticed. The mountain girl went about her part of the household work silently with apparent
indifference to the young woman's presence. But when, after the late dinner was over, Auntie
Sue and Brian listened to Betty Jo's story, Judy, unobserved, was nearby, so that no word of
the conversation escaped her.

Three times that night, when all was still in the little log house by the river, the door of
Judy's room opened cautiously, and the twisted form of the mountain girl appeared. Each time,
for a few minutes, she stood there in the moonlight that shone through the open window into
the quiet room, listening, listening; then went stealthily to the door of the room where Betty
Jo was sleeping, and each time she paused before that closed door to look fearfully about the
dimly lighted living room. Once she crept to Brian's door, and then to Auntie Sue's, and once
she silently put her hand on the latch of that door between her and Betty Jo; but, each time,
she went stealthily back to her own room.

Betty Jo awoke early that morning. Outside her open window the birds were singing, and the
sun, which was just above the higher mountain-tops, was flooding the world with its wealth
of morning beauty. The music of the feathery chorus and the golden beauty of the light that
streamed through the window into her room, with the fresh enticing perfume of the balmy air,
were very alluring to the young woman just returned from the cities' stale and dingy atmosphere.

Betty Jo decided instantly that she must go for a before-breakfast walk. From the window, as
she dressed, she saw Brian going to the barn with the milk-pail, and heard him greet the waiting
"Bess" and exchange a cheery good-morning with "Old Prince," who hailed his coming with a low
whinny.

Quietly, so as not to disturb Auntie Sue, Betty Jo slipped from the house and went down the
gentle slope to the river-bank, and strolled along the margin of the stream toward Elbow Rock,--pausing
sometimes to look out over the water as her attention was drawn to some movement of the river
life, or turning aside to pluck a wild flower that caught her eye. She had made her way thus
leisurely two-thirds of the distance perhaps from the house to Elbow Rock bluff when Judy suddenly
confronted her. The mountain girl came so unexpectedly from among the bushes that Betty Jo,
who was stooping over a flower, was startled.

"Judy!" she exclaimed. "Goodness! child, how you frightened me!" she finished with a good-natured
laugh. But as she noticed the mountain girl's appearance, the laugh died on her lips, and her
face was grave with puzzled concern.

Poor Judy's black hair was uncombed and dishevelled. The sallow, old-young face was distorted
with passion, and the beady eyes glittered with the light of an insane purpose.

"What is it, Judy?" asked Betty Jo. "What in the world is the matter?"

"What'd you-all come back for?" demanded Judy with sullen menace in every word. "I done told
him not ter let you. Hit 'pears ter me youuns ought ter have more sense."

Alarmed at the girl's manner, Betty Jo thought to calm her by saying, gently: "Why, Judy, dear,
you are all excited and not a bit like yourself. Tell me what troubles you. I came back because
I love to be here with Auntie Sue, of course. Why shouldn't I some if Auntie Sue likes to have me?"

"You-all are a-lyin'," returned Judy viciously. "But you-all sure can't fool me. You-all come
back 'cause he's here."

A warm blush colored Betty Jo's face.

Judy's voice raised shrilly as she saw the effect of her words.

"You-all knows dad burned well that's what you come back for. But hit ain't a-goin' ter do
you no good; hit sure ain't. I done told him. I sure warned him what'd happen if he let you
come back. I heard you-all a-talkin' yesterday evenin' all 'bout his book an' what a great
man that there publisher-feller back East 'lows he's goin' ter be. An' I kin see, now, that
you-all has knowed hit from the start, an' that's why you-all been a-fixin' ter git him away
from me. I done studied hit all out last night; but I sure ain't a-goin' ter let you do hit."

As she finished, the mountain girl, who had worked herself into a frenzy of rage, moved stealthily
toward Betty Jo, and her face, with those blazing black eyes, and its frame of black unkempt
hair, and its expression of insane fury, was the face of a fiend.

Betty Jo drew back, frightened at the poor creature's wild and threatening appearance.

"Judy!" she said sharply. "Judy! What do you mean!"

With a snarling grin of malicious triumph, Judy cried: "Scared, ain't you! You sure got reason
ter be, 'cause there ain't nothin' kin stop me now. Know what I'm a-goin' ter do? I'm a-goin'
ter put you-all in the river, just like I told him, an' old Elbow Rock is a-goin' ter make
you-all broken an' twisted an' ugly like what my pap made me. Oh, hit'll sure fix that there
fine slim body of your'n, an' that there pretty face what he likes ter look at so, an' them
fine clothes'll be all wet an' mussed an' torn off you. You-all sure will be a-lookin' worse'n
what I ever looked the next time he sees you,--you with your no-'count, half-gal and half-boy
name!"

As the mountain girl, with the quickness of a wild thing, leaped upon her, Betty Jo screamed--one
piercing cry, that ended in a choking gasp as Judy's hands found her throat.

Brian, who was still at the barn, busy with the morning chores, heard. With all his might,
he ran toward the spot from which the call came.

Betty Jo fought desperately; but, strong as she was, she could never have endured against the
vicious strength of the frenzied mountain-bred Judy, who was slowly and surely forcing her
toward the brink of the river-bank, against which the swift waters of the rapids swept with
terrific force.

A moment more and Brian would have been too late. Throwing Judy aside, he caught the exhausted
Betty Jo in his arms, and, carrying her a little back from the edge of the stream, placed her
gently on the ground.

Betty Jo did not faint; but she was too spent with her exertions to speak, though she managed
to smile at him reassuringly, and shook her head when he asked if she was hurt.

When Brian was assured that the girl was really unharmed, he turned angrily to face Judy. But
Judy had disappeared in the brush.

Presently, as Betty Jo's breathing became normal, she arranged her disordered hair and dress,
and told Brian what the mountain girl had said; and this, of course, forced the man to relate
his experience with Judy that night when she had told him that Betty Jo must not come back.

"I suppose I should have warned you, Miss Williams," he finished; "but the whole thing seemed
to me so impossible, I could not believe there was any danger of the crazy creature actually
attempting to carry out her wild threat; and, besides,--well, you can see that it was rather
difficult for me to speak of it to you. I am sorry," he ended, with embarrassment.

For a long moment, the two looked at each other silently; then Betty Jo's practical common
sense came to the rescue: "It would have been awkward for you to try to tell me, wouldn't it,
Mr. Burns? And now that it is all over, and no harm done, we must just forget it as quickly
as we can. We won't ever mention it again, will we?"

"Certainly not," he agreed heartily. "But I shall keep an eye on Miss Judy, in the future,
I can promise you."

"I doubt if we ever see her again," returned Betty Jo, thoughtfully. "I don't see how she would
dare go back to the house after this. I expect she will return to her father. Poor thing! But
we must be careful not to let Auntie Sue know." Then smiling up at him, she added: "It seems
like Auntie Sue is getting us into all sorts of conspiracies, doesn't it? What DO you suppose
we will be called upon to hide from her next?"

At Brian's suggestion, they went first to the barn, where he quickly finished his work. Then,
carrying the full milk-pail between them, they proceeded, laughing and chatting, to the house,
where Auntie Sue stood in the doorway.

The dear old lady smiled when she saw them coming so, and, returning their cheery greeting
happily, added: "Have you children seen Judy anywhere? The child is not in her room, and the
fire is not even made in the kitchen-stove yet."

CHAPTER XVIII.

BETTY JO FACES HERSELF.

All that day Auntie Sue wondered about Judy, while Brian and Betty Jo exhausted their inventive
faculties in efforts to satisfy the dear old lady with plausible reasons for the mountain girl's
disappearance.

During the forenoon, Brian canvassed the immediate neighborhood, and returned with the true
information that Judy had stopped at the first house below Elbow Rock for breakfast, where
she had told the people that she was going back to her father, because she was "doggone tired
of working for them there city folks what was a-livin' at Auntie Sue's."

This was, in a way, satisfactory to Auntie Sue, because it assured her that the girl had met
with no serious accident and because she knew very well the mountain-bred girl's ability to
take care of herself in the hills. But, still, the gentle mistress of the log house by the
river was troubled to think that Judy would leave her so without a word.

Betty Jo was so occupied during the day by her efforts to relieve Auntie Sue that she had but
little time left for thought of herself or for reflecting on the situation revealed in her
encounter with Judy. But many times during the day the mountain girl's passionate accusation
came back to her, "You-all are a-lyin'! You-all come back 'cause HE is here." Nor could she
banish from her memory the look that was on Brian Kent's face that morning when he was carrying
her in his arms back from the brink of the river-bank, over which the frenzied Judy had so
nearly sent her to her death. And so, when the day at last was over, and she was alone in her
room, it was not strange that Betty Jo should face herself squarely with several definite and
pointed and exceedingly personal questions.

It was like Betty Jo to be honest with herself and to demand of herself that her problems be
met squarely.

"First of all, Betty Jo," she demanded, in her downright, straightforward way of going most
directly to the heart of a matter, "are you in love with Brian Kent?"

Without hesitation, the answer came, "I have not permitted myself to love him."

"You have not permitted yourself to love him? That means that you would be in love with him
if you dared, doesn't it?"

And Betty Jo, in the safe seclusion of her room, felt her cheeks burn as she acknowledged the
truth of the deduction.

The next question was inevitable: "Is Brian Kent in love with you, Betty Jo?"

And Betty Jo, recalling many, many things, was compelled to answer, from the triumphant gladness
of her heart: "He is trying not to be, but he can't help himself. And"--the downright and straightforward
young woman continued--"because I know that Brian Kent is trying so hard not to love me is
the real reason why I have not permitted myself to love him."

But the clear-thinking, practical Betty Jo protested quickly: "You must remember that you are
wholly ignorant of Brian Kent's history, except for the things he has chosen to tell you. And
those things in his life which he has confessed to you are certainly not the things that could
win the love of a girl like you, even though they might arouse your interest in the man. Interest
is not love, Betty Jo. Are you quite sure that you are not making the mistake that is most
commonly made by young women?"

Betty Jo was compelled to answer that she was not mistaking interest for love, because had
such been the case, she would not be able to so analyze the situation. Betty Jo's quite womanly
prejudice is admitted, because the prejudice was so womanly, and because Betty Jo herself was
so womanly.

"Very well, Miss Betty Jo," the young woman continued inexorably, "you are not permitting yourself
to love Brian Kent because Brian Kent is trying not to love you. But, why is the man trying
so hard not to love you?"

Betty Jo thought very hard over this question, and felt her way carefully to the answer. "It
might be, of course, that it is because he is a fugitive from the law. A man under such circumstances
could easily convince himself that no good woman would permit herself to love him, and he would
therefore, in reasonable self-defense, prevent himself from loving her if he could."

But surely Brian Kent had every reason to know that Betty Jo did not at all regard him as a
criminal. Betty Jo, as Auntie Sue, recognized only the re-created Brian Kent. If that were
all, they need only wait for the restitution which was so sure to come through his book. And
Brian Kent himself, through Auntie Sue's teaching and through his work, had come to recognize
only his real self, and not the creature of circumstances which the river had brought to the
little log house. Betty Jo felt sure that there was more than this that was forcing the man
to defend himself against his love for her. Thus she was driven to the conclusion that there
was something in Brian Kent's history that he had not made known to her,--a something that
denied him the right to love her, and that,--reasoned poor Betty Jo in the darkness of her
room,--could only be a woman,--a woman to whom he was bound, not by love indeed,--Betty Jo
could not believe that,--but by ties of honor and of the law.

And very clearly Betty Jo reasoned, too, that Brian's attitude toward her evidenced unmistakably
his high sense of honor. The very fact that he had so persistently--in all their companionship,
in their most intimate moments together even--held this invisible and, to her, unknown barrier
between them, convinced her beyond a doubt of the essential integrity of his character, and
compelled her admiration and confidence.

"That is exactly it, Betty Jo," she told herself sadly; "you love him because he tries so hard
to keep himself from loving you."

And thus Betty Jo proved the correctness of Auntie Sue's loving estimate of her character and
justified the dear old teacher's faith in the sterling quality of her womanhood.

Face to face with herself, fairly and squarely, the girl accepted the truth of the situation
for Brian and for herself, and determined her course. She must go away,--she must go at once.

She wished that she had not returned to the log house by the river. She had never fully admitted
to herself the truth of her feeling toward Brian until Judy had so unexpectedly precipitated
the crisis; but, she knew, now, that Judy was right, and that the real reason for her return
was her love for him. She knew, as well, that her very love,--which, once fully admitted and
recognized by her, demanded with all the strength of her young womanhood the nearness and companionship
of the mate her heart had chosen,--demanded, also, that she help him to keep that fine sense
of honor and true nobility of character which had won her.

She understood instinctively that,--now that she had confessed her love to herself,--she would,
in spite of herself, tempt him in a thousand ways to throw aside that barrier which he had
so honorably maintained between them. Her heart would plead with him to disregard his better
self, and come to her. Her very craving for the open assurance of his love would tempt him,
perhaps beyond his strength. And, yet, she knew as truly that, if he should yield; if he should
cast aside the barrier of his honor; if he should deny his best self, and answer her call,
it would be disastrous beyond measure to them both.

To save the fineness of their love, Betty Jo must go. If it should be that they never met again,
still she must go.

But there were other currents moving in the river that night. In the steady onward flow of
the whole, Betty Jo's life-currents seemed to be setting away from the man she loved. But other
currents, unknown to the girl, who faced herself so honestly, and who so bravely accepted the
truth she found, were moving in ways beyond her knowledge. Directed and influenced by innumerable
and unseen forces and obstacles, the currents which, combined, made the stream of life in its
entirety, were weaving themselves together,--interlacing and separating,--drawing close and
pulling apart,--only to mingle as one again.

Betty Jo saw only Brian Kent and herself, and their love which she now acknowledged, and she
had, as it were, only a momentary glimpse of those small parts of the stream.

Betty Jo could not know of those other currents that were moving so mysteriously about her
as the river poured itself onward so unceasingly to the sea.

CHAPTER XIX.

JUDY'S CONFESSION.

In spite of all their care, Brian and Betty Jo did not wholly convince Auntie Sue that there
was no more in Judy's disappearance than the report from the neighbors indicated. The dear
old lady felt that there was something known to the young people that they were keeping from
her; and, while she did not question their motives, and certainly did not worry,--for Auntie
Sue never worried,--she was not satisfied with the situation. When she retired to her room
for the night, she told herself, with some spirit, that she would surely go to the bottom of
the affair the next morning.

It happened that Auntie Sue went to the bottom of the affair much sooner than she expected.

It must have been about that same hour of the night when Betty Jo, after reaching her decision
to go away, retired to her bed, that Auntie Sue was aroused by a low knocking at the open window
of her room.

The old teacher listened without moving, her first thought being that her fancy was tricking
her. The sound came again, and, this time, there could be no mistake. Sitting up in her bed,
Auntie Sue looked toward the window, and, at the sound of her movement, a low whisper came
from without.

"Don't be scared, Auntie Sue. Hit ain't nobody but just me."

As she recognized Judy's voice, she saw the mountain girl's head and twisted shoulders outlined
above the window-sill. A moment more, and Auntie Sue was at the window.

"Sh-h-h!" cautioned Judy. "Don't wake 'em up. I just naturally got ter tell you-all somethin',
Auntie Sue; but, I ain't a-wantin' Mr. Burns an' that there Betty Jo woman ter hear. I reckon
I best come through the winder."

Acting upon the word, she climbed carefully into the room.

"Judy, child! What--?"

The mountain girl interrupted Auntie Sue's tremulous whisper with: "I'll tell hit ter you,
ma'm, in a little bit, if you'll just wait. I got ter see if they are sure 'nough a-sleepin'
first, though."

She stole silently from the room, to return a few minutes later. "They are plumb asleep, both
of 'em," she said in a low tone, when she had cautiously closed the door. "I done opened the
doors ter their rooms, an' listened, an' shet 'em again 'thout ary one of 'em a-movin' even.
I'll fix the winder, now, an' then we kin make a light."

Carefully, she closed the window and drew down the shade. Then she lit the lamp.

Auntie Sue, who was sitting on the bed, looked at the girl in bewildered amazement.

With a nervous laugh, Judy fingered her torn dress and dishevelled hair. "I sure am a sight,
ain't I, ma'm? I done hit a-comin' through the bresh in the dark. But, don't--don't--look so
kinder lost like; you-all ain't got no call ter be scared of me."

"Why, Judy, dear, I'm not afraid of you. Come, child; tell me what is the trouble."

At the kindly manner and voice of the old gentlewoman, those black eyes filled with tears,
which, for the moment, the mountain girl stoically permitted to roll down her thin sallow cheeks
unheeded. Then, with a quick resolute jerk of her twisted body, she drew her dress sleeve across
her face, and said: "I--I--reckon I couldn't hate myself no worse'n I'm a-doin'. Hit seems
like I been mighty nigh plumb crazy; but, I just naturally had ter come back an' tell you-all,
'cause you-all been so good ter me."

She placed a chair for Auntie Sue, and added: "You-all best make yourself comfertable, though,
ma'm. I'm mighty nigh tuckered out myself. Hit's a right smart way from where pap's a-livin'
ter here, an' I done come in a hurry."

She dropped down on the floor, her back against the bed, and clasped her knees in her hands,
as Auntie Sue seated herself.

"Begin at the beginning, Judy, and tell me exactly what has happened," said Auntie Sue.

"Yes, ma'm, I will,--that's what I was aimin' ter do when I made up ter come back."

And she did. Starting with her observation of Brian and Betty Jo, and her conviction of their
love, she told of her interview with Brian the night she warned him not to let Betty Jo return,
and finished with the account of her attack on Betty Jo that morning.

Auntie Sue listened with amazement and pity. Here, indeed, was a wayward and troubled life-current.

"But, Judy, Judy!" exclaimed the gentle old teacher, "you would not really have pushed Betty
Jo into the river. She would have been drowned, child. Surely, you did not mean to kill her, Judy."

The girl wrung her hands, and her deformed body swayed to and fro in the nervous intensity
of her emotions. But she answered, stubbornly: "That there was just what I was aimin' ter do.
I'd a-killed her, sure, if Mr. Burns hadn't a-come just when he did. I can't rightly tell how
hit was, but hit seemed like there was somethin' inside of me what was a-makin' me do hit,
an' I couldn't, somehow, help myself. An'--an'--that ain't all, ma'm; I done worse'n that,"
she continued in a low, moaning wail. "Oh, my God-A'mighty! Why didn't Mr. Burns sling me inter
the river an' let me be smashed an' drowned at Elbow Rock while he had me, 'stead of lettin'
me git away ter do what I've gone an' done!"

Auntie Sue's wonderful native strength enabled her to speak calmly: "What is it you have done,
Judy? You must tell me, child."

The older woman's voice and manner steadied the girl, and she answered more in her usual colorless
monotone, but still guarded so as not to awaken the other members of the household: "Hit seemed
like Mr. Burns ketchin' me, like he did, an' me a-seein' him with her in his arms, made me
plumb crazy-mad, an' I 'lowed I'd fix hit so's he couldn't never have her nohow, so I--I--done
told pap 'bout him bein' Brian Kent what had robbed that there bank, an' how there was er lot
of reward-money a-waitin' for anybody that'd tell on him."

Auntie Sue was too shocked to speak. Was it possible that, now, when the real Brian Kent was
so far removed from the wretched bank clerk; when his fine natural character and genius had
become so established, and his book was--No, no! It could not be! God could not let men be
so cruel as to send Auntie Sue's Brian Kent to prison because that other Brian Kent, tormented
by wrong environment, and driven by an evil combination of circumstances, had taken a few dollars
of the bank's money! And Betty Jo--No, no! Auntie Sue's heart cried out in protest. There must
be some way. She would find some way. The banker--Homer Ward! Auntie Sue's mind, alert and
vigorous as the mind of a woman of half her years, caught at the thought of her old friend
and pupil. She leaned forward in her chair over the girl who sat on the floor at her feet,
and her voice was strong and clear with the strength of the spirit which dominated her frail body.

"Judy, did you tell any one else besides your father?"

"There wasn't nobody else ter tell," came the answer. "An' pap, he 'lowed he'd kill me if I
said anythin' ter anybody 'fore he'd got the money. He aims ter git hit all for hisself."

"What will he do? Will he go to Sheriff Knox?"

"No, ma'm; pap, he 'lowed if he done that a-way, the Sheriff he'd take most of the money. Pap's
a-goin' right ter that there bank feller hisself."

"Yes, yes! Go on, Judy!"

"You see, ma'm, I done remembered the name of the bank an' where hit was an' Mr. Ward's name
an' all, on 'count of that there money letter what you done sent 'em an' us bein' so worried
'bout hit never gittin' there an' all that. An' pap, he knows er man over in Gardner what's
on the railroad, you see, what'll let him have money enough for the trip,--a licker-man, he
is,--an' pap's aimin' ter make hit over ter Gardner ter git the money in time ter ketch that
there early mornin' train. Hit's a right smart way over the mountains, but I reckon's how pap'll
make hit. Soon's pap left, I got ter thinkin' what I'd done, an' the more I studied 'bout hit,--'bout
Mr. Burns a-havin' ter go ter prison, an' 'bout you-all a-carin' for him the way you does,
an' 'bout how happy you was over his book, an'--an'--how good you'd been ter me,--the sorrier
I got, 'til I just couldn't stand a-thinkin' 'bout hit no longer; an'--an'--so I come fast
as I could ter tell you. I 'lowed you'd make out ter fix hit some way so--Mr. Burns won't have
ter go ter prison. Couldn't you-all send--send a telegraph ter the bank man, er somethin'?
I'd git it inter Thompsonville for you, ma'm; an' Mr. Burns, he needn't never know nothin'
'bout hit."

Auntie Sue was dressing when Judy finished speaking. With a physical strength that had its
source in her indomitable spirit, she moved about the room making the preparations necessary
to her plan, and as she worked she talked to the girl.

"No, Judy, a telegram won't do. I must go to Homer Ward myself. That morning train leaves Thompsonville
at six o'clock. You must slip out of the house, and harness 'Old Prince' to the buggy as fast
as you can. You will drive with me to Thompsonville, and bring 'Prince' back. You can turn
him loose when you get near home, and he will come the rest of the way alone. You must not
let Mr. Burns nor Betty Jo see you, because they mustn't know anything about what you have
done. Do you understand, child?"

"Yes, ma'm," said Judy, eagerly. She was on her feet now.

"You can go to the neighbors and find some place to stay until I return," continued Auntie Sue.

"You don't need ter worry none 'bout me," said Judy. "I kin take care of myself, I reckon.
But ain't you plumb seared ter go 'way on the cars alone an' you so old?"

"Old!" retorted Auntie Sue. "I have not felt so strong for twenty years. There is nothing for
me to fear. I will be in St. Louis to-morrow night, and in Chicago the next forenoon. I guess
I am not so helpless that I can't make a little journey like this. Homer Ward shall never send
my boy to prison,--never,--bank or no bank! Go on, now, and get 'Prince' and the buggy ready.
We must not miss that train." She pushed Judy from the room, and again cautioned her not to
awaken Brian or Betty Jo.

When she had completed her preparations for the trip, Auntie Sue wrote a short note to Betty
Jo, telling her that she had been called away suddenly, and that she would return in a few
days, and that she was obliged to borrow Betty Jo's pocket-book. Grave as she felt the situation
to be, Auntie Sue laughed to herself as she pictured the consternation of Betty Jo and Brian
in the morning.

Silently, the old lady stole into the girl's room to secure the money she needed and to leave
her letter. Then, as silently, she left the house, and found Judy, who was waiting with "Old
Prince" and the buggy, ready to start.

The station agent at Thompsonville was not a little astonished when Auntie Sue and Judy appeared,
and, with the easy familiarity of an old acquaintance greeted her with, "Howdy, Auntie Sue!
What in thunder are you doin' out this time of the day? No bad news, I hope?"

"Oh, no, Mr. Jackson," Auntie Sue answered easily. "I'm just going to Chicago for a little
visit with an old friend."

"Sort of a vacation, eh?" returned the man behind the window, as he made out her ticket. "Well,
you sure have earned one, Auntie Sue. It's gittin' to be vacation time now, too. Bunch of folks
come in yesterday to stay at the clubhouse for a spell. Pretty wild lot, I'd say,--wimmen as
well as the men. I reckon them clubhouse parties don't disturb you much, though, if you be
their nearest neighbor,--do they?"

"They never have yet, Mr. Jackson," she returned. "Their place is on the other side of the
river, and a mile above my house, you know. I see them in their boats on The Bend, though,
and once in a while they call on me. But the Elbow Rock rapids begin in front of my place,
and the clubhouse people don't usually come that far down the river."

She turned to Judy, and, with the girl, went out of the waiting room to the platform, where
she whispered: "You must start back right away, Judy. If your father is on the train, he might
see you."

"What if pap ketches sight of you-all?" Judy returned nervously.

"He will not be so apt to notice me as he would you," she returned, "even if he does catch
a glimpse of me. And it can't be helped if he does. I'll be in Chicago as quick as he will,
and I know I will see Mr. Ward first. Go on now, dear, and don't let Mr. Burns or Betty Jo
see you, and be a good girl. I feel sure that everything will be all right."

With a sudden awkward movement, poor Judy caught the old gentlewoman's hand and pressed it
to her lips; then, turning, ran toward the buggy.

When the train arrived, the station agent came to help Auntie Sue with her handbag aboard,
and she managed to keep her friend between herself and the coaches, in case Jap Taylor should
be looking from a window. As the conductor and the agent assisted her up the steps, the agent
said: "Mind you take good care of her, Bill. Finest old lady God-Almighty ever made! If you
was to let anything happen to her, you best never show yourself in this neighborhood again;
we'd lynch you, sure!"

The conductor found a good seat for his lovely old passenger, and made her as comfortable as
possible. As he punched her ticket, he said, with a genial smile, which was the voluntary tribute
paid to Auntie Sue by all men: "You are not much like the passengers I usually carry in this
part of the country, ma'm. They are mostly a rather rough-lookin' lot."

She smiled back at him, understanding perfectly his intended compliment. "They are good people,
though, sir,--most of them. Of course, there are some who are a little wild, sometimes, I expect."

The railroad man laughed again, shaking his head. "I should say so. You ought to see the specimen
I've got in the smoker. I picked him up back there at Gardner. Perhaps you have heard of him--Jap
Taylor. He is about the worst in the whole country, I reckon."

"I have heard of him," she returned. "I do hope he won't come into this coach."

"Oh, he won't start anything on my train," laughed the man in blue reassuringly. "He would
never come in here, anyhow. Them kind always stay in the smoker. Seems like they know where
they belong. He is half-scared to death himself, anyway; he is going to Chicago, too, and I'll
bet it's the first time in his life he has ever been farther from these hills than Springfield."

CHAPTER XX.

BRIAN AND BETTY JO KEEP HOUSE.

When Brian went to the barn the next morning he found "Old Prince" standing at the gate. While
he was still trying to find some plausible explanation of the strange incident, after unharnessing
the horse and giving him his morning feed, an excited call from Betty Jo drew his attention.
With an answering shout, he started for the house. The excited girl met him halfway, and gave
him Auntie Sue's note.

When Brian had read the brief and wholly inadequate message, they stood looking at each other,
too mystified for speech. Brian read the note, again, aloud, speaking every word with slow
distinctness. "Well, I'll be hanged!" he ejaculated, at the close of the remarkable communication,
staring at Betty Jo.

"It wouldn't in the least surprise me if we were both hanged before night," returned Betty
Jo. "After this from Auntie Sue, I am prepared for anything. What on earth DO you suppose has
happened?"

Brian shook his head: "It is too much for me!"

Together they went to the house, and the place seemed strangely deserted. Every possible explanation
that suggested itself, they discussed and rejected.

"One thing we can depend upon," said Brian, at last, when they had exhausted the resources
of their combined imaginations: "Auntie Sue knows exactly what she is doing, and she is doing
exactly the right thing. I suppose we will know all about it when she returns."

Betty Jo looked again at the note: "'I will be back in a few days,'" she read slowly. "'Be
good children, and take care of things.'"

Again, they regarded each other wonderingly.

Then Betty Jo broke the silence with an odd little laugh: "I feel like we were cast away on
some desert island, don't you?"

"Something like that," Brian returned. Then, to relieve the strain of the situation, he added:
"I suppose 'Bess' will have to be milked and the chores finished just the same."

"And I'll get breakfast for us," agreed Betty Jo, as he started back to the barn.

In the safe seclusion of the stable, with no one but "Old Prince" and "Bess" to witness his
agitation, Brian endeavored to bring his confused and unruly thoughts under some sort of control.

"Several days; several days." The words repeated themselves with annoying persistency. And
they--Betty Jo and he, Brian Kent--were to "take care of things";--they were to keep house
together;--they were to live together, alone,--in the log house by the river,--alone. She was
even then preparing their breakfast. They would sit down at the table alone. And there would
be dinner and supper; and the evening,--just for them. He would work about the place. She would
attend to her household duties. He would go to his meals, and she would be there expecting
him,--waiting for him. And when the tasks of the day were finished, they would sit on the porch
to watch the coming of the night,--Betty Jo and he, Brian Kent--"What in God's name," the man
demanded of the indifferent "Bess," did Auntie Sue mean by placing him in such a situation?
Did she think him more than human?

It had not been easy for Brian to maintain that barrier between himself and Betty Jo, even
with the constant help of Auntie Sue's presence. Many, many times he had barely saved himself
from declaring his love; and, now, he was asked to live with her in the most intimate companionship
possible.

For the only time in his life Brian Kent was almost angry at Auntie Sue. "By all that was consistent,
and reasonable, and merciful, and safe," he told himself, "if it was absolutely necessary for
the dear old lady to disappear so mysteriously, why had she not taken Betty Jo along?"

In the meantime, while Brian was confiding his grievances to his four-footed companions in
the barn, Betty Jo was expressing herself in the kitchen.

"Betty Jo," she began, as she raked the ashes from the stove preparatory to building the fire,
"it appears to me that you have some serious considering to do, and"--with a glance toward
the barn, as she went out to empty the ash-pan--"you must do it quickly before that man comes
for his breakfast. You were very right, last night, in your decision, to go away. It is exactly
what you should have done. I am more than ever convinced of that, this morning. But you can't
go now. Even if Auntie Sue had not taken your pocket-book and every penny in it, you couldn't
run away with Auntie Sue herself gone. If she hadn't wanted you to stay right here for some
very serious reason, Betty Jo, she would have taken you with her last night. Auntie Sue very
pointedly and definitely expects you to be here when she returns. And she will be away several
days,--several days, Betty Jo." She repeated the words in a whisper. "And during those several
days, you are to keep house for the man you love;--the man who loves you;--the man whom you
must keep from telling you his love,--no matter how your heart pleads for him to tell you,
you must not permit him to speak. He will be coming in to breakfast in a few minutes, and you
will sit down at the table with him,--across the table from him,--facing him,--Betty Jo,--just
like--"

She looked in the little mirror that hung beside the kitchen window, and, with dismay, saw
her face flushed with color that was not caused by the heat of the stove. "And you will be
forced to look at him across the table, and he will look at you,--and--and you must not,--"
she stamped her foot,--"you dare not look like THAT, Betty Jo.

"And then there will be the dinner that you will cook for him, and the supper; and the evenings
on the porch. O Lord! Betty Jo, what ever will you do? How will you ever save the fineness
of your love? If you were afraid to trust yourself with the help of Auntie Sue's presence,
what in the world can you do without her--and you actually keeping house with him? Oh, Auntie
Sue! Auntie Sue!" she groaned, "you are the dearest woman in the world and the best and wisest,
but you have blundered terribly this time! Why DID you do such a thing! It is not fair to him!
It is not fair to me! It is not fair to our love!

"All of which,"--the practical Betty Jo declared a moment later, wiping her eyes on the corner
of her apron, and going into the other room to set the table for breakfast,--"all of which,
Betty Jo, does not in the least help matters, and only makes you more nervous and upset than
you are.

"One thing is certain sure," she continued, while her hands were busy with the dishes and the
table preparations: "If we can endure this test, we need never, never, never fear that anything
nor anybody can ever, ever make us doubt the genuineness of our love. Auntie Sue has certainly
arranged it most beautifully for Brian Kent and Betty Jo Williams to become thoroughly acquainted."

Betty Jo suddenly paused in her work, and stood very still: "I wonder," she said slowly,--"can
it be,--is it possible,--what if Auntie Sue has brought about this situation for that very reason?"

"Breakfast ready?" cried Brian at the kitchen-door, and his voice was so hearty and natural
that the girl answered as naturally: "It will be as soon as you are ready for it. I forget,
do you like your eggs three minutes or four?"

They really managed that breakfast very well, even if they did sit opposite each other so that
each was forced to look straight across the table into the face of the other. Or, perhaps,
it was because they looked at each other so straight and square and frankly honest that the
breakfast went so well.

And because the breakfast went so well, they managed the dinner and the supper also.

"I have been thinking," said Brian at the close of their evening meal, looking straight into
the gray eyes over the table, "perhaps it might be better for you to stay at neighbor Tom's
until Auntie Sue returns. I'll hitch up 'Old Prince' and drive you over, if you say. Or, we
might find some neighbor woman to come here to live with us, if you prefer."

"You don't like my housekeeping, then?" asked Betty Jo.

"Like it!" exclaimed Brian; and the tone of his voice approached the danger-point.

Betty Jo said quickly: "I'll tell you exactly what I think, Mr. Burns: Auntie Sue said we were
to be good children, and take care of things until she returned. She did not say for me to
shirk my part by going to neighbor Tom's or by having any one come here. Don't you think we
can do exactly what Auntie Sue said?"

"Yes," returned Brian, heartily; "I am sure we can. And do you know,--come to think about it,--I
believe the dear old lady would be disappointed in us both if we dodged our--well,--" he finished
with emphasis,--"our responsibilities."

And after that, somehow, the evening on the porch went as well as the breakfast and dinner
and supper had gone.

It was the second day of their housekeeping that Betty Jo noticed smoke coming from the stone
chimney of the clubhouse up the river. She reported her observation to Brian when he came in
from his work for dinner. During the afternoon, they both saw boats on the quiet waters of
The Bend, and at supper told each other what they had seen. And in the evening they together
watched the twinkling lights of the clubhouse windows, and once they heard voices and laughter
from somewhere on the river as though a boating party were making merry.

Two days later, Brian and Betty Jo were just finishing dinner when a step sounded on the porch,
and a man appeared in the open doorway.

The stranger was dressed in the weird and flashy costume considered by his class to be the
proper thing for an outing in the country, and his face betrayed the sad fact that, while he
was mentally, spiritually, and physically greatly in need of a change from the unclean atmosphere
that had made him what he was, he was incapable of benefiting by more wholesome conditions
of living. He was, in fact, a perfect specimen of that type of clubman who, in order to enjoy
fully the beautiful life of God's unspoiled world, must needs take with him all of the sordid
and vicious life of that world wherein he is most at home.

With no word of greeting, he said, with that superior air which so many city folk assume when
addressing those who live in the country: "Have you people any fresh vegetables or eggs to sell?"

Brian and Betty Jo arose, and Brian, stepping forward, said, with a smile: "No, we have nothing
to sell here; but I think our neighbor, Mr. Warden, just over the hill, would be glad to supply
you. Won't you come in?"

The man stared at Brian, turned an appraising eye on Betty Jo; then looked curiously about
the room.

"I beg your pardon," he said, removing his cap, "I thought, when I spoke, that you were natives.
My name is Green,--Harry Green. There is a party of us stopping at the clubhouse, up the river,
there;--just out for a bit of a good time, you know. We are from St. Louis,--first time any
of us were ever in the Ozarks,--friends of mine own the clubhouse."

"My name is Burns," returned Brian. "We noticed your boats on the river. You are enjoying your
outing, are you?"

Again the man looked curiously from Brian to Betty Jo. "Oh, yes; we can stand it for awhile,"
he answered. "We're a pretty jolly bunch, you see;--know how to keep things going. It would
kill me if I had to live here in this lonesome hole very long, though. Don't you find it rather
slow, Mrs. Burns?"

Poor Betty Jo's face turned fairly crimson. She could neither answer the stranger nor meet
his gaze, but stood with downcast eyes;--then looked at Brian appealingly.

But Brian was as embarrassed as Betty Jo; while the stranger, as he regarded them, smiled with
an expression of insolent understanding.

"I guess I have made another mistake," he said, with a meaning laugh.

"You have," returned Brian, sharply, stepping forward as he spoke; for the man's manner was
unmistakable. "Be careful, sir, that you do not make another."

Mr. Green spoke quickly, with an airy wave of his hand: "No offense; no offense, I assure you."
Then as he moved toward the door, he added, still with thinly veiled insolence: "I beg your
pardon for intruding. I understand, perfectly. Good-afternoon, Mr. Burns! Good-afternoon, miss!"

Brian followed him out to the porch; and the caller, as he went down the steps, turned back
with another understanding laugh: "I say, Burns, you are a lucky devil. Don't worry about me,
old man. I envy you, by Jove! Charming little nest. Come over to the club some evening. Bring
the little girl along, and help us to have a good time. So-long!"

Mr. Harry Green probably never knew how narrowly he escaped being manhandled by the enraged
but helpless Brian.

Brian remained on the porch until he saw the man, in his boat, leave the eddy at the foot of
the garden and row away up the river.

In the house, again, the two faced each other in dismay.

Betty Jo was first to recover: "I am sure that it is quite time for Auntie Sue to come home
and take charge of her own household again. Don't you think so, Mr. Burns?"

And Brian Kent most heartily agreed.

CHAPTER XXI.

THE WOMAN AT THE WINDOW.

The members of the clubhouse party were amusing themselves that afternoon in the various ways
peculiar to their kind.

At one end of the wide veranda overlooking the river a group sat at a card table. At the other
end of the roomy lounging place, men and women, lying at careless ease in steamer-chairs and
hammocks, were smoking and chatting about such things as are of interest only to that strange
class who are educated to make idleness the chief aim and end of their existence. On the broad
steps leading down to the tree-shaded lawn, which sloped gently to the boat landing at the
river's edge, still other members of the company were scattered in characteristic attitudes.
Across the river, in the shade of the cottonwoods that overhang the bank, a man and a woman
in a boat were ostensibly fishing. In a hammock strung between two trees, a little way from
the veranda, lay a woman, reading.

Now and then a burst of shrill laughter broke the quiet of the surrounding forest. A man on
the steps called a loud suggestive jest to the pair in the boat, and the woman waved her handkerchief
in answer. The card-players argued and laughed over a point in their game. Some one shouted
into the house for Jim, and a negro man in white jacket appeared. When the people on the veranda
had expressed their individual tastes, the one who had summoned the servant called to the woman
in the hammock under the tree, "What is yours, Martha?"

Without looking up from her book, the woman waved her hand, and answered, "I am not drinking
this time. Thanks."

A chorus of derisive shouts and laughter came from the veranda. But the woman went on reading.
"Oh, let her alone!" protested some one, good-naturedly. "She was going a little strong, last
night. She'll be all right by and by, when she gets started again."

The negro, Jim, had returned with his loaded tray, and was passing among the members of the
company with his assortment of glasses, when some one called attention to Harry Green, who
was just pulling his boat up to the landing after his visit to the little log house down the river.

A boisterous chorus greeted the boatman: "Hello, Harry! Did you find anything? You're just
in time. What'll you have?"

With a wave of greeting, the man fastened his boat to the landing, and started up the slope.

"He'll have a Scotch, of course!" said some one. "Did anybody ever know him to take anything
else? Go and get it, Jim. He'll be nearly dead for a drink after rowing all that distance."

The woman in the hammock lowered her book, and lay watching the man as he came up the path
toward the steps.

Harry Green, who, apparently, was a person of importance among them, seated himself in an easy
chair on the veranda, and accepted the glass proffered by Jim.

"Did you find any eggs, Harry?" demanded one. The man first refreshed himself with a long drink;
then looked around with a grin of amused appreciation: "I didn't get any eggs," he said; "but
I found the nest all right."

A shout of laughter greeted the reply.

"What sort of nest, Harry? Duck? Turkey? Hen? Dove? Or rooster?" came from different members
of the chorus.

Raising his glass as though offering a toast, he answered: "Love! my children; love!"

A yell of delight came from the company, accompanied by a volley of: "A love-nest! Well, what
do you know about that! Good boy, Harry! Takes Harry to find a love-nest! He's the boy to send
for eggs! I should say, yes! Martha will like that! Oh, won't she!"

This last remark turned their attention toward the woman in the hammock, and they called to
her: "Martha! Oh, Martha! Come here! You better look after Harry! Harry has found a love-nest!
Told you something would happen if you let him go away alone!"

Putting aside her book, the woman came to join the company on the veranda.

She was rather a handsome woman, but with a suggestion of coarseness in form and features,
though her face, in spite of its too-evident signs of dissipation, was not a bad face.

Seating herself on the top step, with her back against the post in an attitude of careless
abandonment, she looked up at the negro who stood grinning in the doorway. "Bring me a highball,
Jim: you know my kind." Then to the company: "Somebody give me a cigarette."

Harry tossed a silver case in her lap. Another man, who sat near, leaned over her with a lighted
match.

Expelling a generous cloud of smoke from her shapely lips, she demanded: "What is this you
are all shouting about Harry having another love-nest?"

During the answering chorus of boisterous laughter and jesting remarks, she drank the liquor
which the negro brought.

Then Harry, pointing out Auntie Sue's house, which was easily visible from where they sat,
related his experience. And among the many conjectures, and questions, and comments offered,
no one suggested even that the man and the woman living in that little log house by the river
might be entirely innocent of the implied charge. For those who are themselves guilty, to assume
the guilt of others is very natural and altogether human.

In the moment's quiet which followed the arrival of a fresh supply of drinks, the woman called
Martha said: "But what is the man like, Harry? You have enthused quite enough about the girl.
Suppose you tell us about the man in the case."

Harry gave a very good description of Brian Kent.

"Oh, damn!" suddenly cried Martha, shaking her skirt vigorously. She had spilled some of the
liquor from her glass.

A woman on the outer edge of the circle whispered to her nearest neighbor, and a hush fell
over the group.

"Well," said Martha, drinking the liquor remaining in her glass, "why the devil don't we find
out who they are, if we are so curious?"

"Find out! How? We'll find out a lot! What would you do,--ask them their names and where they
are from?" came from the company.

"It is easy enough," retorted Martha. "There is that native girl that Molly picked up the day
we landed here to help her in the kitchen. She must belong in this neighborhood somewhere.
I'll bet she can tell us something. What is her name?"

"Judy,--Judy Taylor. Great idea! Good! Send her out here, Jim," responded the others.

When the deformed mountain girl appeared before them, she looked from face to face with such
a frightened and excited expression on her sallow, old-young features, and such a wild light
in her black beady eyes, that they regarded her with silent interest.

Judy spoke first, and her shrill monotone emphasized her excited state of mind: "That there
nigger said as how Missus Kent was a-wantin' ter see me. Be ary one of youuns sure 'nough Missus
Kent?"

The group drew apart a little, and every face was turned from Judy to the woman sitting on
the top step of the veranda with her back against the post.

Judy went slowly toward the woman, her beady eyes fixed and staring as though at some ghostly
vision. The woman rose to her feet as Judy paused before her.

"Be you-all Brian Kent's woman?" demanded Judy.

The excited exclamation from the company and the manner of the woman suddenly aroused the mountain
girl to a realization of what she had done in speaking Brian Kent's name. With an expression
of frightened dismay, she turned to escape; but the group of intensely interested spectators
drew closer. Every one waited for Martha to speak.

"Yes," she said, slowly, watching the mountain girl; "I am Mrs. Brian Kent. Do you know my
husband?"

Judy's black beady eyes shifted slyly from one face to another, and her twisted body moved
uneasily.

"No, ma'm; I ain't a-sayin' I knows him exactly. I done heard tell 'bout him nigh 'bout a year
ago, when there was some men from the city come through here a-huntin' him. Everybody 'lows
as how he was drowned at Elbow Rock."

"The body was never found, though," murmured one of the men in the group.

"Who lives in that little log house over there, Judy?" Harry Green asked suddenly, pointing.

"There? Oh, that there's Auntie Sue's place. I 'lowed everybody knowed that," returned the girl.

"Who is Auntie Sue?" came the next question.

One of the women answered, before Judy could speak: "Auntie Sue is that old-maid school-teacher
they told us about. Don't you remember, Harry?"

"Is Auntie Sue at home now, girl?" asked Mrs. Kent.

Judy's gaze was fixed on the ground as she replied: "I don't know, ma'm. I ain't got no truck
with anybody on yon side the river."

"Is there any one living with Auntie Sue?" asked some one; and in the same breath from another
came the question, "Who is Mr. Burns?"

Judy jerked her twisted shoulders and threw up her head with an impatient defiance, as she
returned shrilly: "I'm a-tellin' youuns I don't know nothin' 'bout nobody. Hit ain't no sort
er use for youuns ter pester me. I don't know nothin' 'bout hit, an' I wouldn't tell youuns
nothin' if I did."

And with this, the mountain girl escaped into the house.

While her friends on the veranda were looking at each other in questioning silence, Mrs. Kent,
without a word, turned and walked away into the woods.

As she disappeared among the trees, one of the men said, in a low tone: "You better go after
her, Harry. She is on, all right, that it's Brian Kent. She never did believe that story about
his death, you know. There is no knowing what she'll do when she gets to thinking it all over."

"It is a darned shame," exclaimed one of the women, "to have our party spoiled like this!"

"Spoiled nothing," answered another. "Martha is too good a sport to spoil anything. Go on,
Harry. Cheer her up. Bring her back here. We'll all help get her good and drunk to-night, and
she'll be all right."

There was a laugh at this, and some one said: "A little something wouldn't hurt any of us just
now, I'm thinking. Here, Jim!"

Harry Green found Mrs. Kent sitting on the riverbank some distance above the boat landing.

She looked up at the sound of his approach, but did not speak. Dropping down beside her, the
man said: "I'm damned sorry about this, Martha. I never dreamed I was starting anything, or
I would have kept my mouth shut."

"It is Brian, all right, Harry," she answered, slowly. "It is funny, but he has been on my
mind all day. I never dreamed that it was this part of the country where he was supposed to
have been drowned, or I wouldn't have come here."

"Well, what does it matter, anyway?" returned the man. "I don't see that it can make any difference.
We don't need to go down there where he is, and it is damned certain that they won't call on us."

Looking out over the river, the woman spoke as if thinking aloud: "This is just the sort of
place he would love, Harry--the river and hills and woods. He never cared for the city--always
wanted to get away into the country somewhere. Tell me, what is she really like? Does she look
like--like--well,--like any of our crowd?"

One by one, the man picked a number of pebbles from among the dead leaves and the short grass
within reach of his hand, as he answered: "Oh, I was just kidding when I raved about her to
the bunch." One by one, he flipped the bits of stone into the water. "She really doesn't amount
to much. Honestly, I hardly noticed her."

The woman continued speaking as though thinking her thoughts aloud: "Brian was a good man,
Harry. That bank affair was really my fault. He never would have done such a thing if I hadn't
devilled him all the time for more money, and made such a fuss about his wasting so much time
in his everlasting writing. I'd hate to have him caught and sent to the 'pen' now."

"You're a good sport, Martha," he returned heartily. "I know just how you feel about it. And
I can promise you that there is not one of our crowd that will ever whisper a thing. They are
not that kind, and you know how they all like you. Come, dear. Don't bother your head about
it any more. I don't like to see you like this. Let us go up to the house, and show them how
game you are,--shall we?"

He put his arm about her, but the woman gently pushed him away. "Don't do that, now, Harry.
Let me think."

"That is just what you must not do," he retorted, with a laugh. "Thinking can't help matters.
Come, let us go get a drink. That is what you need."

She looked at him some time before she answered; then, with a quick movement, she sprang to
her feet:

"All right! You're on!" she cried, with a reckless laugh. "But you'll go some if you keep up
with me to-night."

And so, that evening, while Brian Kent and Betty Jo from the porch of the little log house
by the river watched the twinkling lights of the clubhouse windows, the party with mad merriment
tried to help a woman to forget.

But save for the unnatural brightness of her eyes and the heightened color in her face, drink
seemed to have little effect on Martha Kent that night. When at a late hour the other members
of the wild company, in various flushed and dishevelled stages of intoxication, finally retired
to their rooms, Martha, in her apartment, seated herself at the window to look away over the
calm waters of The Bend to a single light that showed against the dark mountainside. The woman
did not know that the light she saw was in Brian Kent's room.

Long after Betty Jo had said good-night, Brian walked the floor in uneasy wakefulness. The
meeting with the man Green and his too-evident thoughts as to the relations of the man and
woman who were living together in the log house by the river filled Brian with alarm; while
the very presence of the man from the city awoke old apprehensions that in his months of undisturbed
quiet in Auntie Sue's backwoods home had almost ceased to be. Through Auntie Sue's teaching
and influence; his work on his book; the growing companionship of Betty Jo and their love,
Brian had almost ceased to think of that absconding bank clerk who had so recklessly launched
himself on a voyage to the unknown in the darkness of that dreadful night. But, now, it all
came back to him with menacing strength.

The man, Green, would talk to his companions of his visit to the log house that afternoon.
He would tell what he had discovered. Curiosity would lead others of the clubhouse party to
call. Some one might remember the story of the bank clerk, who was supposed to have lost his
life in that neighborhood, but whose body was never found. There might even be one in the party
who knew the former clerk. Through them the story would go back to the outside world. There
would be investigations by those whose business it was never to forget a criminal who had escaped
the law.

Brian felt his Re-Creation to be fully established; but what if his identity should be discovered
before the restitution he would make should be also accomplished? And always, as he paced to
and fro in his little room in the log house, there was, like a deep undercurrent in the flow
of his troubled thought, his love for Betty Jo.

It is little wonder that, to Brian Kent, that night, the voices of the river were filled with
fearful doubt and sullen, dreadful threatenings.

And what of the woman who watched the tiny spot of light that marked the window of the room
where the re-created Brian Kent kept his lonely vigil? Did she, too, hear the voices of the
river? Did she feel the presence of that stream which poured its dark flood so mysteriously
through the night between herself and the man yonder?

Away back, somewhere in the past, the currents of their lives in the onward flow of the river
had drawn together. For a period of time, their life-currents had mingled, and, with the stream,
had swept onward as one. Other influences--swirls and eddies and counter-currents of other
lives--had touched and intermingled until the current that was the man and the current that
was the woman had drawn apart. For months, they had not touched; and, now, they were drawing
nearer to each other again. Would they touch? Would they again mingle and become one? What
was this mysterious, unseen, unknown, but always-felt, power of the river that sets the ways
of its countless currents as it sweeps ever onward in its unceasing flow?

The door of her room opened. Harry Green entered as one assured of a welcome. The woman at
the window turned her head, but did not move. Going to her, the man, with an endearing word,
offered a caress; but she put him aside. "Please, Harry,--please let me be alone to-night?"

"Why, Martha, dear! What is wrong?" he protested, again attempting to draw her to him.

Resisting more vigorously, she answered: "Everything is wrong! You are wrong! I am wrong! All
life is wrong! Can't you understand? Please leave me."

The man drew back, and spoke roughly in a tone of disgust: "Hell! I believe you love that bank
clerk as much as you ever did!"

"Well, and suppose that were true, Harry?" she answered, wearily. "Suppose it were true,--that
I did still love my husband? Could that make any difference now? Can anything ever make any
difference now? You will tire of me before long, just as you have grown tired of the others
who were before me. Don't you suppose I know? You and our friends have taught me many things,
Harry. I know, now, that Brian's dreams were right. That his dreams could never be realized,
does not make them foolish nor wrong. His dreams that seemed so foolish--such impossible ideals--were
more real, after all, than this life that we think so real. WE are the dreamers,--we and our
kind,--and our awakening is as sure to come as that river out there is sure of reaching the sea."

The man laughed harshly: "You are quite poetical, to-night. I believe I like you better, though,
when you talk sense."

"I am sorry, Harry," she returned. "Please don't be cross with me! Go now,--please go!"

And something forced the man to silence. Slowly, he left the room. The woman locked the door.
Returning to the window, she fell on her knees, and stretched her hands imploringly toward
the tiny spot of light that still shone against the dark shadow of the mountain-side.

Between the mighty walls of tree-clad hills that lifted their solemn crests into the midnight
sky, the dark river poured the sombre strength of its innumerable currents,--terrible in its
awful power; dreadful, in its mysterious and unseen forces; irresistible in its ceaseless,
onward rush to the sea of its final and infinite purpose!

And here and there on the restless, ever-moving surface of the shadowy, never-ending flood
twinkled the reflection of a star.

CHAPTER XXII.

AT THE EMPIRE CONSOLIDATED SAVINGS BANK.

The President of the Empire Consolidated Savings Bank looked up from the papers on his desk
as his secretary entered from the adjoining room and stood before him.

"Well, George?"

The secretary smiled as he spoke: "Mr. Ward, there is an old lady out here who insists that
you will see her. The boys passed her on to me, because,--well, she is not the kind of woman
that can be refused. She has no card, but her name is Wakefield. She--"

The dignified President of the Empire Consolidated Savings Bank electrified his secretary by
springing from his chair like a schoolboy from his seat at the tap of the teacher's dismissing
bell. "Auntie Sue! I should say she couldn't be refused! Where is she?" And before the secretary
could collect his startled thoughts to answer, Homer T. Ward was out of the room.

When the smiling secretary, the stenographers, and other attending employees had witnessed
a meeting between their dignified chief and the lovely old lady, which strengthened their conviction
that the great financier was genuinely human, President Ward and Auntie Sue disappeared into
the private office.

"George," said Mr. Ward, as he closed the door of that sacred inner sanctuary of the Empire
Consolidated Savings Bank, "remember I am not in to any one;--from the Secretary of the Treasury
to the Sheriff, I am not in."

"I understand, sir," returned the still smiling George. And from that moment until Homer T.
Ward should open the door, nothing short of a regiment could have interrupted the interview
between Auntie Sue and her old pupil.

Placing the dear old lady tenderly in a deep, leather-upholstered chair, Mr. Ward stood before
her as though trying to convince himself that she was real; while his teacher of those long-ago,
boyhood days gazed smilingly up at him.

"What in the name of all that is unexpected are you doing here, Auntie Sue?" he demanded; "and
why is not Betty Jo with you? Isn't the girl ever coming home? There is nothing the matter
with her, is there? Of course not, or you would have wired me."

It was not at all like the bank president to ask so many questions all at once.

Auntie Sue looked around the private office curiously, then smilingly back to the face of the
financier.

"Do you know, Homer," she said with her chuckling little laugh, "I--I--am almost afraid of
you in here. Everything is so grand and rich-looking; and there were so many men out there
who tried to tell me you would not see me. I--I am glad I didn't know it would be like this,
or I fear I never could have found the courage to come."

Homer T. Ward laughed, and then--rather full-waisted as he was--went down on one knee at the
arm of her chair so as to bring his face level with her eyes.

"Look at me, Auntie Sue," he said; "look straight through me, just as you used to do years
and years ago, and tell me what you see."

And the dear old lady, with one thin soft hand on his heavy shoulder, answered, as she looked:
"Why, I see a rather naughty boy, whom I ought to spank for throwing spitballs at the old schoolroom
ceiling," she retorted. "And I am not a bit afraid to do it either. So sit right over there,
sir, and listen to me."

They laughed together then; and if Auntie Sue wiped her eyes as the schoolboy obediently took
his seat in the big chair at the banker's desk, Homer T. Ward's eyes were not without a suspicious
moisture.

"Tell me about Betty Jo first," the man insisted. "You know, Auntie Sue, the girl grows dearer
to me every year."

"Betty Jo is that kind of a girl, Homer," Auntie Sue answered.

"I suppose it is because she is all I have to love," he said, "but, you know, ever since Sister
Grace died and left the fatherless little kid to me, it seems like all my plans have centered
around her; and now that she has finished her school; has travelled abroad, and gone through
with that business-college course, I am beginning to feel like we should sort of settle down
together. I am glad for her to be with you this summer, though, for the finishing touches;
and when she comes home to stay, you are coming with her."

Auntie Sue shook her head, smiling: "Now, Homer, you know that is settled: I will never leave
my little log house by the river until I have watched the last sunset. You know, my dear boy,
that I would be miserable in the city."

It was an old point often argued by them, and the man dismissed it, now, with a brief: "We'll
see about that when the time comes. But, why didn't you bring Betty Jo with you?"

"Because," Auntie Sue answered, "I came away hurriedly, on a very important trip, for only
a day, and it is necessary for her to stay and keep house while I am gone. The child must learn
to cook, Homer, even if she is to inherit all your money."

"I know," answered the banker;--"the same as you make me work when I visit you. But your coming
to me sounds rather serious, Auntie Sue. What is your trouble?"

The dear old lady laughed, nervously; for, to tell the truth, she did not quite know how she
was going to manage to present Brian Kent's case to Homer T. Ward without presenting more than
she was at this time ready to reveal.

"Why, you see, Homer," she began, "it is not really my trouble as much as it is yours, and
it is not yours as much as it is--"

"Betty Jo's?" he asked quickly, when she hesitated.

"No! no!" she cried. "The child doesn't even know why I am here. Just try to forget her for
a few minutes, Homer."

"All right," he said; "but you had me worried for a minute."

Auntie Sue might have answered that she was somewhat worried herself; but, instead, she plunged
with desperate courage: "I came to see you about Brian Kent, Homer."

It is not enough to say that the President of the Empire Consolidated Savings Bank was astonished.
"Brian Kent?" he said at last. "Why, Auntie Sue, I wrote you nearly a year ago that Brian Kent
was dead."

"Yes, I know; but he was not--that is, he is not. But the Brian Kent your detectives were hunting
was--I mean--is."

Homer T. Ward looked at his old teacher as though he feared she had suddenly lost her mind.

"It is like this, Homer," Auntie Sue explained: "A few days after your detective, Mr. Ross,
called on me, this stranger appeared in the neighborhood. No one dreamed that he was Brian
Kent, because, you see, he was not a bit like the description."

"Full beard, I suppose?" commented the banker, grimly.

"Yes: and every other way," continued Auntie Sue. "And he has been working so hard all winter;
and everybody in the country respects and loves him so; and he is one of the best and truest
men I ever knew; and he is planning and working to pay back every cent he took; and I cannot--I
will not--let you send him to prison now."

The lovely old eyes were fixed on the banker's face with sweet anxiety.

Homer T. Ward was puzzled. Strange human problems are often presented to men in his position;
but, certainly, this was the strangest;--his old teacher pleading for his absconding clerk
who was supposed to be dead.

At last he said, with gentle kindness: "But, why did you come to tell me about him, Auntie
Sue? He is safe enough if no one knows who he is."

"That is it!" she cried. "Some one found out about him, and is coming here to tell you, for
the reward."

The banker whistled softly. "And you--you--grabbed a train, and beat 'em to it!" he exclaimed.
"Well, if that doesn't--"

Auntie Sue clasped her thin hands to her breast, and her sweet voice trembled with anxious
fear: "You won't send that poor boy to prison, now, will you, Homer? It--it--would kill me
if such a terrible thing were to happen now. Won't you let him go free, so that he can do his
work,--won't you, Homer? I--I--" The strain of her anxiety was almost too much for the dear
old gentlewoman's physical strength, and as her voice failed, the tears streamed down the soft
cheeks unheeded.

In an instant the bank president was again on his knees beside her chair.

"Don't, Auntie Sue: don't, dear! Why, you know I would do anything in the world you asked,
even if I wanted to send the fellow up; but I don't. I wouldn't touch him for the world. It
is a thousand times better to let him go if he is proving himself an honest man. Please, dear,
don't feel so. Why, I will be glad to let him off. I'll help him, Auntie Sue. I--I--am as glad
as you are that we didn't get him. Please don't feel so about it. There, there,--it is all
right, now."

So he comforted and reassured her until she was able to smile through her tears. "I knew I
could depend on you, Homer."

A few minutes later, she said: "And what about that man who is coming to claim the reward, Homer?"

"Never you mind him!" cried the banker; "I'll fix that. But, tell me, Auntie Sue, where is
young Kent now?"

"He is working in the neighborhood," she returned.

He looked at her shrewdly. "You have seen a lot of him, have you?"

"I have seen him occasionally," she answered. Homer T. Ward nodded his head, as if well pleased
with himself. "You don't need to tell me any more. I understand, now, exactly. It is very clear
what has reformed Brian Kent; you have been up to your old tricks. It is a wonder you haven't
taken him into your house to live with you,--to save him from associating with bad people."

He laughed, and when Auntie Sue only smiled, as though humoring him in his little joke, he
added: "By the way, has Betty Jo seen this latest patient of yours? What does she think of
his chances for complete recovery?"

"Yes," Auntie Sue returned, calmly; "Betty Jo has seen him. But, really, Homer, I have never
asked her what she thought of him."

"Do you know, Auntie Sue," said the banker, reflectively, "I never did believe that Brian Kent
was a criminal at heart."

"I know he is not," she returned stoutly. "But, tell me, Homer, how did it ever happen?"

"Well, you see," he answered, "young Kent had a wife who couldn't somehow seem to fit into
his life. Ross never went into the details with me, fully, because that, of course, had no
real bearing on the fact that he stole the money from the bank. But it seems that the youngster
was rather ambitious,--studied a lot outside of business hours and that sort of thing. I know
he made his own way through business college before he came to us. The wife didn't receive
the attention she thought she should have, I suppose. Perhaps she was right at that. Anyway,
she wanted a good time;--wanted him to take her out more, instead of spending his spare time
digging away at his books. And so it went the usual way,--she found other company. Rather a
gay set, I fancy; at least it led to her needing more money than he was earning, and so he
helped out his salary, thinking to pay it back before he was caught, I suppose. Then the crash
came,--some other man, you know,--and Brian skipped, which, of course, put us next to his stealing.
I don't know what has become of the woman. The last Ross knew of her she was living in St.
Louis, and running with a pretty wild bunch,--glad to get rid of Brian, I expect. She couldn't
have really cared so very much for him.

"Do you know, Auntie Sue, I have seen so many cases like this one. I have been glad, many times,
that I never married. And then, again, sometimes, I have seen homes that have made me sorry
I never took the chance. I am glad you saved the boy, Auntie Sue: I am mighty glad."

"You have made me very happy, Homer," Auntie Sue returned. "But are you sure you can fix it
about that reward? The man who is coming to claim it will make trouble, won't he, if he is
not paid, somehow?"

"Yes, I expect he would," returned the president, thoughtfully. "And my directors might have
something to say. And there are the Burns people and the Bankers' Association and all. Hum-m-m!"

Homer T. Ward considered the matter a few moments, then he laughed. "I'll tell you what we
will do, Auntie Sue; we will let Brian Kent pay the reward himself. That would be fair, wouldn't
it?"

Auntie Sue was sure that Brian would agree that it was a fair enough arrangement; but she did
not see how it was to be managed.

Then her old pupil explained that he would pay the reward-money to the man who was coming to
claim it, and thus satisfy him, and that the bank would hold the amount as a part of the debt
which Brian was expected to pay.

Auntie Sue never knew that President Ward himself paid to the bank the full amount of the money
stolen by Brian Kent in addition to the reward-money which he personally paid to Jap Taylor,
in order to quiet him, and thus saved Brian from the publicity that surely would have followed
any other course.

It should also be said here that Judy's father never again appeared in the Ozarks; at least,
not in the Elbow Rock neighborhood. It might be that Jap Taylor was shrewd enough to know that
his reputation would not permit him to show any considerable sum of money, where he was known,
without starting an investigation; and for men of his type investigations are never to be desired.

Or it is not unlikely that the combination of money and the city proved the undoing of the
moonshiner, and that he came to his legitimate and logical end among the dives and haunts of
his kind, to which he would surely gravitate.

CHAPTER XXIII.

IN THE ELBOW ROCK RAPIDS.

The day following that night of Brian Kent's uneasy wakefulness was a hard day for the man
and the woman in the little log house by the river.

For Brian, the morning dawned with a sense of impending disaster. He left his room while the
sky was still gray behind the eastern mountains, and the mist that veiled the brightness of
the hills seemed to hide in its ghostly depths legions of shadowy spirits that from his past
had assembled to haunt him. The sombre aisles and caverns of the dimly lighted forest were
peopled with shadowy memories of that life which he had hoped would never again for him awake.
And the river swept through its gray world to the crashing turmoil at Elbow Rock like a thing
doomed to seek forever in its own irresistible might the destruction of its ever-living self.

As one moving in a world of dreams, he went about his morning's work. "Old Prince" whinnied
his usual greeting, but received no answer. "Bess" met him at the barnyard gate, but he did
not speak. The sun leaped above the mountain-tops, and the world was filled with the beauty
of its golden glory. From tree and bush and swaying weed, from forest and pasture, and garden
and willow-fringed river-bank, the birds voiced their happy greetings to the new day. But the
man neither saw nor heard.

When he went to the house with his full milk-pail, and Betty Jo met him at the kitchen-door
with her cheery "Good-morning!" he tried resolutely to free himself from the mood which possessed
him, but only partially succeeded. Several times, as the two faced each other across the breakfast
table, Brian saw the gray eyes filled with questioning anxiety, as though Betty Jo, also, felt
the presence of some forbidding spectre at the meal.

After several vain attempts to find something they could talk about, Betty Jo boldly acknowledged
the situation by saying: "What in the world is the matter with us, this morning, Mr. Burns?
I am possessed with the feeling that there is some one or something behind me. I want to look
over my shoulder every minute."

At her words, Brian involuntarily turned his head for a quick backward glance.

"There!" cried Betty Jo, with a nervous laugh, not at all like her normal, well-poised self.
"You feel it, too!"

Brian forced a laugh in return: "It is the weather, I guess." He tried to speak with casual
ease. "The atmosphere is full of electricity this morning. We'll have a thunder-storm before
night, probably."

"And was it the electricity in the air that kept you tramping up and down your room last night
until almost morning?" she demanded abruptly, with her characteristic opposition to any evasion
of the question at issue.

Brian retorted with a smile: "And how do you know that I tramped up and down my room last night?"

The color in Betty Jo's cheeks deepened as she answered, "I did not sleep very well either."

"But, I surely did not make noise enough for you to hear in your room?" persisted Brian.

The color deepened still more in Betty Jo's checks, as she answered honestly: "I was not in
my room when I heard you." She paused, and when he only looked at her expectantly, but did
not speak, continued, in a hesitating manner quite unlike her matter-of-fact self: "When I
could not sleep, and felt so as though there were somebody or something in the house that had
no business here, I became afraid, and opened my door so I would not feel so much alone; and
then I saw the light under the door of your room, and,--" she hesitated, but finished with
a little air of defiance,--"and I went and listened outside your door to see if you were up."

"Yes?" said Brian Kent, gently.

"And when I heard you walking up and down, I wanted to call to you; but I thought I better
not. It made me feel better, though, just to know that you were there; and so, pretty soon,
I went back to my room again."

"And then?" said Brian.

"And then," confessed Betty Jo, "whatever it was that was keeping me awake came back, and went
on keeping me awake until I was simply forced to go to you for help again."

Poor Betty Jo! She knew very well that she ought not to be saying those things to the man who,
while he listened, could not hide the love that shone in his eyes.

And Brian Kent, as he thought of this woman, whom he loved with all the strength of his best
self, creeping to the door of his room for comfort in the lonely night, scarcely dared trust
himself to speak. At last, when their silence was becoming unbearable, he said, gently: "You
poor child! Why didn't you call to me?"

And Betty Jo, hearing in his voice that which told her how near he was to the surrender that
would bring disaster to them both, was aroused to the defense. The gray eyes never wavered
as she answered, bravely: "I was afraid of that, too."

And so Betty Jo confessed her love that answered so to his need; but, in her very confession,
saved their love from themselves. If she had lowered her eyes--Brian Kent, in reverent acknowledgment,
bowed his head before her. Then, rising, he walked to the window, where he stood for some time
looking out, but seeing nothing.

"It was that horrid man coming yesterday that has so upset us," said Betty Jo, at last. "We
were getting on so beautifully, too. I wish he had gone somewhere else for his vegetables and
eggs and things!"

Brian was able to smile at this as he turned to face her again, and they both knew that,--for
that time, at least,--the danger-point was safely past.

"I wish so, too," he agreed; "but never mind; Auntie Sue will be home in a day or two, and
then everything will be all right again."

But when he had taken his hat and was starting out for the day's work, Betty Jo asked, "What
are you doing to-day?"

"I was going to work on the fence around the clearing," he answered. "Why?"

"I--I--wish you could find something to do nearer the house," came the slow answer. "Couldn't
you work in the garden, perhaps?"

"I should say I could!" he returned heartily.

All that forenoon, as Betty Jo went about her household duties she felt the presence of the
thing that filled her so with fear and dread. With vigorous determination she scolded herself
for being so foolish, and argued with herself that it was all a nervous fancy born of her restless
night. But, the next moment, she would start with a sudden fear and turn quickly as if to face
some one whose presence she felt behind her. And Brian, too, as he worked in the garden, caught
himself often in the act of pausing to look about with nervous apprehension.

During the noonday meal they made a determined effort to laugh at themselves, and by the time
dinner was over had almost succeeded. But when Brian, as he pushed back his chair, said, jestingly,
"Well, am I to work in the garden again this afternoon?" Betty Jo answered, emphatically, "Indeed
you are! I will not stay another minute in this house alone. Goodness knows what I will do
to-night!"

There was no jest in the man's voice as he answered: "I'll tell you what you will do to-night,--you
will go to bed and you will go to sleep. You will leave the door to your room wide-open, and
I shall lie right there on that couch, so near that a whisper from you will reach me. We will
have no more of this midnight prowling, I promise you. If any ghost dares appear, we--"

The reassuring words died on Brian Kent's lips. His eyes, looking over Betty Jo's shoulders,
were fixed and staring, and the look on his face sent a chill of horror to the girl's heart.
She dared not move nor look around as he sat like a man turned to stone.

A woman's laugh broke the dead silence.

With a scream, Betty Jo sprung to her feet and whirled about.

As one in a trance, Brian Kent arose and stood beside her.

The woman, who stood in the open doorway, laughed again.

Martha Kent's heavy drinking the night before, when her clubhouse friends in a wild debauch
had tried to help her to forget, was the climax of many months of like excesses. The mood in
which she had sent the man Green from her room was the last despairing flicker of her better
instincts. Moved by her memories of better things,--of a better love and dreams and ideals,--she
had spent a little hour or two in sentimental regret for that which she had so recklessly cast
aside. And then, because there was within her no foundation of abiding principle for her sentiment,
she had again put on the character which had so separated her from the life of the man to whom
she was married, indeed, but with whom she was never one. With the burning consciousness of
what she might have been and of what she was ever tormenting her, she sank, as the hours passed,
deeper and deeper into the quicksands of physical indulgence until, in her mad determination
to destroy utterly her ability to feel remorse, she lost all mental control of herself, and
responded to every insane whim of her drink-disordered brain.

As she stood there, now, in the doorway of that little log house by the river,--face to face
with the man and the woman who, though they were united in their love, were yet separated by
the very fact of her existence,--she was, in all her hideous, but pitiful, repulsiveness, the
legitimate creation of those life-forces which she so fitly personified.

Betty Jo instinctively drew closer to Brian's side.

"Hello, Brian, dear!" said the woman, with a drunken leer. "Thought I'd call to see you in
your charming love-nest that Harry Green raved so about. Can't you introduce me to your little
sweetheart?"

"No?" she continued, and laughed again. Then coming an unsteady step toward them, she added,
thickly: "Very well, Brian, old sport; you won't introduce me,--I'll have to introduce myself."
She grinned with malicious triumph at Betty Jo: "Don't be frightened, my dear. It's all right.
I'm nobody of importance,--just his wife,--that's all,--just his wife."

Betty Jo, with a little cry, turned to the man who stood as if stricken dumb with horror. "Brian?"
she said. "Oh, Brian?"

It was the first time she had ever addressed him by his given name, and Brian Kent, as he looked,
saw in those gray eyes no hint of doubt or censure, but only the truest love and sympathy.
Betty Jo had not failed in the moment of her supreme testing.

"It's true, all right, isn't it, Brian?" said Martha Kent. "I'm his wife fast enough, my dear.
But you don't need to worry,--you two. I'm a good sport,--I am. I've had my fun. No kick coming
from me. Just called to pay my respects,--that's all. So-long, Brian, old sport! Good-bye,
my dear!"

With an uncertain wave of her hand, she staggered through the doorway and passed from their sight.

In the little log house by the river the two who had kept the fineness of their love stood
face to face.

For Betty Jo, the barrier which Brian Kent had maintained between them to protect her from
his love was no longer a thing unknown. But the revelation, coming as it did, had brought no
shadow of distrust or doubt of the man to whom she had so fully entrusted herself. It had,
indeed, only strengthened her faith in him and deepened her love.

For one glorious triumphal moment the very soul of the man exulted in the truth which Betty
Jo made known to him. Then he turned slowly away, for he dared not trust himself to look at
her a moment longer.

With bowed head he paced up and down the room. He went to the table which held Auntie Sue's
sewing-basket, and fingered the trifles there. Then, slowly, he passed through the open door
to the porch, where Betty Jo, through the window, near which she stood, saw him look away over
the river and the mountains.

Suddenly, she saw him start, and stare intently at some nearer object that had caught his attention.
As Betty Jo watched, he moved to the edge of the porch, and, stooping, grasped the railing
with his hands;--his head and shoulders were thrust forward; his lips were parted; his whole
attitude was that of the most intense and excited interest. Then, straightening up, he threw
back his head, and laughed aloud. But his laughter alarmed the girl, who ran to the door, crying,
"What is it, Brian?"

"Look!" he shouted, madly, and pointed toward the river. "Look, Betty Jo!"

Martha Kent, alone in one of the clubhouse boats, was rowing with drunken clumsiness toward
the head of the Elbow Rock rapids.

The woman's friends had missed her, and, guessing, from some remark she had made, where she
had gone, had sent four men of the party after her; for they realized that she was in no condition
to be alone in a boat on the river, particularly on that part of the stream near Auntie Sue's
place. After leaving Brian and Betty Jo, she had gone back to her boat in the eddy at the foot
of the garden, and was pulling out into the stream when she saw her friends approaching. With
a drunken laugh, she waved her hand, and began rowing from them directly toward the swift water.
The men shouted for her to stop, and pulled with all their strength. But the woman, taking
their calls as a challenge, rowed the harder, while every awkward pull of the oars carried
her nearer the deadly grip of the current.

Betty Jo, as she reached Brian's side, and saw what was happening on the river, grasped the
man's arm appealingly, with a cry: "Brian! Brian! She is going into the rapids! She will be
carried down to Elbow Rock!"

But Brian Kent, for the moment, was beside himself. All that he had suffered,--all that the
woman out there on the river had cost him in anguish of soul,--all that she had taken from
him of happiness,--came before him with blinding vividness; and now,--now,--in her drunkenness,
she was making her own way to her own destruction.

"Of course she is!" he shouted, in answer to Betty Jo. "Her friends yonder are driving her
to it! Could anything be more fitting?"

As though grasped by powerful unseen hands beneath the surface, the boat shot forward. The
woman, feeling the sudden pull of the current, stopped rowing, and looked about as if wondering
what had happened. Her friends, not daring to follow closer to the dangerous water, were pulling
madly for the landing at the foot of the garden. The boat in the middle of the river moved faster.

"Look, Betty Jo, look!" shouted the man on the porch, madly. "It's got her now--the river has
got her--look!"

With a scream of fear, the woman in the boat dropped her oars, and grasped the gunwale of the
little craft.

Brian Kent laughed.

Betty Jo shrank back from him, her eyes, big with horror, fixed upon his face. Then, with a
quick movement, she sprang toward him again, and, catching his arm, shook him with all her
strength and struck him again and again with her fist.

"Brian! Brian!" she cried. "You are insane!"

The man looked down at her for an instant with an expression of bewildered astonishment on
his face, as one awakened from a dream. He raised his hand and drew it across his forehead
and eyes.

The boat with the helpless woman was already past the front of the house.

Betty Jo cried again as if calling the man she loved from a distance: "Brian! Brian!"

With a sudden movement, the man jerked away from her. The next instant, he had leaped over
the railing of the porch to the ground below and was running with all his might toward the
river, at an angle which would put him opposite or a little below the boat when he reached
the bank.

With a sob, Betty Jo followed as fast as she could.

As Brian Kent raced toward the river's edge, the powerful current drew the boat with the woman
into the first rough water of the rapids, and, as the skiff was shaken and tossed by the force
that was sweeping it with ever-increasing speed toward the wild turmoil at Elbow Rock, the
woman screamed again and again for help.

The warring forces of the stream whirled the little craft about, and she saw the man who was
nearing the bank. She rose to her feet in the rocking boat, and stretched out her arms,--calling
his name, "Brian! Brian! Brian!" Then the impact of the boat against a larger wave of the rapids
brought her to her knees, and she clung to the thwarts with piteous cries.

Betty Jo and the clubhouse men, who had overtaken her, saw Brian as he reached the river opposite
the boat. For a little way he raced the tumbling waters until he had gained a short distance
ahead of the skiff; then they saw him, without an instant's pause, leap from the high bank
far out into the boiling stream.

Running along the bank, the helpless watchers saw the man fighting his way toward the boat.
One moment, he disappeared from sight, dragged beneath the surface by the powerful currents
with which he wrestled. The next instant, the boiling waters would toss him high on the crest
of a rolling wave, only to drag him down again a second later. But, always, he drew nearer
and nearer the object of his struggle, while the rapids swept both the helpless woman and the
tossing boat and the swimming man onward toward the towering cliff, and the thunder-roar of
the mad waters below grew louder and louder.

The splendid strength of arms and shoulders which Brian Kent had acquired by his months of
work with his ax on the timbered mountain-side sustained him now in his need. With tremendous
energy, he breasted the might of the furious river. To the watchers it seemed at times that
it was beyond the power of human muscles to endure the terrific strain. Then he gained the
boat, and they saw him striving with desperate energy to drag it toward the opposite shore
and so into the currents that would carry it past the menacing point of the cliff and perhaps
to the safety of the quiet water below.

All that human strength could do in that terrible situation, Brian Kent did. But the task was
beyond the power of mortal man.

For an instant the breathless watchers on the bank thought there was a chance; but the waters
with mad fury dragged their victims back, and, with terrific power, hurled them forward toward
the frowning rocks.

It was quickly over.

In that wild turmoil of the boiling, leaping, seething, lashing, hammering waves, the boat,
with the woman who crouched on her knees on the bottom, and the man who clung to the side of
the craft, appeared for a second lifted high in the air. The next instant, the crash of breaking
wood sounded above the thundering roaring of the waters. The man and the woman disappeared.
The wreck of the boat was flung again and again against the cliff, until, battered and broken,
it was swept away around the point.

Against the dark wall of rock Brian Kent's head and shoulders appeared for an instant, and
they saw that he held the woman in his arms. The furious waters closed over them. For the fraction
of a second, the man's hand and arm appeared again above the surface, and was gone.

Betty Jo sank to the ground with a low cry of anguish, and hid her face.

Another moment, and she was aroused by a loud shout from one of the men who had caught a glimpse
of the river's victims farther out at the point of the rocky cliff.

Springing to her feet, Betty Jo started madly up the trail that leads over the bluff. The men
followed.

Immediately below Elbow Rock there is a deep hole formed by the waters that pour around the
point of the cliff, and below this hole a wide gravelly bar pushing out from the Elbow Rock
side of the stream forces the main volume of the river to the opposite bank. In the shallow
water against the upper side of the bar they found them.

With the last flicker of his consciousness, Brian Kent had felt his feet touch the bottom where
the water shoals against the bar, and, with his last remaining strength, had dragged himself
and the body of the woman into the shallows.

Betty Jo was no hysterical weakling to spend the priceless seconds of such a time in senseless
ravings. The first-aid training which she had received at school gave her the necessary knowledge
which her native strength of character and practical common sense enabled her to apply. Under
her direction, the men from the clubhouse worked as they probably never had worked before in
all their useless lives.

But the man and the woman whose life-currents had touched and mingled,--drawn apart to flow
apparently far from each other, but drawn together again to once more touch, and, as one, to
endure the testing of the rapids,--the man and the woman had not brought to the terrible ordeal
the same strength.

One was drawn into the Elbow Rock rapids by the careless indifference and the reckless spirit
that was born of the life she had chosen; by her immediate associates and environment; and
by the circumstances that were, at the last analysis, of her own making.

The other braved the same dangers, strong in the splendid spirit that had set him against such
terrible odds to attempt the woman's rescue. From his work on the timbered mountain-side, from
his life in the clean atmosphere of the hills, and from the spiritual and mental companionship
of that little log house by the river, he had brought to his testing the splendid strength
which enabled him to endure.

Somewhere in that terrible conflict with the wild waters at Elbow Rock, while the man whose
life she had so nearly ruined by her wantonness was fighting to save her, the soul of Martha
Kent went from the bruised and battered body which Brian drew at last from the vicious grasp
of the currents.

But the man lived.

CHAPTER XXIV.

JUDY'S RETURN.

In the early evening twilight of the day following the tragedy at Elbow Rock, Betty Jo was
sitting on the porch, to rest for a few minutes in the fresh air, after long hours of watching
beside Brian's bed.

A neighbor woman had come to help, but Betty Jo would not leave the side of the man she loved
as he fought his way slowly out of the dark shadow of the death that had so nearly conquered
him. Nor, indeed, would Brian let her go, for even in those moments when he appeared most unconscious
of the life about him, he seemed to feel her presence. All through the long, long hours of
that anxious night and day she had watched and waited the final issue;--feeling the dark messenger
very close at times, but gaining hope as the hours passed and her lover won his way nearer
and nearer to the light;--courageous always;--giving him the best of her strength, so far as
it was possible to give him anything;--making him feel the steady, enduring fullness of her love.

At last, they felt that the victory was won. The doctor, satisfied that the crisis was safely
past, went his way to visit other patients. By evening, Brian was resting so easily that the
girl had stolen away for a few minutes, leaving the neighbor to call her if he should waken.

Betty Jo had been on the porch but a short time when a step sounded on the gravel walk that
led from the porch steps around the corner of the house. A moment more, and Judy appeared.

The mountain girl stopped when she saw Betty Jo, and the latter went to the top of the steps.

"Good-evening, Judy!" said Betty Jo, quietly. "Won't you come in?"

Slowly, with her black beady eyes fixed on Betty Jo's face, Judy went up the steps.

As the mountain girl reached the level of the porch-floor, Betty Jo drew a little back toward
the door.

Judy stopped instantly, and stood still. Then, in a low tone, she said: "You-all ain't got
no call ter be afeared, Miss Betty Jo. You hain't never goin' ter have no call ter be scared
of me again, never."

"I am so glad for you to say that, Judy," returned Betty Jo, smiling. "I don't want to be afraid
of you, and I am not really; but--"

"Ain't you-all plumb a-hatin' me for what I done?" asked Judy, wonderingly.

"No, no; Judy, dear, I don't hate you at all, and you must know that Auntie Sue loves you."

"Yes," Judy nodded her head, thoughtfully. "Auntie Sue just naturally loves everybody. Hit
wouldn't be no more'n nature, though, for you-all ter hate me. I sure have been poison-mean."

"But that is all past now, Judy," said Betty Jo, heartily. "Come and sit down?" She started
toward the chairs.

But the mountain girl did not move, except to shake her head in refusal of the hospitable invitation.

"I ain't a-goin' ter put my foot inside this house, nor set with you-all, nor nothin' 'til
I've said what I done come ter say."

Betty Jo turned back to her again: "What is it, Judy?"

"Auntie Sue done told me not ter let you-all er Mr. Burns see me 'til she come back. But I
can't help hit, an' if I don't talk 'bout that none, I reckon she ain't a-goin' ter mind so
much. You-all don't know that I seed Auntie Sue that night 'fore she went away, an' that hit
was me took her ter the station with 'Old Prince,' an' brung him back, did you?"

"No," said Betty Jo, "I did not know; and if Auntie Sue told you not to tell us about it, I
would rather you did not, Judy."

"I ain't aimin' ter," Judy returned; "but Auntie Sue don't know nothin' 'bout what's happened
since she went away, an' hit's that what's a-makin' me come ter you-all."

Betty Jo, seeing that the poor girl was laboring under some intense emotional stress, said,
gently: "What is it that you wish to tell me, Judy? I am sure Auntie Sue will not mind, if
you feel so about it."

The mountain girl's eyes filled and the tears streamed down her sallow cheeks, while her twisted
shoulders shook with the grief she could not suppress, as she faltered: "My God-A'mighty! Miss
Betty Jo, I--I--didn't aim ter do hit! I sure didn't! 'Fore God, I'd er let 'em kill me first,
if I'd only had time ter think. But hit--hit--was me what told that there woman how Mr. Burns
was Brian Kent. Hit's--hit's--me what's ter blame for gittin' her killed in the river an' him
so nigh drowned. O God! O God! If he'll only git well!

"An' I ain't a-feelin' toward you-all like I did, Miss Betty Jo. I can't no more. I done left
them clubhouse folks, after I knowed what has happened, an' all day I been hangin' 'round here
in the bresh. An' Lucy Warden she done told me, this afternoon, 'bout how you-all was takin'
care of Mr. Burns, an' how you just naturally wouldn't let him die. An'--an'--I kin see, now,
what hit is that makes Auntie Sue and him an' you-all so different from that there clubhouse
gang an' pap an' me. An' I ain't a-wantin' ter be like I been, no more, ever. I'd a heap rather
jump inter the river an' drown myself. 'Fore God, I would! An' I want ter come back an' help
you-all take care of him; an' live with Auntie Sue; an'--an'--be a little might like youuns,
if I kin. Will you let me, Miss Betty Jo? Will you? I most know Auntie Sue would, if she was here."

Before the mountain girl had finished speaking, Betty Jo's arm was around the poor twisted
shoulders, and Betty Jo's eyes were answering Judy's pleading.

And so, when Auntie Sue came home, it was Judy who met her at the station, with "Old Prince"
and the buggy; and as they drove down the winding road to the little log house by the river,
the mountain girl told the old gentlewoman all that had happened in her absence.

CHAPTER XXV.

THE RIVER.

Brian Kent recovered quickly from the effects of his experience in the Elbow Rock rapids, and
was soon able again to take up his work on the little farm. Every day he labored in the garden,
or in the clearing, or at some task which did not rightly fall to those who rented the major
part of Auntie Sue's tillable acreage.

Auntie Sue had told him about her visit to the President of the Empire Consolidated Savings
Bank, and of the arrangement made by the banker--as she understood it--for Brian's protection.
But while the dear old lady explained that Homer T. Ward was one of her pupils, she did not
reveal the relation between Brian's former chief and Betty Jo. Neither Auntie Sue nor Betty
Jo, for several very good reasons, was ready for Brian to know the whole truth about his stenographer.
It was quite enough, they reasoned, for him to love his stenographer, and for his stenographer
to love him, without raising any more obstacles in the pathway of their happiness.

As the busy weeks passed, several letters came from the publishers of Brian's book,--letters
which made the three in the little log house by the river very happy. Already, in the first
reception of this new writer's work, those who had undertaken to present it to the public saw
many promises of the fulfillment of their prophecies as to its success. When the third letter
came, a statement of the sales to date was enclosed, and, that afternoon, Betty Jo went to
Brian where he was at work in the clearing.

When they were comfortably, not to say cozily, seated on a log in the shade at the edge of
the forest, she announced that she had come for a very serious talk.

"Yes?" he returned; but he really looked altogether too happy to be exceedingly serious.

"Yes," she continued, "I have. As your accredited business agent and--" she favored him with
a Betty Jo smile--"shall I say manager?"

"Why not managing owner?" he retorted.

"I am glad you confirm my promotion so readily," she returned, with a charming touch of color
in her cheeks, "because that, you see, helps me to present what I have to say for the good
of the firm."

"I am listening, Betty Jo."

"Very well; tell me, first, Brian, just exactly how much do you owe that bank, reward-money
and all, and Auntie Sue, interest and everything?"

Brian went to his coat, which lay on a near-by stump, and returned with a small pocket account-book.

"I have it all here," he said, as he seated himself close beside her again. And, opening the
book, he showed her how he had kept a careful record of the various sums he had taken from
the bank, with the dates.

"Oh, Brian, Brian!" she said with a little cry of delight, "I am so glad,--so glad you have
this! It is exactly what I want for my wedding present. It was so thoughtful of you to fix
it for me."

Thus by a characteristic, Betty Jo turn she made the little book of painful memories a book
of joyous promise.

When they again returned to the consideration of business matters, Brian gave her the figures
which answered her questions as to his total indebtedness.

Again Betty Jo exclaimed with delight: "Brian, do you see? Take your pencil and figure quick
your royalties on the number of books sold as given in the publishers' statement."

Brian laughed. "I have figured it."

"And your book has already earned more than enough to pay everything," said Betty Jo. "Isn't
that simply grand, Brian?"

"It is pretty 'grand,' all right," he agreed. "The only trouble is, I must wait so long before
the money is due me from the publishers."

"That is exactly what I came to talk about," she returned quickly. "I tried to have it different
when I made the arrangements with them, but the terms of payment in the contract are the very
best I could get; and so I have planned a little plan whereby you--that is, we--won't need
to wait for your freedom until the date of settlement with the publishers."

"You have a plan which will do that?" Brian questioned, doubtfully.

She nodded vigorously, with another Betty Jo smile. "This is the plan, and you are not to interrupt
until I have finished everything: I happen to have some money of my very, very own, which is
doing nothing but earning interest--"

At the look on Brian's face, she stopped suddenly; but, when he started to speak, she put her
hand quickly over his mouth, saying: "You were not to say a single word until I have finished.
Play fair, Brian, dear; please!"

When he signified that he would not speak, she continued in her most matter-of-fact and businesslike
tone: "There is every reason in the world, Brian, why you should pay off your debt to the bank
and to Auntie Sue at the earliest possible moment. You can think of several reasons yourself.
There is me, for instance.

"Very well. You have the money to your credit with the publishers; but you can't use it yet.
I have money that you can just as well use. You will make an assignment of your royalties to
me, all in proper form, to cover the amount you need. You will pay me the same interest my
money is now earning where it is.

"I will arrange for the money to be sent to you in the form of a cashier's cheque, payable
to the banker, Homer T. Ward, so the name Brian Kent does not appear before we are ready, you
see. You will make believe to Auntie Sue that the money is from the publishers. You will send
the cheque to Mr. Bank President personally, with a statement of your indebtedness to him properly
itemized, interest figured on everything. You will instruct him to open an account for you
with the balance. And then--then, Brian, you will give dear Auntie Sue a cheque for what you
owe her, with interest of course. And we will all be so happy! And--and--don't you think I
am a very good managing owner? You do, don't you?"

When he hesitated, she added: "And the final and biggest reason of all is, that I want you
to do as I have planned more than I ever wanted anything in the world, except you, and I want
this so because I want you. You can't really refuse, now, can you?"

How, indeed, could he refuse?

So they worked it out together as Betty Jo had planned; and when the time came for the last
and best part of the plan, and Brian confessed to Auntie Sue how he had robbed her, and had
known for so long that she was aware of his crime against her, and finished his confession
by giving her the cheque, it is safe to say that there was nowhere in all the world more happiness
than in the little log house by the river.

"God-A'mighty sure helped me to do one good turn, anyway, when I jumped inter the river after
that there book when Mr. Burns done throw'd hit away," commented the delighted Judy.

And while they laughed together, Betty Jo hugged the deformed mountain girl, and answered:
"God Almighty was sure good to us all that day, Judy, dear!"

It was only a day later when Auntie Sue received a letter from Homer T. Ward which sent the
dear old lady in great excitement to Betty Jo. The banker was coming for his long-deferred
vacation to the log house by the river.

There was in his letter a kindly word for his former clerk, Brian Kent, should Auntie Sue chance
to see him; much love for his old teacher and for the dearest girl in the world, his Betty Jo.

But that part of Homer T. Ward's letter which most excited Auntie Sue and caused Betty Jo to
laugh until she cried was this: The great financier, who, even in his busy life of large responsibilities,
found time for some good reading, had discovered a great book, by a new and heretofore unknown
writer. The book was great because every page of it, Homer T. Ward declared, reminded him of
Auntie Sue. If the writer had known her for years, he could not have drawn a truer picture
of her character, nor presented her philosophy of life more clearly. It was a remarkable piece
of work. It was most emphatically the sort of writing that the world needed. This new author
was a genius of the rarest and best sort. Mr. Ward predicted boldly that this new star in the
literary firmament was destined to rank among those of the first magnitude. Already, among
the banker's closest book friends, the new book was being discussed, and praised. He would
bring a copy for Auntie Sue and Betty Jo to read. It was not only the book of the year;--it
was, in Homer T. Ward's opinion, one of the really big books of the Century.

"Well," commented Betty Jo, when they had read and reread that part of the letter, "dear old
Uncle Homer may be a very conservative banker, but he certainly is more than liberal when he
touches on the question of this new author. Won't we have fun, Auntie Sue! Oh, won't we!"

Then they planned the whole thing, and proceeded to carry out their plan.

Brian was told only that Mr. Ward was coming to visit Auntie Sue, and that he must be busy
somewhere away from the house when the banker arrived, and not come until he was sent for,
because Auntie Sue must make a full confession to her old pupil of the part she had played
in the Re-Creation of Brian Kent before Homer T. Ward should meet his former clerk.

Brian, never dreaming that there were other confessions to be made, smilingly agreed to do
exactly as he was told.

When the momentous day arrived, Betty Jo met her uncle in Thompsonville, and all the way home
she talked so continuously of her school, and asked so many questions about his conduct and
life and their many Chicago friends, that the helpless bank president had no chance whatever
of asking her a single embarrassing question. But, when dinner was over (Brian had taken his
lunch with him to the clearing), Homer T. Ward wanted to know things.

"Was Brian Kent still working in the neighborhood?"

Auntie Sue informed him that Brian was still working in the neighborhood.

"Betty Jo had seen the bank clerk?" Betty Jo's uncle supposed. "What did she think of the fellow?"

Betty Jo thought Brian Kent was a rather nice fellow.

"And how had Betty Jo been amusing herself while her old uncle was slaving in the city?"

Betty Jo had been doing a number of things: Helping Auntie Sue with her housework; learning
to cook; keeping up her stenographic work; reading.

"Reading?" That reminded him, and forthwith Mr. Ward went to his room, and returned with the book.

And then those two blessed women listened and admired while he introduced them to the new genius,
and read certain favorite passages from the great book, and grew enthusiastic on the new author,
saying all that he had written in his letter and many things more, until Betty Jo could restrain
herself no longer, but ran to him, and took the book from his hands, and, with her arms around
his neck, told him that he was the dearest uncle in the world, because she was going to marry
the man who wrote the book he so admired.

There were long explanations after that: How the book so highly valued by Banker Ward had actually
been written in that very log house by the river; how Auntie Sue had sent for Betty Jo to assist
the author with her typewriting; how the author, not knowing who Betty Jo was, had fallen in
love with his stenographer, and, finally, how Betty Jo's author-lover was even then waiting
to meet her guardian, still not knowing that her guardian was the banker Homer T. Ward.

"You see, uncle, dear," explained Betty Jo, "Auntie Sue and I were obliged to conspire this
little conspiracy against my man, because, you know, authors are funny folk, and you never
can tell exactly what they are going to do. After giving your heart to a genius as wonderful
as you yourself know this one to be, it would be terrible to have him refuse you just because
you were the only living relative of a rich old banker;--it would, wouldn't it, uncle, dear?"

And, really, Homer T. Ward could find reason in Betty Jo's argument, which ended with that
fatal trick question.

Taking his agreement for granted, Betty Jo continued: "And, you see, Auntie Sue and I were
simply forced to conspire a little against you, uncle, dear, because you know perfectly well
that, much as I needed the advantage of associating with such an author-man in the actual writing
of his book, you would never, never have permitted me to fall in love with him before you had
discovered for yourself what a great man he really is, and I simply had to fall in love with
him because God made me to take care of a genius of some sort. And if you don't believe that,
you can ask Judy. Judy has found out a lot about God lately.

"You won't think I am talking nonsense, or am belittling the occasion will you, uncle, dear?"
she added anxiously. "I am not,--truly, I am not,--I am very serious. But I can't help being
a little excited, can I? Because it is terrible to love a banker-uncle, as I love you, and
at the same time to love a genius-man, as I love my man, and--and--not know what you two dearest
men in the world are going to do to each other."

And, at this, the girl's arms were about his neck again, and the girl's head went down on his
shoulder; and he felt her cheek hot with blushes against his and a very suspicious drop of
moisture slipped down inside his collar.

When he had held Betty Jo very close for a while, and had whispered comforting things in her
ear, and had smiled over her shoulder at his old teacher, the banker sent the girl to find
her lover while he should have a serious talk with Auntie Sue.

The long shadows of the late afternoon were on the mountain-side when Brian Kent and Betty
Jo came down the hill to the little log house by the river.

The girl had said to him simply, "You are to come, now, Brian;--Auntie Sue and Mr. Ward sent
me to tell you."

She was very serious, and as they walked together clung closely to his arm. And the man, too,
seeming to feel the uselessness of words for such an occasion, was silent. When he helped her
over the rail-fence at the lower edge of the clearing, he held her in his arms for a little;
then they went on.

They saw the beautiful, tree-clad hills lying softly outlined in the shadows like folds of
green and timeworn velvet, extending ridge on ridge into the blue. They saw the river, their
river, making its gleaming way with many a curve and bend to the mighty sea, that was hidden
somewhere far beyond the distant sky-line of their vision; and between them and the river,
at the foot of the hill, they saw the little log house with Auntie Sue and Homer T. Ward waiting
in the doorway.

When the banker saw the man at Betty Jo's side, his mind was far from the clerk whom he had
known more than a year before in the city. His thoughts were on the author, the scholar, the
genius, whose book had so compelled his respect and admiration. This tall fellow, with the
athletic shoulders and deeply tanned face, who was dressed in the rude garb of the backwoodsman,
with his coat over his arm, his ax on his shoulder, and his dinner-pail in his hand,--who was
he? And why was Betty Jo so familiar with this stranger,--Betty Jo, who was usually so reserved,
with her air of competent self-possession? Homer T. Ward turned to look inquiringly at Auntie Sue.

His old teacher smiled back at him without speaking.

Then, Betty Jo and Brian Kent were standing before him.

"Here he is, Uncle Homer," said the girl.

Brian, hearing her speak those two revealing words, and seeing her go to the bank president,
who put his arm around her with the loving intimacy of a father, stood speechless with amazement,
looking from Homer T. Ward and Betty Jo to Auntie Sue and back to the banker and the girl.

Mr. Ward, still not remembering the bank clerk in this re-created Brian Kent, was holding out
his hand with a genial smile.

As the bewildered Brian mechanically took the hand so cordially extended, the older man said:
"It is an honor, sir, to meet a man who can do the work you have done in writing that book.
It is impossible to estimate the value of such a service as you have rendered the race. You
have a rare and wonderful gift, Mr. Burns, and I predict for you a life of remarkable usefulness."

Brian, still confused, but realizing that Mr. Ward had not recognized him, looked appealingly
at Betty Jo and then to Auntie Sue.

Auntie Sue spoke: "Mr. Ward is the uncle and guardian of Betty Jo, Brian."

"'Brian'!" ejaculated the banker.

Auntie Sue continued: "Homer, dear, Betty Jo has presented HER author, Mr. Burns;--permit me
to introduce MY Brian Kent!"

And Judy remarked that evening, when, after supper, they were all on the porch watching the
sunset: "Hit sure is dad burned funny how all tangled an' snarled up everythin' kin git 'fore
a body kin think most, an', then, if a body'll just keep a-goin' right along, all ter onct
hit's all straightened out as purty as anythin'."

They laughed happily at the mountain girl's words, and the dear old teacher's sweet voice answered:
"Yes, Judy; it is all just like the river, don't you see?"

"Meanin' as how the water gits all tangled an' mixed up when hit's a-boilin' an' a-roarin'
like mad down there at Elbow Rock, an' then all ter onct gits all smooth an' calm like again,"
returned Judy.

"Meaning just that, Judy," returned Auntie Sue. "No matter how tangled and confused life seems
to be, it will all come straight at the last, if, like the river, we only keep going on."

And when the dreamy Indian-summer days were come and the blue haze of autumn lay softly over
the brown and gold of the beautiful Ozark hills, the mountain folk of the Elbow Rock neighborhood
gathered one day at the little log house by the river.

It was a simple ceremony that made the man and the woman, who were so dear to Auntie Sue, husband
and wife. But the backwoods minister was not wanting in dignity, though his dress was rude
and his words plain; and the service lacked nothing of beauty and meaning, though the guests
were but humble mountaineers; for love was there, and sincerity, and strength, and rugged kindliness.

And when the simple wedding feast was over, they all went down to the river-bank, at the lower
corner of the garden, where, at the eddy landing, a staunch John-boat waited, equipped and ready.

When the last good-byes were spoken, and Brian and Betty Jo put out from the little harbor
into the stream, Auntie Sue, with Judy and Homer T. Ward, went back to the porch of the little
log house, there to watch the beginning of the voyage.

With Brian at the oars, the boat crossed the stream to the safer waters close to the other
shore, and then, with Betty Jo waving her handkerchief, and the neighbor men and boys running
shouting along the bank, swept down the river, past the roaring turmoil of the Elbow Rock rapids
into the quiet reaches below, and away on its winding course between the tree-clad hills.

"I am so glad," said Auntie Sue, her dear old face glowing with love, and her sweet voice tremulous
with feeling, "I am so glad they chose the river for their wedding journey."

Note.--This biographical sketch of Harold Bell Wright will give the reader a knowledge and
understanding of the life-work, aims and purposes of the author as expressed through his books.
It is reprinted on these pages in response to popular demand.--The Publishers.

HAROLD BELL WRIGHT

A Biography

By ELSBERY W. REYNOLDS

The biography of a man is of importance and interest to other men just to the degree that his
life and work touches and influences the life of his time and the lives of individuals.

Only in a feeble way, at best, can the life story of any man be told on the printed page. The
story is better as it is written on the hearts of men and women and the man himself does the
writing.

He lives longest who lives best. He who carves deepest against corroding time is he who touches
with surest hand the greatest number of human hearts.

He may or may not be a prodigy of physical strength. He may or may not be a tower of mental
energy. But so long as this old world stands the man with an overpowering desire for all that
is best for the race to be in the race, whose life is in tune with the divine and with the
good that is within us all, whether he be orator, writer, artist or artisan, is a giant among men.

That which we read makes a deeper and more lasting impression on our lives than that which
we see or hear. An author with millions of readers must be a great central power of thought
and influence, at least, in his own day and generation. We can understand the truth of this
through a study of the aims and life purposes of Harold Bell Wright as expressed through his
books and the circumstances under which they were written. The wonderful popularity of this
author is well estimated by the millions of copies of his books that have been sold. This is
also the greatest testimonial that can be given to the merit of his work. The great heart of
the reading public is an unprejudiced critic. "Is not the greatest voice the one to which the
greatest number of hearts listen with pleasure?"

When a man has attained to great eminence under adverse circumstances we sometimes wonder to
what heights he might have climbed under conditions more favorable. Who can tell? It is just
as easy to say what the young man of twenty will be when a matured man of forty. The boy of
poverty makes a man of power while the boy nursed in the lap of luxury makes a man of uneventful
life, and, again, a life started with a handicap remains so through its possible three score
years and ten and the life begun with advantages multiplies its talents ten and a hundred fold.

So, after all, is not the heart of man the real man and is it not the guiding star of his ambition,
his will, his determination, his conscience?

Harold Bell Wright, the second of four sons, was born May 4, 1872, in Rome, Oneida County,
New York. From an earlier biographer we quote the following:

"Some essential facts must be dug from out the past where they lie embedded in the detrital
chronicles of the race. Say, then, that away back in 1640 a ship load of Anglo-Saxon freedom
landed in New England. After a brief period some of the more venturesome spirits emigrated
to the far west and settled amid the undulations of the Mohawk valley in central New York.
Protestant France also sent westward some Gallic chivalry hungering for freedom. The fringe
of this garment of civilization spread out and reached also into the same valley. English determination
and Huguenot aspiration touched elbows in the war for political and religious freedom, and
touched hearts and hands in the struggle for economic freedom. Their generations were a genuine
aristocracy. Mutual struggles after mutual aims cemented casual acquaintance into enduring
friendship. William Wright met, loved and married Alma T. Watson. To them four sons were born.
A carpenter contractor, a man who builds, contrives and constructs, is joined to a woman into
whose soul of wholesome refinement come images of dainty beauty, where they glow and grow radiant.
With lavish unrestraint the life of this French woman pours itself into her sons. The third
child died in infancy. The eldest survived his mother by some thirteen years. The youngest
is a constructive mechanical engineer. The second son is Harold Bell Wright.

"During ten years this mother and this son live in rare intimacy. The boy's first enduring
impression of this life is the vision of the mother bending affectionately over him while criticising
the water color sketch his unpracticed fingers had just made. Crude blendings and faulty lines
were pointed out, then touched into harmony and more accurate perspective by her quick skill.
Together their eyes watched shades dance on sunny slopes, cloud shadows race among the hills
or lie lazily in the valley below.

"Exuberant Nature and ebullient boy loved each other from the first. Alone, enravished, he
often wandered far in sheer joy of living. He brings, one day, from his rambles a bunch of
immortelles which mother graciously receives. Twenty years later the boy, man-grown, bows reverently
over a box of withered flowers--the same bouquet the mother took that day and laid away as
a precious memento of his boyish love. Such was the first decade.

"A ten-year-old boy, motherless, steals from harsh labor and yet harsher surroundings, runs
to the home of sacred memories, clambers to the attic, and spends the night in anguished solitude.
This was his first Gethsemane. For ten years buffeted and beaten, battling with adversity,
sometimes losing but never lost, snatching learning here and there, hating sham, loving passionately,
misunderstood, misapprehended, too stubbornly proud to ask apologies or make useless explanations,
fighting poverty in the depths of privation, wrestling existence from toil he loathed, befriending
many and also befriended much, but always face to face with the grim tragedy which has held
part of the stage since Eden.

"Such was the second decade. The first was spent on hill sides where shadows only made the
light more buoyant as they fled away. The second was passed in the valley where the shadow
hung lazily till the cloud grew very black and drenched the soil.

"Lured to college, he undertook to acquire academic culture. As is well known, college life
with its professorial anecdotes and jokes, its student pranks and grind, is routine drudgery
and cob-webbery prose. Bookish professors and conventional students rarely have just such an
animate problem of French artistry and Bohemian experience to solve. They did nobly, to be
sure, but here was a mind which threw over them all the glamour of romance."

Mr. Wright entered the Preparatory Department of Hiram College at the age of twenty, having
previously accepted the faith and identified himself with the Christian Church in the little
quarry town of Grafton, Ohio. He continued active in the different departments of work in his
church all during his school years with the ultimate result of his entering the ministry.

Having no financial means, while in school he made his way by doing odd jobs about town, house
painting and decorating, sketching, etc. After two years of school life, while laboring to
gain funds in order that he might continue his schooling, he contracted from overwork and out-door
exposure a severe case of pneumonia that left his eyesight badly impaired and his constitution
in such condition that, to the present day, he has never fully recovered.

Air castles were tumbled and hopes blasted when his physician advised him that it would be
fatal to re-enter school for, at least, another year. Whereupon, seeking health and a means
of existence, starting from a point on the Mahoning river, he canoed with sketch and note book,
but alone, down stream a distance of more than five hundred miles. From this point, by train,
he embarked for the Ozark mountains in southwest Missouri. Here, for some months, while gradually
regaining his strength, he secured employment at farm work, sketching and painting at intervals.

Once more, he found himself on bed-rock, taking his last cent to pay express charges back to
Ohio on some finished pictures, but, this time, fortune smiled promptly with a good check by
return mail.

It was while in the Ozarks that Harold Bell Wright preached his first sermon. Being a regular
attendant at the services, held in the little mountain log school house, he was asked to talk
to the people, one Sunday, when the regular preacher had failed to appear.

From this Sunday morning talk, that could hardly be called a sermon, and others that followed,
he came to feel that he could do more good in the ministry than he could in any other field
of labor, and soon thereafter accepted a regular pastorate at Pierce City, Missouri, at a yearly
salary of four hundred dollars. True to a resolve, that his work should be that through which
he could help the most people, he had now chosen the ministry. A further resolve that he would
give up this ministry, chosen with such earnest conviction, should another field of labor offer
more extensive measures for reaching mankind, took him, in later years, into the field of literature.
He left the ministry with many regrets but with the same earnest conviction with which he had
earlier chosen it.

Following the publication of "The Shepherd of the Hills" his publishers assured him that he
could secure greater results from his pen rather than his pulpit and prevailed upon him to
henceforth make literature his life work. This was in every way consistent with his teaching
that every man's ministry is that work through which he can accomplish the greatest good.

In the battle of life there is always the higher ground that the many covet but few attain.
In reaching this height Mr. Wright has given to a multitude, his time, strength and substance,
that they, too, might further advance. He is companionable, loving and loyal to his friends.
He hates sham and hypocrisy and any attempt to glorify one's self by means other than the fruits
of one's own labor.

This boy, who, from the death of his mother, was driven into a hand to hand struggle with life
for a bare existence, was necessarily forced into contact with much that was vicious and corrupt.
But he in no way became a part of it. That same inherent love for mental cleanliness and spiritual
truths that has so distinguished the works of the man kept the boy unstained in his unfortunate
environment.

Mr. Wright resigned his charge at Pierce City for the larger work at Pittsburg, Kansas. In
the second year of his pastorate--1899--he married Frances E. Long in Buffalo, New York. This
union of love had its beginning back in the school days at Hiram. Unto them have been born
three sons, Gilbert Munger, 1901, Paul Williams, 1902, and Norman Hall, 1910.

In Pittsburg, Mr. Wright received enthusiastic support from his church people. Finances were
soon in a satisfactory condition, and church attendance reached the capacity of the building,
but still the young pastor was not satisfied. Pittsburg was a mining town, a young men's town.
A little city with saloons and brothels doing business on every hand. His soul was on fire
for his church to do a larger work and, with the hope of arousing his people, he conceived
the idea of writing "That Printer of Udell's," planning to read the story, by installments,
on special evenings of successive weeks, to his congregation.

Pittsburg was made the principal scene and the church of the story was the kind of church he
wanted his Pittsburg charge to be. The teachings set forth, through the preacher of the story,
in the latter half of the book, are the identical things the author was preaching. The first
chapters of the story are very largely colored by Mr. Wright's early life, but they are by
no means autobiographical.

"That Printer of Udell's" was written without thought or intention of offering it for publication.
During the author's ministry he made some of the warmest and most abiding friendships of his
life, and it was through certain of these friends that he was persuaded from reading the story,
as intended, but to offer it for publication, giving it, thus, a wider usefulness.

Having a leave of absence of several weeks from his church during the winter of 1901-2 he accepted
an invitation from the pastor of a Chicago church to hold a special meeting, and it was during
this meeting that the author and his publisher met for the first time. Mr. Wright delivered
a sermon entitled "Sculptors of Life" that was so impressive that I sought him out with entreaties
to repeat his sermon as a lecture to a certain company of young people.

The acquaintance thus begun very quickly became one of friendship, without any knowledge or
thought that it would in time lead to a co-operative life work, and when the author later offered
his book for publication it was without request or thought of financial remuneration. Mr. Wright,
however, was given a contract paying him the highest royalty that was being paid for any author's
first book.

"That Printer of Udell's" was written almost entirely in the late hours of the night and the
very early hours of the morning. Great demands were being made on the author's time in the
way of requests for officiating and speaking at public and civic functions in addition to the
now heavy requirements of his church. His aggressive activities, backed by his splendid spirit,
fearlessness and courage in combating the evils of his little city made for him a host of admirers,
alike, among his enemies and friends. When he left to accept a pastorate in Kansas City, Missouri,
his resignation was not accepted.

After one year in Kansas City he found that he was not physically able to carry out the great
city work as he had dreamed it and planned it, on a scale that would satisfy his longings for
service, and it made him seriously consider whether there was not some other way that would
more equally measure with his strength. He went again to the Ozarks, this time for rest and
meditation, and while there began writing "The Shepherd of the Hills." This Story has a peculiar
significance for the author. He feels toward it as he can not feel for any of his other books.
"The Shepherd of the Hills" was written as a test. The strength of the message he was able
to put into the story and the response it should find in the hearts of men and women was to
decide for him his ministry henceforth, whether he would teach the precepts of the Man of Galilee
by voice or pen. It was a testing time that bore fruit not only in this simple, sweet story,
that to quote an eminent divine, "is one of the greatest sermons of our day," but resulted
as well in the splendid volumes that have followed.

"The Shepherd of the Hills" was finished during the year of his pastorate at Lebanon, Missouri,
and but for the sympathy, encouragement and helpful understanding of his church officers and
membership, it is doubtful if the story could ever have been completed. When Mr. Wright delivered
the manuscript to his publishers the first of the year, 1907, for publication the next fall,
he had accepted the pastorate of the Christian Church in Redlands, California, hoping this
land of sunshine would give him a larger measure of health.

Some months later, resigning his Redlands pastorate, he went to the Imperial Valley and there,
the following year, wrote "The Calling of Dan Matthews." The church and its problems were weighing
on the author and affecting his life no less than when he was in the ministry and it was only
natural that he should give to the world "a picture that is true to the four corners of the
earth." Every incident in the story has its counterpart in real life and, with but few exceptions,
came under the author's personal observation. He did not get the real pleasure out of writing
"The Calling of Dan Matthews" that he did the story which preceded it. But he could not, try
as he would, escape it.

The publication of "The Calling of Dan Matthews" in the fall of 1909 was just two years after
the publication of "The Shepherd of the Hills."

"The Winning of Barbara Worth" required more time and effort in the collecting of material
than any book the author had written, but probably gave him, at least, as much pleasure. He
is very careful with regard to descriptive detail, and even while writing "The Calling of Dan
Matthews" he was making a study of the desert and this great reclamation project. Before sending
his manuscript for publication he had it checked over by the best engineers on the Pacific
coast for inaccuracies in any of his descriptions that involved engineering or reclamation
problems.

"The Winning of Barbara Worth" bears the distinction, without doubt, of being the only book
ever published that called its publisher and illustrator from a distance of two and three thousand
miles, into the heart of a great desert, for a consultation with its author. This story of
the Imperial Valley and its reclamation was written in the same study as was "The Calling of
Dan Matthews." A study of rude construction, about eighteen by thirty-five feet, with thatched
roof and outside covering of native arrow-weed and built entirely by the author himself.

When Mr. Wright finished "The Winning of Barbara Worth"--so named in honor of Ruth Barbara
Reynolds--he was a sick man. He often worked the night through, overtaxing his nerve and strength.
For several months he virtually dwelt within the four walls of his study and for a time it
was feared he would not live to finish the book. He wrote the last chapters while confined
to his bed, after which he was taken by easy stages, through the kindness of friends, to that
part of Northern Arizona that is so delightful to all lovers of the out-of-doors. In this bracing
mile-high atmosphere he soon grew well and strong, almost to ruggedness, and on the day his
book was published he was riding in a wild-horse chase over a country wild and rough where
the writer of this sketch would only care to go, carefully picking his way, on foot. So it
was weeks after publication before the author saw the first bound copy of his book. During
these summer and fall months, while regaining his strength, he was busy with sketch and note
book collecting material, for this part of Arizona is the scene of his novel "When a Man's a Man."

"Their Yesterdays" was written in Tucson, Arizona, and was published in the fall of 1912, just
one year after the publication of "The Winning of Barbara Worth." In order to write this story,
with the least possible strain on his nerves and vitality, Mr. Wright secluded himself in a
little cottage purchased especially for this work. His material was collected from the observations
of his thoughtful years and his intimate knowledge of human hearts. This book is, perhaps,
more representative of the real Harold Bell Wright than anything he has done. It is the true
presentation of his views on life, love and religion. I once asked Mr. Wright, in behalf of
the faculty, to deliver an address to a graduating class of some twenty-odd young men of the
Morgan Park Academy (Chicago). He was very busy and I suggested that without special effort
he make the commonplace remarks that one so often hears on like occasions. For the first time
that I remember he somewhat impatiently resented a suggestion from me, saying "These young
men are on the threshold of life and the very best that is within me is due to them. I can
give to them only such a message as I would, were I to stand before judgment on the morrow."
It was with just this spirit that the author wrote "Their Yesterdays."

Following "Their Yesterdays" the next book in order of publication was "The Eyes of the World,"
published in the fall of 1914. It was written in the same arrow-weed study on Tecolote Rancho
in the Imperial Valley where he wrote "The Calling of Dan Matthews" and "The Winning of Barbara
Worth." Being fully in sympathy with the author's purpose in writing this story, the campaign
of advertising was of such educational character and so eventful in many ways, that it will
long be remembered by authors, publishers and reading public, and, we trust, make for cleaner
books and pictures.

As it was in the writing of "The Calling of Dan Matthews" so it was in the writing of "The
Eyes of the World," the sense of duty stood highest. The modern trend in books and music and
art and drama had so incensed the author that "The Eyes of the World" was the result of his
all impelling desire for cleaner living and thinking. As is true of all writers, there are
sometimes those who fail to catch the message in Mr. Wright's books. He is occasionally misunderstood,
and that was especially true with "The Eyes of the World." To the great majority of people,
clean living and thinking, the message was not to be misinterpreted and to them the book is
blessed. To that small minority it was convicting and, from a few such, it brought forth condemnation
which, in a fellow author here and there, was pronounced and emphasized by envy and jealousy.
To critics of this class Mr. Wright makes no reply and is not in the least disturbed.

"The Uncrowned King," a small volume--an allegory--published in 1910, to me, is one of the
most delightful of Mr. Wright's books. Possibly, it has an added charm because of certain peculiar
conditions. It was written in Redlands, California, during the winter of 1909-10, although
the notion for the little volume occurred to the author while living in Kansas City. It was
one of those times when the longing and will to do a work greater than the physical would permit
seemed almost overpowering when, unconsciously coming to his aid, a young woman talking to
a company of Christian Endeavorers chanced to remark, "After all, the real kings of earth are
seldom crowned." All through the evening service thoughts that this inspired kept running through
the author's mind and late that same night he wrote the outline which was only completed some
years later and given to his publishers to enrich the world.

His first four novels in order of publication have been dramatized and enjoyed by thousands
from before the footlights and it has been a delight to renew acquaintances with old friends
in this way. It remained for "The Eyes of the World" to be the first of his books to be presented
in a feature production of motion pictures.

The likes and dislikes of Harold Bell Wright are quite pronounced. He is unpretending, cares
not for the lime-light and avoids interviews for the public press. Loud, boisterous conversation
is but little less offensive to him than vulgarity in speech or action. His friends are strong,
clean-minded men who are doing things in the world and are as necessary to his being as the
air to his existence, and his generosity to them is no less marked than his caring and providing
for his family, which is almost a passion. He is extremely fond of most forms of out-door life.
The desert with its vast expanse, fierce solitude and varied colors is no less attractive to
him than the peaceful quiet of wooded dells, the beauty of flowering meadows or the rugged
mountains with their roaring trout streams that furnish him hours of sport with rod and line.
He enjoys hunting, horse-back riding or long tramps afoot. But when there is work to be done
it is the one thing that bulks largest and all else must wait.

After finishing "The Eyes of the World," Mr. Wright embarked on the building of a home in the
Santa Monica mountains near Hollywood, California. So in the summer of 1915 the little family
of five began making their residence in the new canyon home, one of nature's delightful spots.

Then again, the author went into camp in the Arizona desert while writing "When a Man's a Man."
For he finds it very helpful to live in the atmosphere of his story while doing the actual
writing and he also avoids frequent interruption. I think he got more real enjoyment out of
this story than any he has previously done. It is a story of the out-of-doors in this great
unfenced land where a man must be a man. I suppose, too, he enjoyed writing this work so much,
partly, because it comes so easy for him to just tell a story without the intervention of some
nerve racking problem. The only book he has heretofore written that is purely a story is "The
Shepherd of the Hills," and I sometimes wonder to what proportion of his readers does this
Ozark story hold first place. For all such, I am sure, "When a Man's a Man" will find a reception
of special heartiness because it is just a fine, big, wholesome novel of simple sweetness and
virile strength.

I have written this sketch of Harold Bell Wright that you may know him as intimately, if possible,
as if you had met him in person. But should you have the opportunity of making his acquaintance
do not deny yourself the pleasure. If you are a lover of his books I am sure you are just the
kind of person that the author himself delights to meet.

"Relay Heights," February 15, 1916.

