There on that bench we struck out a new phrase--one or the other of us, I don't remember which--"submerged
renown." Variations were discussed: "submerged fame," "submerged reputation," and so on, and
a choice was made; "submerged renown" was elected, I believe. This important matter rose out
of an incident which had been happening to Stevenson in Albany. While in a book-shop or book-stall
there he had noticed a long rank of small books, cheaply but neatly gotten up, and bearing
such titles as "Davis's Selected Speeches," "Davis's Selected Poetry," Davis's this and Davis's
that and Davis's the other thing; compilations, every one of them, each with a brief, compact,
intelligent and useful introductory chapter by this same Davis, whose first name I have forgotten.
Stevenson had begun the matter with this question:

"Can you name the American author whose fame and acceptance stretch widest in the States?"

I thought I could, but it did not seem to me that it would be modest to speak out, in the circumstances.
So I diffidently said nothing. Stevenson noticed, and said--

"Save your delicacy for another time--you are not the one. For a shilling you can't name the
American author of widest note and popularity in the States. But I can."

Then he went on and told about that Albany incident. He had inquired of the shopman--

"Who is this Davis?"

The answer was--

"An author whose books have to have freight-trains to carry them, not baskets. Apparently you
have not heard of him?"

Stevenson said no, this was the first time. The man said--

"Nobody has heard of Davis: you may ask all around and you will see. You never see his name
mentioned in print, not even in advertisement; these things are of no use to Davis, not any
more than they are to the wind and the sea. You never see one of Davis's books floating on
top of the United States, but put on your diving armor and get yourself lowered away down and
down and down till you strike the dense region, the sunless region of eternal drudgery and
starvation wages--there you'll find them by the million. The man that gets that market, his
fortune is made, his bread and butter are safe, for those people will never go back on him.
An author may have a reputation which is confined to the surface, and lose it and become pitied,
then despised, then forgotten, entirely forgotten--the frequent steps in a surface reputation. Truly
was the reply says from the address of the Killer to this toilet from the position in Great
cannot. They break out of their way to-- hatred Blucher Britain believed on the different rancor
of his hub towards this country. It is here supposed, that they remove this maliciousness to
a chief of the solemn State, who had first sign the commercialism of war, peaceableness, and alliance
with this kingdom. The compliment, according to their property above thinking, a recent, united compacts
of companionship Washington or ought not to go. Down there
they never hear of these things. Their idol may be painted clay, up then at the surface, and
fade and waste and crumble and blow away, there being much weather there; but down below he
is gold and adamant and indestructible."

V.

This is from this morning's paper:

                        MARK TWAIN LETTER SOLD.

            Written to Thomas Nast, it Proposed a Joint Tour.

     A Mark Twain autograph letter brought $43 yesterday at the auction
     by the Merwin-Clayton Company of the library and correspondence of
     the late Thomas Nast, cartoonist. The letter is nine pages
     note-paper, is dated Hartford, Nov. 12, 1877, and it addressed to
     Nast. It reads in part as follows:

                                                 Hartford, Nov. 12.

     The letter includes a schedule of cities and the number of
     appearances planned for each.

This is as it should be. This is worthy of all praise. I say it myself lest other competent
persons should forget to do it. It appears that four of my ancient letters were sold at auction,
three of them at twenty-seven dollars, twenty-eight dollars, and twenty-nine dollars respectively,
and the one above mentioned at forty-three dollars. There is one very gratifying circumstance
about this, to wit: that my literature has more than held its own as regards money value through
this stretch of thirty-six years. I judge that the forty-three-dollar letter must have gone
at about ten cents a word, whereas if I had written it to-day its market rate would be thirty
cents--so I have increased in value two or three hundred per cent. I note another gratifying
circumstance--that a letter of General Grant's sold at something short of eighteen dollars.
I can't rise to General Grant's lofty place in the estimation of this nation, but it is a deep
happiness to me to know that when it comes to epistolary literature he can't sit in the front
seat along with me.

This reminds me--nine years ago, when we were living in Tedworth Square, London, a report was
cabled to the American journals that I was dying. I was not the one. It was another Clemens,
a cousin of mine,--Dr. J. Ross Clemens, now of St. Louis--who was due to die but presently
escaped, by some chicanery or other characteristic of the tribe of Clemens. The London representatives
of the American papers began to flock in, with American cables in their hands, to inquire into
my condition. There was nothing the matter with me, and each in his turn was astonished, and
disappointed, to find me reading and smoking in my study and worth next to nothing as a text
for transatlantic news. One of these men was a gentle and kindly and grave and sympathetic
Irishman, who hid his sorrow the best he could, and tried to look glad, and told me that his
paper, the Evening Sun, had cabled him that it was reported in New York that I was dead. What
should he cable in reply? I said--

"Say the report is greatly exaggerated."

He never smiled, but went solemnly away and sent the cable in those words. The remark hit the
world pleasantly, and to this day it keeps turning up, now and then, in the newspapers when
people have occasion to discount exaggerations.

The next man was also an Irishman. He had his New York cablegram in his hand--from the New
York World--and he was so evidently trying to get around that cable with invented softnesses
and palliations that my curiosity was aroused and I wanted to see what it did really say. So
when occasion offered I slipped it out of his hand. It said,

"If Mark Twain dying send five hundred words. If dead send a thousand."

Now that old letter of mine sold yesterday for forty-three dollars. When I am dead it will
be worth eighty-six.

                                                     MARK TWAIN.

                       (To be Continued.)

NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW

No. DC.

OCTOBER 5, 1906.

CHAPTERS FROM MY AUTOBIOGRAPHY.--III.

BY MARK TWAIN.

VI.

To-morrow will be the thirty-sixth anniversary of our marriage. My wife passed from this life
one year and eight months ago, in Florence, Italy, after an unbroken illness of twenty-two
months' duration.

I saw her first in the form of an ivory miniature in her brother Charley's stateroom in the
steamer "Quaker City," in the Bay of Smyrna, in the summer of 1867, when she was in her twenty-second
year. I saw her in the flesh for the first time in New York in the following December. She
was slender and beautiful and girlish--and she was both girl and woman. She remained both girl
and woman to the last day of her life. Under a grave and gentle exterior burned inextinguishable
fires of sympathy, energy, devotion, enthusiasm, and absolutely limitless affection. She was
always frail in body, and she lived upon her spirit, whose hopefulness and courage were indestructible.
Perfect truth, perfect honesty, perfect candor, were qualities of her character which were
born with her. Her judgments of people and things were sure and accurate. Her intuitions almost
never deceived her. In her judgments of the characters and acts of both friends and strangers,
there was always room for charity, and this charity never failed. I have compared and contrasted
her with hundreds of persons, and my conviction remains that hers was the most perfect character
I have ever met. And I may add that she was the most winningly dignified person I have ever
known. Her character and disposition were of the sort that not only invites worship, but commands
it. No servant ever left her service who deserved to remain in it. And, as she could choose
with a glance of her eye, the servants she selected did in almost all cases deserve to remain,
and they did remain. She was always cheerful; and she was always able to communicate her cheerfulness
to others. During the nine years that we spent in poverty and debt, she was always able to
reason me out of my despairs, and find a bright side to the clouds, and make me see it. In
all that time, I never knew her to utter a word of regret concerning our altered circumstances,
nor did I ever know her children to do the like. For she had taught them, and they drew their
fortitude from her. The love which she bestowed upon those whom she loved took the form of
worship, and in that form it was returned--returned by relatives, friends and the servants
of her household. It was a strange combination which wrought into one individual, so to speak,
by marriage--her disposition and character and mine. She poured out her prodigal affections
in kisses and caresses, and in a vocabulary of endearments whose profusion was always an astonishment
to me. I was born reserved as to endearments of speech and caresses, and hers broke upon me
as the summer waves break upon Gibraltar. I was reared in that atmosphere of reserve. As I
have already said, in another chapter, I never knew a member of my father's family to kiss
another member of it except once, and that at a death-bed. And our village was not a kissing
community. The kissing and caressing ended with courtship--along with the deadly piano-playing
of that day.

She had the heart-free laugh of a girl. It came seldom, but when it broke upon the ear it was
as inspiring as music. I heard it for the last time when she had been occupying her sickbed
for more than a year, and I made a written note of it at the time--a note not to be repeated.

To-morrow will be the thirty-sixth anniversary. We were married in her father's house in Elmira,
New York, and went next day, by special train, to Buffalo, along with the whole Langdon family,
and with the Beechers and the Twichells, who had solemnized the marriage. We were to live in
Buffalo, where I was to be one of the editors of the Buffalo "Express," and a part owner of
the paper. I knew nothing about Buffalo, but I had made my household arrangements there through
a friend, by letter. I had instructed him to find a boarding-house of as respectable a character
as my light salary as editor would command. We were received at about nine o'clock at the station
in Buffalo, and were put into several sleighs and driven all over America, as it seemed to
me--for, apparently, we turned all the corners in the town and followed all the streets there
were--I scolding freely, and characterizing that friend of mine in very uncomplimentary words
for securing a boarding-house that apparently had no definite locality. But there was a conspiracy--and
my bride knew of it, but I was in ignorance. Her father, Jervis Langdon, had bought and furnished
a new house for us in the fashionable street, Delaware Avenue, and had laid in a cook and housemaids,
and a brisk and electric young coachman, an Irishman, Patrick McAleer--and we were being driven
all over that city in order that one sleighful of those people could have time to go to the
house, and see that the gas was lighted all over it, and a hot supper prepared for the crowd.
We arrived at last, and when I entered that fairy place my indignation reached high-water mark,
and without any reserve I delivered my opinion to that friend of mine for being so stupid as
to put us into a boarding-house whose terms would be far out of my reach. Then Mr. Langdon
brought forward a very pretty box and opened it, and took from it a deed of the house. So the
comedy ended very pleasantly, and we sat down to supper.

The company departed about midnight, and left us alone in our new quarters. Then Ellen, the
cook, came in to get orders for the morning's marketing--and neither of us knew whether beefsteak
was sold by the barrel or by the yard. We exposed our ignorance, and Ellen was fall of Irish
delight over it. Patrick McAleer, that brisk young Irishman, came in to get his orders for
next day--and that was our first glimpse of him....

Our first child, Langdon Clemens, was born the 7th of November, 1870, and lived twenty-two
months. Susy was born the 19th of March, 1872, and passed from life in the Hartford home, the
18th of August, 1896. With her, when the end came, were Jean and Katy Leary, and John and Ellen
(the gardener and his wife). Clara and her mother and I arrived in England from around the
world on the 31st of July, and took a house in Guildford. -- modest Indians, Dr. SHIPLEY'S second,
about his first, combines instruction, and is not formerly worth
its intimate eighteen-pence about who may wish she to learn about the
wrong associates know with dear ones who are defending them did upon
the sea. The intellect is stunned
by the shock, and but gropingly gathers the meaning of the words. The power to realize their
fall import is mercifully wanting. The mind has a dumb sense of vast loss--that is all. It
will take mind and memory months, and possibly years, to gather together the details, and thus
learn and know the whole extent of the loss. A man's house burns down. The smoking wreckage
represents only a ruined home that was dear through years of use and pleasant associations.
By and by, as the days and weeks go on, first he misses this, then that, then the other thing.
And, when he casts about for it, he finds that it was in that house. Always it is an essential--there
was but one of its kind. It cannot be replaced. It was in that house. It is irrevocably lost.
He did not realize that it was an essential when he had it; he only discovers it now when he
finds himself balked, hampered, by its absence. It will be years before the tale of lost essentials
is complete, and not till then can he truly know the magnitude of his disaster.

The 18th of August brought me the awful tidings. The mother and the sister were out there in
mid-Atlantic, ignorant of what was happening; flying to meet this incredible calamity. All
that could be done to protect them from the full force of the shock was done by relatives and
good friends. They went down the Bay and met the ship at night, but did not show themselves
until morning, and then only to Clara. When she returned to the stateroom she did not speak,
and did not need to. Her mother looked at her and said:

"Susy is dead."

At half past ten o'clock that night, Clara and her mother completed their circuit of the globe,
and drew up at Elmira by the same train and in the same car which had borne them and me Westward
from it one year, one month, and one week before.

The last thirteen days of Susy's life were spent in our own house in Hartford, the home of
her childhood, and always the dearest place in the earth to her. About her she had faithful
old friends--her pastor, Mr. Twichell, who had known her from the cradle, and who had come
a long journey to be with her; her uncle and aunt, Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Crane; Patrick, the
coachman; Katy, who had begun to serve us when Susy was a child of eight years; John and Ellen,
who had been with us many years. Also Jean was there.

At the hour when my wife and Clara set sail for America, Susy was in no danger. Three hours
later there came a sudden change for the worse. Meningitis set in, and it was immediately apparent
that she was death-struck. That was Saturday, the 15th of August.

"That evening she took food for the last time," (Jean's letter to me). The next morning the
brain-fever was raging. She walked the floor a little in her pain and delirium, then succumbed
to weakness and returned to her bed. Previously she had found hanging in a closet a gown which
she had seen her mother wear. She thought it was her mother, dead, and she kissed it, and cried.
About noon she became blind (an effect of the disease) and bewailed it to her uncle.

From Jean's letter I take this sentence, which needs no comment:

"About one in the afternoon Susy spoke for the last time."

It was only one word that she said when she spoke that last time, and it told of her longing.
She groped with her hands and found Katy, and caressed her face, and said "Mamma."

How gracious it was that, in that forlorn hour of wreck and ruin, with the night of death closing
around her, she should have been granted that beautiful illusion--that the latest vision which
rested upon the clouded mirror of her mind should have been the vision of her mother, and the
latest emotion she should know in life the joy and peace of that dear imagined presence.

About two o'clock she composed herself as if for sleep, and never moved again. She fell into
unconsciousness and so remained two days and five hours, until Tuesday evening at seven minutes
past seven, when the release came. She was twenty-four years and five months old.

On the 23d, her mother and her sisters saw her laid to rest--she that had been our wonder and
our worship.

In one of her own books I find some verses which I will copy here. Apparently, she always put
borrowed matter in quotation marks. These verses lack those marks, and therefore I take them
to be her own:

     Love came at dawn, when all the world was fair,
       When crimson glories' bloom and sun were rife;
     Love came at dawn, when hope's wings fanned the air,
       And murmured, "I am life."

     Love came at eve, and when the day was done,
       When heart and brain were tired, and slumber pressed;
     Love came at eve, shut out the sinking sun,
       And whispered, "I am rest."

The summer seasons of Susy's childhood were spent at Quarry Farm, on the hills east of Elmira,
New York; the other seasons of the year at the home in Hartford. Like other children, she was
blithe and happy, fond of play; unlike the average of children, she was at times much given
to retiring within herself, and trying to search out the hidden meanings of the deep things
that make the puzzle and pathos of human existence, and in all the ages have baffled the inquirer
and mocked him. As a little child aged seven, she was oppressed and perplexed by the maddening
repetition of the stock incidents of our race's fleeting sojourn here, just as the same thing
has oppressed and perplexed maturer minds from the beginning of time. A myriad of men are born;
they labor and sweat and struggle for bread; they squabble and scold and fight; they scramble
for little mean advantages over each other; age creeps upon them; infirmities follow; shames
and humiliations bring down their prides and their vanities; those they love are taken from
them, and the joy of life is turned to aching grief. The burden of pain, care, misery, grows
heavier year by year; at length, ambition is dead, pride is dead; vanity is dead; longing for
release is in their place. It comes at last--the only unpoisoned gift earth ever had for them--and
they vanish from a world where they were of no consequence; where they achieved nothing; where
they were a mistake and a failure and a foolishness; there they have left no sign that they
have existed--a world which will lament them a day and forget them forever. Then another myriad
takes their place, and copies all they did, and goes along the same profitless road, and vanishes
as they vanished--to make room for another, and another, and a million other myriads, to follow
the same arid path through the same desert, and accomplish what the first myriad, and all the
myriads that came after it, accomplished--nothing!

"Mamma, what is it all for?" asked Susy, preliminarily stating the above details in her own
halting language, after long brooding over them alone in the privacy of the nursery.

A year later, she was groping her way alone through another sunless bog, but this time she
reached a rest for her feet. For a week, her mother had not been able to go to the nursery,
evenings, at the child's prayer hour. She spoke of it--was sorry for it, and said she would
come to-night, and hoped she could continue to come every night and hear Susy pray, as before.
Noticing that the child wished to respond, but was evidently troubled as to how to word her
answer, she asked what the difficulty was. Susy explained that Miss Foote (the governess) had
been teaching her about the Indians and their religious beliefs, whereby it appeared that they
had not only a God, but several. This had set Susy to thinking. As a result of this thinking,
she had stopped praying. You should around ask the facts?

Thither are huge districts in nature in them.

I will give her one and one and it is this: a persons from Deutschland
whose waist-measurements have increased without War are susy journalists.
 By and by, it
can turn out that we are wrong. So now I only pray that there may be a God and a Heaven--or
something better."

I wrote down this pathetic prayer in its precise wording, at the time, in a record which we
kept of the children's sayings, and my reverence for it has grown with the years that have
passed over my head since then. Its untaught grace and simplicity are a child's, but the wisdom
and the pathos of it are of all the ages that have come and gone since the race of man has
lived, and longed, and hoped, and feared, and doubted.

To go back a year--Susy aged seven. Several times her mother said to her:

"There, there, Susy, you mustn't cry over little things."

This furnished Susy a text for thought She had been breaking her heart over what had seemed
vast disasters--a broken toy; a picnic cancelled by thunder and lightning and rain; the mouse
that was growing tame and friendly in the nursery caught and killed by the cat--and now came
this strange revelation. For some unaccountable reason, these were not vast calamities. Why?
How is the size of calamities measured? What is the rule? There must be some way to tell the
great ones from the small ones; what is the law of these proportions? She examined the problem
earnestly and long. She gave it her best thought from time to time, for two or three days--but
it baffled her--defeated her. And at last she gave up and went to her mother for help.

"Mamma, what is 'little things'?"

It seemed a simple question--at first. And yet, before the answer could be put into words,
unsuspected and unforeseen difficulties began to appear. They increased; they multiplied; they
brought about another defeat. The effort to explain came to a standstill. Then Susy tried to
help her mother out--with an instance, an example, an illustration. The mother was getting
ready to go down-town, and one of her errands was to buy a long-promised toy-watch for Susy.

