"Besides," he proceeded, "we have small portable electric engines, with which water from the
trenches can be distributed in the form of spray over wide areas. Our vegetation, too, has
adapted itself to the conditions of the planet in the course of the changes which have taken
place during past ages, and now requires very little water or moisture to maintain it in vigorous
and healthy growth."

One more question was put to him by John, who asked, "Do these canals constitute your whole
supply of water for drinking, as well as for all other purposes?"

"Oh no, John!" exclaimed Merna. "We draw all our pure water from deep wells. The soil of Mars,
being much more lightly compacted than that of the earth, has absorbed an immense proportion
of the water which was formerly upon its surface. Instead of having lost it by evaporation
and radiation into space, we still have it below the surface, stored up ready for use in our
time of need.

"For this reason, and also in consequence of the small amount of our planet's internal heat,
the water has not undergone chemical change, and mostly lies at great depths; but, of course,
well-boring is much easier work than on your world, and I expect our methods are rather in
advance of yours.

"Your scientists seem to have overlooked some of these points altogether. You need not pity
us for lack of water, as I have heard you doing, for we have an ample supply for many centuries
to come; especially as we can purify water which has been used for general purposes, and store
it up for use, over and over again. Our canals are only drawn upon for purposes connected with
irrigation, or when absolutely pure water is not needed."

"Well," M'Allister exclaimed, "it doesn't seem that the Martians are so badly off for water
as some of our clever people imagine! Why, I've read that the need of water here must be so
great that the people, driven to desperation, must be fighting each other to extermination
in order to get it."

"That is an entirely erroneous idea, sir," replied Merna; "and you may be quite sure that such
a state of affairs will never be witnessed upon this planet. We know the time must come when
our water supply will cease to be, but your people are needlessly pessimistic, and imagine
terrors where we see none.

"In actual time, the end of Mars is still far distant; but, as compared with that of your world,
it is very near. It will be possible, later on, to forecast, by means of our records of the
rate of decrease, the time when our water supply will come to an end; but even now it is well
understood how the crisis will be met. As the final period draws nearer, families will become
smaller and smaller, and in the last Martian century no children will be born; so the diminishing
water supply will suffice for the needs of the dwindling population. Thus the race will gradually
die out naturally, and become extinct long before the conditions of our world can make life
a terror. There will, therefore, be no self-slaughter, nor murderous extermination, amongst
ourselves--we shall simply die out naturally.

"The planet will roll on, devoid of all life, so the loss of water and air will then be of
no consequence. It will be a dead world; until, perhaps æons hence, a collision with some other
large body may transform both into a nebula; and thus once more start them on the way to develop
into a world capable of sustaining life. Thus nothing in the Universe really dies; the apparent
death is only the preparation for a newer and higher life.

"We Martians have no fear or dread of death, such as I have heard you say is so prevalent in
your world even amongst religious people. With us death, in the ordinary way, is merely like
going to sleep; and it is only the portal through which we pass to another life on another
planet. Why, then, should we dread it? It is simply a removal to another dwelling-place!"

"I quite agree with that view, Merna," said John; "and our religion teaches us a somewhat similar
idea; yet few of its professors look forward with anything but dread to the time when they
must pass from their present life."

"Yes, John," said Merna. "What your people really only profess to believe we Martians accept
as an actual certainty, for we know it is so; and, as you are aware, sir, I am a living witness
of the truth of what I say.

"You know I once lived upon the earth. I died; or, as I prefer to say, I 'passed' from thence,
and was born again upon Mars. Some day I must also pass from here; whither I know not, but
to another life in some other world; and the Great Father of All will provide for me!

"There are many other planets which are worlds capable of sustaining life at the present time,
or which will develop into such worlds. Some of them, which we can see, are planets belonging
to our own solar system, but doubtless there are myriads of planets which revolve round those
millions of distant suns which we call fixed stars. If we have made good use of our talents
and opportunities for development we shall no doubt pass to a world where that development
may be continued on a higher plane. If, however, we have made bad use of them, it is possible
that we may have to purge ourselves by a life on a planet where the conditions are the reverse
of pleasant; and so on through eternity, each rising to a higher and higher plane according
to the manner in which he has worked out his own salvation.

"Amongst those myriads of planets, probably there is not one which is identical in all respects
with any other, and there must be an infinity of variety; some excelling to an incalculable
extent the conditions of our present world, and others where the conditions are very much worse!"

"Yes, Merna," I replied. "There are some upon our world who hold very similar ideas, notably
a great French astronomer named Flammarion; but in his view only those who have developed their
intelligence in the proper direction will pass to other worlds and enjoy what he terms the
Uranian life.

"I may also say," I proceeded, "with reference to your remarks respecting the infinite variety
of planetary worlds and of their conditions, that one of our great poets has stated the matter
very logically, for he says:

  'This truth within thy mind rehearse,
  That, in a boundless universe,
  Is boundless better, boundless worse.'"

"Sir," said Merna, "that is really very much as a Martian would state the case; and what I
have told you is our faith, our hope, and our certainty."

As we passed along on the area outside the grove we noticed that the vegetation bordering the
outermost canal did not show a mathematically straight edge as the canal lines do when seen
by us through our telescopes. The edges, as a rule, were very irregular: in some places there
were large areas of fallow land, and others were very sparsely covered with vegetation.

John remarked that if any of these bare or sparsely-covered places were large enough to be
detected by our telescopes, in moments of extremely good seeing, we should no doubt be told
that they afforded absolute proof that the canal lines are only disconnected markings, and
the canals a myth.

"Very probably," I replied; "yet it should be obvious that vegetation would be sparse, or altogether
absent, perhaps, for miles, in many places along the thousands of miles over which the canals
extend, and also that it is quite likely, if we could use higher powers so as to get a better
view of the lines, the edges would appear irregular. Nature is rarely symmetrical in her work,
there is nearly always irregularity of growth; and in artificial cultivation it is neither
possible nor desirable to fill up every acre of land simultaneously."

Merna then told us that, owing to extensions of their irrigation system, laterally, and the
consequent growth of vegetation, the width of many of the canal lines would be seen to increase.

"Yes," said John, "and when that phenomenon is seen by our observers we shall be informed that
such increase in width is still another proof that there are no canals upon Mars."

"Well, John," replied Merna, "it seems to me very strange that your people should so misinterpret
the meaning of such indications. Do you really think such a contention would be put forward?"

"I'm quite sure of it," said John; "and we should be told that canals could not increase in
width! Don't you agree with me, Professor?"

"Yes, John," I answered; "I have seen and heard so many contentions and arguments of a like
nature that I cannot say your supposition is not justified.

"I may, however, point out that it is only when the most ideal conditions of seeing exist that
we can ever hope to secure a view of the canal lines showing the apparent breaks in their continuity.
I have on a previous occasion alluded to the drawbacks connected with the use of very large
telescopes, and it may be well to sound a note of warning, for it would be very easy for an
observer to be deceived by an illusory appearance of the breaking up of the canal lines into
a series of scattered markings. This effect would undoubtedly occur in using a very large telescope
in any but ideally favourable atmospheric conditions, for the high powers used with such large
instruments would so exaggerate the most minute atmospheric tremors that any lines on the Martian
surface would inevitably appear broken up, and an erroneous deduction might be drawn by the
unwary observer. If well seen, the canal vegetation would appear as separate markings in alignment,
but no telescope is ever likely to define well enough to show the actual canals, because they
are so narrow."

We now returned to our air-ship, and went back to Sirapion; where, after making the necessary
changes and preparations, we accompanied Merna to the City Hall, for the purpose of attending
the banquet to which we had been invited by Soranho.

CHAPTER XVIII

WE ATTEND A MARTIAN BANQUET

On our arrival at the banqueting-hall we were most cordially received by Soranho, as Chief
of the Council, who introduced us to a number of persons, several of whom were high officers
of state; but, as only two or three of them knew anything of our language, Merna had to act
as interpreter. All of them, however, appeared genuinely pleased to meet us.

The hall was a large and very fine one, most chastely decorated in a style which reminded one
of the Etruscan. It was beautifully lighted by artificial means, but there were no visible
lamps, the light being diffused over the hall as equally as daylight is diffused.

Many ladies were present, and clearly on entirely equal terms with the sterner sex. They sat
down with us at the banquet, and did not remain mere spectators from a distance, as is sometimes
the case at our public functions. The dresses of both sexes were very neat, and although there
was a more ample and varied display of colour and ornament than is usual in a similar gathering
upon our world, especially in the dresses of the males, it was always harmonious and in excellent
taste. The costumes reminded me of those in vogue in the south-eastern parts of Europe; the
ladies, however, wore rather close-fitting long hose, and no skirts; but their tunics were
somewhat longer than those worn by the men, and of thinner material. Many of the dresses looked
as though they were woven from semi-transparent shining silver or gold. This style of dress
was most becoming to the wearers, setting off their elegant proportions, and at the same time
permitting the utmost freedom and grace of movement. Jewellery was clearly only used as a medium
for adding to the brilliancy of the general effect, and I saw no one with any lavish or vulgar
display of jewels.

Our meal was very similar in character to that of which we had partaken on the previous day,
though on a more extended and elaborate scale. This time, however, we partook of the delicious
wines which were provided, and found that whilst being most refreshing and exhilarating, they
were, as Merna told us, so prepared as to be non-intoxicating. They were indeed so fine in
quality and flavour that, I think, even M'Allister was reconciled to the absence of his own
favourite drink.

I occupied a seat of honour next to Soranho, and my two friends were close by. On looking round
the hall, and scanning the features of the different individuals present, I was much impressed
by the fact that the same regularity, beauty, and symmetry was apparent in all; not one face
could be termed "plain," or gave any impression of self-indulgence or sensuality; whilst the
soft glowing light in their eyes produced a most indescribable and charming effect upon the
whole of their features.

This light is altogether different from the fierce glare seen in the eyes of many of our animals,
especially the feline race, which seems to enlarge the eyes to enormous orbs of brilliant light.
In the Martians it is simply a colourless, soft, and liquid glow which has a different effect
on eyes of different colours; but it is charming in all.

Merna had introduced us to a lady named Eleeta, who sat next to him at the table; and it did
not require a Martian intuition to enable me quickly to perceive that the relations in which
they regarded each other were something beyond those of ordinary friendship. Their glowing
eyes and beaming countenances, and their general animation and exhilaration as they conversed
together, told their own tale, for mutual love has much the same indications and attributes
everywhere--even upon Mars! But the love-light shining in Martian eyes is something far more
entrancing than that seen in the duller orbs of the inhabitants of our world.

The people of Mars generally have dark hair, dark eyes, and fresh-coloured complexions; the
males having no hair upon their faces, beyond a slight moustache. Beards never grow upon their
chins, so they have no need to shave, and are spared the work which wastes so much of the time
of terrestrials. If we could only count up the time spent in shaving, during fifty years or
so, we should find that we have devoted several whole months to that tiresome operation.

Only a few individuals present had light hair and light-coloured eyes, and Eleeta was one of
these. She was a most charming and beautiful girl--vivacious, and evidently very intellectual;
and I thought that she and Merna would make a most well-matched pair.

The banquet proved an extremely pleasant and sociable function; and, when it was over, the
company adjourned to another hall opening out of the banqueting-hall, where they split up into
separate groups, and conversation soon became very animated.

On inquiring of Merna, I was informed that music is never performed on such occasions as these,
during conversational periods, as it is considered a desecration of a high and noble art.

Merna introduced John and M'Allister to one of the chief engineers of the canal department,
who knew a little English, and soon they were discussing with eager interest a collection of
pictures and drawings of the machinery. Seeing that our friends were thus congenially occupied,
Merna then took me across to where Eleeta and a girl friend of hers, named Siloni, were sitting.

He told me he had instructed Eleeta in English and she had passed on her knowledge of the language
to Siloni; so we were all able to converse together with the occasional aid of Merna's interpretation.

Merna had also acquainted his friends with our usual terms of addressing one another, and it
came almost as a surprise to me to be addressed by the Martians as "Mr. Poynders" and "Sir";
for I had become so accustomed to being called "Professor" by my two colleagues that my own
name sounded almost strange to me.

We had been chatting together only a short time when John and M'Allister, with their Martian
friend, the engineer, came over to us; and soon after that we were joined by Soranho and Merna's
tutors, named respectively Corontus and Tellurio, who were followed by a numerous company of
Martians of both sexes.

Soranho, addressing me, then said, "Mr. Poynders, I should very much like to know something
about terrestrial affairs generally, especially in regard to the methods of government amongst
your nations, and the social conditions of the people; and shall therefore be glad if you will
be good enough to give me any particulars that may be of interest in connection with these
subjects."

He then took a seat, with the tutors on either side of him; and he added that the Martians
had not been able to acquire any definite information upon the matters to which he referred,
but they knew our people were not so far advanced as the Martians, and he did not therefore
expect too much of the terrestrials.

I told him I would endeavour to enlighten him upon these subjects so far as lay in my power;
and, as I rose to speak, the general body of the Martians seated themselves a few feet away
from us in a large semicircle facing the chief.

I noticed that, against the wall behind the Chief, was a group of beautifully embroidered banners
representing the planets, and that those depicting Mars and the Earth were placed in the central
positions. These two banners exhibited very graphic representations of the markings on the
respective planets. However, the position had to be faced; so as clearly and concisely as I
could I explained to them our various systems of government--our political systems and our
social conditions; mentioning in connection with the latter the extremes of wealth and the
extremes of poverty which often existed side by side.

I touched upon the rivalries between the various nations, the enormous amounts of money expended
in armaments for aggressive and defensive purposes, our hereditary nobility, our land systems,
trading, and also the great and difficult problems of poverty, drink, and unemployment with
which we had to cope.

Whilst I was speaking, Merna, in a quiet tone of voice, translated to the Martians sitting
around us the purport of what I said; and I noticed that often he only had to say a few words
and the Martians' sense of intuition enabled them to understand what was in his mind respecting
my address and to follow my statements.

Now and then the Chief, or one of the tutors, would put searching and pertinent questions to
me on various points, and these often brought out answers which appeared to excite their surprise
and interest.

When I had finished, Soranho then took up the theme, going fully and thoroughly into the several
matters I had dealt with; and he concluded by saying, "We must, of course, make every allowance
for the present state of development of the terrestrials, but all the same I can scarcely understand
how it is they are unable to see that, speaking broadly, their political and social systems
are utterly wrong from beginning to end, and must necessarily be disastrous to the welfare
of all. Of course, I speak from a Martian point of view.

"Here upon Mars the welfare of the whole community all over our planet is the first and most
important consideration. The whole adult population, both male and female, have an equal voice
in the discussion of all matters with which the governing Council are concerned. My office,
as Chief of the Council, is held for a term of two Martian years; and I am not a ruler imposing
my own will upon the people, but their trusted servant, appointed to supervise the carrying
into effect of the people's wishes, as expressed by their votes and by their own appointed
spokesmen.

"The whole of the land upon Mars belongs to the State, and is utilised strictly in the interests
of the whole community; no one can hold it as a private possession, or use it for merely selfish
purposes. A necessary corollary to the private ownership of land is the overcrowding of buildings
upon small areas; and such general poverty and insanitary conditions as those in which so many
of your population have to live in what you have termed your 'slums' are the inevitable outcome
of such a system. Private ownership of large areas of land really involves also the practical
ownership of the people upon it!

"I can assure you, Mr. Poynders, that no such overcrowding, poverty, or insanitary conditions
will be found upon our planet, go where you will. Our people are well and comfortably housed,
and you will find ample air-space and light around every dwelling.

"On Mars no office, rank, or privilege is hereditary. It is true we have amongst us persons
of different ranks or grades, but such honours as these can only be gained as the reward of
meritorious and useful services, and can only be held by the person who has earned them.

"We have no need of an army or navy, for we are all one united nation; so all the enormous
expenditure which is wasted in your world in international rivalry and warfare is entirely
avoided here, and schemes for the general welfare of the people benefit instead. Ages ago we
abandoned war as a folly and a crime; and our world-wide system of canals, which is a prime
essential to our very existence, could never have been accomplished or maintained if one section
of our population had been at war, or was likely to be at war, with another.

"Apart from all other considerations then, our vast canal system is a guarantee of unity and
of permanent universal peace upon our planet; but, as I have said, we saw the folly of war,
and abandoned it ages ago.

"Then, as regards the terrible curse of drink which you have mentioned; if such ever existed
on Mars, it must have been in the most dim and distant past, for we have no records of such
a dreadful state of affairs as you have described as being even now one of your most difficult
problems to deal with. The absence of any excesses of this kind may, perhaps, help to account
for the fact that our population is strong and healthy, and few die of anything but old age.

"There is no such thing here as poverty or lack of employment. There is work for all who are
able to do it; and those who, by reason of age or infirmity, are unable to work, are all honourably
provided for, so that they can live in the same comfort as though they did work. This is not
charity or privilege, but the absolute right of all.

"Neither is there any over-working of any individual in our population, for the ordinary working
day here is only six hours--about equal to six hours and ten minutes in your world. No one
need work longer than this except for his own pleasure; all the remainder of the time can be
devoted to rest or recreation. No one need work at all when his powers are failing, as he will
be amply provided for."

"But," I asked, "how do you manage with regard to those who will not work? They are our most
difficult people to deal with, and constitute a great burden upon the community."

Soranho seemed astounded at this question, and exclaimed, "Is it really possible that such
beings can exist? Here no one able to work would dream of living an idle and useless life;
their natural self-respect forbids it!

"I must, as I said, make allowances for your slower rate of development; but I cannot help
thinking that for ages past our people must always have been upon a higher plane than terrestrials.

"You have been deploring the decrease in the birth-rate in your country, apparently because
it places you, as regards population, in an inferior position to other countries, the inhabitants
of which may at some time become your enemies. Yet, at the same time, you have told us that
a very large number of your people are living in poverty and misery, that the population is
too numerous for work to be found for all, and that many, being unable to find a living in
their own country, have gone out, or been sent out, to distant lands.

"What a tragedy this all is! If you had universal peace and reasonable hours of work, as we
have, there would be no need for this striving to effect an unnecessary and useless increase
in the population; and, by doing so, you are, in fact, only adding to your own poverty and
other difficulties. A healthy and hardy population, which can be properly provided for and
maintained, is what your country requires. On Mars you will find very few families with more
than three children!

"Then, as regards trade. Your international rivalries and systems of what you term 'protection'
seem specially designed to hinder trading, and to make it as difficult as possible, instead
of encouraging the free interchange of commodities to the benefit of every one.

"You tell me," he continued, "that it is really the interest and desire of your nations to
trade with each other, and that immense sums are spent in building ships and docks, and otherwise
in facilitating trade. Yet I learn that tariff barriers are erected between some of the nations,
and that tariffs are continually increased, for the purpose of restricting trade! As a consequence,
goods are either kept out of the countries affected, or artificially increased in price; the
poor being half starved, or compelled to live upon inferior food!

"In addition, it appears that the collection of the tariffs involves the upkeep of an army
of customs officials, the performance of whose duties is the cause of delay, harassment, and
irritation to all who come within the sphere of their powers.

"How much more useful it would be if that expenditure were devoted to the extension of trade
and the uplifting of the people!

"Really, Mr. Poynders, when I think of all these things, I can only say you must not expect
the Martians to admit your claim that terrestrials are 'highly' civilised; for surely no 'highly'
civilised people could act so illogically and so unwisely, or be so wantonly cruel as to tax
the food of the poor!

"Such a policy must inevitably result in misery to the many, and reduce the stamina of the
present and future generations.

"Your people have attained a high degree of civilisation in some things, but not in others;
and as they become more advanced, they will look back on their past policy with feelings of
amazement, and will, I am sure, regard it in exactly the same light as the Martians do now.
I can only express the hope that their enlightenment will soon come."

It is useful sometimes to be enabled to see ourselves as others see us, and I was now learning
how the Martians regarded us.

In defence of my own world and country, however, I pointed out that many of our thinkers and
workers saw these matters in much the same light as he did, and were endeavouring to educate
their fellows in the same views. Many were opposed to wars, and to the social conditions now
prevailing; but it would be vain to look for any great change in the near future. An alteration
in human nature must first be effected, and that must necessarily be a matter of very slow growth.

I went on to inform him that one of our great poets had written a splendid "vision of the world
and all the wonder that would be," in which he described our world as progressing:

  "Till the war drum throbbed no longer, and the battle flags were furl'd
  In the Parliament of Man; the federation of the world."

"Mars," I remarked, "had already reached this ideal state of affairs; but it could not possibly
be brought about in our world until a far distant future: for it must be the result of slow
development and gradual education of the people to see its necessity and practicability.

"Any attempt to make a sudden change would only result in tumult and worse disasters than we
were exposed to at present. Any changes in regard to our land system must also be carried out
by degrees, and after the most careful consideration, with the view of preventing any injustice
being done to the present holders. In the slow process of time these may unite in larger and
more comprehensive federations, until at last the whole world will be embraced within them.
This, of course, is looking ages ahead of our present times.

"Few thinking people amongst us can regard war as anything but a direful necessity arising
out of our present conditions; only the thoughtless and those who batten upon such disasters
can rejoice in the idea of what I have heard termed 'a jolly good war!'

"Whatever our ideals may be, we must, as sensible people, act in accordance with the demands
of existing circumstances. It has been well said that while we have a large criminal population
we must protect our persons and property by means of bolts and bars, and the maintenance of
a police force; and in a like manner, whilst we are exposed to risk of war breaking out--perhaps
through no fault of our own--we must maintain sufficient forces and armaments to cope with
any forces which might be likely to be arrayed against us. This, however, does not afford us
any excuse for not trying to do all we can to remove the causes which tend to manufacture criminals,
or to bring about wars.

"If only as much energy and effort were used with the object of averting wars by smoothing
away difficulties and removing causes of friction between the nations as there is effort and
persistency on the other side to aggravate, and even invent, conditions likely to cause mutual
irritation, distrust, and dislike, much good would accrue. Nations depend largely for their
prosperity upon their trade with other nations, and peace is the greatest interest to all;
yet the actions of some noisy and hysterical sections amongst them are a constant source of
danger, and are calculated to bring about wars which must inevitably prove most disastrous
to all concerned.

"Our religion," I told him, "inculcated peace and goodwill to all men; all of us professed
to believe in that. It is a good sign that there is a strong tendency amongst the religious
teachers of various bodies to unite in the endeavour to promote peace amongst the nations,
and many of them have done much to call attention to the urgent need of social reforms, and
have sacrificed their lives in arduous work for the benefit of their fellows.

"On the other hand, some of them are very militant, whilst others seem to regard it as their
special mission to keep social matters as they are. If this is the case amongst the teachers,
it is no wonder that the people themselves are so slow in progressing!"

The Chief here expressed the hope that I was unduly pessimistic in regard to our rate of progress,
and remarked that "He thought a great advance would be made much earlier than I seemed to anticipate.
Events," he added, "were evidently likely to move very rapidly indeed in several parts of our
world; and he was certain that a great upward movement would soon follow."

I replied that "I sincerely hoped that such was the case, and that the great experience of
the Martians with regard to the progress of ideas certainly enabled him to express a truer
and more prophetic opinion than I could possibly venture upon. At the same time I knew how
difficult it was to bring about changes of ideas and systems amongst large masses of the people;
but notwithstanding all these things, I was of the same opinion as a great poetical countryman
of my friend M'Allister's, who long ago wrote:

    'It's coming yet, for a' that,
  That man to man, the whole world o'er,
    Shall brothers be, and a' that.'"

Eleeta showed her interest in her own sex by asking what part our women took in the endeavour
to improve our social and political conditions; and seemed very surprised when I said they
had no voice in the election of members of our Imperial Parliament, although many of them took
an active part in any work for the amelioration of our social conditions.

I then gave a short account of the women's suffrage movement, and was speaking of certain unwise
actions of the militant party, when she suddenly interrupted me by throwing up her hands and
exclaiming--

"Oh, Mr. Poynders, do not say any more upon that point! I wish to think well of your women
and to make all allowances for them, but no Martian women could possibly behave in the manner
you have described; their innate self-respect is too great to allow such conduct.

"We should all feel degraded in the eyes of our husbands, brothers, and sisters, if any such
things occurred here; but they are quite impossible!

"Your women are entitled to a full share of the responsibilities connected with the election
of members of your state councils, just the same as we have; but surely there are other and
proper means of obtaining their rights and privileges without resorting to such childish and
unwomanly tactics as chaining themselves up, pestering high officers of state, and forcing
their way into your council chambers."

I assured her that the majority of our women, both rich and poor, took exactly the same view
as she did on this matter, and were utterly opposed to the methods adopted by the few, even
where they themselves were in favour of the franchise. Many, however, were so distressed by
the conduct of militant women that they opposed the franchise altogether. The pity of it all
was that the militant suffragettes seemed to glory in shocking their sisters' susceptibilities.

Eleeta then said that "For the sake of her sex she was glad to learn that such behaviour did
not meet with general approval; still, she hoped that before long our women would be enabled
to take up their proper position in connection with the election of our state councils."

After a little more desultory conversation, the Chief thanked me for what he was pleased to
term "the interesting statement with which I had favoured them."

The meeting then broke up, but I observed that John, who had been sitting with Siloni all the
time, seemed to find himself in very congenial company, which he was not at all anxious to quit.

On our way home Merna took me fully into his confidence and told me of his hopes respecting
Eleeta, at the same time giving me many particulars concerning the beautiful young lady upon
whom he had bestowed his affections.

CHAPTER XX

THE SECRET OF THE "CARETS"--THE SUN AS SEEN FROM MARS

The next day, accompanied by Merna and Tellurio, we started off at an early hour on an air-ship
trip to the northern edge of the Sinus Titanum.

This is really the bed of an ancient sea, from which all water has long since disappeared.
Nearly all the blue-green patches which are seen on the planet by our observers are also old
sea-beds, and they are now the most fertile areas upon its surface.

The object of our visit was to inspect the machinery and apparatus by which the water is lifted
and forced along the canals; and remembering what Merna had told him, M'Allister was looking
forward to seeing them with eager anticipation.

Professor Lowell has arrived at the conclusion that, owing to the shape of the planet and other
conditions, gravitation upon Mars is in a state of stable equilibrium, and that consequently
water would not flow by gravitation, as it does upon our earth, but merely spread out as it
would on a level floor. If turned into a canal it would not flow along without artificial propulsion,
except so far as it might be carried by its own "head."

We found, on inquiry, that this conclusion is very nearly correct, but there is just a small
amount of gravitation which is sufficient to produce an extremely slow movement of the water
in the canals.

I have already mentioned the discovery of the "carets" which exist in certain places on the
planet. They are seen as small V-shaped markings which are dark in tint; and perhaps might
better be described as resembling our Government's "broad-arrow," the central line representing
the end of a single canal which enters the caret centrally.

Professor Lowell is of opinion that these carets must fulfil some important purpose, as they
only appear where some of the canals connect with the dark areas of the old sea-beds. He is
quite right in this conclusion, for they are very important indeed in connection with the working
of the canal system.

They are, in fact, all situated on or adjoining the slopes of the sea-beds, and the dark sides
of the V are really two high embankments covered with dense vegetation, and thus are sufficiently
conspicuous to be seen through our telescopes. The whole encloses an area on each side of the
canals within which large and important engineering works are situated.

The canals which run along the bottom of the sea-beds are, of course, at a much lower level
than the adjoining red area, and the canals on the latter area are therefore at a higher level.
Those canals which cross the sea-beds cannot be carried by means of viaducts or embankments
so as to place them upon the same level as the canals on the red areas, because that would
defeat the purpose of irrigation, which is their chief use. It is therefore necessary to lift
the water from the low-level canals and discharge it into those upon the higher ground.

This is accomplished by means of apparatus somewhat resembling an American "grain-elevator,"
on a large scale; and it consists of a long series of very large buckets, V-shaped in cross-section,
attached to endless chain-bands, which, as they are carried round by the machinery, scoop up
the water from the low-level canals and carry it up to the requisite height, from whence it
is automatically discharged into the high-level canals. Of course it will be understood that
the ends of the latter canals are entirely closed by embankments so that no water can pass
that way.

The buckets are an enormous size, and the electric machinery by which they are kept in motion
is of the most ingenious description.

Besides this there is an immense amount of equally ingenious electrical machinery for forcing
the water along the canals.

Merna and Tellurio showed us all over the area, and carefully explained the construction and
working of the various machines. I do not think M'Allister ever spent a more enjoyable time
in his life, for he went about amongst the different machines examining them with the keenest
interest and manifestations of delight; and his note-book was in constant requisition for making
sketches and notes of what he saw.

We noticed that he was frequently smiling and chuckling to himself as if he were intensely
pleased; and presently he came over to us, rubbing his hands together in high glee, and said
to John, "Heh, mon, I reckon I see my way to making a fortune when we return home, out of the
ideas and wrinkles I'm getting here from the work of the Martian engineers!"

John laughed, and congratulated him heartily on his brilliant outlook for the future, remarking
that he did not appear to regret coming to Mars.

"Indeed, I don't," M'Allister replied; "I'm thinking it will prove the very best thing I've
done in my life."

"Well, sir," said Merna, "I told you those machines would suit you as an engineer; are you
satisfied now you have seen them?"

"More than satisfied," answered M'Allister; "they are the most extraordinary and most ingenious
machines I ever saw, and I wouldn't have missed them for anything!"

At the sides of each high-level canal we saw a series of locks and weirs so constructed that
vessels can pass on, in successive stages, from the high-level to the low-level canals, and
vice versâ.

These locks and weirs are all within the area enclosed by the embankments forming the carets,
which accounts for the long and extensive space the latter cover, as the locks are necessarily
a considerable distance apart from each other to allow for a length of canal to be traversed
before the next lock is reached. They are, however, not in themselves sufficiently conspicuous
to be separately discerned from the earth by our telescopic observers.

Machinery for forcing the water along the canals is also provided at most of the junctions
everywhere on the planet. In this connection it must be remembered that the water is carried
by the canals from one hemisphere to the other, and, after passing the equator, must therefore
move in a direction contrary to that of ordinary gravitation.

Thus at one season of the year the water passes from the north polar regions down into the
southern hemisphere, and at the opposite period of the year it is carried in the same way from
the south polar regions right into the northern hemisphere.

Gravitation being almost non-effective as regards the flow of water on Mars, the movement would
be extremely slow everywhere were it not for the machinery, which adds to the speed of the
flow. The average rate of the movement of the water in the canals is about fifty-one miles
a day, and it takes about fifty-two days for the water to pass from about latitude 72° down
to the equator, a distance of 2650 miles.

This rate of flow, as indicated by the darkening arising from the growth of vegetation which
follows the flow of the water down the canals, has been observed and noted many times at Flagstaff
Observatory.

It was now perfectly clear to us why the "carets" are only seen in the particular places in
which they have been observed by Professor Lowell and his colleagues. They are, in fact, only
needed in connection with water-lifting apparatus, and locks and weirs, at the places where
high-level canals connect with those at a lower level!

We were all very pleased at finding the solution of a problem which had been much discussed
between us without arriving at any satisfactory conclusion.

John then asked Tellurio if he would be good enough to explain to us how it was that our observers
on the earth saw some of the Martian canals doubled at some periods of the year and single
at other times; and sometimes one of the twin canals was seen alone, and at other times the
second one only was visible.

"It is a very simple matter, sir," replied Tellurio. "You will understand that we do not wish
to waste any of our water, and as it is quite unnecessary to use all our canals at the same
time, we only use those which are actually required. This arrangement also allows us to have
a much greater depth of water in the canals than would be the case if they were all in use at once.

"Many of the canals are only required for irrigating seasonal crops; so as soon as the requisite
amount of moisture has been acquired by the soil the water is turned from that canal into another
one, passing through an area where a later seasonal crop is to be grown. This arrangement,
moreover, applies not only to our double canals, but also to very many of the series which
you have regarded as single canals."

Thus the mysteries connected with Mars were being cleared up one after the other; and having
regard to the very simple and natural explanations we received, we could not help laughing
as we talked the matter over and recalled the immense amount of discussion and wrangling which
had occurred amongst our scientific men in connection with these matters, and especially at
the difficulty they seemed to experience in believing that the canals could exist at all. Then
there were those charges and theories of overstrained eyes, diplopia, and defective focussing,
to say nothing of other suggestions. Well, I will not say any more upon this point.

In continuation of our discussion of the canal question, I asked Tellurio "Whether the canals
and irrigation system had been the means of reclaiming any large areas of land which had previously
been deserts?"

"Oh yes, sir," he answered, "that has been the case in many parts of our world; some very large
areas indeed which were once deserts have now become very fertile. Quite apart from such reclamations,
however, our canals and irrigation systems have also effectually checked the spread of desertism.
If it had remained unchecked, probably by this time the entire surface of our planet would
have become a desert."

I then explained that I asked the question because our observers had seen and noted upon their
charts several large areas which seemed to have become fertile. Thus, along the eastern side
of Thaumasia it had been noted that, during a period of about twenty-three years, the green
area had advanced at least 400 miles nearer to the place we called the "Solar Lake." On measuring
this area on the map it appeared to me that at least 200,000 square miles which had previously
been desert had become fertile.

Similar extensions of vegetation had also been charted in several other places, for instance,
on the east side of the large area known to us as "Syrtis Major." I had, however, been rather
surprised not to have come across any comment by our scientists on the significance of this
very large increase of fertile land, as, taken in connection with the great canal system, it
seemed to me very significant and full of meaning.

Merna, continuing his remarks, then said that "Lately considerable extensions of their canal
system had been carried out. New canals had been dug, others altered or extended, and vast
areas had been considerably changed by replanting in some places and fallowing in others. The
result of all this work," he said, "would produce a striking alteration in the configuration
of some of the dark areas. Such changes," he remarked, "were carried out very rapidly, so rapidly
indeed that it would probably be almost incredible to terrestrials; but it must be remembered
that excavation, loading and removal of soil, as well as most other operations, were accomplished
by special machinery. He had no doubt these changes would be noted by our observers, as Mars
was so favourably situated in regard to the earth at the present time. Besides this," he continued,
"many of our canals have been dealt with, and some of them will disappear, either temporarily
or permanently."

"Well, Merna," said John, "if that is the case our observers will soon miss them; and I can
imagine some of them gazing on your planet through their telescopes and exclaiming, 'Lo! here
is the symbol of the death of Mars. Where we used to see canals there is now only blank space;
the canals are disappearing, and the Martians must be rapidly decreasing in numbers and no
longer able to maintain their vast canal system; or perhaps their water supply is diminishing
so rapidly that it is becoming insufficient to keep the canals in working order; so ere long
all life upon Mars must come to an end!'"

"If that should be so," said Merna, "they will be altogether wrong in their surmises, for the
disappearance of several of our canals will not indicate death but life. Some of those canals
will only be temporarily put out of use, but others, having served their purpose, will be discontinued
permanently. They are like our flowers that have done blooming, which may be allowed to grow
again next season, or the ground may be fallowed and fresh flowers planted elsewhere; so the
vanished canals may be succeeded by fresh ones where they are needed; and when your people
see these new canals they will know that they indicate the continued existence of vigorous
and enterprising life upon Mars."

We then started upon our return home, and on the way I drew M'Allister's attention to the smaller
size of the sun as we saw it now as compared with the size it appeared to us when on the earth.
I told him that Mars was then about 131,000,000 miles from the sun, so the sun's apparent diameter
was only about 22-1/4 minutes.

On the earth that day the sun's apparent diameter would be about 32 minutes. So to the Martians
the sun only appeared about two-thirds the size it appeared to the people on the earth.

When, on 13th August this year, Mars was at its "perihelion," or nearest point to the sun,
the latter was 129,500,000 miles distant, and would appear rather more than 22-1/2 minutes
in diameter.

At the opposite point of its orbit, where it will be in "aphelion," or farthest from the sun,
the sun will only appear about 19 minutes in diameter.

I then explained that, although the sun is so distant, Mars receives a very much larger percentage
of the total heat and light available than we do on the earth, because of the thinness and
generally cloudless condition of the atmosphere. It is estimated that our atmosphere and clouds
shut out nearly 50 per cent. of the light and heat which would otherwise reach us in the course
of the year. On the other hand, their "blanketing" effect considerably lessens the amount of
heat radiated into space; thus, by keeping in the heat we have received, compensating to some
extent for the original loss in quantity.

But, owing to its thin clear atmosphere, Mars receives nearly 99 per cent. of the total amount
of heat and light proceeding to it from the sun; so that, although the sun is more distant
from the planet, the warmth on Mars does not compare so unfavourably with the warmth on the
earth as many have imagined it to do.

M'Allister replied that "He had expected to find it very cold indeed upon Mars in consequence
of its distance from the sun, but was surprised to find it so warm," and added, "what you have
now told me, Professor, explains why this is so, and I can only say that at present I find
the climate a delightful one--pleasantly warm, yet bracing and invigorating. Even in the tropical
regions, although it is hot, it is not the oppressive and enervating heat that I have experienced
in the tropics on our own world."

He then remarked that "He knew the planets all moved through space and had read that some of
the stars did too, and he would like to know whether our sun had any motion in space?"

"Yes," I replied; "as the result of a long series of observations and calculations it has been
determined that the sun is moving through space and carrying with it all the planets in our
system. Its rate of movement is not known with certainty, but it is estimated at about 1,000,000
miles a day. Whether it is moving in a straight line or in a vast orbit around some far distant
sun is also an open question, and it may take centuries to arrive at a definite result. This
motion of our sun, rapid though it is, is very slow compared with the motion of some of the
stars. One that appears only a small star to us, but which is probably a sun enormously larger
than ours, is moving through space at a rate which cannot be less than 200 miles a second;
and unless that movement is direct across our line of sight its rate must be still more rapid.
Yet it is so enormously distant that, in 500 years, it would only appear to have moved over
a space of one degree on the sky! It is calculated that Arcturus moves still more rapidly.

"The movements of several other stars have been calculated; but the distance of the stars is
so enormously great that the majority appear to have no movement at all, though probably not
one of the heavenly bodies is at rest.

"It is estimated that the light of the nearest star we know of takes at least four years to
reach the earth, yet light travels at the rate of 186,000 miles a second. We know of others
whose light takes centuries to reach us, and, with regard to most of the stars, the light we
see probably left them thousands of years ago.

"It is only when a star is so near to us that the earth's revolution in its orbit is sufficient
to cause a change in the apparent position of the star which can be measured with our instruments
that any calculation can be made to determine its distance from us. In nearly all cases where
the distance has been calculated, the change in position is so minute and difficult to measure
accurately, that the results obtained can only be regarded as very rough approximations to
the real distances.

"The universe is infinite in extent, and the human mind is quite unable to conceive what is
really implied in the distances of the planets belonging to our own solar system; yet they
are as nothing when compared with the distances of the fixed stars, either from the earth or
from each other. We equally fail to realise the immense numbers of the stars. The camera, it
is estimated, shows at least one hundred millions in the heavens; and our great telescopes
can penetrate through inconceivable distances of space and render visible millions which the
smaller instruments fail to reveal. Every increase of instrumental power, however, carries
us still farther, and reveals more and more stars in deeper depths of the illimitable abysses
of space.

"In these matters there is no finality, for though with telescopic aid:

  'World after world, sun after sun, star after star are past,
    Yet systems round in myriads rise more glorious than the last:
  The wondrous universe of God still limitless is found,
    For endless are its distances, and none its depths can sound!'"

CHAPTER XXI

OUR FIRST VIEW OF THE EARTH FROM MARS--A MARTIAN COURTSHIP

Within a few days we had our first glimpse of the earth from Mars. It appeared only as a very
thin but bright crescent of light, as the lighted portion was less than one-twelfth part of
the whole diameter of the disc, and it was only visible for a very short time.

Owing to the clear and thin atmosphere of Mars there is very little scintillation of the stars,
and the crescent form of the earth at such periods as the present can plainly be discerned
without the aid of a glass. To the Martians this is more readily seen than by us, as their
eyes, being larger than ours, have a much greater light grasp.

For the same reason all the stars shine much brighter than they do in our skies, and many of
the smaller ones which can be seen from Mars with the unaided eye, would here require a low
power-glass to render them visible to us. The fact that Saturn has a ring is quite apparent
to the Martian eye.

Day by day after this we saw the lighted area extending upon the earth, just the same as on
the earth Venus can be seen with a telescope gradually to pass from the crescent phase to the
gibbous form, and ultimately become full. Our earth is a morning and evening star to Mars the
same as Venus is to the earth, according to its position with regard to the sun.

Whilst we were looking at the earth, I asked Merna "Whether he had ever seen the earth transit
the sun as we occasionally see Venus or Mercury do so?"

He answered that "He carefully observed the last transit, which occurred on a date equivalent
to our 8th May 1905, and was very interested in watching the earth pass, as a small black spot,
across the sun's disc. The moon did not commence to cross until 6 hours and 7 minutes later,
by which time the earth had passed over three-quarters of the sun's diameter. The earth was
8 hours and 42 minutes in transit, and the moon, which crossed a little lower down, was 8 hours
and 31 minutes in crossing."

"That must have been an interesting sight," said John, "and I should like to have the opportunity
of watching a similar transit."

"I am afraid you never will," said Merna, "for the transits only occur at long intervals. The
previous transits occurred in November 1879, November 1800, May 1700, and May 1621. There will
not be another until May 1984, and the next after that will not occur until November 2084."

"I am sorry to hear that," remarked John, "for even if I stayed here, I should not be likely
to live long enough to see the next transit. Possibly you may do so, Merna; you are so much
younger than I am."

"Yes," Merna replied, "it is not unlikely that I may see another such transit, for the average
length of our lives on Mars is about equal to one hundred and thirty of your years, so that
leaves me an ample margin of time."

I then went on to remark that as another result of the thinness of the Martian atmosphere twilight
is much shorter than on the earth, the light being less diffused when the sun is below the
horizon, and refraction also considerably less than we experience.

In this connection, I mentioned to M'Allister that we can often see the sun and the moon apparently
above the earth's horizon when they are, in fact, below it. This is caused by the refractive
power of our dense atmosphere, which has the effect of making both the sun and the moon appear
a little higher up than they really are.

"That is something new to me, Professor," exclaimed M'Allister; "and I cannot say I quite understand
how refraction, as you term it, has the effect you mention."

"It may help you, then," I answered, "if I tell you that water acts very much in the same way;
and there is a simple and fairly well-known experiment you might try for yourself, which would
make the matter perfectly clear to you. It is as follows:--

"Take a teacup and place a shilling at the bottom of it, then move back until you quite lose
sight of the coin. Ask some one to pour some clean cold water gently into the cup, and, as
it fills, the refraction of the water will apparently reduce the depth of the cup, and thus
bring the coin fully into view. In much the same way the refraction of the atmosphere enables
us to see the sun or the moon when those bodies are actually below the horizon."

"Thank you, Professor," said M'Allister; "I will try that little experiment at the first opportunity."

I then told him that at the time when the moon is just full it may rise towards the east just
as the sun sets towards the west. Both orbs cannot be wholly above the horizon at the same
time on such occasions, but, owing to refraction, we are able to see them both.

The sun and moon both appear flattened or oval-shaped just as they are rising or setting, in
consequence of the effects of atmospheric refraction. These effects are usually most noticeable
near the horizon, because the object is seen through the densest layers of air. But we never
see a star in its true place in the sky, because the rays of light which come to us from the
star are bent or refracted as they pass through our atmosphere, just as a stick appears to
be bent when thrust down into a deep pool of clear water.

All these effects, however, add to the work of astronomers, because they must be taken into
account in connection with their calculations.

       *       *       *       *       *

As the time passed on, I day by day became more interested in Merna's relations with Eleeta.

"All the world loves a lover," and we elderly people are always pleased to note the progress
of young folks' love affairs, especially if either of them is a relative of ours. In them we
seem to renew our youth, for their entrancements seem to carry us back to the halcyon days
when we ourselves were young. When "Love took up the glass of time and turned it in his glowing
hands" everything seemed of a roseate hue, and we dwelt in the seventh heaven of delight, at
peace with all the world and envying no one--for were we not the most happy and fortunate of
mortals!

And then, to look upon a Martian courtship! To see the rich flushes mount to the cheeks of
the lovers--their softly glowing luminous eyes, their absorbed attention in each other, and
their mutual deference and response to the most slightly indicated wish! Ah, it was indeed
a scene to gladden the heart of the father of one of them!

Eleeta's beauty, the sweetness of her disposition, and most charming and lovable ways endeared
her so to me that I did not wonder Merna found them so attractive and satisfying; and my most
fervent aspirations ascended for their happiness, both now and in the future.

With the Martians there is no false modesty about their courtships; all is natural, proper,
and dignified; every one may see and every one enters into the true spirit of the thing. Mere
flirtations, such as we are so familiar with, are quite unknown, as they would be contrary
to all the natural instincts of the people. Everything upon Mars is honest, true, and straightforward--open
and above-board. This must necessarily be so, in consequence of the Martians' powers of intuition,
for any attempt at imposition or deceit would at once be detected.

I had an illustration of this when I asked Merna, "How they dealt with their criminals?"

"We have none to deal with," he replied, "and you will understand why, when I tell you, that
if any one committed a crime, however small, and it was desired to find out the offender, it
would be impossible to escape detection. He might fly to the other side of our world, but the
intuitions of our experts would at once make them aware of his hiding-place; besides, he could
not conceal what was on his mind from any one with whom he associated.

"In the earlier times when only a small proportion of the Martians were endowed with these
powers to any large extent, there were occasional crimes; but as they were always detected,
crime soon ceased to exist.

"Thus you will see that, quite apart from their high standard of morality, the Martians soon
found that crime was a folly."

       *       *       *       *       *

There was another love affair apparently developing which did not afford me so much satisfaction
as that to which I have just alluded.

I noticed that John and Siloni were very frequently together; and, whatever might be the case
with the latter, I had very little doubt that John was smitten with his companion's charms.
It was, perhaps, nothing to be wondered at, for Siloni was indeed a very nice girl, with beautiful
features, dark hair, and dark eyes; whilst John was well-built, fully six feet in height, with
black hair and moustache, and very good-looking; altogether a fine and attractive man, and
it had often been a matter of surprise to me that he had never married.

Still, such a complication as this had never entered my mind when I came to Mars, and I was
rather perplexed to know how best to deal with the situation. However, I thought it would be
well to wait a little while and see how the matter shaped itself before taking any action.

Besides these advantages, the rapid movements of the two satellites of the planet result in
a constant succession of celestial phenomena which afford very frequent opportunities for most
interesting observations. Changes in the phases of the two moons, eclipses, occultations, transits,
&c., are constantly occurring, so there is nearly always something to attract our attention
to the Martian sky.

We have already seen several of these phenomena, and I will now describe what we have observed.

Early one evening when we were out with Merna, we looked up at the sky and saw the two moons
a considerable distance apart, but approaching each other from opposite directions, Phobos
appearing to move very rapidly. Both were near the full phase, Deimos being more nearly full
than Phobos; and we watched them drawing closer and closer together till Phobos passed right
in front of Deimos so as to hide it entirely. This is termed an occultation; and both the satellites
had become full when the occultation occurred; but when they were again clear of each other
both were beginning to wane.

This sight may be seen anywhere near the Martian equator about every ten hours.

The movements of Phobos seemed very peculiar to us who had lived upon the earth and seen all
the celestial bodies appearing to move in the same direction.

I have already alluded to the fact that Phobos is only 3700 miles above the surface of Mars,
and moves so rapidly that it makes more than three complete revolutions round the planet whilst
the latter is turning only once on its axis.

The effect of this very rapid revolution of the satellite, which has no counterpart, so far
as we know, in our Solar system is that, instead of rising in the east and setting in the west
as all the other heavenly bodies appear to do, Phobos appears to rise in the west, cross the
sky, and set in the east.

The moon and planets all actually move from west to east; the apparent reverse of this being
caused by the more rapid movement of the earth on its axis, giving the other bodies the appearance
of moving from east to west. If, however, our moon is closely watched, and its position with
regard to a fixed star carefully noted, it will be found that in the course of a short time
its real movement has been eastward, and that its position with regard to the fixed star has
changed, although the revolution of the earth has appeared to carry both westward.

Phobos is 36 miles in diameter. Its actual period of revolution round the planet is 7 hours
and 39 minutes, but, owing to the movement of Mars on its axis in the same direction, it appears
to take a few minutes over 11 hours to complete one revolution.

Near the equator, Phobos is seen above the horizon for about 4-1/4 hours, and is below it about
6-3/4 hours. According as the place from which it is viewed is farther from the equator so
will the time of visibility of Phobos be decreased, until when latitude 69° is reached in either
hemisphere, it will cease to become visible at all. This is owing to its nearness to the planet;
and, Mars being small, the curve of its sphere is sharp, so that the horizon is more limited
than on the earth, and the satellite is shut out from view anywhere above latitude 69° by the
body of the planet.

Another peculiarity is that, when in the zenith, Phobos appears twice as large in area as it
does when near the horizon, and notwithstanding its very small size, Phobos appears rather
larger than our moon, because it is so near to the planet.

The length of the Martian "night" is about 12 hours and 20 minutes, and during this very short
time Phobos may be seen to rise in the west, set in the east, and rise again once more in the
west. Consequently it will be evident that it must travel very rapidly across the sky. It really
moves over a space of 32-1/2° in a single hour--a great contrast to the slow and stately movement
of our moon, which only passes over half a degree in an hour.

Moreover, Phobos may be seen to rise as a new moon, pass through its phases to the full, wane,
and again become new, all in the course of a single Martian night; or it may be seen twice
full and once new during the same time.

Even this does not exhaust the list of phenomena, for, being so close to Mars, Phobos is very
frequently eclipsed by the shadow of the planet. On the other hand, the sun may be eclipsed
by Phobos something like fourteen hundred times in the course of a Martian year; and, as already
mentioned, the other satellite is often occulted by Phobos--sometimes when both may be only
at the half full phase, and these occultations look very peculiar.

Deimos, being only 10 miles in diameter and about 12,500 miles from the surface of the planet,
does not give rise to so many phenomena as the nearer satellite: still they are very numerous.

It revolves round the planet in 30-1/4 hours, but appears to take 131-1/2 hours to do so, being
above the horizon about 60 hours, and below it nearly 72 hours. These are the times as seen
from the equator; but, as in the case of Phobos, the farther the place is from the equator
the shorter is the period that Deimos is seen above the horizon, until, when latitude 82° is
reached in either hemisphere, it ceases to become visible at all.

Our moon, being so very much more distant from our earth, could be seen from both the poles.

Deimos also passes nearly twice through all its phases whilst it is above the horizon, viz.
during about 60 hours, and may be seen twice full and twice new in that time.

Eclipses of Deimos by the planet and occultations of it by the other satellite are very frequent.
Being so small, it can never cause an eclipse of the sun, but it transits the sun as a dark
spot about one hundred and twenty times during the Martian year.

This is really a very inadequate list of the phenomena connected with the satellites, but it
will be seen that the number is enormous compared with the few eclipses of the sun or moon
seen on the earth during the course of one year. Certainly Mars is an astronomer's world!

Merna heard my statements respecting these movements and phenomena as I explained them to my
two friends; and when I had finished, he remarked, "You seem to be fairly well posted in these
matters, sir?"

"Yes," I said; "thanks to our astronomers, both professional and amateur, all these things
have been very carefully calculated; and, with the exception of a few doubtful points, we probably
know nearly as much about them as the Martians themselves do."

M'Allister then turned to me and said, "Professor, you told us that the two satellites of Mars
revolved round the planet in a certain time, but in each case you afterwards said they appeared
to take a much longer time to do so. I'm rather puzzled to understand how that can be."

"It's really a simple matter, M'Allister," I answered, "and I think I can make it clear to
you. While the satellite is making one revolution round the planet the latter is turning on
its axis in the same direction as the satellite is moving, following it up in fact; and you
will I think understand that in these circumstances the people on that part of the planet where
the moon is visible must necessarily keep it in view for a longer period than would be the
case if the planet were not revolving in the same direction.

"You have been used to being on board a ship; so suppose your vessel was steaming twelve miles
an hour and there was another vessel at anchor just twelve miles ahead of you, you would reach
it in just one hour, would you not?"

"Yes, certainly I should," replied M'Allister.

"Now," I continued, "suppose that the other vessel, instead of being at rest, was moving away
from you at the rate of six miles an hour; after you had steamed one hour it would still be
six miles ahead of you, and it would take you exactly another hour to catch it up. So you would
be just double the time reaching it when moving as compared with the time required to do so
when it was at anchor. This is very similar to the cases of the satellites of Mars, and much
the same thing happens in regard to Mars and the earth. If they are opposite to each other
at a certain point, Mars will have taken much more than one revolution round its orbit before
they will be opposite to each other again, because they are both moving in the same direction.
Do you see it now?" I asked.

"Yes, Professor," he replied. "I know now, because you have cleared it all up. It's simple
enough when one understands it."

Merna then asked me if I would like to see some of their astronomical instruments, and, on
my replying that I should very much like to do so, he took us to an observatory where Corontus
was at work.

I was at once struck by the small size of the telescopes; and, on inquiring about them, Corontus
told me that very large instruments had long become obsolete, for these small ones could be
used for all the purposes for which a large one had been required, and gave better results.

I examined one of them and found, to my surprise, that it embodied the very ideas that I had
long been trying to carry into effect. With this view I had made many experiments, as it seemed
to me that it ought to be possible to construct an instrument of moderate and convenient dimensions
which would show as much as our monsters will show, and yet be capable of being used with low
powers when occasion required. I had endeavoured to attain this result by the aid of electricity,
but failed to do so. Evidently I had missed something, but here was the thing itself in successful
working, as I found upon testing it.

On looking at some drawings of Saturn, which were hanging up in the observatory, I noticed
that this planet was depicted with two faint outer rings which do not appear on our drawings
of the planet. One of these rings has, however, been discovered by M. Jarry-Desloges, but the
outermost ring is still unknown to our observers. This ring is a very broad one, its particles
being widely scattered, hence its extreme faintness.

The Martians have also discovered two planets far beyond the orbit of Neptune, and their knowledge
of the other planets and also of the sun and the stars is far ahead of ours.

I was also shown a comet which had recently become visible through their telescopes, and found
from its position that it was undoubtedly Halley's comet, for which our astronomers were so
eagerly watching. I wondered whether any of them had been fortunate enough to discover it early
in August, as the Martian astronomers did. Its last appearance was in the year 1835.

John remarked that "He thought Halley's comet might be termed 'Britain's Comet,' for several
of its appearances had coincided with the occurrence of very important events and turning-points
in our national history, such as the Battle of Hastings, the Reformation, &c.," and he added,
"as it will be a conspicuous object in our skies in 1910, I wonder whether any important event
will occur in our country? In 1835, when it last appeared, we had a political crisis!"

"Well, John," I replied, "I do not attach much importance to comets as affecting mundane affairs;
we have got rather beyond such beliefs as that. Besides, when we left England early in August
things were going on all right in our political world, and there was no indication of any serious
crisis."

"Still," said John, "it would be rather curious if we did have a crisis next year; and I should
not be surprised!"

As we were walking home next day, M'Allister suddenly tripped over some little projection and
fell prone to the ground. John ran to his assistance and raised him up, at the same time asking
"If he were hurt?"

"No, not at all," said M'Allister; "I seemed to fall so lightly that I scarcely felt it when
I touched the ground."

"Ah, M'Allister!" I exclaimed, "if you had fallen like that upon our earth, I think you would
not have come off quite scatheless. You see, upon Mars the gravitation is much less than on
the earth, being only three-eighths of what it is there, so one does not fall so swiftly, nor
so heavily, as on the earth.

"You can prove that very easily. Just take up a stone and hold it out higher than your head,
and let it fall; at the same time note, by the second hand of your watch, how long it takes
for the stone to reach the ground."

He did so, and said that "As near as he could tell, the stone was just about one second of
time in passing from his hand to the ground."

"Just so," I replied. "On Mars a falling body only moves through a space of about six feet
in the first second of time. On the earth, however, the gravitation is so much greater that
a falling body passes through a space of a little over sixteen feet during the first second.

"In addition to that, although you weighed twelve stones when on the earth, you only weigh
about four and a half stones here upon Mars. Now you can understand why it was you seemed to
fall so lightly."

"Yes, Professor," he replied, "and I'm glad I fell here, and not upon the earth!"

Then, picking up the stone again and throwing it high in the air, he watched its fall, and
turning to me, remarked, "Professor, you were quite right; that stone seemed to be quite a
long time coming down again, much longer than it would have been on our own world."

"Well, M'Allister," I replied, "now you know for certain that upon a small planet gravitation
really is much less than upon a larger planet of the same kind.

"That's another little wrinkle for you, and you have found it all out through tripping over
a stone!"

"Losh, mon," replied he, "I seem to have learnt something almost every day since I have been
here; even a tumble down teaches me something!"

I then drew his attention to the birds flying near us, and pointed out that they had a much
wider spread of wing than our birds have, and that this was owing to the fact that the air
being so thin a wide spread of wing was absolutely necessary to support them in the air and
enable them to fly. I further explained that, if the gravitation upon Mars were as great as
upon the earth, the birds' wings must necessarily have been still larger, as the pull of the
planet would have been so much the greater, and would thus have prevented the birds from flying
at all in such thin air if their wings had been small.

"M'Allister," I then remarked, "you will, no doubt, have noticed the same thing with regard
to those large and beautiful butterflies we have seen. Why, the outspread wings of the largest
must have measured ten or twelve inches across, and many of the smaller varieties were more
than six inches across. I wonder what our naturalists would say if they could see some specimens
of these large and splendidly coloured insects!"

"Well, Professor," he answered, "I never saw such large butterflies anywhere else, not even
when I was in the tropics on our own world. It had never occurred to me that gravitation, or
even the density of the air, had anything to do with their size. Even now I do not understand
how it is the small insects are able to fly, for they are heavy for their size, and do not
possess very large wings, yet they can move very swiftly."

"Let me explain then," I answered. "Large birds can only move their wings with comparative
slowness, and it is therefore necessary that their wings should be large to enable them to
keep their balance and be able to fly. Their wings are somewhat in the nature of aeroplanes,
and they shift them to different angles to take advantage of the varying currents of air.

"In the case of humming-birds and small insects, the wings are capable of intensely rapid vibrations,
so rapid indeed that, when flying, the wings are almost, if not quite, invisible. This intensely
rapid movement enables them to fly, and is somewhat analogous to the rapid movements of the
vertical spiral screws, which you have seen on some of the Martian air-ships that screw their
way up into the air.

"Such rapid movements would not be suited to larger creatures, because their muscular powers
would have to be so enormously great that their bodies would require to be larger and heavier
in proportion. They would thus be very unwieldy."

CHAPTER XXIII

I HAVE A SERIOUS TALK WITH JOHN

For some days past it had been becoming more and more evident to me that John was quite infatuated
with Siloni, and also that she was not unwilling to receive his attentions. I could, therefore,
no longer remain a silent spectator, so took the first opportunity of our being alone to broach
the subject to him.

I began by saying, "John, have you any idea of remaining upon this planet for the rest of your
life?"

He looked round at me and flushed up. Then, after a little hesitation, said, "No, Professor;
why do you ask such a question as that?"

"Because, John," I answered, "it seems to me a very necessary question to ask. If you are going
away from here very shortly, what is the meaning of your attentions to our handsome young friend
Siloni? You must excuse my speaking of this, but I do not like to see you placing yourself
in a false position. Don't you think it would be wise to see a little less of the lady in question
during the remainder of your stay here?"

"Well, perhaps so, Professor," he replied rather reluctantly. "I never thought it would come
to this with me, considering that I am now on the wrong side of forty. It has been said that
a man does not know what love really is until he has passed that age, and certainly I never
did. Candidly, Professor, I must confess that I am very hard hit; and I know pretty well now
what it means to be over head and ears in love with the most charming girl I ever met in my life!

"Do not imagine I have not seen the difficulty of the situation; but, really, I am puzzled
to know what to do for the best. I am sure that dear girl would have me, and if I take her
to England----"

"John," I interrupted, "my dear boy, what can you be thinking of? How is it possible that you
can take to England as your wife a Martian girl, who stands considerably over seven feet in height!

"Even supposing it were possible that she could live in the atmosphere and climate of our country,
she would be entirely isolated from every one, and, moreover, would be an object of public
curiosity wherever she went.

"It would really be most unjust, humiliating, and cruel to Siloni; and you would be made very
unhappy owing to the way she would be treated."

John looked down and fidgeted his feet about on the floor as he pondered in deep thought for
some minutes, then looking up at me, he said, "I suppose you are right, Professor; you generally
are; and that I have been rather foolish; but really I was thoroughly caught in the toils before
I realised it. Now, what would you advise me to do in the matter?"

"I should advise you now as I did at first," I replied--"see less of Siloni. I suppose you
have not actually spoken to her on the subject yet?"

"Oh no," he answered quickly, "I have not gone so far as that; but Siloni must be aware of
my regard for her."

"Well, that being the case," I said, "you cannot very well say anything now, for it would place
her in a most awkward and unpleasant position. You cannot tell her you were going to propose,
but have thought better of it. Your only course, John, is to keep away from her as much as
possible without appearing to do so intentionally."

"But won't she think it very strange behaviour on my part if I avoid her now, after being so
much in her company?" he asked desperately, as if in hopes that I might not press him to give
up the idea of continuing as before.

"No, John, I do not think so," I replied. "You know she is a Martian, and if she has not already
some intuition of the situation, the very next time you see her this trouble will be on your
mind, and she will become aware of the exact position of affairs; and I have no doubt she will
accept the situation, though it will probably cause her considerable pain. You should have
thought of all this sooner, my boy. It is a great pity this has happened, but there is no help
for it now, and no other honourable way out of it that I can see. I am, however, extremely
sorry for you both."

"Thank you, Professor," he exclaimed, grasping me fervently by the hand; "but it is very hard
luck indeed."

He was very quiet and self-absorbed for several days after that, but things turned out just
as I anticipated. The next time he and Siloni met and conversed together, she became aware
of the change in him, and divined the reason of it. She said nothing, but he knew she understood;
and, except that she was quieter, she never made any difference in her behaviour towards him
when they met occasionally afterwards.

So, though I was sorry in some respects, I was very glad that this awkward matter was settled.

CHAPTER XXIV

THE MARTIAN SEASONS

Our earliest records of Mars date back to a very remote period, viz. 2300 years before the
birth of Christ! Professor Hilprecht, in the course of his investigations on the site of the
ancient city of Nippur, made extensive excavations, and dug down and down through the ruins
until he had penetrated through those of no less than sixteen different cities, which, at various
times, had been built one over the other. He unearthed the famous Temple of Bel, together with
its great library, consisting of over 23,000 tablets, containing the chronicles of Bel.

When a number of these tablets had been deciphered, they were found to contain a complete system
of philosophy, science, and religion, and proved that those ancient people knew many things
about astronomy, and in some of the fundamental matters would not have much to learn from astronomers
of the present day. These tablets contained, amongst other things, records of observations
of Mars! It is claimed that Chinese records go back to a still more remote date.

Since the discovery of the telescope our knowledge of Mars has gradually extended, and its
general surface configuration is now well known to all students of the planet.

The polar snow-caps were early depicted on drawings, also some of the dark areas; especially
the striking one which has been known as the Kaiser Sea and the Hour Glass Sea, but is now
usually termed Syrtis Major. It has an outline somewhat resembling that of India; and, if we
include the southern portion, it is nearly as large in area.

Our maps of Mars are now practically uniform as regards the naming of the places marked upon
them. Formerly this was not so, as each country had its own map and the places marked thereon
were named after different astronomers, and usually after those belonging to the country in
which the map was prepared. Much confusion arose from this practice, because the same spot
on Mars might have a different name on each map; thus it was difficult to identify any particular
spot when only the name was known.

Some international jealousy also arose owing to the patriotic desire of observers to identify
particular spots upon Mars with the names of the great men of their own country.

To remove this cause of friction and misunderstanding a system has now been almost generally
adopted of giving classical names to Martian markings. Some of these are of portentous length
and strange spelling, but still the adoption of a uniform nomenclature has been a great convenience
to observers and others who have occasion to use or refer to the maps.

On looking at a complete chart of the planet it will be seen that the largest area of dark
patches (which are believed to be areas capable of supporting life) is situated in the southern
hemisphere, and that several of these are wedge-shaped, with the points trending northward.
On the earth it is just the opposite, the largest area of land being in the northern hemisphere,
and the wedge-shaped masses trend southward.

Our earth's surface comprises an area of about 193,000,000 square miles, of which some 143,000,000
square miles are water, and the remaining 50,000,000 square miles land.

Mars has a surface area of about 56,000,000 square miles, about 35,000,000 square miles being
desert, and the remaining 21,000,000 square miles land which may be habitable, as most of it
is covered with vegetation. There are no large areas of water anywhere upon Mars. This calculation,
however, makes no allowance for the lines of vegetation which cross the desert, and contain
canals, and, with the oases, may have a very large population.

From the 50,000,000 square miles of land upon the earth must be deducted the very large areas
which are frozen during the greater part of the year, and also the large areas which are deserts
or bare rocks. This would probably bring down the really habitable area to about 30,000,000
square miles.

Making a similar deduction in the case of Mars, but remembering that more of the regions near
the poles would be habitable during part of the year than is the case on the earth (as there
is practically no permanent glaciation and the temperate zones extend nearly to the poles)
the habitable area would be reduced to, say, 15,000,000 square miles.

It will thus be seen that although the total surface area of Mars is only rather more than
one-quarter of that of the earth, the area of its habitable land, even under its present unfavourable
circumstances, amounts to about half of the habitable area of the earth.

Looking at Mars from this point of view, it does not contrast so unfavourably with the earth
as is usually thought, especially when it is remembered how small a proportion of the earth's
area is really populated.

Were it not for the great eccentricity of the planet's orbit, the seasons upon Mars would be
very much the same in the different zones as they are on our world, as the inclination of the
planet's equator is only very slightly less than that of the earth. According to the latest
determination, the inclination in the case of Mars is 23° and 13'.

As the Martian year is nearly twice as long as ours (being 668 Martian days, which are equal
to 687 of our days) the seasons are of course proportionately longer in duration. The eccentricity
of the orbit, however, causes a much greater difference between the lengths of summer and winter
in the two hemispheres.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the northern hemisphere of Mars, spring lasts 191 Martian days; summer, 181 days; autumn,
149 days; and winter, 147 days.

In the southern hemisphere spring lasts 149 days; summer, 147 days; autumn, 191 days; and winter,
181 days.

Thus, in the northern hemisphere spring and summer together amount to 372 days, and autumn
and winter to 296 days.

In the southern hemisphere, however, spring and summer have 296 days, whilst autumn and winter
last 372 days; so that the winter period of the year is 76 days longer than in the northern
hemisphere.

On the earth the winter portion of the year is seven days longer in the southern hemisphere
than it is in the northern hemisphere.

For this reason, our south polar snow-cap is larger than the north polar cap; and we should
naturally expect to find a similar condition upon Mars, only greatly accentuated. Astronomical
observation shows that this is the case, for while the northern snow-cap on Mars attains a
maximum diameter of slightly under 80°, the southern snow-cap attains a maximum diameter of
over 96°. The snow-caps are not perfect circles, but irregular in shape, and are, moreover,
not exactly opposite to each other.

Notwithstanding its much greater area the southern snow-cap melts to a greater extent than
the northern snow-cap does, owing to the intensity of the heat at the melting period. The northern
snow-cap usually melts until the diameter is reduced to about 6°, whilst the much larger southern
cap may be reduced to about 5°. In the year 1894 it disappeared entirely! The summer must have
been unusually hot.

So far as can be gathered from the records of our whaling and polar expeditions, it would appear
that our north polar snow-cap is from 20° to 30° in diameter when at the minimum; whilst the
southern snow-cap is nearly 40° in diameter when smallest.

       *       *       *       *       *

We had arrived upon Mars on the 24th of September 1909, according to terrestrial reckoning;
but according to the Martian date it was then the 26th of June in the southern hemisphere,
where Sirapion, our landing-place, is situated. The season was, therefore, midsummer, and as
Sirapion is in latitude 25° south and in the sub-tropical zone, the temperature was fairly
high. The mornings were much more clear and brilliant than those on our earth; the warmth and
general "feel" of the air at that time reminding me very much of what it is like in the south
of England between seven and eight o'clock on a hot sunny day. Those who enjoy an early morning
walk know how delightful and exhilarating it becomes towards that time. There is neither chilliness
nor uncomfortable heat; one feels a delightful sense of freedom and that it is good to be alive.
This is really the best and most enjoyable time on a summer's day. On Mars there was rather
more warmth but a greater sense of exhilaration. Of course, from near noon to about 3 P.M.
it was much warmer.

Usually a lovely rosy effulgence is seen in the atmosphere in the mornings and evenings. As
a rule, sunrise and sunset effects are much more ethereal and more beautiful than those on
the earth, the tints being more delicate and the whole appearance of the sky less broadly marked.
It is as the difference between the crude broad effects of a coloured poster and the delicate
effects of a highly-finished painting.

What, in our sunsets, would appear a deep golden colour appears on Mars as a delicate pale
gold, merging into bright silver. What with us is a carmine or deep rose, in Martian skies
becomes a beautiful rose-pink; whilst the darker, or Indian, red seen for some time at the
latter period of our sunsets is carmine in the Martian sky, and Indian red only appears just
at the last.

These tints are seen when the skies are of their normal clearness, but after the occurrence
of a great sand-storm in the desert and the upper air has become filled with fine sand particles,
the Martian sunsets are equal in variety and depth of colour to anything seen on our earth
during the months immediately succeeding the Krakatoa eruption. Those strange and intensely
coloured sunsets will doubtless be remembered by my readers who had the good fortune to see
them during the many months when they were visible after that great volcanic outburst in the
year 1883.

Sand-storms have been unusually prevalent on Mars during the present summer, passing over large
areas of country and obscuring the sun for considerable periods; so we have had several phenomenal
sunsets afterwards.

As the time passed on the days became cooler--the evenings being considerably more so than
on our earth in August, and twilight was very much shorter. Towards the end of the Martian
August evening dews began to be succeeded by slight hoar frosts.

The heat in the tropics is not nearly so intense as on the earth. On the other hand, in the
high latitudes near the poles, the summer temperature is higher than in similar latitudes on
the earth, because upon Mars there is no permanent glaciation except right at the poles.

We have, of course, seen the Martian polar stars. The axial tilt of the planet being less than
that of ours, and in a different direction, and its orbit being inclined 1° and 51' in regard
to the earth's orbit, it follows that the poles of Mars must point to a different part of the
sky, and a considerable distance from our polar stars.

In the northern hemisphere of Mars the polar star is a small one marked on our maps in the
constellation of Cepheus, and it is almost on the boundary between that constellation and Cygnus.
The pole star lies nearly in a line joining the brighter stars [alpha] Cephei and [alpha] Cygni.

The south polar star is a small one marked [symbol] in that part of the large constellation
of Argo Navis which is termed Carnia.

Although the polar stars are very small, they shine more brightly in the Martian skies than
the north polar star does to us, and are therefore more easily seen.

CHAPTER XXV

MANY THINGS SEEN UPON MARS--I RECEIVE SOME NEWS

During the remainder of our stay upon Mars we visited almost every important place upon the
planet, either by means of air-ships, motors, or by travelling along the main canals in splendidly
equipped electric boats.

We passed through the whole length of the Eumenides-Orcus, from its starting-point on the Phoeniceus
Lacus, in the southern hemisphere, to the Trivium Charontis, in the northern hemisphere--a
distance of 3540 miles, this being the longest canal on the planet. We visited the Solis Lacus,
or "Lake of the Sun" (an area larger than England), situated in the southern hemisphere, which
has usually been seen by our observers as a large dark patch, oval in shape. Indications of
changes in this area were, however, noted at the time of the opposition in 1907; and it is
not improbable that further alterations will be seen shortly.

Numerous important towns exist upon this area, and several canals connect it with surrounding
areas.

We visited the north pole in our air-ship, and saw the snow falling thickly, and rapidly adding
to the size and thickness of the snow-cap, it being winter time. We visited the south pole
and watched the fast-melting snow (the cap being almost at its minimum size) and the distribution
of the resultant water down the various broad channels which conduct it to the canals, from
whence it is carried all over the planet.

When it is spring in the northern hemisphere the winter snow-cap at the north pole will begin
to melt in like manner, and the water be distributed in a similar way. The melting begins about
the 1st April and lasts till July, and sometimes considerably later in the year.

Thus, during the Martian year there are two distributions of water--one from the north pole
and one from the south pole; and the growth of vegetation follows the passage of the water
as it flows downwards from the poles to the equator.

On our earth vegetation progresses in an exactly opposite direction. Beginning near the tropics,
where it is always summer, as the sun passes northward of the equator so vegetation gradually
appears and develops onwards towards the north pole. It is exactly the same in the southern
hemisphere; after the sun crosses the equator into the south the vegetation grows and spreads
towards the south pole.

The reason of this is that on the earth the supply of water by rainfall and snows is abundant,
and it only requires the warmth of the sun to cause vegetation to spring up again at the proper
season when the winter has passed.

On Mars the sun has the same action, but until the water comes down from the poles and furnishes
the necessary moisture, the sun can produce no effect and there can be no fresh vegetation.
Thus, on Mars, the flow of water is the determining factor, and vegetation follows its course
from the poles towards the equator.

Observation shows that this is the case, and it has formed one of the strongest arguments in
support of the idea of water conveyance by means of artificial canals. The opponents of the
canal theory seem carefully to avoid any mention of this argument.

While we were watching the melting of the snow at the south pole, I mentioned to Merna and
Tellurio, who accompanied me, that one of our scientific men, relying for support on a speculation
by a lady writer, had arrived at the conclusion that the snow-caps could not possibly supply
anything like the amount of water required. The writer in question had stated that the maximum
area of the southern snow-cap was 2,400,000 square miles; and, assuming it was composed of
snow of an average depth of twenty feet, this would only give an average depth of about one
foot of water over its whole area.

The whole of the dark areas on the planet covered at least 17,000,000 square miles, and as
this was seven times the area of the snow-cap, it followed that the dark areas could not be
covered with more than two inches of water. From this scanty and inadequate supply of two inches
of water allowance must be made for an enormous loss by evaporation; so, as the writer said,
"the polar reservoirs are despoiled in the act of being opened."

Tellurio at once settled the matter by saying, "Mr. Poynders, it is a very pretty theory, but,
unfortunately for its supporters, it is entirely wrong, the figures being inaccurate, and the
estimate of the extent of the area to be supplied, as well as the amount of water available,
is made under a complete misapprehension of the facts."

"The maximum area of the south polar snow-cap is usually more than 10,000,000 square miles
instead of less than 2,500,000 as stated, but it is sometimes still greater during a hard winter.
Then, where did the writer acquire the notion that the whole of the dark areas had to be covered
with water? Only the canals and trenches have to be filled, and, at the highest computation,
these would cover only 2,250,000 square miles! So even accepting her average of twenty feet
depth of the snow (which would give about one foot of water over the whole area of the snow-cap),
there would still be sufficient water to fill every canal and trench upon our planet to a depth
of nearly four feet six inches.

"Let us suppose we have 700 series of canals, each averaging 1400 miles in length, and each
series having an aggregate width (including the area of the irrigation trenches) of 2-1/4 miles.
You will see that gives about 2,250,000 square miles to be covered with water. My estimate
of the area to be covered is, however, much in excess of the real amount, as the average aggregate
width of the series of canals would be less than I have assumed, and the trenches are shallow.

"I must also point out that only a small proportion of the whole number of canals would be
in use at any given time, and the depth of the polar snows averages considerably more than
twenty feet; so a very much greater depth of water can be secured in those canals which are
in use. The main canals which are used for navigation purposes are, of course, much wider and
deeper than the irrigation canals. In the hotter regions many covered compensation reservoirs
are provided, and these make good the wastage caused by excessive evaporation where pipes cannot
be used."

"Thank you, sir," I said; "the information you have now given me entirely confirms the figures
as to the area of the snow-cap, &c., mentioned by Professor Lowell, but as regards the depth
of the snow and the size of the area to be covered, he has with scientific caution refrained
from estimating to the full extent which the facts you mention seem to warrant. In addition
to this, no allowance has been made for the water derived from the northern snow-cap."

Thus vanished the theory which was supposed to support the view that the canals must be hopelessly
unworkable, and could never be of any use for irrigation purposes.

It had also been argued that no intelligent beings would construct canals if the planet were
generally flat, as it would only be necessary to let the water flow over the surface as far
as it would go, and thus irrigate the parts reached by the water; whilst if it were not flat,
the canals could not be constructed at all.

I asked Tellurio "What he thought of this suggestion?"

He replied, "Well, sir--here we have a planet believed to possess only a very scanty supply
of water, which must require the most careful husbanding and economy in distribution; yet it
seems to have been calmly suggested that we would deliberately waste the precious fluid by
allowing it to flow at random over the small portion of our land which it would reach, where
it might or might not be required! Our engineers, I may say, are quite capable of overcoming
any difficulties arising from inequalities of the ground.

"If, as has been contended, the loss by evaporation would be so great in canals where the water
is fairly deep as to result in depletion of the supply, it is clear there must be a hundred
times greater loss from the same cause if the water is allowed to spread in a very shallow
pool over a large area where it would be totally unprotected from the sun! Then, again, every
part of our planet not reached by the water would become desert.

"No, sir," Tellurio added, "the Martians are far too intelligent to waste the water in this
fashion: hence their canal system by which the water is economically distributed where required,
and also protected from undue evaporation. It must not be forgotten that our canals are also
means of communication across the deserts, and without them distant parts of the planet would
be entirely isolated from the rest of our world, except for our air-ships.

"Our canal system has been a matter of slow growth and development. Beginning with the straightening
of the beds of old rivers and narrow channels connecting seas, the canals were then constructed
where they were most needed; but as time passed on, and our water supply from rainfall became
less and less, we were convinced of the necessity of adopting a complete system of canalisation
in anticipation of the time when our polar snows would be our only source of supply. This was
gradually carried into effect, and even now additional canals are being constructed to meet
the requirements of places not reached by existing canals.

"In order to secure the return of the water to the poles, and so ensure a future supply, it
is absolutely necessary that, wherever possible, the water should be conveyed in open channels
so as to allow evaporation to take place, otherwise much would be lost by soakage into the soil."

"Thank you, sir," I said; "those statements meet another objection which has been urged against
the possibility of the canals existing; it apparently being assumed that the whole system must
have been carried out simultaneously, and that the population of Mars would have been much
too small to admit of that being done."

"Our population is by no means small, sir, having regard to the size of our planet; and the
Martians, as intelligent beings, have always been in the habit of looking well ahead to ascertain
what provision would be required to satisfy our prospective needs. Your people take far too
narrow a view of these matters."

Thus many controversial matters were satisfactorily cleared up by statements of actual facts.

During our journeys over the planet we came across a large number of canals in different parts
which have apparently not yet been discovered by our observers. These were not all narrow lines
of canals, and many of them were double ones, so our observers have more work yet before them
in finding out these lines and recording them on their charts.

Professor Lowell, who has made many experiments in order to determine how distant a fine line
of known thickness (such as a telegraph wire) may be situated and yet remain visible to the
sight under ordinary atmospheric conditions for clear seeing, has come to the conclusion that
when Mars arrives at its most favourable position for observation, and other conditions are
satisfactory, it will be possible to see lines on the planet which are not more than one mile
in width.

As regards the surface characteristics of Mars, we found that it is generally very flat, and
that only here and there one comes across slight undulations, whilst hills and mountains are
very few indeed. There are, in fact, no high mountains anywhere; the highest altitudes rarely
approach 2000 feet, and such heights as these are quite exceptional.

This was quite in accordance with our expectations, because no mountains have ever been seen
upon Mars, though they have been carefully searched for by our observers. If there were any
elevations much exceeding 2000 feet in height they would have been visible sometimes when the
planet was passing under the careful scrutiny of our observers, and they could not have entirely
escaped observation.

In all probability Mars never at any time possessed mountains whose height would be at all
comparable with that of our mountains; for, according to scientific calculation and reasoning,
the planet's internal heat was never sufficient to have caused the formation of such high elevations
on its crust.

As the planet advanced stage after stage in its development it became colder and colder; all
upheavals ceased, and the height of any elevated parts upon its surface would thenceforward
be gradually and continuously reduced by weathering and erosion in the same way as has happened
in many places on our own world. We have no very high mountains in the British Isles at the
present time, but geology and physical geography teach us that many of the low elevations now
existing are merely the basic wrecks and remains of mountains which, in ages past, must have
been of considerable altitude. As the world ages and becomes colder its surface will tend to
become more and more level, and the rivers will become straighter in consequence.

As regards animals, we discovered that the larger varieties have become extinct, and that there
are at present no animals which can properly be termed wild or fierce, for they cannot exist
in the deserts without water or vegetation. Numerous animals, however, frequent the irrigated
parts where there is vegetation, and, though in a complete state of freedom, have for such
an extremely long period been in constant contact with the people that they have become quite
tame. The people always treat animals with kindness, and these free creatures are entirely
without fear of them.

Most of the animals are different from any we have upon the earth, but some bear a general
resemblance to ours of the same species, though they are all of larger size, and differ considerably
in details. Like the people, they have developed through the long ages, and have reached a
higher point than our animals, and a few have even developed the power of speech.

This may sound exaggerated--but just think! Many of our birds have been taught to speak the
human language, and a few have even acquired this power by imitativeness. Who that has kept
dogs, cats, monkeys, and horses has not observed the desperate efforts of some of them to make
themselves understood. All are not alike, but we often come across an animal which seems to
understand almost everything we say, but none has yet developed the power of making an intelligible
communication to us, although some try hard to do so. It does not seem beyond the bounds of
possibility that a few thousand years hence some animals, especially the monkey species, may
be able to speak a little.

The Martians do not use any of their animals as beasts of burden, and it would be contrary
to all their ideas to do so. On Mars nearly all heavy labour is performed by means of electrical
machines, thus both the people and the animals are spared much heavy work.

Our animals are often greatly overloaded, but we have a salutary law to protect them from this,
as well as from other forms of cruelty; and the persons responsible for the ill-treatment may
be punished.

Human beings, however, may be overloaded and, in many cases, overworked with impunity, for
there is no law to protect the unorganised workers. Is there not something wrong about this?

It may be argued that whilst animals cannot protect themselves human beings can; but, alas,
only too often the force of circumstances compels workers to endure anything so long as they
can earn a little to keep body and soul together.

       *       *       *       *       *

Flowers seem to be very plentiful here, and grow very tall and large. Many varieties bear a
strong resemblance to our variegated lilies, the flowers being brilliantly tinted, and often
measuring twelve to fifteen inches across. But, as upon the earth, flowers are found in all
colours and sizes, and in infinite variety.

Trees also grow very tall, many varieties resembling our palms, especially in and near the
tropics, where there are also many varieties of cactus. In the temperate and cooler zones trees
resembling our firs and pines are plentiful; whilst fruits, vegetables, and nuts, as well as
cereals, are grown in enormous quantities on the irrigated areas, as these products form the
chief articles of food amongst the Martians.

Insects are numerous on Mars, the conditions being very favourable to insect life; and they
are all on a very much larger scale than our insects, especially those which fly.

Everywhere we go we are received by the people with the utmost courtesy and kindness, and have
become much attached to those with whom we have been more closely associated. They are indeed
a most amiable, intelligent, and lovable people--always good tempered--dignified, yet ready
to display great enthusiasm when occasion requires.

The marriage tie is sacred and indissoluble on Mars, and divorce is therefore unknown; but
it is also quite unnecessary, for no cause ever arises for a dissolution of marriage.

When Merna was telling me about this, I asked him whether any attempt had been made to dispense
with marriage in any Martian community, stating that some of our advanced people were disposed
to do so.

He answered that "Some such ideas had been in vogue amongst certain of their nations about
two thousand years ago, and attempts were also made to abolish religious observances, but they
proved complete failures, and engendered strife. No nation adopting these views ever progressed
or prospered; the people were soon clamouring for the revival of their old institutions, and
since then no one had ever desired to dispense with them. Both religion and marriage are essential
to the stability and well-being of all nations, and the people are soon lost without them.
You may be assured," added Merna, "that those on your earth who favour such a change are quite
mistaken in thinking it would be an advance in civilisation, for, on the contrary, it would
result in a reversion to barbarism."

The Martian educational system is very thorough. In their earlier years the children all receive
a good education in general and scientific knowledge, then they pass into the technical, trade,
and business schools. Every kind of business and trade is thoroughly taught by teachers who
are not mere doctrinaire professors, but persons who have made their mark as good, capable,
and practical workers in the particular trade or business which they are required to teach.

We went over several of the ordinary and trade schools, and found them fully equipped with
everything likely to be required for a thorough educational course of training.

In the warmer zones we found several large open-air amphitheatres capable of accommodating
from 10,000 to 100,000 persons. All around the central arenas of these were rings of beautiful
scented flowers and shrubs. Both children and adults spend much of their leisure time in open-air
recreation and athletic games, and I was therefore not surprised to find them all so bright
and happy, as well as robustly healthy in appearance.

As a result of our visit, the Martians now enjoy a new out-door recreation; for M'Allister,
pressing John into his service, has initiated them into all the mysteries of golf, for which
pastime their level country is well suited. I have been much amused to note that, whilst M'Allister
has always expressed great admiration of the mechanical skill of the Martians, they have risen
in his estimation at least 100 per cent. since they have taken so enthusiastically to his national
game, and he is never tired of telling us what a "sensible" people they are!

He has taken up their training with all his Scottish vim and thoroughness, and has insisted
upon the full rigour of the game. All attempts to Martianise its various technical terms he
has courteously, but firmly, suppressed; the Martian vocabulary has, therefore, been considerably
extended by the addition of the numerous fearsome technicalities which sound so strange, even
to an Englishman who is not familiar with the game. Whatever may be the ultimate result to
the Martians, there is no doubt but that M'Allister is most thoroughly enjoying himself.

Tellurio informed me that their medical men have very little to do in the way of curing ailments,
their studies and efforts being mainly directed to the prevention of disease; consequently
disease and illness are very rare, and many of the diseases which afflicted the people in past
ages have been entirely eradicated.

The use of radium as a medical accessory has been known to them for a very long period, and
they are able to prepare and utilise it without the slightest risk of any untoward results.

Another large factor in ensuring a strong and healthy population is the methodical system they
adopt in planning all their towns. We in England have only recently realised the necessity
of town-planning and the advantages of garden cities. On Mars, however, town-planning has been
most systematically carried out for centuries; all their towns are glorified garden cities,
presenting a happy combination of beauty, utility, and healthfulness.

The general arrangement is as follows: On a circular area, varying from one to five or more
miles in diameter, according to circumstances, is the central portion of the town, containing
the splendid administrative and business buildings, museums, winter-gardens, educational establishments,
and places of amusement, as well as many fine residences. Surrounding this area is a wide ring-canal,
on the farther side of which is the outer zone of the town, united to the central portion by
many wide and handsome bridges. On the outer zone are extensive residential areas, then a zone
of factories and workshops, and beyond that an area often extending for miles, which is covered
with cereals and vegetables, fruit trees and nut trees. Outside all is a zone of timber trees.
The town and its surroundings, therefore, cover a vast area.

The canals radiate in all directions from the outer edge of the wide ring-canal, and all quays,
wharves, and warehouses are alongside of these canals. Thus the ring-canal is kept quite clear
of all such buildings, but all round both sides of it are beautiful terraces of white stone,
with numerous pavilions, broad boulevards, winter-gardens, and promenades.

All the buildings have open spaces or gardens around them, thus securing ample allowance of
light and air. Smoke is quite unknown; no noxious gases or vapours are discharged into the
atmosphere from any of the factories, but all such emanations which cannot be absolutely destroyed
are purified, condensed, or otherwise dealt with within the buildings. Thus the air is always
kept pure and wholesome.

From this description it will be seen that the planning of a town is very systematic, and that
it much resembles a wheel. The hub is the central part of the town; the spokes are represented
by the bridges; and the outer rim--a very wide one--contains the outer zones.

Besides the gardens there are large open spaces where air-ships have their stations, from whence
they can start, or on to which they can descend. The air-ships, also, are usually constructed
so that they can descend into the canals, on which they can not only float but be propelled.

Many of these town areas are the oases, about which so much has been said, and which, like
many other Martian details, have been described as illusions. I only wish we had a plentiful
supply of such illusions in our own old country!

One of the oases we visited was the Lucus Ascræus, in the northern hemisphere. A large number
of canals converge from all directions on to this spot--seventeen of them are marked on our
maps--so I expected to find it a place of considerable importance. It is, in fact, a very thriving
business and manufacturing place--the Birmingham of Mars, besides being also one of the many
centres of government. Like most of the manufacturing towns, it is near the tropical region--because
the Martians derive most of their heat and power from solar emanations which they have discovered,
and these they store up and transmit to very distant places for use when required. Nearly all
the places on Mars to which several canals converge are busy centres of trade and contain large
populations.

There are numerous large towns near the canals on all the dark areas, differing only in detail
from those on the oases, the general plan being the same.

I remarked to John that "I thought the towns on the dark areas ought to show as rounded spots
slightly darker in tint than the surrounding dark areas. Where several towns were close together
they would probably be seen as a single spot, large in area and irregular in shape. It seems
strange that, except for a few shown on Professor Lowell's charts, they have not been seen
by our astronomers; but perhaps during the present near approach of Mars to the earth some
of our keen-sighted observers who possess large instruments may see and take note of many more
of these dark rounded spots, as they are very numerous, and new towns are in course of development."

During the spring and summer a large number of the people find employment in the regions near
the poles, especially those whose work is connected with the canal system and who have to see
that the water from the melting snow-caps is turned into the proper channels and everything
connected therewith kept in good working condition. All these workers, however, migrate to
warmer latitudes as the very long and dreary winter approaches.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have just received some interesting and very unexpected news which, as some writer says,
"gives me furiously to think."

John and M'Allister came to me asking anxiously whether I had fixed the date for our departure.

I replied that we should probably keep to our original programme and leave about the beginning
of December, but asked John why he was so anxious to know?

"Well, Professor," he answered, "there is more than one reason for my question. I do not think
our stay should be prolonged. Haven't you noticed any change in us?"

I replied that "I had not seen any particular change or alteration in them, except that in
build and general appearance they were becoming more like the Martians."

"Yes, Professor," exclaimed John, "that's just it. I don't know whether it is the Martian air
or the Martian food, or the combination of both, but we certainly are becoming more like Martians
every day. Our eyes are becoming luminous, our complexions and features are changing, and,
by Jove! if I haven't grown nearly two inches since we came here! If I go on like this I shall
soon be such a giant that I shall not care to go back at all."

"Really, John," I said, "is it so bad as that? Now I come to look at you critically you certainly
do look taller; and I can see a little luminosity in M'Allister's eyes, and rather more in
yours. I suppose, being the youngest, you are more susceptible than M'Allister or myself."

"Yes, I think that must be the case, Professor," remarked John.

"However," I added, looking at him and smiling, "you told me there were more reasons than one,
so I suppose you have kept the weightiest reason to the last."

"Well, I don't know about its being the weightiest reason," he answered, "but we shall require
nearly four months to accomplish our journey to England after we leave here, and I reckon that
by that time my stock of tobacco will be pretty nearly used up. I have given a lot away to
our Martian friends, and I've tried some of the native growth; it's rather decent stuff, but
not a patch upon my mixture."

I burst out laughing in such a hearty fashion that it set them off too, as I remarked, "Ah,
John, I had a shrewd idea that there was something more behind your anxiety than the fact that
you were becoming Martianised."

"Heh, John," exclaimed M'Allister, touching him playfully on the shoulder, "the Professor had
you all right that time, I'm thinking!" John blushed up to the eyes, and said no more.

Ultimately it was agreed that it would be well to leave Mars on the 1st December, according
to terrestrial reckoning.

So that matter was settled; but, just after they had left, Merna and Eleeta came in, both looking
very glowing and happy.

After the usual greetings and a few casual remarks, Merna announced that he and Eleeta were
to be united in the coming autumn.

I was a little surprised at the suddenness of the announcement, but at the same time exceedingly
pleased; so, embracing them, I congratulated them heartily and wished them every happiness;
then they left to tell some one else the news.

But, as I have said, these things "gave me to think." We had seen many evidences of their genius
in engineering and mechanical undertakings, but we found that they excelled in every art and
science, and their achievements made terrestrial accomplishments appear poor and even paltry
by comparison. Whether we examined their sculpture, paintings, pictures, or photographs--which
latter they take direct and at one operation, with all the natural tints--or whether we listened
to music, our verdict was perforce the same--"We had not previously known anything to equal it."

We have all become fairly accustomed to seeing numerous air-ships moving in all directions
across the sky in the daytime, but it still seems strange to us to see the lights of the air-ships
flitting about the nocturnal sky.

I mentioned this to Merna, and he remarked that no doubt it did seem rather strange to us,
adding that my mention of air-ships was singularly apropos of what was then in his mind, for
he was just about to inform us that an interesting aerial display had been arranged and was
to take place that evening, with the view of affording us some idea of Martian out-door entertainments.

We all expressed our thanks, and our appreciation of the kindness we were receiving from the
Martian nation; and I ventured to suggest that probably we were indebted to him for a considerable
proportion of it.

He answered that it was true he had taken some share in this affair and in a few of the arrangements
for the functions we had already attended, but that many others had done the same, for it was
natural to the Martians to do all in their power when any help was needed. As we were strangers
from another world they all vied with each other in making suggestions and arrangements which
would afford us pleasure, or help to enable us to see all that was possible in their world.

We were fully aware that this was the case, for we were received with kindness and welcome
wherever we went.

Merna's affection for me seemed unbounded, and his love was shown in every action. Yet, like
all the other Martians, he was never obtrusively demonstrative, everything being done in a
quiet and natural manner. When on the earth his disposition had been very pleasing, but now
his Martian nature seemed to have endowed him with a capacity for loving far transcending that
of his human nature.

He was the same towards John, and we often spoke about it in Merna's absence, whilst M'Allister
had become as much attached to him as we were.

Just before sunset Merna rejoined us, and we passed out of the city into the open country to
a spot not far from the place where we had landed from the Areonal. Here we found a large concourse
of people assembled, and their numbers were being added to by fresh arrivals every minute.
On looking upwards we saw air-ships speeding towards us from every quarter. Some brought passengers
and landed them, but it was evident that most of the air-ships were about to take part in the
display, as they remained up in the air instead of coming down to the ground.

We met many Martians whom we knew, and were introduced to others, so the time passed quickly
in interesting conversation.

As soon as darkness fell Merna informed us that the display was about to commence, adding that
he had purposely refrained from giving us any inkling of its nature, as he thought the unexpected
would afford us greater pleasure.

We were gazing upwards at the vast assemblage of air-ships, which were lit up by the ordinary
lamps used when travelling at night, when suddenly the whole sky became brilliant with the
glow of countless thousands of coloured lights, and the air-ships began to move into their
allotted positions.

Every ship--and there was a very large number of them--was covered all over with electric lamps.
Some of the ships had all red lights, others all blue, others yellow, and so on through the
whole range of tints known to us, besides many tints which we had never seen before.

The evolutions began with the formation of simple geometrical designs, starting with a complete
circle of immense diameter. Then, inside this circle of many-coloured lights other ships took
up their position, and, before we were prepared for anything, a triangle of lights had been
formed. It was clear that even in their amusements the Martians were scientific; for here outlined
in glowing colours was the familiar geometrical figure of an equilateral triangle inscribed
within a circle, perfectly worked out on a most gigantic scale, and very pretty it was. Quickly,
another triangle was formed across the first one, the result being a six-pointed star; and
so on with several other more elaborate geometrical figures. The rapidity and certainty with
which these air-ships took up the requisite positions and showed their coloured lights in the
appropriate places was marvellous to see.

After about a dozen geometrical figures had been formed there ensued a rapid and bewildering
movement of the ships towards the southern vault of the sky. Coloured lights flashed and whirled
about in what, for a few minutes, seemed chaotic confusion, then suddenly the chaos was transformed
into order. The vessels formed up in long rows one below the other, each row having one distinctive
colour: a little movement of the ships from the centre to each end, in a downward direction,
and the straight rows were transformed into complete semicircles concentric with each other,
their bases seeming to reach the ground. Then they closed together, and lo! right across the
sky shone a perfect representation of a rainbow (an extremely rare phenomenon upon Mars) glowing
in brilliant light, with every tint and nuance accurate, and a thousand times brighter than
any rainbow we had ever seen. It was magnificent!

Further rapid movements followed: the semicircles were broken up; the large vessels now being
arranged in a long straight line across the sky, with the smaller vessels in another line just
below and in front of them. The electric lamps were then instantaneously extinguished, and
all was darkness. But only for a moment; then from the top of every vessel numerous immense
pillars of coloured lights shot upwards into the sky.

We gazed at this in some perplexity, wondering what it all meant, as the design gradually developed
to its completion. Then John touched my arm, excitedly exclaiming, "Look, Professor; it is
the spectrum of the sun!" Yes, that it was, and never had we gazed upon such an immense and
glorious spectrum. We pointed out to each other the lines of hydrogen, sodium, strontium, and
many others, all of which were truly depicted, both in colour and position. These lines were
formed by the lights of the smaller vessels shown against the background of the lights on the
large vessels, and we noticed that all the Martians around us quickly recognised what the lights
represented.

Next we had a representation of the spectrum of Sirius, then that of Aldebaran, and after that
a spectrum which we were unable to identify. Merna explained that it was the spectrum of their
south polar star. A few others were shown, then the line arrangement of the ships was again
broken up, the search-lights extinguished, and the coloured lamps once more shone out.

Many of the ships now rushed across the sky over our heads in all directions, and, after a
few evolutions, the whole were seen arranged so as to form four immense concentric circles,
with a considerable space between each ship.

The ships in the two inner circles then began to move slowly, and passed in two wavy lines
alternately in front of one ship and behind the next ship in the outer circles, the serpentine
movement gradually becoming more and more rapid; and most wonderful changes of colour were
produced by the passage of the vessels past those lighted with lamps of another colour. Swifter
and swifter became the speed until it seemed utterly impossible that these intricate movements
could go on without resulting in a series of collisions and disasters. Yet, with all this bewildering
whirling, twisting, and intertwining, the ships were guided on their courses with consummate
skill and with an unerring accuracy which was marvellous to behold.

Another shake of the aerial kaleidoscope and the vessels were seen drawn up in three parallel
lines on the east and three on the west. Then the search-lights again flashed out, filling
the whole intermediate area of the sky with beams of brilliant coloured light, which were caused
to oscillate sideways and overlap, producing a most gorgeous intermingling of glowing colours.
The Martians certainly had a complete understanding of all the peculiarities connected with
mixtures of coloured lights.

Up to this time silence had reigned, for no sound came to us from this vast aerial fleet; but
now there burst forth from both ranks of vessels strains of music of such ravishing sweetness
that I and my two colleagues were quite overwhelmed. It seemed as though our mortal bodies
were completely etherealised by the thrilling melodies which floated down to us from the upper air.

This was not all. When on the earth we had read of attempts to connect musical tones and chords
with the chromatic scale of colour, it being suggested that each musical sound had its own
distinctive tone-colouring. Now we saw it practically demonstrated, for each chord of music
was accompanied by changes in the colours of the search-light beams; and on comparing notes
afterwards John and I found ourselves agreeing that the colours shown appeared exactly to interpret
what our inner consciousness seemed to evolve, but which we could not have expressed in words.
It was like a scene of enchantment as we watched those immense bands of glowing colours changing
so rapidly and synchronising with the chords of music. Merna informed us that the lights of
each vessel were electrically controlled from the keyboard of one of the musical instruments
on the ship.

This was followed by a piece resembling a grand chorale: then an intricate fugue was performed,
the several movements being taken up in succession by the ranks on each side alternately, and
apparently flung to and fro from one side to the other of that vast area in magnificent sequences
and variations until it seemed that our human nature was so uplifted, and we were so filled
with ecstasy, that we could bear no more.

Many of the instruments were quite different from anything we had known upon the earth, and
when some of these were unaccompanied the music sounded exactly like a grand choir of Martians
singing in the heavens. It really seemed to us quite impossible that this concord of sweet
sounds could be instrumental music, so perfect was the vocal effect.

Several other pieces were played, each having its own distinctive character; then, after a
short interval, the search-lights were suddenly flashed on to the city of Sirapion; the beautiful
buildings with their domes, towers, and minarets looking exquisitely ethereal as they were
bathed in the beams of the glowing and ever-changing prismatic light. The beams were next directed
downwards upon the assembly, and we gained a truer appreciation of the immense numbers that
were gathered together.

After this short interlude we were entranced by the opening bars of a very grand and majestic
composition. As the first strains reached us I noticed that all the Martians who were seated
at once rose erect; every Martian bared his head, raised his right hand, and, with an expression
of rapt intensity and reverence, gazed towards the heavens. I and my companions immediately
adopted a similar attitude, for Merna explained that this piece was the Martian Hymn of Praise
to the Great Ruler of the Universe; and that its performance was regarded as one of their most
solemn acts of public worship.

The grandeur and majesty of this music, its melodious themes and thrilling harmonies, are utterly
beyond my powers of description; the air and sky seemed filled and pulsating with prayer and
praise, then resounding with grand crescendoes of triumphant shouts; each succeeding movement
of the music carrying it higher and ever higher in the scale, until at last it seemed to soar
and pierce the infinite, the final cadences dying away in melodious strains of celestial beauty
and ineffable sweetness.

Finally the air-ships all circled round the sky, then took their departure--darting off in
all directions--the sound of their sweet music becoming fainter and fainter in the distance
until at last all was solemn silence; then the great assembly slowly and quietly dispersed.

For some minutes none of us spoke, for each was in deep thought, so impressive and exalting
had been the effect of that wonderful and majestic hymn. When at length Merna turned to us
and asked if we were pleased with what we had seen and heard, we found it very difficult to
give adequate expression to our feelings.

Then M'Allister said, "Mon, it was beautiful, most beautiful! and I never felt so nigh to heaven
as I have this night!"

I remarked to John that "I had never expected to hear any music that would equal, much more
excel, the incomparable 'Hallelujah Chorus' in Handel's 'Messiah.' It had always seemed to
me impossible that any music could ever be composed which would even approach it in majesty
and power; but what we had heard that night certainly surpassed it."

On looking at my watch I found that the musical portion of this feast of tone and colour had
occupied nearly three hours; yet, as I remarked, it had seemed to me only a few minutes!

"Yes," John replied, "to me it has been an experience like that of the monk Felix in Longfellow's
'Golden Legend.' The monk went out into the woods one day, where he saw a snow-white bird,
and listened to its sweet singing until the sound of the convent bell warned him that it was
time to return. When he reached the convent he was amazed to find the faces of the monks were
all strange to him; he knew no one, and no one knew him, or had ever even heard of him. At
last one very old monk, who had been there over a hundred years, said he remembered seeing
a monk Felix when he first entered the convent. The records were searched, and it was found
that Brother Felix had left the convent a hundred years before, and as he had never returned
he had been entered in the list of the dead. So then

        'They knew, at last,
  That such had been the power
  Of that celestial and immortal song,
  A hundred years had passed,
  And had not seemed so long
  As a single hour.'

"That has really been something like my own experience to-night," continued John; "for I have
scarcely been conscious of the passage of time, and hours have seemed only minutes! I trust,
Merna, that you will convey to your friends our most grateful thanks for all the pleasure we
have derived from this magnificent display of Martian attainments."

M'Allister and I joined in this request, and Merna promised to comply with our wishes. He seemed
very pleased at our appreciation; and he told John that his quotation had recalled to his memory
the beautiful poem by Longfellow, which had been a favourite with him during his earthly school-days,
but had lain entirely dormant in his mind until now.

We all agreed that, however long we might live, the memory of that evening's events--the magnificent
display of aerial skill, the glorious harmonies of colour, and, above all, the majestic and
incomparable music--could never be effaced from our minds. We wondered whether aerial flight
would ever be brought so completely under control as to permit of a similar display in the
skies of our own world.

Merna replied that he was sure it would be quite possible some day, but it must be remembered
that what we had been witnessing was the result of centuries of Martian experience in aerial
navigation.

Merna then gave us an account of the progress of Martian discovery in regard to aeronautics,
from which we gathered that the earlier experiences of the Martians had been somewhat similar
to those of our own people. They began with bags of various shapes inflated with gas lighter
than air, similar to our balloons, then experimented with aeroplanes of various designs, also
bird-like wings, on a very large scale, actuated by electric and other motors. As time went
on, however, their atmosphere became thinner and thinner, until at last all such forms of apparatus
became nearly, if not quite, useless as a means of artificial flight.

After this they made use of numerous vertical screws of a spiral form, which were caused to
revolve with extreme rapidity by the aid of electrical machinery; and a few of the vessels
thus equipped are still in use. But the discovery of natural forces emanating from the sun
and from their own planet soon led to the devising of means for utilising this natural power,
and this has practically superseded everything else. Now all their air-ships and many of their
machines are actuated by this power, and are under the most perfect control. Air-ships are
used for all purposes of passenger traffic and freight carrying. So are vessels on the canals
and motor vehicles on the roads; and railways are, therefore, unnecessary.

CHAPTER XXVII

A FAREWELL BANQUET AND A PAINFUL PARTING

The time was nigh at hand when we must think about our arrangements for returning to the earth,
and, as it drew nearer and nearer, I became much troubled. I felt that it would be endangering
Merna's dear life to take him to England, for our terrestrial microbes would probably prove
fatal to a Martian, so it was impossible to suggest it to him; at the same time I felt that
I could not again part with my newly-found son, who was now all in all to me.

Pondering over the matter, I wondered whether the Martians would allow me to stay with them
and end my days on Mars with my beloved son.

Just then Soranho came to see me, and we sat awhile talking together. Presently he said, quietly,
"Mr. Poynders, you would I know desire to stay here with your son, but are doubtful about mentioning
the matter to me. Doubt no longer, my dear sir! We shall be proud and happy to have you with
us; and I am quite sure that I am fulfilling the wishes of our people when I now cordially
invite you, in their name, to make your home with us!"

Thus the Martian intuition had solved my difficulty; and, fervently thanking Soranho, I told
him I gratefully accepted his kind invitation and would remain upon Mars, although parting
with my two old friends would be a hard task for me.

It had been decided that we should leave on the 1st of December, that being the latest possible
date, as the earth was moving so rapidly away from Mars that each day's delay would mean a
longer journey. As it was, we should have about 215,000,000 miles to travel before we could
reach our destination; and, as that would require at least 108 days, we could not arrive in
England before the 18th of March 1910; probably it would be a day or two later, as our course
would take us so near the sun.

When John and M'Allister came in I went to the receptacle where my chart was kept and brought
it out. Placing it on the table, I carefully explained what would be required, and gave them
full instructions for setting and keeping their proper course, so as to head off the earth
on its journey. These instructions I had also written out in readiness, so that each might
know and be able to act in an emergency.

Then came the most difficult part of my task, and, in hesitating words and rather disjointed
sentences, I announced to them my decision to remain on the planet. John and M'Allister were
very much moved; but, as they saw the matter was really settled, they soon desisted from their
attempts to dissuade me.

During the day we received from Soranho an invitation, in the name of the whole people of Mars,
to attend a banquet on the day before our departure to enable them to bid us adieu.

This we, of course, accepted; and when we arrived at the place indicated we found that it was
the largest hall in Sirapion, the immense building being crowded with Martians from all parts
of the planet.

After the banquet Soranho rose and announced that their friends from the earth would be leaving
next day, and he trusted that all who could do so would attend at our point of departure to
give us a hearty send-off.

He then dwelt upon the pleasure which our visit and company had afforded them, and said the
good wishes of the whole people would go with us; adding that we might feel assured that anything
which the Martian nation could do, by means of transmitted influences, to aid in the advancement
of our world would be most cheerfully and willingly done.

Then he went on to make the announcement that, finding I had a strong desire to stay with them
and with my newly-found son, he had invited me, in their name, to do so.

This announcement was received with tremendous enthusiasm: the whole company spontaneously
rising to their feet, with repeated acclamations and expressions of satisfaction.

I then rose to express my heartfelt thanks for their kindness, saying that for many years of
my life upon the earth I had loved to study their planet; and now that I had spent some time
upon it and been the recipient of so much kindness and goodwill from all whom I had met, I
loved both their world and their people; and in deciding to accept the invitation so cordially
given in their name I trusted they would always find me a good citizen of Tetarta.

Merna translated this speech to them, and there ensued another scene of indescribable enthusiasm.

John followed with a very feeling expression of his gratitude for the welcome and kindness
he had received as a stranger from another world.

Then came M'Allister's turn, and his speech was a characteristic one.

Turning to Soranho, he said: "Mon!--no, I should say 'Chief!'--I thank you and all the people
for the delightful time we have had upon Mars, and can only say I'm very sorry to leave you.
But I have an old wife of my own in the world far across space over yonder, and away up in
bonnie Scotland. She will be looking for my return home; so, much as I should like to stay
longer with you, I cannot keep from going to her. Thank you all, and God bless you!"

I do not know how Merna managed to translate this speech, but it evidently gave the audience
as much satisfaction as the others had done.

So, with many hearty handshakes and expressions of goodwill, we left the hall at the conclusion
of the proceedings and returned to our home, where John and M'Allister were to sleep for the
last time.

The next morning we sat discussing the final arrangements for their departure, as they would
start on their return journey in two hours' time.

John and M'Allister were both much affected at my decision to stay upon Mars (or Tetarta, as
it will be to me in future), for they did not like the idea of leaving me behind, and made
some further attempt to induce me to change my mind on the subject. I felt, however, that they
were really convinced I was doing the best thing possible in the circumstances, and had no
hope that I would accede to their request.

I told them my decision was unalterable, and that, as we all felt the poignancy of the parting,
it would be better to take leave of each other now, rather than in public when they boarded
the Areonal.

As they rose to say farewell I said, "John, my dear fellow, I have kept a record of all our
doings since we left old England, thinking that, if published, it might prove of some interest
to my countrymen.

"I have a few words to add to it, and also a letter to enclose for you to take to my solicitors;
but Merna will hand the packet to you when you actually start. I know you will carry out my
wishes and see the book through the press, although I have mentioned the tobacco and laughing-gas
incident!"

John smiled and promised to do as I wished; then rising, I said, "So now, dear friends, a last
and long good-bye to each other. We have been close friends for many years and have many pleasant
memories of the times we have spent together; but, remember, our thoughts may still unite us,
though sundered by many million miles of space, and dwelling upon different worlds!

"When I was on the earth I was living upon a star of the heavens; here, upon Tetarta, I am
still upon a star of the heavens, but also along with the only living being to whom I have
been united by ties of blood and loving kinship.

"It is, as Merna once said, only a change of dwelling-places, and our kindly Martian friends
are delighted to keep me here. It is hard to part from you, but do not wonder if I say--'Here
I will live! here I will die!'"

Then with many, many a lingering handshake and words of mutual love and affection, we old friends
bade each other an eternal adieu.

As he reached the doorway M'Allister--as truehearted a Scot as ever his country produced--turned
towards me, and with upraised hand, glistening eyes, and lips quivering, exclaimed, "Mon, you
are doing the right thing, but I never thought I would feel a parting with an old friend so
much as I do this! God bless you, Professor!"

CHAPTER XXVIII

LAST WORDS TO MY READERS

As I have decided to stay here upon Mars, and have just taken leave of my two dear old friends,
I will now address a few last words to those who may read this record of our trip to Mars,
and then seal up the packet ready for John to take with him.

In the course of my conversations with Merna's tutors, I learnt much about the past history
of the Martian people; and they told me that it dates back to such a remote antiquity that,
as compared with theirs, ours is only the history of an infancy!

Mars, being a much smaller globe than the earth, cooled down and became habitable æons before
the earth reached that stage; and at the time when the earlier inhabitants of our world were
living in woods and caves--slowly and painfully fashioning for themselves weapons and tools
out of chipped flint-stones--there existed upon Mars a people who had then arrived at a full
and vigorous civilisation.

What wonder then that, with all these past ages of development and the incentive which the
present physical condition of the planet supplies them, the Martians of the present day are
in all respects, whether physically, morally, or intellectually, far in advance of the inhabitants
of our much younger, and therefore less developed, world!

The lessons to be learned from this, and from the physical conditions now prevailing on the
planet, are very similar.

Mars, gradually, but inevitably, becoming a vast desert, and with the end of all things certain
to arrive in a comparatively near future, pictures to us what must as inevitably be the fate
of our own world ages hence, unless it come to an untimely end by some catastrophe.

As Professor Lowell has pointed out, we know we have an abundant supply of water at the present
time, but we also know that, ages ago, the area of our world covered with water was immensely
greater than it is now. From the very beginning of our world's existence the process of diminution
of the water area has always gone on, and it will still go on--slowly, surely, and continually.

As an inevitable result of this decrease of water, and other natural conditions, vast areas
of land on both sides of our tropical zones have become deserts; and it is a scientific certainty
that this process of desertism will, and must continue, until it covers the whole world.

But, I think, the end will long be delayed, for the loss by desertism will, as it seems to
me, for ages be compensated by the new and habitable land arising from areas now covered by
water. The old sea-beds upon Mars are now the most fertile areas upon that planet.

As the desertism increases conditions similar to those of Mars will arise; the earth will become
more level, polar glaciation will cease, the atmosphere become thinner, and water vapour, instead
of falling as rain, will be carried by circulatory currents to the poles, and there be deposited
as snow. What the Martians have accomplished has shown us how to stave off the water difficulty,
and also how a highly civilised and intelligent people can bravely and calmly face the end
which they clearly foresee!

This is the lesson from the present physical condition of Mars.

On the other hand, the continual progress of civilisation upon Mars, and the very high development
attained there, coupled with what we know of our own progress during the ages past, give certainty
to the hope that our own civilisation will continue to develop, slowly indeed, but surely;
and also to the belief that, compared to what it will be in the future, our present stage of
civilisation is merely savagery.

Development will lead to progress in everything which tends to increase the intelligence, wisdom,
and happiness of the whole human race.

Our world has seen the rise and fall of many civilisations, but fresh ones have risen, phoenix-like,
from the ashes of those which have departed and been forgotten. "The individual withers," but
"the world is more and more." As it was in the past, so will it be in the future--ever-changing,
ever-passing, but ever-renewing, until the final stage is reached.

Since the earliest dawn of our creation the watchword of humanity has been "Onward!" and it
is still "Onward!" but also "Upward!!" The possibilities of the development of the human race
in the ages yet to come are so vast as to be beyond our conception; for, as Sir Oliver Lodge
has remarked, "Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, nor has it entered into the mind of man to
conceive what the future has in store for humanity!" Then:

  "Forward, forward, let us range,
  Let the great world spin for ever down the ringing grooves of change!"

This, then, is the great lesson which Martian civilisation teaches us. Surely it affords no
reason for the depression and pessimism in which some upon the earth are so prone to indulge;
but rather should it stir them to a more earnest endeavour, by gradually removing the obstacles
which now bar their progress, to improve the social conditions of the people; so that they
in their turn may improve their intellectual conditions, and lend their aid to the general
advancement of the world they live in.

Gloom, depression, and pessimism, of which we have had more than enough of late years, never
yet helped any one. They have, however, proved disastrous to many.

Remember our world is young yet! so set before yourselves the great ideal of the brotherhood
of humanity! Our religion teaches it; strive to help in attaining it; and in so doing each
may, and will, achieve something to help forward the gradual evolution of a brighter and happier
world for the generations that are to come. In that brighter and happier world I have faith, for:

  "I hold it truth with him who sings,
    To one clear harp in divers tones,
    That men may rise on stepping-stones
  Of their dead selves to higher things."

And:

  "I doubt not through the ages one increasing purpose runs,
  And the thoughts of men are widen'd with the process of the suns."

I knew that my dear old friend's thoughts and aspirations ever soared towards the skies; but,
as his last testament shows, his sympathies embraced all humanity, and I am somewhat reluctant
to add anything which must necessarily bring the subject down to a lower plane.

As a narrative of his own personal experiences in connection with our trip to Mars, the Professor's
work is quite complete; still I thought his readers would wish to know how it fared with his
colleagues after they left Mars, and have accordingly appended a few pages furnishing this
information.

I am quite convinced that, in deciding to remain behind on the planet, the Professor, as M'Allister
remarked, "did the right thing"; but after the many years we have spent together in the closest
and truest friendship, I miss him--ah, more than I can say.

It was really a tremendous wrench, that parting with my two old friends, the Professor and
Merna, and leaving them behind on Mars, although I fully appreciated the Professor's desire
to end his days with his dear son, to whom he had been so strangely reunited.

We started that morning directly after our farewell, and found a large concourse of people
assembled, who had come from all parts of the planet to see us off.

Soranho and many other high officers of state whom we knew were present, and, of course, the
Professor, Merna, Eleeta, and Siloni, as well as many others whom we had come to regard as
personal friends; and they did not allow us to depart empty-handed.

Merna handed me the packet which the Professor had referred to. We had no formal farewell with
the Professor--that was all over; but he came forward at the last moment, and we parted from
him with a loving hand-clasp.

After a most affectionate leave-taking with our other friends, with whom I took good care to
include Siloni, we boarded the Areonal. M'Allister at once took charge of the machinery, switched
on the power, and we immediately rose into the air, amidst shouts of farewell and repeated
good wishes from the assembled multitude.

We rose rapidly; but, so long as we kept in view of the place, we could see the people still
waving their adieus to us, and I frequently responded to their signals.

At last, when these lovable and hospitable Martians were lost to sight, I went into the Areonal,
closing and bolting the outer door, which was never again to be opened until we reached our
destination--our home in old England.

I have no doubt that, long after we lost sight of them, many of the Martians kept the Areonal
in view with their telescopes, and followed its course far into space.

I then directed M'Allister to set our course for our own world; and when he had done so, he
looked up at me and said, "Heh, mon, yon Martians are rare good folk, and I'm right sorry to
leave them!"

"Yes, so am I, M'Allister," I answered. He again looked at me keenly, with a queer smile on
his face; and remarked, "Mon, I'm thinking you are that, and that you have left something behind
you!"

I knew he meant that I had left my heart behind me, for I was thinking the very same thing;
but I turned away from him with a sigh, without answering. The matter was not one about which
I cared to speak just then, for I felt very sad and heartsore.

Our journey passed off without any exciting incidents, everything on the Areonal working most
satisfactorily. On the 4th February, 1910, we passed within forty-one million miles of the
sun, and the heat at this stage of our journey was terrific, but we had a magnificent view
of the sunspots, the corona, and other solar surroundings. In spite of all precautions for
counteracting the tremendous pull of the sun, we were drawn considerably out of our direct
course, so the journey occupied three days longer than we had anticipated. A large proportion
of our time was spent in the air-chamber, in order to prepare us for breathing the atmosphere
of our native world.

We passed across the orbit of Venus on two occasions, and had a near view of this splendid
planet (and also of Mercury), for many days; but apart from its larger apparent size and intense
brilliancy, we did not see anything more than we could from the earth with a good telescope.
The dense atmosphere and its glowing light prevented us from seeing any definite details upon
its surface.

Only three days late, we arrived at our home at Norbury on Monday the 21st March 1910, about
an hour before daylight. We descended quite unobserved, and having stowed away our good ship
Areonal in its shed and made all secure, we astonished Mrs. Challen by walking into the house
very soon after she had risen.

She seemed truly delighted to see us back again after our long and unprecedented voyage through
space, and as soon as our greetings were over she asked, "Where is Mr. Poynders?"

I said we would tell her all the news whilst we had breakfast, so she bustled about and got
the meal ready very quickly. When we sat down she listened with intense interest to our long
story, expressing great astonishment when I told her about our discovery of Merna upon Mars.
I had tried to keep her from asking about Mr. Poynders, but at length she questioned me so
directly that I was compelled to answer, though I dreaded the effect the news would have upon her.

So, as gently as I could, I explained that Mr. Poynders, having found his son a native of Mars,
could not risk bringing him to such a climate as ours, and, as he was unable to leave him,
had decided to remain on Mars.

Poor Mrs. Challen was so upset upon learning this that she threw up her hands, exclaiming,
"Then I shall never see my dear old master again!" and putting her handkerchief to her streaming
eyes, she hastened out of the room to conceal her emotion.

I felt very sorry for her, as I knew she had a great respect and liking for Mr. Poynders, with
whom she had been so many years.

During the day I called upon the Professor's solicitors, in accordance with his instructions,
and handed them the letter he had entrusted to me. They read it with many exclamations of surprise,
for the news it contained was enough to startle even staid lawyers out of their equanimity.

One of them rang a bell, which was answered by the managing clerk, who was requested to bring
in the sealed packet of papers left by Mr. Poynders before he went away. This was quickly brought,
and, when opened, found to contain documents settling an annuity of £150 per annum upon Mrs.
Challen, a deed of gift of the sum of £200 to M'Allister, and another deed settling all the
residue of his estate upon his old friend John Yiewsley Claxton.

There was also a will to the same effect, in case he might die before the papers were claimed;
everything being properly signed and in due order.

The solicitors both shook hands with me, congratulating me on this substantial addition to
my estate; but I told them I already possessed sufficient for my wants, and would greatly prefer
that Mr. Poynders should be here to enjoy his own.

I gave them some particulars of our adventures, and we had quite a long chat; then, taking
a cordial leave of them, I returned to Norbury.

I at once acquainted Mrs. Challen with her good fortune, but she was not to be comforted, saying
she would very much rather have her old master back again; and, as this was exactly my own
feeling in the matter, I expressed agreement with her.

However, she calmed down after a while, and I then asked her to consider what she would desire
to do in the future. If she liked to remain in the house and look after my welfare, I should
be very glad to have her as my own housekeeper; but said it was entirely for her to decide
the matter, and she could take her own time to do so.

She replied that she had neither relatives nor friends to trouble about, so there was no need
to take any time over it, for she would only be too pleased to retain her old position, and
would do her best to make me comfortable. I assured her that I had no doubt whatever upon that
point; thus it was all settled there and then, and she has remained with me ever since.

My aunt was long since dead, but my two cousins, James and Timothy Snayleye, lived in London:
so I thought I would go over to apprise them of my return home. They, however, received me
so very coldly that, beyond saying I had been to Mars and back again, and giving a few details
of what we had seen there, I did not tell them very much.

They asked a few questions now and then, but evinced very little interest in my affairs, though
I noticed them frequently exchanging nods and winks with each other. I soon left, but after
such a reception, was rather surprised when James Snayleye walked into my house the next day
and asked to be allowed to call in a day or two and bring with him a couple of friends who
were interested in Mars, and would like to hear anything I could tell them. I did not altogether
care about discussing my adventures with entire strangers, but, as he was so very pressing,
in the end I agreed to see them.

When they arrived I was greatly surprised to find that, instead of being persons of about the
same age as my cousin, both were elderly men. One was introduced to me as Mr. Josias Googery,
a Justice of the Peace, and the other as Dr. Loonem.

We had no sooner sat down than the doctor started the conversation by asking, in an unctuous
tone of voice, several questions about my trip--"Whether, ah, it was really true that I had,
ah, travelled all the way to Mars and back again in, ah, a vessel of our own construction?"

All the time he was speaking he was performing the operation known as "washing the hands with
invisible soap," a trick which always has an irritating effect upon my nerves.

In answer to his question I said, "It was quite true that I had been to Mars," and mentioned
a few particulars of our trip.

Mr. Googery then put a few questions to me, and, as I replied, he interjected after almost
every sentence that I spoke, "Ah! h'm, yes, just so," James Snayleye sitting by all the time
with a sneering grin upon his face which I found very aggravating.

When I had told them as much as I thought necessary, they both started cross-examining me in
such an impertinent and sceptical manner that at length I became extremely irritated, and declined
to answer any more questions. Whereupon Dr. Loonem proceeded to wash his hands again, saying
in an oily manner, as though addressing a child, "Pray, ah, don't excite yourself, my dear
sir; don't, ah, excite yourself! You know, ah, it's not good for you!"

This was too much for flesh and blood to bear, so I rose and said that as I had an important
engagement to attend to, I could not spare any more time that day, at the same time ringing
the bell for Mrs. Challen to show them out.

She did so, and returned in a state of indignation, saying, she did not like those people at
all, they were so rude; and that as they were passing through the doorway she heard the doctor
say, "It's a clear case enough; did you notice the gleam in his eyes? that alone is sufficient
to settle it!" To this Mr. Googery had replied, "Ah, h'm, yes, just so!"

"Well, Mrs. Challen," I said, "please understand that if either of those people calls again,
I am not at home."

"Certainly, sir," she answered with great alacrity, as she went out of the room.

It was no mere excuse, but perfectly correct, when I told those people I had an important engagement
to attend to. An old friend of mine, Sir Lockesley Halley, was President of the Dedlingtonian
Astronomical Society, and, after hearing my account of Mars, said he would be very glad if
I could attend the meeting of his Society on the following evening and give a short address
on the subject.

I was rather averse from this, as the Society was not a large one, though it had several clever
men in it, and I knew that the professionals who controlled it, and also the majority of the
members, prided themselves on being exponents of what they termed "sane and unsensational astronomy";
which in some cases amounted to saying that they were a long way behind the times.

It is an interesting fact that we owe a large proportion of our knowledge of planetary detail
to the work of enthusiastic amateur observers. In this Society, indeed, nearly all the best
observational work was done by the non-professional class; and when, as the result of their
systematic and painstaking work, they noted on their planetary drawings some lines or markings
which had not previously been recorded, one would have thought their original work would have
been commended. It was, however, not unusual in such cases for a professional to rise and calmly
declare that the new markings were only illusions, such as he had often predicted would be
claimed as discoveries.

Thus the amateurs were kept in their proper places; but the professionals did not always prove
to be correct in their strictures and pronouncements.

In these circumstances, I did not expect much credence to be given to anything fresh that might
be stated in my address, and therefore I rather demurred to Sir Lockesley's proposal. He, however,
made such a personal matter of it that, as he was an extremely able man and a good fellow,
I at last consented to do as he wished.

M'Allister accompanied me to the meeting and sat among the audience. After a few introductory
remarks from Sir Lockesley, I gave my address, which lasted about half-an-hour; but it was
received even more chillingly than I had anticipated, and the few comments made by the members
were nearly all indicative of scepticism of my statements and unbelief in my bona fides. A
scientific audience is usually rather cold and unenthusiastic; but, in the present case, except
for one or two isolated hand-claps, the vote of thanks was allowed to pass sub silentio. Sir
Lockesley, of course, could not help this, and I saw that he was much annoyed at my reception.

The meeting then split up into groups, lingering here and there to discuss my statements as
they moved toward the door; and M'Allister told me that, as he stood near a group, he heard
one man exclaim, "It's all arrant nonsense! five minutes with my 12-1/16-inch reflector would
convince any sane man that there are no fine lines to be seen on Mars, because none exist!"
This brought a murmur of assent; then some one else said, "Well, I certainly see some of the
lines with my 7-1/2-inch, but regard them as illusions"; and he also received some support.

Another man then spoke up, remarking, "My experience does not agree with yours, gentlemen,
for when I used a 6-inch refractor I could see some of the lines, yet felt doubtful of their
actuality; but since I have used a 12-inch reflector my opinion has entirely changed. The lines
are visible whenever the atmospheric conditions are favourable, and are seen with so much certainty
that I have long abandoned my doubts of their representing real markings!" "Hear, hear!" said
several, "and in a clearer atmosphere you would see still more!"

This was the Martian controversy in a nut-shell: for so much depends upon individual eyesight,
instrumental power, and good atmospheric conditions. Even the finest instruments fail when
observational conditions are unfavourable!

Many other people to whom I spoke about my trip to Mars exhibited the same incredulity as those
at the meeting. I showed two persons, whom I thought would be open to conviction, some photographic
views in their natural colours, which I had brought home with me. One of them looked at the
pictures, then handed them to his friend, with the remark: "Clever fakes, aren't they? you
can do almost anything with the camera nowadays!"

Similar opinions were either expressed or implied by others who saw them, so now I keep all
such things to myself.

Two days after the meeting Sir Lockesley called to have a chat with me, and, whilst we were
conversing, Mrs. Challen announced that two men insisted upon seeing me, although she told
them I was engaged.

"Well," I said, "show them into the next room and I will soon dispose of them"; then asking
Sir Lockesley to excuse me a few minutes, I passed through the folding doors which separated
the two rooms.

The men were perfect strangers to me, and clearly not of a class with which I should care to
make acquaintance.

"To what do I owe this visit?" I inquired, as I entered the room.

"Beg pardon, sir," said one of the men, "but we wished to see you on urgent business, and ask
you to come with us. There is a carriage at the door!"

"But who are you, and where do you wish me to go?" I inquired.

He hummed and haa-ed, then said, "A friend desired to see me at once, and it was only a short
journey!"

"Well," I replied, "I am at present engaged with a gentleman, but I must certainly decline
to accompany you at all without further and definite particulars as to why you wish me to do so."

Then the other man advanced, and said, "As you won't come quietly, there's no help for it;
so just look at these papers and you will see you must come!"

He showed me several documents, and, on reading them, I was astounded to find one was an order
for my removal to a private lunatic asylum, the papers being signed by Josias Googery, J.P.,
and Dr. Loonem; and others contained statements of the evidences of my insanity, signed by
my two cousins.

Of course I was furious, and refused to go with them, whereupon they rushed forward to seize
hold of me. I shouted for Sir Lockesley to come to my assistance, and he at once dashed into
the room. The two men, however, immediately warned him not to interfere, as they were acting
in a perfectly legal manner.

This he had to admit when the matter was fully explained to him; then he urged me to accept
the situation and go quietly, and he would take immediate action to secure my release.

As it was clearly useless to resist a legalised process, I gave in, and thus was I, a perfectly
sane man, incarcerated in a lunatic asylum! There I had to remain while Sir Lockesley saw my
solicitors, communicated with the Commissioners in Lunacy and others, and after much correspondence
and innumerable interviews, at last secured my release; but not until I had endured more than
a week's confinement in that horrible place.

It was all a scheme concocted by my scapegrace cousins to have me declared insane, and thus
secure control of my fortune, they being my only living relatives. But for Sir Lockesley's
presence and influence their precious plot might have proved quite successful.

I do not attach much blame to the magistrate and doctor, although they might have exercised
more care; but no doubt the Snayleyes had made such suggestions to them that they were prepared
to find insanity in anything I did or said.

Mrs. Challen, who had been much affected and distressed at my being carried off in this fashion,
was delighted when at last I returned home safe and sound after my release, and told her the
trouble was all over.

M'Allister had intended going on to Glasgow during the previous week, but had remained at home
at Norbury to assist in securing my release; doing yeoman's service in seeing various people
and carrying messages. When things had quite settled down again he went to Scotland and stayed
with his wife for three weeks.

Upon his return we discussed our future arrangements, and agreed to become partners for the
purpose of securing and working patents for various machines which we had studied upon Mars;
and this has proved a lucrative business for us, besides supplying our engineers and manufacturers
with greatly improved machinery.

Ever since our return home we have eagerly read all the scientific news concerning Mars that
has been published, for we were anxious to learn whether there had been any verification of
the Professor's forecasts as to what was likely to be seen from the earth at the opposition
of Mars in 1909. The result is very gratifying to us, not only as proving the correctness of
the Professor's pronouncements, but also as testifying to the keen-sightedness of some of our
astronomers and their carefulness and accuracy as observers; though, of course, there are still
divergences of opinion as to the meaning of what has been seen.

For instance, M. Antoniadi, of Juvisy Observatory, near Paris, has published a very interesting
account of his own observations with the fine Meudon refractor, which has an object glass 32.7
inches in diameter; and he has also furnished several beautifully executed drawings of what
he has seen. The most noticeable new features observed were two large detached pieces of the
south polar snow-cap, the altered shape of the Solis Lacus and other dark areas, numerous dark
rounded spots on the dark areas, much detail along the lines of the canals, and the observation
of scattered markings instead of lines.

M. Antoniadi lays great stress on the advantages of large telescopes; and, whilst making frank
admission that the drawings of Professor Lowell show the outlines of the Martian details more
accurately than the drawings of any other observer, he dissents entirely from his views respecting
the actuality of the canal lines.

With regard to M. Antoniadi's observation of dark rounded spots, it has been suggested by another
writer that these are volcanoes, and, moreover, that the canal lines are really cracks in the
solid ice covering frozen oceans and seas. These contentions involve the supposition that Mars
is still in the stage when volcanic action is prevalent, and also that what have hitherto been
supposed to be desert lands are really fields of ice. Mars has passed far beyond the stage
of volcanic activity; and the theory does not account for the ochre colour of the frozen oceans,
which are exactly the same colour as our deserts appear when viewed from a great distance,
for the sandstorms so frequently observed, nor for the general absence of any indications of
frost over a large portion of the Martian surface. It is also very difficult to imagine the
existence of a profuse growth of vegetation along cracks in solid ice; and I am afraid this
theory, like many others, fails to fit in with the observed facts.

I may remind my readers that the Professor suggested that many more dark rounded spots would,
under favourable conditions, be discovered on the dark areas of the planet, and he has stated
what they are.

As a result of his recent observations, M. Antoniadi has boldly declared that the supposed
canal lines are really separate spots and markings which, when seen with instruments of lesser
power than the one he used, appear to be lines, the network of canal lines being an illusion.
He contends that the markings he has seen are beyond the power of Professor Lowell's telescope
to resolve, and that what he has seen forms an unanswerable objection to the canal theory and
stops all discussion!

This argument has, however, been fully met in this book by anticipation; and, as will be seen
later on, Professor Lowell completely refutes it and shows that M. Antoniadi is mistaken. It
has also been pointed out that, if we could secure perfect seeing, the lines might really appear
as separate markings, and that apparent breaks and irregularities are exactly what we might
expect to find in connection with canals. I gather from a recent remark made by Professor Lowell
that he also holds this view.

Moreover, a discreet silence is observed with regard to the progress of vegetation on Mars
being from the poles towards the equator, instead of from the equator towards the poles, as
is the case on our earth.

This mode of progression can only be accounted for by the flow of water from the poles, and
such flow extending beyond the equator involves the artificial propulsion of the water, as
the flow is contrary to gravitation.

Professor Lowell's statements as to this peculiar growth of the vegetation do not depend upon
the results of a few casual observations, for he has given the matter most systematic and prolonged
attention, and noted upon hundreds of charts the dates when the vegetation has first appeared
in various places and latitudes after the passage of the water down the canals.

This is such a hard nut for the opponents of the canal theory to crack, that I am quite prepared
to learn that all these careful observations are merely illusions.

Professor Hale, of Mount Wilson Observatory, in California, has taken some photographs of Mars
which do not show any canal lines; and these have been eagerly seized upon as another proof
that the canals have no existence.

Unfortunately, these photographs do not show many well authenticated details which are seen
with comparative ease, nor the new details seen by M. Antoniadi. It is, therefore, no matter
of wonder that they do not show the much fainter canal lines. If the absence of the canal lines
from the photographs is proof that the canals do not exist, then the photographs must still
more emphatically prove that these much more conspicuous details--which have been seen and
drawn by M. Antoniadi and scores of other observers--are also illusions and have no objective
existence. Those who seek the support of these photographs for their views must be left to
extricate themselves as best they can from the dilemma in which they are now placed in regard
to the observations and drawings of those highly skilled observers.

The photographs were taken with a sixty-inch telescope, and possibly this very large aperture
was not stopped down sufficiently to secure on the photographic plates such very fine detail
as the canal lines; on the other hand, the atmospheric conditions at the moments of exposure
of the plates may have been unfavourable for good definition. However good the photographs
may be, the deductions drawn from them are erroneous.

Against such purely negative evidence--which never affords good ground for argument--we must
set the positive evidence of Professor Lowell's numerous photographs, which do show many of
the canal lines and also confirm the drawings of observers.

Professor Schiaparelli, who has been appealed to on the subject, still maintains the objectivity
of the canal lines which he was the first to discover, and repudiates the suggestion that the
new photographs supply any evidence against them. He remarks that during the last thirty years
many other astronomers, using more perfect telescopes than his, have observed and drawn these
canal lines, and have taken photographs which reproduce an identical disposition of the lines.
He adds that a collective illusion on the part of so many astronomers is impossible, and that
the photographs which do show the canals cannot be illusions.

Professor Lowell controverts M. Antoniadi's claim to have proved that the lines are non-existent,
and that the only markings are small separate shadings which are illusively seen as lines.
He points out that what M. Antoniadi has seen is exactly what would be seen when using a very
large telescope, and that it indicates poor seeing instead of good definition. He remarks that
when using such large instruments, which are so much more affected by atmospheric conditions
than smaller ones, the diffraction rings round a star (which should appear as complete concentric
circles) begin to waver, then break up into fragments--a sort of mosaic--and finally end in
an indiscriminate assemblance of points. In certain kinds of bad seeing the parts may seem
quite steady, but the fact that the mosaic exists is proof positive of poor seeing. What happens
to the rings in such circumstances must also happen to fine lines! the mosaic effect seen by
M. Antoniadi is therefore "the exact theoretic effect that a large aperture should produce
on continuous lines, such as the canals, and always does produce in the case of the rings in
the image of a star!"

It has been stated that Professor Lowell had admitted the illusory nature of the canal lines.
His reply, however, is emphatic: "I have never made any retractation as to the reality and
geometricism of the canals; they are marvellous beyond conception, and are only doubted by
those who never observed the planet itself sufficiently well."

Seeing an announcement that Professor Lowell had arrived in England for the purpose of lecturing
on "Planetary Photography" at the Royal Institution of Great Britain, M'Allister and I made
up our minds to be present at the lecture, a resolution which, I am glad to say, we carried
into effect.

In the course of his lecture Professor Lowell gave an account of the methods of planetary photography
initiated and carried on with such success at the Lowell Observatory; and then proceeded to
give some interesting particulars of his observations of Mars at the opposition of 1909, which
resulted in one of the most important discoveries ever recorded in connection with that planet.

He stated that on the 30th September, 1909, when the region of the desert to the east of Syrtis
Major came into view, after its periodic six weeks' invisibility due to the unequal length
of the days of the earth and Mars, some long new canals were plainly observed which had not
been visible when the region was previously in view. A long and careful investigation of fifteen
years' records proved absolutely that not only had these canals never been seen before, but
that they could not have existed. They are on a region which is frequently very favourably
situated for observation, and could not possibly have been overlooked, for they are now the
most conspicuous objects on that part of the planet. It is beyond question that they are not
only new to us but new to Mars!

The two main canals run in a south-easterly direction from Syrtis Major, and with them are
associated two smaller ones and at least two new oases; while, from their inter-connection,
they are all clearly parts of one and the same addition to the general canal system; for they
now fit in with the system as though they had always formed part of it. These new canals were
not only seen and drawn, but several photographs were taken at different times.

Consider what this great discovery really means! In a region which has never been anything
but a desert during the whole period over which our observational knowledge of Mars has extended,
there are now strips of land many hundreds of miles in length and miles wide that have become
fertile almost under our very eyes; and this result has been brought about by the passage through
them of water which has artificially been carried there for the purpose of irrigation! We know
this is so, for what we see is the growth of vegetation; and the systematic way in which the
new canals have been fitted into the existing canal scheme proves the artificiality of the
whole system.

Some sensational statements in the Press have fostered in many minds the idea that all these
hundreds of miles of new canals were constructed within the very short period of six weeks!
This is altogether wrong. It is the vegetation that has grown in six weeks, in consequence
of the turning on of the water to the irrigation works. We have good scientific reasons for
believing that irrigation works on Mars could be accomplished much quicker than on the earth;
but, as the telescope does not enable us to see the works, we do not know how long they may
have taken to construct. It may have been months, or years. We only see the results of the
works when actually in operation.

When we consider these works and their results, surely it becomes impossible to resist the
evidence of intelligent design which they furnish; while if we also remember the very recent
development of these canals, the existence of life upon Mars at the present time seems to be
demonstrated beyond the possibility of reasonable doubt! In what physical form that life is
enshrined even our science must fail to reveal. Professor Lowell, however, pointed out that
the inhabitants of Mars are not necessarily human beings, but their work clearly proves that
they are beings endowed with a very high degree of intelligence. A study of the canal system
reveals a marvellous conception marvellously carried into effect.

Observers at Flagstaff have, therefore, practically seen the completion of a work which is
the creation of intelligent beings on Mars; and in the remarkable photographs shown we were,
so to speak, able to look upon the results of that work--fertility in a region which had previously
been an arid desert.

The water, as the lecturer remarked, was probably not in all cases conveyed by means of canals
dug out of the soil, but we know that in some way--whether by canals, or by trunk lines of
pipes and smaller subsidiary pipes, or otherwise--the land has been artificially irrigated
and fertilised by water, which could not possibly have taken the course it has without being
intelligently directed. Tunnelling would be easy on Mars.

Professor Lowell spoke of these matters in well-weighed and well-chosen phrases, which carried
conviction of his earnestness and sincerity to the minds of his hearers; and we observed that
the audience was evidently profoundly impressed by the importance of his statements. This fact
seemed to us very significant, as he was addressing one of the most brilliant assemblies--representing
many branches of science--ever gathered within the walls of the Royal Institution. The numerous
photographs showing the Martian canal lines were projected on to the screen by a lantern, and
thus their convincing evidence was clearly brought before the whole of that vast audience.

Another very interesting series of photographs showed the coming and going of the first frost
of the season in the antarctic regions of Mars. This frost was first observed and photographed
at Flagstaff on the 16th November, 1909, and other photographs were taken on the 22nd of that
month.

In connection with these, Professor Lowell quaintly remarked that, "To chronicle thus the very
weather on our neighbour will convince any one that interplanetary communication has already
commenced; and that, too, after the usual conventional manner by mundane greetings."

Referring to the photographs, it was pointed out that the human eye can see at least ten times
as much as a photograph can show as regards planetary detail. This, though not generally known,
is perfectly true, and it may be explained thus: We know that in terrestrial photography the
camera will reveal many details which the eye is apt to overlook; and, by very long exposures,
even celestial photography will give a similar result. In planetary photography, however, exposures
must be very short, and the picture obtained is so very tiny that it cannot show all that the
eye could see. Under good conditions, therefore, the eye at the telescope will always see immensely
more of the finer details on a planet than any camera could show.

The great value of the photographs of Mars lies in the fact that they demonstrate beyond the
possibility of doubt the existence of certain fine markings which many observers have seen
and drawn, but as to the reality of which others, less skilled or less favourably situated,
have been extremely sceptical. If the fine lines had no existence on the planet they could
not be photographed.

In drawing attention to the details on these photographs Professor Lowell emphatically declared
that, "The lines you see are 'certainties,' not matters admitting of the slightest question,
for all their strange regularity. Not only I, but all my assistants, have seen them thousands
of times the same, and sometimes with all the clearness and sharpness of etchings or steel
engravings.

"An optical mistake," he then remarked, "which has latterly been hailed as showing that the
lines were not lines but a series of dots, was made the other day in France. The observer saw
perfectly correctly, but one with knowledge of the optics of a telescope should have known
that the effect observed was the inevitable result of using an aperture which the seeing did
not warrant; as he could easily have assured himself by looking at the shattered rings round
the synchronous image of a star."

It may here be pointed out that these weighty and well-considered declarations--which are a
complete answer to M. Antoniadi's bold claim--were made by the most experienced observer of
Mars, who, as even his opponents admit, possesses the finest site in the world for his astronomical
work, and is equipped with a very perfect instrument.

Besides the splendid photographs of Mars, many views of Jupiter and Saturn were shown, exhibiting
clearly numerous fine details, markings, and wisps as to which much doubt had been expressed
when some observers had shown them on their drawings. These beautiful and convincing results
of the clever and original methods of planetary photography adopted at Flagstaff appeared to
come as a complete revelation to the majority of those present, notwithstanding their scientific
experience.

Probably never before had anything so wonderful as these results of skill, patience, and prolonged
research been exhibited, even in that great and historic home of science. As Professor Lowell
remarked in a fine peroration: "They exhibited something of the advance recently achieved in
our knowledge of solar science; on the other hand, they constituted in themselves the beginning
of a set of records in which the future of the planet might be confronted with its achieved
past, and which should endure after those who first conceived such registry had long passed
away.... They were histories of the planets written by themselves--their autobiographies penned
by light; and in their grand historical portrait-gallery astronomers yet to come might see
the earlier stages of the great cosmic drama which was slowly but surely working itself out!"

At the conclusion of this most interesting lecture M'Allister turned to me and said, "How I
wish our old friend the Professor could have been here to-night; he would have keenly appreciated
what we have heard."

"Yes, he would indeed," I answered; "but remember, he knows more now than any one we see here
could tell him about Martian matters!"

Before concluding, it may be of interest to state that Professor Lowell still maintains the
accuracy of the discovery made at Flagstaff that the existence of water vapour on Mars is demonstrated
by the photographic spectrum of the Martian atmosphere; and he asserts that the attempt to
disprove it has failed. A further discovery has since been made at the same observatory, viz.
that oxygen also is present in the atmosphere of Mars!

During the observations in 1909 several observers noted that, at times, very large areas on
the surface of Mars had been so obscured by a yellowish veiling that all details were entirely
blotted out. The announcement of this fact gave rise to sensational statements that a terrible
catastrophe had occurred on the planet. The explanation is, however, very simple--seasonal
mists arising from the canals, with the addition of clouds of sand particles in the upper air,
as the result of desert sandstorms, caused a temporary obscuration of certain parts of the
planet as viewed from the earth. Only this, and nothing more!

We have been interested to note that an English observer, the Rev. Theodore E.R. Phillips,
has observed some new details on Mars in the region where the new canals were discovered. Mr.
Phillips has in past years given considerable attention to this region, and observed several
changes in the Lacus Moeris, to the east of Syrtis Major. The lake disappeared altogether for
some considerable time, then reappeared. Last September he saw it again, and it was evident
some further changes had occurred; and he also saw some dusky shadings on the adjacent desert
of Lybia. There seems little doubt but that he actually saw, though imperfectly, the new canals
which Professor Lowell's much clearer atmosphere and larger instrument enabled him to see clearly.

From what has been related in the last few pages it will be seen that many of the forecasts,
as set forth in this book by our old friend the Professor, and his statements as to the Martians
being actively engaged in altering, extending, and developing their canal system, have been
amply verified by the observations of our astronomers; and I am confident that his other prognostications
will also be fulfilled in course of time.

Turning now from scientific matters to others affecting ourselves personally, I may say that
I have heard nothing more of my cousins the Snayleyes; and, after the failure of their mean
attempt upon my liberty and fortune, it is not likely that I shall again be troubled by them,
for they will naturally take good care to keep out of my way.

As the days and weeks pass by I often think of those we left behind upon that far distant world:
wondering how they are faring, and whether they have attempted to transmit any influences or
communications to us, for up to the present we have not been conscious of any such influences.

Kenneth M'Allister is a thoroughly happy man, as he is working for his own benefit, congenially
and fully occupied with matters connected with his beloved machinery. He is on the high road
to making a very large fortune; indeed, we are both doing remarkably well, and are, therefore,
able to give financial aid to many projects in which we are interested, having for their objects
the uplifting of the people, and the improvement of social conditions generally. It was only
yesterday that M'Allister remarked to me, "Heh, mon, if we continue to go ahead at the same
rate as we are going now, we shall both be millionaires before very long!"

Yes, we are doing well--there is no doubt about that; but, notwithstanding my present very
satisfactory circumstances and the certainty of a brilliant future if I stay here, ideas have
long and persistently been running in my mind that it would be far better for me to go back
to Mars, and--by Jove! strange indeed that I never thought of it before!--perhaps those very
persistent ideas are actually the outcome of Martian influences!!

The wonderful music I heard upon Mars still rings in my ears; and, at times, so thrilling and
peculiar is its effect upon me, that I feel as though I were being almost irresistibly impelled
to return to that planet. Well, I should very much like to see the dear old Professor and Merna
again, and also my many Martian friends. Then there's Siloni, whom I can never forget, for
mentally her image is ever before me. What a nice girl she was! If I were to return to Mars,
I wonder whether----?

Printed by BALLANTYNE, HANSON & CO Edinburgh & London

FOOTNOTES:

[1] The exact diameters of the planets are difficult to measure owing to irradiation, and estimates
of various authorities differ, especially with regard to the more distant planets.

[2] Most probably the larger planets possess satellites which have yet to be discovered.

[3] It is not yet ascertained with certainty whether Mercury and Venus rotate in about twenty-four
hours, or whether the period is the same as that of their revolution round the sun. The evidence
seems to point to the latter period.

[4] The "terminator" is the boundary between the lighted and the dark portion of the disc.

[5] Those who have seen the undercliff in the Isle of Wight will be able to form some idea
of the terraces of the lunar ring-mountains, as they are very similar formations.

[6] This is the case as regards separate satellites; but it may be
pointed out that a similar thing must occur in regard to the rings of
Saturn. The rings are composed of swarms of satellites so small that
they can only be termed particles, and these particles at the inner edge
of the "crape ring" revolve round Saturn in 5 hours and 33 minutes, the
inner edge of the ring being only about 47,000 miles from the centre of
the planet. The planet itself revolves on its axis in 10-1/4 hours.
Thus, an immense number of these minute satellites must revolve round
the planet in less time than it takes the planet to make one rotation.
It is calculated that the particles in the outer edge of the next ring
complete one revolution round the planet in 14 hours and 28 seconds. Some Account of Nature's Crops and How they
     are Grown. By SELINA GAYE. With a Preface by Professor BOULGER.
     With Sixteen Illustrations. Second Edition, 5s.

"A fascinating volume of popular science."--Times.

     SUN, MOON, AND STARS. A Book on Astronomy for Beginners. By AGNES
     GIBERNE. With Coloured Illustrations. Twenty-eighth Thousand.
     Revised. 5s.

     THE WORLD'S FOUNDATIONS. Geology for Beginners. By AGNES GIBERNE.
     With Illustrations. Seventh Thousand. 5s.

"The exposition is clear; the style simple and attractive."--Spectator.

     THE OCEAN OF AIR. Meteorology for Beginners. By AGNES GIBERNE. With
     Illustrations. Fifth Thousand. 5s.

"Miss Giberne can be accurate without being formidable, and unites a keen sense of the difficulties
of beginners to a full comprehension of the matter in hand."--Saturday Review.

     AMONG THE STARS; or, Wonderful Things in the Sky. By AGNES GIBERNE.
     With Coloured Illustrations. Tenth Thousand. Revised. 5s.

"An attempt to teach astronomy to small children ... it is very well done."--Saturday Review.

     THE STORY OF THE HILLS: A Popular Account of Mountains and How they
     were Made. By the Rev. H.N. HUTCHINSON, F.G.S. With many
     Illustrations. 5s.

"A charmingly written and beautifully illustrated account of the making of the mountains."--Yorkshire
Post.

     THE ROMANCE OF THE MIGHTY DEEP. By AGNES GIBERNE. Second Edition.
     With Illustrations. 5s.

"Agnes Giberne is always picturesque and interesting whether she writes of the stars or of
the depths of the ocean."--Illustrated London News.

SEELEY & CO., LTD., 38 GREAT RUSSELL STREET

THE ROMANCE OF MODERN PHOTOGRAPHY

ITS DISCOVERY & ITS ACHIEVEMENTS

BY C.R. GIBSON

AUTHOR OF "ELECTRICITY OF TO-DAY," ETC.

"Mr. Gibson tells the romantic story of the discovery of this wonderful art, and the steps
by which its range has been extended, until it can achieve results which only a few years ago
would have been thought impossible."--Newcastle Chronicle.

"The explanation of the complicated system of photographing in colours is particularly lucid,
and, indeed, the narrative is everywhere remarkable for its fluency and clear style."--Bystander.

"Should prove one of the most popular and fascinating of this writer's books, and will interest
all who are connected with photography."--The Photographic Monthly.

"A fascinating story of triumphs of thought and patience, and illustrated with remarkable photographs."--Church
Times.

"The author has made his book remarkably comprehensive, while there is not a dry or uninteresting
page throughout."--Country Life.

THE ROMANCE OF MODERN GEOLOGY

BY E.S. GREW, M.A.

With Twenty-five Illustrations. Extra Crown 8vo. 5s.

"Mr. Grew possesses the golden gift of a graceful style as well as a complete mastery of his
subject, and he has written a popular introduction to modern geology which any one can read
with pleasure and understand from beginning to end."--Daily Graphic.

"A fascinating outline filled in with many valuable facts and much well-founded knowledge of
the history and animal life of the earth."--Sheffield Daily Telegraph.

"Mr. Grew has done extremely good work in this volume of Messrs. Seeley's excellent 'Library
of Romance.' He is one of the few men who can make special knowledge interesting to the general
reader.... The illustrations are singularly felicitous."--Daily Telegraph.

SEELEY & CO., LTD., 38 GREAT RUSSELL STREET

THE ROMANCE OF THE ANIMAL WORLD

DESCRIBING THE CURIOUS AND INTERESTING IN NATURAL HISTORY

BY EDMUND SELOUS

With Sixteen full-page Illustrations

"Mr. Selous takes a wide range in Nature, he has seen many wonders which he relates. Open the
book where we will we find something astonishing."--Spectator.

"It is in truth a most fascinating book, as full of incidents and as various in interest as
any other work of imagination, and, beyond the pleasure in the reading there is the satisfaction
of knowing that one is in the hands of a genuine authority on some of the most picturesque
subjects that natural history affords. Mr. Selous' method is strong, safe, and sound. The volume
has numerous illustrations of a high order of workmanship and a handsome binding of striking
design."--School Government Chronicle.

"This is a very fascinating volume, full of picturesquely written descriptions of the life,
habits, and customs of a number of birds and beasts, including beavers, seals, bears, penguins,
crocodiles, and a host of other creatures."--Graphic.

"A fund of information and amusement will be found in the pages of this handsomely bound book.
From the lowest animals of all, the Infusoria, to the lion and the elephant, all come within
the range of Mr. Selous' observation, and he builds up out of the vast material at his disposal
a very readable narrative. The illustrations are carefully drawn, and are very true to nature."--Education.

"The volume would make an excellent present for an intelligent boy, being full of interesting
and sometimes thrilling stories from the wide field of natural history. It is well written
in a clear, easy style which is to be commended. Mr. Edmund Selous has made a most interesting
collection of striking facts, and the book has one of the prettiest covers that I have seen."--Daily
News.

THE ROMANCE OF MODERN EXPLORATION

WITH DESCRIPTIONS OF CURIOUS CUSTOMS, THRILLING ADVENTURES, AND INTERESTING DISCOVERIES OF
EXPLORERS IN ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD

BY ARCHIBALD WILLIAMS, B.A., F.R.G.S.

With Twenty-six Illustrations

"A mine of information and stirring incident."--Scotsman.

"Mr. Williams is most catholic in his choice, taking his readers to soar in a balloon with
the luckless Andree, to wander in African forests and Australian deserts, to seek for the North
Pole with Nansen, and even to note such an up-to-date expedition as that of the 'Discovery'
in the Antarctic Regions, to cite but the most prominent. Mr. Williams has done this work most
judiciously, ... a book which will delight both young and old alike."--Graphic.

"The book unites strong natural attractiveness with valuable geographical information to a
degree probably unequalled by any other that might be offered as appropriate for the purpose
of a gift book or the recreative library."--School Government Chronicle.

"It is a kind of epitome of the best travel books of our time, and is exceedingly well done."--Academy.

WORKS BY C.J. CORNISH

     THE NATURALIST ON THE THAMES. With Thirty-eight Illustrations. Demy
     8vo. 7s. 6d.

"Will give great delight to any lover of natural history.... It is a most fascinating volume,
and is illustrated in a manner worthy of the text."--Scotsman.

"From the first page to the last there is not a single page which the reader would not wrong
himself by skipping."--Standard.

"Quite one of the brightest books of popular natural history which have appeared in recent
years is Mr. Cornish's fascinating studies of 'Animals of To-Day.'"--Leeds Mercury.

     NIGHTS WITH AN OLD GUNNER, and other Studies of Wild Life. With
     Sixteen Illustrations. 6s.

"Cannot fail to be interesting to any lover of wild nature. The illustrations are numerous
and excellent."--Pall Mall Gazette.

     ANIMALS AT WORK AND PLAY: Their Emotions and Activities.
     Illustrated from Photographs by GAMBIER BOLTON, F.Z.S., and others,
     and from Drawings. Third Edition. 6s.

"Such a book as Mr. Cornish's shows how much there is to repay the intelligent observer of
Nature."--Times.

"Good as the former books were, we are disposed to think that this is even better still."--Spectator.

     WILD ENGLAND OF TO-DAY, and the Wild Life in It. Illustrated with
     Original Drawings by LANCELOT SPEED, and from Photographs. Third
     Edition. 6s.

"Those of us who are left in town in the dull days will seem, in reading these pages, to sniff
the fresh sea-breezes, to hear the cries of the sea-bird and the songs of the wood-bird, to
be conscious of the murmuring stream and waving forests, and all the wild life that is therein."--St.
James's Gazette. 6s.

"Every lover of animals will find abundance of attraction and entertainment in Mr. Cornish's
delightful volume."--Times.

     THE ISLE OF WIGHT. With Four Etchings and many other Illustrations.
     Super Royal 8vo. 3s. 6d. net.

     THE NEW FOREST.

Also a POCKET EDITION, 16mo, cloth, 2s. net; leather, 3s. net.

SEELEY & CO., LTD., 38 GREAT RUSSELL STREET

EVENTS OF OUR OWN TIME.

     A Series of Volumes on the most Important Events of the last
     Half-Century, each containing 320 pages or more, with Plans,
     Portraits, or other Illustrations, in extra Crown 8vo. Cloth, 5s.

     THE WAR IN THE CRIMEA. By General Sir EDWARD HAMLEY, K.C.B. With
     Five Maps and Plans, and Four Portraits on Copper. Seventh Edition.

     THE INDIAN MUTINY OF 1857. By Colonel MALLESON, C.S.I. With Three
     Plans, and Four Portraits on Copper. Seventh Edition.

     THE AFGHAN WARS OF 1839-1842 AND 1878-1880. By ARCHIBALD FORBES.
     With Five Maps and Plans, and Four Portraits on Copper. Third
     Edition.

     THE REFOUNDING OF THE GERMAN EMPIRE. By Colonel MALLESON, C.S.I.
     With Five Maps and Plans, and Four Portraits on Copper.

     THE LIBERATION OF ITALY, 1815-1870. By the Countess MARTINENGO
     CESARESCO. With Portraits on Copper. Second Edition. With many Illustrations. New
     Edition.

Uniform with the above.

     THE WAR IN THE PENINSULA. By ALEXANDER INNES SHAND. With Four
     Portraits on Copper, and Six Plans. 5s.

"Admirably lucid and well proportioned."--Glasgow Herald.

     GREAT BRITAIN IN MODERN AFRICA. By EDGAR SANDERSON, M.A. With Four
     Portraits on Copper, and a Map. 5s.

"Undoubtedly the best summary of modern African history that we have had."--Pall Mall Gazette.
Crown 8vo, 3s.

ALLDRIDGE, T.J.

     A Transformed Colony. Sierra Leone as it was and as it is. With
     Sixty-six Illustrations and a Map. Demy 8vo, 16s. nett.

     Thomas Girtin: His Life and Works. An Essay. With Twenty-one
     Reproductions in Autotype. Imperial 4to, £2, 2s. nett.

CAMERON, D.Y.

     Six Etchings by D.Y. CAMERON and WILLIAM STRANG.

     Madame: Memoirs of Henrietta, daughter of Charles I. and Duchess of
     Orleans. With 42 Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 7s. 6d.
     nett.

COLVIN, Sir AUCKLAND, K.C.S.I., K.C.M.G.

     The Making of Modern Egypt. Fourth Edition. With Portraits and a
     Map. Demy 8vo, 18s. nett.

     "Should take rank as the standard history of our labours in
     Egypt."--The Spectator.

CORNISH, C.J.

     Animals at Work and Play: Their Activities and Emotions. With
     Twelve Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

     Wild England of To-day and the Wild Life in it. With Sixteen
     Illustrations from Drawings by LANCELOT SPEED, and from
     Photographs. Crown 8vo, 6s.

DALE, J.M.

     The Clergyman's Legal Handbook and Churchwarden's Guide. Seventh
     Edition. Revised and brought up to date by J.S. RISLEY.

DE LA BERE, K. BAGHOT.

     The New Poultry Guide for British Farmers and Others. Showing the
     one and only way of making Farm Poultry a rent-paying industry, 1s. 6d. nett; full leather, 2s. nett; velvet leather, gilt edges,
     in a box, 3s. nett.

  Volume  I. Fancy & Humour of Charles Lamb.

     "   II.

     "   IX. Wisdom and Humour of Thomas Carlyle.

  "Decidedly natty and original in get-up."--The Saturday Review. 5s.

     The Indian Mutiny. By Colonel MALLESON, C.S.I. With Copper Plates
     and other Illustrations. 5s. With
     Portraits and Plans. 5s. With many Illustrations. 5s.

     The Refounding of the German Empire. By Colonel MALLESON, C.S.I.
     With Portrait and Plans. 5s.

     The Liberation of Italy. By the Countess MARTINENGO CESARESCO. With
     Portraits on Copper. 5s.

     Great Britain in Modern Africa. By EDGAR SANDERSON, M.A. With
     Portraits and a Map. 5s.

     The War in the Peninsula. By A. INNES SHAND. With Portraits and
     Plans. 5s.

FERRAR, NICHOLAS.

     The Story Books of Little Gidding: Being the Religious Dialogues
     recited in the Great Room at Little Gidding Hall, 1631-2. From the
     Original Manuscript of NICHOLAS FERRAR. With an Introduction by E.
     CRUWYS SHARLAWD, and several Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 6s.

FLETCHER, W.Y.

     Bookbinding in England and France.

     "One of the best examples of popular scientific exposition we
     remember seeing."--The Tribune. Autobiography (1834-1858), and Memoir by
     his Wife (1858-1894). With a Portrait. Demy 8vo. 16s.

     Imagination in Landscape Painting. With many Illustrations. Cr.
     8vo, 6s.

     Cheap Edition, paper cover. Demy 8vo, 6d. nett.

HEATON, Mrs. C.

     Life of Albert Dürer. With Sixteen Illustrations. 8vo, 10s. 6d.

HOW, W.W.

     Hannibal, and the Great War between Rome and Carthage. 2s.

HUSON, T.

     Round about Helvellyn. Twenty-four Plates in Etching and Aquatint.
     Imperial 4to, 21s. nett. Large paper copies (50 only), £2, 12s.

     Wireless Telegraphy. Popularly Explained. With Preface by Sir W.H.
     Preece, K.C.B., F.R.S., and many Illustrations. Sixth Edition,
     Revised. Fcap. 8vo, sewed, 1s.; cloth, 1s. 6d.

LEGROS, ALPHONSE.

     Six Etchings by Alphonse Legros. With a Biographical Note.

     The Yorkshire Coast and the Cleveland Hills and Dales. With
     Etchings and other Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. Large crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. Crowa
     8vo, 5s.

MCCARTHY, Justin.

     Charing Cross to St. Paul's. Illustrated by J. PENMELL. Crown 8vo,
     6s. Also bound in white
     vellum with gilt edges, each volume in a box, 2s.

MONKHOUSE, W. COSMO.

     The Earlier English Water-Colour Painters. With many Illustrations.
     Crown 8vo, 6s.

MORIARTY, G.P.

     Dean Swift. His Life and Writings. Cheaper Edition, with Two
     Portraits on Copper. 3s. 6d.

     Cross and the Spirit, The. Studies in the Epistle to the Galatians.
     Foolscap 8vo, 1s.

PAGE, J. Ll. WARDEN.

     Dartmoor, An Exploration of. With Map, Etchings, and other
     Illustrations. Cheap Edition, 3s. 6d. Pott 4to, cloth, gilt edges, 2s.
     With 37 Illustrations and a Map. 6d.

BENHAM, Canon, and CHARLES WELCH, F.S.A.

     Mediæval London. Large crown 8vo,
     5s. nett.

STIGAND, Captain C.H.

     Through the Unknown to Abyssinia. With Map and Forty Illustrations.
     Demy 8vo, 16s. nett. With Map and
     Forty-Five Illustrations. By G.F. SCOTT-ELLIOT, M.A., B.Sc.

  Electricity of To-Day.

     Horace Walpole and his World. Extracts from his Letters. With Eight
     Copper Plates. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

SHARLAND, E. CRUWYS. With an
     Introduction by E. CRUWYS SHARLAND, and several Illustrations.
     Crown 8vo, 6s.

SOLOMON, SOLOMON J.R.A.

     The Practice of Oil Painting and Drawing. With Eighty
     Illustrations. Extra crown 8vo, 6s. nett.

STRANG, WILLIAM.

     Six Etchings. By D.Y. CAMERON and WILLIAM STRANG.

TOWNSHEND, Captain A.T.

     A Military Consul in Turkey. With many Illustrations.

WACE, Very Rev. H., Dean of Canterbury.

     The Sacrifice of Christ. Its Vital Reality and Efficacy. Cloth, 1s.

WELLDON, Bishop.

     The Hope of Immortality. An Essay. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s.
     6d.