At the same time we may hope that as economic progress goes slowly ahead over the stepping
stones of uncomfortable experience, borrowing countries will see that it really pays them to
pay their yearly bills out of yearly taxes, and that they are only hurting themselves when
they mortgage their future revenue for loans, the spending of which is not going to help them
to produce more goods and so raise more revenue without effort. War is the only possible excuse
for asking foreign nations to find money for other than reproductive purposes. In time of war
it can be justified, even as an individual can be justified for drawing on his capital in order
to pay for an operation that will save his life. But in both cases it leaves both the nation
and the individual permanently poorer and with a continuous burden to meet in the shape of
interest and sinking fund, until the loan has been redeemed. Loans raised at home have an essentially
different effect. The interest on them is raised from the taxpayers and paid back to the taxpayers,
and the nation, as a whole, is none the poorer. But when one nation borrows from another it
takes the loan in the form of goods or services, and unless these goods and services are used
in such a way as to enrich it and help it to produce goods and services itself, it is bound
to be a loser by the bargain; because it has to pay interest on the loan in goods and services
and to redeem the loan by the same process, and if the loan has not been used to increase its
power of turning out goods and services, it is inevitably in the same position as a spendthrift
individual who has pledged his income for an advance and spent it on riotous living.

One of the great benefits that the present war is working is that it is teaching young countries
to do without continual drafts of fresh capital from the older ones. Instead of being able
to finance themselves by fresh borrowing, they have had to close their capital accounts for
the time being, and develop themselves out of their own resources. It is a very useful experience
for them, and is teaching them lessons that will stand them in good stead for some time to
come. For the old countries, when the war is over, will have problems of their own to face
at home, and will not be able at once to go back to the old system of placing money abroad,
even if they should decide that the experiences of war have raised no objections to their doing
so with the old indiscriminate freedom.

It is easy, however, to exaggerate the effect of the war on our power to finance other peoples.
Pessimistic observers, with a pacifist turn of mind, who regard all war as a hideous barbarism
and refuse to see that anything good can come out of it, are apt in these days to make our
flesh creep by telling us that war will inevitably leave Europe so exhausted and impoverished
that its financial future is a prospect of unmitigated gloom. They talk of the whole cost of
the war as so much destruction of capital, and maintain that by this destruction we shall be
for some generations in a state of comparative destitution. These gloomy forecasts may be right,
but I hope and believe that they will be found to have been nightmares, evolved by depressed
and prejudiced imaginations. War destroys capital when and where actual destruction of property
takes place, as now in Belgium, Northern France, and other scenes of actual warfare, and on
the sea, where a large number of ships, though small in relation to the total tale of the merchant
navies of the world, have been sunk and destroyed. Destruction in this sense has only been
wrought, so far, in limited areas. In so far as agricultural land has been wasted, kindly nature,
aided by industry and science, will soon restore its productive power.