It has been proved to me by manifold experience that when man passes from the natural world
into the spiritual, as he does when he dies, he carries with him all his possessions, that
is, everything that belongs to him as a man, except his earthly body. For when man enters the
spiritual world or the life after death, he is in a body as he was in the world, with no apparent
difference, since he neither sees nor feels any difference. But his body is then spiritual,
and thus separated or purified from all that is earthly; and when what is spiritual touches
or sees what is spiritual, it is just the same as when what is natural touches or sees what
is natural. So when a man has become a spirit he does not know otherwise than that he is in
the same body that he had in the world and thus does not know that he has died. [2] Moreover,
a man's spirit enjoys every sense, both outer and inner, that he enjoyed in the world; he sees
as before, he hears and speaks as before, smells and tastes, and when touched, he feels the
touch as before; he also longs, desires, craves, thinks, reflects, is stirred, loves, wills,
as before; and one who takes delight in studies, reads and writes as before. In a word, when
a man passes from one life into the other, or from one world into the other, it is like passing
from one place into another, carrying with him all things that he had possessed in himself
as a man; so that by death, which is only the death of the earthly body, man cannot be said
to have lost anything really his own. [3] Furthermore, he carries with him his natural memory,
retaining everything that he has heard, seen, read, learned, or thought, in the world from
earliest infancy even to the end of life; although the natural objects that are contained in
the memory, since they cannot be reproduced in the spiritual world, are quiescent, just as
they are when one is not thinking of them. Nevertheless, they are reproduced when the Lord
so wills. But more will be said presently about this memory and its state after death. A sensual
man finds it impossible to believe that such is the state of man after death, because he cannot
comprehend it; for a sensual man must needs think naturally even about spiritual things; therefore,
any thing that does not appeal to his senses, that is, that he does not see with his bodily
eyes and touch with his hands (as is said of Thomas, John 20:25, 27, 29) he denies the existence
of. (What the sensual man is may be seen above, n. 267 and notes.)

462. [a.] And yet there is a great difference between man's life in the spiritual world and
his life in the natural world, in regard both to his outer senses and their affections and
his inner senses and their affections. Those that are in heaven have more exquisite senses,
that is, a keener sight and hearing, and also think more wisely than when they were in the
world; for they see in the light of heaven, which surpasses by many degrees the light of the
world (see above, n. 126); and they hear by means of a spiritual atmosphere, which likewise
surpasses by many degrees the earthly atmosphere (n. 235). This difference in respect to the
outward senses is like the difference between clear sunshine and dark cloudiness in the world,
or between noonday light and evening shade. For the light of heaven, since it is Divine truth,
enables the eyes of angels to perceive and distinguish most minute things. [2] Moreover, their
outer sight corresponds to their inner sight or understanding; for with angels one sight so
flows into the other as to act as one with it; and this gives them their great keenness of
vision. In like manner, their hearing corresponds to their perception, which pertains both
to the understanding and to the will, and in consequence they perceive in the tone and words
of one speaking the most minute things of his affection and thought; in the tone what pertains
to his affection, and in the words what pertains to his thought (see above, n. 234-245). But
the rest of the senses with the angels are less exquisite than the senses of seeing and hearing,
for the reason that seeing and hearing serve their intelligence and wisdom, and the rest do
not; and if the other senses were equally exquisite they would detract from the light and joy
of their wisdom, and would let in the delight of pleasures pertaining to various appetites
and to the body; and so far as these prevail they obscure and weaken the understanding. This
takes place in the world, where men become gross and stupid in regard to spiritual truths so
far as they indulge the sense of taste and yield to the allurements of the sense of touch.
[3] From what has already been said and shown in the chapter on the wisdom of the angels of
heaven (n. 265-275), it can be seen that the inner senses also of the angels of heaven, which
pertain to their thought and affection, are more exquisite and perfect than the senses they
had in the world. But as regards the state of those that are in hell as compared with the state
of those in the world there is also a great difference, for as great as is the perfection and
excellence of the outer and inner senses of the angels in heaven, with those who are in hell
the imperfection is equally great. But the state of these will be treated of hereafter.

