=Importance of the Latin Literature and Language.=--Latin literature profited by the conquests
of Rome; the Romans carried it with their language to their barbarian subjects of the West.
All the peoples of Italy, Gaul, Spain, Africa, and the Danubian lands discarded their language
and took the Latin. Having no national literature, they adopted that of their masters. The
empire was thus divided between the two languages of the two great peoples of antiquity: the
Orient continued to speak Greek; almost the entire Occident acquired the Latin. Latin was not
only the official language of the state functionaries and of great men, like the English of
our day in India; the people themselves spoke it with greater or less correctness--in fact,
so well that today eighteen centuries after the conquest five languages of Europe are derived
from the Latin--the Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, French, and Roumanian.

With the Latin language the Latin literature extended itself over all the West. In the schools
of Bordeaux and Autun in the fifth century only Latin poets and orators were studied. After
the coming of the barbarians, bishops and monks continued to write in Latin and they carried
this practice among the peoples of England and Germany who were still speaking their native
languages. Throughout almost the whole mediæval period, acts, laws, histories, and books of
science were written in Latin. In the convents and the schools they read, copied, and appreciated
only works written in Latin; beside books of piety only the Latin authors were known--Vergil,
Horace, Cicero, and Pliny the Younger. The renaissance of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries
consisted partly in reviving the forgotten Latin writers. More than ever it was the fashion
to know and to imitate them.

As the Romans constructed a literature in imitation of the Greeks, the moderns have taken the
Latin writers for their models. Was this good or bad? Who would venture to say? But the fact
is indisputable. Our romance languages are daughters of the Latin, our literatures are full
of the ideas and of the literary methods of the Romans. The whole western world is impregnated
with the Latin literature.

THE ARTS

=Sculpture and Painting.=--Great numbers of Roman statues and bas-reliefs of the time of the
empire have come to light. Some are reproductions and almost all are imitations of Greek works,
but less elegant and less delicate than the models. The most original productions of this form
of art are the bas-reliefs and the busts.

Bas-reliefs adorned the monuments (temples, columns, and triumphal arches), tombs, and sarcophagi.
They represent with scrupulous fidelity real scenes, such as processions, sacrifices, combats,
and funeral ceremonies and so give us information about ancient life. The bas-reliefs which
surround the columns of Trajan and Marcus Aurelius bring us into the presence of the great
scenes of their wars. One may see the soldiers fighting against the barbarians, besieging their
fortresses, leading away the captives; the solemn sacrifices, and the emperor haranguing the
troops.

The busts are especially those of the emperors, of their wives and their children. As they
were scattered in profusion throughout the empire, so many have been found that today all the
great museums of Europe have collections of imperial busts. They are real portraits, probably
very close resemblances, for each emperor had a well-marked physiognomy, often of a striking
ugliness that no one attempted to disguise.

In general, Roman sculpture holds itself much more close to reality than does the Greek; it
may be said that the artist is less concerned with representing things beautifully than exactly.

Of Roman painting we know only the frescoes painted on the walls of the rich houses of Pompeii
and of the house of Livy at Rome. We do not know but these were the work of Greek painters;
they bear a close resemblance to the paintings on Greek vases, having the same simple and elegant
grace.

=Architecture.=--The true Roman art, because it operated to satisfy a practical need, is architecture.
In this too the Romans imitated the Greeks, borrowing the column from them. But they had a
form that the Greeks never employed--the arch, that is to say, the art of arranging cut stones
in the arc of a circle so that they supported one another. The arch allowed them to erect buildings
much larger and more varied than those of the Greeks. The following are the principal varieties
of Roman monuments:

  1. The Temple was sometimes similar to a Greek temple with a
  broad vestibule, sometimes vaster and surmounted with a dome. Of
  this sort is the Pantheon built in Rome under Augustus.

  2. The Basilica was a long low edifice, covered with a roof and
  surrounded with porticos. There sat the judge with his assistants
  about him; traders discussed the price of goods; the place was at
  once a bourse and a tribunal. It was in the basilicas that the
  assemblies of the Christians were later held, and for several
  centuries the Christian churches preserved the name and form of
  basilicas.

  3. The Amphitheatre and the Circus were constructed of several
  stories of arcades surrounding an arena; each range of arcades
  supported many rows of seats. Such were the Colosseum at Rome and
  the arenas at Arles and Nîmes.

  4. The Arch of Triumph was a gate of honor wide enough for the
  passage of a chariot, adorned with columns and surmounted with a
  group of sculpture. The Arch of Titus is an example.

  5. The Sepulchral Vault was an arched edifice provided with many
  rows of niches, in each of which were laid the ashes of a corpse.
  It was called a Columbarium (pigeon-house) from its shape.

  6. The Thermæ were composed of bathing-halls furnished with
  basins. The heat was provided by a furnace placed in an
  underground chamber. The Thermæ in a Roman city were what the
  gymnasium was in a Greek city--a rendezvous for the idle. Much
  more than the gymnasium it was a labyrinth of halls of every sort:
  there were a cool hall, warm apartments, a robing-room, a hall
  where the body was anointed with oil, parlors, halls for exercise,
  gardens, and the whole surrounded by an enormous wall. Thus the
  Thermæ of Caracalla covered an immense area.

  7. The Bridge and the Aqueduct were supported by a range of
  arches thrown over a river or over a valley. Examples are the
  bridge of Alcantara and the Pont du Gard.

  8. The House of a rich Roman was a work of art. Unlike our
  modern houses, the ancient house had no façade; the house was
  turned entirely toward the interior; on the outside it showed only
  bare walls.

  The rooms were small, ill furnished, and dark; they were lighted
  only through the atrium. In the centre was the great hall of honor
  (the atrium) where the statues of the ancestors were erected and
  where visitors were received. It was illuminated by an opening in
  the roof.

  Behind the atrium was the peristyle, a garden surrounded by
  colonnades, in which were the dining halls, richly ornamented and
  provided with couches, for among the rich Romans, as among the
  Asiatic Greeks, guests reclined on couches at the banquets. The
  pavement was often made of mosaic.

=Character of the Roman Architecture.=--The Romans,[162] unlike the Greeks, did not always
build in marble. Ordinarily they used the stone that they found in the country, binding this
together with an indestructible mortar which has resisted even dampness for eighteen hundred
years. Their monuments have not the wonderful grace of the Greek monuments, but they are large,
strong, and solid--like the Roman power. The soil of the empire is still covered with their
débris. We are astonished to find monuments almost intact as remote as the deserts of Africa.
When it was planned to furnish a water-system for the city of Tunis, all that had to be done
was to repair a Roman aqueduct.

=Rome and Its Monuments.=--Rome at the time of the emperors was a city of 2,000,000 inhabitants.[163]
This population was herded in houses of five and six stories, poorly built and crowded together.
The populous quarters were a labyrinth of tortuous paths, steep, and ill paved. Juvenal who
frequented them leaves us a picture of them which has little attractiveness. At Pompeii, a
city of luxury, it may be seen how narrow were the streets of a Roman city. In the midst of
hovels monuments by the hundred would be erected. The emperor Augustus boasted of having restored
more than eighty temples. "I found a city of bricks," said he; "I leave a city of marble."
His successors all worked to embellish Rome. It was especially about the Forum that the monuments
accumulated. The Capitol with its temple of Jupiter became almost like the Acropolis at Athens.
In the same quarter many monumental areas were constructed--the forum of Cæsar, the forum of
Augustus, the forum of Nerva, and, most brilliant of all, the forum of Trajan. Two villas surrounded
by a park were situated in the midst of the city; the most noted was the Golden House, built
for Nero.

THE LAW

=The Twelve Tables.=--The Romans, like all other ancient peoples, had at first no written laws.
They followed the customs of the ancestors--that is to say, each generation did in everything
just as the preceding generation did.

In 450 ten specially elected magistrates, the decemvirs, made a series of laws that they wrote
on twelve tables of stone. This was the Law of the Twelve Tables, codified in short, rude,
and trenchant sentences--a legislation severe and rude like the semi-barbarous people for whom
it was made. It punished the sorcerer who by magical words blasted the crop of his neighbor.
It pronounced against the insolvent debtor, "If he does not pay, he shall be cited before the
court; if sickness or age deter him, a horse shall be furnished him, but no litter; he may
have thirty days' delay, but if he does not satisfy the debt in this time, the creditor may
bind him with straps or chains of fifteen pounds weight; at the end of sixty days he may be
sold beyond the Tiber; if there are many creditors, they may cut him in parts, and if they
cut more or less, there is no wrong in the act." According to the word of Cicero, the Law of
the Twelve Tables was "the source of all the Roman law." Four centuries after it was written
down the children had to learn it in the schools.

=The Symbolic Process.=--In the ancient Roman law it was not enough in buying, selling, or
inheriting that this was the intention of the actor; to obtain justice in the Roman tribunal
it was not sufficient to present the case; one had to pronounce certain words and use certain
gestures. Consider, for example, the manner of purchasing. In the presence of five citizens
who represent an assembly and of a sixth who holds a balance in his hand, the buyer places
in the balance a piece of brass which represents the price of the thing sold. If it be an animal
or a slave that is sold, the purchaser touches it with his hand saying, "This is mine by the
law of the Romans, I have bought it with this brass duly weighed." Before the tribunal every
process is a pantomime: to reclaim an object one seizes it with the hand; to protest against
a neighbor who has erected a wall, a stone is thrown against the wall. When two men claim proprietorship
in a field, the following takes place at the tribunal: the two adversaries grasp hands and
appear to fight; then they separate and each says, "I declare this field is mine by the law
of the Romans; I cite you before the tribunal of the prætor to debate our right at the place
in question." The judge orders them to go to the place. "Before these witnesses here present,
this is your road to the place; go!" The litigants take a few steps as if to go thither, and
this is the symbol of the journey. A witness says to them, "Return," and the journey is regarded
as completed. Each of the two presents a clod of earth, the symbol of the field. Thus the trial
commences;[164] then the judge alone hears the case. Like all primitive peoples, the Romans
comprehended well only what they actually saw; the material acts served to represent to them
the right that could not be seen.

=The Formalism of Roman Law.=--The Romans scrupulously respected their ancient forms. In justice,
as in religion, they obeyed the letter of the law, caring nothing for its sense. For them every
form was sacred and ought to be strictly applied. In cases before the courts their maxim was:
"What has already been pronounced ought to be the law." If an advocate made a mistake in one
word in reciting the formula, his case was lost. A man entered a case against his neighbor
for having cut down his vines: the formula that he ought to use contained the word "arbor,"
he replaced it with the word "vinea," and could not win his case.

This absolute reverence for the form allowed the Romans some strange accommodations. The law
said that if a father sold his son three times, the son should be freed from the power of the
father; when, therefore, a Roman wished to emancipate his son, he sold him three times in succession,
and this comedy of sale sufficed to emancipate him.

The law required that before beginning war a herald should be sent to declare it at the frontier
of the enemy. When Rome wished to make war on Pyrrhus, king of Epirus, who had his kingdom
on the other side of the Adriatic, they were much embarrassed to execute this formality. They
hit on the following: a subject of Pyrrhus, perhaps a deserter, bought a field in Rome; they
then assumed that this territory had become territory of Epirus, and the herald threw his javelin
on this land and made his solemn declaration. Like all other immature peoples, the Romans believed
that consecrated formulas had a magical virtue.

=Jurisprudence.=--The Law of the Twelve Tables and the laws made after them were brief and
incomplete. But many questions presented themselves that had no law for their solution. In
these embarrassing cases it was the custom at Rome to consult certain persons who were of high
reputation for their knowledge of questions of law. These were men of eminence, often old consuls
or pontiffs; they gave their advice in writing, and their replies were called the Responses
of the Wise. Usually these responses were authoritative according to the respect had for the
sages. The emperor Augustus went further: he named some of them whose responses should have
the force of law. Thus Law began to be a science and the men versed in law formulated new rules
which became obligatory. This was Jurisprudence.

=The Prætor's Edict.=--To apply the sacred rules of law a supreme magistrate was needed at
Rome. Only a consul or a prætor could direct a tribunal and, according to the Roman expression,
"say the law." The consuls engaged especially with the army ordinarily left this care to the
prætors.

There were always at Rome at least two prætors as judges: one adjudicated matters between citizens
and was called the prætor of the city (prætor urbanus); the other judged cases between citizens
and aliens and was called prætor of the aliens (prætor peregrinus), or, more exactly, prætor
between aliens and citizens. There was need of at least two tribunals, since an alien could
not be admitted to the tribunal of the citizens. These prætors, thanks to their absolute power,
adjusted cases according to their sense of equity; the prætor of the aliens was bound by no
law, for the Roman laws were made only for Roman citizens. And yet, since each prætor was to
sit and judge for a year, on entering upon his office he promulgated a decree in which he indicated
the rules that he expected to follow in his tribunal; this was the Prætor's Edict. At the end
of the year, when the præter left his office, his ordinance was no longer in force, and his
successor had the right to make an entirely different one. But it came to be the custom for
each prætor to preserve the edicts of his predecessors, making a few changes and some additions.
Thus accumulated for centuries the ordinances of the magistrates. At last the emperor Hadrian
in the second century had the Prætorian Edict codified and gave it the force of law.

=Civil Law and the Law of Nations.=--As there were two separate tribunals, there developed
two systems of rules, two different laws. The rules applied to the affairs of citizens by the
prætor of the city formed the Civil Law--that is to say, the law of the city. The rules followed
by the prætor of aliens constituted the Law of Nations--that is to say, of the peoples (alien
to Rome). It was then perceived that of these two laws the more human, the more sensible, the
simpler--in a word, the better, was the law of aliens. The law of citizens, derived from the
superstitious and strict rules of the old Romans, had preserved from this rude origin troublesome
formulas and barbarous regulations. The Law of Nations, on the contrary, had for its foundation
the dealings of merchants and of men established in Rome, dealings that were free from every
formula, from every national prejudice, and were slowly developed and tried by the experience
of several centuries. And so it may be seen how contrary to reason the ancient law was. "Strict
law is the highest injustice," is a Roman proverb. The prætors of the city set themselves to
correct the ancient law and to judge according to equity or justice. They came gradually to
apply to citizens the same rules that the prætor of the aliens followed in his tribunal. For
example, the Roman law ordained that only relatives on the male side should be heirs; the prætor
summoned the relatives on the female side also to participate in the succession.

The old law required that a man to become a proprietor must perform a complicated ceremony
of sale; the prætor recognized that it was sufficient to have paid the price of the sale and
to be in possession of the property. Thus the Law of Nations invaded and gradually superseded
the Civil Law.

="Written Reason."=--It was especially under the emperors that the new Roman law took its form.
The Antonines issued many ordinances (edicts) and re-scripts (letters in which the emperor
replied to those who consulted him). Jurisconsults who surrounded them assisted them in their
reforms. Later, at the beginning of the third century, under the bad emperors as under the
good, others continued to state new rules and to rectify the old. Papinian, Ulpian, Modestinus,
and Paullus were the most noted of these lawyers; their works definitively fixed the Roman law.

This law of the third century has little resemblance to the old Roman law, so severe on the
weak. The jurisconsults adopt the ideas of the Greek philosophers, especially of the Stoics.
They consider that all men have the right of liberty: "By the law of nature all men are born
free," which is to say that slavery is contrary to nature. They also admit that a slave could
claim redress even against his master, and that the master, if he killed his slave, should
be punished as a murderer. Likewise they protect the child against the tyranny of the father.

It is this new law that was in later times called Written Reason. In fact, it is a philosophical
law such as reason can conceive for all men. And so there remains no longer an atom of the
strict and gross law of the Twelve Tables. The Roman law which has for a long time governed
all Europe, and which today is preserved in part in the laws of several European states is
not the law of the old Romans. It is constructed, on the contrary, of the customs of all the
peoples of antiquity and the maxims of Greek philosophers fused together and codified in the
course of centuries by Roman magistrates and jurisconsults.

FOOTNOTES:

[157] Sometimes called the Age of Cicero.

[158] Lucretius.--ED.

[159] One of the most noted, the plea for Milo, was written much later. Cicero at the time
of the delivery was distracted and said almost nothing.

[160] See the "Dialogue of the Orators," attributed to Tacitus.

[161] The word "rhetor" signified in Greek simply orator; the Romans used the word in a mistaken
sense to designate the men who made a profession of speaking.

[162] The same reserve must be maintained with regard to the arts as to the literature. The
builders of the Roman monuments were not Romans, but provincials, often slaves; the only Roman
would be the master for whom the slaves worked.

[163] This estimate is too liberal. 1,500,00 is probably nearer the truth. See Friedlaender,
Sittengeschichte Roms, i. 25.--ED.

[164] Cicero describes this juridical comedy which was still in force in his time.

CHAPTER XXVI

THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION

ORIGIN OF CHRISTIANITY

=The Christ.=--He whom the Jews were expecting as their liberator and king, the Messiah, appeared
in Galilee, a small province of the North, hardly regarded as Jewish, and in a humble family
of carpenters. He was called Jesus, but his Greek disciples called him the Christ (the anointed),
that is to say, the king consecrated by the holy oil. He was also called the Master, the Lord,
and the Saviour. The religion that he came to found is that we now possess. We all know his
life: it is the model of every Christian. We know his instructions by heart; they form our
moral law. It is sufficient, then, to indicate what new doctrines he disseminated in the world.
The first duty is to love others and to benefit them. When God will judge men, he will set
on his right hand those who have fed the hungry, given drink to those who were thirsty, and
have clad those that were naked. To those who would follow him the Christ said at the beginning:
"Go, ... sell all that ye have and give to the poor."

For the ancients the good man was the noble, the rich, the brave. Since the time of Christ
the word has changed its sense: the good man is he who loves others. Doing good is loving others
and seeking to be of service to them. Charity (the Latin name of love) from that time has been
the cardinal virtue. Charitable becomes synonymous with beneficent. To the old doctrine of
vengeance the Christ formally opposes his doctrine of charity. He himself on the cross prayed
for his executioners, "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do."

=Equality.=--The Christ loved all men; he died not for one people only, but for all humanity.
He never made a difference between men; all are equal before God. The ancient religions, even
the Jewish, were religions of peoples who kept them with jealous care, as a treasure, without
wishing to communicate them to other peoples. Christ said to his disciples, "Go, and teach
all nations." And the apostle Paul thus formulated the doctrine of Christian equality: "There
is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, barbarian, bond nor free." Two centuries
later Tertullian, a Christian writer, said, "The world is a republic, the common land of the
human race."

=Poverty and Humility.=--The ancients thought that riches ennobled a man and they regarded
pride as a worthy sentiment. "Blessed are the poor," said Christ, "for theirs is the kingdom
of heaven." He that would not renounce all that he had could not be his disciple. He himself
went from city to city, possessing nothing, and when his disciples were preoccupied with the
future, he said, "Be not anxious for what ye shall eat, nor for what ye shall put on. Behold
the birds of the heaven, they sow not neither do they reap, yet your heavenly Father feedeth them."

The Christian was to disdain riches, and more yet, worldly honors. One day when his disciples
were disputing who should have the highest rank in heaven, he said, "He that is greatest among
you shall be your servant." "Whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that humbleth
himself shall be exalted." Till our day the successor of Saint Peter calls himself "Servant
of the servants of God." Christ drew to himself by preference the poor, the sick, women, children,--in
a word, the weak and the helpless. He took all his disciples from among the populace and bade
them be "meek and lowly of heart."

=The Kingdom of God.=--Christ said that he had come to the earth to found the kingdom of God.
His enemies believed that he wished to be a king, and when he was crucified, they placed this
inscription on his cross, "Jesus of Nazareth, king of the Jews." This was a gross mistake.
Christ himself had declared, "My kingdom is not of this world." He did not come to overturn
governments nor to reform society. To him who asked if he should pay the Roman tax, he replied,
"Render unto Cæsar the things that are Cæsar's, and to God the things that are God's." And
so the Christian accepted what he found established and himself worked to perfect it, not to
remodel society. Their moral law is contained in this word of Christ: "Be ye therefore perfect
even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect."

THE FIRST CENTURIES OF THE CHURCH

=Disciples and Apostles.=--The twelve disciples who associated with Christ received from him
the mission to preach his doctrine to all peoples. From that time they were called Apostles.
The majority of them lived in Jerusalem and preached in Judæa; the first Christians were still
Jews. It was Saul, a new convert, who carried Christianity to the other peoples of the Orient.
Paul (for he took this name) spent his life visiting the Greek cities of Asia, Greece, and
Macedonia, inviting to the new religion not only the Jews, but also and especially the Gentiles:
"You were once without Christ," said he to them, "strangers to the covenant and to the promises;
but you have been brought nigh by the blood of Christ, for it is he who of two peoples hath
made both one." From this time it was no longer necessary to be a Jew if one would become a
Christian. The other nations, disregarded by the law of Moses, are brought near by the law
of Christ. This fusion was the work of St. Paul, also called the Apostle to the Gentiles.

The religion of Christ spread very slowly, as he himself had announced: "The kingdom of heaven
is like a grain of mustard-seed ... which is the least of all seeds; but when it is grown,
it is the greatest among herbs ... and the birds of the air lodge under its branches."

=The Church.=--In every city where Christians were found they assembled to pray together, to
sing the praises of God, and to celebrate the mystery of the Lord's Supper. Their meeting was
called Ecclesia (assembly). Usually the Christians of the same assembly regarded themselves
as brothers; they contributed of their property to support the widows, the poor, and the sick.
The most eminent directed the community and celebrated the religious ceremonies. These were
the Priests (their name signifies "elders"). Others were charged with the administration of
the goods of the community, and were called Deacons (servants). Besides these officers, there
was in each city a supreme head--the Bishop (overseer).

Later the functions of the church became so exacting that the body of Christians was divided
into two classes of people: the clergy, who were the officials of the community; the rest,
the faithful, who were termed the laity.

Each city had its independent church; thus they spoke of the church of Antioch, of Corinth,
of Rome; and yet they all formed but one church, the church of Christ, in which all were united
in one faith. The universal or Catholic faith was regarded as the only correct body of belief;
all conflicting opinions (the heresies) were condemned as errors.

=The Sacred Books.=--The sacred scripture of the Jews, the Old Testament, remained sacred for
the Christians, but they had other sacred books which the church had brought into one structure
(the New Testament). The four Gospels recount the life of Christ and the "good news" of salvation
which he brought. The Acts of the Apostles describes how the gospel was disseminated in the
world. The Epistles are the letters addressed by the apostles to the Christians of the first
century. The Apocalypse (Revelation) is the revelation made through St. John to the seven churches
of Asia. Many other pseudo-sacred books were current among the Christians, but the church has
rejected all of these, and has termed them apocryphal.

=The Persecutions.=--The Christian religion was persecuted from its birth. Its first enemies
were the Jews, who forced the Roman governor of Judæa to crucify Christ; who stoned St. Stephen,
the first martyr, and so set themselves against St. Paul that they almost compassed his death.

Then came the persecution by the Pagans. The Romans tolerated all the religions of the East
because the devotees of Osiris, of Mithra, and of the Good Goddess recognized at the same time
the Roman gods. But the Christians, worshippers of the living God, scorned the petty divinities
of antiquity. More serious still in the eyes of the Romans, they refused to adore the emperor
as a god and to burn incense on the altar of the goddess Roma. Several emperors promulgated
edicts against the Christians, bidding the governors arrest them and put them to death. A letter
of Pliny the Younger, then governor in Asia, to the emperor Trajan, shows the procedure against
them. "Up to this time, regarding the people who have been denounced as Christians, I have
always operated as follows: I asked them if they were Christians; if they confessed it, I put
the question to them a second time, and then a third time, threatening them with the penalty
of death. When they persisted, I had them put to death, convinced that, whatever their fault
that they avowed, their disobedience and their resolute obstinacy merited punishment. Many
who have been denounced in anonymous writings have denied that they were Christians, have repeated
a prayer that I pronounced before them, have offered wine and incense to your statue, which
I had set forth for this purpose together with the statues of the gods, and have even reviled
the name of Christ. All these are things which it is not possible to compel any true Christians
to do. Others have confessed that they were Christians, but they affirm that their crime and
their error consisted only in assembling on certain days before sunrise to adore Christ as
God, to sing together in his honor, and to bind themselves by oath to commit no crime, to perpetrate
no theft, murder, adultery, nor to violate their word. I have believed it necessary in order
to secure the truth to put to the torture two female slaves whom they called deaconesses; but
I have discovered only an absurd and exaggerated superstition."

The Roman government was a persecutor,[165] but the populace were severer yet. They could not
endure these people who worshipped another god than theirs and contemned their deities. Whenever
famine or epidemic occurred, the well-known cry was heard, "To the lions with the Christians!"
The people forced the magistrates to hunt and persecute the Christians.

=The Martyrs.=--For the two centuries and a half that the Christians were persecuted, throughout
the empire there were thousands of victims, of every age, sex, and condition. Roman citizens,
like St. Paul, were beheaded; the others were crucified, burned, most often sent to the beasts
in the amphitheatre. If they were allowed to escape with their lives, they were set at forced
labor in the mines. Sometimes torture was aggravated by every sort of invention. In the great
execution at Lyons, in 177, the Christians, after being tortured and confined in narrow prison
quarters, were brought to the arena. The beasts mutilated without killing them. They were then
seated in iron chairs heated red by fire. Blandina, a young slave, who survived all these torments
was bound with cords and exposed to the fury of a bull. The Christians joyfully suffered these
persecutions which gave them entrance to heaven. The occasion presented an opportunity for
rendering public testimony to Christ. And so they did not call themselves victims, but martyrs
(witnesses); their torture was a testimony. They compared it to the combat of the Olympian
games; like the victor in the athletic contests, they spoke of the palm or the crown. Even
now the festal day of a martyr is the day of his death.

Frequently a Christian who was present at the persecution would draft a written account of
the martyrdom--he related the arrest, the examination, the tortures, and the death. These brief
accounts, filled with edifying details, were called The Acts of the Martyrs. They were circulated
in the remotest communities; from one end of the empire to the other they published the glory
of the martyrs and excited a desire to imitate them. Thousands of the faithful, seized by a
thirst for martyrdom, pressed forward to incriminate themselves and to demand condemnation.
One day a governor of Asia had decreed persecutions against some Christians: all the Christians
of the city presented themselves in his tribunal and demanded to be persecuted. The governor,
exasperated, had some of them executed and sent away the others. "Begone, you wretches! If
you are so bent on death, you have precipices and ropes." Some of the faithful, to be surer
of torture, entered the temples and threw down the idols of the gods. It was several times
necessary for even the church to prohibit the solicitation of martyrdom.

=The Catacombs.=--The ancient custom of burning the dead was repugnant to the Christians. Like
the Jews, they interred their dead wrapped with a shroud in a sarcophagus. Cemeteries[166]
were therefore required. At Rome where land was very high in price the Christians went below
ground, and in the brittle tufa on which Rome was built may be seen long galleries and subterranean
chambers. There, in niches excavated along the passages, they laid the bodies of their dead.
As each generation excavated new galleries, there was formed at length a subterranean city,
called the Catacombs ("to the tombs"). There were similar catacombs in several cities--Naples,
Milan, Alexandria, but the most celebrated were those in Rome. These have been investigated
in our day and thousands of Christian tombs and inscriptions recovered. The discovery of this
subterranean world gave birth to a new department of historical science--Christian Epigraphy
and Archæology.

