To reach the nearest pawnbroker's, it was necessary to pass through one of the principal streets.
To my dismay a crowd of actors, reporters and others were assembled upon the steps of a hotel.
The rascals spied me out before I could cross over; and so, putting on as bold a front as possible,
I walked on pretending not to notice them, while a "running commentary," something like the
following, was kept up until I was out of hearing:

"Stag his knibbs,"[H] said the "heavy man" of the Arch street theatre.

"Thompson, give us a tune!" bawled out a miserable wretch of a light comedian, or "walking
gentleman."

"Jem Baggs, the Wandering Minstrel, by G----!" yelled a pitiful demon of a newspaper reporter.

"Who is that magnificent woman accompanying him?" inquired a dandy editor, raising his eye-glass
and surveying my fair companion with an admiring gaze.

"Egad! she's a beauty!" cried all the fellows, in a chorus. Mrs. Raymond blushed and smiled.
It was evident that these expressions of admiration were not displeasing to her.

"Excuse those gentlemen," said I to her, apologetically--"they are all particular friends of mine."

"I am not offended; indeed they are very complimentary," responded the lady, with a gay laugh.
She had the most musical laugh in the world, and the most beautiful one to look at, for it
displayed her fine, pearly teeth to the most charming advantage.

We reached the pawnbroker's and I went boldly in while Mrs. Raymond waited for me outside the
door, for I did not wish her to be exposed to the mortification of being stared at by those
who might be in the shop.

The pawnbroker was a gentleman of Jewish persuasion, and possessed a nose like the beak of
an eagle. He took the instrument and examined it carefully,

"Vat is dish?" said he, "a harp? Oh, dat is no use. We have tousands such tings offered every
day. Dere is no shecurity in mushical instruments. Vat do you want for it?"

"Ten dollars," I replied, in a tone of decision.

"Can't give it," said the Israelite--"it ish too moosh. Give you eight."

"No," said I, taking up the harp and preparing to depart.

"Here, den," said my uncle, "I will give you ten, but only shust to oblishe you--mind dat."

I duly thanked him for his willingness to oblige me. Uncle Moses gave me the ticket and money;
and I left the shop and rejoined Mrs. Raymond, to whom I handed over the duplicate and the X.

"I will take the ticket," said she, smiling--"but you shall keep the money, for I appoint you
my cashier."

At the suggestion of my fair friend we now sought out a cheap second-hand clothing establishment,
which, fortunately, was kept by a woman, who, when matters were confidentially explained to
her, readily entered into our plan. Mrs. Raymond and the woman retired into a rear apartment,
while I remained in the shop.

Half or three-quarters of an hour passed away. At last the door of the inner apartment was
opened and there entered the shop a young person whom I did not immediately recognize. This
person seemed to be a very beautiful boy, neatly dressed in a cloth jacket and cap, and possessing
a form of the most exquisite symmetry. This pretty and interesting lad approached me, and tapping
me playfully upon the cheek, said--

"My dear fellow, how do you like me now? Have I not made a change for the better? How queenly
I feel in this strange rig!"

It was of course Mrs. Raymond who addressed me. Her disguise was perfect; never before had
I seen so complete a transformation, even upon the stage. No one would have suspected her to
be otherwise than what she seemed, a singularly delicate and handsome boy, apparently about
sixteen years of age.

I congratulated the lady upon the admirable appearance which she made in her newly adopted
costume, but expressed my regret that she should have been compelled to part with her magnificent
hair.

"There was no help for it," said she, laughing. "I confess that I experienced some regret when
I felt my hair tumbling from my shoulders; but the loss was unavoidable, for those tresses
would have betrayed my sex. This good woman, here, proved to be a very expert barber." Reflecting
that a coarse suit of clothes would be just as good and better, for a dusty road, than a fine
suit of broadcloth, I made a bargain with the proprietress of the shop to exchange my garments
for coarse ones of fustian, she giving me a reasonable sum to counter-balance the great superiority
of my wardrobe. This arrangement was speedily completed, and I found myself suddenly transformed
into a rustic looking individual, who, in appearance, certainly deserved the title of a perfect
"greenhorn."

All parties being satisfied, I and my fair companion departed. In the evening, having supped,
we went to the theatre, where I revenged myself upon the "heavy man," and the "light comedian,"
who had in the afternoon made merry at my expense for carrying the harp, by getting up a hiss
for the former gentleman, who knew not one single word of his part, and by hitting the latter
individual upon the nose with an apple, for which latter feat (as the actor was a great favorite,)
I was hounded out of the theatre, and narrowly escaped being carried to the watch-house. I
and my fair friend then took lodgings for the night at a neighboring hotel.

FOOTNOTES:

[F] Some people imagine that New Jersey belongs to the United States. That opinion I hold to
be erroneous.

[G] In this, as in several other cases, I have used a fictitious name, inasmuch as a number
of the persons alluded to in this narrative are still living.

[H] It is not generally known among "outsiders," that circus people and actors are in the habit
of using among themselves a sort of flash language which enables them to converse about professional
and other affairs without being understood by outside listeners. If I had room, I could relate
many amusing anecdotes under this head. "Stag his knibbs" signifies "Look at him."

CHAPTER VI

In which is introduced a celebrated Comedian from the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane, London.

The next morning, bright and early, "two travellers might have been seen" crossing one of the
ponderous bridges that lead over the Schuylkill from Philadelphia to the opposite shore. The
one was a stout young cavalier, arrayed in fustian brown; the other was a pretty youth, attired
in broadcloth blue, and brilliant was his flashing eye, and coal-black was his hair. By my
troth, good masters, a fairer youth ne'er touched the light guitar within the boudoir of my lady.

"Now, by my knightly oath," quoth he in fustian brown, "my soul expands in the soft beauty
of this rosy morn, my blood dances merrily through every vein, and I feel like eating a thundering
good breakfast at the next hostelrie.--What sayest thou, fair youth?"

"Of a truth, Sir George," quoth he in broadcloth blue, in a voice of liquid melody, "I am hungered,
and would gladly sit me down before a flagon of coffee, and a goodly platter of ham and eggs."

"Bravely spoken," quoth the stout young cavalier, with watering mouth; and then, relapsing
into silence, the train journeyed onward.

Soon they paused before a goodly hostelrie, which bore upon its swinging signboard the device
of "The Pig and the Snuffers."

"What ho, within there! House, house, I say!" hastily roared the youth in fustian brown, as
he vigorously applied his cowhide boot to the door of the inn.

Forth came mine host of the Pig and Snuffers--a jovial knave and a right merry one, I ween,
with mighty paunch and nose of ruby red. Now, by the rood! a funnier knight than this same
Rupert Harmon, ne'er drew a foaming tankard of nut-brown ale, or blew a cloud from a short
pipe in a chimney corner.

"Welcome, my masters--a right good welcome," quoth the fat host of the Pig and Snuffers.

"Bestir thyself, knave," quoth the cove in fustian brown, as he entered the inn followed by
the pretty youth in broadcloth blue--"beshrew me, I am devilish hungry, and athirst likewise.
Knave, a stoup of sack, and then let ham, eggs and coffee smoke upon the festive board!"

"To hear is to obey," said he of the Pig and Snuffers, as he waddled out of the room in order
to give the necessary instructions for breakfast.

It came! Ha, ha! Shall I attempt to describe that breakfast? Nay--my powers are inadequate
to the task.

But, dropping the style of my friend, G.P.R. James, the great English novelist, I shall continue
my narrative in my own humble way.

We breakfasted, and cheerfully set out upon our journey. The weather was delightful; the odor
of spring flowers perfumed the air, and the soft breeze made music amid the branches of the
trees. On every side of us were the evidences of agricultural prosperity--fine, spacious farm-houses,
immense barns, vast orchards, and myriads of thriving domestic animals. Sturdy old Dutch farmers,
jogging leisurely along in their great wagons to and from the city, saluted us with a hearty
"good morrow;" and one jolly old fellow who was returning home after having disposed of a quantity
of produce, insisted upon giving us a "lift" in his wagon. So we got in, and about dark reached
the farmer's home--a substantial and comfortable mansion that indicated its owner to be a man
of considerable wealth.

I was surprised at the powers of endurance exhibited by my fair friend, who after a pretty
hard day's journey, exhibited not the slightest symptom of fatigue. She kept up a most exuberant
flow of spirits, and seemed delighted with the novelty of the journey which we had commenced.
She was truly a charming companion, full of wit, sentiment and intelligence; and I look back
upon those days with a sigh of regret--for such unalloyed happiness I shall never see again.

The good old farmer, with characteristic hospitality, declared that we should go not further
that night; and we gladly availed ourselves of his kindness. He introduced us to his wife--a
fine old lady, and a famous knitter of stockings--and also to his only daughter, a plump, rosy,
girl about eighteen years old. This damsel surveyed my disguised companion with a look of the
most intense admiration; and I saw at once that she had actually fallen in love with Mrs. Raymond!

"There will be some fun here," said I to myself--"I must keep dark and watch the movements.
The idea of a woman falling love with one of her own sex, is rather rich!"

After a capital supper--ye gods, what German sausages!--I accepted the old farmer's invitation
to inspect his barn, cattle, &c. My fair friend was taken possession of by the amorous Dutch
damsel, who seemed to be particularly anxious to display the beauties of her dairy, which is
always the pride of a farmer's daughter. I could not help laughing at the look of comical embarrassment
which poor Mrs. Raymond assumed, when the buxom young lady seized her and dragged her off.

I of course praised the farmer's barn and stock with the air of a judge of such matters, and
we returned to the house, where I applied myself to the task of entertaining the old lady,
and in this I succeeded so well, that she presented me with a nice pair of stockings of her
own knitting.

After a while, my fair friend and the farmer's daughter returned;--and I noticed that Mrs.
Raymond looked exceedingly annoyed and perplexed, while the countenance of the Dutch damsel
exhibited anger and disappointment. I could easily guess how matters stood; but, of course,
I said nothing.

During the evening, my fair friend had an opportunity of speaking to me in private; and she
said to me, with a deep blush, although she could not help smiling as she spoke--

"I have something to tell you which is really very awkward and ridiculous, yet you can't think
how it vexes me. Now don't laugh at me in that provoking manner, but listen. That great, silly
Dutch girl, after showing me her dairy, which is really a very pretty affair and well worth
seeing, suddenly made the most furious love to me--supposing me, of course, to be what I seem,
a boy. I was terribly confused and frightened, and knew not what to say, nor how to act. Throwing
her fat arms around me, she declared that I was so handsome that she could not resist me, and
that I must become her lover. I told her that I was too young to know anything about love;
and then the creature volunteered to teach me all about it. Then I intimated that I could not
think of marrying at present, as I was too poor to support a wife; but she laughed at the idea
of matrimony, and said that she only wanted me to be her little lover. Finally I effected my
release by promising to meet her about midnight, in the orchard by the gate. Now, is not all
this very dreadful--to be persecuted by a big, unrelenting Dutch girl in this manner?"

I roared with laughter. It was rude and ungallant, I confess; but how could I help it? Mrs.
Raymond made a desperate effort to become angry; but so ludicrous was the whole affair, that
she could not resist the contagious influence of my mirth; and she, too, almost screamed with
laughter.

When our mirth had somewhat subsided, I inquired--

"Well, are you going to keep an appointment with the Dutch Venus?"

"What an absurd question! Of course not! She may wait by the orchard gate all night, for what
I care--the great, lubbery fool!"

"What do you say to my meeting her at the appointed time and place? I will act as your representative,
and make every satisfactory explanation."

"You shall do no such thing. How dare you make such a proposition? I am perfectly astonished
at your impudence!"

The next morning, after breakfast, we prepared to depart. I saw that the farmer's daughter
regarded my fair friend with a ferocious look. The damsel had probably passed two or three
hours in the night air, waiting for her "faithless swain."

Having thanked the good old farmer for his hospitality, and received his blessing in return,
we departed.

It is not my intention to weary the reader with the details of each day's travel; indeed, my
limited space would not admit of such particularity. I shall, however, as briefly as possible,
relate such incidents of the journey as I may deem especially worthy of mention. When we reached
Lancaster, we discovered that our funds had entirely given out, for we had lived expensively
at taverns on the way, instead of exercising a judicious economy. How to raise a fresh supply
of money was now the question, and one most difficult to be answered. But an unexpected stroke
of good fortune was in store for us. Strolling into the bar-room of the principal hotel, I
saw a play-bill stuck up on the wall. This I read with avidity; and then, to my great satisfaction,
I became aware of the fact that an old friend of mine, one Bill Pratt, a travelling actor and
manager, had "just arrived in Lancaster with a talented company of comedians, who would that
evening have the honor of appearing before the ladies and gentlemen of the above named place
in a series of entertainments at once Moral, Chaste, Instructive and Classical, at the Town
Hall. Admission--twelve-and-a-half cents."

So read the play-bill. I and my fair friend immediately posted to the Town Hall, and there
I found Brother Pratt busily engaged in arranging his stage, putting up his scenery, &c. He
was prodigiously glad to see me.[I] Among his company I recognized several old acquaintances.
I introduced my travelling companion to the ladies and gentlemen of the profession; and I do
not think that any of them suspected her true sex. We all dined together at the hotel; and
a merry party we certainly were, "within the limits of becoming mirth." Wit sparkled, conundrums
puzzled, bad puns checked, and rich jokes awoke the laughing echoes of the old dining-hall.
Happy people are those travelling actors--happy because they are careless, and, in the enjoyment
of to-day, think not of the morrow. Are they not true philosophers?

  "Oh, what's the use of sighing,
  Since time is on the wing--
  To-morrow we'll be dying,
  So merrily, merrily sing--
  Tra, la, la!"

After dining in company with Brother Pratt I seated myself upon the piazza; and, while we smoked
our cheroots, we recalled the past, dwelt upon the present, and anticipated the future.

After a considerable amount of desultory conversation, the Brother suddenly asked me--

"Who is that handsome little fellow with whom you are travelling?"

"Oh, he ran away from home in order to see something of the world, as well as to avoid being
apprenticed to a laborious trade," was my reply, for I did not consider it at all necessary
to let my friend into the secret.

"He's a lad of spirit, and I like him," rejoined the Brother. "If he went upon the stage, what
a splendid court page he'd make! But where are you going? Tell me all about it."

I told the Brother all that was necessary for him to know.

"And so," said he, reflectively, "you are entirely out of funds. That's bad. We must raise
you some cash, in some way or other. I will immediately cause bills to be printed, announcing
that 'the manager has the pleasure of informing his numerous patrons that he has, at enormous
expense, succeeded in effecting a brief engagement with Mr. George Thompson, the celebrated
comedian from the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane, London, who will make his first appearance in
his celebrated character of Robert Macaire, in the great drama of that name, as performed by
him upwards of two hundred nights before crowded and fashionable audiences including the royalty,
nobility and gentry of England, who greeted him with the most terrific and enthusiastic yells
of applause, and Her Majesty the Queen was so delighted with the masterly and brilliant representation,
that she presented Mr. Thompson with a magnificent diamond ring valued at five thousand pounds
sterling, which ring will be exhibited to the audience at the conclusion of the performance.'
How will that do, my boy? We'll raise the price of admission to twenty-five cents on account
of the extra attraction. I'll play Jaques Strop, the house will be crammed, and you will go
on your way rejoicing, with a full pocket."

"I say, old fellow," I gravely remarked--"are you not laying it on a little too thick?"

"Not at all," coolly replied the brother as he carefully knocked the ashes off the end of his
cigar, "not at all. Humbug is the order of the day. I'll get a flashy ring to represent the
one presented to you by the queen. You know enough about stage business to play the part of
Robert Macaire very respectably and you also know that I am not very slow in Jaques Strop.
You'll make a hit, depend on it. I'll get you the book, and you can look over the part. What
you don't learn you can gag.[J] I'll announce you for to-morrow night. Leave all to me; I'll
arrange everything. Let's go in and drink!"

I was soon master of the part; and, at the end of the next day's rehearsal, I was found to
be "dead letter perfect." The manager and the members of his company congratulated me on the
success which I was sure to meet with. Meanwhile, the town had been flooded with bills, which
made the same extravagant announcement that Brother Pratt had suggested to me. Public expectation
and curiosity were worked up to the highest pitch; and a crowd of excited people assembled
in front of the principal hotel, in anticipation of the sudden arrival of the "distinguished
comedian" in a splendid coach drawn by four superb white horses, and attended by a retinue
of servants in magnificent livery.

Evening came, and the large hall was crowded almost to suffocation, although the price of tickets
had been doubled. I was full of confidence, having fortified myself by imbibing several glasses
of brandy and water. Just before going on the stage Brother Pratt was, to use a common expression,
"pretty well over the bay." Well, to make a long story as short as possible, I went on at the
proper time, followed by Jaques Strop. My appearance was greeted with a perfect whirlwind of
applause, which lasted four or five minutes. Taking off my dilapidated beaver, I gracefully
bowed my thanks and then began the part which commences thus:

     "Come along, comrade, put your best leg foremost. What are you
     afraid of? We are out of danger now, and shall soon reach the
     frontier."

I may say without egotism, that I got through the part remarkably well, and I certainly kept
the audience in a continual roar of laughter. Mrs. Raymond occupied a front seat;--and her
encouraging smile sustained me throughout the play. When the piece was over, I was loudly called
for.

"Now, my boy," said Brother Pratt to me, "go in front of the curtain and make a rip-staving
speech--I know you can do it. Say that at the urgent solicitation of the manager, you have
consented to appear to-morrow night as Jem Baggs, in the Wandering Minstrel."

"Very good," said I, "but these people will now want to see the ring which Queen Victoria presented
to me. How shall I manage that?"

"Easy enough," replied the Brother, as he drew from his pocket and handed me a big brass ring
ornamented with a piece of common glass about the size of a hen's egg.

Out I stepped in front of the curtain. A bouquet as large as a cabbage struck me in the face,
and fell at my feet. The giver of this delicate compliment was an ancient female very youthfully
dressed. I picked up the bouquet, and pressed it to my heart. This was affecting, it melted
the audience to tears. Silence having been obtained, I made a bombastic speech, which Brother
Pratt afterwards declared to be the best he had ever heard delivered in front of the "green
baize." I spoke of being a stranger in a strange land, of the warm welcome which I received,
of eternal gratitude, of bearing with me beyond the ocean the remembrance of their kindness,
admitted that I was closely allied to the British aristocracy, but declared that my sentiments
were purely republican and in favor of the "Star-Spangled Banner."

Here there was a tempest of applause and when it had subsided, the orchestra, consisting of
a fiddle and a bass-drum, struck up the favorite national air which my words had suggested.
Then I exhibited the diamond ring which had been presented to me by the Queen of England; and,
as the spectators viewed the royal gift, the most profound silence prevailed among them. When
I had sufficiently gratified them by displaying the lump of brass and glass, I remarked that
I would appear on the next evening as Jem Baggs in the Wandering Minstrel. This announcement
was received with shouts of approbation; and bowing almost to the foot-lights, I withdrew.

The next night, the audience was equally large and enthusiastic, and my "farewell speech" was
so deeply affecting, that there was not a dry eye in the house.

Brother Pratt urged me to become a regular member of his company; but, although he offered
me a good salary, and glowingly depicted the pleasant life of a strolling player, I declined,
not having any ambition in that way. Besides, it was my duty to get on to Pittsburg with Mrs.
Raymond, without any unnecessary delay.

Having received nearly fifty dollars as my share of the proceeds, I took my leave of Brother
Pratt and his company; and, accompanied, of course, by my fair friend, resumed my journey.

I wish I had sufficient time and space to describe all the adventures through which we passed,
prior to our arrival in Pittsburg. But such details would occupy too much room, and I must
make the most of the few pages that are left for me to occupy.

We crossed the Alleghanies, and, taking the canal at Johnstown, soon reached Pittsburg. Here
we made some essential improvements in our garments, and put up at a respectable hotel, Mrs.
Raymond still sustaining her masculine character.

By diligent inquiry, we learned that the villain, Livingston, was in the city; and my fair
friend prepared to avenge the base wrongs which he had inflicted upon her.

FOOTNOTES:

[I] All who have the good fortune to know Bill Pratt alias "The Original Beader," will acknowledge
that a wittier, funnier or better man never breathed.

[J] This word, in theatrical parlance, signifies "to employ language which the author of the
play never wrote."

CHAPTER VII

A deed of blood and horror.

We had no difficulty in ascertaining the place of Livingston's abode; for he was well known
in the city. He resided in a handsome house situated on one of the principal streets; and we
discovered that the lawless rascal was actually engaged in the practice of the law!

"My dear friend," said Mrs. Raymond to me one day, as we were strolling along the banks of
the river, "I will not suffer you to involve yourself in any trouble on my account. You must
have nothing to do with this Livingston. You must remain entirely in the back-ground. To me
belongs the task of punishing him. I tell you frankly that I shall kill the man. He is not
fit to live, and he must not be permitted to continue his career of villainy. Whatever may
be my fate, do not, I entreat you, by unhappy on my account. When I have shed the heart's blood
of Livingston, I shall be willing to die upon the scaffold. To the very last moment of my life,
I shall cherish for you a sentiment of the most affectionate gratitude; you sacrificed all
your own plans in order to accompany me here, and, throughout the entire long journey, you
have treated me with a degree of kindness and attention, which I can never forget while life
remains. But a truce to melancholy; let us change the subject."

"With all my heart," said I; and leaving the river side, we walked up into the centre of the city.

We passed an elegant dwelling-house on the door of which was a silver plate bearing the name
"Livingston." This was the residence of the villain who ruined Mrs. Raymond.

A carriage drove up before the door, and from it leaped a tall, fine-looking man, dressed in
the height of fashion. He assisted a beautiful and elegantly attired lady to alight from the
vehicle, and conducted her into the house.

"That man is Livingston, and that woman must be one of his wives," said Mrs. Raymond, with
a bitter smile, as she placed her hand in her bosom, where, I knew, she carried a dirk-knife.

"My friend," resumed she, after a pause, "leave me; I may as well perform my bloody task now,
as at any other time. I will invent some pretext for requesting an interview with Livingston,
and then, without uttering a single word, I will stab him to the heart. Farewell, forget me,
and be happy!"

"Stay," said I--"you must not leave me thus. Let me persuade you to abandon, at least for the
present, your terrible design with reference to Livingston. You are agitated, excited; wait
until you are cool, and capable of sober reflections."

Mrs. Raymond regarded me with a look of anger, as she said, passionately--

"And was it for the purpose of giving me such advice as this, that you accompanied me from
Philadelphia to this city? You knew, all the while, the object of my journey, and yet now,
in the eleventh hour, when an excellent opportunity presents itself for the accomplishment
of that object, you seek to dissuade me from my purpose. Have I entirely mistaken your character?
Are you really as weak-minded, and as devoid of courage and spirit, as your language would
seem to indicate? When that young ruffian mutilated you in Philadelphia, didn't you consider
that you acted perfectly right? Well, this Livingston has destroyed the happiness of my life,
and transformed me from a lady of wealth into a penniless beggar. Say does he not deserve to die?"

"Why--yes," was my reluctant reply--"but then it seems too terrible to go about the horrible
business deliberately, and in cold blood."

"He coolly and deliberately planned and effected the ruin of my peace, happiness and fortune,"
rejoined Mrs. Raymond, in a tone of fixed determination--"and it is therefore but just that
he should be coolly and deliberately slain. Once more, farewell; by everything sacred, I swear
that you shall not turn me from my purpose. My regard for you is great--but, if you seek to
detain me by force, your heart shall be made acquainted with the point of my knife!"

"I have no idea of using force," said I, reproachfully--"but, if I had, no such threat as the
one which you have just now made, would deter me. Go, my friend, go--do as you will; but I
will go with you, for I swear that I will not leave you."

This announcement deeply affected Mrs. Raymond, who embraced me and begged my pardon for the
language which she had used.

"Forgive me, my best, my only friend," said she--"the loyalty and devotion which you have always
manifested towards me should have prompted different expressions.--If you are determined to
accompany me, and see me through this business, follow me."

I obeyed, hoping to be able to prevent the perpetration of the terrible deed which she meditated.

She rang the bell at the door, which was opened by a servant.

"I wish to see your master, instantly, on particular business," said the disguised woman.

"What name, sir?" demanded the servant.

"It matters not. Say to Mr. Livingston that two gentlemen wish to see him on business of the
greatest importance."

The servant disappeared, but soon returned, saying that she would conduct us to her master.

We followed her into a handsomely furnished library, where Mr. Livingston was seated, looking
over some letters. He glanced at us carelessly, and said--

"Well, young gentlemen, what can I do for you to-day? Do you wish to consult me on any matter
of law? I am entirely at your service."

It was evident that the villain did not recognize the woman whom he had so basely wronged.

Mrs. Raymond uttered not one single word, but, thrusting her hand into her bosom, she slowly
approached the author of her ruin, who still continued to peruse his letters in entire unconsciousness
of the terrible danger that hung over him.

I watched Mrs. Raymond with the closest attention, fully determined to spring forward at the
critical moment and prevent the desperate woman from accomplishing her deadly purpose.

It was a deeply interesting and thrilling scene, and one which I shall never forget. There
sat the intended victim, whose soul was hovering on the awful precincts of an endless eternity;
there stood the avenger of her own wrongs, her right hand nervously grasping the hilt of the
weapon in her bosom, her face deadly pale, and her eyes flashing with wild excitement. And
there I stood, trembling with agitation, and ready to spring forward at the proper time to
prevent the consummation of a bloody tragedy.

Mr. Livingston suddenly looked up from his letters, and started when he beheld the pale and
wrathful countenance of Mrs. Raymond, whose eyes were fixed upon him with an expression of
the most deadly hatred.

"Your face seems strongly familiar to me; have we not met before?" asked Livingston.

"Yes," calmly replied Mrs. Raymond--"we have met before."

"That voice!" cried the doomed villain--"surely I know it. Who are you, and what want you with me?"

"I am the victim of your treacherous villainy, and I want revenge!" screamed Mrs. Raymond,
as, with the quickness of lightning, and before I could prevent her, she drew her weapon and
plunged it into the heart of Livingston, who fell from his chair to the floor and died instantly.

"Now I am satisfied," said the woman, as she coolly wiped the blood from the blade of her knife.

Language cannot depict the horror which the contemplation of this bloody deed caused within
me. True, I had myself slain a human being--but then it was done in self-defence, and amid
all the heat and excitement of a personal contest. This deed, on the contrary, had been committed,
coolly and deliberately; and, although Mrs. Raymond's wrongs were undoubtedly very great, I
really could not find it in my heart to justify her in what she had done.

How bitterly I reproached myself for not having adopted some effectual means of hindering the
performance of that appalling deed, even at the risk of incurring Mrs. Raymond's severe and
eternal displeasure! I felt myself to be in some measure an accessory to the crime; and I feared
the law would, at all events, consider me as such.

"What is done cannot be helped now," said I to Mrs. Raymond, who stood calmly surveying the
body of her victim--"come let us leave the house and seek safety in flight. We may possibly
escape the consequence of this bloody act."

"No," said the woman--"I shall not stir an inch. I have relieved the world of a monster, and
now I am ready to receive my reward, even if it be the scaffold. But go, my friend--go, and
secure your own safety."

"No, I will not leave you, even if I have to share your fate," was my reply. That was a very
foolish determination, I admit; for how could my remaining with her, do her any good? I was
merely placing myself in a position of the utmost peril. But I thought it wrong to desert Mrs.
Raymond in that dark and trying hour; and therefore, as she refused to escape, I resolved to
remain with her.

Some one softly opened the door, and a female voice said--

"My dear, are you particularly engaged? May I come in?"

Hearing no reply, the fair speaker entered with a smile on her rosy lips. This lady was the
newly-made wife of Livingston. She had been, of course, in happy ignorance of his true character,
and of the fact that he was already the husband of several wives.

On seeing us, she evinced surprise, for she knew not of her husband having visitors. Suddenly,
her eyes fell upon Livingston's bleeding corpse, which lay upon the floor. On seeing this horrid
spectacle, she gave utterance to a piercing scream, and fell down insensible.

That shrill, agonizing scream penetrated every part of the house, and brought all the inmates
to the library, to see what had happened. Horror took possession of the group, as they gazed
upon the awful scene. For a few minutes, there reigned the most profound silence. This was
at last broken by one of the male servants, who demanded--

"Who has done this?"

"I did it," replied Mrs. Raymond, calmly, "I alone am guilty. Here is the weapon with which
I did the deed. This young man here is entirely innocent; he tried to prevent the act, but
I was too quick for him. Let me be conveyed at once to prison."

Officers being sent for, soon arrived and took us both into custody, notwithstanding the passionate
protestations of Mrs. Raymond that I had no hand whatever in the affair.

"That must be shown to the satisfaction of higher authorities than we are," said one of the
officers. "At all events, it is our duty to secure this young man as a witness. If he is innocent,
he will doubtless be able to prove it."

Half an hour afterwards, I was an inmate of the Pittsburg jail, in an apartment adjoining that
occupied by Mrs. Raymond, whose real sex still remained undiscovered.

CHAPTER VIII

An Escape, and a Triumph.

