"LONDON, Aug. 29.--Yesterday the marriage took place of Montgomery Bell to Mrs. Vivian Latham,
both of New York. The wedding, at the registrar's and quite informal, was followed by a breakfast
given the couple by Mrs. Center--who chanced, with several other intimates of the American
colony, to be in the city en route to the German baths,--at her apartment which she always
keeps in readiness for occupancy. Mr. Bell, who is a member of all the best clubs, is known
socially as the 'Indispensable.' Mr. and Mrs. Bell will return to New York in November and
open their magnificent house at Central Park East with a series of the delightful entertainments
which they both so well know how to render unique."

XIV

THE OASIS

September 8. Three lowering days of wind and rain, and Summer, after a feigned departure, has
returned to complete her task of perfecting.

She does this year after year--the marvel is that we are ever deceived; but after all, what
is it but the conflict between arbitrary and natural law? The almanac-maker says that on the
first day of September autumn is due. Nature, the orbit-maker, proclaims it summer until, the
month three-quarters old, the equinox is crossed. Nature is always right, and after the usual
breezy argument sends Summer, her garments a bit storm-tattered, perchance, back to her own.

The ill wind that dashed the tall auratum lilies in the garden to the ground, stripped the
clinging fingers of the sweet peas from their trellis, and decapitated the heavy-headed dahlias,
has blown me good, held me indoors awhile, sent me to my attic confessional once more, with
conscience for priest, and the twins for acolytes, though they presently turned catechists
with an entirely new series of questions.

When I have not opened my desk or my garden book for some time, and the planting season, be
it of spring or of autumn, as now, overtakes me unawares, I am always newly convinced that
gardening is the truly religious life, for it implies a continual preparation for the future,
a treading in the straight and narrow path that painful experience alone can mark, an absorption
beyond compare, and the continual exercise of hope and love, but above all, of entire childlike
faith.

When the time had come in the creative evolution for the stamping of the perfected animal with
the Divine image that forever separates him from all previous types, it was no wonder that
God set man, in whom the perpetual struggle between the body and soul was to take place, in
a garden for his education.

       *       *       *       *       *

Recently the boys have been absorbed in their little printing press, which they have established
in my attic corner, the present working motive having come from the card announcing Sylvia's
marriage to the world in general, according to Mr. Latham's desire. Richard secured one of
these and busied himself an entire morning in setting it in type, for the first time in his
experience getting the capitals and small letters in their proper places. The result was so
praiseworthy that Evan hunted up a large box of ornamental cards for them in town, and for
two days they have been "filling orders" for every one in the household.

I print the names they wish to copy very distinctly in big letters. Richard does the type-setting,
which is altogether too slow work for Ian, who, as pressman, does the inking and printing,
and in the process has actually learned his tardy letters. As to the distributing and cleaning
of the type, I find a little assistance is gratefully accepted, even by patient Richard, whose
dear little pointed fingers by this time have become tired, and fumble.

To-day, having exhausted the simple family names, they have tried combinations and experiments
with the words Mr., Mrs., and Miss, much to their own amusement, "Miss Timothy Saunders" being
considered a huge joke.

Suddenly Ian looked up with one of his most compelling, whimsical smiles, and said, "Barbara,
grandpop's Mrs. was grandma, and she's in heaven, but where is Mrs. Uncle Martin?"

Rather startled, I said that I didn't know,--that there had never been any Mrs. Uncle Martin.

"Why not?" persisted Ian, an answer that is simply an acknowledgment of ignorance never being
accepted by a child. Before I could think Richard chirped out: "But Aunt Lavinia hasn't any
Mr. for her card neiver, and Martha, she said the other day that there was a Mr. and a Mrs.
for everybody, only sometimes they couldn't find each other for ever so long. She told that
to Effie, and I heard her."

A short pause, and then Ian jumped up, clapping his hands with joy, as the solution of the
problem flashed across him.

"I know what's happened, Barbara; maybe Uncle Martin's Mrs. and Aunt Lavinia's Mr. has gone
and got lost together, and some day they'll find it out and bring each ovver back! Do you think
they will, so we can have some more weddings and pink ice cream, and couldn't we hurry up and
help find them? I guess we better print him some Mrs. cards so as in case."

I had drifted into gardening work on paper again, and I believe I said that he had better ask
Uncle Martin what he thought about the matter, and at that moment the bell rang for luncheon.

The ringing of bells for meals in this house is what Lavinia Dorman calls "a relic of barbarism,"
that she greatly deplores; but as I tell her, our family gathers from so many points of the
compass that if the maid announced the meals, she would have to be gifted with the instinct
of a chaser of strayed freight cars.

Ian's queries have brought up a subject that has deluded and eluded my hopes all summer, and
has finally ended in the people that I hoped would drift through the doorway of one of my most
substantial air castles refusing so to do, or else being too blind to see the open door.

Martin and Lavinia are the best possible friends, have been constantly in each other's society,
see from nearly the same point of view, and both agree and disagree upon the same subjects,
but they have not settled the question of loneliness of living as I hoped, by making the companionship
permanent, via matrimony.

Of course, I did not expect them to fall in love exactly as Evan and I or Horace and Sylvia
did--that belongs to spring and summer; still, I thought that when they started worm-hunting
together, and played checkers every evening, that they were beginning to find each other mutually
indispensable, at least.

But no. Martin stored away his papers in the old desk, and went to New York a week ago to see
several suites of bachelor apartments that had been offered him.

He writes this morning that he has found one to his liking, and will return to-night, if he
may, and stay over to-morrow to pack his things. Meanwhile Miss Lavinia has sent her maids
to clean and open her house in "Greenwich Village," and will go home on Monday, spending her
final Sunday with me. Josephus went with the maids; the country had a demoralizing effect upon him.

Miss Lavinia has been agitating moving uptown, several of her friends at the Bluffs insisting
that an apartment near the Park is much more suitable for her than the little house so far
from the social centre, saying it is no wonder she is lonely and out of things; but yesterday
she told me that she had abandoned the idea of change, and had sent orders to have her old
back yard garden dismantled and the whole plot paved, as it was now only a suitable place for
drying clothes. Also that she had written to ask her father's cousin Lydia, whose Staten Island
home had been built in by progress, very much like her own garden, to come to pass the winter
with her; and, lest she should repent of so rash an act, she had given the letter to Evan before
the ink was fairly dry, as he passed the cottage on the way to the train, that he might post
it in the city.

One consolation remains to me in the wreck of my romantic hopes for her--Miss Lavinia has liked
our neighbourhood so well that she has taken the Alton cottage that she now occupies on a three
years' lease, and intends living here from May to October. The rambling garden is full of old-time,
hardy plants and roses, and oh, what good times we shall have together there next spring, for
of course she will stop with me when she is getting things in order, and I can spare her enough
roots and cuttings to fill every spare inch of ground,--so, with Sylvia at Pine Ridge, what
more can I ask? The strain and hubbub of the Bluffs seems to be quite vanishing from the foreground
and merging with the horizon.

That reminds me that the people are drifting back quite rapidly now. The golfers are afield
again Sundays, and all talk of introducing fox hunting with tame foxes; but they will have
to learn the land, with its dips and rocks, better first, or there will be a pretty crop of
cracked crowns for father. At present, I think that New England Prejudice will soon however
get the upper hand here, and tighten her hold of the reins that seemed slipping from her grasp,
which is well, for she has long borne aloft the only standard of national morality whose code
is not a sliding scale.

       *       *       *       *       *

September 9. Martin came back to-night. As he entered the house with Evan I positively did
not know him, for he has shaved off his mustache and queer little pussy-cat whiskers, and with
them has gone his "pudgyness." He is really a very fine-looking man, and his features are developed
by the shaving process in an unexpected way. He seems so wide awake, too, and alive to everything
that passes, that I could see that father, who came from the office to greet him, had difficulty
in restraining his surprise, but he contented himself by asking:--

"How did you fare with the publishers? Did you fall among thieves or among friends?"

"That is equivalent to asking if my book has been accepted, as it is only when work is refused
that we call the mediums through which we seek to reach the public hard names. Yes, the fate
of my book is soon told; it has found its place, and is to be fully illustrated as well, though
it will take me many months to collect the unique material they desire; this insures me a busy
winter, for which I am not only prepared but eager.

"I wish I could as easily tell you what this summer here has done for me, Dick," and he leaned
over the chair in which father had seated himself and laid his arm affectionately across his
shoulder. "I think in asking me here you rescued me from as dangerous a condition of mental
apathy as when you stood by my bed so many years ago."

"Don't thank me," said father, leaning back and looking up at him, "thank God's sunshine, work,
the babies here, and why not woman's society also,--you used to appreciate that, too, eh, Martin,
old man? Give everybody his, or rather her, due."

"Yes," I heard him answer, as if pondering the matter, while I fled discreetly upstairs at
this juncture, "you doubtless are right; Lavinia Dorman's criticisms have been of infinite
value in ridding my work of a litter of words that encumbered the spirit and purpose of it.
She is direct and to the point, and yet withal most sympathetic. I had thought of dedicating
the book to her in some private way, for really we are joint heirs, as it were, in so many
traditions and habits of old New York, that it would not seem strained or inappropriate."

"On the contrary, I think it most suitable, and I would not go to any great pains to hide the
compliment of the dedication under a bushel of disguise either, if I were you. The Lydia Languish
age of abnormal privacy and distorted, unhealthy sensibility has fortunately passed. Nowadays
women like men to be direct, outspoken, definite, where they are concerned."

"Do you think so?" asked Martin, in real surprise. "I feared possibly that it might annoy her."

"I know so--annoy her, fudge!" was father's comment.

       *      *       *       *       *

When we went in to dinner, Miss Lavinia at once noticed the change in Martin's appearance,
and said, in a spirit of mischief which of course I alone noticed:--

"Back from the city, and with new clothes, too,--how very smart and becoming they are."

But poor Martin was quite guileless, and looking down at his coat in a puzzled way, as if to
make doubly sure, replied, "No, it cannot be my clothes, for they are the same." Then, brightening,
as the possible reason occurred to him: "Perhaps it may be my shaven face; you see, the barber
made an error in the trimming of my decorations yesterday, and he thought it better to take
them entirely off and have them grow afresh, but I had not thought of the matter in the light
of an improvement."

"But it is one, most decidedly," continued Miss Lavinia, nodding brightly across at him, while
father, who now realized the change he could not locate, cried:--

"Don't let them grow again, my boy. You look ten years younger, at the very least, which you
know at our age is not to be despised!"

Then we all grew hilarious, and talked together like a lot of school children, and when the
boys came in to dessert, as usual, they also were infectiously boisterous over the catching
of some bass in the river where Timothy Saunders had taken them that afternoon as a special
treat. They clamoured and begged so for Uncle Martin to stop over the next day for fishing
and have one more good time with them, that he, feeling flattered almost to the point of embarrassment,
yielded upon Evan's suggesting that, instead of going by the eight o'clock morning train as
he intended, he could wait for one late in the evening, which would get him to town before
eleven. For Martin was to move into his new bachelor apartments the following morning.

The three men lingered long at the table, smoking, the talk punctuated by long periods of silence,
each regretting in his own way the present terminating of the summer intercourse, and yet,
I fancy, realizing that it had lasted exactly the safe length of time. To be able to adapt
oneself temporarily to the presence of outsiders in a house is a healthy habit, but to adjust
a family to do it permanently is to lose what can never be regained. Miss Lavinia and I agreed
upon that long ago, and for this reason I am very much surprised that she has asked her cousin
Lydia to spend the winter, with a view of making the arrangement permanent.

The boys brought some of their games downstairs, and succeeded in adding half an hour to their
bedtime by coaxing Aunt Lavinia to play with them, until I finally had to almost carry them
to bed, they grew so suddenly sleepy from their day's fishing.

When I returned below stairs after the boys were asleep, father had gone to the village, Evan
was walking up and down outside, all the windows and doors were open again, and the sultry
air answered the katydids' cry for "Some-more-heat, some-more-heat."

Miss Lavinia was still in the hall, sitting on the lower step of the stairs, for the boys had
been using the broad landing that made a turn at the top of the three steps as a place to play
their games. Martin stood leaning on the newel post, and from the few words I heard I knew
that he was telling her about the proposed dedication, so I went out and joined Evan, for it
seems as though we had had little leisure outdoors together of late, and as if it was time
to make it up as best we might.

Then, once again, as we crossed the streak of light that streamed like a narrow moon path from
the doorway, Evan paused and nodded his head toward the hall. I turned--there sat Miss Lavinia
and Martin Cortright on the stairs, playing with the boys'--jack-straws!

"After this, what?" I asked, in my mirth leaning backward on Evan's supporting arm.

"To be pat, it ought to be the deluge," chuckled Evan; "but as these are prosy times, it simply
means the end has been reached, and that to-morrow they will put away mild summer madness,
and return to the Whirlpool to paddle about decorously as of yore."

I find that I am not the only person who is disappointed at the absence of matrimonial intentions
between Martin and Miss Lavinia. The postmistress told me yesterday that she's been expecting
to hear of a second wedding any day, as when one took place it always meant three, though she
couldn't "fetch the third couple together, even in her mind's eye," which I have found to be
usually a capacious and well filled optic.

Mrs. Barton also stopped Martha Corkle on the road, and said with an insinuating sneer, "She'd
always supposed that the gentleman from New York who lodged with her was making up to the proud
old maid at the Doctor's, but as he evidently wasn't going to, she'd advise Mrs. Evan to watch
out, as Miss Lavinia, doubtless being disappointed, might set her cap for the Doctor himself,
and then the Lord knows what would happen, men being so easily flattered and trapped."

Martha was indignant, and I must say very rude, for she snapped back: "I wonder at that same
bein' your holdin', Mrs. Barton, bein' as you've five maid daughters that's not so by their
desirin', folks do say as knows."

Mud throwers should be careful to wear gloves,--their ammunition is sticky.

       *       *       *       *       *

September 10. This morning father and I were obliged to go to town upon some hospital business,
and as we had to remain there for luncheon, or perhaps longer, we took the train instead of
driving over, leaving Lavinia to pack, so that she might have a free Saturday to drive with
me to bid Mrs. Bradford good-by, and learn the latest news of Sylvia and Horace. Meanwhile
the boys were to go fishing with Martin, who is as careful of them as possible, taking their
lunch with them.

They did not have good luck, however, and growing restless and tired of fishing without catching,
Martin brought them home by three o'clock, and as both he and Miss Lavinia had finished their
preparations for leaving, they went out to the seat by the rose arbour to enjoy what was left
of the glorious afternoon, for it has been one of those days that come in dreams, so perfect
that one knows it cannot last.

"I hope that I shall not lose all track of you this winter," said Miss Lavinia. "Of course
you will be busy, but you might spare a lonely woman an evening now and then for piquet, or
whist if Evan or the Doctor should come to town."

"Lose track of you, Miss Lavinia,--how could that be possible?" queried Martin in mild-eyed
astonishment. "You know there will be a second volume of the book for you to read and criticise,
besides all the illustrations to discuss. No, I hoped that you could spare me two definite
evenings every week, at least until the work is in press, though I suppose that is asking a
great deal of a woman having so many friends, and places to go."

"If you could see the way I spend my evenings alone, you would not hesitate. Of course I do
dine out once in a time, and people come to me, but between times--I envy even Josephus, who
can have social enjoyment any time by merely scratching on the door and running along the palings
to the neighbours."

"I am glad, for I decided upon taking the Washington Square rooms, instead of moving up nearer
the Clubs as my friends advised, because I thought it would be so much more convenient if,
in proof correcting, I should require to consult you hastily."

Miss Lavinia felt a pleasurable flush rising to her cheeks, when it was chilled by the memory
of her invitation to her cousin Lydia. Why had she given it? Then the realization that a third
party would be unwelcome to her made the flush return and deepen.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Uncle Martin, where is your Mrs.? Barbara said I'd have to ask you 'cause she didn't know,"
suddenly asked Ian's voice, so close behind them that they both started. He had been up in
the attic to get some of his precious cards, one of which he now held in front of Martin Cortright's
gaze.

"My Mrs.! Why, what do you mean?" he asked in uncomprehending astonishment, taking the boy
on his knee; but when the little scamp had explained, the stupidest person in the world could
not plead ignorance.

"And," Ian continued, "Dick and me thought that p'r'aps if your Mrs. and Aunt Lavinia's Mr.
had got lost together we could find them for you, and then there'd be two more weddings with
pink ice cream. We're going to look this afternoon, and we're going to ask Martha to help us,
'cause she found her Mr. after he'd been lost a great while, Effie says."

"And he was right here in the place, too," chimed in Richard, "only he didn't seem to see her,
so p'r'aps yours aren't far off, and we might get them in time to have the wedding to-night
before you go. Wouldn't you like to be in a wedding, Aunt Lavinia?"

"Mercy no, child, I'm too old!" she ejaculated, now as red as a Jacqueminot rose, while the
boys ran off in the direction of Martha's, to ask her where it was best to begin this important
quest, the prize for which was pink ice cream.

Miss Lavinia did not look up for a moment, and when she did she found Martin's eyes fastened
on her face, and in them a strange enlightenment that shook her like an electric bolt, as he
arose and stood before her, saying:--

"You need never be old. Some prefer June strawberries and others September peaches, that is
all. When once in June I thought to gather the strawberries, I found they belonged to another,
for I loved your friend, who was Barbara's mother."

"And I loved your friend, who is Barbara's father," Miss Lavinia said, rising and facing him.

"As they married each other, why may not we? I know now why my work has prospered this summer
and why life seems good again. Ian's little fancy shows me the truth."

"Our Mr. and Mrs. were not far off, then," said she, laying her hand on his, while she looked
into his face with one of those rare smiles of unreserved confidence that makes Lavinia Dorman
more fascinating than half the younger women that I know.

After a moment of romance they waked up to the fact of the present and its comical aspect;
the boys' talk of weddings brought that necessary episode quickly before them.

"May I tell the Doctor when he returns? Shall we tell them all?" asked Martin, eagerly, and
Miss Lavinia sat suddenly down again and realized that she still was in the world of responsibilities.

"I think I would rather wait and do it all at once, after--after the pink ice-cream," she said,
as he laughed at her hesitation over the word. "I don't like keeping it from Barbara, but I'm
so tired of talk and fuss and feathers and Mrs. Grundy." "Then let us get it quietly over next
week, or tomorrow, if you say, unless you wish time to feel sure, or perhaps to think it over,"
said Martin, with enthusiasm.

"Time to think it over!" cried Miss Lavinia, springing lightly to her feet. "No, I'm sure I
don't wish to think, I want to act--to do things my own way and give no one a chance to speak
until it is done. What have I been doing all my life but thinking, and waiting for it to be
a convenient and suitable time for me to do this or that, wondering what others will think
if I do or don't; thinking that the disagreeable was duty, often simply because it was disagreeable.
Surely you have been hampered by this perpetual thinking too, and watching the thumb of custom
to see if it pointed up or down. No, I'm done with it. We've agreed to be married, so why not
this very afternoon, and have the wedding over before you go, as the boys suggested?"

"The best possible idea, though I should have hardly dared suggest it," said Martin, tramping
to and fro in excitement. "How shall we manage? Go down here to the rectory?"

"I would rather go over to town," said Miss Lavinia, beginning, in spite of herself, to realize
difficulties. "We do not know who might drop in here."

"Very well," said Martin, decisively, looking at his watch. "I have it! Timothy is off to-day;
I will harness the grays to the stanhope, as we can't wait to send to the stable, and we will
drive over the back way by the Ridge and be home again by dinner time. The rector of All Saints'
was a classmate of mine, and I met him again only the other day, so we shall have no trouble
there."

"Are you sure you can harness the horses properly?" asked Miss Lavinia, with characteristic
caution, and then smiling at herself, as Martin hurried off to the stable.

       *       *       *       *       *

In less than twenty minutes the sober gray horses turned out of the stable yard and up the
road upon the most remarkable trip of their career. Nothing strange was noticeable about the
turnout, except that the traces hung a trifle loose, and that the occupants sat unusually far
back under the hood for so pleasant an afternoon. That is, until after they had passed Martha's
house in the lane and turned into the unfrequented back highway, then they both leaned forward,
gave a sigh of relief, and, looking at each other, laughed aloud.

"Do you realize that we are eloping, like runaway school children?" said Miss Lavinia, "we
two hitherto sober-minded Knickerbockers?"

"I realize that I like what we are doing very much, whatever it may be called," replied Martin,
"and that it is very considerate of you to spare me and do it in this way. The conventional
affair is very hard on a man of my years, all of whose contemporaries are either bald or rheumatic;
besides, now I think of it, it is merely carrying out the ever-present precedent. My father's
great-great-grand father and mother eloped in 1689 from Staten Island to the Bouerie, and the
boat upset when they were going back."

"Mercy on us!" exclaimed Miss Lavinia, "I hope we shall not upset! I wonder if the wheels are
on securely. I thought I heard something rattle. There it is again."

As they reached the bottom of the long hill, Martin let the reins hang loose on the horses'
necks and, lowering the hood, looked back to see if he could find the cause of the jolting
sound, accompanied by panting, as of a dog running. Then he gave an exclamation of impatience,
and pulled the horses up short, for there, alternately running and lifting up their feet and
swinging, were the twins, clinging to the back of the gig!

Miss Lavinia gave a cry of dismay. "Where did you come from, and where are you going?" she
questioned rather sharply. "We went to Martha's, you know," said Ian, as if his errand had
been one of such importance that it was impossible she should forget it, "and she wasn't there,
so we thought we'd just look for those people we said about, by ourselves. But we couldn't
find anybody, only a shiny black snake by the road, and he rubber-necked at us and spit some
'fore he ran away. Then we saw grandpop's horses coming, and when you went by we hooked on, and--"

"'Cause we thought if you was looking for those people and found them, then we'd be there for
the pink ice cream," added Richard, cheerfully, supplementing Ian's story when his breath gave out.

"I suppose we must turn around and take them home," said Miss Lavinia, with a sigh.

"Not a bit of it. Let them come with us; it is too late to turn back, unless," he added, with
a ring of mock humility in his tone, "you have changed your mind and wish time to think. As
for me, I've turned my back on even thinking whether they will be missed or who will worry.

"Scramble in, boys, and curl up here in front. You are just in time; two of these people you
were searching for are going to be married this afternoon. We are going to the wedding, and
you shall be best men," and the boys settled down, chuckling and whispering, but presently
Ian looked up, as light dawned, and cried: "I spy! It's you, Uncle Martin, and Aunt Lavinia
is your Mrs., only you couldn't find her all summer till to-day," and he hugged his friend
around the legs, which were all he could reach, but Richard leaned backward until his head
rested on Miss Lavinia's knees, and he reached up his cooing lips to be kissed.

The rest of the ride to town was uneventful, except that when they reached the outskirts they
met Jenks-Smith's coach loaded with Whirlpool people, but the Lady of the Bluffs saw nothing
strange in the combination, and merely shook her parasol at them, calling, "I'm sorry to hear
you're flitting, just when it's getting lively again, too!"

Fortunately the rector of All Saints' was at home, likewise the requisite number of his family,
for witnesses. Then it transpired that the couple had never thought of the ring, and while
Martin went out to buy one, Miss Lavinia was left sitting on the edge of a very stiff sofa
with a boy on either side of her, with the Rectory family drawn up opposite like an opposing
force, which did not encourage easy conversation.

However, the agony was soon over, and the bride and groom left, Martin giving his old classmate,
to whom the world had been penurious, a hand-shake that, when examined by the breathless family
a few moments later, was found to yield at least a new parlour carpet, an easy-chair for the
Rector's bent back, and a new clerical suit to cover his gaunt frame.

"Now comes the pink ice cream," sang Ian, dancing a-tiptoe as they reached the street; and
there being but one good restaurant in town, on the high street, next to the saddler's shop
where the red goat harness was still displayed, the party drove there, and the pink ice cream
was eaten, good and full measure thereof, while on their way out the coveted goat harness found
itself being taken from the window to be packed away under the seat of the gig.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was almost dinner time when father and I returned to-night, and the boys were squeezed together
in a chair on the piazza, close to Miss Lavinia, while Martin sat near by on the balustrade.
The boys were in a great state of giggles, and kept clapping their hands to their mouths as
if they feared something would escape. I hurried upstairs, not wishing to make dinner late,
as I knew Martin expected to take the nine o'clock train, just as father came in saying that
Timothy had returned, and that he found the horses in a wonderful sweat, and feared they were
sick, as they hadn't been out all day.

By this time we were in the hall and walking toward the dining room. Martin stopped short,
as if to say something, and then changed his mind, while a bumping at the pantry door attracted
the attention of us all.

Out came Ian, a portion of the goat harness on his head and shoulders, followed by Richard,
around whose neck the reins were fastened, and between them they carried the great heavy silver
tea-tray only used on state occasions. In the centre of it rested a pink sofa pillow, upon
which some small, flat object like a note was lying.

