As George's guardian, Amelia begged Miss Osborne to live in the Russell Square house, but Miss
Osborne did not choose to do so. And Amelia also declined to occupy the gloomy old mansion.
But one day, clad in deep sables, she went with George to visit the deserted house which she
had not entered since she was a girl. They went into the great blank rooms, the walls of which
bore the marks where pictures and mirrors had hung. Then they went up the great stone staircase
into the upper rooms, into that where grandpapa died, as Georgie said in a whisper, and then
higher still into George's own room. The boy was still clinging by her side, but she thought
of another besides him. She knew that it had been his father's room before it was his.

"Look here, mother," said George, standing by the window, "here's G.O. scratched on the glass
with a diamond; I never saw it before. I never did it."

"It was your father's room long before you were born, George," she said, and she blushed as
she kissed the boy.

She was very silent as they drove back to Richmond, where they had taken a temporary house,
but after that time practical matters occupied her mind. There were many directions to be given
and much business to transact, and Amelia immediately found herself in the whirl of quite a
new life, and experienced the extreme joy of having George continually with her, as he was
at that time removed from Mr. Veal's on an unlimited holiday.

George's aunt, Mrs. Bullock, who had before her marriage been Miss Osborne, thought it wise
now to become reconciled with Amelia and her boy. Consequently one day her chariot drove up
to Amelia's house, and the Bullock family made an irruption into the garden, where Amelia was
reading.

Jos was in an arbour, placidly dipping strawberries into wine, and the Major was giving a back
to George, who chose to jump over him. He went over his head, and bounded into the little group
of Bullocks, with immense black bows on their hats, and huge black sashes, accompanying their
mourning mamma.

"He is just the age for Rosa," the fond parent thought, and glanced towards that dear child,
a little miss of seven years. "Rosa, go and kiss your dear cousin," added Mrs. Bullock. "Don't
you know me, George? I am your aunt."

"I know you well enough," George said; "but I don't like kissing, please," and he retreated
from the obedient caresses of his cousin.

"Take me to your dear mamma, you droll child," Mrs. Bullock said; and those ladies met, after
an absence of more than fifteen years. During Emmy's poverty Mrs. Bullock had never thought
about coming to see her; but now that she was decently prosperous in the world, her sister-in-law
came to her as a matter of course.

So did many others. In fact, before the period of grief for Mr. Osborne's death had subsided,
Emmy, had she wished, could have become a leader in fashionable society. But that was not her
desire: worn out with the long period of poverty, care, and separation from George, her one
wish was a change of scene and thought.

Because of this wish, some time later, on a fine morning, when the Batavier steamboat was about
to leave its dock, we see among the carriages being taken on, a very neat, handsome travelling
carriage, from which a courier, Kirsch by name, got out and informed inquirers that the carriage
belonged to an enormously rich Nabob from Calcutta and Jamaica, with whom he was engaged to
travel. At this moment a young gentleman who had been warned off the bridge between the paddle-boxes,
and who had dropped thence onto the roof of Lord Methusala's carriage, from which he made his
way over other carriages until he had clambered onto his own, descended thence and through
the window into the body of the carriage to the applause of the couriers looking on.

"Nous allons avoir une belle traversée, Monsieur George," said Kirsch with a grin, as he lifted
his gold laced cap.

"Bother your French!" said the young gentleman.

"Where's the biscuits, ay?" Whereupon Kirsch answered him in such English as he could command
and produced the desired repast.

The imperious young gentleman who gobbled the biscuits (and indeed it was time to refresh himself,
for he had breakfasted at Richmond full three hours before) was our young friend George Osborne.
Uncle Jos and his mamma were on the quarter-deck with Major Dobbin, and the four were about
to make a summer tour. Amelia wore a straw bonnet with black ribbons, and otherwise dressed
in mourning, but the little bustle and holiday of the journey pleased and excited her, and
from that day throughout the entire journey she continued to be very happy and pleased. Wherever
they stopped Dobbin used to carry about for her her stool and sketch book, and admired her
drawings as they never had been admired before. She sat upon steamer decks and drew crags and
castles, or she mounted upon donkeys and descended to ancient robber towers, attended by her
two escorts, Georgie and Dobbin. Dobbin was interpreter for the party, having a good military
knowledge of the German language, and he and the delighted George, who was having a wonderful
trip, fought over again the campaigns of the Rhine and the Palatinate. In the course of a few
weeks of constant conversation with Herr Kirsch on the box of the carriage, George made great
advance in the knowledge of High Dutch, and could talk to hotel waiters and postilions in a
way that charmed his mother and amused his guardian.

At the little ducal town of Pumpernickel our party settled down for a protracted stay. There
each one of them found something especially pleasing or interesting them, and there it was
that they encountered an acquaintance of other days,--no other than Mrs. Rawdon Crawley; and
because of Becky's experiences since she had quitted her husband, her child, and the little
house in Curzon Street, London, of which he knew the details, Major Dobbin was anything but
pleased at the meeting.

But Becky told Amelia a pathetic little tale of misery, neglect, and estrangement from those
she loved, and tenderhearted Amelia, who quivered with indignation at the recital, at once
invited Becky to join their party. To this Major Dobbin made positive objections, but Amelia
remained firm in her resolve to shelter the friend of her school-days, the mother who had been
cruelly taken away from her boy by a misjudging sister-in-law. This decision brought about
a crisis in Amelia's affairs: Major Dobbin, who had been so devotedly attached to Amelia for
years, also remained firm, and insisted not only that Amelia have no more to do with Mrs. Crawley,
but that if she did, he would leave the party. Amelia was firm and loyal, and honest Dobbin
made preparations for his departure.

When the coach that was to carry old Dob away drew up before the door, Georgie gave an exclamation
of surprise.

"Hello!" said he, "there's Dob's trap! There's Francis coming out with the portmanteau, and
the postilion. Look at his boots and yellow jacket--why--they are putting the horses to Dob's
carriage. Is he going anywhere?"

"Yes," said Amelia, "he is going on a journey."

"Going on a journey! And when is he coming back?"

"He is--not coming back," answered Amelia.

"Not coming back!" cried out Georgie, jumping up.

"Stay here," roared out Jos.

"Stay, Georgie," said his mother, with a very sad face.

The boy stopped, kicked about the room, jumped up and down from the window seat, and finally,
when the Major's luggage had been carried out, gave way to his feelings again. "By Jove, I
will go!" screamed out George, and rushed downstairs and flung across the street in a minute.

The yellow postilion was cracking his whip gently. William had got into the carriage, George
bounded in after him, and flung his arms around the Major's neck, asking him multiplied questions.
William kissed Georgie, spoke gently and sadly to him, and the boy got out, doubling his fists
into his eyes. The yellow postilion cracked his whip again, up sprang Francis to the box, and
away Dobbin was carried, never looking up as he passed under Amelia's window; and Georgie,
left alone in the street, burst out crying in the face of all the crowd and continued his lamentations
far into the night, when Amelia's maid, who heard him howling, brought him some preserved apricots
to console him.

Thus honest Dobbin passed out of the life of Amelia and her boy, but not forever. Gentle Amelia
was soon disillusioned in regard to the old schoolmate whom she had taken under her care, and
found that in all the world there was no one who meant so much to her as faithful Dobbin. One
morning she wrote and despatched a note, the inscription of which no one saw; but on account
of which she looked very much flushed and agitated when Georgie met her coming from the Post;
and she kissed him and hung over him a great deal that night. Two mornings later George, walking
on the dyke with his mother, saw by the aid of his telescope an English steamer near the pier.
George took the glass again and watched the vessel.

"How she does pitch! There goes a wave slap over her bows. There's a man lying down, and a--chap--in
a--cloak with a--Hurrah! It's Dob, by jingo!" He clapped to the telescope and flung his arms
round his mother, then ran swiftly off; and Amelia was left to make her peace alone with the
faithful Major, who had returned at her request.

Some days later Becky Sharp felt it wise to leave for Bruges, and in the little church at Ostend
there was a wedding, at which the only witnesses were Georgie and his Uncle Jos. Amelia Osborne
had decided to accept the Major's protection for life, to the never-ending satisfaction of
George, to whom the Major had always been comrade and father.

Immediately after his marriage Colonel Dobbin quitted the service and rented a pretty little
country place in Hampshire, not far from Queen's Crawley, where Sir Pitt and his family constantly
resided now, and where Rawdon Crawley was regarded as their son.

Lady Jane and Mrs. Dobbin became great friends, and there was a perpetual crossing of pony
chaises between the two places. Lady Jane was godmother to Mrs. Dobbin's little girl, who bore
her name, and the two lads, George Osborne and Rawdon Crawley, who had met so many years before
as children when little Rawdon invited George to take a ride on his pony, and whose lives had
been filled with such different experiences since that time, now became close friends. They
were both entered at the same college at Cambridge, hunted and shot together in the vacations,
confided in each other; and when we last see them, fast becoming young men, they are deep in
a quarrel about Lady Jane's daughter, with whom they were both, of course, in love.

No further proof of approaching age is needed than a quarrel over a young lady, and the lads,
George and Rawdon, now give place forever to men. Though the circumstances of their lives had
been unlike, though George had had all the love that a devoted mother could give, and all the
luxury which money could supply: and Rawdon had been without a mother's devotion; without the
surroundings which had made George's life luxurious,--on the threshold of manhood we find them
on an equal footing, entering life's arena, strong of limb, glad of heart, eager for what manhood
was to bring them.

CLIVE AND ETHEL NEWCOME

When one is about to write the biography of a certain person, it seems but fair to give as
its background such facts concerning the hero's antecedents as place the details of his life
in their proper setting. And so, having the honour to be the juvenile biographer of Mr. Clive
Newcome, I deem it wise to preface the story of his life with a brief account of events and
persons antecedent to his birth.

Thomas Newcome, Clive's grandfather, had been a weaver in his native village, and brought the
very best character for honesty, thrift, and ingenuity with him to London, where he was taken
into the house of Hobson Brothers, cloth-manufacturers; afterwards Hobson & Newcome. When Thomas
Newcome had been some time in London, he quitted the house of Hobson, to begin business for
himself. And no sooner did his business prosper than he married a pretty girl from his native
village. What seemed an imprudent match, as his wife had no worldly goods to bring him, turned
out a very lucky one for Newcome. The whole countryside was pleased to think of the marriage
of the prosperous London tradesman with the penniless girl whom he had loved in the days of
his own poverty; the great country clothiers, who knew his prudence and honesty, gave him much
of their business, and Susan Newcome would have been the wife of a rich man had she not died
a year after her marriage, at the birth of her son, Thomas.

Newcome had a nurse for the child, and a cottage at Clapham, hard by Mr. Hobson's house, and
being held in good esteem by his former employers, was sometimes invited by them to tea. When
his wife died, Miss Hobson, who since her father's death had become a partner in the firm,
met Mr. Newcome with his little boy as she was coming out of meeting one Sunday, and the child
looked so pretty, and Mr. Newcome so personable, that Miss Hobson invited him and little Tommy
into the grounds; let the child frisk about in the hay on the lawn, and at the end of the visit
gave him a large piece of pound-cake, a quantity of the finest hot-house grapes, and a tract
in one syllable. Tommy was ill the next day; but on the next Sunday his father was at meeting,
and not very long after that Miss Hobson became Mrs. Newcome.

After his father's second marriage, Tommy and Sarah, his nurse, who was also a cousin of Mr.
Newcome's first wife, were transported from the cottage, where they had lived in great comfort,
to the palace hard by, surrounded by lawns and gardens, graperies, aviaries, luxuries of all
kinds. This paradise was separated from the outer world by a, thick hedge of tall trees and
an ivy-covered porter's gate, through which they who travelled to London on the top of the
Clapham coach could only get a glimpse of the bliss within. It was a serious paradise. As you
entered at the gate, gravity fell on you; and decorum wrapped you in a garment of starch. The
butcher boy who galloped his horse and cart madly about the adjoining lanes, on passing that
lodge fell into an undertaker's pace, and delivered his joints and sweetbreads silently at
the servant's entrance. The rooks in the elms cawed sermons at morning and evening; the peacocks
walked demurely on the terraces; the guinea fowls looked more Quaker-like than those birds
usually do. The lodge-keeper was serious, and a clerk at the neighbouring chapel. The pastor,
who entered at that gate and greeted his comely wife and children, fed the little lambkins
with tracts. The head gardener was a Scotch Calvinist, after the strictest order. On a Sunday
the household marched away to sit under his or her favourite minister, the only man who went
to church being Thomas Newcome, with Tommy, his little son. Tommy was taught hymns suited to
his tender age, pointing out the inevitable fate of wicked children and giving him a description
of the punishment of little sinners, which poems he repeated to his step-mother after dinner,
before a great shining mahogany table, covered with grapes, pineapples, plum cake, port wine,
and madeira, and surrounded by stout men in black, with baggy white neckcloths, who took the
little man between their knees and questioned him as to his right understanding of the place
whither naughty boys were bound. They patted his head if he said well, or rebuked him if he
was bold, as he often was.

Then came the birth of Mrs. Newcome's twin boys, Hobson and Bryan, and now there was no reason
why young Newcome, their step-brother, should not go to school, and to Grey Friars Thomas Newcome
was accordingly sent, exchanging--O ye gods! with what delight--the splendour of Clapham for
the rough, plentiful fare of the new place. The pleasures of school-life were such to him that
he did not care to go home for a holiday; for by playing tricks and breaking windows, by taking
the gardener's peaches and the housekeeper's jam, by upsetting his two little brothers in a
go-cart (of which injury the Baronet's nose bore marks to his dying day), by going to sleep
during the sermons, and treating reverend gentlemen with levity, he drew down on himself the
merited anger of his step-mother; and many punishments. To please Mrs. Newcome, his father
whipped Tommy for upsetting his little brothers in the go-cart; but, upon being pressed to
repeat the whipping for some other prank, Mr. Newcome refused, saying that the boy got flogging
enough at school, with which opinion Master Tommy fully agreed. His step-mother, however, determined
to make the young culprit smart for his offences, and one day, when Mr. Newcome was absent,
and Tommy refractory as usual, summoned the butler and footman to flog the young criminal.
But he dashed so furiously against the butler's shins as to cause that menial to limp and suffer
for many days after; and, seizing the decanter, he threatened to discharge it at Mrs. Newcome's
head before he would submit to the punishment she desired administered. When Mr. Newcome returned,
he was indignant at his wife's treatment of Tommy, and said so, to her great displeasure. This
affair, indeed, almost caused a break in their relations, and friends and clergy were obliged
to interfere to allay the domestic quarrel. At length Mrs. Newcome, who was not unkind, and
could be brought to own that she was sometimes in fault, was induced to submit to the decrees
of her husband, whom she had vowed to love and honour. When Tommy fell ill of scarlet fever
she nursed him through his illness, and uttered no reproach to her husband when the twins took
the disease. And even though Tommy in his delirium vowed that he would put on his clothes and
run away to his old nurse Sarah, Mrs. Newcome's kindness to him never faltered. What the boy
threatened in his delirium, a year later he actually achieved. He ran away from home, and appeared
one morning, gaunt and hungry, at Sarah's cottage two hundred miles away from Clapham. She
housed the poor prodigal with many tears and kisses, and put him to bed and to sleep; from
which slumber he was aroused by the appearance of his father, whose instinct, backed by Mrs.
Newcome's intelligence, had made him at once aware whither the young runaway had fled. Seeing
a horsewhip in his parent's hand, Tommy, scared out of a sweet sleep and a delightful dream
of cricket, knew his fate; and getting out of bed, received his punishment without a word.
Very likely the father suffered more than the child; for, when the punishment was over, the
little man yet quivering with the pain, held out his little bleeding hand, and said, "I can--I
can take it from you, sir," saying which his face flushed, and his eyes filled, whereupon the
father burst into a passion of tears, and embraced the boy, and kissed him, besought him to
be rebellious no more, flung the whip away from him, and swore, come what would, he would never
strike him again. The quarrel was the means of a great and happy reconciliation. But the truce
was only a temporary one. War very soon broke out again between the impetuous lad and his rigid,
domineering step-mother. It was not that he was very bad, nor she so very stern, but the two
could not agree. The boy sulked and was miserable at home, and, after a number of more serious
escapades than he had before indulged in, he was sent to a tutor for military instruction,
where he was prepared for the army and received a fairly good professional education. He cultivated
mathematics and fortification, and made rapid progress in his study of the French language.
But again did our poor Tommy get into trouble, and serious trouble indeed this time, for it
involved his French master's pretty young daughter as well as himself. Frantic with wrath and
despair at the unfortunate climax of events, young Newcome embarked for India, and quitted
the parents whom he was never more to see. His name was no more mentioned at Clapham, but he
wrote constantly to his father, who sent Tom liberal private remittances to India, and was
in turn made acquainted with the fact of his son's marriage, and later received news of the
birth of his grandson, Clive.

Old Thomas Newcome would have liked to leave all his private fortune to his son Thomas, for
the twins were only too well provided for, but he dared not, for fear of his wife, and he died,
and poor Tom was only secretly forgiven.

So much for the history of Clive Newcome's father and grandfather. Having related it in full
detail, we can now proceed to the narrative of Clive's life, he being the hero of this tale.

From the day of his birth until he was some seven years old, Clive's English relatives knew
nothing about him. Then, Colonel Newcome's wife having died, and having kept the boy with him
as long as the climate would allow, Thomas Newcome, now Lieutenant-Colonel, decided that it
was wise to send Clive to England, to entrust him to the boy's maternal aunt, Miss Honeyman,
who was living at Brighton, that Clive might have the superior advantages of school days in
England.

Let us glance at a few extracts from letters received by Colonel Newcome after his boy had
reached England. The aunt to whose care he was entrusted wrote as follows:

       *       *       *       *       *

With the most heartfelt joy, my dear Major, I take up my pen to announce to you the happy arrival
of the Ramchunder and the dearest and handsomest little boy who, I am sure, ever came from
India. Little Clive is in perfect health. He speaks English wonderfully well. He cried when
he parted from Mr. Sneid, the supercargo, who most kindly brought him from Southhampton in
a postchaise, but these tears in childhood are of very brief duration!...

You may be sure that the most liberal sum which you have placed to my credit with the Messrs.
Hobson & Co. shall be faithfully expended on my dear little charge. Of course, unless Mrs.
Newcome,--who can scarcely be called his grandmamma, I suppose,--writes to invite dear Clive
to Clapham, I shall not think of sending him there. My brother, who thanks you for your continuous
bounty, will write next month, and report progress as to his dear pupil. Clive will add a postscript
of his own, and I am, my dear Major,

Your grateful and affectionate,

MARTHA HONEYMAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

In a round hand and on lines ruled with pencil:

       *       *       *       *       *

Dearest Papa I am very well I hope you are Very Well. Mr. Sneed brought me in a postchaise
I like Mr. Sneed very much. I like Aunt Martha I like Hannah. There are no ships here I am
your affectionate son CLIVE NEWCOME.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was also a note from Colonel Newcome's stepbrother, Bryan, as follows:

       *       *       *       *       *

My Dear Thomas: Mr. Sneid, supercargo of the Ramchunder, East Indiaman, handed over to us yesterday
your letter, and, to-day, I have purchased three thousand three hundred and twenty-three pounds
6 and 8, three per cent Consols, in our joint names (H. and B. Newcome), held for your little
boy. Mr. S. gives a favourable account of the little man, and left him in perfect health two
days since, at the house of his aunt, Miss Honeyman. We have placed £200 to that lady's credit,
at your desire. I dare say my mother will ask your little boy to the Hermitage; and when we
have a house of our own I am sure Ann and I shall be very happy to see him.

Yours affectionately,

B. NEWCOME.

       *       *       *       *       *

And another from Miss Honeyman's brother, containing the following:

       *       *       *       *       *

MAJOR NEWCOME:

My Dear Colonel: ... Clive is everything that a father's and uncle's, a pastor's, a teacher's,
affections could desire. He is not a premature genius; he is not, I frankly own, more advanced
in his classical and mathematical studies than some children even younger than himself; but
he has acquired the rudiments of health; he has laid in a store of honesty and good-humour
which are not less likely to advance him in life than mere science and language ... etc., etc.,

Your affectionate brother-in-law,

CHARLES HONEYMAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

Another letter from Miss Honeyman herself said:

       *       *       *       *       *

My Dear Colonel: ... As my dearest little Clive was too small for a great school, I thought
he could not do better than stay with his old aunt and have his uncle Charles for a tutor,
who is one of the finest scholars in the world. Of late he has been too weak to take a curacy,
so I thought he could not do better than become Clive's tutor, and agreed to pay him out of
your handsome donation of £250 for Clive, a sum of one hundred pounds per year. But I find
that Charles is too kind to be a schoolmaster, and Master Clive laughs at him. It was only
the other day after his return from his grandmamma's that I found a picture of Mrs. Newcome
and Charles, too, and of both their spectacles, quite like. He has done me and Hannah, too.
Mr. Speck, the artist, says he is a wonder at drawing.

Our little Clive has been to London on a visit to his uncles and to Clapham, to pay his duty
to his step-grandmother, the wealthy Mrs. Newcome. She was very gracious to him, and presented
him with a five pound note, a copy of Kirk White's poems and a work called Little Henry and
his Bearer, relating to India, and the excellent catechism of our Church. Clive is full of
humour, and I enclose you a rude scrap representing the Bishopess of Clapham, as Mrs. Newcome
is called.

Instead then of allowing Clive to be with Charles in London next month I shall send him to
Doctor Timpany's school, Marine Parade, of which I hear the best account; but I hope you will
think of soon sending him to a great school. My father always said it was the best place for
boys, and I have a brother to whom my poor mother spared the rod, and who I fear has turned
out but a spoiled child.

I am, dear Colonel, your most faithful servant,

MARTHA HONEYMAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

Besides the news gleaned from these letters we gather the main facts concerning little Clive's
departure from the Colonel's side. He had kept the child with him until he felt sure that the
change would be of advantage to the pretty boy, then had parted from him with bitter pangs
of heart, and thought constantly of him with longing and affection. With the boy, it was different.
Half an hour after his father had left him and in grief and loneliness was rowing back to shore,
Clive was at play with a dozen other children on the sunny deck of the ship. When two bells
rang for their dinner, they were all hurrying to the table, busy over their meal, and forgetful
of all but present happiness.

But with that fidelity which was an instinct of his nature, Colonel Newcome thought ever of
his absent child and longed after him. He never forsook the native servants who had had charge
of Clive, but endowed them with money sufficient to make all their future lives comfortable.
No friends went to Europe, nor ship departed, but Newcome sent presents to the boy and costly
tokens of his love and thanks to all who were kind to his son. His aim was to save money for
the youngster, but he was of a nature so generous that he spent five rupees where another would
save them. However, he managed to lay by considerable out of his liberal allowances, and to
find himself and Clive growing richer every year.

"When Clive has had five or six years at school"--that was his scheme--"he will be a fine scholar,
and have at least as much classical learning as a gentleman in the world need possess. Then
I will go to England, and we will pass three or four years together, in which he will learn
to be intimate with me, and, I hope, to like me. I shall be his pupil for Latin and Greek,
and try and make up for lost time. I know there is nothing like a knowledge of the classics
to give a man good breeding. I shall be able to help him with my knowledge of the world, and
to keep him out of the way of sharpers and a pack of rogues who commonly infest young men.
And we will travel together, first through England, Scotland, and Ireland, for every man should
know his own country, and then we will make the grand tour. Then by the time he is eighteen
he will be able to choose his profession. He can go into the army, or, if he prefers, the church,
or the law--they are open to him; and when he goes to the university, by which time I shall
be, in all probability, a major-general, I can come back to India for a few years, and return
by the time he has a wife and a home for his old father; or, if I die, I shall have done the
best for him, and my boy will be left with the best education, a tolerable small fortune, and
the blessing of his old father."

Such were the plans of the kind schemer. How fondly he dwelt on them, how affectionately he
wrote of them to his boy! How he read books of travels and looked over the maps of Europe!
and said, "Rome, sir, glorious Rome; it won't be very long, major, before my boy and I see
the Colosseum, and kiss the Pope's toe. We shall go up the Rhine to Switzerland, and over the
Simplon, the work of the great Napoleon. By jove, sir, think of the Turks before Vienna, and
Sobieski clearing eighty thousand of 'em off the face of the earth! How my boy will rejoice
in the picture galleries there, and in Prince Eugene's prints! The boy's talent for drawing
is wonderful, sir, wonderful. He sent me a picture of our old school. The very actual thing,
sir; the cloisters, the school, the head gown boy going in with the rods, and the doctor himself.
It would make you die of laughing!"

He regaled the ladies of the regiment with dive's letters, and those of Miss Honeyman, which
contained an account of the boy. He even bored some of his hearers with this prattle; and sporting
young men would give or take odds that the Colonel would mention Clive's name, once before
five minutes, three times in ten minutes, twenty-five times in the course of dinner, and so
on. But they who laughed at the Colonel laughed very kindly; and everybody who knew him, loved
him; everybody that is, who loved modesty, generosity and honour.

As to Clive himself, by this time he was thoroughly enjoying his new life in England. After
remaining for a time at Doctor Timpany's school, where he was first placed by his aunt, Miss
Honeyman, he was speedily removed to that classical institution in which Colonel Newcome had
been a student in earlier days. My acquaintance with young Clive was at this school, Grey Friars,
where our acquaintance was brief and casual. He had the advantage of being six years my junior,
and such a difference of age between lads at a public school puts intimacy out of the question,
even though we knew each other at home, as our school phrase was, and our families were somewhat
acquainted. When Newcome's uncle, the Reverend Charles Honeyman, brought Newcome to the Grey
Friars School, he recommended him to my superintendence and protection, and told me that his
young nephew's father, Colonel Thomas Newcome, C.B., was a most gallant and distinguished officer
in the Bengal establishment of the honourable East India Company; and that his uncles, the
Colonel's half-brothers, were the eminent bankers, heads of the firm of Hobson Brothers & Newcome,
Hobson Newcome, Esquire, Brianstone Square, and Marblehead, Sussex, and Sir Brian Newcome,
of Newcome, and Park Lane, "whom to name," says Mr. Honeyman, with the fluent eloquence with
which he decorated the commonest circumstances of life, "is to designate two of the merchant
princes of the wealthiest city the world has ever known; and one, if not two, of the leaders
of that aristocracy which rallies round the throne of the most elegant and refined of European
sovereigns."

I promised Mr. Honeyman to do what I could for the boy; and he proceeded to take leave of his
little nephew in my presence in terms equally eloquent, pulling out a long and very slender
green purse, from which he extracted the sum of two and sixpence, which he presented to the
child, who received the money with rather a queer twinkle in his blue eyes.

After that day's school I met my little protege in the neighbourhood of the pastry cook's,
regaling himself with raspberry tarts. "You must not spend all the money, sir, which your uncle
gave you," said I, "in tarts and ginger-beer."

The urchin rubbed the raspberry jam off his mouth, and said, "It don't matter, sir, for I've
got lots more."

"How much?" says the Grand Inquisitor: for the formula of interrogation used to be, when a
new boy came to the school, "What's your name? Who's your father? and how much money have you got?"

The little fellow pulled such a handful of sovereigns out of his pocket as might have made
the tallest scholar feel a pang of envy. "Uncle Hobson," says he, "gave me two; Aunt Hobson
gave me one--no, Aunt Hobson gave me thirty shillings; Uncle Newcome gave me three pound; and
Aunt Ann gave me one pound five; and Aunt Honeyman sent me ten shillings in a letter. And Ethel
wanted to give me a pound, only I wouldn't have it, you know; because Ethel's younger than
me, and I have plenty."

"And who is Ethel?" I ask, smiling at the artless youth's confessions.

"Ethel is my cousin," replied little Newcome; "Aunt Ann's daughter. There's Ethel and Alice,
and Aunt Ann wanted the baby to be called Boadicea, only uncle wouldn't; and there's Barnes
and Egbert and little Alfred, only he don't count; he's quite a baby, you know. Egbert and
me was at school at Timpany's; he's going to Eton next half. He's older than me, but I can
lick him."

"And how old is Egbert?" asks the smiling senior.

