TEACHING TRUTH SERIES

ALMOST A WOMAN

By Mary Wood-Allen, M. D.

Author of "Teaching Truth"; "Almost a Man"; "Child-Confidence Rewarded;" "Caring for the Baby";
"The Man Wonderful"; "Ideal Married Life;"

  PUBLISHED BY
  THE ARTHUR H. CRIST CO.
  Cooperstown, N. Y.
  1911

  Copyrighted by
  CRIST, SCOTT & PARSHALL
  1907

  All Rights Reserved.
  Entered at Stationer's Hall.

CONTENTS.

  Prelude.                                                           5
  Chapter I.                                                         9
  Chapter II.                                                       29
  Chapter III.                                                      38
  Chapter IV.                                                       69

PRELUDE.

Mr. Wayne, glancing out of the window, saw some one passing down the front steps. Suddenly
a look of recognition came into his face, and he turned to his wife with the exclamation, "I
declare, Mary, our daughter Helen is almost a woman, isn't she?"

"Yes," replied Mrs. Wayne, coming to his side and watching the slender figure going down the
street. Her face bore a look of motherly pride, but she sighed, as she said,

"Yes, Time and Death are equally inexorable; they both take our babies from us."

"But not after the same fashion," replied Mr. Wayne. "Death takes them from our sight, where
we cannot witness their growth and development, cannot know into what beauty they have blossomed."

"Still," said Mrs. Wayne, "we do not recognize the changes Time makes until they are accomplished.
So gradually does the blossom unfold that there is no day to which we can point as the day
on which the bud became the full blown flower. On what day did Helen cease to be a baby and
become a child? On what day will she cease to be a child and become a woman?"

"We will know when the actual physical change takes place, but even after that I trust there
will remain to us something of our little girl. I do not like to think of her approaching the
sentimental age. How old is she?"

"Thirteen."

"Well, we need have no present fear of a sudden development of sentimentality."

"Fortunately, no," replied Mrs. Wayne, "though many a mother of girls no older than Helen is
troubled with the question of beaux. Helen, however, has had the good fortune to have for friends
boys who seemed to enjoy her comradeship, and I have been very careful not to suggest that
their relation could possibly border on the sentimental. So far, she has been perfectly obedient
and ever ready to adopt my ideas on all subjects. We have been such close friends that I believe
I am acquainted with her inmost thoughts, and if she had felt any romantic emotions I believe
she would have confessed them to me."

"Happy mother!" said Mr. Wayne approvingly, "I wish all girls found in their mothers their
closest friends and confidants. By the way, you have always talked freely to her about life's
mysteries; have you explained her approaching womanhood to her?"

"Not yet," was the reply. "Perhaps I have been a little unwilling to believe that she is really
nearing that crisis. I cannot bear to lose my little girl," and Mrs. Wayne looked into her
husband's face, smiling through her tears.

"Yes, I can understand that," he said, "and yet we believe that only through the normal development
of her physical nature can she be the 'woman perfected.' I beg of you not to postpone your
instruction too long. I am more and more convinced that right knowledge not only safeguards
purity, but really produces true modesty. To give a young person a reverent knowledge of self
is to insure that delicacy of thought which preserves the bloom of modesty. If the girls who
are engaged in street flirtations could only be taught the lesson of true womanhood, I am sure
they would become quiet and lady-like in conduct. I would rather lose my little girl altogether
than have her fall into this error. You have no hesitancy about speaking to her?"

"Not in the least. But I have thought that perhaps she would indicate by some question that
her mind was becoming ready for the disclosure. It always seems to me that to force information
before the mind is ready to receive it, is to jeopardize its reception."

"Don't wait, Mary. You risk too much by allowing some one else the opportunity to give her
the knowledge with the taint of evil suggestion."

"You are right,--and I could not bear that anyone else should explain to her all these mysteries.
I have always been her teacher and I will not relinquish that privilege. I will seize the very
first that will allow us uninterrupted time.

"But do you not think that you as a father should have some part in this blessed work of guiding
our daughter? I believe that it will be most helpful to her to get the man's view on the problems
of her life. You know, one never gets a true perspective of material objects with only one
eye; and I believe this is equally true of life. I can give her the woman's view, but she needs
to know also how men look upon life. She will be better able to judge of the right or wrong
of conduct if she knows that my view is supported by your own."

"You are right, as usual," replied Mr. Wayne smiling, "and you may rest assured that I will
always be glad to supplement your counsel by my own."

Almost a Woman

CHAPTER I.

"Mother." The clear girlish voice rang through the house with persistent intensity but awakened
no responsive call. Mr. Wayne, coming up the steps, heard the repeated summons for "Mother"
and sent out his answering cry, "Father's here." Quick, light steps answered his call and an
urgent young voice demanded, "Where's mother?"

"Mother has been called away for tonight, so you'll have to put up with father."

"O, dear!" sighed the girl despondently.

"Is father such a poor substitute, then?" inquired Mr. Wayne in an aggrieved tone.

"O, no," responded Helen, quickly. "You're usually as good as mother; but there were some special
things I wanted to ask her about this evening. I suppose I can wait," she added, dolorously.

"Try me and see if I won't answer tolerably well. What are these weighty problems?" drawing
his daughter to his knee as he spoke.

"That's it," pouted Helen. "You always make fun,--mother doesn't."

"Pardon me, daughter, I had no intention of making fun. I only wanted you to feel at home with
me. It was a clumsy attempt, I'll admit, but really and truly I would like to be in your confidence--to
feel that you trust me, too. I can't fill mother's place, I know, but I can do what mother
can't, I can give you the man's view of things, and that is sometimes of great value for a
girl to know."

"Yes," said Helen, snuggling down in her father's lap, for they were great friends and she
felt his sympathy. "I often wish we could know how things look to other people. I know boys
don't look at matters as girls do, but we can't always tell just what they do think."

"That is true," replied Mr. Wayne, gravely. "I often think that if girls knew just what boys
say among themselves it would make them more careful of their conduct.

"For instance, not long ago I was on a steamer where there was dancing. I went into the smoking
room, and there I heard the comments of the young men. I am sure the girls had no idea how
their dress, figures, freedom and flirtatiousness were criticised and laughed at by these young
men, who seemed to them, doubtless, so very nice and polite. Of course, these girls were mostly
strangers to the young men and were getting acquainted without introductions, probably thinking
it fine fun."

"Yes, father. I've heard some of the real nice girls talk about getting acquainted in that
way, and they seem to think it all right. Someway, it never seemed quite nice to me."

"I hope not, my daughter. I should be sorry to have you form acquaintances in that way. You
never can tell what a man's character is by his clothes or manners. Indeed, you may think you
know a man pretty well, and yet be mistaken. I suppose girls who are familiar with young men
and allow them liberties imagine that they are trustworthy. I sat in front of two young men
on a train not long ago. They appeared well and really were nice, as boys go, but they had
the usual boy's idea as to honor. They were talking freely of the girls they knew, discussing
their merits and charms, saying that this one was soft and 'huggable,' that another was sweet
to kiss--"

"O, father!" exclaimed Helen, in a fury of surprise and anger. "They didn't talk that way so
that you could hear! And call the girls by name, too?"

"Yes, they did, dear. Then after they had discussed several, who all seemed to allow great
freedom, they mentioned another name, and their whole manner changed. 'Ah,' said one, 'there's
no nonsense about her. It's 'hands off' there every time and'--he went on, with great emphasis,
'that's the kind of a girl I mean to marry. A man doesn't want to feel that his wife's been
slobbered over by all the young men of her acquaintance.'"

Helen hid her face on her father's shoulder. "How perfectly dreadful!" she said. "They were
not gentlemen."

"I'll admit that,--and yet the conduct of the girls in permitting such freedom was really an
excuse for their speaking so discourteously of them. The girls had not maintained their own
self-respect, and therefore had not secured the respect of the young men. The girl who respected
herself compelled respect from them, and that is the idea I wish to impress on your mind. Never
expect any one to respect you more than you respect yourself, nor to shield your honor if you
have placed yourself in their power."

"But, father," said Helen hesitatingly, "most of the girls and boys think it no harm to kiss
each other good night, and the girls say the boys would be offended if a girl refused."

"They are mistaken. Of course, the boys like to have the girls think so; but they don't talk
that way among themselves, you may be sure."

"But, you see, father," urged Helen, hesitatingly, "they say they are engaged, and that makes
it all right."

"How long do they stay engaged?" asked Mr. Wayne. "Do they really consider it a true engagement,
to end ultimately in marriage, or is it merely an excuse for freedom of association?"

"O, they're all the time breaking their engagements. I don't believe they expect them to last
very long. Now, there's Dora Ills. She's only sixteen and she says she's been engaged four
times, and when she breaks the engagement she doesn't give back the ring. She's making a collection
of engagement rings, she says."

"It is very evident that she cannot have the highest respect for herself. I knew of a girl
whose sister had been engaged several times and who said to her, 'Why, Lida, you've never been
engaged yet, have you?' And Lida replied, 'No, and I have made up my mind that I'll not be
one of your pawed-over girls.'

"Her expression was not an elegant one, but it showed that she respected herself, and of course,
she will be more truly respected by the young men if she does not permit them to approach too
closely. A girl is very much mistaken if she fancies that a young man thinks more of her if
she lets him be familiar. On the other hand, it is always true that he thinks more of her if
she makes him feel that she is not to be carelessly approached. As one boy said to me, 'Girls
ought to know that boys always want most that which is hardest to get.'"

"But, father, if it's so difficult for boys and girls to be together and act as they should,
wouldn't it be best to keep them entirely apart until they are old enough to marry?"

"That is what they think in the old world, and girls are kept shut up in schools and convents
until they are grown; then their parents select a husband for them, and after they are married
they are allowed to go into society. I am afraid our girls wouldn't like that,--they'd want
to select their own husbands."

"They could do that after they got out of school."

"My observation is that the girl who has been shut up away from young men, is the very one
who doesn't know how to act when she comes out of school. She has very romantic ideas, and
is quite apt to be misled by a glittering exterior. She is less able to judge wisely or to
guide her own conduct judiciously than the girl who, having been educated with boys, has less
romantic ideas concerning them. No, I believe in co-education and in the common social life
for both sexes; but with it I should ask that all young people should be taught to respect
themselves and each other, and to understand their responsibility to future generations."

"And what is that responsibility? What have we young people to do with future generations?"

"Just exactly what we older people once had. We didn't think of it in our youth, but we can
see now that even then we were creating our own characters and at the same time the characters
of our future children. Now, I can see in you many of my own youthful characteristics. I can
understand why you find it hard to do things that I'd like you to do, and easy to do some I'd
rather you wouldn't do. And if, in the years to come, you have a daughter, she will be apt
to be largely what you are now. All the efforts you make now to overcome your own faults are
in reality helping to overcome those faults for her also. Suppose the young people knew and
thought of these things; don't you think they would judge more wisely of what they ought to do?"

"Why, yes, I know what I'd want my daughter to do, it seems to me, even better than I could
tell what I ought to do myself."

"Wouldn't that be a good way to decide your own conduct--to do only those things which you'd
be perfectly willing your daughter should do?"

"But, father, tell me why it's so much more important for girls to be particular about what
they do than for boys."

"It's not more important."

"Well, people seem to think it is. The other day Johnnie Webster was going to a show and his
little sister Carrie wanted to go, too, and he told her it was no place for girls, and she
said, 'Then it is no place for boys'; and he said, 'But boys don't have to be as good as girls.'
And his father and mother both heard it and never said a word. They only laughed."

"It is unfortunately quite a common idea that boys and men do not have to be as good as girls
and women; but it is not God's idea. He doesn't have two standards of morals, and I think the
time is coming when men will be glad to live up to the highest level of purity."

"Don't you think it seems worse for girls to swear or drink or gamble than for boys?"

"It does seem worse, because we have had such high ideals for women; but to God it must seem
no worse, because he judges of us as souls, not as men and women, and He has laid down only
one rule of conduct for all souls."

"I'd like to know how the idea ever grew that it was not so bad for men to do wrong as for women."

"Perhaps we cannot now see all the reasons for this state of things, but we can see at least
one reason. Many, many years ago men bought their wives, or took them by force from others,
so they felt that they owned their wives. Of course, each man liked to feel that his wife was
above reproach, that she really did belong to him; therefore, he held any lack of fidelity
as a great sin against himself. But he did not think that he belonged to her. She had neither
bought nor captured him, so she had no power over him, except such as she could gain by her
fascinations.

"Naturally, he didn't care to be bound by the same rigid ideas to which he held her. He felt
himself free to do what fancy dictated. The general level of morals was low, so he followed
the pleasures of sense, and the wife could only submit, or try to be more fascinating to him
than any one else. But if he was great and influential or handsome, and was not bound by any
moral restraints, there would be other women desirous of gaining his attentions and the material
comforts he might be able to give, and he would quite willingly think himself free to follow
his fancy without censure. In this way has grown up the double moral standard, the pure woman
holding herself to the strictest morality, and men imagining themselves not so sternly held
to the narrow path of absolute purity.

"Women are not now slaves, bought as wives and valued for their personal charms alone. They
have intellectual power and moral force and social influence, and they can, if they will, create
the single moral standard,--that is, the one high ideal for both men and women."

"O, father, do you think girls have as much power as that? It always seems to me as if girls
might be of value when they are grown up, but that while we are girls we can't do much to make
the world better."

"That is the mistake girls generally make, when in fact the most important time of life is
youth. It is while you are girls that you are forming your own character, and at the same time
you are helping to form the character of the generations to come. You are of far more value
to the nation now, while you are young and can make of yourselves almost anything you please,
than you will be when you are old and your habits are fixed. If girls all lived nobly and exacted
noble conduct of all their associates, boys as well as girls, it would not take long to settle
all questions of reform. Young men will be what young women ask them to be, and that, you see,
makes girls of great importance. Do you remember what we were reading in Sesame and Lilies
the other day about woman's queenly power? Get the book and let us read it again." Her great
function is Praise.

Helen leaned her head on her father's shoulder in silence. Then she said, softly: "It makes
me almost afraid to become a woman."

Mr. Wayne kissed his daughter tenderly, saying: "It is worthy your highest ambition to be a
noble woman. I would be glad to see you such an one as is pictured in Lowell's poem of Irene.
Would you like to read it to me?"

Helen took the book from her father's hand and read.

IRENE.

    So circled lives she with Love's holy light,
    That from the shade of self she walketh free:
    The garden of her soul still keepeth she
    An Eden where the snake did never enter;
    She hath a natural, wise sincerity,
    A simple truthfulness, and these have lent her
    A dignity as moveless as the center:
    So that no influence of earth can stir
    Her steadfast courage, nor can take away
    The holy peacefulness, which, night and day,
    Unto her queenly soul doth minister.

    Most gentle is she; her large charity
    (An all unwitting, childlike gift to her)
    Not freer is to give than meek to bear;
    And, though herself not unacquaint with care,
    Hath in her heart wide room for all that be--
    Her heart that hath no secrets of its own,
    But open as an eglantine full blown.

    A graciousness in giving that doth make
    The small gift greatest, and a sense most meek
    Of worthiness, that doth not fear to take
    From others, but which always fears to speak
    Its thanks in utterance, for the giver's sake;
    The deep religion of a thankful heart,
    Which rests instinctively in heaven's clear law
    With a full peace, that never can depart
    From its own steadfastness;--a holy awe
    For holy things,--not those which men call holy,
    But such as are revealed to the eyes
    Of a true woman's soul bent down and lowly
    Before the face of daily mysteries:
    A love that blossoms soon, but ripens slowly
    To the full goldenness of fruitful prime,
    Enduring with a firmness that defies
    All shallow tricks of circumstance and time,
    By a sure insight knowing where to cling,
    And where it clingeth never withering:
    These are Irene's dowry, which no fate
    Can shake from their serene, deep-builded state.

    In-seeing sympathy is hers, which chasteneth
    No less than loveth, scorning to be bound
    With fear of blame, and yet which ever hasteneth
    To pour the balm of kind looks on the wound,
    If they be wounds which such sweet teaching makes,
    Giving itself a pang for others' sakes:
    No want of faith, that chills with sidelong eye,
    Hath she; no jealousy, no Levite pride
    That passeth by upon the other side:
    For in her soul there never dwelt a lie.
    Right from the hand of God her spirit came
    Unstained, and she hath ne'er forgotten whence
    It came, nor wandered far from thence,
    But labored to keep her still the same,
    Near to her place of birth, that she may not
    Soil her white raiment with an earthly spot.

    Yet sets she not her soul so steadily
    Above, that she forgets her ties to earth,
    But her whole thought would almost seem to be
    How to make glad one lowly human hearth;
    And to make earth next heaven; and her heart
    Herein doth show its most exceeding worth,
    That, bearing in our frailty her just part,
    She hath not shrunk from evils of this life,
    But hath gone calmly forth into the strife,
    And all its sin and sorrows hath withstood
    With lofty strength of patient womanhood:
    For this I love her great soul more than all,
    That, being bound, like us, with earthy thrall,
    For with a gentle courage she doth strive
    In thought and word and feeling so to live.
    She walks so bright and heaven-like therein,--

    Too wise, too meek, too womanly, to sin.
    Like a lone star through riven storm-clouds seen
    By sailors, tempest-tost upon the sea,
    Telling of rest and peaceful havens nigh,
    Unto my soul her star-like soul hath been,
    Her sight as full of hope and calm to me;
    For she unto herself hath builded high
    A home serene, wherein to lay her head,
    Earth's noblest thing, a Woman perfected.

"That is a beautiful picture of what a girl may be, and I'd be glad to see you making it your
model."

"Yes," said Helen, slowly. Then, with more enthusiasm, "You know, father, I've always wished
I were a boy. It seems so much grander to be a man than a woman. A man's life is so much freer,
and he can do so much greater things, you know. Of course, I shall try to be a good woman,
but I wish women could do big things, the way men can."

"What wondrous things can men do that women can't do?" asked Mr. Wayne with a smile.

"Oh," replied Helen, clasping her hands with enthusiasm, "just see what men do. They build
immense houses, and great bridges--Oh, they make the world, and women just sit in the house
and look on. I'd like to do something."

Mr. Wayne smoothed back the hair from the forehead of his enthusiastic daughter with a tender
smile, as he replied, "It does seem on the surface as if men did greater things than women,
but it is only seeming, my dear. It is just as grand a thing to be a woman as to be a man.
True, woman's work does not show on the surface so plainly, but she works with more enduring
material than does man in creating the world of things. We can see the great works of man's
hands and they impress us with a sense of his power; but it is mind that does the real work,
and women have minds, or are minds, you know."

"Yes, I know, but they must devote their minds to cooking and dishwashing."

"I have seen women doing other things. In the old world I saw women digging ditches, carrying
brick and mortar to the top of high buildings, ploughing in the fields; in fact, working just
like men. The great buildings of the World's Exposition erected in Vienna in 1873, were largely
the work of women's hands. You are not anxious to exchange dishwashing for such work, are you?"

"O, no, indeed; but it is man who plans such work and superintends its doing. A woman could
not have planned Brooklyn bridge, for example."

"It is quite true that a woman did not plan it, but did you know that it was completed under
a woman's supervision?"

"No, was it? How did that happen? Tell me all about it."

"It happened this way. Mr. Roebling, who was superintending its construction, was taken ill,
and his wife took his place and personally gave oversight to every part of the work until it
was done. You see, her being a woman did not prevent her doing the work. But if she had been
only a careless or an ignorant woman she could not have done it. It was mind, you see, and
cultured mind at that, which was the master power. If she had not been working with him in
making the plans, she could not have worked for him in carrying them out. Instead of lamenting
over your sex, you would better rejoice in the fact that you are a spirit, and realize that
your power in all spheres of activity will be measured by the cultivation of your mental and
spiritual powers."

"But, father, even if I do cultivate my mind, I shall probably never have an opportunity to
do such a grand thing as help to build a Brooklyn bridge."

"Probably not, but you can do a greater thing. You can fit yourself to work on finer material
than insensate stones. You can mould plastic minds. It is a far greater thing to wield spiritual
forces than to manipulate inorganic matter."

"But, all men do not merely make things. There are great statesmen, great soldiers, great writers."

"True, but you would not want to be a soldier, I am sure. To kill is not a glorious profession.
And to be a great statesman or writer is not merely a question of sex; it is a question of mind."

"Do you think women have as much ability as men? Aren't men really smarter than women?"

Mr. Wayne smiled at the girl's eagerness. "I do not compare men and women to decide their relative
ability," he answered. "I believe their minds differ, but that does not imply that one is superior
and the other inferior. Each is superior in its own place."

"But men's minds are so much stronger, father. Women never can be on the same level as men."

"Bring me two needles of different sizes from your work basket. Now, tell me, which is superior
to the other."

"That depends on what you want to do with them," replied Helen. "If you were going to sew on
shoe buttons, you'd use this big one. If you wanted to hem a cambric handkerchief, you'd take
this fine one."

"Just so. Each is superior in its special place, and both are necessary. This is just as it
seems to me in regard to the ability of men and women. They are both minds; one strong, robust,
enduring rough usage; the other fine, delicate, going where the first cannot go, and therefore
supplementing it, and increasing the range of work that can be accomplished. The fine needle
might complain that it could not do hard work, but do you think the complaint would be justifiable?"

"Why, no, I don't; but tell me what great things a woman can do--things that are worth while,
I mean; something besides keep house and take care of children. It seems to me that merely
to be a cook and nurse girl is not a very high calling."

"She might be a chemist," suggested Mr. Wayne.

"Oh, yes, a few women might; but I mean something that I could be, or other girls like me who
have no special talent."

