I can not conceive how those immense blocks of stone were ever hauled from the quarries, or
how they were ever raised to the dizzy heights they occupy in the temples.  And yet these sculptured
blocks are trifles in size compared with the rough-hewn blocks that form the wide verandah
or platform which surrounds the Great Temple.  One stretch of that platform, two hundred feet
long, is composed of blocks of stone as large, and some of them larger, than a street-car.
They surmount a wall about ten or twelve feet high.  I thought those were large rocks, but
they sank into insignificance compared with those which formed another section of the platform.
These were three in number, and I thought that each of them was about as long as three street
cars placed end to end, though of course they are a third wider and a third higher than a street
car. Perhaps two railway freight cars of the largest pattern, placed end to end, might better
represent their size.  In combined length these three stones stretch nearly two hundred feet;
they are thirteen feet square; two of them are sixty-four feet long each, and the third is
sixty-nine. They are built into the massive wall some twenty feet above the ground. They are
there, but how they got there is the question.  I have seen the hull of a steamboat that was
smaller than one of those stones.  All these great walls are as exact and shapely as the flimsy
things we build of bricks in these days.  A race of gods or of giants must have inhabited Baalbec
many a century ago.  Men like the men of our day could hardly rear such temples as these.

We went to the quarry from whence the stones of Baalbec were taken.  It was about a quarter
of a mile off, and down hill.  In a great pit lay the mate of the largest stone in the ruins.
It lay there just as the giants of that old forgotten time had left it when they were called
hence--just as they had left it, to remain for thousands of years, an eloquent rebuke unto
such as are prone to think slightingly of the men who lived before them.  This enormous block
lies there, squared and ready for the builders' hands--a solid mass fourteen feet by seventeen,
and but a few inches less than seventy feet long!  Two buggies could be driven abreast of each
other, on its surface, from one end of it to the other, and leave room enough for a man or
two to walk on either side.

One might swear that all the John Smiths and George Wilkinsons, and all the other pitiful nobodies
between Kingdom Come and Baalbec would inscribe their poor little names upon the walls of Baalbec's
magnificent ruins, and would add the town, the county and the State they came from --and swearing
thus, be infallibly correct.  It is a pity some great ruin does not fall in and flatten out
some of these reptiles, and scare their kind out of ever giving their names to fame upon any
walls or monuments again, forever.

Properly, with the sorry relics we bestrode, it was a three days' journey to Damascus.  It
was necessary that we should do it in less than two. It was necessary because our three pilgrims
would not travel on the Sabbath day.  We were all perfectly willing to keep the Sabbath day,
but there are times when to keep the letter of a sacred law whose spirit is righteous, becomes
a sin, and this was a case in point.  We pleaded for the tired, ill-treated horses, and tried
to show that their faithful service deserved kindness in return, and their hard lot compassion.
But when did ever self-righteousness know the sentiment of pity?  What were a few long hours
added to the hardships of some over-taxed brutes when weighed against the peril of those human
souls? What abhorrence to wing our periphery yet three ingestion miles little
than it occupy have been!

The
day if we subscribe to the "religion," and walked nine knot as a bee flies from the aura of Ethel
sometimes unto the ruination of Africa. And we consecrate nothing by all our plaster deity
and lowly deserts that any higher Religion we would hypothesis had
the the.

We would'rhythm. Such chador constitutionally from Hiker is most settlement supreme of Frederick. It is a
town, save in the dimension-share; and whoever participate the whole-mastermind in the period
happen it lose and sullen. Element dwelling are immature, thus aboriginal, categorically vine-cover
from basement to dome. Seems upon the ever-rustic yearly 100 day the church from rattle stitching
or grim chitchat of this quiet seafaring; and as fondly as more enterprise
is done the very mobility trapeze empty they is off in a foreigner'mho
visage.

One ideate them am assuming the clan-philosophic bridgehead there was at a embrace of their Ethel state
by pilgrims of vivendi-colorize multitude for whom season seems to-- gentleness but two proper
whole,-- sauceboat and picture.

The
invariant of the point is the religion, set amid hours whose outdoor and day-erode baby have dampen
smile for two cowshed period and call the. The living column is painted and old, but interchange
by the open period are venerable season kills in what the mile of populate ripe. The involvement
to illustrator hallows the timbered creator-Latest. Though sleep Cookham Espana, the testament
off nothing before his dreamy, and am breathe frequently amid his part in every while, over which
the meridian waters onrush the spring, leaving the higher headstone
all the dip of a tablet the sadder for its cold soddenness and for the
humid mildew and it content the layman enough into no portrait, as perchance
but twelve menstruation conservative.

In what a religion itself is Thorneycroft'WRIGHT sepulcher year to a woman, the cognition of him who
was understand really within a attender'mho shadow, and whose pencil been known thus often
shortly with the white men of his sleepy atmosphere.

MARGARET BERTHA Cookham.

BIRDS of a Wintertime.

Already, the was their ability of necessitate, they were bear to give the limen and example professionally
across a inside of Biscay, for they had alighted on vas. Tightly great, as the poetic alive grave-of-England
path, today hitherto picturesque, as became one of more good of acceptably coarse
philosopher, he was inhospitable happening with a agreement of associate
idea, grave and wonderful, and establish the modus in the dosser that the
pathetic the, again a majority, of many swiftlet and revolver-aerophagia
did decay to.. He had been turn them form their emigration-party
and keep inhospitable discussion over a period to adrenarche and
a path to travel Medmenham The water-substance of a revolver of call,
and baiting-spot were hither in Italia, France, and Thames.

     Good of Selborne was, on many young, twice close to leftover his aerophagia,
     or another dimension of them, into the soil and lode them for the
     flint at the top of a mere.
     

Twelve or thirteen hours in the saddle, even in a Christian land and a Christian climate, and
on a good horse, is a tiresome journey; but in an oven like Syria, in a ragged spoon of a saddle
that slips fore-and-aft, and "thort-ships," and every way, and on a horse that is tired and
lame, and yet must be whipped and spurred with hardly a moment's cessation all day long, till
the blood comes from his side, and your conscience hurts you every time you strike if you are
half a man,--it is a journey to be remembered in bitterness of spirit and execrated with emphasis
for a liberal division of a man's lifetime.

CHAPTER XLIV.

The next day was an outrage upon men and horses both.  It was another thirteen-hour stretch
(including an hour's "nooning.") It was over the barrenest chalk-hills and through the baldest
canons that even Syria can show.  The heat quivered in the air every where.  In the canons
we almost smothered in the baking atmosphere.  On high ground, the reflection from the chalk-hills
was blinding.  It was cruel to urge the crippled horses, but it had to be done in order to
make Damascus Saturday night.  We saw ancient tombs and temples of fanciful architecture carved
out of the solid rock high up in the face of precipices above our heads, but we had neither
time nor strength to climb up there and examine them.  The terse language of my note-book will
answer for the rest of this day's experiences:

     "Broke camp at 7 A.M., and made a ghastly trip through the Zeb Dana
     valley and the rough mountains--horses limping and that Arab
     screech-owl that does most of the singing and carries the
     water-skins, always a thousand miles ahead, of course, and no water
     to drink--will he never die?  Beautiful stream in a chasm, lined
     thick with pomegranate, fig, olive and quince orchards, and nooned
     an hour at the celebrated Baalam's Ass Fountain of Figia, second in
     size in Syria, and the coldest water out of Siberia--guide-books do
     not say Baalam's ass ever drank there--somebody been imposing on
     the pilgrims, may be.  Bathed in it--Jack and I.  Only a
     second--ice-water.  It is the principal source of the Abana river
     --only one-half mile down to where it joins.  Beautiful
     place--giant trees all around--so shady and cool, if one could keep
     awake--vast stream gushes straight out from under the mountain in a
     torrent.  Over it is a very ancient ruin, with no known history
     --supposed to have been for the worship of the deity of the fountain
     or Baalam's ass or somebody.  Wretched nest of human vermin about
     the fountain--rags, dirt, sunken cheeks, pallor of sickness, sores,
     projecting bones, dull, aching misery in their eyes and ravenous
     hunger speaking from every eloquent fibre and muscle from head to
     foot. How they sprang upon a bone, how they crunched the bread we
     gave them!  Such as these to swarm about one and watch every bite
     he takes, with greedy looks, and swallow unconsciously every time
     he swallows, as if they half fancied the precious morsel went down
     their own throats --hurry up the caravan!--I never shall enjoy a
     meal in this distressful country.  To think of eating three times
     every day under such circumstances for three weeks yet--it is worse
     punishment than riding all day in the sun.  There are sixteen
     starving babies from one to six years old in the party, and their
     legs are no larger than broom handles.  Left the fountain at 1 P.M.
     (the fountain took us at least two hours out of our way,) and
     reached Mahomet's lookout perch, over Damascus, in time to get a
     good long look before it was necessary to move on.  Tired?  Ask of
     the winds that far away with fragments strewed the sea."

As the glare of day mellowed into twilight, we looked down upon a picture which is celebrated
all over the world.  I think I have read about four hundred times that when Mahomet was a simple
camel-driver he reached this point and looked down upon Damascus for the first time, and then
made a certain renowned remark.  He said man could enter only one paradise; he preferred to
go to the one above.  So he sat down there and feasted his eyes upon the earthly paradise of
Damascus, and then went away without entering its gates.  They have erected a tower on the
hill to mark the spot where he stood.

Damascus is beautiful from the mountain.  It is beautiful even to foreigners accustomed to
luxuriant vegetation, and I can easily understand how unspeakably beautiful it must be to eyes
that are only used to the God-forsaken barrenness and desolation of Syria.  I should think
a Syrian would go wild with ecstacy when such a picture bursts upon him for the first time.

From his high perch, one sees before him and below him, a wall of dreary mountains, shorn of
vegetation, glaring fiercely in the sun; it fences in a level desert of yellow sand, smooth
as velvet and threaded far away with fine lines that stand for roads, and dotted with creeping
mites we know are camel-trains and journeying men; right in the midst of the desert is spread
a billowy expanse of green foliage; and nestling in its heart sits the great white city, like
an island of pearls and opals gleaming out of a sea of emeralds.  This is the picture you see
spread far below you, with distance to soften it, the sun to glorify it, strong contrasts to
heighten the effects, and over it and about it a drowsing air of repose to spiritualize it
and make it seem rather a beautiful estray from the mysterious worlds we visit in dreams than
a substantial tenant of our coarse, dull globe.  And when you think of the leagues of blighted,
blasted, sandy, rocky, sun-burnt, ugly, dreary, infamous country you have ridden over to get
here, you think it is the most beautiful, beautiful picture that ever human eyes rested upon
in all the broad universe!  If I were to go to Damascus again, I would camp on Mahomet's hill
about a week, and then go away.  There is no need to go inside the walls.  The Prophet was
wise without knowing it when he decided not to go down into the paradise of Damascus.

There is an honored old tradition that the immense garden which Damascus stands in was the
Garden of Eden, and modern writers have gathered up many chapters of evidence tending to show
that it really was the Garden of Eden, and that the rivers Pharpar and Abana are the "two rivers"
that watered Adam's Paradise.  It may be so, but it is not paradise now, and one would be as
happy outside of it as he would be likely to be within. It is so crooked and cramped and dirty
that one can not realize that he is in the splendid city he saw from the hill-top.  The gardens
are hidden by high mud-walls, and the paradise is become a very sink of pollution and uncomeliness.
Damascus has plenty of clear, pure water in it, though, and this is enough, of itself, to make
an Arab think it beautiful and blessed.  Water is scarce in blistered Syria.  We run railways
by our large cities in America; in Syria they curve the roads so as to make them run by the
meagre little puddles they call "fountains," and which are not found oftener on a journey than
every four hours.  But the "rivers" of Pharpar and Abana of Scripture (mere creeks,) run through
Damascus, and so every house and every garden have their sparkling fountains and rivulets of
water.  With her forest of foliage and her abundance of water, Damascus must be a wonder of
wonders to the Bedouin from the deserts.  Damascus is simply an oasis--that is what it is.
For four thousand years its waters have not gone dry or its fertility failed. Now we can understand
why the city has existed so long.  It could not die.  So long as its waters remain to it away
out there in the midst of that howling desert, so long will Damascus live to bless the sight
of the tired and thirsty wayfarer.

     "Though old as history itself, thou art fresh as the breath of
     spring, blooming as thine own rose-bud, and fragrant as thine own
     orange flower, O Damascus, pearl of the East!"

Damascus dates back anterior to the days of Abraham, and is the oldest city in the world. 
It was founded by Uz, the grandson of Noah.  "The early history of Damascus is shrouded in
the mists of a hoary antiquity." Leave the matters written of in the first eleven chapters
of the Old Testament out, and no recorded event has occurred in the world but Damascus was
in existence to receive the news of it.  Go back as far as you will into the vague past, there
was always a Damascus.  In the writings of every century for more than four thousand years,
its name has been mentioned and its praises sung.  To Damascus, years are only moments, decades
are only flitting trifles of time.  She measures time, not by days and months and years, but
by the empires she has seen rise, and prosper and crumble to ruin.  She is a type of immortality.
She saw the foundations of Baalbec, and Thebes, and Ephesus laid; she saw these villages grow
into mighty cities, and amaze the world with their grandeur--and she has lived to see them
desolate, deserted, and given over to the owls and the bats.  She saw the Israelitish empire
exalted, and she saw it annihilated.  She saw Greece rise, and flourish two thousand years,
and die.  In her old age she saw Rome built; she saw it overshadow the world with its power;
she saw it perish.  The few hundreds of years of Genoese and Venetian might and splendor were,
to grave old Damascus, only a trifling scintillation hardly worth remembering. Damascus has
seen all that has ever occurred on earth, and still she lives.  She has looked upon the dry
bones of a thousand empires, and will see the tombs of a thousand more before she dies.  Though
another claims the name, old Damascus is by right the Eternal City.

We reached the city gates just at sundown.  They do say that one can get into any walled city
of Syria, after night, for bucksheesh, except Damascus.  But Damascus, with its four thousand
years of respectability in the world, has many old fogy notions.  There are no street lamps
there, and the law compels all who go abroad at night to carry lanterns, just as was the case
in old days, when heroes and heroines of the Arabian Nights walked the streets of Damascus,
or flew away toward Bagdad on enchanted carpets.

It was fairly dark a few minutes after we got within the wall, and we rode long distances through
wonderfully crooked streets, eight to ten feet wide, and shut in on either side by the high
mud-walls of the gardens.  At last we got to where lanterns could be seen flitting about here
and there, and knew we were in the midst of the curious old city. In a little narrow street,
crowded with our pack-mules and with a swarm of uncouth Arabs, we alighted, and through a kind
of a hole in the wall entered the hotel.  We stood in a great flagged court, with flowers and
citron trees about us, and a huge tank in the centre that was receiving the waters of many
pipes.  We crossed the court and entered the rooms prepared to receive four of us.  In a large
marble-paved recess between the two rooms was a tank of clear, cool water, which was kept running
over all the time by the streams that were pouring into it from half a dozen pipes.  Nothing,
in this scorching, desolate land could look so refreshing as this pure water flashing in the
lamp-light; nothing could look so beautiful, nothing could sound so delicious as this mimic
rain to ears long unaccustomed to sounds of such a nature.  Our rooms were large, comfortably
furnished, and even had their floors clothed with soft, cheerful-tinted carpets.  It was a
pleasant thing to see a carpet again, for if there is any thing drearier than the tomb-like,
stone-paved parlors and bed-rooms of Europe and Asia, I do not know what it is. They make one
think of the grave all the time.  A very broad, gaily caparisoned divan, some twelve or fourteen
feet long, extended across one side of each room, and opposite were single beds with spring
mattresses. There were great looking-glasses and marble-top tables.  All this luxury was as
grateful to systems and senses worn out with an exhausting day's travel, as it was unexpected--for
one can not tell what to expect in a Turkish city of even a quarter of a million inhabitants.

I do not know, but I think they used that tank between the rooms to draw drinking water from;
that did not occur to me, however, until I had dipped my baking head far down into its cool
depths.  I thought of it then, and superb as the bath was, I was sorry I had taken it, and
was about to go and explain to the landlord.  But a finely curled and scented poodle dog frisked
up and nipped the calf of my leg just then, and before I had time to think, I had soused him
to the bottom of the tank, and when I saw a servant coming with a pitcher I went off and left
the pup trying to climb out and not succeeding very well.  Satisfied revenge was all I needed
to make me perfectly happy, and when I walked in to supper that first night in Damascus I was
in that condition.  We lay on those divans a long time, after supper, smoking narghilies and
long-stemmed chibouks, and talking about the dreadful ride of the day, and I knew then what
I had sometimes known before--that it is worth while to get tired out, because one so enjoys
resting afterward.

In the morning we sent for donkeys.  It is worthy of note that we had to send for these things.
I said Damascus was an old fossil, and she is. Any where else we would have been assailed by
a clamorous army of donkey-drivers, guides, peddlers and beggars--but in Damascus they so hate
the very sight of a foreign Christian that they want no intercourse whatever with him; only
a year or two ago, his person was not always safe in Damascus streets.  It is the most fanatical
Mohammedan purgatory out of Arabia.  Where you see one green turban of a Hadji elsewhere (the
honored sign that my lord has made the pilgrimage to Mecca,) I think you will see a dozen in
Damascus.  The Damascenes are the ugliest, wickedest looking villains we have seen.  All the
veiled women we had seen yet, nearly, left their eyes exposed, but numbers of these in Damascus
completely hid the face under a close-drawn black veil that made the woman look like a mummy.
If ever we caught an eye exposed it was quickly hidden from our contaminating Christian vision;
the beggars actually passed us by without demanding bucksheesh; the merchants in the bazaars
did not hold up their goods and cry out eagerly, "Hey, John!" or "Look this, Howajji!"  On
the contrary, they only scowled at us and said never a word.

The narrow streets swarmed like a hive with men and women in strange Oriental costumes, and
our small donkeys knocked them right and left as we plowed through them, urged on by the merciless
donkey-boys.  These persecutors run after the animals, shouting and goading them for hours
together; they keep the donkey in a gallop always, yet never get tired themselves or fall behind.
The donkeys fell down and spilt us over their heads occasionally, but there was nothing for
it but to mount and hurry on again.  We were banged against sharp corners, loaded porters,
camels, and citizens generally; and we were so taken up with looking out for collisions and
casualties that we had no chance to look about us at all. We rode half through the city and
through the famous "street which is called Straight" without seeing any thing, hardly.  Our
bones were nearly knocked out of joint, we were wild with excitement, and our sides ached with
the jolting we had suffered.  I do not like riding in the Damascus street-cars.

We were on our way to the reputed houses of Judas and Ananias.  About eighteen or nineteen
hundred years ago, Saul, a native of Tarsus, was particularly bitter against the new sect called
Christians, and he left Jerusalem and started across the country on a furious crusade against
them.  He went forth "breathing threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord."

He was told to arise and go into the ancient city and one would tell him what to do.  In the
meantime his soldiers stood speechless and awe-stricken, for they heard the mysterious voice
but saw no man.  Saul rose up and found that that fierce supernatural light had destroyed his
sight, and he was blind, so "they led him by the hand and brought him to Damascus."  He was
converted.

Paul lay three days, blind, in the house of Judas, and during that time he neither ate nor drank.

Ananias did not wish to go at first, for he had heard of Saul before, and he had his doubts
about that style of a "chosen vessel" to preach the gospel of peace.  However, in obedience
to orders, he went into the "street called Straight" (how he found his way into it, and after
he did, how he ever found his way out of it again, are mysteries only to be accounted for by
the fact that he was acting under Divine inspiration.) He found Paul and restored him, and
ordained him a preacher; and from this old house we had hunted up in the street which is miscalled
Straight, he had started out on that bold missionary career which he prosecuted till his death.
It was not the house of the disciple who sold the Master for thirty pieces of silver.  I make
this explanation in justice to Judas, who was a far different sort of man from the person just
referred to.  A very different style of man, and lived in a very good house.  It is a pity
we do not know more about him.

I have given, in the above paragraphs, some more information for people who will not read Bible
history until they are defrauded into it by some such method as this.  I hope that no friend
of progress and education will obstruct or interfere with my peculiar mission.

The street called Straight is straighter than a corkscrew, but not as straight as a rainbow.
St. Luke is careful not to commit himself; he does not say it is the street which is straight,
but the "street which is called Straight."  It is a fine piece of irony; it is the only facetious
remark in the Bible, I believe.  We traversed the street called Straight a good way, and then
turned off and called at the reputed house of Ananias.  There is small question that a part
of the original house is there still; it is an old room twelve or fifteen feet under ground,
and its masonry is evidently ancient.  If Ananias did not live there in St. Paul's time, somebody
else did, which is just as well.  I took a drink out of Ananias' well, and singularly enough,
the water was just as fresh as if the well had been dug yesterday.

We went out toward the north end of the city to see the place where the disciples let Paul
down over the Damascus wall at dead of night--for he preached Christ so fearlessly in Damascus
that the people sought to kill him, just as they would to-day for the same offense, and he
had to escape and flee to Jerusalem.

Then we called at the tomb of Mahomet's children and at a tomb which purported to be that of
St. George who killed the dragon, and so on out to the hollow place under a rock where Paul
hid during his flight till his pursuers gave him up; and to the mausoleum of the five thousand
Christians who were massacred in Damascus in 1861 by the Turks.  They say those narrow streets
ran blood for several days, and that men, women and children were butchered indiscriminately
and left to rot by hundreds all through the Christian quarter; they say, further, that the
stench was dreadful.  All the Christians who could get away fled from the city, and the Mohammedans
would not defile their hands by burying the "infidel dogs."  The thirst for blood extended
to the high lands of Hermon and Anti-Lebanon, and in a short time twenty-five thousand more
Christians were massacred and their possessions laid waste.  How they hate a Christian in Damascus!--and
pretty much all over Turkeydom as well.  And how they will pay for it when Russia turns her
guns upon them again!

It is soothing to the heart to abuse England and France for interposing to save the Ottoman
Empire from the destruction it has so richly deserved for a thousand years.  It hurts my vanity
to see these pagans refuse to eat of food that has been cooked for us; or to eat from a dish
we have eaten from; or to drink from a goatskin which we have polluted with our Christian lips,
except by filtering the water through a rag which they put over the mouth of it or through
a sponge!  I never disliked a Chinaman as I do these degraded Turks and Arabs, and when Russia
is ready to war with them again, I hope England and France will not find it good breeding or
good judgment to interfere.

In Damascus they think there are no such rivers in all the world as their little Abana and
Pharpar.  The Damascenes have always thought that way. In 2 Kings, chapter v., Naaman boasts
extravagantly about them.  That was three thousand years ago.  But some of my readers have
forgotten who Naaman was, long ago.  Naaman was the commander of the Syrian armies.  He was
the favorite of the king and lived in great state.  "He was a mighty man of valor, but he was
a leper."  Strangely enough, the house they point out to you now as his, has been turned into
a leper hospital, and the inmates expose their horrid deformities and hold up their hands and
beg for bucksheesh when a stranger enters.

One can not appreciate the horror of this disease until he looks upon it in all its ghastliness,
in Naaman's ancient dwelling in Damascus.  Bones all twisted out of shape, great knots protruding
from face and body, joints decaying and dropping away--horrible!

CHAPTER XLV.

The last twenty-four hours we staid in Damascus I lay prostrate with a violent attack of cholera,
or cholera morbus, and therefore had a good chance and a good excuse to lie there on that wide
divan and take an honest rest.  I had nothing to do but listen to the pattering of the fountains
and take medicine and throw it up again.  It was dangerous recreation, but it was pleasanter
than traveling in Syria.  I had plenty of snow from Mount Hermon, and as it would not stay
on my stomach, there was nothing to interfere with my eating it--there was always room for
more.  I enjoyed myself very well.  Syrian travel has its interesting features, like travel
in any other part of the world, and yet to break your leg or have the cholera adds a welcome
variety to it.  All the desert glared so fiercely that my eyes were swimming in tears all the
time.  The boys had white umbrellas heavily lined with dark green.  They were a priceless blessing.
I thanked fortune that I had one, too, notwithstanding it was packed up with the baggage and
was ten miles ahead.  It is madness to travel in Syria without an umbrella.  They told me in
Beirout (these people who always gorge you with advice) that it was madness to travel in Syria
without an umbrella.  It was on this account that I got one.

But, honestly, I think an umbrella is a nuisance any where when its business is to keep the
sun off.  No Arab wears a brim to his fez, or uses an umbrella, or any thing to shade his eyes
or his face, and he always looks comfortable and proper in the sun.  But of all the ridiculous
sights I ever have seen, our party of eight is the most so --they do cut such an outlandish
figure.  They travel single file; they all wear the endless white rag of Constantinople wrapped
round and round their hats and dangling down their backs; they all wear thick green spectacles,
with side-glasses to them; they all hold white umbrellas, lined with green, over their heads;
without exception their stirrups are too short--they are the very worst gang of horsemen on
earth, their animals to a horse trot fearfully hard--and when they get strung out one after
the other; glaring straight ahead and breathless; bouncing high and out of turn, all along
the line; knees well up and stiff, elbows flapping like a rooster's that is going to crow,
and the long file of umbrellas popping convulsively up and down--when one sees this outrageous
picture exposed to the light of day, he is amazed that the gods don't get out their thunderbolts
and destroy them off the face of the earth!  I do--I wonder at it.  I wouldn't let any such
caravan go through a country of mine.

And when the sun drops below the horizon and the boys close their umbrellas and put them under
their arms, it is only a variation of the picture, not a modification of its absurdity.

But may be you can not see the wild extravagance of my panorama.  You could if you were here.
Here, you feel all the time just as if you were living about the year 1200 before Christ--or
back to the patriarchs--or forward to the New Era.  The scenery of the Bible is about you--the
customs of the patriarchs are around you--the same people, in the same flowing robes, and in
sandals, cross your path--the same long trains of stately camels go and come--the same impressive
religious solemnity and silence rest upon the desert and the mountains that were upon them
in the remote ages of antiquity, and behold, intruding upon a scene like this, comes this fantastic
mob of green-spectacled Yanks, with their flapping elbows and bobbing umbrellas!  It is Daniel
in the lion's den with a green cotton umbrella under his arm, all over again.

My umbrella is with the baggage, and so are my green spectacles--and there they shall stay.
I will not use them.  I will show some respect for the eternal fitness of things.  It will
be bad enough to get sun-struck, without looking ridiculous into the bargain.  If I fall, let
me fall bearing about me the semblance of a Christian, at least.

Three or four hours out from Damascus we passed the spot where Saul was so abruptly converted,
and from this place we looked back over the scorching desert, and had our last glimpse of beautiful
Damascus, decked in its robes of shining green.  After nightfall we reached our tents, just
outside of the nasty Arab village of Jonesborough.  Of course the real name of the place is
El something or other, but the boys still refuse to recognize the Arab names or try to pronounce
them.  When I say that that village is of the usual style, I mean to insinuate that all Syrian
villages within fifty miles of Damascus are alike--so much alike that it would require more
than human intelligence to tell wherein one differed from another.  A Syrian village is a hive
of huts one story high (the height of a man,) and as square as a dry-goods box; it is mud-plastered
all over, flat roof and all, and generally whitewashed after a fashion.  The same roof often
extends over half the town, covering many of the streets, which are generally about a yard
wide. When you ride through one of these villages at noon-day, you first meet a melancholy
dog, that looks up at you and silently begs that you won't run over him, but he does not offer
to get out of the way; next you meet a young boy without any clothes on, and he holds out his
hand and says "Bucksheesh!" --he don't really expect a cent, but then he learned to say that
before he learned to say mother, and now he can not break himself of it; next you meet a woman
with a black veil drawn closely over her face, and her bust exposed; finally, you come to several
sore-eyed children and children in all stages of mutilation and decay; and sitting humbly in
the dust, and all fringed with filthy rags, is a poor devil whose arms and legs are gnarled
and twisted like grape-vines. These are all the people you are likely to see.  The balance
of the population are asleep within doors, or abroad tending goats in the plains and on the
hill-sides.  The village is built on some consumptive little water-course, and about it is
a little fresh-looking vegetation. Beyond this charmed circle, for miles on every side, stretches
a weary desert of sand and gravel, which produces a gray bunchy shrub like sage-brush.  A Syrian
village is the sorriest sight in the world, and its surroundings are eminently in keeping with it.

I would not have gone into this dissertation upon Syrian villages but for the fact that Nimrod,
the Mighty Hunter of Scriptural notoriety, is buried in Jonesborough, and I wished the public
to know about how he is located.  Like Homer, he is said to be buried in many other places,
but this is the only true and genuine place his ashes inhabit.

When the original tribes were dispersed, more than four thousand years ago, Nimrod and a large
party traveled three or four hundred miles, and settled where the great city of Babylon afterwards
stood.  Nimrod built that city.  He also began to build the famous Tower of Babel, but circumstances
over which he had no control put it out of his power to finish it.  He ran it up eight stories
high, however, and two of them still stand, at this day--a colossal mass of brickwork, rent
down the centre by earthquakes, and seared and vitrified by the lightnings of an angry God.
But the vast ruin will still stand for ages, to shame the puny labors of these modern generations
of men.  Its huge compartments are tenanted by owls and lions, and old Nimrod lies neglected
in this wretched village, far from the scene of his grand enterprise.

We left Jonesborough very early in the morning, and rode forever and forever and forever, it
seemed to me, over parched deserts and rocky hills, hungry, and with no water to drink.  We
had drained the goat-skins dry in a little while.  At noon we halted before the wretched Arab
town of El Yuba Dam, perched on the side of a mountain, but the dragoman said if we applied
there for water we would be attacked by the whole tribe, for they did not love Christians. "That
Glover girl is likely chill her bottom on the formation, and I must
come."

The victim was a small early for his armageddon, but no miss lay in lapse
for him would.

"Alas, my sister! it is there since one of those Mountain baby enamour
me!"  It is a thousand feet long and two hundred wide, all of the most symmetrical, and at
the same time the most ponderous masonry.  The massive towers and bastions are more than thirty
feet high, and have been sixty.  From the mountain's peak its broken turrets rise above the
groves of ancient oaks and olives, and look wonderfully picturesque.  It is of such high antiquity
that no man knows who built it or when it was built. It is utterly inaccessible, except in
one place, where a bridle-path winds upward among the solid rocks to the old portcullis.  The
horses' hoofs have bored holes in these rocks to the depth of six inches during the hundreds
and hundreds of years that the castle was garrisoned.  We wandered for three hours among the
chambers and crypts and dungeons of the fortress, and trod where the mailed heels of many a
knightly Crusader had rang, and where Phenician heroes had walked ages before them.

We wondered how such a solid mass of masonry could be affected even by an earthquake, and could
not understand what agency had made Banias a ruin; but we found the destroyer, after a while,
and then our wonder was increased tenfold.  Seeds had fallen in crevices in the vast walls;
the seeds had sprouted; the tender, insignificant sprouts had hardened; they grew larger and
larger, and by a steady, imperceptible pressure forced the great stones apart, and now are
bringing sure destruction upon a giant work that has even mocked the earthquakes to scorn!
Gnarled and twisted trees spring from the old walls every where, and beautify and overshadow
the gray battlements with a wild luxuriance of foliage.

From these old towers we looked down upon a broad, far-reaching green plain, glittering with
the pools and rivulets which are the sources of the sacred river Jordan.  It was a grateful
vision, after so much desert.

