§ 22. In former times divers Airs were heard in the Theatre in this delightful Manner, preceded
and accompanied with harmonious and well-modulated Instruments, that ravished the Senses of
those who comprehended the Contrivance and the Melody; and if sung by one of those five or
six eminent Persons abovementioned, it was then impossible for a human Soul, not to melt into
Tenderness and Tears from the violent Motion of the Affections. Oh! powerful Proof to confound
the idoliz'd Mode! Are there in these Times any, who are moved with Tenderness, or Sorrow?----No,
(say all the Auditors) no; for, the continual singing of the Moderns in the Allegro Stile,
though when in Perfection That deserves Admiration, yet touches very slightly one that hath
a delicate Ear. The Taste of the Ancients was a Mixture of the Lively and the Cantabile the
Variety of which could not fail giving Delight; but the Moderns are so pre-possessed with Taste
in Mode, that, rather than comply with the former, they are contented to lose the greatest
Part of its Beauty. The Study of the Pathetick was the Darling of the former; and Application
to the most difficult Divisions is the only Drift of the latter. Those perform'd with more
Judgment; and These execute with greater Boldness. But since I have presum'd to compare the
most celebrated Singers in both Stiles, pardon me if I conclude with saying, that the Moderns
are arrived at the highest Degree of Perfection in singing to the Ear; and that the Ancients
are inimitable in singing to the Heart.

§ 23. However, it ought not to be denied, but that the best Singers of these times have in
some Particulars refined the preceding Taste, with some Productions worthy to be imitated;
and as an evident Mark of Esteem, we must publicly own, that if they were but a little more
Friends to the Pathetick and the Expressive, and a little less to the Divisions, they might
boast of having brought the Art to the highest Degree of Perfection.

§ 24. It may also possibly be, that the extravagant Ideas in the present Compositions, have
deprived the abovementioned Singers of the Opportunity of shewing their Ability in the Cantabile;
in as much as the Airs at present in vogue go Whip and Spur with such violent Motions, as take
away their Breath, far from giving them an Opportunity of shewing the Exquisiteness of their
Taste. But, good God! since there are so many modern Composers, among whom are some of Genius
equal, and perhaps greater than the best Ancients, for what Reason or Motive do they always
exclude from their Compositions, the so-much-longed-for Adagio? Can its gentle Nature ever
be guilty of a Crime? If it cannot gallop with the Airs that are always running Post, why not
reserve it for those that require Repose, or at least for a compassionate one, which is to
assist an unfortunate Hero, when he is to shed Tears, or die on the Stage?----No, Sir, No;
the grand Mode demands that he be quick, and ready to burst himself in his Lamentations, and
weep with Liveliness. But what can one say? The Resentment of the modern Taste is not appeased
with the Sacrifice of the Pathetick and the Adagio only, two inseparable Friends, but goes
so far, as to prescribe those Airs, as Confederates, that have not the Sharp third. Can any
thing be more absurd? Gentlemen Composers, (I do not speak to the eminent, but with all due
Respect) Musick in my Time has chang'd its Stile three times: The first which pleased on the
Stage, and in the Chamber, was that of Pier. Simone[69], and of Stradella[70]; the second is
of the best that now living[71]; and I leave others to judge whether they are Modern. But of
your Stile, which is not quite established yet in Italy, and which has yet gained no Credit
at all beyond the Alps, those that come after us will soon give their Opinion; for Modes last
not long. But if the Profession is to continue, and end with the World, either you yourselves
will see your Mistake, or your Successors will reform it. Wou'd you know how? By banishing
the Abuses, and recalling the first, second, and third Mood[72], to relieve the fifth, sixth,
and eighth, which are quite jaded. They will revive the fourth and seventh now dead to you,
and buried in Churches, for the final Closes. To oblige the Taste of the Singers and the Hearers,
the Allegro will now and then be mixed with the Pathetick. The Airs will not always be drowned
with the Indiscretion of the Instruments, that hide the artful Delicacy of the Piano, and the
soft Voices, nay, even all Voices which will not bawl: They will no longer bear being teased
with Unisons[73], the Invention of Ignorance, to hide from the Vulgar the Insufficiency and
Inability of many Men and Women Singers: They will recover the instrumental Harmony now lost:
They will compose more for the Voice than the Instruments: The part for the Voice will no more
have the Mortification to resign its Place to the Violins: The Soprano's and Contr'Alto's will
no more sing the Airs in the Manner of the Bass, in Spight of a thousand Octaves: And, finally,
their Airs will be more affecting, and less alike; more studied, and less painful to the Singer;
and so much the more grand, as they are remote from the Vulgar. But, methinks, I hear it said,
that the theatrical Licence is great, and that the Mode pleases, and that I grow too bold.
And may I not reply, that the Abuse is greater, that the Invention is pernicious, and that
my Opinion is not singular. Am I the only Professor who knows that the best Compositions are
the Cause of singing well, and the worst very prejudicial? Have we not more than once heard
that the Quality of the Compositions has been capable, with a few Songs, of establishing the
Reputation of a middling Singer, and destroying That of one who had acquired one by Merit?
That Musick, which is composed by one of Judgment and Taste, instructs the Scholar, perfects
the Skilful, and delights the Hearer. But since we have opened the Ball, let us dance.

§ 25. He that first introduced Musick on the Stage, probably thought to lead her to a Triumph,
and raise her to a Throne. But who would ever have imagined, that in the short Course of a
few Years, she should be reduced to the fatal Circumstance of seeing her own Tragedy? Ye pompous
Fabricks of the Theatres! We should look upon you with Horror, being raised from the Ruins
of Harmony: You are the Origin of the Abuses, and of the Errors: From You is derived the modern
Stile and the Multitude of Ballad-makers: You are the only Occasion of the Scarcity of judicious
and well-grounded Professors, who justly deserve the Title of Chapel-Master[74]; since the
poor Counterpoint[75] has been condemned, in this corrupted Age, to beg for a Piece of Bread
in Churches, whilst the Ignorance of many exults on the Stage, the most part of the Composers
have been prompted from Avarice, or Indigence, to abandon in such Manner the true Study, that
one may foresee (if not succoured by those few, that still gloriously sustain its dearest Precepts)
Musick, after having lost the Name of Science, and a Companion of Philosophy, will run the
Risque of being reputed unworthy to enter into the sacred Temples, from the Scandal given there,
by their Jiggs, Minuets, and Furlana's[76]; and, in fact, where the Taste is so deprav'd, what
would make the Difference between the Church-Musick, and the Theatrical, if Money was received
at the Church Doors?

