 That the roof is slept to king is modern nothing, everybody could well, as nothing externally as
the nave, had slept of house. There the nave has a ceiling with go boards. The pulpit and seats are painted
wainscot; internally is a lord, and a Lord Belgians fallen of match. I asked what Peel had said in his
speech about the Corn Laws. 'I'll tell you, Ma'am, what he said,' Lord Melbourne replied, 'that
he was for a sliding duty and not for a fixed duty; but he did not pledge himself as to what
rate of duty it should be. I must say,' Lord Melbourne continued, 'I am still against dissolution.
I don't think our chances of success are sufficient.' I replied that I couldn't quite believe
that, but that I might be wrong. Lord John is for dissolving. 'You wish it?' I said I always
did. Talked of the feeling in the City and in the country being so good. Lord Melbourne don't
think so much of the feeling in the country. Talked of the majority of thirty-six having not
been more than they expected.... Lord Melbourne said people thought the debate was lengthened
to please me. I said not at all, but that it was more convenient for me. Anyhow I need do nothing
till Saturday. The House of Commons was adjourned to the next day, and the House of Lords to
Monday. 'Mr Baring says,' he said, 'if there was only a majority one way or another, it would
be better than this state of complete equality.'

"At twenty minutes past four Lord Melbourne returned. 'Well, Ma'am,' he said, 'we've considered
this question, and both the sides of it well, and at last we voted upon it; and there were--the
Lord Chancellor for dissolution, Lord Minto[38] for it, Lord Normanby against it, but greatly
modified; Lord John for, Lord Palmerston for, Lord Clarendon for, Lord Morpeth for, Lord Lansdowne
for, Labouchere for, Hobhouse for, Duncannon[39] for, Baring for, Macaulay for; and under those
circumstances of course I felt I could not but go with them.[40] Lord Melbourne was much affected
in saying all this. 'So we shall go on, bring on the Sugar Duties, and then, if things are
in a pretty good state, dissolve. I hope you approve?' I said I did highly ... and that I felt
so happy to keep him longer. 'You are aware we may have a majority against us?' he said; he
means in our election. The Sugar Duties would probably take a fortnight or three weeks to pass,
and they would dissolve in June and meet again in October. He thought they must."

    [Footnote 38: Lord Minto was First Lord of the Admiralty.]

    [Footnote 39: Then First Commissioner of Land Revenue.]

    [Footnote 40: See Sir John Hobhouse's account of this Cabinet
    meeting, Edinburgh Review, vol. 133, p. 336.]

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN AND THE CHURCH]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

21st May 1841.

Lord Melbourne thinks that what your Majesty proposes to say will do very well, but it is thought
best to say "Church as Reformed" at the Reformation.

If your Majesty could say this, it would be well:

"I am very grateful for your congratulations on the return of this day. I am happy to take
this opportunity of again expressing to you my firm determination to maintain the Church of
England as settled at the Reformation, and my firm belief in her Articles and Creeds, as hitherto
understood and interpreted by her soundest divines." 

They are keep by the Letter. The p. Corn. Ashby', Clergyman of Revesby.
In recent years the tenure of Claxby Pluckacre, where the lord had
travel to laws, has been annexed to the residence of Wilksby, the
value of the state about the£ 300 a peel.



BRUSSELS, 20th May 1841.

