What is Divine presents itself in the world in what corresponds. The Word is therefore written
wholly in correspondence. The ladder set between earth and heaven, or between the lowest and
the highest, signifies communication. In the original tongue the term ladder is derived from
an expression which signifies a path or way, and a path or way is predicated of truth. By a
ladder, therefore, one extremity of which is set on the earth, while the other reaches to heaven,
is signified the communication of truth which is in the lowest place with truth which is in
the highest, indeed with inmost good and truth, such as are in heaven, and from which heaven
itself is an ascent as it were from what is lowest, and afterward when the order is inverted,
a descent, and is the order of man's regeneration. The arcanum which lies concealed in the
internal sense of these words is, that all goods and truths descend from the Lord, and ascend
to Him, for man is so created that the Divine things of the Lord may descend through him even
to the ultimates of nature, and from the ultimates of nature may ascend to Him; so that man
might be a medium uniting the Divine with the world of nature, and uniting the world of nature
with the Divine, that thus, through man, as through the uniting medium, the very ultimate of
nature might live from the Divine, which would be the case had man lived according to Divine order.

--Arcana Coelestia, nn. 3699-3702

ITS FUNCTION

Divine truth, in passing from the Lord through the three heavens to men in the world, is written
and made the Word in each heaven. The Word, therefore, is the union of the heavens with one
another, and of the heavens with the Church in the world. Hence there flows in from the Lord
through the heavens a holy Divine with the man who acknowledges the Divine in the Lord and
the holy in the Word, while he reads it. Such a man can be instructed and can draw wisdom from
the Word as from the Lord Himself or from heaven itself, in the measure that he loves it, and
thus can be nourished with the same food with which the angels themselves are fed, and in which
there is life, according to these words of the Lord:

     "The words that I speak unto you, they are spirit, and they
     are life."

     "The water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of
     water springing up into everlasting life."

     "Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word which
     proceedeth out of the mouth of God."

--Apocalypse Explained, n. 1074

HOW TO USE IT

They who, in reading the Word, look to the Lord, by acknowledging that all truth and all good
are from Him, and nothing from themselves,--they are enlightened, and see truth and perceive
what is good from the Word. That enlightenment is from the light of heaven.

--Arcana Coelestia, n. 9405

ITS DISSEMINATION OF LIGHT

There cannot be any conjunction with heaven unless somewhere upon the earth there is a Church
where the Word is and by it the Lord is known. It is sufficient that there be a Church where
the Word is, even though it should consist of few relatively. The Lord is present by it, nevertheless,
in the whole world. The light is greatest where those are who have the Word. Thence it extends
itself as from a centre out to the last periphery. Thence comes the enlightenment of nations
and peoples outside the Church, too, by the Word.

--Doctrine concerning the Sacred Scripture, nn. 104, 106

A CANON ON A NEW PRINCIPLE

The books of the Word are all those which have an internal sense. XVI, 18. (I, 16,17).

--True Christian Religion, n. 445

GOOD IN ITS WHOLENESS

Before repentance good is not done from the Lord, but from the man. It has not, therefore,
the essence of good within it, however it appears like good outwardly. Good after repentance
is another thing altogether. It is a whole good, unobstructed from the Lord Himself. It is
lovely; it is innocent; it is agreeable, and heavenly. The Lord is in it, and heaven. Good
itself is in it. It is alive, fashioned of truths. Whatever is thus from good, in good, and
toward good, is nothing less than a use to the neighbor, and hence it is a serving. It puts
away self and what is one's own, and thus evil, with every breath. Its form is like the form
of a charming and beautifully colored flower, shining in the rays of the sun.

--The Doctrine of Charity, n. 150

THE MAN OF CHARITY

Every man who looks to the Lord and shuns evils as sins, if he sincerely, justly and faithfully
performs the work which belongs to his office and employment, becomes an embodiment of charity.

--The Doctrine of Charity, VII

In common belief charity is nothing else than giving to the poor, succoring the needy, caring
for widows and orphans, contributing to the building of hospitals, infirmaries, asylums, orphanages,
and especially churches, and to their decoration and income. But most of these things are not
the proper activities of charity, but extraneous to it. A distinction is to be made between
the duties of charity, and its benefactions. By the duties of charity those exercises of it
are meant, which proceed directly from charity itself. These have to do primarily with one's
occupation. By the benefactions those aids are meant which are given outside of, and over and
above the duties.

--True Christian Religion, n. 425

THE ACTIVITY OF CHARITY

Charity is an inward affection, moving man to do what is good, and this without recompense.
So to act is his life's delight.

The life of charity is to will well and to do well by the neighbor; in all work, and in every
employment, acting out of regard to what is just and equitable, good and true. In a word, the
life of charity consists in the performance of uses.

--Heavenly Doctrine, nn. 106, 124

FAITH THE PARTNER OF CHARITY

Neither charity alone nor faith alone can produce good works, any more than a husband alone
or a wife alone can have offspring. The truths of faith not only illuminate charity, but qualify
it, too; and, moreover, they nourish it. A man, then, who has charity and not truths of faith,
is like one walking in a garden in the night-time, snatching fruit from the trees without knowing
whether it is of a good or evil use.

--True Christian Religion, n. 377

THE PATRIOTISM OF CHARITY

One's country is the neighbor more than a society, for it consists of many societies, and consequently
the love of it is a more extended and a higher love. Besides, to love one's country is to love
the public welfare. A man's country is the neighbor because it is like a parent; for there
he was born; it has nourished and still nourishes him; it has protected him from harm, and
still protects him. From love for it he ought to do good to his country according to its needs,
some of which are natural, and others spiritual. The country ought to be loved, not as a man
loves himself, but more than himself. This is a law inscribed on the human heart. And from
the law has issued the proposition, which has the assent of every true man, that if ruin threatens
the country from an enemy or other source, it is illustrious to die for it, and glorious for
a soldier to shed his blood for it. This is a common saying, because so much should one's country
be loved. Those who love their country, and from good will do good to it, after death love
the Lord's kingdom, for this is their country there; and they who love the Lord's kingdom,
love the Lord, for He is the All in all of His Kingdom.

--True Christian Religion, n. 414

FAITH AND DOUBT

There are those who are in doubt before they deny, and there are those who are in doubt before
they affirm. Those in doubt before they deny, are men who incline to a life of evil. When that
life sways them, they deny things spiritual and celestial to the extent that they think of
them. But those in doubt before they affirm, are men who incline to a life of good. When they
suffer themselves to be turned to this life by the Lord, they then affirm things spiritual
and celestial to the extent that they think of them.

--Arcana Coelestia, n. 2568

THE FAITH OF THE FAITHFUL

It is one thing to know truths, another to acknowledge them, and yet another to have faith
in them. Only the faithful can have faith.

--Arcana Coelestia, n. 896

The only faith that endures with man springs from heavenly love. Those without love have knowledge
merely, or persuasion. Just to believe in truth and in the Word is not faith. Faith is to love
truth, and to will and do it from inward affection for it.

--Heaven and Hell, n. 482

If a man thinks to himself or says to another, "Who can have that inward acknowledgment of
truth which is faith? I cannot," I will tell him how he may: "Shun evils as sins, and go to
the Lord, and you will have as much as you desire."

--Doctrine Concerning Faith, n. 12

NEIGHBORS

Not only is the individual man the neighbor, but the collective man, too. A society, smaller
or larger, is the neighbor; the Church is; the Kingdom of the Lord is; and above all the Lord
Himself. These are the neighbor, to whom good is to be done from love. These are also the ascending
degrees of the neighbor; for a society consisting of many is the neighbor in a higher degree
than is the individual; one's country in a still higher degree; the Church in a still higher
degree than one's country; in a degree higher still the Kingdom of the Lord; and in the highest
degree the Lord Himself. These degrees of ascent are like the steps in a ladder, at the top
of which is the Lord.

--Heavenly Doctrine, n. 91

DIVERSIONS

There is an affection in every employment, which puts the mind upon the stretch and keeps it
intent upon its work or study. If it is not relaxed, this becomes heavy, and its desire meaningless;
as salt, when it loses its saltness, no longer stimulates, and as the bow on the stretch, unless
it is unbent, loses the force it gets from its elasticity. Continuously intent upon its work,
the mind wants rest; and dropping to the physical life, it seeks pleasures there that answer
to its activities. As is the mind in them, such are the pleasures, pure or impure, spiritual
or natural, heavenly or infernal. If it is the affection of charity which is in them, all diversions
will recreate it--shows, games, instrumental and vocal music, the beauties of field and garden,
social intercourse generally. There remains deep in them, being gradually renewed as it rests,
the love of work and service. The longing to resume this work breaks in upon the diversions
and puts an end to them. For the Lord flows into the diversions from heaven, and renews the
man; and He gives the man an interior sense of pleasure in them, too, of which those know nothing
who are not in the affection of charity.

--Doctrine of Charity, nn. 127, 128, 130

THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE

    "He leadeth me."

                  --Psalm, XXIII, 2

THE DIVINE PURPOSE

The Divine Providence has for an end a heaven which shall consist of men who have become angels
or who are becoming angels, to whom the Lord can impart from Himself all the blessedness and
felicity of love and wisdom.

--Divine Providence, n. 27

THE LAWFUL ORDER OF PROVIDENCE

