ZADIG;

OR, THE

Book of Fate.

AN

Oriental HISTORY,

Translated from the

French ORIGINAL

OF

Mr. VOLTAIRE.

    ----Quo fata trahunt, retrahuntque sequamur. This did not speak
my uncle, but at mozallón, and talk about something, the two of them up once a "Prao-Council."

- Jorrios! - He said climbing ahead of me, without a moment and turn
away, but air shaking his right hand.

The 18th of the Month Scheval, in the Year of the Hegira, 837.

Thou Joy of ev'ry Eye! Thou Torment of every Heart! Thou Intellectual Light! I do not kiss
the Dust of thy Feet; because thou seldom art seen out of the Seraglio, and when thou art,
thou walkest only on the Carpets of Iran, or on Beds of Roses.

I here present you with a Translation of the Work of an ancient Sage, who having the Happiness
of living free from all Avocations, thought proper, by Way of Amusement, to write the History
of Zadig; a Performance, that comprehends in it more Instruction than, 'tis possible, you may
at first be aware of. I beg you would indulge me so far as to read it over, and then pass your
impartial Judgment upon it: For notwithstanding you are in the Bloom of your Life; tho' ev'ry
Pleasure courts you; tho' you are Nature's Darling, and have internal Qualities in proportion
to your Beauty; tho' the World resounds your Praises from Morning till Night, and consequently
you must have a just Title to a superior Degree of Understanding than the rest of your Sex;
Yet your Wit is no ways flashy; Your Taste is refin'd, and I have had the Honour to hear you
talk more learnedly than the wisest Dervise, with his venerable Beard, and pointed Bonnet:
You are discreet, and yet not mistrustful; you are easy, but not weak; you are beneficent with
Discretion; you love your Friends, and create yourself no Enemies. Your most sprightly Flights
borrow no Graces from Detraction; you never speak a misbecoming Word, nor do an ill-natur'd
Action, tho' 'tis always in your Power. In a Word, your Soul is as spotless as your Person.
You have, moreover, a little Fund of Philosophy, which gives me just Grounds to hope that you'll
relish this Historical Performance better than any other Lady of your Quality would do.

It was originally compos'd in the Chaldean Language, to which both you and my self are perfect
Strangers. It was translated, however, into Arabic, for the Amusement of the celebrated Sultan
OULOUG-BEG. It first appear'd in Public, when the Arabian and Persian Tales of One Thousand
and One Nights, and One Thousand and One Days, were most in Vogue: OULOUG chose rather to entertain
himself with the Adventures of Zadig. The Sultanas indeed were more fond of the former. How
can you, said the judicious OULOUG, be so partial, as to prefer a Set of Tales, that are no
ways interesting or instructive, to a Work, that has a Variety of Beauties to recommend it?
Oh! replied the Sultanas, the less Sense there is in them, the more they are in Taste; and
the less their Merit, the greater their Commendation.

I flatter my self, thou Patroness of Wisdom, that thou wilt not copy after those thoughtless
Sultanas, but give into the Sentiments of OULOUG. To believe by his word, he was a drug dealer by necessity, but luxury. He
liked to run the world and see everything and to do as they please, as it was rich for her
house and had plenty of money, ran that way, buying jewelry 'to all cost 'in the big cities
of the earth, to hand them over to the poor men and good girls of the hamlet for a piece of bread.
So he was fine pearls price East of Castilla chickpeas; puñalitos Damascus and gold watches, razors
cheaper than Albacete and covers of tin. I had seen many lands and studied many books, I knew a
little of everything there was to know, and give remedies, and even sold them at "Rout" of course,
for any breed of diseases ... and setbacks, because in his opinion, nothing was truly incurable,
knowing look to things your reason, as he knew, having studied many books and have run many
lands. This second baratijero campaign was a sweeper in place. Not a speck left Tablanca Rogue.
Particularly Facia, which was his sencillota and noble, had been wasted. Spent necklaces of all
colors, rings, and alfilerones espejucos of all makes, a lot of money: all the savings of its
soldiers and more than requested account, courageously facing the indignities apostrophized with
the master. For those craving was insatiable and he boldly inconceivable in shortly before,
so modest, courteous and respectful girl, flowed from a "I do not know a bad one" as a curse, and
that "pulling the pulling" against his taste to store trinkets, and particularly to the graces of baratijero.
As he had noted the inclination and she was (no offense) the best girl among the many and very
good they had in place, pulled the rogue and chicoleos flattery, and even the haunted house
at night and sang a few songs 'fine' to the sound of a guitar "that properly speaking between
his hands. " In short, the innocent ewe came to click with such terms Sorcerer's lover, only she was
a bit of trial, the purely essential to respond in one of his most obstinate sieges, that
"being like God sent and in front of the Church and to live in Tablanca to the side of his
master, when would see fit. "

He held the man his impetus to the response; meditóla for a few days, decided to done so; corrióse
the news by the people envied his mad fortune Facia all it girls, the case came to the ears
of Don Celso, touched the sky with his hands made the unfortunate
crazy in love and without shame that there was no where to catch it,
swore and swore that baratijero was a scoundrel of seven soles, that
there was only looking at his face to convince this, that God knows
where he would be born, and where would have gone to where then, and
that the cross of Jesus Christ consider this and that and beyond ...
As if quiet.

The spell was swallowed, and Facia not give up a point in their endeavor. Well persuaded then
his master that there was no reasoning can convince her, nor as rigorous as of planting on the
street, not worsen the fate of the unhappy, including loss view or unhappy, chose the lesser evil
after day: a shack that had managed half left to the lower end of the valley land and livestock
agrególe; did, finally, how can becoming a parent for a child in such cases, and said to Facia after
refusing to receive the groom and see the range of your voice:

- Marry when you please, and weather there for, even, even when grief kill you, you die in his own
bed after asking God for forgiveness of your ingratitude and madness.

A few days of married with great pomp, baratijero, it was another man other than what was in place
before marriage, until the face looked different, especially when talking to his wife who spoke
little, looked low and evil, and it seemed that bothered him until his shadow. One month after
this, he did not know to work the land or manage livestock, and those
wealth that had "for his home," said the bachelor, did not see a penny
to raise the burdens of their new state, took what was left of his
tenducho and went to run fairs and markets with it.

 For which Purpose he
determin'd to marry a gay young Lady (one Semira by name) whose Beauty, Birth and Fortune,
render'd her the most desirable Person in all Babylon. He had a sincere Affection for her,
grounded on Honour, and Semira conceiv'd as tender a Passion for him. They were just upon the
critical Minute of a mutual Conjunction in the Bands of Matrimony, when, as they were walking
Hand in Hand together towards one of the Gates of Babylon, under the Shade of a Row of Palm-trees,
that grew on the Banks of the River Euphrates, they were beset by a Band of Ruffians, arm'd
with Sabres, Bows and Arrows. They were the Guards, it seems, of young Orcan (Nephew of a certain
Minister of State) whom the Parasites, kept by his Uncle, had buoy'd up with a Permission to
do, with Impunity, whatever he thought proper. This young Rival, tho' he had none of those
internal Qualities to boast of that Zadig had, yet he imagin'd himself a Man of more Power;
and for that Reason, was perfectly outrageous to see the other preferr'd before him. This Fit
of Jealousy, the Result of mere Vanity, prompted him to think that he was deeply in Love with
the fair Semira; and fir'd with that amorous Notion, he was determin'd to take her away from
Zadig, by Dint of Arms. At a time I found
myself alone with my uncle, before picking me up that night, I spoke of the event. Of Suddenly
I felt somewhat piqued the curiosity, but then changed his appearance, he shrugged shoulder
and said:

- It is the unhappy mema. Where's my dear
Husband, she cried? They have torn me from the Arms of the only Man whom I adore. She never
reflected on the Danger to which she was expos'd; her sole Concern was for her beloved Zadig.
At the same Time, he defended her, like a Lover, and a Man of Integrity and Courage. She shivered suddenly saw me beside her, and apologized for having taken by ... I
did not say why or by whom, but began to mourn and fled into hiding in fourth border to the
door of the staircase, which she lived and Tona. Chisco, when he noticed that I had sat down, stopped, turned toward me,
smiled his way to see me so well accommodated, and finally, back slowly.

- Tell me why - I said as he stopped next to me - but with all his
hair and signals. Never did the Lips of the fairest Creature living utter
softer Sounds; never did the most enamoured Lady breathe such tender Sentiments of Love and
Gratitude for his signal Service; never, in short, did the most affectionate Bride express
such Transports of Joy for the fondest Husband. Like flies came to his gleaming tenducho the poor
fool of the fair, and fell like flies in honey and flattery of their weights, deceiver leaving the
bait down to the last penny of savings for very different purposes. For women, especially, was the
charlatan an irresistible hook, and for good girls, in particular, a "one" that reckless. So
good was the indino in that endeavor, which had just moved the tenducho fair to the people and opened
in a makeshift shed next to the church.
 She sent as far as Memphis for Hermes, the celebrated Physician there,
who instantly attended his new Patient with a numerous Retinue. Upon his first Visit, he peremptorily
declared that Zadig would lose his Eye; and foretold not only the Day, but the very Hour when
that woful Disaster would befal him. Had it been, said that Great Man, his right Eye, I could
have administred an infallible Specific; but as it is, his Misfortune is beyond the Art of
Man to cure. He returned after two months, starving, poorly addressed and poorly dressed.
Made himself formidable to his wife, whom he beat with the slightest pretext, and all suspect
the neighborhood, that was not made to see in this honest soil of such lazy and renegades aspect.
.