The Complete Works of F. Marion Crawford

ADAM JOHNSTONE'S SON

by

F. MARION CRAWFORD

With Frontispiece

P. F. Collier & Son New York

Copyright 1895, 1896, 1897 by F. Marion Crawford All Rights Reserved

ADAM JOHNSTONE'S SON

CHAPTER I

"I sometimes think that one's past life is written in a foreign language," said Mrs. Bowring,
shutting the book she held, but keeping the place with one smooth, thin forefinger, while her
still, blue eyes turned from her daughter's face towards the hazy hills that hemmed the sea
thirty miles to the southward. "When one wants to read it, one finds ever so many words which
one cannot understand, and one has to look them out in a sort of unfamiliar dictionary, and
try to make sense of the sentences as best one can. Only the big things are clear."

Clare glanced at her mother, smiling innocently and half mechanically, without much definite
expression, and quite without curiosity. Youth can be in sympathy with age, while not understanding
it, while not suspecting, perhaps, that there is anything to understand beyond the streaked
hair and the pale glance and the little torture-lines which paint the portrait of fifty years
for the eyes of twenty.

Every woman knows the calendar of her own face. The lines are years, one for such and such
a year, one for such and such another; the streaks are months, perhaps, or weeks, or sometimes
hours, where the tear-storms have bleached the brown, the black, or the gold. "This little
wrinkle--it was so very little then!" she says. "It came when I doubted for a day. There is
a shadow there, just at each temple, where the cloud passed, when my sun went out. The bright
hair grew lower on my forehead. It is worn away, as though by a crown, that was not of gold.
There are hollows there, near the ears, on each side, since that week when love was done to
death before my eyes and died--intestate--leaving his substance to be divided amongst indifferent
heirs. They wrangle for what he has left, but he himself is gone, beyond hearing or caring,
and, thank God, beyond suffering. But the marks are left."

Youth looks on and sees alike the ill-healed wounds of the martyrdom and the rough scars of
sin's scourges, and does not understand. Clare Bowring smiled, without definite expression,
just because her mother had spoken and seemed to ask for sympathy; and then she looked away
for a few moments. She had a bit of work in her hands, a little bag which she was making out
of a piece of old Italian damask, to hold a needle-case and thread and scissors. She had stopped
sewing, and instinctively waited before beginning again, as though to acknowledge by a little
affectionate deference that her mother had said something serious and had a right to expect
attention. But she did not answer, for she could not understand.

Her own young life was vividly clear to her; so very vividly clear, that it sometimes made
her think of a tiresome chromolithograph. All the facts and thoughts of it were so near that
she knew them by heart, as people come to know the patterns of the wall-paper in the room they
inhabit. She had nothing to hide, nothing to regret, nothing which she thought she should care
very much to recall, though she remembered everything. A girl is very young when she can recollect
distinctly every frock she has had, the first long one, and the second, and the third; and
the first ball gown, and the second, and no third, because that is still in the future, and
a particular pair of gloves which did not fit, and a certain pair of shoes she wore so long
because they were so comfortable, and the precise origin of every one of the few trinkets and
bits of jewellery she possesses. That was Clare Bowring's case. She could remember everything
and everybody in her life. But her father was not in her memories, and there was a little motionless
grey cloud in the place where he should have been. He had been a soldier, and had been killed
in an obscure skirmish with black men, in one of England's obscure but expensive little wars.
Death is always very much the same thing, and it seems unfair that the guns of Balaclava should
still roar "glory" while the black man's quick spear-thrust only spells "dead," without comment.
But glory in death is even more a matter of luck than fame in life. At all events, Captain
Bowring, as brave a gentleman as ever faced fire, had perished like so many other brave gentlemen
of his kind, in a quiet way, without any fuss, beyond killing half a dozen or so of his assailants,
and had left his widow the glory of receiving a small pension in return for his blood, and
that was all. Some day, when the dead are reckoned, and the manner of their death noted, poor
Bowring may count for more than some of his friends who died at home from a constitutional
inability to enjoy all the good things fortune set before them, complicated by a disposition
incapable of being satisfied with only a part of the feast. But at the time of this tale they
counted for more than he; for they had been constrained to leave behind them what they could
not consume, while he, poor man, had left very little besides the aforesaid interest in the
investment of his blood, in the form of a pension to his widow, and the small grey cloud in
the memory of his girl-child, in the place where he should have been. For he had been killed
when she had been a baby.

The mother and daughter were lonely, if not alone in the world; for when one has no money to
speak of, and no relations at all, the world is a lonely place, regarded from the ordinary
point of view--which is, of course, the true one. They had no home in England, and they generally
lived abroad, more or less, in one or another of the places of society's departed spirits,
such as Florence. They had not, however, entered into Limbo without hope, since they were able
to return to the social earth when they pleased, and to be alive again, and the people they
met abroad sometimes asked them to stop with them at home, recognising the fact that they were
still socially living and casting shadows. They were sure of half a hundred friendly faces
in London and of half a dozen hospitable houses in the country; and that is not little for
people who have nothing wherewith to buy smiles and pay for invitations. Clare had more than
once met women of her mother's age and older, who had looked at her rather thoughtfully and
longer than had seemed quite natural, saying very quietly that her father had been "a great
friend of theirs." But those were not the women whom her mother liked best, and Clare sometimes
wondered whether the little grey cloud in her memory, which represented her father, might not
be there to hide away something more human than an ideal. Her mother spoke of him, sometimes
gravely, sometimes with a far-away smile, but never tenderly. The smile did not mean much,
Clare thought. People often spoke of dead people with a sort of faint look of uncertain beatitude--the
same which many think appropriate to the singing of hymns. The absence of anything like tenderness
meant more. The gravity was only natural and decent.

"Your father was a brave man," Mrs. Bowring sometimes said. "Your father was very handsome,"
she would say. "He was very quick-tempered," she perhaps added.

But that was all. Clare had a friend whose husband had died young and suddenly, and her friend's
heart was broken. She did not speak as Mrs. Bowring did. When the latter said that her past
life seemed to be written in a foreign language, Clare did not understand, but she knew that
the something of which the translation was lost, as it were, belonged to her father. She always
felt an instinctive desire to defend him, and to make her mother feel more sympathy for his
memory. Yet, at the same time, she loved her mother in such a way as made her feel that if
there had been any trouble, her father must have been in the wrong. Then she was quite sure
that she did not understand, and she held her tongue, and smiled vaguely, and waited a moment
before she went on with her work.

Besides, she was not at all inclined to argue anything at present. She had been ill, and her
mother was worn out with taking care of her, and they had come to Amalfi to get quite well
and strong again in the air of the southern spring. They had settled themselves for a couple
of months in the queer hotel, which was once a monastery, perched high up under the still higher
overhanging rocks, far above the beach and the busy little town; and now, in the May afternoon,
they sat side by side under the trellis of vines on the terraced walk, their faces turned southward,
in the shade of the steep mountain behind them; the sea was blue at their feet, and quite still,
but farther out the westerly breeze that swept past the Conca combed it to crisp roughness;
then it was less blue to southward, and gradually it grew less real, till it lost colour and
melted into a sky-haze that almost hid the southern mountains and the lizard-like head of the
far Licosa.

A bit of coarse faded carpet lay upon the ground under the two ladies' feet, and the shady
air had a soft green tinge in it from the young vine-leaves overhead. At first sight one would
have said that both were delicate, if not ill. Both were fair, though in different degrees,
and both were pale and quiet, and looked a little weary.

The young girl sat in the deep straw chair, hatless, with bare white hands that held her work.
Her thick flaxen hair, straightly parted and smoothed away from its low growth on the forehead,
half hid small fresh ears, unpierced. Long lashes, too white for beauty, cast very faint light
shadows as she looked down; but when she raised the lids, the dark-blue eyes were bright, with
wide pupils and a straight look, quick to fasten, slow to let go, never yet quite softened,
and yet never mannishly hard. But, in its own way, perhaps, there is no look so hard as the
look of maiden innocence can be. There can even be something terrible in its unconscious stare.
There is the spirit of God's own fearful directness in it. Half quibbling with words perhaps,
but surely with half truth, one might say that youth "is," while all else "has been"; and that
youth alone possesses the present, too innocent to know it all, yet too selfish even to doubt
of what is its own--too sure of itself to doubt anything, to fear anything, or even truly to
pray for anything. There is no equality and no community in virtue; it is only original sin
that makes us all equal and human. Old Lucifer, fallen, crushed, and damned, knows the worth
of forgiveness--not young Michael, flintily hard and monumentally upright in his steel coat,
a terror to the devil himself. And youth can have something of that archangelic rigidity. Youth
is not yet quite human.

But there was much in Clare Bowring's face which told that she was to be quite human some day.
The lower features were not more than strong enough--the curved lips would be fuller before
long, the small nostrils, the gentle chin, were a little sharper than was natural, now, from
illness, but round in outline and not over prominent; and the slender throat was very delicate
and feminine. Only in the dark-blue eyes there was still that unabashed, quick glance and long-abiding
straightness, and innocent hardness, and the unconscious selfishness of the uncontaminated.

Standing on her feet, she would have seemed rather tall than short, though really but of average
height. Seated, she looked tall, and her glance was a little downward to most people's eyes.
Just now she was too thin, and seemed taller than she was. But the fresh light was already
in the young white skin, and there was a soft colour in the lobes of the little ears, as the
white leaves of daisies sometimes blush all round their tips.

The nervous white hands held the little bag lightly, and twined it and sewed it deftly, for
Clare was clever with her fingers. Possibly they looked even a little whiter than they were,
by contrast with the dark stuff of her dress, and illness had made them shrink at the lower
part, robbing them of their natural strength, though not of their grace. There is a sort of
refinement, not of taste, nor of talent, but of feeling and thought, and it shows itself in
the hands of those who have it, more than in any feature of the face, in a sort of very true
proportion between the hand and its fingers, between each finger and its joints, each joint
and each nail; a something which says that such a hand could not do anything ignoble, could
not take meanly, nor strike cowardly, nor press falsely; a quality of skin neither rough and
coarse, nor over smooth like satin, but cool and pleasant to the touch as fine silk that is
closely woven. The fingers of such hands are very straight and very elastic, but not supple
like young snakes, as some fingers are, and the cushion of the hand is not over full nor heavy,
nor yet shrunken and undeveloped as in the wasted hands of old Asiatic races.

In outward appearance there was that sort of inherited likeness between mother and daughter
which is apt to strike strangers more than persons of the same family. Mrs. Bowring had been
beautiful in her youth--far more beautiful than Clare--but her face had been weaker, in spite
of the regularity of the features and their faultless proportion. Life had given them an acquired
strength, but not of the lovely kind, and the complexion was faded, and the hair had darkened,
and the eyes had paled. Some faces are beautified by suffering. Mrs. Bowring's face was not
of that class. It was as though a thin, hard mask had been formed and closely moulded upon
it, as the action of the sea overlays some sorts of soft rock with a surface thin as paper
but as hard as granite. In spite of the hardness, the features were not really strong. There
was refinement in them, however, of the same kind which the daughter had, and as much, though
less pleasing. A fern--a spray of maiden's-hair--loses much of its beauty but none of its refinement
when petrified in limestone or made fossil in coal.

As they sat there, side by side, mother and daughter, where they had sat every day for a week
or more, they had very little to say. They had exhausted the recapitulation of Clare's illness,
during the first days of her convalescence. It was not the first time that they had been in
Amalfi, and they had enumerated its beauties to each other, and renewed their acquaintance
with it from a distance, looking down from the terrace upon the low-lying town, and the beach
and the painted boats, and the little crowd that swarmed out now and then like ants, very busy
and very much in a hurry, running hither and thither, disappearing presently as by magic, and
leaving the shore to the sun and the sea. The two had spoken of a little excursion to Ravello,
and they meant to go thither as soon as they should be strong enough; but that was not yet.
And meanwhile they lived through the quiet days, morning, meal times, evening, bed time, and
round again, through the little hotel's programme of possibility; eating what was offered them,
but feasting royally on air and sunshine and spring sweetness; moistening their lips in strange
southern wines, but drinking deep draughts of the rich southern air-life; watching the people
of all sorts and of many conditions, who came and stayed a day and went away again, but social
only in each other's lives, and even that by sympathy rather than in speech. A corner of life's
show was before them, and they kept their places on the vine-sheltered terrace and looked on.
But it seemed as though nothing could ever possibly happen there to affect the direction of
their own quietly moving existence.

Seeing that her daughter did not say anything in answer to the remark about the past being
written in a foreign language, Mrs. Bowring looked at the distant sky-haze thoughtfully for
a few moments, then opened her book again where her thin forefinger had kept the place, and
began to read. There was no disappointment in her face at not being understood, for she had
spoken almost to herself and had expected no reply. No change of expression softened or accentuated
the quiet hardness which overspread her naturally gentle face. But the thought was evidently
still present in her mind, for her attention did not fix itself upon her book, and presently
she looked at her daughter, as the latter bent her head over the little bag she was making.

The young girl felt her mother's eyes upon her, looked up herself, and smiled faintly, almost
mechanically, as before. It was a sort of habit they both had--a way of acknowledging one another's
presence in the world. But this time it seemed to Clare that there was a question in the look,
and after she had smiled she spoke.

"No," she said, "I don't understand how anybody can forget the past. It seems to me that I
shall always remember why I did things, said things, and thought things. I should, if I lived
a hundred years, I'm quite sure."

"Perhaps you have a better memory than I," answered Mrs. Bowring. "But I don't think it is
exactly a question of memory either. I can remember what I said, and did, and thought, well--twenty
years ago. But it seems to me very strange that I should have thought, and spoken, and acted,
just as I did. After all isn't it natural? They tell us that our bodies are quite changed in
less time than that."

"Yes--but the soul does not change," said Clare with conviction.

"The soul--"

Mrs. Bowring repeated the word, but said nothing more, and her still, blue eyes wandered from
her daughter's face and again fixed themselves on an imaginary point of the far southern distance.

"At least," said Clare, "I was always taught so."

She smiled again, rather coldly, as though admitting that such teaching might not be infallible
after all.

"It is best to believe it," said her mother quietly, but in a colourless voice. "Besides,"
she added, with a change of tone, "I do believe it, you know. One is always the same, in the
main things. It is the point of view that changes. The best picture in the world does not look
the same in every light, does it?"

"No, I suppose not. You may like it in one light and not in another, and in one place and not
in another."

"Or at one time of life, and not at another," added Mrs. Bowring, thoughtfully.

"I can't imagine that." Clare paused a moment. "Of course you are thinking of people," she
continued presently, with a little more animation. "One always means people, when one talks
in that way. And that is what I cannot quite understand. It seems to me that if I liked people
once I should always like them."

Her mother looked at her.

"Yes--perhaps you would," she said, and she relapsed into silence.

Clare's colour did not change. No particular person was in her thoughts, and she had, as it
were, given her own general and inexperienced opinion of her own character, quite honestly
and without affectation.

"I don't know which are the happier," said Mrs. Bowring at last, "the people who change, or
the people who can't."

"You mean faithful or unfaithful people, I suppose," observed the young girl with grave innocence.

A very slight flush rose in Mrs. Bowring's thin cheeks, and the quiet eyes grew suddenly hard,
but Clare was busy with her work again and did not see.

"Those are big words," said the older woman in a low voice.

"Well--yes--of course!" answered Clare. "So they ought to be! It is always the main question,
isn't it? Whether you can trust a person or not, I mean."

"That is one question. The other is, whether the person deserves to be trusted."

"Oh--it's the same thing!"

"Not exactly."

"You know what I mean, mother. Besides, I don't believe that any one who can't trust is really
to be trusted. Do you?"

"My dear Clare!" exclaimed Mrs. Bowring. "You can't put life into a nutshell, like that!"

"No. I suppose not, though if a thing is true at all it must be always true."

"Saving exceptions."

"Are there any exceptions to truth?" asked Clare incredulously. "Truth isn't grammar--nor the
British Constitution."

"No. But then, we don't know everything. What we call truth is what we know. It is only what
we know. All that we don't know, but which is, is true, too--especially, all that we don't
know about people with whom we have to live."

"Oh--if people have secrets!" The young girl laughed idly. "But you and I, for instance, mother--we
have no secrets from each other, have we? Well? Why should any two people who love each other
have secrets? And if they have none, why, then, they know all that there is to be known about
one another, and each trusts the other, and has a right to be trusted, because everything is
known--and everything is the whole truth. It seems to me that is simple enough, isn't it?"

Mrs. Bowring laughed in her turn. It was rather a hard little laugh, but Clare was used to
the sound of it, and joined in it, feeling that she had vanquished her mother in argument,
and settled one of the most important questions of life for ever.

"What a pretty steamer!" exclaimed Mrs. Bowring suddenly.

"It's a yacht," said Clare after a moment. "The flag is English, too. I can see it distinctly."

She laid down her work, and her mother closed her book upon her forefinger again, and they
watched the graceful white vessel as she glided slowly in from the Conca, which she had rounded
while they had been talking.

"It's very big, for a yacht," observed Mrs. Bowring. "They are coming here."

"They have probably come round from Naples to spend a day," said Clare. "We are sure to have
them up here. What a nuisance!"

"Yes. Everybody comes up here who comes to Amalfi at all. I hope they won't stay long."

"There is no fear of that," answered Clare. "I heard those people saying the other day that
this is not a place where a vessel can lie any length of time. You know how the sea sometimes
breaks on the beach."

Mrs. Bowring and her daughter desired of all things to be quiet. The visitors who came, stayed
a few days at the hotel, and went away again, were as a rule tourists or semi-invalids in search
of a climate, and anything but noisy. But people coming in a smart English yacht would probably
be society people, and as such Mrs. Bowring wished that they would keep away. They would behave
as though the place belonged to them, so long as they remained; they would get all the attention
of the proprietor and of the servants for the time being; and they would make everybody feel
shabby and poor.

The Bowrings were poor, indeed, but they were not shabby. It was perhaps because they were
well aware that nobody could mistake them for average tourists that they resented the coming
of a party which belonged to what is called society. Mrs. Bowring had a strong aversion to
making new acquaintances, and even disliked being thrown into the proximity of people who might
know friends of hers, who might have heard of her, and who might talk about her and her daughter.
Clare said that her mother's shyness in this respect was almost morbid; but she had unconsciously
caught a little of it herself, and, like her mother, she was often quite uselessly on her guard
against strangers, of the kind whom she might possibly be called upon to know, though she was
perfectly affable and at her ease with those whom she looked upon as undoubtedly her social
inferiors.

They were not mistaken in their prediction that the party from the yacht would come up to the
Cappuccini. Half an hour after the yacht had dropped anchor the terrace was invaded. They came
up in twos and threes, nearly a dozen of them, men and women, smart-looking people with healthy,
sun-burnt faces, voices loud from the sea as voices become on a long voyage--or else very low
indeed. By contrast with the frequenters of Amalfi they all seemed to wear overpoweringly good
clothes and perfectly new hats and caps, and their russet shoes were resplendent. They moved
as though everything belonged to them, from the wild crests of the hills above to the calm
blue water below, and the hotel servants did their best to foster the agreeable illusion. They
all wanted chairs, and tables, and things to drink, and fruit. One very fair little lady with
hard, restless eyes, and clad in white serge, insisted upon having grapes, and no one could
convince her that grapes were not ripe in May.

"It's quite absurd!" she objected. "Of course they're ripe! We had the most beautiful grapes
at breakfast at Leo Cairngorm's the other day, so of course they must have them here. Brook!
Do tell the man not to be absurd!"

"Man!" said the member of the party she had last addressed. "Do not be absurd!"

"Sì, Signore," replied the black-whiskered Amalfitan servant with alacrity.

"You see!" cried the little lady triumphantly. "I told you so! You must insist with these people.
You can always get what you want. Brook, where's my fan?"

She settled upon a straw chair--like a white butterfly. The others walked on towards the end
of the terrace, but the young man whom she called Brook stood beside her, slowly lighting a
cigarette, not five paces from Mrs. Bowring and Clare.

"I'm sure I don't know where your fan is," he said, with a short laugh, as he threw the end
of the match over the wall.

"Well then, look for it!" she answered, rather sharply. "I'm awfully hot, and I want it."

He glanced at her before he spoke again.

"I don't know where it is," he said quietly, but there was a shade of annoyance in his face.

"I gave it to you just as we were getting into the boat," answered the lady in white. "Do you
mean to say that you left it on board?"

"I think you must be mistaken," said the young man. "You must have given it to somebody else."

"It isn't likely that I should mistake you for any one else--especially to-day."

"Well--I haven't got it. I'll get you one in the hotel, if you'll have patience for a moment."

He turned and strode along the terrace towards the house. Clare Bowring had been watching the
two, and she looked after the man as he moved rapidly away. He walked well, for he was a singularly
well-made young fellow, who looked as though he were master of every inch of himself. She had
liked his brown face and bright blue eyes, too, and somehow she resented the way in which the
little lady ordered him about. She looked round and saw that her mother was watching him too.
Then, as he disappeared, they both looked at the lady. She too had followed him with her eyes,
and as she turned her face sideways to the Bowrings Clare thought that she was biting her lip,
as though something annoyed her or hurt her. She kept her eyes on the door. Presently the young
man reappeared, bearing a palm-leaf fan in his hand and blowing a cloud of cigarette smoke
into the air. Instantly the lady smiled, and the smile brightened as he came near.

"Thank you--dear," she said as he gave her the fan.

The last word was spoken in a lower tone, and could certainly not have been heard by the other
members of the party, but it reached Clare's ears, where she sat.

"Not at all," answered the young man quietly.

But as he spoke he glanced quickly about him, and his eyes met Clare's. She fancied that she
saw a look of startled annoyance in them, and he coloured a little under his tan. He had a
very manly face, square and strong. He bent down a little and said something in a low voice.
The lady in white half turned her head, impatiently, but did not look quite round. Clare saw,
however, that her expression had changed again, and that the smile was gone.

"If I don't care, why should you?" were the next words Clare heard, spoken impatiently and
petulantly.

The man who answered to the name of Brook said nothing, but sat down on the parapet of the
terrace, looking out over his shoulder to seaward. A few seconds later he threw away his half-smoked
cigarette.

"I like this place," said the lady in white, quite audibly. "I think I shall send on board
for my things and stay here."

The young man started as though he had been struck, and faced her in silence. He could not
help seeing Clare Bowring beyond her.

"I'm going indoors, mother," said the young girl, rising rather abruptly. "I'm sure it must
be time for tea. Won't you come too?"

The young man did not answer his companion's remark, but turned his face away again and looked
seaward, listening to the retreating footsteps of the two ladies.

On the threshold of the hotel Clare felt a strong desire to look back again and see whether
he had moved, but she was ashamed of it and went in, holding her head high and looking straight
before her.

CHAPTER II

The people from the yacht belonged to that class of men and women whose uncertainty, or indifference,
about the future leads them to take possession of all they can lay hands on in the present,
with a view to squeezing the world like a lemon for such enjoyment as it may yield. So long
as they tarried at the old hotel, it was their private property. The Bowrings were forgotten;
the two English old maids had no existence; the Russian invalid got no more hot water for his
tea; the plain but obstinately inquiring German family could get no more information; even
the quiet young French couple--a honeymoon couple--sank into insignificance. The only protest
came from an American, whose wife was ill and never appeared, and who staggered the landlord
by asking what he would sell the whole place for on condition of vacating the premises before
dinner.

"They will be gone before dinner," the proprietor answered.

But they did not go. When it was already late somebody saw the moon rise, almost full, and
suggested that the moonlight would be very fine, and that it would be amusing to dine at the
hotel table and spend the evening on the terrace and go on board late.

"I shall," said the little lady in white serge, "whatever the rest of you do. Brook! Send somebody
on board to get a lot of cloaks and shawls and things. I am sure it is going to be cold. Don't
go away! I want you to take me for a walk before dinner, so as to be nice and hungry, you know."

For some reason or other, several of the party laughed, and from their tone one might have
guessed that they were in the habit of laughing, or were expected to laugh, at the lady's speeches.
And every one agreed that it would be much nicer to spend the evening on the terrace, and that
it was a pity that they could not dine out of doors because it would be far too cool. Then
the lady in white and the man called Brook began to walk furiously up and down in the fading
light, while the lady talked very fast in a low voice, except when she was passing within earshot
of some of the others, and the man looked straight before him, answering occasionally in monosyllables.

Then there was more confusion in the hotel, and the Russian invalid expressed his opinion to
the two English old maids, with whom he fraternised, that dinner would be an hour late, thanks
to their compatriots. But they assumed an expression appropriate when speaking of the peerage,
and whispered that the yacht must belong to the Duke of Orkney, who, they had read, was cruising
in the Mediterranean, and that the Duke was probably the big man in grey clothes who had a
gold cigarette case. But in all this they were quite mistaken. And their repeated examinations
of the hotel register were altogether fruitless, because none of the party had written their
names in it. It was the theft of a church and a stabbing the poor clerk
who tried to prevent ... Two birds of the gang had already fallen into the trap, and are looking
to the third, the captain of her, married the famous baratijero Tablanca ... and three or four parishes
of Spain and the Indies, according to their background was process.

With this coup was shocked the neighborhood, took Don Celso hands to the head, and aged Fifteen
years suddenly poor Facia.

The rogue was heard only fugitive who walked by the republics of America,
recently escaped from Spain and was given up for dead many years ago
or dragging a chain.

Shortly after being abandoned, sad and sorry the hapless Facia, picked it up again Don Celso
by love of God, and love of God is also not said a word since then that relates even remotely
close to his madness or his misfortune, and his hand was growing Tona girl, ignoring the real
reasons for the sadness and bitterness of her mother, and living in the belief that his father had been
a good man who, like many others, had gone to "the other side" to
improve your fortune, and that she had died without succeeding, after
year.

Such is the substance of what he told me Chisco. This could be explained only on arrechucho that of
Facia, and also could not explain, of all kinds, the case even after
known the history of the gray woman, who was interesting, was not
to get into unscrupulous inquiries, and I went.

VII

With two guides so complacent and so experts like mine, soon met the main paths, ravines and
gorges, wildlife and flora of the mountains nearest the contour; I lost the fear I instilled
the "hints" or discovered along the cliffs, being be noted that there is no way small or large
is not a hint continued, and gained the ease and strength of my legs lacked the same principle to
support me on uphill slopes than down, ie if he was, because it is the absolute truth in the saying
instead, that in this craggy region there is no other plain the room of Don Celso. No climbed
to great heights, because it shows me much tempting of that caste, nor did my rough guide to
great lengths to encourage me to overcome the inclinations of my complexion relatively lazy, but
why not let meet my little curiosity in the contemplation of beautiful scenery. Finally, I
also met major ports in winter and summer, which send their cattle in the valleys surrounding,
and admired the freshness of those brañas ("flocks") in tight, thin grass, real big bald in
the middle of dense forests and vegetation powerful. Each These plaques are, in the ports of summer,
a hut, and the other a 'winter' hut to shelter people who herd cattle, and the winter, building
large and robust of lime and stone, barn and stables for a good herd of cattle. Usually, each
winter correspond to the cattles of eight or ten co-owners of "hazas" or contiguous parts of the
brane. Some of these winter were already occupied. At night the cattle eat pinned to the manger,
of "priming" the barn, mowed in August hazas, pasta day outdoors, while time consent, the care
of their owners, who after leaving gathered at dusk down to sleep in the village, unlike in summer,
during which they sleep huddled in the hut, leaving the cabin "acurriada", ie, the flock gathered
around it. The stud are more independent and free, and stood, wild state, where less we thought.

Pete was very rough, and it happened more than once I go very careless and feel my back a ferocious
roar that made me make two turns in the air. It was the shotgun's gaznápiro: a escopetón older
and patched the jokes, he had made one of hers. Pito not tired to tell anyone or taking the
slightest precaution when a part is put throw, ie, as he peered, both in the air than for Matos,
who through the mountains is over, because for a weapon the size of yours and the stuck shrapnel
that had not far and fences: it threw in the face, and above of my shoulder or between the
legs of Chisco, as requested by the situation of things and people, without getting tired of
saying 'there goes that', "puuunnn!" It was like the end of world: the mountains tremble,
and the piece was not only dead, but in tatters, because He did not lose once, or a single grain
piece of shrapnel escopetón.

And the piece was a hare, a fox, a bobcat, a "Aeschylus" (squirrel), a pheasant or a vermin of
regular size, it is very noticeable that in this and other similar strains are animals he encounters
one going for a walk, even for sites nearest to the people clothing as elsewhere in the world,
is not it, with the domestic cat, loving dog or poultry.

Chisco behaved very differently than his comrade: everything was unchanged in most at least that
its placidity of the continent. If I put a piece shot with a hand me stopped smoothly, with
the other pointed to me, and with an expressive gesture or half word I implied that was down
to me. If I wandered the coup, as was almost always, he'd he amended, if not anticipated the
shotgun from where less could Chorcos wait, and I noticed in the first case, some malicious pleasure
in the look me directed, while kicking the victim on the floor or down from the sky tumbling
as if to say: "Nah, you how not val Vey a pitu that shotgun, to be as nice as it is?" But Chisco
are greatly mistaken, because the weapon was excellent, and very decent ammunition it. What
failed was the hunter, that being so clever as I was in the shooting White did not know where they
walked when they had to throw on the run or the flight. The case is that this stupidity came
to spite me, and contributed much to it, rather than looks Chisco syrupy, the brutal laughter
that solemnized Chorcos each amendment was their grungy espingardón the failures of my gun.
And so I arrived in mortification, having put my five senses in this business, I got soon, if
not the skill of my companions, to behave in a way, other than "amendable" by none I missed shots.
This cessation of smiles and laughter of a another, and I felt I downloaded the mind of a great
weight, because that weaknesses are strung together of life, and has never been told the truth
as the pompous Don Hermogenes: "There is little or much at all. "

Twice accompanied us on these expeditions, exploration and mixed game, the priest Don Sabas,
but no weapon that pinto club that served as a cane.

Was it something like gunpowder decline in spending in those bursts of pure pleasure, and
called them "creatures of God" those who were in the magnitude scale, from wild boar and deer
down. But how knew the full scale complete and true, and those mountains and other such, and
how respect he heard the two men, as hunters, both are growing at my side, and how happy I listened
and I watched him this way ... and many others, for those without eyes or the rough ears of
Chisco witted and his comrade!

Because it's true that this word hombrazo so dull and so poor in resources
in the party My uncle, a bit more pleasant and loose officiating in
the church where he spoke from the altar more fairly to the case and
the extent of understanding of his rustic parishioners, in the heights
of the mountain did not seem to himself.

It was under him, to be much, the interest to know in a few colorful phrases and the news I asked,
not to satisfy I supplied the Chisco and his partner, about the great beasts in their hideouts
in those mountains and how to catch them, trouble sets in which they had seen him and As this was
related to near and far, their descriptions of journeys made by this or that port during an unbridled
"cellerisca" their risk of death among these snowdrifts, sometimes at fault and clinging to
life itself, and most of them for love that of others: the rest was, for me, the way they "fall"
on the mountain, like a statue master in its own right pedestal; that their way of enjoying
the nature that surrounded, swelling it by smell, by sight and even every pore his body, so after
this surfeit, was reading me aloud as he passed his eyes through the pages of this immense
book so close and in Greek to me, the ease that was within the rough simplicity of their language,
the right word, the picturesque touch, note exact box needed to be well observed and well meaning,
the role played in this work of true artist, his painting club, stressing in air and the end
of the arm extended, the force of words, the folding of the humble cassock, gently moved by
the continuous air blowing from the heights, the head erect, eyes sparkling, his hat down
over his neck, correctness and elegance, in short, all lines of this living sculpture ... Oh!
diéranle the poor priest in plain land in the open valley, in the city, a miter, the papal tiara
in the capital the Christian world, and would give them death: breathing at will, to live at
ease, to know God, to feel in all its immensity, to worship and Don Sabas serve as served and
worshiped him, he needed the continued spectacle of those grand altar of that wilderness, rugged
and lonely, with their peaks vanished so often in the clouds that blended with the sky.

None of this, how beautiful it was and so was the view, read or estimate the two monsoon how
deep respect for Don Sabas had only become a priest of the parish and man of unquestionable
competence as soon as they reached them.

My temper, in the scale of the sensible, not even reached the level of the innumerable as for "feel
natural" need to see reproduced on canvas and embellished by fantasy the painter and resources of the
palette, and yet, I read something I had never read in nature every
time I looked in the light of the impressions of Don Sabas perched
on the tops of the mountains.

And it was much appreciated and even admired for me this miracle cure Tablanca poor; miracle that
had never been to me no pictures, no books or speeches.

On the last occasion for those coming home the two, I surrendered, and hastily, and it so fresh
and so lively as if it had not left the place, told me he had seen everything me until then it was
like to see nothing and had to do something that I had promised.

- What you want when you want - I answered trembling, for its commitment to acquiring with
the man for whom gambling excursions were a thing to me out of joint.

- Well, my account is the case - he replied - and there is no more to say.

VIII

My visits to the village thorough examination alone and I made my
own, leaving appear in it as the careless, to surprise the best in
their intimacy.

Knowing "Sight" to your neighborhood at Mass the previous Sunday,
I had noticed very strongly monotonous uniformity "cut", so to speak,
and even clothing.

All the boys used the 'lastic' red and green all the old, and all
women had the "blanket" or similar color shawl and similarly crossed
over his chest and kidneys; everywhere and all kinds abounded blond
and the curved line, not without grace, with a tendency the square
to the shoulders, everyone walked, talked and moved with the same
calm, and in all faces, old and young, you could see the same expression
of goodness in some tinge of fright, as if the continuing vision of
the great masses in whose shadow they live those people, the had frightened
and suspense.

I did not have one iota to rectify these impressions, received at a glance that the whole neighborhood,
when I tried studied in further detail on the contrary, resultóme that the monotony of their
way and clothing to be well confirmed by, had to add another monotony less salient by the way:
that of their rooms. All Tablanca houses, with very rare exceptions, I found the same plane built
by: the ground floor, for livestock stables sheep and goats, on the floor, family room and the
kitchen ceiling without the roof, and above the loft, bounded by a vertical board on the edge corresponding
to kitchen, forming with the three remaining walls what might be called "smoke box." Outdoor
accessory to a block and a cattle barn, and stuck to her or the house, an orchard very small.

Just as in the kitchen of my uncle spoke all over the place for young and old, old and young. As a
characteristic of that language, such as jacks and Hs oes as esu end gratia "jermosu" and "jormigueru"
with beautiful mound. But as so melodic and rhythmic cadence is giving the sentence, which
are not the rough a word is unpleasant to the ear: on the contrary, and have expressions and idioms
of taste so signally classic, that this and the rhythmic chant that accompany them, listening a
conversation between those mountaineers, came to my mind the "music" of our old romances.

It is also very noteworthy that none of these peculiarities in the way of being and expression, undergoes
alteration visible by changing places or customs. It's very common there to migrate during the
summer the men servants to the provinces as distant as those of Aragon to hold the office of sawing
wood, or those of Castile, or work implements chestnuts, to exchange for wheat or cash. I spoke
with these men, newcomers the valley after many months away from
him, and did not find the slightest difference that distinguished
in dress or speech, or how to conduct themselves at all, its other
neighbors; nor have I found after looking for her to try, very noticeable
signs that interest them outside their homes, rather than the issue
that brings them, as if they only had eyes heart to see and feel the
native homeland.

The race is as healthy and beautiful I have ever known in Spain, and I think they are a prominent
part it continued fitness of the mountain, the abundance of milk and the integrity of customs
public and domestic. I learned with astonishment that there was no place in a tavern, and that
Property of the City, who sold the recipe and came to almost every consumer I drink at home,
from where it was, by force of habit, which was very poorly regarded the man who showed instincts'
bartenders, "and much worse that was carried away from them, albeit
rarely.

Not so stunned me the news that there was scarce a lot of money, to be a common lineage shortage
everywhere, but I thought it was of note that of which, however, were common fruits of the
earth, as among primitive peoples; and so it is important that services are paid with a half
dozen or panicles a miller chestnut. What is not in that valley are potatoes, but instead, abundant
harvest of promise in the valley of my paternal grandmother and upstream Nansa, where there is no
maize, which is the main crop Tablanca, so these two valleys, separated by four hours away at a good
walk, are in frequent treatment to change those important fruits of the earth.

Almost all men are Abarquero Tablanca, some of which, while being farmers, industries that make
a trade.

They camp in the summer, in the bush in teams of eight to ten, cut wood, prepared in the rough sandals
pairs, and so them down to the village, where, after it cured, they concluded just a little. In this
task I found some of them occupied, and seeing me enthralled narrow adze handle overalls and
long shear, or removed by curette curly chips from deep and intricate the Almadreña, or "painting",
the tune and, at knifepoint on artificial patina dried colostrum fire. Others are more carpenters,
and also collects and prepared in the bush timber stands and "canes" (poles) of horses, or farm
implements which are then refined and topped down.

Another peculiarity of those people buried among the highest mountains of the Andes: called "the
Mountain" to the flat land in the valleys of the coast, and "mountain" to its inhabitants.

One of the first people I got "the talk" on that occasion, was a man that was very original.
I found him picking edges of the floor and closing the gap with them a 'morio' which had collapsed
there. He worked with great deliberation, and was pushing a lot, without removing the pipe from
his mouth, every effort he made, because it was old.

He greeted me very smiling at me beside him, and I even called my name, "Don Marcelo."

Enough my quality of "sir" and a stranger to earn those honors a person of Tablanca, where are
all the same courtesy, but I was also nephew of Don Celso, son "of the late Don Juan Antonio"
blood Bejos Ruiz, of the noble substance of Tablanca, the "house" "...», going up there, the Pharaohs
of there, something indisputable, prestigious and respected per se and as of divine right,
but not the authoritarian manner despotic feudal traditions, but to the patriarchal and llanota
of biblical times.

No wonder, then, should not miss me, view things from this side, the
warm welcome I excused the man morio.

Was "amañandu aqueyu" because he was in face view "in Abertal." Finances were not his, 'As I could
understand, "nor the land nor any fence, but had seen a day removed the first song of the middle,
then two of the "apareaos" with him, and then "other of arrimaus to eyus "and finally, he had said,"
to the first celleriscas to come, or the first response to jocique up a little lick pa verdinis
Estus is the moriu esborrega around here. " And so it happened.

Three days was the open gap without being seen by the owner farm and a further four 'Pedric
"he fruitlessly for him to take up before it biting beasts to that gate and ended up with the "poverty"
of the fence ... until passing the "moriu" weeks in that state "bichornosu 'he had resolved
to close the gap. Why was this "one", and I could not help it. Not in all cases less than that the
interest that was taken by the alien, but she always gave in his face and got into big care
carelessness of others. I knew him when I had come to Tablanca and
life I had done since then.

She loved me attached to the land and the house of my grandparents. Chisco was a good companion to
walk where I walked with him Pito also Salces, but not as "amañau"
as the other "pa the AUTU of rozasi with finus gentlemen."

If Chisco out of Tablanca as was Robacio, there is nothing to ask. Still yet, faithful, honest
and serving workers as it was and where he served, no parent of that place was in "josticia of law
", close the door of his house. Then there were those who, if not properly closed, either is the
opening of goodwill. Topics men. The girl was nice, and some goods had inherit in their day, but
was not "to each Callejues regolver" a good man flow was a "per with himself." Well she knew
him, so looking at Chisco with good eyes, but it was a very different looking from his father,
and he understood. The mother was on the road different than her husband, and snuggled closer
to those of the daughter ... In addition and settlement, and what Don Celso fix, if the thing was
good for everyone. But what "amejao" my father I found it! She had known him a little more than "mozucu"
because Don John Antonio I would, if alive, at the foot of ten years. He had left the place
without having Hair beard yet, then again, "mozallón arroganti Jechu a" but "come out here
and Aya, as he says otru that. " "We pulled it mundanu Muchu Jacia had big bucks apañau through
the land of God and the woman who waited to marry him. Had become to be alone "the mayoralgu"
he never wanted to destroy out of Tablanca. "Although it was not mujeriegu of by suyu ", loneliness
and other penalties had been forced to marry well. Married Well, that yes, "Lifetime Bejo Rock!"
with the best of Caórnica, home of the Pine: Dona Candida Sanchez del Pinar. It seemed I was
seeing, so arrogantona and so ... and then involved with their softness ... But God had not wanted
things happen from there, and today a son, and tomorrow another, had been the three who had been
taking, and finally it worth a Potosi pure gold, and with it the light and joy of the house,
which fenecería "Tomorrow or the otru" with the poor Don Celso, who had been about to die. And
deceased Ruiz de Bejos latter, and in closing the house or moving to unknown owners, what Tablanca
would not live for his, no one came over in the valley as old as the same river that crossed?
So he was glad both of my coming. Permission might well be of God. Because if I take attachment
to the land, what better owner for the house, no more pompous Lord for the entire valley,
when Don Celso missing?


"I could not help wondering about them this afternoon," said Mrs. Bowring. "She ordered him
about in a most extraordinary way, as though he had been her servant. I thought it in very
bad taste, to say the least of it. Of course I don't know anything about their relations, but
it struck me that she wished to show him off, as her possession."

"Yes," answered Clare, thoughtfully. "I thought so too."

"Very foolish of her! No man will stand that sort of thing long. That isn't the way to treat
a man in order to keep him."

"What is the best way?" asked the young girl idly, with a little laugh.

"Don't ask me!" answered Mrs. Bowring quickly, as they turned in their walk. "But I should
think--" she added, a moment later, "I don't know--but I should think--" she hesitated.

"What?" inquired Clare, with some curiosity.

"Well, I was going to say, I should think that a man would wish to feel that he is holding,
not that he is held. But then people are so different! One can never tell. At all events, it
is foolish to wish to show everybody that you own a man, so to say."

Mrs. Bowring seemed to be considering the question, but she evidently found nothing more to
say about it, and they walked up and down in silence for a long time, each occupied with her
own thoughts. Then all at once there was a sound of many voices speaking English, and trying
to give orders in Italian, and the words "Good-bye, Brook!" sounded several times above the
rest. Little by little, all grew still again.

"They are gone at last," said Mrs. Bowring, with a sigh of relief.

CHAPTER III

Clare Bowring went to her room that night feeling as though she had been at the theatre. She
could not get rid of the impression made upon her by the scene she had witnessed, and over
and over again, as she lay awake, with the moonbeams streaming into her room, she went over
all she had seen and heard on the platform. It had, at least, been very like the theatre. The
broad, flat stage, the somewhat conventionally picturesque buildings, the strip of far-off
sea, as flat as a band of paint, the unnaturally bright moonlight, the two chief figures going
through a love quarrel in the foreground, and she herself calmly seated in the shadow, as in
the darkened amphitheatre, and looking on unseen and unnoticed.

But the two people had not talked at all as people talked on the stage in any piece Clare had
ever seen. What would have been the "points" in a play had all been left out, and instead there
had been abrupt pauses and awkward silences, and then, at what should have been the supreme
moment, the lady in white had asked for a cigarette. And the two hasty little kisses that had
a sort of perfunctory air, and the queer, jerky "good-byes," and the last stop near the door
of the hotel--it all had an air of being very badly done. It could not have been a success
on the stage, Clare thought.

And yet this was a bit of life, of the real, genuine life of two people who had been in love,
and perhaps were in love still, though they might not know it. She had been present at what
must, in her view, have been a great crisis in two lives. Such things, she thought, could not
happen more than once in a lifetime--twice, perhaps. Her mother had been married twice, so
Clare admitted a second possibility. But not more than that.

The situation, too, as she reviewed it, was nothing short of romantic. Here was a young man
who had evidently been making love to a married woman, and who had made her believe that he
loved her, and had made her love him too. Clare remembered the desperate little sob, and the
handkerchief twice pressed to the pale lips. The woman was married, and yet she actually loved
the man enough to think of divorcing her husband in order to marry him. Then, just when she
was ready, he had turned and told her in the most heartless way that it had been all play,
and that he would not marry her under any circumstances. It seemed monstrous to the innocent
girl that they should even have spoken of marriage, until the divorce was accomplished. Then,
of course, it would have been all right. Clare had been brought up with modern ideas about
divorce in general, as being a fair and just thing in certain circumstances. She had learned
that it could not be right to let an innocent woman suffer all her life because she had married
a brute by mistake. Doubtless that was Lady Fan's case. But she should have got her divorce
first, and then she might have talked of marriage afterwards. It was very wrong of her.

But Lady Fan's thoughtlessness--or wickedness, as Clare thought she ought to call it--sank
into insignificance before the cynical heartlessness of the man. It was impossible ever to
forget the cool way in which he had said she ought not to take it so tragically, because it
was not worth it. Yet he had admitted that he had promised to marry her if she got a divorce.
He had made love to her, there on the Acropolis, at sunset, as she had said. He even granted
that he might have believed himself in earnest for a few moments. And now he told her that
he was sorry, but that "it would not do." It had evidently been all his fault, for he had found
nothing with which to reproach her. If there had been anything, Clare thought, he would have
brought it up in self-defence. She could not suspect that he would almost rather have married
Lady Fan, and ruined his life, than have done that. Innocence cannot even guess at sin's code
of honour--though sometimes it would be in evil case without it. Brook had probably broken
Lady Fan's heart that night, thought the young girl, though Lady Fan had said with such a bitter,
crying laugh that they were not children and that their hearts could not break.

And it all seemed very unreal, as she looked back upon it. The situation was certainly romantic,
but the words had been poor beyond her imagination, and the actors had halted in their parts,
as at a first rehearsal.

Then Clare reflected that of course neither of them had ever been in such a situation before,
and that, if they were not naturally eloquent, it was not surprising that they should have
expressed themselves in short, jerky sentences. But that was only an excuse she made to herself
to account for the apparent unreality of it all. She turned her cheek to a cool end of the
pillow and tried to go to sleep.

She tried to bring back the white dreams she had dreamt when she had sat alone in the shadow
before the other two had come out to quarrel. She did her best to bring back that vague, soft
joy of yearning for something beautiful and unknown. She tried to drop the silver veil of fancy-threads
woven by the May moon between her and the world. But it would not come. Instead of it, she
saw the flat platform, the man and woman standing in the unnatural brightness, and the woman's
desperate little face when he had told her that she had never loved him. The dream was not
white any more.

So that was life. That was reality. That was the way men treated women. She thought she began
to understand what faithlessness and unfaithfulness meant. She had seen an unfaithful man,
and had heard him telling the woman he had made love him that he never could love her any more.
That was real life.

Clare's heart went out to the little lady in white. By this time she was alone in her cabin,
and her pillow was wet with tears. Brook doubtless was calmly asleep, unless he were drinking
or doing some of those vaguely wicked things which, in the imagination of very simple young
girls, fill up the hours of fast men, and help sometimes to make those very men "interesting."
But after what she had seen Clare felt that Brook could never interest her under imaginable
circumstances. He was simply a "brute," as the lady in white had told him, and Clare wished
that some woman could make him suffer for his sins and expiate the misdeeds which had made
that little face so desperate and that short laugh so bitter.

She wished, though she hardly knew it, that she had done anything rather than have sat there
in the shadow, all through the scene. She had lost something that night which it would be hard
indeed to find again. There was a big jagged rent in the drop-curtain of illusions before her
life-stage, and through it she saw things that troubled her and would not be forgotten.

She had no memory of her own of which the vivid brightness or the intimate sadness could diminish
the force of this new impression. Possibly, she was of the kind that do not easily fall in
love, for she had met during the past two years more than one man whom many a girl of her age
and bringing up might have fancied. Some of them might have fallen in love with her, if she
had allowed them, or if she had felt the least spark of interest in them and had shown it.
But she had not. Her manner was cold and over-dignified for her years, and she had very little
vanity together with much pride--too much of the latter, perhaps, to be ever what is called
popular. For "popular" persons are generally those who wish to be such; and pride and the love
of popularity are at opposite poles of the character-world. Proud characters set love high
and their own love higher, while a vain woman will risk her heart for a compliment, and her
reputation for the sake of having a lion in her leash, if only for a day. Clare Bowring had
not yet been near to loving, and she had nothing of her own to contrast with this experience
in which she had been a mere spectator. It at once took the aspect of a generality. This man
and this woman were probably not unlike most men and women, if the truth were known, she thought.
And she had seen the real truth, as few people could ever have seen it--the supreme crisis
of a love-affair going on before her very eyes, in her hearing, at her feet, the actors having
no suspicion of her presence. It was, perhaps, the certainty that she could not misinterpret
it all which most disgusted her, and wounded something in her which she had never defined,
but which was really a sort of belief that love must always carry with it something beautiful,
whether joyous, or tender, or tragic. Of that, there had been nothing in what she had seen.
Only the woman's face came back to her, and hurt her, and she felt her own heart go out to
poor Lady Fan, while it hardened against Brook with an exaggerated hatred, as though he had
insulted and injured all living women.

It was probable that she was to see this man during several days to come. The idea struck her
when she was almost asleep, and it waked her again, with a start. It was quite certain that
he had stayed behind, when the others had gone down to the yacht, for she had heard the voices
calling out "Good-bye, Brook!" Besides he had said repeatedly to the lady in white that he
must stay. He was expecting his people. It was quite certain that Clare must see him during
the next day or two. It was not impossible that he might try to make her mother's acquaintance
and her own. The idea was intensely disagreeable to her. In the first place, she hated him
beforehand for what he had done, and, secondly, she had once heard his secret. It was one thing,
so long as he was a total stranger. It would be quite another, if she should come to know him.
She had a vague thought of pretending to be ill, and staying in her room as long as he remained
in the place. But in that case she should have to explain matters to her mother. She should
not like to do that. The thought of the difficulty disturbed her a little while longer. Then,
at last, she fell asleep, tired with what she had felt, and seen, and heard.

The yacht sailed before daybreak, and in the morning the little hotel had returned to its normal
state of peace. The early sun blazed upon the white walls above, and upon the half-moon, beach
below, and shot straight into the recess in the rocks where Clare had sat by the old black
cross in the dark. The level beams ran through her room, too, for it faced south-east, looking
across the gulf; and when she went to the window and stood in the sunshine, her flaxen hair
looked almost white, and the good southern warmth brought soft colour to the northern girl's
cheeks. She was like a thin, fair angel, standing there on the high balcony, looking to seaward
in the calm air. That, at least, was what a fisherman from Praiano thought, as he turned his
hawk-eyes upwards, standing to his oars and paddling slowly along, top-heavy in his tiny boat.
But no native of Amalfi ever mistook a foreigner for an angel.

Everything was quiet and peaceful again, and there seemed to be neither trace nor memory of
the preceding day's invasion. The English old maids were early at their window, and saw with
disappointment that the yacht was gone. They were never to know whether the big man with the
gold cigarette case had been the Duke of Orkney or not. But order was restored, and they got
their tea and toast without difficulty. The Russian invalid was slicing a lemon into his cup
on the vine-sheltered terrace, and the German family, having slept on the question of the Pope
and Bismarck, were ruddy with morning energy, and were making an early start for a place in
the hills where the Professor had heard that there was an inscription of the ninth century.

The young girl stood still on her balcony, happily dazed for a few moments by the strong sunshine
and the clear air. It is probably the sensation enjoyed for hours together by a dog basking
in the sun, but with most human beings it does not last long--the sun is soon too hot for the
head, or too bright for the eyes, or there is a draught, or the flies disturb one. Man is not
capable of as much physical enjoyment as the other animals, though perhaps his enjoyment is
keener during the first moments. Then comes thought, restlessness, discontent, change, effort,
and progress, and the history of man's superiority is the journal of his pain.

For a little while, Clare stood blinking in the sunshine, smitten into a pleasant semi-consciousness
by the strong nature around her. Then she thought of Brook and the lady in white, and of all
she had been a witness of in the evening, and the colour of things changed a little, and she
turned away and went between the little white and red curtains into her room again. Life was
certainly not the same since she had heard and seen what a man and a woman could say and be.
There were certain new impressions, where there had been no impression at all, but only a maiden
readiness to receive the beautiful. What had come was not beautiful, by any means, and the
thought of it darkened the air a little, so that the day was not to be what it might have been.
She realised how she was affected, and grew impatient with herself. After all, it would be
the easiest thing in the world to avoid the man, even if he stayed some time. Her mother was
not much given to making acquaintance with strangers.

And it would have been easy enough, if the man himself had taken the same view. He, however,
had watched the Bowrings on the preceding evening, and had made up his mind that they were
"human beings," as he put it; that is to say, that they belonged to his own class, whereas
none of the people at the upper end of the table had any claim to be counted with the social
blessed. He was young, and though he knew how to amuse himself alone, and had all manner of
manly tastes and inclinations, he preferred pleasant society to solitude, and his experience
told him that the society of the Bowrings would in all probability be pleasant. He therefore
determined that he would try to know them at once, and the determination had already been formed
in his mind when he had run after Clare to give her the shawl she had dropped.

He got up rather late, and promptly marched out upon the terrace under the vines, smoking a
briar-root pipe with that solemn air whereby the Englishman abroad proclaims to the world that
he owns the scenery. There is something almost phenomenal about an Englishman's solid self-satisfaction
when he is alone with his pipe. Every nation has its own way of smoking. There is a hasty and
vicious manner about the Frenchman's little cigarette of pungent black tobacco; the Italian
dreams over his rat-tail cigar; the American either eats half of his Havana while he smokes
the other, or else he takes a frivolous delight in smoking delicately and keeping the white
ash whole to the end; the German surrounds himself with a cloud, and, god-like, meditates within
it; there is a sacrificial air about the Asiatic's narghileh, as the thin spire rises steadily
and spreads above his head; but the Englishman's short briar-root pipe has a powerful individuality
of its own. Its simplicity is Gothic, its solidity is of the Stone Age, he smokes it in the
face of the higher civilisation, and it is the badge of the conqueror. A man who asserts that
he has a right to smoke a pipe anywhere, practically asserts that he has a right to everything.
And it will be admitted that Englishmen get a good deal.

Moreover, as soon as the Englishman has finished smoking he generally goes and does something
else. Brook knocked the ashes out of his pipe, and immediately went in search of the head waiter,
to whom he explained with some difficulty that he wished to be placed next to the two ladies
who sat last on the side away from the staircase at the public table. 

Finally the officers took to clear, and the fans were pulling the ring is until it completely
free. Enrique and Miguel, who had been in the courtyards talking briefly with cigar and his crew
were also to occupy the respective seats. The noise had decreased a lot, because this is perceived
by the chords hospicianos charanga, which until then had failed to be heard. Viewers took off
their watches and meaningful glances ran for president. In this, the charanga sang real progress
with energy, all faces turned to the regional viewpoint which appeared Queen Elizabeth: Some
clapped, others said 'hush, hush, "because the political atmosphere was then overcast with some clouds
who downloaded not long after. Made the signal, after all, the teams entered the arena to the sound
of the running of the zarzuela Pan y toros: out, as usual, forming three rows in front of
each was the respective sword. To see a prolonged burst of applause. Severe across the square,
firm, rhythmic, listening to the shouting that his appearance had raised with the utmost indifference;
its rich costumes and bright Capellaro live firing flares that pleases the eye.

- Mial, mial old! ... That is, to the left ... Mial which side has
... Le zumba the soul to this guy!

.. In Spain there is no longer bulls who receives more than he ...

All attention was concentrated on the plaza cigarette cases, despite the fact that also killed Laurel
and lizards, which was then beginning to be the darling of the public. But for the Madrid
fan, to see receive a bull is one of those dreams that never made although they live constantly
in the heart stand taken by several bullfighters, but receive receive what is called truth,
they have not done more than the ancient heroes of bullfighting.

Uniform saluted with a gesture to the chair, and broke ranks, pulling layers gala friends in the
stands, who were responsible for their care with more pride than if they were the Ark of the
Covenant. The president took out his handkerchief, blew the bugle, the door opened pen: the first
bull appeared. Miura was a chestnut, chorreao, ribbon, thin and beautiful film, raised long horn.
Volunteer showed himself noble in the sticks, holding six Shiv of round picks. But to get to
the sticks began to fight back. However, the Serranito couple stabbed a superb room with fine and
clean, pleasantly surprised the public: in Madrid did not know, as in Seville, Baldomero was
a boy who would much to speak. Hake was passed once and then hung a stick room as well. He turned
Serranito to pick up the sticks, and after trying in vain to hang on the bias, put them breaking
with cleaning and expertise. There was a frenzy of clapping in the square, her slender figure and
the unique correctness and delicacy of her features, captivated the audience, the women you greedily dug
twins, triumphantly walked around the square to receive the applause of smiling lines.

It was his turn to Cigarette: severely advanced to the presidency, took off his hat and he
croaked a few words that nobody could understand, then went straight to bull, which had marked
tendency to flee. Persiguiole some time unsuccessfully expectant curiosity through the square.
Finally, thanks to the efforts of the crew, could fret, and did pretty tight, giving some good passes,
the crowd applauded and the promised very happy. But amid the slaughter, the right-hander suffered
a strained and lost entirely aplomb, gave three or four passes without trust and broken, and fast
and running, without being either square the animal, rolled the cloth away and threw quite a
step of flags. The thrust was a dip in the most evil thing he had never seen. It's indescribable
anger that gripped the audience. Had it been another bullfighter had gone through a whistle,
large or small, but have conceived the hope of seeing a former teacher bullfighting by Montes
system and come to the square to witness that shame, this put out of his fans. What shouting,
good heavens! How insulting! I'm sorry! It seemed that everyone had just robbed him the honor
of his daughter.

- Morral, thief, big pig! So you hang by your feet! Are you the one who received the bulls? A
prison with that rascal! Mr. President, how soon would you have Civil Guard?

And amid the clutter, oranges, empty bottles and even a few stones, flying the square, and right-hander
hurt miracle. This advanced, pale, embarrassed, to the presidency. Tended to reach near where
they were Enrique and Miguel, an orange accurate him in the face and drew blood. Enrique, who was
already excited and nervous, could not repress indignation, and rising
shouted to those behind:

- Who was that brave?

Is that bold without shame?

- Outside the premature cool!

To dance! - Answered from above.

- Is it addressed V. me? - said
a rising with arrogance.

- I am writing to which he is.

- Then we
will see the faces on exit.

- It's see you to spit - Enrique said
angrily.

- Away, away!

Who feels that babieca! - Shouted from above.

He had no choice but to do so. The cigar smiled wiping the blood with his handkerchief. It was
a smile so sad and so humble, that Michael is the heart and were pressed on the verge of swallowing
tears.

Just when it appeared the second bull in the ring, found at all the fuss. For more than worked until
he could not take them out more, the poor did not get captured Cigarette benevolence, even the forgiveness
of the public. All efforts made, how many coats missed (and justice required to declare that the
casting of art), served as a mockery and ridicule the enraged people. El Gordo, in his bull,
was as usual, from Masters and clicking crutch pretty bad. Bullfighting lizard on his short
and cool, and went for the right to volapié, giving a good thrust,
but starting trompicado.

Many cheers.

Reached the fourth bull, which corresponded back to cigar.

Veragua was a red ribbon, energetic, black-eyed, open horn, good picture, like almost all
of the Duke, a brave and beautiful animal.

Hake will put up a good pair to crazing. The Serranito took after the sticks, and as the public
saw him in the middle of the square, applauded.

- Smell your mare, salt!

Room also wanted them, but it happened once because the bull would not start. Again quartering and
returned to spend for the same reason. Again he went to the bull, and again happened. Then there
was some forward movement in the public heard a whistle, this was the bane of the poor lad.
Wounded his pride, rushed to the res-blind and wanted to stab him the flags at all costs, the bull,
which had not moved, you'll be hooked below arm and flipped. There was a cry of horror in the
square. The entire crews rushed on the animal, trying to take it, but to no avail. Cigarette
unnecessarily jumping heroically in front of the horns, by putting the cloth over the eyes;
vain Lagartijo Gordo and he also threw coats, exposing them to die, the bull, as if he had any Baldomero
unfortunate grievance, not listen to anything, and picked it up again and again threw air.
Then the cigar, last inspiration, dropped the coat, clutched tightly the tail of the beast and began
colearla; took many turns, at last fell sick, the Gordo took the
coat away.

In this the Serranito had stood and smiled forcibly the public as the gladiator who wants
to die with grace, touched his chest and fell again, releasing jets of blood from wounds. Two Wise
Monkeys picked him up and took him to nursing, while others ran at once to cover the blood with
sand.

The president, who must have been shocked and upset as everyone in
the audience, gave the death signal, without considering that the
bull had been placed not more than a couple of flags, and it was dangerous
for the sword that was so full of death.

This was it!

The public, who likes to show good heart after the misfortunes that have happened, rose en masse,
becoming angry against the President, as if he was he had hit the horns to Serranito.

- Barbarian, savage, murderer!

Frantic waving fists and batons against the president's box, his eyes
blazing, blackness faces anger.

No one respected or even remember the majesty was at his side: the
shouting the most vulgar insults.

But the president, though he was repented, and must be, judging from the confusion that was
reflected in his countenance, could not revoke the order, his dignity would not let him. Then
the crowd went to the cigar, who had taken the stuff, and shouted:

- Do not kill, do not kill! I kill that murderer!

The Cigarette shrugged her shoulders and prepared to go looking for the answer. At that moment
a bullfighter who came running said something in his ear, and the sword was terribly pale.
The public knew he had bad news Serranito.

The killer took off his cap, passed his hand across his brow with
gloom, put it back and went toward the bull.

The cries went out instantly, mournful silence reigned in the square.

- He killed his brother!

Killed his brother! - They said the audience's ear.

And all inexplicable anxiety felt a deep sympathy for the unfortunate cigar. He moved slowly,
hesitant step towards the bull. But do not stop until stop drop cloth on the same horns.

- Ole! - Roared the square silence reigned.

The bull jumped as if she felt a spur, and stirred immediately, furious. The sword gave him a
chest pass, above.

- Ole! - Roared back the square.

And again there was silence.

Other countries followed this natural and round, given as short and with such skill, that the
public wanted to go crazy. The matador's feet barely moved out of a circle or very narrow, but
this circle seemed sacred and insurmountable; the bull's horns passed
rubbing the old man's jacket matador without doing the slightest harm.

Finally, the beast both stirred and fed up with fruitless attack, stopped panting. The bull and
the bullfighter looked, wipe it quietly rolled, threw the sword to the face and cited with the foot
to receive. Came the beast, furious, and she stuck the sword to the hilt. There repressed a scream
of excitement in the square.

The bull stood motionless for a moment against torero, threw a faint moo collapsed and fell
on his arms.

No one can represent what happened then: a delusion, a massive nervous breakdown, ten or twelve
thousand lunatics screaming at the top of his lungs, a cloud of cigar, cigarette and hats flying
through the air and black carpeting instantly the white sand. Twenty years had not been seen
in the square in Madrid the chance to receive, thus consummated.

The Cigarette glanced wanders the stands, ran his hand over his forehead,
and dropping to the ground the crutch, she ran like a deer without
attending to the cries of enthusiasm to the calls that made him everywhere,
jumped the barrier and disappeared of public view.

When it came to the hospital were already there and Miguel Enrique
with the doctor and some friends.

The priest had confessed and was about to put the anointing of the
unfortunate Baldomero, who presented in the face unfailing signs of
death.

When his brother came into his eyes to him and smiled warmly.

-
Is there no yes or NAA, eh? - He asked in an agitated voice, hoarse,
trying to persuade that there was no case of death.

- Not much, Pepe
... I'm going another neighborhood ar ...

The priest moved at that
moment with the sacred oils.

All the bystanders turned the knee. Eerie silence reigned, only interrupted by the murmur of the
clergy and the rattle the dying. When it concluded, Baldomero sent a smile to his brother and
handed him hand and said to work:

- My little ones ...

- Loses cudiao, Baldomero - said the old man's voice and her hand knotted heart .-- Your child
will be mine.

At that moment there came a great shout in the square. It was the people, who greeted the entry
the fifth bull.

The cigar dropped sobbing in the arms of Michael.

- What a sadness, D. Miguelito gun, what sadness!

X

Quite a few ups and downs took the advent of Independence, "liberal daily in the morning."
Our friend Mendoza nearly lost the right to run the streets clean. From the press the paper
store, hence the wording, the writing home of Rivers, and so the
whole part of the day and night.

Most of the writers was appointed by the count, some were children of regular commentators,
other journalists who had starved to loose some laudatory.

Finally, the first issue.

Great was the surprise of Michael to read under the title another
short rengloncito said: "Director: Don Pedro Mendoza and Pimentel.

She could not suppress a sense of outrage.

- But this fool, what will come to bear? - Whispered clutching the newspaper. Y after a while, looking
into panting, sweat running down his forehead to Brutandor, he faced
with him saying:

- Listen, Perico, are you strong enough to guide
me in the arduous tasks of journalism?

Mendoza turned red and began to stammer:

- I have not been!

... I know too!

... The count has been committed ... He said it was necessary a person
... We did not dare to put you in case you did not want ... Anyway
you know ...

- Well, well, I know that everything - Miguel said bitterly
.-- But these things, dear Perico they say if you do not agree.

This was the case. As it was anger, Miguel laughed at his friend Goose and did not think about it.
However, he charged with a few jokes, was the child could take revenge.

-
I participate, I love Manchester, if not give me a match, divulged
the secret that makes I have saved you years - said without looking
up from the pages he was writing.

Mendoza gave the match seriously and preventing out as he could ridicule
of his friend.

- What secret is that? - Asked him laughing the other
editors.

- I made an oath not to reveal it.

Perhaps someday he will find out. Have VV. patience.

And indeed, after a few months, having written an article on controversial Miguel personal Mendoza
was authorized to amend it by adding some words that were a serious conflict the newspaper.

- Do you see VV.? - Shouted angrily in the middle of drafting throwing
his hat against the ground many years ago .-- I will faithfully keep
the secret that is an animal, and he reveal it just now!

- I knew
- one editor said, smiling and looking suspiciously at the door.

-
Ah! Did you know V.?

- We knew it all - said another looking also
at the door .-- All but the Earl of Rivers.

- This is a very simple
explanation: the count is that Rivers is more animal than him. 

The
editors looked shocked, and without saying another word, bowed their
heads and continued writing.

- Listen, Perico - I say again - I think
that this coat is very short.

The fellow laughed because it was far
from true.

- It is quite long - a bit amostazado Mendoza said.

-
For any other mortal no doubt, but for a director! ... Notes, Perico,
you have made to the public certain unavoidable commitments.

The
writing consisted of a room and cabinet in a room mezzanine Bath Street.
At first everything was writing, and gradually more muted, Mendoza
was left only in the cabinet. One day came on the door this a sign
that said: Address. Perico is believed the explanation for his friend. He remembered it too, and was thinking of it, for he smiled as he
spoke and looked away at the horizon as though he saw something in the air. For the first time
in her life the young girl had a cruel impulse. She wished that she were a great beauty, or
that she possessed infinite charm, that she might revenge the little lady in white and make
the man suffer as he deserved. At one moment she was ashamed of the wish, and then again it
returned, and she smiled as she thought of it.

She was vaguely aware, too, that the man attracted her in a way which did not interfere with
her resentment against him. She would certainly not have admitted that he was interesting to
her on account of Lady Fan--but there was in her a feminine willingness to play with the fire
at which another woman had burned her wings. Almost all women feel that, until they have once
felt too much themselves. The more innocent and inexperienced they are, the more sure they
are, as a rule, of their own perfect safety, and the more ready to run any risk.

Neither of the women answered the young man's rather frivolous assertion for some moments.
Then Mrs. Bowring looked at him kindly, but with a far-away expression, as though she were
thinking of some one else.

"You are young," she said gently.

"It's true that I'm not very old," he answered. "I was five-and-twenty on my last birthday."

"Five-and-twenty," repeated Mrs. Bowring very slowly, and looking at the distance, with the
air of a person who is making a mental calculation.

"Are you surprised?" asked the young man, watching her.

She started a little.

"Surprised? Oh dear no! Why should I be?"

And again she looked at him earnestly, until, realising what she was doing, she suddenly shut
her eyes, shook herself almost imperceptibly, and took out some work which she had brought
out with her.

"Oh!" he exclaimed. "I thought you might fancy I was a good deal older or younger. But I'm
always told that I look just my age."

"I think you do," answered Mrs. Bowring, without looking up.

Clare glanced at his face again. It was natural, under the circumstances, though she knew his
features by heart already. She met his eyes, and for a moment she could not look away from
them. It was as though they fixed her against her will, after she had once met them. There
was nothing extraordinary about them, except that they were very bright and clear. With an
effort she turned away, and the faint colour rose in her face.

"I am nineteen," she said quietly, as though she were answering a question.

"Indeed?" exclaimed Brook, not thinking of anything else to say.

Mrs. Bowring looked at her daughter in considerable surprise. Then Clare blushed painfully,
realising that she had spoken without any intention of speaking, and had volunteered a piece
of information which had certainly not been asked. It was very well, being but nineteen years
old; but she was oddly conscious that if she had been forty she should have said so in just
the same absent-minded way, at that moment.

"Nineteen and six are twenty-five, aren't they?" asked Mrs. Bowring suddenly.

"Yes, I believe so," answered the young man, with a laugh, but a good deal surprised in his
turn, for the question seemed irrelevant and absurd in the extreme. "But I'm not good at sums,"
he added. "I was an awful idiot at school. They used to call me Log. That was short for logarithm,
you know, because I was such a log at arithmetic. A fellow gave me the nickname one day. It
wasn't very funny, so I punched his head. But the name stuck to me. Awfully appropriate, anyhow,
as it turned out."

"Did you punch his head because it wasn't funny?" asked Clare, glad of the turn in the conversation.

"Oh--I don't know--on general principles. He was a diabolically clever little chap, though
he wasn't very witty. He came out Senior Wrangler at Cambridge. I heard he had gone mad last
year. Lots of those clever chaps do, you know. Or else they turn parsons and take pupils for
a living. I'd much rather be stupid, myself. There's more to live for, when you don't know
everything. Don't you think so?"

Both women laughed, and felt that the man was tactful. They were also both reflecting, of themselves
and of each other, that they were not generally silly women, and they wondered how they had
both managed to say such foolish things, speaking out irrelevantly what was passing in their minds.

"I think I shall go for a walk," said Brook, rising rather abruptly. "I'll go up the hill for
a change. Thanks awfully. Good-bye!"

He lifted his hat and went off towards the hotel. Mrs. Bowring looked after him, but Clare
leaned back in her seat and opened a book she had with her. The colour rose and fell in her
cheeks, and she kept her eyes resolutely bent down.

"What a nice fellow!" exclaimed Mrs. Bowring when the young man was out of hearing. "I wonder
who he is."

"What difference can it make, what his name is?" asked Clare, still looking down.

"What is the matter with you, child?" Mrs. Bowring asked. "You talk so strangely to-day!"

"So do you, mother. Fancy asking him whether nineteen and six are twenty-five!"

"For that matter, my dear, I thought it very strange that you should tell him your age, like that."

"I suppose I was absent-minded. Yes! I know it was silly, I don't know why I said it. Do you
want to know his name? I'll go and see. It must be on the board by this time, as he is stopping
here."

She rose and was going, when her mother called her back.

"Clare! Wait till he is gone, at all events! Fancy, if he saw you!"

"Oh! He won't see me! If he comes that way I'll go into the office and buy stamps."

Clare went in and looked over the square board with its many little slips for the names of
the guests. Some were on visiting cards and some were written in the large, scrawling, illiterate
hand of the head waiter. Some belonged to people who were already gone. It looked well, in
the little hotel, to have a great many names on the list. Some seconds passed before Clare
found that of the new-comer.

"Mr. Brook Johnstone."

Brook was his first name, then. It was uncommon. She looked at it fixedly. There was no address
on the small, neatly engraved card. While she was looking at it a door opened quietly behind
her, in the opposite side of the corridor. She paid no attention to it for a moment; then,
hearing no footsteps, she instinctively turned. Brook Johnstone was standing on the threshold
watching her. She blushed violently, in her annoyance, for he could not doubt but that she
was looking for his name. He saw and understood, and came forward naturally, with a smile.
He had a stick in his hand.

"That's me," he said, with a little laugh, tapping his card on the board with the head of his
stick. "If I'd had an ounce of manners I should have managed to tell you who I was by this
time. Won't you excuse me, and take this for an introduction? Johnstone--with an E at the end--Scotch,
you know."

"Thanks," answered Clare, recovering from her embarrassment. "I'll tell my mother." She hesitated
a moment. "And that's us," she added, laughing rather nervously and pointing out one of the
cards. "How grammatical we are, aren't we?" she laughed, while he stooped and read the name
which chanced to be at the bottom of the board.

"Well--what should one say? 'That's we.' It sounds just as badly. And you can't say 'we are
that,' can you? Besides, there's no one to hear us, so it makes no difference. I don't suppose
that you--you and Mrs. Bowring--would care to go for a walk, would you?"

"No," answered Clare, with sudden coldness. "I don't think so, thank you. We are not great
walkers."

They went as far as the door together. Johnstone bowed and walked off, and Clare went back
to her mother.

"He caught me," she said, in a tone of annoyance. "You were quite right. Then he showed me
his name himself, on the board. It's Johnstone--Mr. Brook Johnstone, with an E--he says that
he is Scotch. Why--mother! Johnstone! How odd! That was the name of--"

She stopped short and looked at her mother, who had grown unnaturally pale during the last
few seconds.

"Yes, dear. That was the name of my first husband."

Mrs. Bowring spoke in a low voice, looking down at her work. But her hands trembled violently,
and she was clearly making a great effort to control herself. Clare watched her anxiously,
not at all understanding.

"Mother dear, what is it?" she asked. "The name is only a coincidence--it's not such an uncommon
name, after all--and besides--"

"Oh, of course," said Mrs. Bowring, in a dull tone. "It's a mere coincidence--probably no relation.
I'm nervous, to-day."

Her manner seemed unaccountable to her daughter, except on the supposition that she was ill.
She very rarely spoke of her first husband, by whom she had no children. When she did, she
mentioned his name gravely, as one speaks of dead persons who have been dear, but that was
all. She had never shown anything like emotion in connection with the subject, and the young
girl avoided it instinctively, as most children, of whose parents the one has been twice married,
avoid the mention of the first husband or wife, who was not their father or mother.

"I wish I understood you!" exclaimed Clare.

"There's nothing to understand, dear," said Mrs. Bowring, still very pale. "I'm nervous--that's
all."

Before long she left Clare by herself and went indoors, and locked herself into her room. The
rooms in the old hotel were once the cells of the monks, small vaulted chambers in which there
is barely space for the most necessary furniture. During nearly an hour Mrs. Bowring paced
up and down, a beat of fourteen feet between the low window and the locked door. At last she
stopped before the little glass, and looked at herself, and smoothed her streaked hair.

"Nineteen and six--are twenty-five," she said slowly in a low voice, and her eyes stared into
their own reflection rather wildly.

CHAPTER V

Brook Johnstone's people did not come on the next day, nor on the day after that, but he expressed
no surprise at the delay, and did not again say that it was a bore to have to wait for them.
Meanwhile he spent a great deal of his time with the Bowrings, and the acquaintance ripened
quickly towards intimacy, without passing near friendship, as such acquaintance sometimes will,
when it springs up suddenly in the shallow ground of an out-of-the-way hotel on the Continent.

"For Heaven's sake don't let that man fall in love with you, Clare!" said Mrs. Bowring one
morning, with what seemed unnecessary vehemence.

Clare's lip curled scornfully as she thought of poor Lady Fan.

"There isn't the slightest danger of that!" she answered. "Any more than there is of my falling
in love with him," she added.

"Are you sure of that?" asked her mother. "You seem to like him. Besides, he is very nice,
and very good-looking."

"Oh yes--of course he is. But one doesn't necessarily fall in love with every nice and good-looking
man one meets."

Thereupon Clare cut the conversation short by going off to her own room. She had been expecting
for some time that her mother would make some remark about the growing intimacy with young
Johnstone. To tell the truth, Mrs. Bowring had not the slightest ground for anxiety in any
previous attachment of her daughter. She was beginning to wonder whether Clare would ever show
any preference for any man.

But she did not at all wish to marry her at present, for she felt that life without the girl
would be unbearably lonely. On the other hand, Clare had a right to marry. They were poor.
A part of their little income was the pension that Mrs. Bowring had been fortunate enough to
get as the widow of an officer killed in action, but that would cease at her death, as poor
Captain Bowring's allowance from his family had ceased at his death. The family had objected
to the marriage from the first, and refused to do anything for his child after he was gone.
It would go hard with Clare if she were left alone in the world with what her mother could
leave her. On the other hand, that little, or the prospect of it, was quite safe, and would
make a great difference to her, as a married woman. The two lived on it, with economy. Clare
could certainly dress very well on it if she married a rich man, but she could as certainly
not afford to marry a poor one.

As for this young Johnstone, he had not volunteered much information about himself, and, though
Mrs. Bowring sometimes asked him questions, she was extremely careful not to ask any which
could be taken in the nature of an inquiry as to his prospects in life, merely because that
might possibly suggest to him that she was thinking of her daughter. And when an Englishman
is reticent in such matters, it is utterly impossible to guess whether he be a millionaire
or a penniless younger son. Johnstone never spoke of money, in any connection. He never said
that he could afford one thing or could not afford another. He talked a good deal of shooting
and sport, but never hinted that his father had any land. He never mentioned a family place
in the country, nor anything of the sort. He did not even tell the Bowrings to whom the yacht
belonged in which he had come, though he frequently alluded to things which had been said and
done by the party during a two months' cruise, chiefly in eastern waters.

The Bowrings were quite as reticent about themselves, and each respected the other's silence.
Nevertheless they grew intimate, scarcely knowing how the intimacy developed. That is to say,
they very quickly became accustomed, all three, to one another's society. If Johnstone was
out of the hotel first, of an afternoon, he moped about with his pipe in an objectless way,
as though he had lost something, until the Bowrings came out. If he was writing letters and
they appeared first, they talked in detached phrases and looked often towards the door, until
he came and sat down beside them.

On the third evening, at dinner, he seemed very much amused at something, and then, as though
he could not keep the joke to himself, he told his companions that he had received a telegram
from his father, in answer to one of his own, informing him that he had made a mistake of a
whole fortnight in the date, and must amuse himself as he pleased in the interval.

"Just like me!" he observed. "I got the letter in Smyrna or somewhere--I forget--and I managed
to lose it before I had read it through. But I thought I had the date all right. I'm glad,
at all events. I was tired of those good people, and it's ever so much pleasanter here."

Clare's gentle mouth hardened suddenly as she thought of Lady Fan. Johnstone had been thoroughly
tired of her. That was what he meant when he spoke of "those good people."

"You get tired of people easily, don't you?" she inquired coldly.

"Oh no--not always," answered Johnstone.

By this time he was growing used to her sudden changes of manner and to the occasional scornful
speeches she made. He could not understand them in the least, as may be imagined, and having
considerable experience he set them down to the score of a certain girlish shyness, which showed
itself in no other way. He had known women whose shyness manifested itself in saying disagreeable
things for which they were sometimes sorry afterwards.

"No," he added reflectively. "I don't think I'm a very fickle person."

Clare turned upon him the terrible innocence of her clear blue eyes. She thought she knew the
truth about him too, and that he could not look her in the face. But she was mistaken. He met
her glance fearlessly and quietly, with a frank smile and a little wonder at its fixed scrutiny.
She would not look away, rude though she might seem, nor be stared out of countenance by a
man whom she believed to be false and untrue. But his eyes were very bright, and in a few seconds
they began to dazzle her, and she felt her eyelids trembling violently. It was a new sensation,
and a very unpleasant one. It seemed to her that the man had suddenly got some power over her.
She made a strong effort and turned away her face, and again she blushed with annoyance.

"I beg your pardon," Johnstone said quickly, in a very low voice. "I didn't mean to be so rude."

Clare said nothing as she sat beside him, but she looked at the opposite wall, and her hand
made an impatient little gesture as the fingers lay on the edge of the table. Possibly, if
her mother had not been on her other side, she might have answered him. As it was, she felt
that she could not speak just then. She was very much disturbed, as though something new and
totally unknown had got hold of her. It was not only that she hated the man for his heartlessness,
while she felt that he had some sort of influence over her, which was more than mere attraction.
There was something beyond, deep down in her heart, which was nameless, and painful, but which
she somehow felt that she wanted. And aside from it all, she was angry with him for having
stared her out of countenance, forgetting that when she had turned upon him she had meant to
do the same by him, feeling quite sure that he could not look her in the face.

They spoke little during the remainder of the meal, for Clare was quite willing to show that
she was angry, though she had little right to be. After all, she had looked at him, and he
had looked at her. After dinner she disappeared, and was not seen during the remainder of the
evening.

When she was alone, however, she went over the whole matter thoughtfully, and she made up her
mind that she had been hasty. For she was naturally just. She said to herself that she had
no claim to the man's secrets, which she had learned in a way of which she was not at all proud;
and that if he could keep his own counsel, he, on his side, had a right to do so. The fact
that she knew him to be heartless and faithless by no means implied that he was also indiscreet,
though when an individual has done anything which we think bad we easily suppose that he may
do every other bad thing imaginable. Johnstone's discretion, at least, was admirable, now that
she thought of it. His bright eyes and frank look would have disarmed any suspicion short of
the certainty she possessed. There had not been the least contraction of the lids, the smallest
change in the expression of his mouth, not the faintest increase of colour in his young face.

So much the worse, thought the young girl suddenly. He was not only bad. He was also an accomplished
actor. No doubt his eyes had been as steady and bright and his whole face as truthful when
he had made love to Lady Fan at sunset on the Acropolis. Somehow, the allusion to that scene
had produced a vivid impression on Clare's mind, and she often found herself wondering what
he had said, and how he had looked just then.

Her resentment against him increased as she thought it all over, and again she felt a longing
to be cruel to him, and to make him suffer just what he had made Lady Fan endure.

Then she was suddenly and unexpectedly overcome by a shamed sense of her inability to accomplish
any such act of justice. It was as though she had already tried, and had failed, and he had
laughed in her face and turned away. It seemed to her that there could be nothing in her which
could appeal to such a man. There was Lady Fan, much older, with plenty of experience, doubtless;
and she had been deceived, and betrayed, and abandoned, before the young girl's very eyes.
What chance could such a mere girl possibly have? It was folly, and moreover it was wicked
of her to think of such things. She would be willingly lowering herself to his level, trying
to do the very thing which she despised and hated in him, trying to outwit him, to out-deceive
him, to out-betray him. One side of her nature, at least, revolted against any such scheme.
Besides, she could never do it.

She was not a great beauty; she was not extraordinarily clever--not clever at all, she said
to herself in her sudden fit of humility; she had no "experience." That last word means a good
deal more to most young girls than they can find in it after life's illogical surprises have
taught them the terrible power of chance and mood and impulse.

She glanced at her face in the mirror, and looked away. Then she glanced again. The third time
she turned to the glass she began to examine her features in detail. Lady Fan was a fair woman,
too. But, without vanity, she had to admit that she was much better-looking than Lady Fan.
She was also much younger and fresher, which should be an advantage, she thought. She wished
that her hair were golden instead of flaxen; that her eyes were dark instead of blue; that
her cheeks were not so thin, and her throat a shade less slender. Nevertheless, she would have
been willing to stand any comparison with the little lady in white. Of course, compared with
the famous beauties, some of whom she had seen, she was scarcely worth a glance. Doubtless,
Brook Johnstone knew them all.

Then she gazed into her own eyes. She did not know that a woman, alone, may look into her own
eyes and blush and turn away. She looked long and steadily, and quite quietly. After all, they
looked dark, for the pupils were very large and the blue iris was of that deep colour which
borders upon violet. There was something a little unusual in them, too, though she could not
quite make out what it was. Why did not all women look straight before them as she did? There
must be some mysterious reason. It was a pity that her eyelashes were almost white. Yet they,
too, added something to the peculiarity of that strange gaze.

"They are like periwinkles in a snowstorm!" exclaimed Clare, tired of her own face; and she
turned from the mirror and went to bed.

CHAPTER VI

The first sign that two people no longer stand to each other in the relation of mere acquaintances
is generally that the tones of their voices change, while they feel a slight and unaccountable
constraint when they happen to be left alone together.

Two days passed after the little incident which had occurred at dinner before Clare and Johnstone
were momentarily face to face out of Mrs. Bowring's sight. At first Clare had not been aware
that her mother was taking pains to be always present when the young man was about, but when
she noticed the fact she at once began to resent it. Such constant watchfulness was unlike
her mother, un-English, and almost unnatural. When they were all seated together on the terrace,
if Mrs. Bowring wished to go indoors to write a letter or to get something she invented some
excuse for making her daughter go with her, and stay with her till she came out again. A French
or Italian mother could not have been more particular or careful, but a French or Italian girl
would have been accustomed to such treatment, and would not have seen anything unusual in it.
But Mrs. Bowring had never acted in such a way before now, and it irritated the young girl
extremely. She felt that she was being treated like a child, and that Johnstone must see it
and think it ridiculous. At last Clare made an attempt at resistance, out of sheer contrariety.

"I don't want to write letters!" she answered impatiently. "I wrote two yesterday. It is hot
indoors, and I would much rather stay here!"

Mrs. Bowring went as far as the parapet, and looked down at the sea for a moment. Then she
came back and sat down again.

"It's quite true," she said. "It is hot indoors. I don't think I shall write, after all."

Brook Johnstone could not help smiling a little, though he turned away his face to hide his
amusement. It was so perfectly evident that Mrs. Bowring was determined not to leave Clare
alone with him that he must have been blind not to see it. Clare saw the smile, and was angry.
She was nineteen years old, she had been out in the world, the terrace was a public place,
Johnstone was a gentleman, and the whole thing was absurd. She took up her work and closed
her lips tightly.

Johnstone felt the awkwardness, rose suddenly, and said he would go for a walk. Clare raised
her eyes and nodded as he lifted his hat. He was still smiling, and her resentment deepened.
A moment later, mother and daughter were alone. Clare did not lay down her work, nor look up
when she spoke.

"Really, mother, it's too absurd!" she exclaimed, and a little colour came to her cheeks.

"What is absurd, my dear?" asked Mrs. Bowring, affecting not to understand.

"Your abject fear of leaving me for five minutes with Mr. Johnstone. I'm not a baby. He was
laughing. I was positively ashamed! What do you suppose could have happened, if you had gone
in and written your letters and left us quietly here? And it happens every day, you know! If
you want a glass of water, I have to go in with you."

"My dear! What an exaggeration!"

"It's not an exaggeration, mother--really. You know that you wouldn't leave me with him for
five minutes, for anything in the world."

"Do you wish to be left alone with him, my dear?" asked Mrs. Bowring, rather abruptly.

Clare was indignant.

"Wish it? No! Certainly not! But if it should happen naturally, by accident, I should not get
up and run away. I'm not afraid of the man, as you seem to be. What can he do to me? And you
have no idea how strangely you behave, and what ridiculous excuses you invent for me. The other
day you insisted on my going in to look for a train in the time-tables when you know we haven't
the slightest intention of going away for ever so long. Really--you're turning into a perfect
duenna. I wish you would behave naturally, as you always used to do."

"I think you exaggerate," said Mrs. Bowring. "I never leave you alone with men you hardly know--"

"You can't exactly say that we hardly know Mr. Johnstone, when he has been with us, morning,
noon, and night, for nearly a week, mother."

"My dear, we know nothing about him--"

"If you are so anxious to know his father's Christian name, ask him. It wouldn't seem at all
odd. I will, if you like."

"Don't!" cried Mrs. Bowring, with unusual energy. "I mean," she added in a lower tone and looking
away, "it would be very rude--he would think it very strange. In fact, it is merely idle curiosity
on my part--really, I would much rather not know."

Clare looked at her mother in surprise.

"How oddly you talk!" she exclaimed. Then her tone changed. "Mother dear--is anything the matter?
You don't seem quite--what shall I say? Are you suffering, dearest? Has anything happened?"

She dropped her work, and leaned forward, her hand on her mother's, and gazing into her face
with a look of anxiety.

"No, dear," answered Mrs. Bowring. "No, no--it's nothing. Perhaps I'm a little nervous--that's
all."

"I believe the air of this place doesn't suit you. Why shouldn't we go away at once?"

Mrs. Bowring shook her head and protested energetically.

"No--oh no! I wouldn't go away for anything. I like the place immensely, and we are both getting
perfectly well here. Oh no! I wouldn't think of going away."

Clare leaned back in her seat again. She was devotedly fond of her mother, and she could not
but see that something was wrong. In spite of what she said, Mrs. Bowring was certainly not
growing stronger, though she was not exactly ill. The pale face was paler, and there was a
worn and restless look in the long-suffering, almost colourless eyes.

"I'm sorry I made such a fuss about Mr. Johnstone," said Clare softly, after a short pause.

"No, darling," answered her mother instantly. "I dare say I have been a little over careful.
I don't know--I had a sort of presentiment that you might take a fancy to him."

"I know. You said so the first day. But I sha'n't, mother. You need not be at all afraid. He
is not at all the sort of man to whom I should ever take a fancy, as you call it."

"I don't see why not," said Mrs. Bowring thoughtfully.

"Of course--it's hard to explain." Clare smiled. "But if that is what you are afraid of, you
can leave us alone all day. My 'fancy' would be quite, quite different."

"Very well, darling. At all events, I'll try not to turn into a duenna."

Johnstone did not appear again until dinner, and then he was unusually silent, only exchanging
a remark with Clare now and then, and not once leaning forward to say a few words to Mrs. Bowring
as he generally did. The latter had at first thought of exchanging places with her daughter,
but had reflected that it would be almost a rudeness to make such a change after the second day.

They went out upon the terrace, and had their coffee there. Several of the other people did
the same, and walked slowly up and down under the vines. Mrs. Bowring, wishing to destroy as
soon as possible the unpleasant impression she had created, left the two together, saying that
she would get something to put over her shoulders, as the air was cool.

Clare and Johnstone stood by the parapet and looked at each other. Then Clare leaned with her
elbows on the wall and stared in silence at the little lights on the beach below, trying to
make out the shapes of the boats which were hauled up in a long row. Neither spoke for a long
time, and Clare, at least, felt unpleasantly the constraint of the unusual silence.

"It is a beautiful place, isn't it?" observed Johnstone at last, for the sake of hearing his
own voice.

"Oh yes, quite beautiful," answered the young girl in a half-indifferent, half-discontented
tone, and the words ended with a sort of girlish sniff.

Again there was silence. Johnstone, standing up beside her, looked towards the hotel, to see
whether Mrs. Bowring were coming back. But she was anxious to appear indifferent to their being
together, and was in no hurry to return. Johnstone sat down upon the wall, while Clare leaned
over it.

"Miss Bowring!" he said suddenly, to call her attention.

"Yes?" She did not look up; but to her own amazement she felt a queer little thrill at the
sound of his voice, for it had not its usual tone.

"Don't you think I had better go to Naples?" he asked.

Clare felt herself start a little, and she waited a moment before she said anything in reply.
She did not wish to betray any astonishment in her voice. Johnstone had asked the question
under a sudden impulse; but a far wiser and more skilful man than himself could not have hit
upon one better calculated to precipitate intimacy. Clare, on her side, was woman enough to
know that she had a choice of answers, and to see that the answer she should choose must make
a difference hereafter. At the same time, she had been surprised, and when she thought of it
afterwards it seemed to her that the question itself had been an impertinent one, merely because
it forced her to make an answer of some sort. She decided in favour of making everything as
clear as possible.

"Why?" she asked, without looking round.

At all events she would throw the burden of an elucidation upon him. He was not afraid of taking
it up.

"It's this," he answered. "I've rather thrust my acquaintance upon you, and, if I stay here
until my people come, I can't exactly change my seat and go and sit at the other end of the
table, nor pretend to be busy all day, and never come out here and sit with you, after telling
you repeatedly that I have nothing on earth to do. Can I?"

"Why should you?"

"Because Mrs. Bowring doesn't like me."

Clare rose from her elbows and stood up, resting her hands upon the wall, but still looking
down at the lights on the beach.

"I assure you, you're quite mistaken," she answered, with quiet emphasis. "My mother thinks
you're very nice."

"Then why--" Johnstone checked himself, and crumbled little bits of mortar from the rough wall
with his thumbs.

"Why what?"

"I don't know whether I know you well enough to ask the question, Miss Bowring."

"Let's assume that you do--for the sake of argument," said Clare, with a short laugh, as she
glanced at his face, dimly visible in the falling darkness. 

Because you see, my friend, that this was an excellent scheme practiced with pupils, or a father
to his children while they are under parental authority, but not to form villages encouragement
that its inhabitants ahead in police culture, as has been at all times the king's will. So it
was practiced, and the consequences were the same as those needed wait. It could not concealed
from his priests, nor the body of the religion which he ruled, but their particular purposes were
first in all that ran, and thus preferred this method, separating it by the Indians of all he
could out of their ignorance and depression.

With this scheme, and the Jesuit economy, it is no wonder that over one hundred and fifty years
ago these people are well founded, might collect the funds they had at the time of estrangement,
and in churches and in what is called Community Fund. I for my part I admire what he had, in response
to the fertility of this province and the many subordinate Indians, who, absolutely refused to
have them dealing with the Spanish, did not know other authority than that of the Jesuits, and
so did all they wanted from them.

As I said to you the best I could what time were these Indians of
its former priests, tell you what they have been and are at present,
the new government.

After they were expelled the Jesuit priests in charge of running these people so in spiritual and
temporal, was established in the method of government they still remains, under the rules and
ordinances that formed Excellency Don Francisco Bucareli Governor
and Captain General of Buenos Aires, which, after some mutations,
came to focus on the following terms:

Governor was established with
jurisdiction over thirty people, which equated to laws are the magistrates
and mayors of Indian villages, but subordinate the government of Buenos
Aires.

At the same time we established three subordinate lieutenancy the governor, but with the same
jurisdiction as the lieutenants in their respective departments, holding them responsible, and
the governor and the lieutenant, the result of the that each was responsible, as expressed in
those ordinances.

For each town appointed a Spanish Administrator to manage their property,
take care of their increases, the natural target, and in their tasks
as spinning and distribution should given to community property, with
an obligation to account for everything you require, with several
other charges, which include the ordinances and orders issued subsequent
to those whom he pay 300 pesos per year and maintenance.

Also got two brothers in every town with a degree of cure and companion, so that take care of the
direction of souls and divine worship, forbidding any mixture in temporal affairs, pointing
to cure synod 300 pesos and 250 pesos to mate, and on either the
people they are provided with food.

This assignment will be lowered to two religious, pointing to each 200 pesos by royal decree
of October 5, 1778.

In the same ordinances are prevented in every village to continue the appointment of a magistrate
Indian, two mayors, four aldermen, a sheriff, two mayors of brotherhood
and Butler, with other offices for the church, such as a clerk, three
singers and two prosecutors, those caring for the ministries of their
own destiny, and choices the Governor confirms peoples.

The appointment of magistrates played under the regulations, the governor of Buenos Aires, and every
magistrate should not be longer than three years, but these are not observed points, as the
governor of Misiones appoints magistrates, and they take over in
class in perpetuity, so that only defect they are deprived of employment,
and so there is still magistrates in the towns they were in time of
the Jesuits.

It may be that this practice has been followed because it is not easy to find people who can
play many Indians the office of magistrates, but, for any reason that has been followed, should
be held perjudicialísimo abuse the Indians, it deprives others of the hope of achieving this work,
with creditors to him with their application and good procedures. What is perhaps not implemented
because they do not expect any reward, and leads the Indians corregidores to become despotic,
and to oppress the other, certain that his job has no end, it would not happen if they knew that
they would last only three years, and if they do not last was quite another in the town capable
of being mayor, no problem had to re-propose, after having given the defenses that may be of
three years of employment.

All Indian men and women were allowed subject to the community, as they were in time their previous
treatments, considering them unable to make ends meet otherwise, the government and direction
of the community was placed in the mayor and council, aided and directed Spanish manager, and
subjects in a whole or lieutenant governor who corresponded the immediate command, giving rules
in the Ordinance for the better management of assets and advancement,
as well as to banish from the natural harshness and gloom they had
been educated, instilling ideas and sound policies that excites them
the desire for happiness did not know, and they are inviting their
fertility land, with many wise and rules set out therein.

For the remaining of the fruits and effects and benefits set out in these towns expended to estimate
that most advantageous to the people, established a Manager general in the city of Buenos Aires, giving
fair and very useful rule for which, if the fruits and effects in one hand, the estimate did
not lose, as would be distributed in many, and which hand it produces the people as necessary,
should pay actual taxes according to the standards, at a rate of one peso for each tributary,
and whole tithes to the church that are regulated at 100 pesos each village.

Although from the beginning it was learned that what had most influenced the inability to These
Indians were the subjects have had them to the community and not having inspired other ideas that
submission and obedience, and treat them as children of the family children, not able to illustrate
their understanding of course learned to work for them, try and trade with each other with their
fruits and effects, the less ability cahoots with the most experienced and industrious, and
to check all those ways and means practiced among civilized people, processing and trading,
so not only among themselves but also outsiders, that is what is
the growth and happiness of the peoples and nations; can not, as I
say, let them know of course these advantages, seemed the most appropriate
then leaving them subject to the same community, as they had been,
until with time be made more capable.

But, as the main reason that had reduced disability was subject to the community, surviving
it, there was still always the impediment them out of this miserable state, and this has been
experienced, even though it has worked very little progress has been made in particular.

The government established in the terms is explained briefly, were placed at Initially, for administrators,
which men came across the lot. Were over they of so little skill as the Indians, and as even the experts
were inexperienced in that operation, and had no one to imitate or consultation, is maintained
as much inaction. At the same time the Indians, unused to move anything without being sent
and even required, and administrators little or nothing available, they either did nothing, so
that only hastened to send floods bring mitas stays livestock, to what managers did not object
because they did not know how they should handle what you were responsible, nor had the courage
to oppose the Indians, or even knew what they were doing. Thus in a few years away, and ate what he
had in the villages and farms, without thinking work or replace what they ate. This is followed
by the great smallpox epidemic caused the desolation of the people,
who were not Indians or hacienda.

When the Government knew damage, and had no other choice but to apply to fix the best possible
way. For this were removed all those useless managers, replacing them with other more skill
and better behavior, it was to force Indians to work, putting more emphasis on the restoration
of the rooms, and, finally, all means were adopted which seemed leading, and they effectively
managed, if not all people, in more Relocating a mediocrity that promises some relief to their
natural, and more overtaking in the future.

This delay followed them to the people for not having verified that the same is prevented ordinances,
and each year more timely Candelaria is held at a Board general, composed of the governor,
the lieutenant, the magistrates and administrators of all peoples, so that she examined the
books of agreements that should have all them, and the provisions agreed weekly by councils and
administrators, their effects and consequences, each proposing it considers useful to the people,
agreeing and determining what the Board itself will seem more convenient, which should be annual
statements to be submitted to the Government of Buenos Aires, with the necessary reports and proposals
for the benefit of the peoples they had to fit. But this Board so essential and convenient
to the people, has not been tested even once, the ground that have impeded ignored, and only presented
my idea is the difficulty of coupling all by the distance of the most remote villages. But taking
over some administrators for only attend some function and will leave their village to another, distant
perhaps more leagues than there are from the farthest to Candelaria,
will not be found difficulty in all attended the meeting.

But even given this plea if it considers as sufficient, easily be smoothed by other methods which
would have a the same effect and was the deputy in each district formed a board of their particular
jurisdiction and their result one or two administrators and many other magistrates of satisfaction
would switch to Candelaria, where all lieutenants together with its partners, and it turns
out their boards, formed the general with the governor, thus avoiding the drawbacks followed to attend
all, and certainly would have the same effect as if it held as is prevented in the ordinances.
If the Board had taken effect, would probably not delays experienced by those people who were
in the beginning, and things had arranged in a better position than they are, then, taking from each
what he had best success, be made with knowledge of rules most appropriate for the future, there
be known merit and application of each, and throw away all those who through their incompetence
or other reasons would lead to, and work with greater consistency and accuracy.

As to the principles of caring nothing, and then had to be implemented only to people placements
of cattle, were neglected other objects that handle the ordinances, and required the attention
of all good government. It has neglected the repair and increased buildings and main house called
schools, and individuals of Indians, so that people have been ruined and some threaten to ruin
the churches. The yerbales grown along with the villages have been left almost lose, doing nothing
them out as much profit that they could, without caring to replace with new plants which were
losing or older, to apply the few people who had been to other work, that in the same year
shows the utility.

Nor was careful to introduce the toilet in people and homes of these people, nor to be treated
with honesty, neglecting also supply necessary for even the subsistence, because to address the restoration
of the rooms was necessary to abandon all else.

As experience unveiled the inability of the Indians and their propensity to spend it all and
not work, it was necessary that the orders of the government wide
powers to managers, subordinates in a way the magistrates and councils,
so that Indians forcing others to work and restrain spending.

With these measures, in which always has tried wherever possible to save the spirit of the
ordinance, has been finally to establish the practice of government that this is observed, which
in many ways deviates significantly from the ordinances, but the need has given rise to it.

Although
the ordinance states that the direction of the people has to be borne by the mayor and council,
and the administrator is only one director to advise and persuade them best, and that nothing
should be done without being prepared and agreed by the council, does not happen So administrators
are the ones with all the superiority, serving magistrates and councils only implementing the
provisions given by the administrator without They find disgust in practice as the manager
tells them, nor to assent to any treatment which the administrator
place, signing a few papers were put front and consenting willingly
and without consideration in everything that the administrator wants
to make them and their people.

And although precise circumstance that all the deals that make the managers has with your permission
to authorize the governor or lieutenant to those concerned the immediate
command and can not always find the quality of what you buy, which
is usually won cattle or horses, can not tell if the quality is actually
offered to him in proposal, and serves to commission another to witness
the delivery, for either he has to be interested party, or can be
easily bribed, and the Indians, which concerned should be the most
zealous, are the most seek to hide their own prejudices, that must
be in good faith by the administrator, but it is half of countering
fraud if he is an evil conscience.

To which you can add the permission or acquiescence the immediate superior, if that happened at
some time, going to share with administrators, could easily destroy the interests of the Indians,
and they gladly would sign the documents proving their legitimate investment flows, although
they knew and know who became party utilities.

As the administrator, as it is in these circumstances, the upper town, He alone determines everything
has to be done, he is presented with the mayor and council as subjects,
receiving orders from him and him realize the performance and results.

For his report and his motion gives the government jobs, because, as the occupation of these
are more in the tasks that the administration of justice, which the administrator proposed for
mayor, the same is named, and so are the other jobs and occupations of the people.

The labors of the people are reduced to pruning, plowing and hoeing cotton fields, picking cotton,
reseed when they have lost many plants, or plant them again when you get older or need. These
jobs are run by Indians (the plowing, planting and pruning), but the hoeing and picking cotton
is made with the Indian boys and girls. The fields wheat, corn and all kinds of vegetables are
verified in the same line that the cultivation of cotton.

Yerbales When the people are in season, are engaged in profit of the grass, as in everything
else, each which may or reach their forces, and so in other tasks under agriculture, which is
intended for half the time, and the other half to come to their particular fields, and provide
their livelihood. But although regularly said that the Indians left them half the time for
their particular work, as the community curtailed many days, so just be left with the third
part for them.

Indian women regularly engaged in spinning for the community, which are dealt two work week,
or three when the need calls. In each task are given ten ounces cotton to bring three of thread,
and try not otherwise occupied, but in the chances of tents and the like, intended for them, if not all,
the most robust and are not pregnant or parenting, and hoeing will not be exercised in spinning.

Indian
crafts, such as linen weavers, carpenters, rosarieros and others, always remain more out of
habit than useful work in their offices on time they must do for
the community, and the remainder going to their farms, which must
have them, otherwise it could not exist.

Only more weavers remain in their offices, which is not allowed to depart until the conclusion
of the piece started, and then given five yards of cloth and one or two weeks off, to go to their
farms, and then return to their occupation.

A people who have 300 Indians working, and corresponding number of Indian boys and girls, with an
administrator of conduct, you can regulate the harvest of a good
year in the following fruits: 800 pounds of cotton, as many of grass,
100 bushels of wheat, 200 of all other species of grain, including
corn, 50 pounds of snuff, as many groups, and 15,000 yards of linen.



"There's only one right," she said. "I don't know how many wrongs there are--and I don't want
to know!"

"No," answered Brook, gravely enough. "And there is no reason why you ever should."

CHAPTER VII

"You seemed to be most tremendously in earnest yesterday, when we were talking about that book,"
observed Brook on the following afternoon.

"Of course I was," answered Clare. "I said just what I thought."

They were walking together along the high road which leads from Amalfi towards Salerno. It
is certainly one of the most beautiful roads in Europe, and in the whole world. The chain of
rocky heights dashes with wild abruptness from its five thousand feet straight to the dark-blue
sea, bristling with sharp needles and spikes of stone, rough with a chaos of brown boulders,
cracked from peak to foot with deep torn gorges. In each gorge nestles a garden of orange and
lemons and pomegranates, and out of the stones there blows a perfume of southern blossom through
all the month of May. The sea lies dark and clear below, ever tideless, often still as a woodland
pool; then, sometimes, it rises suddenly in deep-toned wrath, smiting the face of the cliff,
booming through the low-mouthed caves, curling its great green curls and combing them out to
frothing ringlets along the strips of beach, winding itself about the rock of Conca in a heavily
gleaming sheet and whirling its wraith of foam to heaven, the very ghost of storm.

And in the face of those rough rocks, high above the water, is hewn a way that leads round
the mountain's base, many miles along it, over the sharp-jutting spurs, and in between the
boulders and the needles, down into the gardens of the gorges and past the dark towers whence
watchmen once descried the Saracen's ill-boding sail and sent up their warning beacon of smoke
by day and fire by night.

It is the most beautiful road in the world, in its infinite variety, in the grandeur above
and the breadth below, and the marvellous rich sweetness of the deep gardens--passing as it
does out of wilderness into splendour, out of splendour into wealth of colour and light and
odour, and again out to the rugged strength of the loneliness beyond.

Clare and Johnstone had exchanged idle phrases for a while, until they had passed Atrani and
the turn where the new way leads up to Ravello, and were fairly out on the road. They were
both glad to be out together and walking, for Clare had grown stronger, and was weary of always
sitting on the terrace, and Johnstone was tired of taking long walks alone, merely for the
sake of being hungry afterwards, and of late had given it up altogether. Mrs. Bowring herself
was glad to be alone for once, and made little or no objection, and so the two had started
in the early afternoon.

Johnstone's remark had been premeditated, for his curiosity had been aroused on the preceding
day by Clare's words and manner. But after she had given him her brief answer she said no more,
and they walked on in silence for a few moments.

"Yes," said Johnstone at last, as though he had been reflecting, "you generally say what you
think. I didn't doubt it at the time. But you seem rather hard on the men. Women are all angels,
of course--"

"Not at all!" interrupted Clare. "Some of us are quite the contrary."

"Well, it's a generally accepted thing, you know. That's what I mean. But it isn't generally
accepted that men are. If you take men into consideration at all, you must make some allowances."

"I don't see why. You are much stronger than we are. You all think that you have much more
pride. You always say that you have a sense of honour which we can't understand. I should think
that with all those advantages you would be much too proud to insist upon our making allowances
for you."

"That's rather keen, you know," answered Brook, with a laugh. "All the same, it's a woman's
occupation to be good, and a man has a lot of other things to do besides. That's the plain
English of it. When a woman isn't good she falls. When a man is bad, he doesn't--it's his nature."

"Oh--if you begin by saying that all men are bad! That's an odd way out of it."

"Not at all. Good men and bad women are the exceptions, that's all--in the way you mean goodness
and badness."

"And how do you think I mean goodness and badness? It seems to me that you are taking a great
deal for granted, aren't you?"

"Oh, I don't know," said Brook, growing vague on a sudden. "Those are rather hard things to
talk about."

"I like to talk about them. How do you think I understand those two words?"

"I don't know," repeated Johnstone, still more vaguely. "I suppose your theory is that men
and women are exactly equal, and that a man shouldn't do what a woman ought not to do--and
all that, you know. I don't exactly know how to put it."

"I don't see why what is wrong for a woman should be right for a man," said Clare. "The law
doesn't make any difference, does it? A man goes to prison for stealing or forging, and so
does a woman. I don't see why society should make any distinction about other things. If there
were a law against flirting, it would send the men to prison just like the women, wouldn't it?"

"What an awful idea!" laughed Brook.

"Yes, but in theory--"

"Oh, in theory it's all right. But in practice we men are not wrapped in cotton and tied up
with pink ribbons from the day we are born to the day we are married. I--I don't exactly know
how to explain what I mean, but that's the general idea. Among poor people--I believe one mustn't
say the lower classes any more--well, with them it isn't quite the same. The women don't get
so much care and looking after, when they are young, you know--that sort of thing. The consequence
is, that there's much more equality between men and women. I believe the women are worse, and
the men are better--it's my opinion, at all events. I dare say it isn't worth much. It's only
what I see at home, you know."

"But the working people don't flirt!" exclaimed Clare. "They drink, and that sort of thing--"

"Yes, lots of them drink, men and women. And as for flirting--they don't call it flirting,
but in their way I dare say it's very much the same thing. Only, in our part of the country,
a man who flirts, if you call it so, gets just as bad a name as a woman. You see, they have
all had about the same bringing up. But with us it's quite different. A girl is brought up
in a cage, like a turtle dove, with nothing to do except to be good, while a boy is sent to
a public school when he is eleven or twelve, which is exactly the same as sending him to hell,
except that he has the certainty of getting away."

"But boys don't learn to flirt at Eton," observed the young girl.

"Well--no," answered Johnstone. "But they learn everything else, except Latin and Greek, and
they go to a private tutor to learn those things before they go to the university."

"You mean that they learn to drink and gamble, and all that?" asked Clare.

"Oh--more or less--a little of everything that does no good--and then you expect us afterwards
to be the same as you are, who have been brought up by your mothers at home. It isn't fair,
you know."

"No," answered Clare, yielding. "It isn't fair. That strikes me as the best argument you have
used yet. But it doesn't make it right, for all that. And why shouldn't men be brought up to
be good, just as women are?"

Brook laughed.

"That's quite another matter. Only a paternal government could do that--or a maternal government.
We haven't got either, so we have to do the best we can. I only state the fact, and you are
obliged to admit it. I can't go back to the reason. The fact remains. In certain ways, at a
certain age, all men as a rule are bad, and all women, on the whole, are good. Most of you
know it, and you judge us accordingly and make allowances. But you yourself don't seem inclined
to be merciful. Perhaps you'll be less hard-hearted when you are older."

"I'm not hard-hearted!" exclaimed Clare, indignantly. "I'm only just. And I shall always be
the same, I'm sure."

"If I were a Frenchman," said Brook, "I should be polite, and say that I hoped so. As I'm not,
and as it would be rude to say that I didn't believe it, I'll say nothing. Only to be what
you call just, isn't the way to be liked, you know."

"I don't want to be liked," Clare answered, rather sharply. "I hate what are called popular
people!"

"So do I. They are generally awful bores, don't you know? They want to keep the thing up and
be liked all the time."

"Well--if one likes people at all, one ought to like them all the time," objected Clare, with
unnecessary contrariety.

"That was the original point," observed Brook. "That was your objection to the man in the book--that
he loved first one sister and then the other. Poor chap! The first one loved him, and the second
one prayed for him! He had no luck!"

"A man who will do that sort of thing is past praying for!" retorted the young girl. "It seems
to me that when a man makes a woman believe that he loves her, the best thing he can do is
to be faithful to her afterwards."

"Yes--but supposing that he is quite sure that he can't make her happy--"

"Then he had no right to make love to her at all."

"But he didn't know it at first. He didn't find out until he had known her a long time."

"That makes it all the worse," exclaimed Clare with conviction, but without logic.

"And while he was trying to find out, she fell in love with him," continued Brook. "That was
unlucky, but it wasn't his fault, you know--"

"Oh yes, it was--in that book at least. 

In this coming toward us from the top of the site, whose homes, like those of all mountain areas,
have no rhyme or reason to each other, a girl of good picture, with a highly polished copper
cauldron on his head, and a clay pitcher in each hand. The TARUMBA, after meeting her, he winked
at me, turned back and told me while carrying on snuff his pipe

- That's Tanasi.

- Who is Tanasi? - I asked myself.

- The eldest daughter of Toperu - he answered.

- Who is the Toperu? - He inquired.

- Pos is the father of Tanasi
... Come the monsoon Chiscu courting.

- Aha - I cried watching her
carefully, because time was passing in front us.

The monsoon, which had assumed something of what we were discussing
the TARUMBA and I became very red and smiled, lowering her eyes to
give us good morning.

Heart praised the good taste Chisco, and I explained well the molehill.

-
Well, what the hell you want for your daughter? - Asked TARUMBA.

-
One such Pepazus - I said it -.

A mozallón as a cajigu, which removes two hazas of a cave, eats cuatru Cavone, and unless
the pump unless it tenemus moriu ahead. You say you have the Toperu this hobby, not because
I am able to juralu that as Nah, you, sir Don Marcelu, can ponder me and what I will or that come
in these canteens?

Putting up at the doctor's house, who wished to pay his visit that day, despedíme the TARUMBA, but
it, cutting by half the dismissal, she said she "gypsy he was also because both houses were
full, and his doctor, just opposite, and cast to walk beside me. We spent an alley with many
Bardales, and lead to a square green land and contoured for the most part died with ivy and elders,
said my companion, pointing to the left and bottom of a bag that was there for two enclosures,
one of 'busquizal "(thick bush) and a crumbling wall between weeds:

- This is my home.

And turning to the opposite side, he added, while pointing to another
that closed the square there:

- And this is the méicu.

The house snuggled TARUMBA the wall on one side of ruin, and there
was with him at pains and losses and the harnesses from the owner.

With these thoughts in his head, looked at TARUMBA without saying
anything, but he must have read it to me in the face that I put, because
I said right away:

- No espanti of EYU, because it's metal or wood. But that needn't prevent our walking
together, and talking, and all that. At least, I don't mean that it should. That's the reason
why I won't turn back just yet--"

"But how in the world can you enjoy walking and talking with a man you don't like?" asked Johnstone,
who was completely at sea, and began to think that he must be dreaming.

"Well--you are awfully good company, you know, and I can't always be sitting with my mother
on the terrace, though we love each other dearly."

"You are the most extraordinary person!" exclaimed Johnstone, in genuine bewilderment. "And
of course your mother dislikes me too, doesn't she?"

"Not at all," answered Clare. "You asked me that before, and I told you the truth. Since then,
she likes you better and better. She is always saying how nice you are."

"Then I had better always talk to her," suggested Brook, feeling for a clue.

"Oh, I shouldn't like that at all!" cried the young girl, laughing.

"And yet you don't like me. This is like twenty questions. You must have some very particular
reason for it," he added thoughtfully. "I suppose I must have done some awful thing without
knowing it. I wish you would tell me. Won't you, please? Then I'll go away."

"No," Clare answered. "I won't tell you. But I have a reason. I'm not capricious. I don't take
violent dislikes to people for nothing. Let it alone. We can talk very pleasantly about other
things. Since you are good enough to like me, it might be amusing to tell me why. If you have
any good reason, you know, you won't stop liking me just because I don't like you, will you?"

She glanced sideways at him as she spoke, and he was watching her and trying to understand
her, for the revelation of her dislike had come upon him very suddenly. She was on the right
as they walked, and he saw her against the light sky, above the line of the low parapet. Perhaps
the light behind her dazzled him; at all events, he had a strange impression for a moment.
She seemed to have the better of him, and to be stronger and more determined than he. She seemed
taller than she was, too, for she was on the higher part of the road, in the middle of it.
For an instant he felt precisely what she so often felt with him, that she had power over him.
But he did not resent the sensation as she did, though it was quite as new to him.

Nevertheless, he did not answer her, for she had spoken only half in earnest, and he himself
was not just then inclined to joke for the mere sake of joking. He looked down at the road
under his feet, and he knew all at once that Clare attracted him much more than he had imagined.
The sidelong glance she had bestowed upon him had fascination in it. There was an odd charm
about her girlish contrariety and in her frank avowal that she did not like him. Her dislike
roused him. He did not choose to be disliked by her, especially for some absurd trifle in his
behaviour, which he had not even noticed when he had made the mistake, whatever it might be.

He walked along in silence, and he was aware of her light tread and the soft sound of her serge
skirt as she moved. He wished her to like him, and wished that he knew what to do to change
her mind. But that would not be easy, since he did not know the cause of her dislike. Presently
she spoke again, and more gravely.

"I should not have said that. I'm sorry. But of course you knew that I wasn't in earnest."

"I don't know why you should not have said it," he answered. "As a matter of fact, you are
quite right. I don't like you any the less because you don't like me. Liking isn't a bargain
with cash on delivery. I think I like you all the more for being so honest. Do you mind?"

"Not in the least. It's a very good reason." Clare smiled, and then suddenly looked grave again,
wondering whether it would not be really honest to tell him then and there that she had overheard
his last interview with Lady Fan.

But she reflected that it could only make him feel uncomfortable.

"And another reason why I like you is because you are combative," he said thoughtfully. "I'm
not, you know. One always admires the qualities one hasn't oneself."

"And you are not combative? You don't like to be in the opposition?"

"Not a bit! I'm not fond of fighting. I systematically avoid a row."

"I shouldn't have thought that," said Clare, looking at him again. "Do you know? I think most
people would take you for a soldier."

"Do I look as though I would seek the bubble reputation at the cannon's mouth?" Brook laughed.
"Am I full of strange oaths?"

"Oh, that's ridiculous, you know!" exclaimed Clare. "I mean, you look as though you would fight."

"I never would if I could help it. And so far I have managed 'to help it' very well. I'm naturally
mild, I think. You are not, you know. I don't mean to be rude, but I think you are pugnacious--'combative'
is prettier."

"My father was a soldier," said the girl, with some pride.

"And mine is a brewer. There's a lot of inheritable difference between handling gunpowder and
brewing mild ale. Like father, like son. I shall brew mild ale too. If you could have charged
at Balaclava, you would. By the way, it isn't the beer that you object to? Please tell me.
I shouldn't mind at all, and I'd much rather know that it was only that."

"How absurd!" cried Clare with scorn. "As though it made any difference!"

"Well--what is it, then?" asked Brook with sudden impatience. "You have no right to hate me
without telling me why."

"No right?" The young girl turned on him half fiercely, and then laughed. "You haven't a standing
order from Heaven to be liked by the whole human race, you know!"

"And if I had, you would be the solitary exception, I suppose," suggested Johnstone with a
rather discontented smile.

"Perhaps."

"Is there anything I could do to make you change your mind? Because, if it were anything in
reason, I'd do it."

"It's rather a pity that you should put in the condition of its being in reason," answered
Clare, as her lip curled. "But there isn't anything. You may just as well give it up at once."

"I won't."

"It's a waste of time, I assure you. Besides, it's mere vanity. It's only because everybody
likes you--so you think that I should too."

"Between us, we are getting at my character at last," observed Brook with some asperity. "You've
discovered my vanity, now. By-and-by we shall find out some more good qualities."

"Perhaps. Each one will be a step in our acquaintance, you know. Steps may lead down, as well
as up. We are walking down hill on this road just now, and it's steep. Look at that unfortunate
mule dragging that cart up hill towards us! That's like trying to be friends, against odds.
I wish the man would not beat the beast like that, though! What brutes these people are!"

Her dark blue eyes fixed themselves keenly on the sight, and the pupils grew wide and angry.
The cart was a hundred yards away, coming up the road, piled high with sacks of potatoes, and
drawn by one wretched mule. The huge carter was sprawling on the front sacks, yelling a tuneless
chant at the top of his voice. He was a black-haired man, with a hideous mouth, and his face
was red with wine. As he yelled his song he flogged his miserable beast with a heavy whip,
accenting his howls with cruel blows. Clare grew pale with anger as she came nearer and saw
it all more distinctly. The mule's knees bent nearly double at every violent step, its wide
eyes were bright red all round, its white tongue hung out, and it gasped for breath. The road
was stony, too, besides being steep, for it had been lately mended and not rolled.

"Brute!" exclaimed Clare, in a low voice, and her face grew paler.

Johnstone said nothing, and his face did not change as they advanced.

"Don't you see?" cried the young girl. "Can't you do anything? Can't you stop him?"

"Oh yes. I think I can do that," answered Brook indifferently. "It is rather rough on the mule."

"Rough! It's brutal, it's beastly, it's cowardly, it's perfectly inhuman!"

At that moment the unfortunate animal stumbled, struggled to recover itself as the lash descended
pitilessly upon its thin flanks, and then fell headlong and tumbled upon its side. The heavy
cart pulled back, half turning, so that the shafts were dragged sideways across the mule, whose
weight prevented the load from rolling down hill. The carrier stopped singing and swore, beating
the beast with all his might, as it lay still gasping for breath.

"Ah, assassin! Ah, carrion! I will teach thee! Curses on the dead of thy house!" he roared.

Brook and Clare were coming nearer.

"That's not very intelligent of the fellow," observed Johnstone indifferently. "He had much
better get down."

"Oh, stop it, stop it!" cried the young girl, suffering acutely for the helpless creature.

But the man had apparently recognised the impossibility of producing any impression unless
he descended from his perch. He threw the whip to the ground and slid off the sacks. He stood
looking at the mule for a moment, and then kicked it in the back with all his might. Then,
just as Johnstone and Clare came up, he went round to the back of the cart, walking unsteadily,
for he was evidently drunk. The two stopped by the parapet and looked on.

"He's going to unload," said Johnstone. "That's sensible, at all events."

The sacks, as usual in Italy, were bound to the cart by cords, which were fast in front, but
which wound upon a heavy spindle at the back. The spindle had three holes in it, in which staves
were thrust as levers, to turn it and hold the ropes taut. Two of the staves were tightly pressed
against the load, while the third stood nearly upright in its hole.

The man took the third stave, a bar of elm four feet long and as thick as a man's wrist, and
came round to the mule again on the side away from Clare and Johnstone. He lifted the weapon
high in air, and almost before they realised what horror he was perpetrating he had struck
three or four tremendous blows upon the creature's back, making as many bleeding wounds. The
mule kicked and shivered violently, and its eyes were almost starting from its head.

Johnstone came up first, caught the stave in air as it was about to descend again, wrenched
it out of the man's hands, and hurled it over Clare's head, across the parapet and into the
sea. The man fell back a step, and his face grew purple with rage. He roared out a volley of
horrible oaths, in a dialect perfectly incomprehensible even to Clare, who knew Italian well.

"You needn't yell like that, my good man," said Johnstone, smiling at him.

The man was big and strong, and drunk. He clenched his fists, and made for his adversary, head
down, in the futile Italian fashion. The Englishman stepped aside, landed a left-handed blow
behind his ear, and followed it up with a tremendous kick, which sent the fellow upon his face
in the ditch under the rocks. Clare looked on, and her eyes brightened singularly, for she
had fighting blood in her veins. The man seemed stunned, and lay still where he had fallen.
Johnstone turned to the fallen mule, which lay bleeding and gasping under the shafts, and he
began to unbuckle the harness.

"Could you put a big stone behind the wheel?" he asked, as Clare tried to help him.

He knew that the cart must roll back if it were not blocked, for he had noticed how it stood.
Clare looked about for a stone, picked one up by the roadside, and went to the back of the
cart, while Johnstone patted the mule's head, and busied himself with the buckles of the harness,
bending low as he did so. Clare also bent down, trying to force the stone under the wheel,
and did not notice that the carter was sitting up by the roadside, feeling for something in
his pocket.

An instant later he was on his feet. When Clare stood up, he was stepping softly up behind
Johnstone. As he moved, she saw that he had an open clasp-knife in his right hand. Johnstone
was still bending down unconscious of his danger. The young girl was light on her feet and
quick, and not cowardly. The man was before her, halfway between her and Brook. She sprang
with all her might, threw her arms round the drunken man's neck from behind, and dragged him
backward. He struck wildly behind him with the knife, and roared out curses.

"Quick!" cried Clare, in her high, clear voice. "He's got a knife! Quick!"

But Johnstone had heard their steps, and was already upon him from before, while the young
girl's arms tightened round his neck from behind. The fellow struck about him wildly with his
blade, staggering backwards as Clare dragged upon him.

"Let go, or you'll fall!" Brook shouted to her.

As he spoke, dodging the knife, he struck the man twice in the face, left and right, in an
earnest, business-like way. Clare caught herself by the wheel of the cart as she sprang aside,
almost falling under the man's weight. A moment later, Brook was kneeling on his chest, having
the knife in his hand and holding it near the carter's throat.

"Lie still!" he said rather quietly, in English. "Give me the halter, please!" he said to Clare,
without looking up. "It's hanging to the shaft there in a coil."

Kneeling on the man's chest--to tell the truth, he was badly stunned, though not unconscious--Brook
took two half-hitches with the halter round one wrist, passed the line under his neck as he
lay, and hauled on it till the arm came under his side, then hitched the other wrist, passed
the line back, hauled on it, and finally took two turns round the throat. Clare watched the
operation, very pale and breathing hard.

"He's drunk," observed Johnstone. "Otherwise I wouldn't tie him up, you know. Now, if you move,"
he said in English to his prisoner, "you'll strangle yourself."

Thereupon he rose, forced the fellow to roll over, and hitched the fall of the line round both
wrists again, and made it fast, so that the man lay, with his head drawn back by his own hands,
which he could not move without tightening the rope round his neck.

"He's frightened now," said Brook. "Let's get the poor mule out of that."

In a few minutes he got the wretched beast free. It was ready enough to rise as soon as it
felt that it could do so, and it struggled to its feet, badly hurt by the beating and bleeding
in many places, but not seriously injured. The carter watched them as he lay on the road, half
strangled, and cursed them in a choking voice.

"And now, what in the world are we going to do with them?" asked Brook, rubbing the mule's
nose. "It's a pretty bad case," he continued, thoughtfully. "The mule can't draw the load,
the carter can't be allowed to beat the mule, and we can't afford to let the carter have his
head. What the dickens are we to do?"

He laughed a little. Then he suddenly looked hard at Clare, as though remembering something.

"It was awfully plucky of you to jump on him in that way," he said. "Just at the right moment,
too, by Jove! That devil would have got at me if you hadn't stopped him. Awfully plucky, upon
my word! And I'm tremendously obliged, Miss Bowring, indeed I am!"

"It's nothing to be grateful for, it seems to me," Clare answered. "I suppose there's nothing
to be done but to sit down and wait until somebody comes. It's a lonely road, of course, and
we may wait a long time."

"I say," exclaimed Johnstone, "you've torn your frock rather badly! Look at it!"

She drew her skirt round with her hand. There were long, clean rents in the skirt, on her right
side.

"It was his knife," she said, thoughtfully surveying the damage. "He kept trying to get at
me with it. I'm sorry, for I haven't another serge skirt with me."

Then she felt herself blushing, and turned away.

"I'll just pin it up," she said, and she disappeared behind the cart rather precipitately.

"By Jove! You have pretty good nerves!" observed Johnstone, more to himself than to her. "Shut
up!" he cried to the carter, who was swearing again. "Stop that noise, will you?"

He made a step angrily towards the man, for the sight of the slit frock had roused him again,
when he thought what the knife might have done. The fellow was silent instantly, and lay quite
still, for he knew that he should strangle himself if he moved.

"I'll have you in prison before night," continued Johnstone, speaking English to him. "Oh yes!
the carabinieri will come, and you will go to galera--do you understand that?"

He had picked up the words somewhere. The man began to moan and pray.

"Stop that noise!" cried Brook, with slow emphasis.

He was not far wrong in saying that the carabineers would come. They patrol the roads day and
night, in pairs, as they patrol every high road and every mountain path in Italy, all the year
round. And just then, far up the road down which Johnstone and Clare had come, two of them
appeared in sight, recognisable a mile away by their snow-white crossbelts and gleaming accoutrements.
There are twelve or fourteen thousand of them in the country, trained soldiers and picked men,
by all odds the finest corps in the army. Until lately no man could serve in the carabineers
who could not show documentary evidence that neither he nor his father nor his mother had ever
been in prison even for the smallest offence. They are feared and respected, and it is they
who have so greatly reduced brigandage throughout the country.

Clare came back to Johnstone's side, having done what she could to pin the rents together.

"It's all right now," she cried. "Here come the carabineers. They will take the man and his
cart to the next village. Let me talk to them--I can speak Italian, you know."

She was pale again, and very quiet. 

Dear Sir

Although my desire and obligation to serve you have encouraged me to join as soon as news relationship
you left me in charge as he left these villages after of verified their astronomical observations,
my many occupations, which have been notorious, I have kept for some time the occupation applied
to this tasty, but finally, in intervals that the affairs of my duty let me free, and stealing some
times to the precise my rest time, certain applications with determination and tenacity, not
to delay further what maybe he will be doing the work needed to improve. Something will be
expanded this role; But all the news that I heap on it, you may choose the ones that are more
necessary, and discard the less necessary, and if you are including some that may be useful to
the King's service, either of these natives, or enlargement of the state, may you make use of
them in the terms it deems appropriate, because I feel sorry to see a province as rich as this,
and that neither King nor its inhabitants enjoy conveniences and advances that are being offered.

If
my intent was to give you a complete history of this province, it
must begin at least since the natives were reduced populations, and
describe the different to sites at various times have been moved more
than people with other particularities and news that make entertaining
reading.

This called for a long time to examine There are various writings about it, join the tradition
of natural and sorting as much as the truth, discard what has been introduced by the will or interest
writers, but still not my intention other than to instruct you in those news which conceptualizes
may agree, or the benefit of these natural and real increase Treasury, I will stick to only that
which I think leads to this purpose, and if you would add to his for other individuals some news,
you ask me, with the assurance that no forgive fatigue or diligence to get the suit you.

Their attentive and faithful servant, GONZALO DOUBLE.

Part One

         Description of the country, its
                inhabitants and productions

The province of Misiones is located
between 26 º and 30 º south latitude, and between the 319 º and 323
º of longitude, counting from the island of Ferro.

It consists of thirty villages of Indian Guaraní nation, commonly
called Tapes, their numbers among all peoples amounted year 1717 to
121,168 souls, in thirty-one reductions that had previously, according
to referred to as Father Juan Patricio Fernández, of the Society of
Jesus in his historical relationship of the Chiquitos.

The year of 1744 there were thirty people in there are at present
84,606 souls, as they are numbered in a printed map of this province
in Vienna.

At the time of expulsion of the Jesuits, priests of these villages, there were over 100,000
souls, and this can be computed, which are numbered at 60,000 souls, and more than 8 or 10,000
who are not registered, because they go fugitives of their own people, scattered in the same
province, and beyond, in the jurisdictions of Paraguay, Corrientes, Santa Fe, Buenos Aires, Montevideo,
Arroyo de la China, Gualeguay and elsewhere. Temperament is mild and healthy, and even distinguishes
between winter and summer, neither another is rigorous, happening in this province which is common
to Buenos Aires and Paraguay, to experience many days of heat in the cold of winter and cold
in others summer. Air is more humid than dry, because of the many forests and rivers, and
towns immediate experience they frequent fogs in winter, which lasts until 10 a day. Hurricanes
are frequent, and more thunderstorms, which fall some sparks, and not experience earthquakes.
The land is regularly bent, not found high elevation hills, plains or enlarged, nor is mountainous,
and that principle between the Paraná and Uruguay, near the towns of San José and Santa Ana,
from by the Martyrs, and heading east, the Corpus and San Xavier are low elevation, and all
are covered by dense forests inaccessible. In the rest of the province there are many islands
of trees, some on the tops of the hillocks and others in the lower ground and banks of streams
and rivers, leaving the rest of the land entirely clean, so that where there are trees is so thick
from the shore, and so weedy, it is very difficult going into them, and discovered land hardly
see a tree. In these forests, and in those who are on high as in valleys and ravines, are many
trees of various species, with regard to construction boats, houses and furniture factories,
some very precious, that to specify all needed a neat relationship that I miss, because even
with that you know that wood and wild fruits are these mountains around them with the Province
of Paraguay. No However, if you need extensive news of them all, with the notice and will form
then forward.

Throughout the province through the two great rivers Paraná and Uruguay, approaching each other from
Corpus Candelaria Parana, and from San Xavier to about Apostles Uruguay, so that between one
and one only half of 15 to 18 league common. In many of them empty creeks and streams, within
the same province have their origin and purpose are to promote agriculture to the benefit of
irrigated, so these streams, as many sources are everywhere, owe their origin to a large or small
dam, according to the flow spring that is formed.

The quality of the soil is clayey, mixed with silt or earth hortense far Emery and some sand,
its color is red almost like ocher, and only in some shallows land is Black, who apparently
is composed of plant residues by moisture sites grow and multiply
there than elsewhere.

It is also very rocky and generally fertile, mainly on the slopes of the hills near the mountains
and the pinks, and yet how little the natives cultivate the land for planting, collecting abundant
crops, particularly of all kinds of vegetables. Wheat, but not go as far as in Buenos Aires, yet
they collect good harvests, with usually ten to one. The rice grows well, and comes with plenty,
the corn as well, and everything is grown produce well. The same happens with other marketable fruit.
Grass trees named the Paraguay, are kept well in the same villages, and everyone has them some immediate
yerbales who have planted and cultivated, of which benefit every
year for its spending, and send to Buenos Aires.

These natural to them is much easier and convenient to residents of Paraguay, yerba mate extract
of large tracts of wild grass, because, well to be not far from the mountains, they bring the comfort
of the rivers. The cotton breeds well and produces in abundance, cane sugar, although not as
general as in Paraguay, in some towns better crop in that province. Cocoa is not Comparison of better
quality that benefits in these villages in Paraguay. Indigo grows very lush, but so far as
is known, because there is no one who benefits. Sweet potatoes and cassava are the main line for
the food of these natives, and in so, how many seeds are thrown to the ground produce in abundance,
so that, if there stimulus to force men to apply to agriculture, would not be wanting all year
in many vegetable gardens are reflected in the other countries at various stations year. The same
goes for fruit, all fruit and fruit are grown well, particularly oranges and lemons, which grow
to an excessive corpulence. The vines are grown well, and give very good grapes, and other times
it has made some wine in the villages that have attempted, particularly in the village of Cross,
which it appears was done fairly and very good at the time of the ex-Jesuits. The livestock
of all species are preserved and multiplied very well, and, finally, by how many sides will look
at these areas will find the most fertile and better proportions to form a province of more
trader, and therefore if not richer, at least the most comfortable of the whole colony.

Paraná immediately in one and another band, near the towns of Candelaria and Santa Ana, there
exquisite copper mines, but even if they worked after the expulsion, were abandoned, because not
enough profits to cover the costs, and although it ensures that there of mercury and other
metals, I have not seen evidence that convinces me of its existence. There are also mines in many
places far superior crystal, it breeds in the heart flint holes of various sizes, and grow in
my opinion. There are recessed the rocks around the inner circumference as the grains of a pomegranate,
but leaving hollow in the center, to which all end in a point with various surfaces, so alike that it
seems art that have been placed and carved. Some of these stones are purple, so diaphanous and
hard that I have no doubt they are fine amethysts, and it is believed that, if in the places
where are in the earth's surface look within, maybe they would find some value.

Throughout the province there are quarries of stone buildings, very docile and great styling consistency
to stay. Of these quarries former Jesuits took some columns further four yards long, very solid
and very well surface, in some are Property stones of slate, consisting
of several veins that are very disjointed easily, forming slabs surface
as well as style them is not necessary.

On the porch the church of San Ignacio Mini are three of these slabs, the largest has more than
fifteen long and ten feet wide, and the other two are slightly lower. Another kind of stone are very
rough, but extremely easy to carve, and according to their weight and some signs of vein it
seems iron, and is the most commonly used in the walls of buildings.

The medicinal herbs found are many, the Indians used in their illnesses, giving them names in
their language, but the benefit of their knowledge can not be achieved Meanwhile usefully clever
is not intended to discover their strengths and determine their uses.

Of the items most needed conservation and comfort of men are only two in this province, who are
the salt and lime, the stock must first of Buenos Aires or Paraguay, and the second is supplied
to launder the churches and houses, with snails large charred, that
is in the fields in great abundance, and of them is exquisite cal,
but it only reaches to bleach and no more.

In this province are very few insects that annoy men. Fleas, bedbugs and lice are rare. Hardly
see any mosquitoes in the rooms, although the field there are several species of animals and
bother people. The only trouble there in the villages is called the shafts, which are insects that
are introduced by the skin on the feet, then take their species increase and multiply prodigiously,
but well as the ease of extracting, in having a little toilet in the rooms are passed many
months without experiencing this inconvenience.

There are also many species of snakes, and some deadly poison, but not as many as they say, and
in villages rarely see any.

In the mountains and fields are bred tigers, leopards, foxes, elk
and ostriches, but they not usually bother the men.

There are also many special birds such as parrots, which there are many species, macaws, toucans
crows and white, the latter are the size of a dove, and long beak has a sesma rod, and two inches
in thickness; is also very abundant wood-pigeons, doves, ducks great and small, and many birds small
grocery.

The climate is so healthy that is just another one that is more, even to outsiders; Only those
who indulge in the vice of incontinence experienced the ravages of venereal disease that the
natives are quite touched, even if they do not experience strong effects in Spanish, and although
in some seasons, particularly in the fall experienced intermittent fevers, Chuccho called here,
are so little malice if anyone dies for lack of attendance. Only smallpox and measles are the cause
horrific damage, it is that they come in part from that, spending many years not experienced these
epidemics, they wrestle, as few people live that have had, and soon
the contagion spreads, who is not attending the sick, because fleeing
all reported to them, with not much to die almost all, with wonder
some to escape the efforts of nature.

I sympathize with much of the misery suffer in sickness, and though I have tried to provide
the assistance that I have seemed appropriate for relief in all their
ailments, I have not been able to get as I wanted, because the patients
are destined to consume the same by whose hand is supplied, without
having sufficient means few orders and I imagined for avoided.

In all this province and I have not seen news is no mad or insane, are rare the lame and flawed
and not experienced many chronic diseases.

This province is composed of people, all so similar to each other
than seen are seen one other, and although you have seen, I send the
plane of the Candelaria and Conception so that you can satisfy the
curiosity of others.

Their houses are of brick, with the exception of San Cosme and Jesus, that most are made of straw.
The figure of the buildings or houses of the Indians is that of a barn from 50 to 60 yards long
and 10 wide, including runners who are in shape, are very low, and each barn is divided into
8 or 10 divisions.


"Oh no! Indeed I don't. Libel means saying things against people, doesn't it? I haven't done
that--"

"Indeed you have! I mean, I beg your pardon for contradicting you like that--"

"Rather flatly," observed Clare, as they turned in their walk, and their eyes met.

"Well, I'm sorry, but since we are talking about it, I've got to say what I think. After all,
I'm the person attacked. I have a right to defend myself."

"I haven't attacked you," answered the young girl, gravely.

"I won't be rude, if I can help it," said Brook, half roughly. "But I asked you if you disliked
me for something I had done or said, and you couldn't deny it. That means that I have done
or said something bad enough to make you say that you will never be my friend--and that must
be something very bad indeed."

"Then you think I'm not squeamish? It would have to be something very, very bad."

"Yes."

"Thank you. Well, I thought it very bad. Anybody would, I should fancy."

"I never did anything very, very bad, so you must be mistaken," answered Johnstone, exasperated.

Clare said nothing, but walked along with her head rather high, looking straight before her.
It had all happened before her eyes, on the very ground under her feet, on that platform. Johnstone
knew that he had spoken roughly.

"I say," he began, "was I rude? I'm awfully sorry." Clare stopped and stood still.

"Mr. Johnstone, we sha'n't agree. I will never tell you, and you will never be satisfied unless
I do. So it's a dead-lock."

"You are horribly unjust," answered Brook, very much in earnest, and fixing his bright eyes
on hers. "You seem to take a delight in tormenting me with this imaginary secret. After all,
if it's something you saw me do, or heard me say, I must know of it and remember it, so there's
no earthly reason why we shouldn't discuss it."

There was again that fascination in his eyes, and she felt herself yielding.

"I'll say one thing," she said. "I wish you hadn't done it!"

She felt that she could not look away from him, and that he was getting her into his power.
The colour rose in her face.

"Please don't look at me!" she said suddenly, gazing helplessly into his eyes, but his steady
look did not change.

"Please--oh, please look away!" she cried, half-frightened and growing pale again.

He turned from her, surprised at her manner.

"I'm afraid you're not in earnest about this, after all," he said, thoughtfully. "If you meant
what you said, why shouldn't you look at me?"

She blushed scarlet again.

"It's very rude to stare like that!" she said, in an offended tone. "You know that you've got
something--I don't know what to call it--one can't look away when you look at one. Of course
you know it, and you ought not to do it. It isn't nice."

"I didn't know there was anything peculiar about my eyes," said Brook. "Indeed I didn't! Nobody
ever told me so, I'm sure. By Jove!" he exclaimed, "I believe it's that! I've probably done
it before--and that's why you--" he stopped.

"Please don't think me so silly," answered Clare, recovering her composure. "It's nothing of
the sort. As for that--that way you have of looking--I dare say I'm nervous since my illness.
Besides--" she hesitated, and then smiled. "Besides, do you know? If you had looked at me a
moment longer I should have told you the whole thing, and then we should both have been sorry."

"I should not, I'm sure," said Brook, with conviction. "But I don't understand about my looking
at you. I never tried to mesmerise any one--"

"There is no such thing as mesmerism. It's all hypnotism, you know."

"I don't know what they call it. You know what I mean. But I'm sure it's your imagination."

"Oh yes, I dare say," answered the young girl with affected carelessness. "It's merely because
I'm nervous."

"Well, so far as I'm concerned, it's quite unconscious. I don't know--I suppose I wanted to
see in your eyes what you were thinking about. Besides, when one likes a person, one doesn't
think it so dreadfully rude to look at them--at him--I mean, at you--when one is in earnest
about something--does one?"

"I don't know," said Clare. "But please don't do it to me. It makes me feel awfully uncomfortable
somehow. You won't, will you?" she asked, with a sort of appeal. "You would make me tell you
everything--and then I should hate myself."

"But I shouldn't hate you."

"Oh yes, you would! You would hate me for knowing."

"By Jove! It's too bad!" cried Brook. "But as for that," he added humbly, "nothing would make
me hate you."

"Nothing? You don't know!"

"Yes, I do! You couldn't make me change my mind about you. I've grown to--to like you a great
deal too much for that in this short time--a great deal more than is good for me, I believe,"
he added, with a sort of rough impulsiveness. "Not that I'm at all surprised, you know," he
continued with an attempt at a laugh. "One can't see a person like you, most of the day, for
ten days or a fortnight, without--well, you know, admiring you most tremendously--can one?
I dare say you think that might be put into better English. But it's true all the same."

A silence followed. The warm blood mantled softly in the girl's fair cheeks. She was taken
by surprise with an odd little breath of happiness, as it were, suddenly blowing upon her,
whence she knew not. It was so utterly new that she wondered at it, and was not conscious of
the faint blush that answered it.

"One gets awfully intimate in a few days," observed Brook, as though he had discovered something
quite new.

She nodded, but said nothing, and they still walked up and down. Then his words made her think
of that sudden intimacy which had probably sprung up between him and Lady Fan on board the
yacht, and her heart was hardened again.

"It isn't worth while to be intimate, as you call it," she said at last, with a little sudden
sharpness. "People ought never to be intimate, unless they have to live together--in the same
place, you know. Then they can't exactly help it, I suppose."

"Why should they? One can't exactly intrench oneself behind a wall with pistols and say 'Be
my friend if you dare.' Life would be very uncomfortable, I should think."

"Oh, you know what I mean! Don't be so awfully literal."

"I was trying to understand," said Johnstone, with unusual meekness. "I won't, if you don't
want me to. But I don't agree with you a bit. I think it's very jolly to be intimate--in this
sort of way--or perhaps a little more so."

"Intimate enemies? Enemies can be just as intimate as friends, you know."

"I'd rather have you for my intimate enemy than not know you at all," said Brook.

"That's saying a great deal, Mr. Johnstone."

Again she was pleased in a new way by what he said. And a temptation came upon her unawares.
It was perfectly clear that he was beginning to make love to her. She thought of her reflections
after she had seen him alone with Lady Fan, and of how she had wished that she could break
his heart, and pay him back with suffering for the pain he had given another woman. The possibility
seemed nearer now than then. At least, she could easily let him believe that she believed him,
and then laugh at him and his acting. For of course it was acting. How could such a man be
earnest? All at once the thought that he should respect her so little as to pretend to make
love to her incensed her.

"What an extraordinary idea!" she exclaimed rather scornfully. "You would rather be hated,
than not known!"

"I wasn't talking generalities--I was speaking of you. Please don't misunderstand me on purpose.
It isn't kind."

"Are you in need of kindness just now? You don't exactly strike one in that way, you know.
But your people will be coming in a day or two, I suppose. I've no doubt they'll be kind to
you, as you call it--whatever that may mean. One speaks of being kind to animals and servants,
you know--that sort of thing."

Nothing can outdo the brutality of a perfectly unaffected young girl under certain circumstances.

"I don't class myself with either, thank you," said Brook, justly offended. "You certainly
manage to put things in a new light sometimes. I feel rather like that mule we saw yesterday."

"Oh--I thought you didn't class yourself with animals!" she laughed.

"Have you any particular reason for saying horridly disagreeable things?" asked Brook coldly.

There was a pause.

"I didn't mean to be disagreeable--at least not so disagreeable as all that," said Clare at
last. "I don't know why it is, but you have a talent for making me seem rude."

"Force of example," suggested Johnstone.

"No, I'll say that for you--you have very good manners."

"Thanks, awfully. Considering the provocation, you know, that's an immense compliment."

"I thought I would be 'kind' for a change. By the bye, what are we quarrelling about?" She
laughed. "You began by saying something very nice to me, and then I told you that you were
like the mule, didn't I? It's very odd! I believe you hypnotise me, after all."

"At all events, if we were not intimate, you couldn't possibly say the things you do," observed
Brook, already pacified.

"And I suppose you would not take the things I say, so meekly, would you?"

"I told you I was a very mild person," said Johnstone. "We were talking about it yesterday,
do you remember?"

"Oh yes! And then you illustrated your idea of meekness by knocking down the first man we met."

"It was your fault," retorted Brook. "You told me to stop his beating the mule. So I did. Fortunately
you stopped him from sticking a knife into me. Do you know? You have awfully good nerves. Most
women would have screamed and run up a tree--or something. They would have got out of the way,
at all events."

"I think most women would have done precisely what I did," said Clare. "Why should you say
that most women are cowards?"

"I didn't," answered Brook. "But I refuse to quarrel about it. I meant to say that I admired
you--I mean, what you did--well, more than anything."

"That's a sweeping sort of compliment. Am I to return it?" She glanced at him and smiled.

"You couldn't, with truth."

"Of course I could. I don't remember ever seeing anything of that sort before, but I don't
believe that anybody could have done it better. I admired you more than anything just then,
you know." She laughed once more as she added the last words.

"Oh, I don't expect you to go on admiring me. I'm quite satisfied, and grateful, and all that."

"I'm glad you're so easily satisfied. Couldn't we talk seriously about something or other?
It seems to me that we've been chaffing for half an hour, haven't we?"

"It hasn't been all chaff, Miss Bowring," said Johnstone. "At least, not on my side."

"Then I'm sorry," Clare answered. They relapsed into silence, as they walked their beat, to
and fro. The sun had gone down, and it was already twilight on that side of the mountains.
The rain had cooled the air, and the far land to southward was darkly distinct beyond the purple
water. It was very chilly, and Clare was without a shawl, and Johnstone was hatless, but neither
of them noticed that it was cool. Johnstone was the first to speak.

"Is this sort of thing to go on for ever, Miss Bowring?" he asked gravely.

"What?" But she knew very well what he meant.

"This--this very odd footing we are on, you and I--are we never going to get past it?"

"Oh--I hope not," answered Clare, cheerfully. "I think it's very pleasant, don't you? And most
original. We are intimate enough to say all sorts of things, and I'm your enemy, and you say
you are my friend. I can't imagine any better arrangement. We shall always laugh when we think
of it--even years hence. You will be going away in a few days, and we shall stay here into
the summer and we shall never see each other again, in all probability. We shall always look
back on this time--as something quite odd, you know."

"You are quite mistaken if you think that we shall never meet again," said Johnstone.

"I mean that it's very unlikely. You see we don't go home very often, and when we do we stop
with friends in the country. We don't go much into society. And the rest of the time we generally
live in Florence."

"There is nothing to prevent me from coming to Florence--or living there, if I choose."

"Oh no--I suppose not. Except that you would be bored to death. It's not very amusing, unless
you happen to be fond of pictures, and you never said you were."

"I should go to see you."

"Oh--yes--you could call, and of course if we were at home we should be very glad to see you.
But that would only occupy about half an hour of one day. That isn't much."

"I mean that I should go to Florence simply for the sake of seeing you, and seeing you often--all
the time, in fact."

"Dear me! That would be a great deal, wouldn't it? I thought you meant just to call, don't
you know?"

"I'm in earnest, though it sounds very funny, I dare say," said Johnstone.

"It sounds rather mad," answered Clare, laughing a little. "I hope you won't do anything of
the kind, because I wouldn't see you more than once or twice. I'd have headaches and colds
and concerts--all the things one has when one isn't at home to people. But my mother would
be delighted. She likes you tremendously, you know, and you could go about to galleries together
and read Ruskin and Browning--do you know the Statue and the Bust? And you could go and see
Casa Guidi, where the Brownings lived, and you could drive up to San Miniato, and then, you
know, you could drive up again and read more Browning and more Ruskin. I'm sure you would enjoy
it to any extent. But I should have to go through a terrific siege of colds and headaches.
It would be rather hard on me."

"And harder on me," observed Brook, "and quite fearful for Mrs. Bowring."

"Oh no! She would enjoy every minute of it. You forget that she likes you."

"You are afraid I should forget that you don't."

"I almost--oh, a long way from quite! I almost liked you yesterday when you thrashed the carter
and tied him up so neatly. It was beautifully done--all those knots! I suppose you learned
them on board of the yacht, didn't you?"

"I've yachted a good deal," said Brook.

"Generally with that party?" inquired Clare.

"No. That was the first time. My father has an old tub he goes about in, and we sometimes go
together."

"Is he coming here in his 'old tub'?"

"Oh no--he's lent her to a fellow who has taken her off to Japan, I believe."

"Japan! Is it safe? In an 'old tub'!"

"Oh, well--that's a way of talking, you know. She's a good enough boat, you know. My father
went to New York in her, last year. She's a steamer, you know. I hate steamers. They are such
dirty noisy things! In the most Masses are said to time,
so that those who have these or other impairments can not hear, nor which the people are employed
in keeping the chacarería, which, as was suspicious thefts night and early Mass is said, can
not come to hear, what they might do if the mass most are held at a regular time, although they
were all night in your occupation had time from dawn to come to church without any suspicion.

All
other days of the year, non-provision for the Indians, although they
are for Spanish, two Masses are said at sunrise or earlier, and in
some towns after dawn, so that many are left without hearing if neglected
in early, because of which originate some of the divisions among priests
and administrators.

On all days, although the mass is recited, attend music and sing in the chorus Kyrie, Glory,
Creed and Sanctus, and sing everything being sung Mass, and I play drums and make the same noise
in the holidays.

Every evening they pray the rosary in the church, one hour before the sun sets, in There is
also a difference of some people to others, according to the will of the priest.

Solemnized in the year some parties more special than the others, such as major of Our Lord Jesus
Christ and the Virgin, St. Michael, the Patriarch of the Holy religion
of priests, on the King Our Lord and his birthday.

These days the festival is announced with ringing of bells at noon yesterday, at which time most of
the people attends the church where the priest with the music sings the Magnificat, and later singing
vespers solemn, preceded by the ringing of bells, repeating the prayers and encouragement, as well
as at the dawn of another day, and to convene the mass, which acts in music with more solemnity
than other days, and then executed in the village some public entertainment, and gives some
special interests and other things as mentioned above.

The function that most stands alone amongst these is the patron saint of the village head, for it is
they invite some people's religious immediate, so that on the eve
and Mass dress of deacons and others to assist other ministries of
the altar, is charged in advance the sermon is preached, half and
half in Guaraní in Castilian, whose diligence is carried out the council
and manager, but is reported before the priest, who also attends invite
the religious who are to attend the function and in the time they
arrive the people on the eve of the feast day of receiving them at
the door of the church priests with the ringing of bells and music,
and the same practice with the governor and lieutenant of the department
whether that condition, which can only ceremony abuse excuse being
introduced from time of the Jesuits, that they practiced with their
priests, and that failure to do so now would miss Indians, the rest
of these functions is already said elsewhere.

The next day is celebrated in the towns of this department, available to me, an anniversary for the souls
of the children of the village, with vigil Mass and solemn responsibility, and apply all the religious
who attend Mass that day, paying his fee of the common people.

Easter functions are quite solemnity and devotion, but with little processions decency, so
imperfect and unadorned images of everything serves them. In some towns, processions start from the Monday
of Holy Week, but most common is from Wednesday, this day a later sing in the church of darkness
with all music, with such solemnity as they could in a collegiate, where it is admirable to hear the
lamentations and others singing lessons to kids of eight or ten years
old, Latino-owned but not because they do not understand what they
read, and can not pronounce well Latin or Castilian, because they
lack in the language of the letters L, F and R, rough, but well drawn
and true to the music.

Duran darkness until the prayers, at which time, while the Miserere mei Deus, closed the doors and turned
off the lights, hit rigorously the Indians soon after talk of passion is in the Guarani language,
which was ended, the available to the procession in this way.

Images ready to be out in the procession, and early music through church, go through the door,
falling into the courtyard of the school, several boys dressed with Sotanillo and surplices
of servers, with the instruments and symbols of the Passion of Christ. Enter one of these
with the lantern, and two sides with two lanterns made of cloth bowels of the bulls, placed at
the tip of long stalks, kneels before the image is in the midst of the church, and meanwhile
the music sings a motet in Guarani expressing that step, which is completed and continue to
raise these kids get in order in the procession, and enter another with other insignia, and well
keep following until completion all of which are perhaps twenty or more, and logos that are
so crude and materials the rope is a loop bonding, a leather whip of what they used to punish the steps
that Good Friday is for the descent, and so do the rest.

After that just happened, stands the priest and others who have been sitting in the meantime,
and follow the procession, which comes out and walk around the plaza, which is illuminated,
and willing altars in the four corners to make stops. Across the square are many Indian penitents,
and among some Indian women who each other was hit savagely, making the puncture Some back and
thighs, where the blood runs in abundance, others big burden crosses on their shoulders, others
cross-reeled or put others in chains, etc. In some people running on the plaza steps meeting Veronica,
the Virgin and St. Juan, as well as the deposition of Good Friday, but these steps have apparently
been introduced after the expulsion, because neither are common to all peoples, and is in All images
on purpose for them, nor the priests served the Indians to run, particularly the descent, but
the Spanish who come together in those days there. What time the Jesuits were practiced some
more serious and dissonant penances The secular priests and superiors
have forbidden the present time, and yet this This year I warned that
one of the people in my office had been renewed several of them Indians,
whose results were abused some of the face and body, both that many
days were unable, being abused by foreign hands, so I rebuked those
who arranged and prevenídoles not do it again.

Holy Thursday Mass is celebrated with great solemnity, in which the regular communicant council, and then
carries the Blessed Sacrament in procession around the church and is placed on the monument
which, though badly painted racks of linen, is catching on some villages, and all are decorated
with silver ornaments there, with many lights, but most are tallow candles.

Then you push the Blessed Sacrament in the monument, rods and poles cuddle the sheriff Mayors
and other justice, and instead take small crosses on the hands, bringing Holy Saturday until
after the trades, returning to take their badges of justice.

The same day afternoon repeats the role of history, varying the passage of the procession, and on
Good Friday and Holy Saturday there is nothing unusual, as the offices of the morning are
as practiced everywhere, and darkness and processions as those of former days, with the exception
of peoples is lowered. In all these processions attend Indians with small crosses on the hands,
and the women with small busts crosses any saint or vocation, some carrying in his arms two
or three of them, but all assist with modesty and reverence.

On Saturday there is the particular than the church door make a big bonfire with the new light,
which everyone takes home a to fire blight, as well as having water that was blessed that day.

Quasimodo
Sunday give communion and church meeting the disabled, in which together at home or chapel
which is opposite the church, and there administer, and although is not detrimental to remove these
disabilities from their homes, I think it would be more building
carrying the Blessed Sacrament to them.

The holiday I like and is built much of Corpus Christi; for this function
have and decorate the whole square in outline, forming arches and
porticoes streets or tabernacles green branches, with links and stover
lattices very showy, and in the four corners have altars for the procession
stops.

In the booths and arches all around of the square hang a few animals and birds can get killed and
live in the countryside, and pets that are tied there, also hang more decent clothes they have,
fabrics, knit fabrics, tools of their trade and agriculture, ties, ball and bells of their animals,
bows and arrows to hunt, the food that day, and even many, being a thing that can save, and
so fill the altars of cakes made from root cassava, molded in molds of various shapes, bladders of fat,
pieces of grilled meat few are edible, but what is more abundance is pulses of all species curiously
wrought in baskets, which saved for planting, believing that their faith with presence blesses
our Lord Jesus Christ. In the neighboring villages to put a lot of rivers fish, some live
in small canoes with water, and finally, the earth produces and reaches
industry, all serve to adorn the arches and altars of the square,
so that hardly discover the green of the branches that are formed,
and say that God is Lord and Creator of all things, you must serve
them all.

The apparatus of the procession is relevant to what I have said to the other functions: good custody
of hand, numerous music, great voice of bells and drums, many dances
pretty boys and devotion.

Thrown on the floor, instead of flowers, roasted corn kernels and trapping, each grain more bulky
than a hazelnut, and appear white flowers that are several baskets, spraying van in front
of the priest who has custody, and behind boys gather and eat.

In the other holidays of the year there is nothing worthy of repair, in all follow the ceremonial
of the church in the ordinary manner and on terms that it is noticed.

In other obligations attached to the ministry of priests is what happens everywhere some are better
than others, but I must point out some things that are practiced and I are dissonant, and it will
be very rare, if not in every respect at least some has to be understood, and I think would
be of great importance to create other adjusted method.

Although pastors because of these priests are obliged to apply the Mass on holidays for the people
sing every Monday a for the souls of the dead, and implement other in each burial of adults who
may die, as everything is expressed in the aforementioned report given by the illustrious Bishop
of Buenos Aires, I have news that some priest meets with all these charges, and most know is that
some meet some others with others, as the degree of dissonance that
makes you miss them or not.

And while I talk meaning to some priests this lack I've noticed, I have responded that when Mr.
Don Manuel Antonio de La Torre said the charges of the priests in the terms contained in the
ordinances, taking charge of them said 300 pesos each synod to cure, and 250 the companion congrua
accurate, considering the loads they had, and that, having reduced the synod, are not obliged to
them, usually their higher pensions prelates with masses that have to apply for the convent,
and have no room for all the people.

A religious of San Francisco are forced provincial regularly in the triennium its intention to
apply for masses 100 priests and 150 peers, which are outside bound
to apply the religious dead.

Whatever the truth is that these lack natural part of the spiritual benefits granted the Apostolic
See obligations by the pastors, and the mercy of our Sovereign wants meet them, saying ministers
and paying for it in those who download their consciousness, and these people come on time with
the food in his cures, not lacking anything.

In administering the sacraments are these priests the same method, with short difference, observing
that the Jesuits. The children, born creatures, if they safe, and brought them to his room
and they privately administered baptism, and Sunday solemnly baptized all the creatures that
were born in a week, and put oils to which they had thrown water. The same is practiced in some
villages, in most no fixed day to administer this sacrament.

Mode was observed and seen in all villages in the Sacrament of penitence deserves a bit stop
me, because, this being the door we have to return to grace lost and the table after the sinking
of guilt leads to port security, I think is where the priests were to exercise greater care
and to make him confess it, as they reached the proper disposition to receive Holy Communion, and
formed a perfect idea of ​​so holy and necessary sacraments. But much neglect and abuse that
there is in practice seen as manifest to you.

The Indians do not confess, usually, but once a year for compliance church, the manner in which
this takes place is as follows. Even before entering Lent have priests who every day come the
Indians or Indian two or three chiefdoms-examined of Christian doctrine to the church door, which
test is running one or more Indian the confidence of the priest, who assists him sometimes,
perhaps forever, in greater or less effective.


Clare knew her, and inwardly decided that the secret must have been worth keeping. She loved
her mother far too well to hurt her with questions, but she was amazed at what she herself
felt of resentful curiosity to know the truth about anything which could cast a shadow upon
the man she disliked, as she thought so sincerely. Her mind worked like lightning, while her
voice spoke softly and her hands sought those thin, familiar, gentle fingers which were an
integral part of her world and life.

Two possibilities presented themselves. Johnstone's father was a brother or near connection
of her mother's first husband. Either she had loved him, been deceived in him, and had married
the brother instead; or, having married, this man had hated her and fought against her, and
harmed her, because she was his elder brother's wife, and he coveted the inheritance. In either
case it was no fault of Brook's. The most that could be said would be that he might have his
father's character. She inclined to the first of her theories. Old Johnstone had made love
to her mother and had half broken her heart, before she had married his brother. Brook was
no better--and she thought of Lady Fan. But she was strangely glad that her mother had said
"not dishonourable, as men look at it." It had been as though a cruel hand had been taken from
her throat, when she had heard that.

"But, mother," she said presently, "these people are coming to-morrow or the next day--and
they mean to stay, he says. Let us go away, before they come. We can come back afterwards--you
don't want to meet them."

Mrs. Bowring was calm again, or appeared to be so, whatever was passing in her mind.

"I shall certainly not run away," she answered in a low, steady voice. "I will not run away
and leave Adam Johnstone's son to tell his father that I was afraid to meet him, or his wife,"
she added, almost in a whisper. "I've been weak, sometimes, my dear--" her voice rose to its
natural key again, "and I've made a mistake in life. But I won't be a coward--I don't believe
I am, by nature, and if I were I wouldn't let myself be afraid now."

"It would not be fear, mother. Why should you suffer, if you are going to suffer in meeting
him? We had much better go away at once. When they have all left, we can come back."

"And you would not mind going away to-morrow, and never seeing Brook Johnstone again?" asked
Mrs. Bowring, quietly.

"I? No! Why should I?"

Clare meant to speak the truth, and she thought that it was the truth. But it was not. She
grew a little paler a moment after the words had passed her lips, but her mother did not see
the change of colour.

"I'm glad of that, at all events," said the elder woman. "But I won't go away. No--I won't,"
she repeated, as though spurring her own courage.

"Very well," answered the young girl. "But we can keep very much to ourselves all the time
they are here, can't we? We needn't make their acquaintance--at least--" she stopped short,
realising that it would be impossible to avoid knowing Brook's people if they were stopping
in the same hotel.

"Their acquaintance!" Mrs. Bowring laughed bitterly at the idea.

"Oh--I forgot," said Clare. "At all events, we need not meet unnecessarily. That's what I mean,
you know."

There was a short pause, during which her mother seemed to be thinking.

"I shall see him alone, for I have something to say to him," she said at last, as though she
had come to a decision. "Go out, my dear," she added. "Leave me alone a little while. I shall
be all right when it is time for luncheon."

Her daughter left her, but she did not go out at once. She went to her own room and sat down
to think over what she had seen and heard. If she went out she should probably find Johnstone
waiting for her, and she did not wish to meet him just then. It was better to be alone. She
would find out why the idea of not seeing him any more had hurt her after she had spoken.

But that was not an easy matter at all. So soon as she tried to think of herself and her own
feelings, she began to think of her mother. And when she endeavoured to solve the mystery and
guess the secret, her thoughts flew off suddenly to Brook, and she wished that she were outside
in the sunshine talking to him. And again, as the probable conversation suggested itself to
her, she was glad that she was not with him, and she tried to think again. Then she forced
herself to recall the scene with Lady Fan on the terrace, and she did her best to put him in
the worst possible light, which in her opinion was a very bad light indeed. And his father
before him--Adam--her mother had told her the name for the first time, and it struck her as
an odd one--old Adam Johnstone had been a heart-breaker, and a faith-breaker, and a betrayer
of women before Brook was in the world at all. Her theory held good, when she looked at it
fairly, and her resentment grew apace. It was natural enough, for in her imagination she had
always hated that first husband of her mother's who had come and gone before her father; and
now she extended her hatred to this probable brother, and it had much more force, because the
man was alive and a reality, and was soon to come and be a visible talking person. There was
one good point about him and his coming. It helped her to revive her hatred of Brook and to
colour it with the inheritance of some harm done to her own mother. That certainly was an advantage.

But she should be very sorry not to see Brook any more, never to hear him talk to her again,
never to look into his eyes--which, all the same, she so unreasonably dreaded. It was beyond
her powers of analysis to reconcile her like and dislike. All the little logic she had said
that it was impossible to like and dislike the same person at the same time. She seemed to
have two hearts, and the one cried "Hate," while the other cried "Love." That was absurd, and
altogether ridiculous, and quite contemptible.

There they were, however, the two hearts, fighting it out, or at least altercating and threatening
to fight and hurt her. Of course "love" meant "like"--it was a general term, well contrasting
with "hate." As for really caring, beyond a liking for Brook Johnstone, she was sure that it
was impossible. But the liking was strong. She exploded her difficulty at last with the bomb
of a splendidly youthful quibble. She said to herself that she undoubtedly hated him and despised
him, and that he was certainly the very lowest of living men for treating Lady Fan so badly--besides
being a black sinner, a point which had less weight. And then she told herself that the cry
of something in her to "like" instead of hating was simply the expression of what she might
have felt, and should have felt, and should have had a right to have felt, had it not been
for poor Lady Fan; but also of something which she assuredly did not feel, never could feel,
and never meant to feel. In other words, she should have liked Brook if she had not had good
cause to dislike him. She was satisfied with this explanation of her feelings, and she suddenly
felt that she could go out and see him and talk to him without being inconsistent. She had
forgotten to explain to herself why she wished him not to go away. She went out accordingly,
and sat down on the terrace in the soft air.

She glanced up and down, but Johnstone was not to be seen anywhere, and she wished that she
had not come out after all. He had probably waited some time and had then gone for a walk by
himself. She thought that he might have waited just a little longer before giving it up, and
she half unconsciously made up her mind to requite him by staying indoors after luncheon. She
had not even brought a book or a piece of work, for she had felt quite sure that he would be
walking up and down as usual, with his pipe, looking as though he owned the scenery. She half
rose to go in, and then changed her mind. She would give him one more chance and count fifty,
before she went away, at a good quick rate.

She began to count. At thirty-five her pace slackened. She stopped a long time at forty-five,
and then went slowly to the end. But Johnstone did not come. Once again, she reluctantly decided--and
she began slowly; and again she slackened speed and dragged over the last ten numbers. But
he did not come.

"Oh, this is ridiculous!" she exclaimed aloud to herself, as she rose impatiently from her seat.

She felt injured, for her mother had sent her away, and there was no one to talk to her, and
she did not care to think any more, lest the questions she had decided should again seem open
and doubtful. She went into the hotel and walked down the corridor. He might be in the reading-room.
She walked quickly, because she was a little ashamed of looking for him when she felt that
he should be looking for her. Suddenly she stopped, for she heard him whistling somewhere.
Whistling was his solitary accomplishment, and he did it very well. There was no mistaking
the shakes and runs, and pretty bird-like cadences. She listened, but she bit her lip. He was
light-hearted, at all events, she thought.

The sound came nearer, and Brook suddenly appeared in the corridor, his hat on the back of
his head, his hands in his pockets. As he caught sight of Clare the shrill tune ceased, and
one hand removed the hat.

"I've been looking for you everywhere, for the last two hours," he cried as he came along.
"Good morning," he said as he reached her. "I was just going back to the terrace in despair."

"It sounded more as though you were whistling for me," answered Clare, with a laugh, for she
was instantly happy, and pacified, and peaceful.

"Well--not exactly!" he answered. "But I did hope that you would hear me and know that I was
about--wishing you would come."

"I always come out in the morning," she replied with sudden demureness. "Indeed--I wondered
where you were. Let us go out, shall we?"

"We might go for a walk," suggested Brook.

"It is too late."

"Just a little walk--down to the town and across the bridge to Atrani, and back. Couldn't we?"

"Oh, we could, of course. Very well--I've got a hat on, haven't I? All right. Come along!"

"My people are coming to-day," said Brook, as they passed through the door. "I've just had
a telegram."

"To-day!" exclaimed Clare in surprise, and somewhat disturbed.

"Yes, you know I have been expecting them at any moment. I fancy they have been knocking about,
you know--seeing Pæstum and all that. They are such queer people. They always want to see everything--as
though it mattered!"

"There are only the two? Mr. and Mrs. Johnstone?"

"Yes--that's all." Brook laughed a little as though she had said something amusing.

"What are you laughing at?" asked Clare, naturally enough.

"Oh, nothing. It's ridiculous--but it sounded funny--unfamiliar, I mean. My father has fallen
a victim to knighthood, that's all. The affliction came upon him some time ago, and his name
is Adam--of all the names in the world."

"It was the first," observed Clare reassuringly. "It doesn't sound badly either--Sir Adam.
I beg his pardon for calling him 'Mr.'" She laughed in her turn.

"Oh, he wouldn't mind," said Brook. "He's not at all that sort. Do you know? I think you'll
like him awfully. He's a fine old chap in his way, though he is a brewer. He's much bigger
than I am, but he's rather odd, you know. Sometimes he'll talk like anything, and sometimes
he won't open his lips. We aren't at all alike in that way. I talk all the time, I believe--rain
or shine. Don't I bore you dreadfully sometimes?"

"No--you never bore me," answered Clare with perfect truth.

"I mean, when I talk as I did yesterday afternoon," said Johnstone with a shade of irritation.

"Oh, that--yes! Please don't begin again, and spoil our walk!"

But the walk was not destined to be a long one. A narrow, paved footway leads down from the
old monastery to the shore, in zigzag, between low whitewashed walls, passing at last under
some houses which are built across it on arches.

Just as they came in sight a tall old man emerged from this archway, walking steadily up the
hill. He was tall and bony, with a long grey beard, shaggy bent brows, keen dark eyes, and
an eagle nose. He wore clothes of rough grey woollen tweed, and carried a grey felt hat in
one long hand.

A moment after he had come out of the arch he caught sight of Brook, and his rough face brightened
instantly. He waved the grey hat and called out.

"Hulloa, my boy! There you are, eh!"

His voice was thin, like many Scotch voices, but it carried far, and had a manly ring in it.
Brook did not answer, but waved his hat.

"That's my father," he said in a low tone to Clare. "May I introduce him? And there's my mother--being
carried up in the chair."

A couple of lusty porters were carrying Lady Johnstone up the steep ascent. She was a fat lady
with bright blue eyes, like her son's, and a much brighter colour. She had a parasol in one
hand and a fan in the other, and she shook a little with every step the porters made. In the
rear, a moment later, came other porters, carrying boxes and bags of all sizes. Then a short
woman, evidently Lady Johnstone's maid, came quietly along by herself, stopping occasionally
to look at the sea.

Clare looked curiously at the party as they approached. Her first impulse had been to leave
Brook and go back alone to warn her mother. It was not far. But she realised that it would
be much better and wiser to face the introduction at once. In less than five minutes Sir Adam
had reached them. He shook hands with Brook vigorously, and looked at him as a man looks who
loves his son. Clare saw the glance, and it pleased her.

"Let me introduce you to Miss Bowring," said Brook. "Mrs. Bowring and Miss Bowring are staying
here, and have been awfully good to me."

Sir Adam turned his keen eyes to Clare, as she held out her hand.

"I beg your pardon," he said, "but are you a daughter of Captain Bowring who was killed some
years ago in Africa?"

"Yes." She looked up to him inquiringly and distrustfully.

His face brightened again and softened--then hardened singularly, all at once. She could not
have believed that such features could change so quickly.

"And my son says that your mother is here! My dear young lady--I'm very glad! I hope you mean
to stay."

The words were cordial. The tone was cold. Brook stared at his father, very much surprised
to find that he knew anything of the Bowrings, for he himself had not mentioned them in his
letters. But the porters, walking more slowly, had just brought his mother up to where the
three stood, and waited, panting a little, and the chair swinging slightly from the shoulder-straps.

"Dear old boy!" cried Lady Johnstone. "It is good to see you. No--don't kiss me, my dear--it's
far too hot. Let me look at you."

Sir Adam gravely introduced Clare. Lady Johnstone's fat face became stony as a red granite
mummy case, and she bent her apoplectic neck stiffly.

"Oh!" she ejaculated. "Very glad, I'm sure. Were you going for a walk?" she asked, turning
to Brook, severely.

"Yes, there was just time. I didn't know when to expect you. But if Miss Bowring doesn't mind,
we'll give it up, and I'll install you. Your rooms are all ready."

It was at once clear to Clare that Lady Johnstone had never heard the name of Bowring, and
that she resented the idea of her son walking alone with any young girl.

CHAPTER X

Clare went directly to her mother's room. She had hardly spoken again during the few minutes
while she had necessarily remained with the Johnstones, climbing the hill back to the hotel.
At the door she had stood aside to let Lady Johnstone go in, Sir Adam had followed his wife,
and Brook had lingered, doubtless hoping to exchange a few words more with Clare. But she was
preoccupied, and had not vouchsafed him a glance.

"They have come," she said, as she closed Mrs. Bowring's door behind her.

Her mother was seated by the open window, her hands lying idly in her lap, her face turned
away, as Clare entered. She started slightly, and looked round.

"Oh!" she exclaimed. "Already! Well--it had to come. Have you met?"

Clare told her all that had happened.

"And he said that he was glad?" asked Mrs. Bowring, with the ghost of a smile.

"He said so--yes. His voice was cold. But when he first heard my name and asked about my father
his face softened."

"His face softened," repeated Mrs. Bowring to herself, just above a whisper, as the ghost of
the smile flitted about her pale lips.

"He seemed glad at first, and then he looked displeased. Is that it?" she asked, raising her
voice again.

"That was what I thought," answered Clare. "Why don't you have luncheon in your room, mother?"
she asked suddenly.

"He would think I was afraid to meet him," said the elder woman.

A long silence followed, and Clare sat down on a stiff straw chair, looking out of the window.
At last she turned to her mother again.

"You couldn't tell me all about it, could you, mother dear?" she asked. "It seems to me it
would be so much easier for us both. Perhaps I could help you. And I myself--I should know
better how to act."

"No. I can't tell you. I only pray that I may never have to. As for you, darling--be natural.
It is a very strange position to be in, but you cannot know it--you can't be supposed to know
it. I wish I could have kept my secret better--but I broke down when you told me about the
yacht. You can only help me in one way--don't ask me questions, dear. It would be harder for
me, if you knew--indeed it would. Be natural. You need not run after them, you know--"

"I should think not!" cried Clare indignantly.

"I mean, you need not go and sit by them and talk to them for long at a time. But don't be
suddenly cold and rude to their son. There's nothing against--I mean, it has nothing to do
with him. You mustn't think it has, you know. Be natural--be yourself."

"It's not altogether easy to be natural under the circumstances," Clare answered, with some
truth, and a great deal of repressed curiosity which she did her best to hide away altogether
for her mother's sake.

At luncheon the Johnstones were all three placed on the opposite side of the table, and Brook
was no longer Clare's neighbour. The Bowrings were already in their places when the three entered,
Sir Adam giving his arm to his wife, who seemed to need help in walking, or at all events to
be glad of it. Brook followed at a little distance, and Clare saw that he was looking at her
regretfully, as though he wished himself at her side again. Had she been less young and unconscious
and thoroughly innocent, she must have seen by this time that he was seriously in love with her.

Sir Adam held his wife's chair for her, with somewhat old-fashioned courtesy, and pushed it
gently as she sat down. Then he raised his head, and his eyes met Mrs. Bowring's. For a few
moments they looked at each other. Then his expression changed and softened, as it had when
he had first met Clare, but Mrs. Bowring's face grew hard and pale. He did not sit down, but
to his wife's surprise walked quietly all round the end of the table and up the other side
to where Mrs. Bowring sat. She knew that he was coming, and she turned a little to meet his
hand. The English old maids watched the proceedings with keen interest from the upper end.

Sir Adam held out his hand, and Mrs. Bowring took it.

"It is a great pleasure to me to meet you again," he said slowly, as though speaking with an
effort. "Brook says that you have been very good to him, and so I want to thank you at once.
Yes--this is your daughter--Brook introduced me. Excuse me--I'll get round to my place again.
Shall we meet after luncheon?"

"If you like," said Mrs. Bowring in a constrained tone. "By all means," she added nervously.

"My dear," said Sir Adam, speaking across the table to his wife, "let me introduce you to my
old friend Mrs. Bowring, the mother of this young lady whom you have already met," he added,
glancing down at Clare's flaxen head.

Again Lady Johnstone slightly bent her apoplectic neck, but her expression was not stony, as
it had been when she had first looked at Clare. On the contrary, she smiled very pleasantly
and naturally, and her frank blue eyes looked at Mrs. Bowring with a friendly interest.

Clare thought that she heard a faint sigh of relief escape her mother's lips just then. Sir
Adam's heavy steps echoed upon the tile floor, as he marched all round the table again to his
seat. The table itself was narrow, and it was easy to talk across it, without raising the voice.
Sir Adam sat on one side of his wife, and Brook on the other, last on his side, as Clare was
on hers.

There was very little conversation at first. Brook did not care to talk across to Clare, and
Sir Adam seemed to have said all he meant to say for the present. Lady Johnstone, who seemed
to be a cheerful, conversational soul, began to talk to Mrs. Bowring, evidently attracted by
her at first sight.

"It's a beautiful place when you get here," she said. "Isn't it? The view from my window is
heavenly! But to get here! Dear me! I was carried up by two men, you know, and I thought they
would have died. I hope they are enjoying their dinner, poor fellows! I'm sure they never carried
such a load before!"

And she laughed, with a sort of frank, half self-commiserating amusement at her own proportions.

"Oh, I fancy they must be used to it," said Mrs. Bowring, reassuringly, for the sake of saying
something.

"They'll hate the sight of me in a week!" said Lady Johnstone. "I mean to go everywhere, while
I'm here--up all the hills, and down all the valleys. I always see everything when I come to
a new place. It's pleasant to sit still afterwards, and feel that you've done it all, don't
you know? I shall ruin you in porters, Adam," she added, turning her large round face slowly
to her husband.

"Certainly, certainly," answered Sir Adam, nodding gravely, as he dissected the bones out of
a fried sardine.

"You're awfully good about it," said Lady Johnstone, in thanks for unlimited porters to come.

Like many unusually stout people, she ate very little, and had plenty of time for talking.

"You knew my husband a long time ago, then!" she began, again looking across at Mrs. Bowring.

Sir Adam glanced at Mrs. Bowring sharply from beneath his shaggy brows.

"Oh yes," she said calmly. "We met before he was married."

The grey-headed man slowly nodded assent, but said nothing.

"Before his first marriage?" inquired Lady Johnstone gravely. "You know that he has been married
twice."

"Yes," answered Mrs. Bowring. "Before his first marriage."

Again Sir Adam nodded solemnly.

"How interesting!" exclaimed Lady Johnstone. "Such old friends! And to meet in this accidental
way, in this queer place!"

"We generally live abroad," said Mrs. Bowring. "Generally in Florence. Do you know Florence?"

"Oh yes!" cried the fat lady enthusiastically. "I dote on Florence. I'm perfectly mad about
pictures, you know. Perfectly mad!"

The vision of a woman cast in Lady Johnstone's proportions and perfectly mad might have provoked
a smile on Mrs. Bowring's face at any other time.

"I suppose you buy pictures, as well as admire them," she said, glad of the turn the conversation
had taken.

"Sometimes," answered the other. "Sometimes. I wish I could buy more. But good pictures are
getting to be most frightfully dear. Besides, you are hardly ever sure of getting an original,
unless there are all the documents--and that means thousands, literally thousands of pounds.
But now and then I kick over the traces, you know."

Clare could not help smiling at the simile, and bent down her head. Brook was watching her,
he understood and was annoyed, for he loved his mother in his own way.

"At all events you won't be able to ruin yourself in pictures here," said Mrs. Bowring.

"No--but how about the porters?" suggested Sir Adam.

"My dear Adam," said Lady Johnstone, "unless they are all Shylocks here, they won't exact a
ducat for every pound of flesh. If they did, you would certainly never get back to England."

It was impossible not to laugh. Lady Johnstone did not look at all the sort of person to say
witty things, though she was the very incarnation of good humour--except when she thought that
Brook was in danger of being married. And every one laughed, Sir Adam first, then Brook, and
then the Bowrings. The effect was good. Lady Johnstone was really afflicted with curiosity,
and her first questions to Mrs. Bowring had been asked purely out of a wish to make advances.
She was strongly attracted by the quiet, pale face, with its excessive refinement and delicately
traced lines of suffering. She felt that the woman had taken life too hard, and it was her
instinct to comfort her, and warm her and take care of her, from the first. Brook understood
and rejoiced, for he knew his mother's tenacity about her first impressions, and he wished
to have her on his side.

After that the ice was broken and the conversation did not flag. Sir Adam looked at Mrs. Bowring
from time to time with an expression of uncertainty which sat strangely on his determined features,
and whenever any new subject was broached he watched her uneasily until she had spoken. But
Mrs. Bowring rarely returned his glances, and her eyes never lingered on his face even when
she was speaking to him. Clare, for her part, joined in the conversation, and wondered and
waited. Her theory was strengthened by what she saw. Clearly Sir Adam felt uncomfortable in
her mother's presence; therefore he had injured her in some way, and doubted whether she had
ever forgiven him. But to the girl's quick instinct it was clear that he did not stand to Mrs.
Bowring only in the position of one who had harmed her. In some way of love or friendship,
he had once been very fond of her. The youngest woman cannot easily mistake the signs of such
bygone intercourse.

When they rose, Mrs. Bowring walked slowly, on her side of the table, so as not to reach the
door before Lady Johnstone, who could not move fast under any circumstances. They all went
out together upon the terrace.

"Brook," said the fat lady, "I must sit down, or I shall die. You know, my dear--get me one
that won't break!"

She laughed a little, as Brook went off to find a solid chair. A few minutes later she was
enthroned in safety, her husband on one side of her and Mrs. Bowring on the other, all facing
the sea.

"It's too perfect for words!" she exclaimed, in solid and peaceful satisfaction. "Adam, isn't
it a dream? You thin people don't know how nice it is to come to anchor in a pleasant place
after a long voyage!"

She sighed happily and moved her arms so that their weight was quite at rest without an effort.

Clare and Johnstone walked slowly up and down, passing and repassing, and trying to talk as
though neither were aware that there was something unusual in the situation, to say the least
of it. At last they stopped at the end farthest away from the others.

"I had no idea that my father had known your mother long ago," said Brook suddenly. "Had you?"

"Yes--of late," answered Clare. "You see my mother wasn't sure, until you told me his first
name," she hastened to add.

"Oh--I see. Of course. Stupid of me not to try and bring it into the conversation sooner, wasn't
it? But it seems to have been ever so long ago. Don't you think so?"

"Yes. Ever so long ago."

"When they were quite young, I suppose. Your mother must have been perfectly beautiful when
she was young. I dare say my father was madly in love with her. It wouldn't be at all surprising,
you know, would it? He was a tremendous fellow for falling in love."

"Oh! Was he?" Clare spoke rather coldly.

"You're not angry, are you, because I suggested it?" asked Brook quickly. "I don't see that
there's any harm in it. There's no reason why a young man as he was shouldn't have been desperately
in love with a beautiful young girl, is there?"

"None whatever," answered Clare. "I was only thinking--it's rather an odd coincidence--do you
mind telling me something?"

"Of course not! What is it?"

"Had your father ever a brother--who died?"

"No. He had a lot of sisters--some of them are alive still. Awful old things, my aunts are,
too. No, he never had any brother. Why do you ask?"

"Nothing--it's a mere coincidence. Did I ever tell you that my mother was married twice? My
father was her second husband. The first had your name."

"Johnstone, with an E on the end of it?"

"Yes--with an E."

"Gad! that's funny!" exclaimed Brook. "Some connection, I dare say. Then we are connected too,
you and I, not much though, when one thinks of it. Step-cousin by marriage, and ever so many
degrees removed, too."

"You can't call that a connection," said Clare with a little laugh, but her face was thoughtful.
"Still, it is odd that she should have known your father well, and should have married a man
of the same name--with the E--isn't it?"

"He may have been an own cousin, for all I know," said Brook. "I'll ask. He's sure to remember.
He never forgets anything. And it's another coincidence too, that my father should have been
married twice, just like your mother, and that I should be the son of the second marriage,
too. What odd things happen, when one comes to compare notes!"

While they had walked up and down, Lady Johnstone had paid no attention to them, but she had
grown restless as soon as she had seen that they stood still at a distance to talk, and her
bright blue eyes turned towards them again and again, with sudden motherly anxiety. At last
she could bear it no longer.

"Brook!" she cried. "Brook, my dear boy!" Brook and Clare walked back towards the little group.

"Brook, dear," said Lady Johnstone. "Please come and tell me the names of all the mountains
and places we see from here. You know, I always want to know everything as soon as I arrive."

Sir Adam rose from his chair.

"Should you like to take a turn?" he asked, speaking to Mrs. Bowring and standing before her.

She rose in silence and stepped forward, with a quiet, set face, as though she knew that the
supreme moment had come.

"Take our chairs," said Sir Adam to Clare and Brook. "We are going to walk about a little."

Mrs. Bowring turned in the direction whence the young people had come, towards the end of the
terrace. Sir Adam walked erect beside her.

"Is there a way out at that end?" he asked in a low voice, when they had gone a little distance.

"No."

"We can't stand there and talk. Where can we go? Isn't there a quiet place somewhere?"

"Do you want to talk to me?" asked Mrs. Bowring, looking straight before her.

"Yes, please," answered Sir Adam, almost sharply, but still in a low tone. "I've waited a long
time," he added.

Mrs. Bowring said nothing in answer. They reached the end of the walk, and she turned without
pausing.

"The point out there is called the Conca," she said, pointing to the rocks far out below. "It
curls round like a shell, you know. Conca means a sea-shell, I think. It seems to be a great
place for fishing, for there are always little boats about it in fine weather."

"I remember," replied Sir Adam. "I was here thirty years ago. It hasn't changed much. Are there
still those little paper-mills in the valley on the way to Ravello? They used to be very primitive."

They kept up their forced conversation as they passed Lady Johnstone and the young people.
Then they were silent again, as they went towards the hotel.

"We'll go through the house," said Mrs. Bowring, speaking low again. "There's a quiet place
on the other side--Clare and your son will have to stay with your wife."

"Yes, I thought of that, when I told them to take our chairs."

In silence they traversed the long tiled corridor with set faces, like two people who are going
to do something dangerous and disagreeable together. They came out upon the platform before
the deep recess of the rocks in which stood the black cross. There was nobody there.

"We shall not be disturbed out here," said Mrs. Bowring, quietly. "The people in the hotel
go to their rooms after luncheon. We will sit down there by the cross, if you don't mind--I'm
not so strong as I used to be, you know."

They ascended the few steps which led up to the bench where Clare had sat on that evening which
she could not forget, and they sat down side by side, not looking at each other's faces.

A long silence followed. Once or twice Sir Adam shifted his feet uneasily, and opened his mouth
as though he were going to say something, but suddenly changed his mind. Mrs. Bowring was the
first to speak.

"Please understand," she said slowly, glancing at him sideways, "I don't want you to say anything,
and I don't know what you can have to say. As for my being here, it's very simple. If I had
known that Brook Johnstone was your son before he had made our acquaintance, and that you were
coming here, I should have gone away at once. As soon as I knew him I suspected who he was.
You must know that he is like you as you used to be--except your eyes. Then I said to myself
that he would tell you that he had met us, and that you would of course think that I had been
afraid to meet you. I'm not. So I stayed. I don't know whether I did right or wrong. To me
it seemed right, and I'm willing to abide the consequences, if there are to be any."

"What consequences can there be?" asked the grey-bearded man, turning his eyes slowly to her face.

"That depends upon how you act. It might have been better to behave as though we had never
met, and to let your son introduce you to me as he introduced you to Clare. We might have started
upon a more formal footing, then. You have chosen to say that we are old friends. It's an odd
expression to use--but let it stand. I won't quarrel with it. It does well enough. As for the
position, it's not pleasant for me, but it must be worse for you. There's not much to choose.
But I don't want you to think that I expect you to talk about old times unless you like. If
you have anything which you wish to say, I'll hear it all without interrupting you. But I do
wish you to believe that I won't do anything nor say anything which could touch your wife.
She seems to be happy with you. I hope she always has been and always will be. She knew what
she was doing when she married you. God knows, there was publicity enough. Was it my fault?
I suppose you've always thought so. Very well, then--say that it was my fault. But don't tell
your wife who I am unless she forces you to it out of curiosity."

"Do you think I should wish to?" asked Sir Adam, bitterly.

"No--of course not. But she may ask you who I was and when we met, and all about it. Try and
keep her off the subject. We don't want to tell lies, you know."

"I shall say that you were Lucy Waring. That's true enough. You were christened Lucy Waring.
She need never know what your last name was. That isn't a lie, is it?"

"Not exactly--under the circumstances."

"And your daughter knows nothing, of course? I want to know how we stand, you see."

"No--only that we have met before. I don't know what she may suspect. And your son?"

"Oh, I suppose he knows. Somebody must have told him."

"He doesn't know who I am, though," said Mrs. Bowring, with conviction. "He seems to be more
like his mother than like you. He couldn't conceal anything long."

"I wasn't particularly good at that either, as it turned out," said Sir Adam, gravely.

"No, thank God!"

"Do you think it's something to be thankful for? I don't. Things might have gone better afterwards--"

"Afterwards!" The suffering of the woman's life was in the tone and in her eyes.

"Yes, afterwards. I'm an old man, Lucy, and I've seen a great many things since you and I parted,
and a great many people. I was bad enough, but I've seen worse men since, who have had another
chance and have turned out well."

"Their wives did not love them. I am almost old, too. I loved you, Adam. It was a bad hurt
you gave me, and the wound never healed. I married--I had to marry. He was an honest gentleman.
Then he was killed. That hurt too, for I was very fond of him--but it did not hurt as the other
did. Nothing could."

Her voice shook, and she turned away her face. At least, he should not see that her lip trembled.

"I didn't think you cared," said Sir Adam, and his own voice was not very steady.

She turned upon him almost fiercely, and there was a blue light in her faded eyes.

"I! You thought I didn't care? You've no right to say that--it's wicked of you, and it's cruel.
Did you think I married you for your money, Adam? And if I had--should I have given it up to
be divorced because you gave jewels to an actress? I loved you, and I wanted your love, or
nothing. You couldn't be faithful--commonly, decently faithful, for one year--and I got myself
free from you, because I would not be your wife, nor eat your bread, nor touch your hand, if
you couldn't love me. Don't say that you ever loved me, except my face. We hadn't been divorced
a year when you married again. Don't say that you loved me! You loved your wife--your second
wife--perhaps. I hope so. I hope you love her now--and I dare say you do, for she looks happy--but
don't say that you ever loved me--just long enough to marry me and betray me!"

"You're hard, Lucy. You're as hard as ever you were twenty years ago," said Adam Johnstone.

As he leaned forward, resting an elbow on his knee, he passed his brown hand across his eyes,
and then stared vaguely at the white walls of the old hotel beyond the platform.

"But you know that I'm right," answered Mrs. Bowring. "Perhaps I'm hard, too. I'm sorry. You
said that you had been mad, I remember--I don't like to think of all you said, but you said
that. And I remember thinking that I had been much more mad than you, to have married you,
but that I should soon be really mad--raving mad--if I remained your wife. I couldn't. I should
have died. Afterwards I thought it would have been better if I had died then. But I lived through
it. Then, after the death of my old aunt, I was alone. What was I to do? I was poor and lonely,
and a divorced woman, though the right had been on my side. Richard Bowring knew all about
it, and I married him. I did not love you any more, then, but I told him the truth when I told
him that I could never love any one again. He was satisfied--so we were married."

"I don't blame you," said Sir Adam.

"Blame me! No--it would hardly be for you to blame me, if I could make anything of the shreds
of my life which I had saved from yours. For that matter--you were free too. It was soon done,
but why should I blame you for that? You were free--by the law--to go where you pleased, to
love again, and to marry at once. You did. Oh no! I don't blame you for that!"

Both were silent for some time. But Mrs. Bowring's eyes still had an indignant light in them,
and her fingers twitched nervously from time to time. Sir Adam stared stolidly at the white
wall, without looking at his former wife.

"I've been talking about myself," she said at last. "I didn't mean to, for I need no justification.
When you said that you wanted to say something, I brought you here so that we could be alone.
What was it? I should have let you speak first."

"It was this." He paused, as though choosing his words. "Well, I don't know," he continued
presently. "You've been saying a good many things about me that I would have said myself. I've
not denied them, have I? Well, it's this. I wanted to see you for years, and now we've met.
We may not meet again, Lucy, though I dare say we may live a long time. I wish we could, though.
But of course you don't care to see me. I was your husband once, and I behaved like a brute
to you. You wouldn't want me for a friend now that I am old."

He waited, but she said nothing.

"Of course you wouldn't," he continued. "I shouldn't, in your place. Oh, I know! If I were
dying or starving, or very unhappy, you would be capable of doing anything for me, out of sheer
goodness. You're only just to people who aren't suffering. You were always like that in the
old days. It's so much the worse for us. I have nothing about me to excite your pity. I'm strong,
I'm well, I'm very rich, I'm relatively happy. I don't know how much I cared for my wife when
I married her, but she has been a good wife, and I'm very fond of her now, in my own way. It
wasn't a good action, I admit, to marry her at all. She was the beauty of her year and the
best match of the season, and I was just divorced, and every one's hand was against me. I thought
I would show them what I could do, winged as I was, and I got her. No; it wasn't a thing to
be proud of. But somehow we hit it off, and she stuck to me, and I grew fond of her because
she did, and here we are as you see us, and Brook is a fine fellow, and likes me. I like him
too. He's honest and faithful, like his mother. There's no justice and no logic in this world,
Lucy. I was a good-for-nothing in the old days. Circumstances have made me decently good, and
a pretty happy man besides, as men go. I couldn't ask for any pity if I tried."

"No; you're not to be pitied. I'm glad you're happy. I don't wish you any harm."

"You might, and I shouldn't blame you. But all that isn't what I wished to say. I'm getting
old, and we may not meet any more after this. If you wish me to go away, I'll go. We'll leave
the place tomorrow."

"No. Why should you? It's a strange situation, as we were to-day at table. You with your wife
beside, and your divorced wife opposite you, and only you and I knowing it. I suppose you think,
somehow--I don't know--that I might be jealous of your wife. But twenty-seven years make a
difference, Adam. It's half a lifetime. It's so utterly past that I sha'n't realise it. If
you like to stay, then stay. No harm can come of it, and that was so very long ago. Is that
what you want to say?"

"No." He hesitated. "I want you to say that you forgive me," he said, in a quick, hoarse voice.

His keen dark eyes turned quickly to her face, and he saw how very pale she was, and how the
shadows had deepened under her eyes, and her fingers twitched nervously as they clasped one
another in her lap.

"I suppose you think I'm sentimental," he said, looking at her. "Perhaps I am; but it would
mean a good deal to me if you would just say it."

There was something pathetic in the appeal, and something young too, in spite of his grey beard
and furrowed face. Still Mrs. Bowring said nothing. It meant almost too much to her, even after
twenty-seven years. This old man had taken her, an innocent young girl, had married her, had
betrayed her while she dearly loved him, and had blasted her life at the beginning. Even now
it was hard to forgive. The suffering was not old, and the sight of his face had touched the
quick again. Barely ten minutes had passed since the pain had almost wrung the tears from her.

"You can't," said the old man, suddenly. "I see it. It's too much to ask, I suppose, and I've
never done anything to deserve it."

The pale face grew paler, but the hands were still, and grasped each other, firm and cold.
The lips moved, but no sound came. Then a moment, and they moved again.

"You're mistaken, Adam. I do forgive you."

He caught the two hands in his, and his face shivered.

"God bless you, dear," he tried to say, and he kissed the hands twice.

When Mrs. Bowring looked up he was sitting beside her, just as before; but his face was terribly
drawn, and strange, and a great tear had trickled down the furrowed brown cheek into the grey
beard.

CHAPTER XI

Lady Johnstone was one of those perfectly frank and honest persons who take no trouble to conceal
their anxieties. From the fact that when she had met him on the way up to the hotel Brook had
been walking alone with Clare Bowring, she had at once argued that a considerable intimacy
existed between the two. Her meeting with Clare's mother, and her sudden fancy for the elder
woman, had momentarily allayed her fears, but they revived when it became clear to her that
Brook sought every possible opportunity of being alone with the young girl. She was an eminently
practical woman, as has been said, which perhaps accounted for her having made a good husband
out of such a man as Adam Johnstone had been in his youth. She had never seen Brook devote
himself to a young girl before now. She saw that Clare was good to look at, and she promptly
concluded that Brook must be in love. The conclusion was perfectly correct, and Lady Johnstone
soon grew very nervous. Brook was too young to marry, and even if he had been old enough his
mother thought that he might have made a better choice. At all events he should not entangle
himself in an engagement with the girl; and she began systematically to interfere with his
attempts to be alone with her. Brook was as frank as herself. He charged her with trying to
keep him from Clare, and she did not deny that he was right. This led to a discussion on the
third day after the Johnstones' arrival.

"You mustn't make a fool of yourself, Brook, dear," said Lady Johnstone. "You are not old enough
to marry. Oh, I know, you are five-and-twenty, and ought to have come to years of discretion.
But you haven't, dear boy. Don't forget that you are Adam Johnstone's son, and that you may
be expected to do all the things that he did before I married him. And he did a good many things,
you know. I'm devoted to your father, and if he were in the room I should tell you just what
I am telling you now. Before I married him he had about a thousand flirtations, and he had
been married too, and had gone off with an actress--a shocking affair altogether! And his wife
had divorced him. She must have been one of those horrible women who can't forgive, you know.
Now, my dear boy, you aren't a bit better than your father, and that pretty Clare Bowring looks
as though she would never forgive anybody who did anything she didn't like. Have you asked
her to marry you?"

"Good heavens, no!" cried Brook. "She wouldn't look at me!" 

Cultivation and processing of snuff, and the black as they call red, offers these crecidísimas
peoples benefits. This branch, which in the present state can not overtake extinct if the communities
could provide high magnification, is the planting and cultivation snuff cinch to any individual
who is devoted to agriculture, but the benefit after collecting the leaf is painful to those who were
not free, time and proportions This, and more the benefit of black snuff for many tools that are
needed. Al same time the factory would be embarrassing to flood crops, cultivation and collection
of snuff, but it would be easy profit after papers were collected, and so what should was that
the Indians, and any other individuals, would go all the plantings in their own buy farms and in
deep leaf seasoned pagándosela cash at a price are regulated, so that remains a modest profit
to the factory, which, with appropriate tools, it would snap the benefits grow lots of black
snuff and red, applying to each class was best for her. Thus it was necessary stockpiles grew,
then, almost every Indian sown, as they are many, taking freedom to work on the land so fertile,
it would make good crops, which would increase by planting which in turn hiciese the factory,
which should also the had.

Plantings of all the fruit supply, such as wheat, corn and all kinds of beans, the Indians would
verify as they are accustomed to them, and they would buy the factory
for the supply of the village.

Well is that, if necessary or helpful, could also make the factory.

To keep all these tasks, or those most accounts offer, should be in cahoots Indian laborers
who were necessary for applying to the children and old to occupations
that they could comply.

These laborers should be voluntary, and they would weekly pay, governs a very moderate wages,
which in my mind enough not lacking for laborers and who work hard, which in the hardest-working
and applied are regulated at 6 reales per week, 5, 4 and 3 to less activity, grading of each,
giving them all a hearty meal at noon, boys, girls old and old enough that they reached the
wages to dress and feed.

Although the inclination I know in all these Indians are not colluding and earn wages I have
certainly no lack few peons need the factory to their tasks, before
On the contrary, I believe that the factory would bring precision
to occupy other all, if my concept come out wrong in this part, and
the Indians are more applicable to their work colluding in particular
to the factory, no inconvenience is that the factory would reduced
its tasks only the most useful and accurate, and that they will oblige
weekly and in turn the necessary laborers, paying them their wages,
and that in case of non-Indians disengaged, because, having, them
and not others should make clear to work as idle and vagrant people.

Shall be most desirable that the factor can be in cahoots, and conchabo, few Spanish are presented,
or may be, for laborers of the rooms, chores yerbales, snuff and benefit for all occupations to be
good destinations for which, when mixed with the Indians at work, teach and encourage them to work,
and so it should be the cahoots some of these Spanish for foremen of the various tasks to be undertaken,
although the latter should be admitted to government approval, and not otherwise.

At the end of each week should the Payment of wages that have accrued
pawns in a week, according to the ballots to be given them overseers,
who should be arranged and implementation assistance that each would
have had that week.

All stockpiles that were made in a fruit or effects should be made weekly in stores three keys
with the magistrate and butler intervention, and even the council, if it had fit, settling
in a book that should exist within the same store, entries, signing everyone in it, practicing the
same with the exits, and some as others should be made more in the
stores, and the factor and Butler should have books individuals that
enter the same items, as well as a diary that target small items in
the speech of the week will be collecting or expending so that clearly
stated and the purity of this management.

Inside the main house should be allocated a piece on purpose to give
it a store or grocery store by a Spanish or Indian employee purpose,
which is sold all kinds of edible offal of daily need, delivering
account all what there was to sell and collect the money every Saturday
sales surrender of the week, which should also be placed in the box
store three keys, which should have to book her ticket and outflows
of cash, with the same formalities as the of the fruits and effects,
and every four months or when the factor would fit, would final accounts
of the grocery store to know the status of her and her management,
warning its result to the government.

For this grocery store was stocked with everything you should care factor, for its part, and do to
look after the butler, that all the fat of cattle, and from those killed on farms and in the
people, serve candle which it was made there, as well as grease from them. That is kneaded bread,
not lacking beans, corn and other edible the country produces and consumes the Indians, as well
as salt, sugar, honey, soap, so they lack nothing of what might be offered, except for strong
drink, they should be banned entirely, as they are by the law.

For prices of the sales hiciesen these retail grocery stores were not arbitrary the factors
or store owners should be given by government tariffs, the prices fixed that were established
by other duties, for purchases that would make the factory the Indians, so that selling retail could
not exceed 25 or 30 percent price increase that they had bought and sold wholesale only half
the retail.

The supply of meat should be in charge of a Spanish or Indian, arranged
so that each res good size utility left the factory weight of silver
and leather value spending of manipulators and pastors.

It would be convenient and very precise thing that the stores were stocked with adequate clothing
for these people, and of those called in Castile as the country, ensuring that in the factories
of paintings of peoples listadillos work, and all those who use and crave the Indians, as
also no lack of brakes, spurs and any giblets know they are useful, and trying not to introduce
useless and superfluous, and only Saturdays, and with the assistance
of the mayor, mayor and some council, should be opened check stores
and sale of these effects are of daily necessity, and the amount drop
it right there in the box of three keys in the manner aforesaid, and
separation other items.

These effects could increase cargársele on the main cost Buenos Aires, 40 or 50 percent, so they bear
the cost of driving, failure and impairments that may suffer, and excises to be paid, and commanded
to leave a good gain, for it serves in a common utility, scope and terms after be said.

A no Spanish or Indian, established or employed in the towns, which should be allowed effects
introduced to sell, or even of its precise use, as everyone should
buy the factory, but it will be allowed to sell the necessary licenses
to individuals from outside the province to come and buy them out,
even lowering price something that is regularly sold at retail to
those established within it, thus increase the field of trade, and
therefore the profits of the factory.

While the factory and factor wages and employment should give all
those who pidiesen, and compel the justices through the idle to work,
should also buy from the Indians, and even the Spanish settlers, few
fruits and effects acquire with their work and industry prices that
the government had established, even if There would have been any
sale that they had to do for it would be something highly desirable
that everyone had secured the sale of the product of their work.

Well is that the government would care to put tiny fruit prices and little effect necessary to
separate the Indians from the application useless things useful by tilting the through the best
prices and profits that they surrender, as we shall in the case of government.

Butler would be in charge, with the intervention, guidance and care of the factor, buying few fruits
and giblets daily bring him to sell the Indians, paying in cash to set prices, to which should
be in possession of some money that he take account of the end of the week, receiving and storing
what they had bought, and giving enough money for the following week. This same foremen should
buy and pay the thread that the Indian hilasen and wanted to sell, fixing prices according
to their qualities, in my mind should be paid to 3 reales per pound of wick, 4 of thread Thick canvas,
7 the medium, 12 the fine and 16 the superfine, and sell them in the shop real half-pound of
cotton, or 10 reales the arroba, on the assumption that I buy a 8 reales the arroba of wishing
to sell their crops.

The thread that are collected could be used to canvas for your grades, paying the weavers their
work, as the rods and quality of parts.

The factor should be atahona to all who wished were milling wheat
where so, without further payment for milling that is deemed sufficient
to keep peons atahonas mules and composure, and would likewise mills,
and all utensils for grinding benefit the sugarcane and honey and
sugar, and, finally, all those offices would not easy coastal poor,
and that lack of them or do not sow or plant those effects, the inability
to benefit them or lose them for lack of them.

Should also maintain peoples immediate good portion of oxen for rent to which they needed for
their crops, whether Spanish or Indian, it is that they they fix a reasonable price that will
cover only the impairment of the oxen and salaries shepherds.

None should be given anything for nothing, and can work, so that each seek have oxen, horses
and everything you need to save yourself from having to pay rent.

In power factor should not extinguish or money for a single day, or
anything that belonged the factory, because everything would be stored
under the three keys to these, and in the meantime was verified at
the end of each week, which remained in the hands of Butler and others
for handling, and the factor take care of their conduct, and take
weekly accounts as aforesaid.

Nor should he be allowed to factor, or any other employee, taking the shop, butcher shop or store
anything under the guise of charge or on credit for daily expenditures, for all I had to purchase for
cash, and if he had any need, the government order and formalities necessary they could to
help cash account useful part in the adjustment account has, nor were to be served of oxen, horses
or other tools of the factory in their particular purposes, if not paying vacation spot everything.

Should
be removed and sold, for the benefit of the factory, all the furniture and utensils kitchen and refectory,
while other furniture that needed to furnishing and decorating municipal buildings, the governor's
guesthouse and some others in this class, and these furniture and
keep them as consejiles, ornaments destined for the same people.

The fruits marketable surplus of peoples should be issued by the factors to places where they
could be more profit on its sale, particularly in capital Buenos Aires, so sold for the benefit
of the factory and I refer to your product what they desired, and that this change was advantageous
and was not exposed to harm and disadvantages, I think should be established in this way.

On top of its own Board and means of Buenos Aires, or who had Superiority
fit, may be appointed in that city three or four subjects of quality,
and suitable bonds for guardians of the people, enabling them could
receive parcels from them and that they and not other factors directed
farms their respective managements, but leaving them free to choose
one of these agents they please, and removing the parcels when they
consider useful to their interests, without need of evidence, nor
the attorneys would need to excuse them to receive the parcels when
they do not accommodate the receiving and takes place between traders.

And these agents were dependent and subject to the respective villages from whom they had parcels,
for under its provisions, to pay the bills when they are asked and everything else concerning
management that managed, meaning no Subject to the provisions and rules that have the honor to
give the Superior, and other they shall speak when dealing political
government of these peoples and manner in which the factors should
pay their bills.

With this decision is that the attorneys would get, to keep the fees and they had, and acquire others
that could added to them from other people, seek to be punctual in the performance of their
duties, giving the best value for the purpose that they submitted, and buying with equity that
can be ordered to, and would ensure confidence of natural factors that would make the comparison
of sales and purchases of each other proxies, which can never do
as a single as it has been so far to manage their estates, also avoiding
the damage that would follow each village had its particular agent,
as some have opined, in what I conceive that more damage has one.

For all these things observe with equal and timely in all villages was must make a statement,
which clearly and minutely arranged government method economic development of each people,
and serve as ordinance and other factors used in this management, which, if necessary, would be easy
to train, practice and knowledge through I have of terms can be practiced and practiced.

Managed and implemented the proposed method, in my opinion would be favorable infallible result,
and for the factory to the Indians, since wages were safe, and where provided all their needs,
those who did not have their own crops, and those who had none security to sell all their fruit
at a price fixed and determined, and the factory security grown about
increases in all areas that would benefit, leaving no doubt that in
a funds and people of medium proportions would not drop from 8 to
10,000 pesos annual profits, still considered the principles and tasks
with only the present, what you evidenciaré with the next score.

In a village whose rooms have 20,000 head of cattle, begat of not lower 4,000 of misses a year, and
having, as they all breeds of mares and mules, produced also the increase of young animals
well so that I have found that by lowering those killed, lost, stolen,
annual consumption of stay, and computing wages of laborers and foremen,
passes for 3,000 pesos the value of the annual increase in a room
like the proposal.

In a town that has 1,200 souls among young and old, does not lower the annual consumption of
2,500 cattle, and although not dealt only 2,000, whereas the remaining ones to give feed the laborers
who will work on behalf of the factory, and consider a utility weight in each, according to
what I have said, are 2,000 pesos.

Limited as they are in the grocery store sales of the effects of daily consumption, having to
provide themselves with all the people there, not being possible that taking money from wages stop
buying what they desire, can be computed gains in this sector, at least at 1,000 pesos per year.

While
growing yerbales peoples are very deteriorated and are short of crops, but we can always regulate
your product at 500 pesos a year, after rebates wages that can be used in cultivation and
weed.

The cotton crop can easily produce the same as the grass, and even exceeded in much, if you
get a little application.

The planting and benefit of snuff, and twisted like enmanojado, is a row of little use, and beneficial
as we have said can be assured without risk of mistake, which would 1,000 pesos surrender the
profits.

The fabrics in linen, in a village in the number of people expressed, in the day up to 16,000
beam, without nearly as many that weave dressing particularly his
own; and so, but do not count but the same 16,000 yards, and they
average real income in each stick to the factory, is 1,000 pesos.

The purchase of goods brought from Buenos Aires to sell to the Indians in these terms, I think
it would not be less than 4,000 pesos of annual principal, at least one or two years past, which,
charging them fifty percent, occur in the sale 6,000 pesos, of which
2,000 of utility, and considering that the cost of buying commission,
handling and sales taxes amounted to 500 pesos, were free to 1,500.

Although there are many other peoples that make utility classes, such as benefits grass in the mountains,
the cattle, cutting wood and referral, the benefit of the sugar and honey, indigo, should it be established,
and many others who are targeted, I will not stop to make computation of profits give up,
because for my attempt suffice implied, and that they show sufficient profits, as shown in the following
summary.

Pesos Utilities begat the 3,000 rooms Idem meat consumption in 2,000 people Ditto for the 1000
general store Ditto for the herb that benefits the 500 people Ditto for 500 cotton Ditto the
benefit of snuff 1,000 Idem of cotton canvas fabrics 1,000 Ditto the purchase of goods from
outside the province 1,500

There are 10,500 pesos

The resulting short history of free utilities to the factory, 10,500 pesos.
 "You've made me say things that I shouldn't have dreamed of saying to any woman, much
less to you. And you've made me think of doing things that looked perfectly mad a week ago."
He stopped before her. "Can't you see? Can't you understand? Can't you feel how I love you?"

"Don't--please don't!" she said, beginning to be frightened at his manner again.

"Don't what? Don't love you? Don't live, then--don't exist--don't anything! What would it all
matter, if I didn't love you? Meanwhile, I do, and by the--no! What's the use of talking? You
might laugh. You'd make a fool of me, if you hadn't killed the fool out of me with too much
earnest--and what's left can't talk, though it can do something better worth while than a lot
of talking."

Clare began to think that the heat had hurt his head. And all the time, in a secret, shame-faced
way, she was listening to his incoherent sentences and rough exclamations, and remembering
them one by one, and every one. And she looked at his pale face, and saw the queer light in
his blue eyes, and the squaring of his jaw--and then and long afterwards the whole picture,
with its memory of words, hot, broken, and confused, meant earnest love in her thoughts. No
man in his senses, wishing to play a part and produce an impression upon a woman, would have
acted as he did, and she knew it. It was the rough, real thing--the raw strength of an honest
man's uncontrolled passion that she saw--and it told her more of love in a few minutes than
all she had heard or read in her whole life. But while it was before her, alive and throbbing
and incoherent of speech, it frightened her.

"Come," she said nervously, "we mustn't stay out here any longer, talking in this way."

He stopped again, close before her, and his eyes looked dangerous for an instant. Then he straightened
himself, and seemed to swallow something with an effort.

"All right," he answered. "I don't want to keep you out here in the heat."

He faced about, and they walked slowly towards the house. When they reached the door he stood
aside. She saw that he did not mean to go in, and she paused an instant on the threshold, looked
at him gravely, and nodded before she entered. Again he bent his head, and said nothing. She
left him standing there, and went straight to her room.

Then she sat down before a little table on which she wrote her letters, near the window, and
she tried to think. But it was not easy, and everything was terribly confused. She rested her
elbows upon the small desk and pressed her fingers to her eyes, as though to drive away the
sight that would come back. Then she dropped her hands suddenly and opened her eyes wide, and
stared at the wall-paper before her. And it came back very vividly between her and the white
plaster, and she heard his voice again--but she was smiling now.

She started violently, for she felt two hands laid unexpectedly upon her shoulders, and some
one kissed her hair. She had not heard her mother's footstep, nor the opening and shutting
of the door, nor anything but Brook Johnstone's voice.

"What is it, my darling?" asked the elder woman, bending down over her daughter's shoulder.
"Has anything happened?"

Clare hesitated a moment, and then spoke, for the habit of her confidence was strong. "He has
asked me to marry him, mother--"

In her turn Mrs. Bowring started, and then rested one hand on the table.

"You? You?" she repeated, in a low and troubled voice. "You marry Adam Johnstone's son?"

"No, mother--never," answered the young girl.

"Thank God!"

And Mrs. Bowring sank into a chair, shivering as though she were cold.

CHAPTER XII

Brook felt in his pocket mechanically for his pipe, as a man who smokes generally takes to
something of the sort at great moments in his life, from sheer habit. He went through the operation
of filling and lighting with great precision, almost unconscious of what he was doing, and
presently he found himself smoking and sitting on the wall just where Clare had leaned against
it during their interview. In three minutes his pipe had gone out, but he was not aware of
the fact, and sat quite still in his place, staring into the shrubbery which grew at the back
of the terrace.

He was conscious that he had talked and acted wildly, and quite unlike the self with which
he had been long acquainted; and the consciousness was anything but pleasant. In sitting down the Indians, that all they
face the plaza, are the wives and daughters of the guests, each with a plate big mud, comes
and puts it under the table, at the foot of the father or husband, and retires slightly, remaining
standing in front of her husband, the entire duration of the meal, which will serve some Indians,
who bring each guest a plate full of good sized food, of eating a little or do you eat, and
then empties into the dish that has its feet, giving the empty plate, and bring it back full
of something else or the same, and does same with the first, and so continue until completion.
So that together on a plate All leftover meats few have served at the table, to dessert, if any,
together with the others. After they have finished, come and take women's plates leftovers and
take them home, where husbands are also, and together with their children or friends eat what
is left in the banquet.

Although magistrates have the same style when I came to these towns, they have banished entirely
in private, and treat that in these feasts and the patron saint Holder of the people have at
home, and do just as the Spanish. Within your house have the table well served and neat in
her women sit together with their husbands, and they behave soberly, and priests go home to
bless the magistrates the table.

A morning run in the square ring, giving the wearer awards, and at night are repeated dances and
wane.

Of these functions is done with more solemnity is the holy day of the holder pattern Village.
For her feature in the plaza at the entrance of the street that is opposite the door of the church,
a castle or scaffold made of high beams, which are frames and balconies, green branches, and
adorned with racks of linen draperies and painted, there placed in a shrine of the saint's image,
and before, at the foot of the altar, give way to fly the royal standard. Very early yesterday
morning, as are all lobbyists, military offices and other town employees dressed and saddled horses
to go out and get on the road to the governor, the lieutenant and the priests, administrators
and councils of other countries, invited to the party, have put spies on all roads, and warning
that someone comes out to a quarter of a mile to find it, there I salute welcome him and accompany
him to his lodging. In these submissions become the whole morning, using running time intervals
riding around the square, is the dominant passion of the Indians, who never cease to run all
three days of the function, and for this they have carefully reserved the horses that are
to serve those days, which they call the horses of the saint, and they serve only particular
tasks, but not in the daily service of rooms, so it is also desirable, as are in good condition
those horses when needed.

On the first councilman who is responsible is the use of real Lieutenant, to whose house the council
goes at noon, and accompany him to the council house, where he delivered logo real lieutenant,
a tall pole has a shield over the fist-sized silver hand, which are carved the royal arms. Real
Ensign accompanied by a little Indian which serves as a page, and takes the baton when he
wears the royal standard. For either peoples have dressed the same, with expensive embroidery
and braids, but, as they are the old cut and are not adjusted to their bodies, make them ridiculous.
The lieutenant takes real the royal standard and with all the accompanying leads and placed in
the castle, repeating many times: "Long live the King, Our Lord, Don Carlos III." From there
all go to the door of the church, and find the picture in the manner aforesaid, and then enter
the church, where the singing of the Magnificat, and withdraw, take her home to the royal standard
bearer.

In the afternoon, after given two ringing of bells to announce the run, is the town hall mounted
and accompanied by the royal officials and other attendees, a governor's house or lieutenant governor, along
for the ride out of the standard, where all managers attend Spanish and other competitors,
as well as the magistrates and councils of other peoples; and all are mounted from there to house
the royal standard bearer, which accompany and are to take the royal standard, and to receive
repeated the "Long live the King" to the sound of boxes, trumpets, bells and several shots of
Camaret, and arranged in good order, turning the square, walking ahead military officers on the
street with banners, pikes and other signs, playing and beating flags at intervals, and repeating
"Long live the King." Arrive at the door of the church, where they expect the priests to all
competing religious, who, after given water blessed sanctuary attached to the royal standard,
which receives the priest or the one is to celebrate Mass, and placed within the sanctuary,
next to the gospel in a foot wood, and they put real Ensign chair, rug and pillow, the same on the outside
of the sanctuary, in front of that occupied by the governor or lieutenant governor, and running
out the run, back to retire in the same way and, before giving back to the plaza, placed the royal
standard in place.

The next day we repeated the ride, and sing the Mass and Vespers the evening before, and noon real
reserves the banner, but the real picture remains discovered all the day, occupied in running
in the square, dancing, ring in the evening and other entertainment. In the same way that continues
the next day, which usually take some bulls Cut the blades to not hurt the fighters, which
are very clumsy and adventurous. In some representing peoples operas or comedies truncated
nights, but as representatives are Indians, and most of them boys, and do not understand what
they say and can not pronounce While the Castilian, are poorly understood
and have little grace these representations for Spanish and for them.

At noon join the tables in the square for the blessing in this way, regular pass this day twenty
tables which are arranged, and some rich people even reach percent, and all very rich meat,
cheaper for the people must spend this day at least 50 bulls, because
of the neighboring villages attends many people, and all provide food
in abundance.

In those days it was divided, while the dances, bull ring, and several trifles of who work in towns,
such as beads, cups, spoons, combs and canvas blade cotton, are also given, if there in the
store, needles, tape, knives and other trifles they believe a lot. Of this, some things are
given as a reward to those who dance or carry ring, and others were thrown in the catch, which
is what they have more fun, and together to catch them all, even the lobbyists, if something
falls to where they are sitting forget the formality with which they
are cast as children and to take what they can, although in the day
contain something.

Happy working all year just hoping that the party is done with grandeur; and if they want to
reduce something, they reply that they work just happy to spend that
day, and if yours are moderated despite the cost, it is recognized
hereinafter fainting in the application to work.

Although the custom in their distributions go to know the date and time of all are so used to not
do anything without it sent, to await the signal for all drum, or voice of the preacher or publisher,
and so all day we hear repeated touches and post boxes in the streets what they should do.
At dawn, after the bell makes signal under the drums and the streets are divided by some Indians,
who were loud stand up to say praise God, to get ready to go to church to hear mass, then the
work, and thus the will of God will be provided the support and please their higher. At all
hours of the day repeating the same diligence as they have to do,
the same to come to the rosary, however, that the bell tells them.

Though I noticed that in several hours of the night played the boxes, particularly the morning,
curiosity prompted me to ask what purpose were those touches, and I responded I always had this habit
of remembering all the people in a few hours of night, and that's why they were doing. Hastening
over this matter and its origin, I was told that the Jesuits, knowing the lazy genius of the Indians,
and, tired of working all day, then who came home and dined, they slept until the next day,
at dawn they were up to go to church and then to work, and not reached their wives husbands
long time, and decreased the population, and arranged so that in
some hours of the night, remember to comply with the obligation of
marriage.

Can not tell these people that the people causing noise on populations, each one at home has
been a profound silence, not join a conversation or a fun, even if they are offered together
to talk about, because they are lacking in species, nor have games to pass the idle time, even
the kids play and have fun in squares and streets, as befits his age do not hear songs in their
language, or in Castilian, and thus did not hear them singing in their tasks or jobs, as workers
tend relief work; sing nor Indian, nor even know them or they speak up. From kids raise them
so cramped that if they send for some, but I have to view, do not know raise your voice to
call, and go where it is and tell you there call, nor usually not allowed to touch them in their
homes guitars or other instrument, and less home having dances, on
the day are allowed, but with many limitations.

This is most notably the political and economic governance of these Indians, whose story can help build
comprehensive concept of who they are and the state in which they are.

Since I have told you what I found most peculiar to this province and its natural I argue it
will not be disagreeable to you, before going on to try other things, talked to you something of
the Indian nations infidels, confining to these peoples, as well as they may eventually increase the
province, and because their news may be fuller concept of all this, and what then intends for the purpose
of improvement. And ignoring the nation of the Guaicurus, previously disturbed people nearest
to Paraguay, because in the distant day is considered by the successful orders of the current
governor Mr. Don Pedro Melo de Portugal, which have established populations Ñembuá and taken other
measures, has subjected this nation, so that has not stopped even
the slightest fear of invasion in these villages, speak only of Guyana,
the Tupi, the Minuanes and Charrúas.

Under Guyana's nomination include these natives to many other nations, who have some relationship
to each other, and whose genius, customs and language differ little,
this is like the Guarani, and probably has the same origin, and, although
altered and disfigured with a different accent and pronunciation,
with little difficulty understanding the Indians of these towns.

The nation Guyana, together with other nations their peers, is quite large, living on either
side of the Parana, from about 20 miles from Corpus Christi to the Salto Grande Paraná and even
higher, ranging up to about Uruguay, Iguazu River, St. Antonio et al. Its natural docilísimo, and
so friendly with the Indians of these towns no news I have made the slightest damage to the frequent
trips that make yerba mate; rather help them to work, look and show the places where many trees
grass and even their assistance with food when they scarce, contenting
himself with some trifles they are given, such as beads, mirrors,
some girls and some axes cotton canvas.

These Indians live scattered in the mountains, feeding on the hunt, kill with arrows without
poison, not used or known to eat any bugs, but their main food is the honey from the mountains.
Also plant some fields, but not cultivated; what they do is pour the seed in some place, and while
they think will result and turn around and collect what they find, the seeds you have are: beans
of several species and some bear fruit all year until the cold consume
the plants, corn and pumpkins or pumpkins of various species, some
of exquisite taste.

Twelve miles from the town of Corpus, to the east, a small reduction Guyana nation, named San
Francisco de Paula, who is in charge of the Dominicans; and although many years ago it was founded,
or is increased, and there is hope to remain with fruit, for though
the Indians manifest inclination to be Christians, there are many
impediments that make it difficult to achieve the set them civil and
Christian life.

The number of Christians that make up this reduction is about 50, including young and old,
but they do not always assist in the reduction, therefore, accustomed to seeking their food
in the mountains, they come for them to ensure, where they try and talk with relatives and friends the infidels,
estándose with them many months, resulting which may not return to the reduction. Unbelievers also
frequent it often, particularly reduced when they eat, then filled the reduction of infidels,
and consuming what needs to retire, taking with them many of the
Christians, or fans treatment, or forced of necessity, go with them.

The site is located where the reduction is one of the greatest difficulties is to is increased,
the proximity and deal with their own will not let them forget their old ways and inclinations,
the little forest bare ground does not allow them to extend their farms, let alone raising
animals, since, besides the lack of land, so abundant mosquito flies
and gnats of various species, which may even have a horse for the
service of doctrinaire religious.

In October of last year, 1784, while the illustrious Don Fray Luis de Velasco, bishop of the city
of Paraguay, visited the people of his diocese, Corpus being in the Guiana Indians declined
to confirm Christians in that town. On this occasion had the opportunity this illustrious gentleman,
and had me talk to them, and particularly with the mayor, that although Guyana nation was born and raised
in the people of Corpus, and asking for the reasons that motivated seemed to him the little
overtaking of decline, said the shortness of their land and immediacy to the mountains, where
were necessary for food, along with not being accustomed to work, were the reasons for the
reduction distracted by the low, and the infidels, although all wanted to be Christians, seeing
that they had nothing to eat in the reduction, would not come to it, and only come around when
they know there to eat, and in turn consuming to the mountains, and only give them good land
elsewhere would be achieved increasing reduction. To which I said the bishop to speak to relatives
and friends and persuaded them to come out from the mountains, that the King would grant them
mercy land and how to survive in other places with the amenities of that seen in people, and
provide for their ministers that the doctrine and teaching the way of Heaven, and diligence
that brought to the execution after they returned to the reduction, and their I tell my result,
for me to participate to the bishop and his excellency Viceroy to the report had it convenient,
and although it stayed in, particularly the sheriff, so far nothing has resulted or will result
as I tell you.

In the time that the people of Candelaria was covered in my office, had prepared Indians those
frequent trips to the wild yerba mate, and among other things and mandated to be controllable
in this task was one which retains the best harmony with unbelievers, fans deal with them,
and always they had a chance Christians to lure them out of the mountains and, welcome everybody
to conveniences they had in their villages, and they were patents, see if they could persuade
some chiefs that, as a walk, come and see his people, and indeed one with wine two other Indians
with some of Candelaria, who entertained and gave a lot. And treating them the issue of conversion
and reduction, and they replied that they, like everyone else of those mountains, they wanted
to be Christians, but were there to teach them religious, because they could not get out, because
if they came to the villages had to die, and of this persuasion, that gave no reason, I could
not deter.

"You don't mind my saying so to you, Brook?" asked the old man, hitching his shoulders.

"Mind? Why?"

"Oh--well--there's no reason, I suppose. Gad! I wish--I suppose I'm crazy, but I wish to God
you could marry the girl, Brook! She's as good as her mother."

Brook said nothing, being very much astonished, as well as disturbed.

"Only--I'll tell you one thing, Brook," said the voice at the window, speaking into space.
"If you do marry her--and if you treat her as I treated her mother--" he turned sharply on
both heels and waited a minute--"I'll be damned if I don't believe I'd shoot you!"

"I'd spare you the trouble, and do it myself," said Brook, roughly.

They were men, at all events, whatever their faults had been and might be, and they looked
at the main things of life in very much the same way, like father like son. Another silence
followed Brook's last speech.

"It's settled now, at all events," he said in a decided way, after a long time. "What's the
use of talking about it? I don't know whether you mean to stay here. I shall go away this afternoon."

Sir Adam sat down again in his low easy chair, and leaned forward, looking at the pattern of
the tiles in the floor, his wrists resting on his knees, and his hands hanging down.

"I don't know," he said slowly. "Let us try and look at it quietly, boy. Don't do anything
in a hurry. You're in love with the girl, are you? It isn't a mere flirtation? How the deuce
do you know the difference, at your age?"

"Gad!" exclaimed Brook, half angrily. "I know it! that's all. I can't live without her. That
is--it's all bosh to talk in that way, you know. One goes on living, I suppose--one doesn't
die. You know what I mean. I'd rather lose an arm than lose her--that sort of thing. How am
I to explain it to you? I'm in earnest about it. I never asked any girl to marry me till now.
I should think that ought to prove it. You can't say that I don't know what married life means."

"Other people's married life," observed Sir Adam, grimly. "You know something about that, I'm
afraid."

"What difference does it make?" asked Brook. "I can't marry the daughter of my father's divorced
wife."

"I never heard of a case, simply because such cases don't arise often. But there's no earthly
reason why you shouldn't. There is no relationship whatever between you. There's no mention
of it in the table of kindred and affinity, I know, simply because it isn't kindred or affinity
in any way. The world may make its observations. But you may do much more surprising things
than marry the daughter of your father's divorced wife when you are to have forty thousand
pounds a year, Brook. I've found it out in my time. You'll find it out in yours. And it isn't
as though there were the least thing about it that wasn't all fair and square and straight
and honourable and legal--and everything else, including the clergy. I supposed that the Archbishop
of Canterbury wouldn't have married me the second time, because the Church isn't supposed to
approve of divorces. But I was married in church all right, by a very good man. And Church
disapproval can't possibly extend to the second generation, you know. Oh no! So far as its
being possible goes, there's nothing to prevent your marrying her."

"Except Mrs. Crosby," said Brook. "You'll prove that she doesn't exist either, if you go on.
But all that doesn't put things straight. It's a horrible situation, no matter how you look
at it. What would my mother say if she knew? You haven't told her about the Bowrings, have you?"

"No," answered Sir Adam, thoughtfully. "I haven't told her anything. Of course she knows the
story, but--I'm not sure. Do you think I'm bound to tell her that--who Mrs. Bowring is? Do
you think it's anything like not fair to her, just to leave her in ignorance of it? If you
think so, I'll tell her at once. That is, I should have to ask Mrs. Bowring first, of course."

"Of course," assented Brook. "You can't do that, unless we go away. Besides, as things are
now, what's the use?"

"She'll have to know, if you are engaged to the daughter."

"I'm not engaged to Miss Bowring," said Brook, disconsolately. "She won't look at me. What
an infernal mess I've made of my life!"

"Don't be an ass, Brook!" exclaimed Sir Adam, for the third time that morning.

"It's all very well to tell me not to be an ass," answered the young man gravely. "I can't
mend matters now, and I don't blame her for refusing me. It isn't much more than two weeks
since that night. I can't tell her the truth--I wouldn't tell it to you, though I can't prevent
your telling it to me, since you've guessed it. She thinks I betrayed Mrs. Crosby, and left
her--like the merest cad, you know. What am I to do? I won't say anything against Mrs. Crosby
for anything--and if I were low enough to do that I couldn't say it to Miss Bowring. I told
her that I'd marry her in spite of herself--carry her off--anything! But of course I couldn't.
I lost my head, and talked like a fool."

"She won't think the worse of you for that," observed the old man. "But you can't tell her--the
rest. Of course not! I'll see what I can do, Brook. I don't believe it's hopeless at all. I've
watched Miss Bowring, ever since we first met you two, coming up the hill. I'll try something--"

"Don't speak to her about Mrs. Crosby, at all events!"

"I don't think I should do anything you wouldn't do yourself, boy," said Sir Adam, with a shade
of reproval in his tone. "All I say is that the case isn't so hopeless as you seem to think.
Of course you are heavily handicapped, and you are a dog with a bad name, and all the rest
of it. The young lady won't change her mind to-day, nor to-morrow either, perhaps. But she
wouldn't be a human woman if she never changed it at all."

"You don't know her!" Brook shook his head and began to refill his refractory pipe. "And I
don't believe you know her mother either, though you were married to her once. If she is at
all what I think she is, she won't let her daughter marry your son. It's not as though anything
could happen now to change the situation. It's an old one--it's old, and set, and hard, like
a cast. You can't run it into a new mould and make anything else of it. Not even you, Governor--and
you are as clever as anybody I know. It's a sheer question of humanity, without any possible
outside incident. I've got two things against me which are about as serious as anything can
be--the mother's prejudice against you, and the daughter's prejudice against me--both deuced
well founded, it seems to me."

"You forget one thing, Brook," said Sir Adam, thoughtfully.

"What's that?"

"Women forgive."

Neither spoke for some time.

"You ought to know," said Brook in a low tone, at last. "They forgive when they love--or have
loved. That's the right way to put it, I think."

"Well--put it in that way, if you like. It will just cover the ground. Whatever that young
lady may say, she likes you very much. I've seen her watch you, and I'm sure of it."

"How can a woman love a man and hate him at the same time?"

"Why do jealous women sometimes kill their husbands? If they didn't love them they wouldn't
care; and if they didn't hate them, they wouldn't kill them. You can't explain it, perhaps,
but you can't deny it either. She'll never forgive Mrs. Crosby--perhaps--but she'll forgive
you, when she finds out that she can't be happy without you. Stay here quietly, and let me
see what I can do."

"You can't do anything, Governor. But I'm grateful to you all the same. And--you know--if there's
anything I can do on my side to help you, just now, I'll do it!"

"Thank you, Brook," said the old man, leaning back, and putting up his feet again.

Brook rose and left the room, slowly shutting the door behind him. Then he got his hat and
went off for a solitary walk to think matters over. They were grave enough, and all that his
father had said could not persuade him that there was any chance of happiness in his future.
There was a sort of horror in the situation, too, and he could not remember ever to have heard
of anything like it. He walked slowly, and with bent head.

CHAPTER XIII

Sir Adam sat still in his place and smoked another thick cigarette before he moved. Then he
roused himself, got up, sat down at his table, and took a large sheet of paper from a big leather
writing-case.

He had no hesitation about what he meant to put down. In a quarter of an hour he had written
out a new will, in which he left his whole fortune to his only son Brook, on condition that
Brook did not marry Mrs. Crosby. But if he married her before his father's death he was to
have nothing, and if he married her afterwards he was to forfeit the whole, to the uttermost
farthing. In either of these cases the property was to go to a third person. Sir Adam hesitated
a moment, and then wrote the name of one of his sisters as the conditional legatee. His wife
had plenty of money of her own, and besides, the will was a mere formality, drawn up and to
be executed solely with a view to checking Lady Fan's enthusiasm. He did not sign it, but folded
it smoothly and put it into his pocket. He also took his own pen, for he was particular in
matters appertaining to the mechanics of writing, and very neat in all he did.

He went out and wandered up and down the terrace in the heat, but no one was there. Then he
knocked at his wife's door, and found her absorbed in an interesting conversation with her
maid in regard to matters of dress, as connected with climate. Lady Johnstone at once appealed
to him, and the maid eyed him with suspicion, fearing his suggestions. He satisfied her, however,
by immediately suggesting that she should go away, whereat she smiled and departed.

Lady Johnstone at once understood that something very serious was in the air. A wonderful good
fellowship existed between husband and wife; but they very rarely talked of anything which
could not have been discussed, figuratively, on the housetops.

"Brook has got himself into a scrape with that Mrs. Crosby, my dear," said Sir Adam. "What
you heard is all more or less true. She has really been to a solicitor, and means to take steps
to get a divorce. Of course she could get it easily enough. If she did, people would say that
Brook had let her go that far, telling her that he would marry her, and then had changed his
mind and left her to her fate. We can't let that happen, you know."

Lady Johnstone looked at her husband with anxiety while he was speaking, and then was silent
for a few seconds.

"Oh, you Johnstones! You Johnstones!" she cried at last, shaking her head. "You're perfectly
incorrigible!"

"Oh no, my dear," answered Sir Adam; "don't forget me, you know."

"You, Adam!"

Her tone expressed an extraordinary conflict of varying sentiment--amusement, affection, reproach,
a retrospective distrust of what might have been, but could not be, considering Sir Adam's age.

"Never mind me, then," he answered. "I've made a will cutting Brook off with nothing if he
marries Mrs. Crosby, and I'm going to send her a copy of it to-day. That will be enough, I fancy."

"Adam!"

"Yes--what? Do you disapprove? You always say that you are a practical woman, and you generally
show that you are. Why shouldn't I take the practical method of stopping this woman as soon
as possible? She wants my money--she doesn't want my son. A fortune with any other name would
smell as sweet."

"Yes--but--"

"But what?"

"I don't know--it seems--somehow--" Lady Johnstone was perplexed to express what she meant
just then. "I mean," she added suddenly, "it's treating the woman like a mere adventuress,
you know--"

"That's precisely what Mrs. Crosby is, my dear," answered Sir Adam calmly. "The fact that she
comes of decent people doesn't alter the case in the least. Nor the fact that she has one rich
husband, and wishes to get another instead. I say that her husband is rich, but I'm very sure
he has ruined himself in the last two years, and that she knows it. She is not the woman to
leave him as long as he has money, for he lets her do anything she pleases, and pays her well
to leave him alone. But he has got into trouble--and rats leave a sinking ship, you know. You
may say that I'm cynical, my dear, but I think you'll find that I'm telling you the facts as
they are."

"It seems an awful insult to the woman to send her a copy of your will," said Lady Johnstone.

"It's an awful insult to you when she tries to get rid of her husband to marry your only son,
my dear."

"Oh--but he'd never marry her!"

"I'm not sure. If he thought it would be dishonourable not to marry her, he'd be quite capable
of doing it, and of blowing out his brains afterwards."

"That wouldn't improve her position," observed the practical Lady Johnstone.

"She'd be the widow of an honest man, instead of the wife of a blackguard," said Sir Adam.
"However, I'm doing this on my own responsibility. What I want is that you should witness the
will."

"And let Mrs. Crosby think I made you do this? No--"

"Nonsense. I sha'n't copy the signatures--"

"Then why do you need them at all?"

"I'm not going to write to her that I've made a will, if I haven't," answered Sir Adam. "A
will isn't a will unless it's witnessed. I'm not going to lie about it, just to frighten her.
So I want you and Mrs. Bowring to witness it."

"Mrs. Bowring?"

"Yes--there are no men here, and Brook can't be a witness, because he's interested. You and
Mrs. Bowring will do very well. But there's another thing--rather an extraordinary thing--and
I won't let you sign with her until you know it. It's not a very easy thing to tell you, my dear."

Lady Johnstone shifted her fat hands and folded them again, and her frank blue eyes gazed at
her husband for a moment.

"I can guess," she said, with a good-natured smile. "You told me you were old friends--I suppose
you were in love with her somewhere!" She laughed and shook her head. "I don't mind," she added.
"It's one more, that's all--one that I didn't know of. She's a very nice woman, and I've taken
the greatest fancy to her!"

"I'm glad you have," said Sir Adam, gravely. "I say, my dear--don't be surprised, you know--I
warned you. We knew each other very well--it's not what you think at all, and she was altogether
in the right and I was quite in the wrong about it. I say, now--don't be startled--she's my
divorced wife--that's all."

"She! Mrs. Bowring! Oh, Adam--how could you treat her so!"

Lady Johnstone leaned back in her chair and slowly turned her head till she could look out
of the window. She was almost rosy with surprise--a change of colour in her sanguine complexion
which was equivalent to extreme pallor in other persons. Sir Adam looked at her affectionately.

"What an awfully good woman you are!" he exclaimed, in genuine admiration.

"I! No, I'm not good at all. I was thinking that if you hadn't been such a brute to her I could
never have married you. I don't suppose that is good, is it? But you were a brute, all the
same, Adam, dear, to hurt such a woman as that!"

"Of course I was! I told you so when I told you the story. But I didn't expect that you'd ever
meet."

"No, it is an extraordinary thing. I suppose that if I had any nerves I should faint. It would
be an awful thing if I did; you'd have to get those porters to pick me up!" She smiled meditatively.
"But I haven't fainted, you see. And, after all, I don't see why it should be so very dreadful,
do you? You see, you've rather broken me in to the idea of lots of other people in your life,
and I've always pitied her sincerely. I don't see why I should stop pitying her because I've
met her and taken such a fancy to her without knowing who she was. Do you?"

"Most women would," observed Sir Adam. "It's lucky that you and she happen to be the two best
women in the world. I told Brook so this morning."

"Brook? Have you told him?"

"I had to. He wants to marry her daughter."

"Brook! It's impossible!"

Lady Johnstone's tone betrayed so much more surprise and displeasure than when her husband
had told her of Mrs. Bowring's identity that he stared at her in surprise.

"I don't see why it's impossible," he said, "except that she has refused him once. That's nothing.
The first time doesn't count."

"He sha'n't!" said the fat lady, whose vivid colour had come back. "He'll make her miserable--just
as you--no, I won't say that! But they are not in the least suited to one another--he's far
too young; there are fifty reasons."

"Brook won't act as I did, my dear," said Sir Adam. "He's like you in that. He'll make as good
a husband as you have been a good wife--"

"Nonsense!" interrupted Lady Johnstone. "You're all alike, you Johnstones! I was talking to
him this morning about her--I knew there was the beginning of something--and I told him what
I thought. You're all bad, and I love you all; but if you think that Clare Bowring is as practical
as I am, you're very much mistaken, Adam, dear! She'll break her heart--"

"If she does, I'll shoot him," answered the old man with a grim smile. "I told him so."

"Did you? Well, I am glad you take that view of it," said Lady Johnstone, thoughtfully, and
not at all realising what she was saying. "I'm glad I'm not a nervous woman," she added, beginning
to fan herself. "I should be in my grave, you know."

"No--you are not nervous, my dear, and I'm very glad of it. I suppose it really is rather a
trying situation. But if I didn't know you, I wouldn't have told you all this. You've spoiled
me, you know--you really have been so tremendously good to me--always, dear."

There was a rough, half unwilling tenderness in his voice, and his big bony hand rested gently
on the fat lady's shoulder, as he spoke. She bent her head to one side, till her large red
cheek touched the brown knuckles. It was, in a way, almost grotesque. But there was that something
in it which could make youth and beauty and passion ridiculous--the outspoken truthful old
rake and the ever-forgiving wife. Who shall say wherein pathos lies? And yet it seems to be
something more than a mere hack-writer's word, after all. The strangest acts of life sometimes
go off in such an oddly quiet humdrum way, and then all at once there is the little quiver
in the throat, when one least expects it--and the sad-eyed, faithful, loving angel has passed
by quickly, low and soft, his gentle wings just brushing the still waters of our unwept tears.

Sir Adam left his wife to go in search of Mrs. Bowring. He sent a message to her, and she came
out and met him in the corridor. They went into the reading-room together, and he shut the
door. In a few words he told her all that he had told his wife about Mrs. Crosby, and asked
her whether she had any objection to signing the document as a witness, merely in order that
he might satisfy himself by actually executing it.

"It is high handed," said Mrs. Bowring. "It is like you--but I suppose you have a right to
save your son from such trouble. But there is something else--do you know what has happened?
He has been making love to Clare--he has asked her to marry him, and she has refused. She told
me this morning--and I have told her the truth--that you and I were once married."

She paused, and watched Sir Adam's furrowed face.

"I'm glad of that," he said. "I'm glad that it has all come out on the same day. He knows everything,
and he has told me everything. I don't know how it's all going to end, but I want you to believe
one thing. If he had guessed the truth, he would never have said a word of love to her. He's
not that kind of boy. You do believe me, don't you?"

"Yes, I believe you. But the worst of it is that she cares for him too--in a way I can't understand.
She has some reason, or she thinks she has, for disliking him, as she calls it. She wouldn't
tell me. But she cares for him all the same. She has told him, though she won't tell me. There
is something horrible in the idea of our children falling in love with each other."

Mrs. Bowring spoke quietly, but her pale face and nervous mouth told more than her words.

Sir Adam explained to her shortly what had happened on the first evening after Brook's arrival,
and how Clare had heard it all, sitting in the shadow just above the platform. Mrs. Bowring
listened in silence, covering her eyes with her hands. There was a long pause after he had
finished speaking, but still she said nothing.

"I should like him to marry her," said Sir Adam at last, in a low voice.

She started and looked at him uneasily, remembering how well she had once loved him, and how
he had broken her heart when she was young. He met her eyes quietly.

"You don't know him," he said. "He loves her, and he will be to her--what I wasn't to you."

"How can you say that he loves her? Three weeks ago he loved that Mrs. Crosby."

"He? He never cared for her--not even at first."

"He was all the more heartless and bad to make her think that he did."

"She never thought so, for a moment. She wanted my money, and she thought that she could catch
him."

"Perhaps--I saw her, and I did not like her face. She had the look of an adventuress about
her. That doesn't change the main facts. Your son and she were--flirting, to say the least
of it, three weeks ago. And now he thinks himself in love with my daughter. It would be madness
to trust such a man--even if there were not the rest to hinder their marriage. Adam--I told
you that I forgave you. I have forgiven you--God knows. But you broke my life at the beginning
like a thread. You don't know all there has been to forgive--indeed, you don't. And you are
asking me to risk Clare's life in your son's hands, as I risked mine in yours. It's too much
to ask."

"But you say yourself that she loves him."

"She cares for him--that was what I said. I don't believe in love as I did. You can't expect
me to."

She turned her face away from him, but he saw the bitterness in it, and it hurt him. He waited
a moment before he answered her.

"Don't visit my sins on your daughter, Lucy," he said at last. "Don't forget that love was
a fact before you and I were born, and will be a fact long after we are dead. If these two
love each other, let them marry. I hope that Clare is like you, but don't take it for granted
that Brook is like me. He's not. He's more like his mother."

"And your wife?" said Mrs. Bowring suddenly. "What would she say to this?"

"My wife," said Sir Adam, "is a practical woman."

"I never was. Still--if I knew that Clare loved him--if I could believe that he could love
her faithfully--what could I do? I couldn't forbid her to marry him. I could only pray that
she might be happy, or at least that she might not break her heart."

"You would probably be heard, if anybody is. And a man must believe in God to explain your
existence," added Sir Adam, in a gravely meditative tone. "It's the best argument I know."

CHAPTER XIV

Brook Johnstone had gone to his room when he had left his father, and was hastily packing his
belongings, for he had made up his mind to leave Amalfi at once without consulting anybody.
It is a special advantage of places where there is no railway that one can go away at a moment's
notice, without waiting tedious hours for a train. Brook did not hesitate, for it seemed to
him the only right thing to do, after Clare's refusal, and after what his father had told him.
If she had loved him, he would have stayed in spite of every opposition. If he had never been
told her mother's history, he would have stayed and would have tried to make her love him.
As it was, he set his teeth and said to himself that he would suffer a good deal rather than
do anything more to win the heart of Mrs. Bowring's daughter. He would get over it somehow
in the end. He fancied Clare's horror if she should ever know the truth, and his fear of hurting
her was as strong as his love. He made no phrases to himself, and he thought of nothing theatrical
which he should like to say. He just set his teeth and packed his clothes alone. Possibly he
swore rather unmercifully at the coat which would not fit into the right place, and at the
starched shirt-cuffs which would not lie flat until he smashed them out of shape with unsteady
hands.

When he was ready, he wrote a few words to Clare. He said that he was going away immediately,
and that it would be very kind of her to let him say good-bye. He sent the note by a servant,
and waited in the corridor at a distance from her door.

A moment later she came out, very pale.

"You are not really going, are you?" she asked, with wide and startled eyes. "You can't be
in earnest?"

"I'm all ready," he answered, nodding slowly. "It's much better. I only wanted to say good-bye,
you know. It's awfully kind of you to come out." 

Considering how few of these natural proportions have to get some overtaking, because they lack the means
to benefit through the sale, the fruits that can be purchased with their work, and that failure
to provide this benefit would be futile my efforts and Orders, I ordered that all the fruit
they collect in their particular fields and want to sell to the community, have to buy the very,
paying cash value in those fruits and effects they want or the people have, making it necessary
to book for food that year. They must also buy full price for anything that have acquired their industry,
for prices that I mentioned in a tariff that formed for the effect.

This ruling has had favorable effects in only two years that have
acquired practical many Indians a regular conveniences, many families
have been neat and tidy and not ashamed to appear before all sorts
of people, with whose company are becoming sociable and acquiring
a perfect civility prevail in all abundance, and every day is over,
for the example of a stimulus serves others.

You've seen it, and so has seen the Governor Governor of this province, and so I have no fear that
seems you more expensive born of self-esteem.


"About us all--about him, principally. I can't tell you. I really can't."

"About him--and my mother? That they were married and separated?"

The steady innocent eyes had waited for him to look up again. He started as he heard her words.

"You don't mean to say that you know it too?" he cried. "Who has dared to tell you?"

"My mother--she was quite right. It's wrong to hide such things--she ought to have told me
at once. Why shouldn't I have known it?"

"Doesn't it seem horrible to you? Don't you dislike me more than ever?"

"No. Why should I? It wasn't your fault. What has it to do with you? Or with me? Is that the
reason why you are going away so suddenly?"

Brook stared at her in surprise, and the dawn of returning gladness was in his face for a moment.

"We have a right to live, whatever they did in their day," said Clare. "There is no reason
why you should go away like this, at a moment's notice." On this side had been glad to career choices made by his father, because
the doctor was perhaps the only one compatible with their aspirations and trends. Furthermore, it could
fool you into illusions of boys, and of all kinds, his father had quite right to get in there to
give an occupation that, at least, was to enlighten understanding and put you in touch with the
world. In this test, necessarily had to manifest and win his true vocation.


Man-like, having his courage at the striking-point, he wished to get it all over quickly and
be off. The colour sank from Clare's face again, and she stood quite still for a moment, looking
at him. "Good-bye," he said, holding out his hand, and trying hard to smile a little.

Clare looked at him still, but her hand did not meet his, though he waited, holding it out
to her. Her face hardened as though she were making an effort, then softened again, and still
he waited.

"Won't you say good-bye to me?" he asked unsteadily.

She hesitated a moment longer.

"No!" she answered suddenly. "I--I can't!"

       *       *       *       *       *

And here the story comes to its conclusion, as many stories out of the lives of men and women
seem to end at what is only their turning-point. For real life has no conclusion but real death,
and that is a sad ending to a tale, and one which may as well be left to the imagination when
it is possible.

Stories of strange things, which really occur, very rarely have what used to be called a "moral"
either. JOHN JAMES

Pasarse

NOVEL

I

Any smart person who should be respected for the
summer.

It is a vulgar stay in Madrid summer.

As tonic water is going to some in Germany or France, then a season pass to shore at Biarritz
or Trouville in Brighton, and end the summer, before returning to this town and court, in a
magnificent chateau or anything like that, that we possess, if possible, in a strange land,
and when not, although this is less comm'il faut, in our Spanish homeland.

This is the ultimate aristocratic ideal to which we aspire as regards all summer. To do fully offered
many obstacles. If there were any logic at all about what
goes between birth and death, men would have found it out long ago, and we should all know
how to live as soon as we leave school; whereas we spend our lives under Fate's ruler, trying
to understand, while she raps us over the knuckles every other minute because we cannot learn
our lesson and sit up straight, and be good without being prigs, and do right without sticking
it through other people's peace of mind as one sticks a pin through a butterfly.

