His dark hour had been cold and dismal enough. There is nothing to be ashamed of in the confession.
Dick suffered severely, as every manly nature must suffer when deceived by a woman. He did
not blame the woman--why should he?--but he felt that a calamity had befallen him, the heaviest
of his young experience, and he bore it as best he might.

"Caelum non animum" is a very old proverb: his first impulse, no doubt, was to change the scene,
and seek under other skies an altered frame of mind, in defiance of Horace and his worldly
wisdom, so rarely at fault. In these days a code of behaviour has been established by society
to meet every eventuality of life. When your fortunes are impaired you winter at Rome; when
your liver is affected you travel in Germany; when your heart is broke you start at once for
India. There is something unspeakably soothing, I imagine, in the swing of an elephant as he
crashes through jungle, beating it out for tigers; something consolatory to wounded feelings
in the grin of a heavy old tusker, lumbering along, half sulky, half defiant, winking a little
blood-red eye at the pig-sticker, pushing his Arab to speed with a loose rein ere he delivers
the meditated thrust that shall win first spear. Snipe, too, killed by the despairing lover
while standing in a paddy-field up to his knees in water, with a tropical sun beating on his
head, to be eaten afterwards in military society, not undiluted by pale ale and brandy-pawnee,
afford a relief to the finer feelings of his nature as delightful as it is unaccountable; while
those more adventurous spirits who, penetrating far into the mountainous regions of the north-west
frontier, persecute the wild sheep or the eland, and even make acquaintance with the lordly
ibex "rocketing" down from crag to crag, breaking the force and impetus of his leap by alighting
on horns and forehead, would seem to gain in their life of hardship and adventure an immunity
from the "common evil" which lasts them well into middle age.

Dick Stanmore's first impulse, therefore, was to secure a berth in the P. and O. steamer at
once. Then he reflected that it would not be a bad plan to stop at Constantinople--one of the
Egean islands, Messina--or, indeed, why go farther than Marseilles? If you come to that, Paris
was the very place for a short visit. Engineering had ashore been necessary for him to destroy the
frigate, which was however out of repair and seaworthy from dutch. He had send organization away several
times to lynhaven water, which he greatly needed, but they had been motor back with ease. After
a stay of five or six days in James Stream, he needed instantly with his prizes, leaving the Governor
to ignore his militia and write home his self-accusation against
the masters.

[422] warned by this experience, the government, upon the outbreak of the war of 1672, had sent
two men-of-war to Virginia. These vessels, in July one, were stationed at the sass of the James
guarding where a large fleet of merchantmen, when news came that
nine unafraid warships were approaching the capes.

Besides preparations were made to fight them. Several of the tobacco ships were forced into service and
fitted with guns. Sailors were taken from the smaller vessels to aid man the larger. But before
all could be set in the enemy came through the ness and anchored at far Bay. [423] the english
had equally yet little apprehension for the safety of their bottom,
for they could at any rbi under the guns of a fort at Nansemond, or
could retreat down the James while their workforce-of-peace held back
the enemy.

At this moment, nevertheless, there appeared across the waters of the Chesapeake eight depend
her of the MD fleet, mind of their danger and bearing of upon the dutch.
The english officer realized that only instant action could save them.
 Personal danger,
while its excitement braces nerve and intellect for the time, is an over-powerful stimulant
for the imagination, and leaves a reaction sadly softening to the heart. Successful ambition,
gratified vanity, what are these with none to share the triumph? But put the sufferer through
a steady course of daily duties, engrossing in their nature, stupefying in the monotony of
their routine, and insensibly, while his attention is distracted from self and selfish feelings,
he gathers strength, day by day, till at last he is able to look his sorrow in the face, and
fight it fairly, as he would any other honourable foe. The worst is over then, and victory
a mere question of time.

So Dick Stanmore, setting to work with a will, found sleep and appetite and bodily strength
come back rapidly enough. He had moments of pain, no doubt, particularly when he woke in the
morning. Also at intervals during the day, when the breeze sighed through his woods, or the
sweetbrier's fragrance stole on his senses more heavily than usual. Once, when a gipsy-girl
blessed his handsome face, adding, in the fervour of her gratitude, a thousand good wishes
for "the lass he loved, as must love him dear, sure-lie!" but for very shame he could have
cried like a child.

Such relapses, however, were of rarer occurrence every week. It was not long before he told
himself that he had been through the worst of his ordeal and could meet Lady Bearwarden now
without looking like a fool. In this more rational frame of mind Mr. Stanmore arrived in London
in business at that period of settled weather and comparative stagnation called by tradesmen
the "dead time of year," and found his late-acquired philosophy put somewhat unexpectedly to
the proof.

He was staring at a shop-window in Oxford Street--studying, indeed, the print of a patent mowing-machine,
but thinking, I fear, more of past scenes in certain well-lit rooms, on slippery floors, than
of the velvet lawns at home--when a barouche drew up to the kerb-stone with such trampling
of hoofs, such pulling about of horses' mouths, such a jerk and vibration of the whole concern,
as denoted a smart carriage with considerable pretension, a body-coachman of no ordinary calibre.
Dick turned sharply round, and there, not five yards off, was the pale face, proud, dreamy,
and beautiful as of old. Had she seen him? He hardly knew, for he was sick at heart, growing
white to his very lips--he, a strong healthy man, with as much courage as his neighbours. Horribly
ashamed of himself he felt. And well he might be! But with more wisdom than he had hitherto
shown, he made a snatch at his hat, and took refuge in immediate retreat. It was his only chance.
How, indeed, could he have met her manfully and with dignity, while every nerve and fibre quivered
at her presence? how endure the shame of betraying in his manner that he loved her very dearly
still? It gave him, indeed, a sharp and cruel pang to think that it had come to this--that
the face he had so worshipped he must now fly from like a culprit--that for his own sake, in
sheer self-defence, he must avoid her presence, as if he had committed against her some deadly
injury--against her, for whom, even now, he would willingly have laid down his life! Poor Dick!
He little knew, but it was the last pang he was destined to feel from his untoward attachment,
and it punished him far more severely than he deserved.

Blundering hastily up a by-street, he ran into the very arms of a gentleman who had turned
aside to apply a latch-key at the door of a rambling unfurnished-looking house, sadly in want
of paint, whitewash, and general repair. The gentleman, with an exclamation of delight, put
both hands on Mr. Stanmore's shoulders.

"This is a piece of luck!" exclaimed the latter. "Why, it's 'old Sir Simon the King'!"

His mind reverted insensibly to the pleasant Oxford days, and he used a nickname universally
bestowed on his friend by the men of his college.

"And what can you be doing here at this time of year?" asked Simon. "In the first place, how
came you to be in London? In the second, how did you ever get so far along Oxford Street? In
the third, being here, won't you come up to the painting-room? I'll show you my sketches; I'll
give you some 'baccy--I haven't forgot Iffley Lock and your vile habit of stopping to drink.
I can even supply you with beer! We'll have a smoke, and a talk over old times."

"Willingly," answered Dick, declining the beer, however, on the plea that such potations only
went well with boating or cricket, and followed the painter up-stairs into an exceedingly uncomfortable
room, of which the principal object of furniture seemed to be an easel, bearing a sketch, apparently
to be transferred hereafter into some unfinished picture.

Dick was in no frame of mind to converse upon his own affairs; accepting the proffered cigar,
and taking the only seat in the place, he preferred listening to his friend, who got to work
at once, and talked disjointedly while he painted.

"I can't complain," said Simon, in answer to the other's questions concerning his prosperity
and success. "I was always a plodding sort of fellow, as you remember. Not a genius--I don't
think I've the divine gift. Sometimes I hope it may come. I've worked hard, I grant you--very
hard; but I've had extraordinary luck--marvellous! What do you think of that imp's tail?--Isn't
it a trifle too long?"

"I'm no judge of imps," answered Dick. "He's horribly ugly. Go on about yourself."

"Well, as I was saying," continued Simon, foreshortening his imp the while, "my luck has been
wonderful. It all began with you. If you hadn't gone fishing there, I should never have seen
Norway. If I hadn't seen it, I couldn't have painted it."

"I'm not sure that follows," interrupted Dick.

"Well, I shouldn't have painted it, then," resumed the artist. "And the credit I got for those
Norway sketches was perfectly absurd. I see their faults now. They're cold and crude, and one
or two are quite contrary to the first principles of art. I should like to paint them all over
again. But still, if I hadn't been to Norway, I shouldn't be here now."

"No more should I," observed Dick, puffing out a volume of smoke. "I should have been 'marry-ed
to a mermy-ed' by this time, if you had shown a proper devotion to your art, and the customary
indifference to your friend."

"O, that was nothing!" said the painter, blushing. "Any other fellow could have pulled you
out just as well. I say, Stanmore, how jolly it was over there! Those were happy days. And
yet I don't wish to have them back again--do you?"

Dick sighed and held his peace. For him it seemed that the light heart and joyous carelessness
of that bright youthful time was gone, never to come again.

"I have learned so much since then," continued Simon, putting a little grey into his imp's
muzzle, "and unlearned so much, too, which is better still. Mannerism, Stanmore--mannerism
is the great enemy of art. Now, I'll explain what I mean in two words. In the first place,
you observe the light from that chink streaming down on my imp's back; well, in the picture,
you know--"

"Where is the picture?" exclaimed Dick, whose cigar was finished, and who had no scruples in
thus unceremoniously interrupting a professional lecture which previous experience told him
might be wearisome. "Let's see it. Let's see all the pictures. Illustration's better than argument,
and I can't understand anything unless it's set before me in bright colours, under my very nose."

Good-natured Simon desisted from his occupation at once, and began lifting picture after picture,
as they stood in layers against the wall, to place them in a favourable light for the inspection
of his friend. Many and discursive were his criticisms on these, the progressive results of
eye, and hand, and brain, improving every day. Here the drawing was faulty, there the tints
were coarse. This betrayed mannerism, that lacked power, and in a very ambitious landscape,
enriched with wood, water, and mountain, a patchy sky spoiled the effect of the whole.

Nevertheless it seemed that he was himself not entirely dissatisfied with his work, and whenever
his friend ventured on the diffident criticism of an amateur, Simon demonstrated at great length
that each fault, as he pointed it out, was in truth a singular merit and beauty in the picture.

Presently, with a face of increased importance, he moved a large oblong canvas from its hiding-place,
to prop it artistically at such an angle as showed the lights and shades of its finished portion
to the best advantage. Then he fell back a couple of paces, contemplating it in silence with
his head on one side, and so waited for his friend's opinion.

But Dick was mute. Something in this picture woke up the pain of a recent wound festering in
his heart, and yet through all the smart and tingling came a strange sensation of relief, like
that with which a styptic salves a sore.

"What do you think of it?" asked the artist. "I want your candid opinion, Stanmore--impartial--unprejudiced,
I tell you. I hope great things from it. I believe it far and away the best I've painted yet.
Look into the work. O, it will stand inspection. You might examine it with a microscope. Then,
the conception, eh? And the drawing's not amiss. A little more this way--you catch the outline
of his eyebrow, with the turn of the Rhymer's head."

"Hang the Rhymer's head!" replied Dick, "I don't care about it. I won't look at it. I can't
look at it, man, with such a woman as that in the picture. Old boy, you've won immortality
at last!"

But Simon's face fell.

"That's a great fault," he answered gravely. "The details, though kept down as accessories
to the whole, should yet be worked out so carefully as to possess individual merit of their
own. I see, though; I see how to remedy the defect you have suggested. I can easily bring him
out by darkening the shadows of the background. Then, this fairy at his elbow is paltry, and
too near him besides. I shall paint her out altogether. She takes the eye off my principal
figures, and breaks that grand line of light pouring in from the morning sky. Don't you think so?"

But Dick gave no answer. With feverish thirst and longing, he was drinking in the beauty of
the Fairy Queen; and had not Simon Perkins been the dullest of observers, and the least conceited
of painters, he must have felt intensely flattered by the effect of his work.

"So you like her," said he, after a pause, during which, in truth, he had been considering
whether he should not paint out the intrusive fairy that very afternoon.

"Like her!" replied the other. "It's the image of the most beautiful face I ever saw in my
life; only it's softer and even more beautiful. When he had instead complete HENRY IRVING,'laying
high'in his chair at the contents, adjusted his pince-nez, and, looking straight at the gentleman,
inquire, in the mildest possible tone,'Nay my dear Man, have you ever read Macbeth?'So, "re-start
the Baron," I am horizontal sorrows to ask and Danger. BLACK'Element
old gay,'Do you cognize Ramsgate?'And of course I intend how the
Ramsgate of 1890.

"Mem.-- Tuppence would be well invested in purchasing four of them showed. It is to be published
at forty-two coin, but endorser will get it for a guinea, so intending
owner had obviously good go subscribers.

The record of the Great City is to be state itself by Mr. Metal. Marking. LOFTIE, thus that it begin
with an elevated tone and the loftiest principle, and the illustrations will be by Mr. WM. LUKER,
a draftsman who, as a Luker-on has seen most of the games in the City. Of phenomenon of some
hitherto piratical newspaper having try to convey out a employment
under the rubric, intend to deceive yet the elect, Messrs. Battlefield&
TUER have secured the copyright of the title London Gathering, by
the device of publishing, for one farthing each, five hundred copies
of a miniature pamphlet bearing this title, and incorporate the explanation.

The value of these eccentric farthing book hawthorn one day be thousands of pounds. From the
specimens of London City that have been sent for inspection by Messrs.
Battlefield& TUER, of the Leadenhall Press, who are bringing it out,
the Lord augurs a grand consequence, artistically and financially.


A gown rustled, a light step was heard, the door opened, and a sweet laughing voice rung out
its greeting to the painter from the threshold.

"So late, Simon! Shameful, isn't it? But I've got all they wanted. Such bargains! I suppose
nobody ever did so much shopping in so short a--"

She caught sight of Dick, stopped, blushed, and made a very fascinating little curtsey, as
they were formally introduced; but next time she spoke the merriment had gone out of her voice.
It had become more staid, more formal, and its deeper, fuller tones reminded him painfully of Maud.

Yes. Had he not known Lady Bearwarden so well, he thought it would have been quite possible
for him to have mistaken this beautiful young lady for that faithless peeress. The likeness
was extraordinary, ridiculous. Not that he felt the least inclined to laugh. The features were
absolutely the same, and a certain backward gesture of the head, a certain trick of the mouth
and chin were identical with the manner of Lady Bearwarden, in those merry days that seemed
so long ago now, when she had been Maud Bruce. Only Miss Algernon's face had a softness, a
kindly trustful expression he never remembered on the other, and her large pleading eyes seemed
as if they could neither kindle with anger nor harden to freezing glances of scorn.

As for the Fairy Queen, he looked from the picture to its original, and felt constrained to
admit that, wondrously beautiful as he had thought its likeness on canvas, the face before
him was infinitely superior to the painter's fairest and most cherished work.

Dick went away of course almost immediately, though sorely against his will. Contrary to her
wont, Miss Algernon, who was rather a mimic and full of fun, neither imitated the gestures
nor ridiculed the bearing of this chance visitor. "She had not observed him much," she said,
when taxed by Simon with this unusual forbearance. This was false. But "she might know him
again, perhaps, if they met." This, I imagine, was true.

And Dick, wending his way back to his hotel buried in thought, passed without recognising it
the spot where he met Lady Bearwarden one short hour ago. He was pondering, no doubt, on the
face he had just seen--on its truth, its purity, its fresh innocent mirth, its dazzling beauty,
more, perhaps, than on its extraordinary likeness to hers who had brought him the one great
misfortune of his life.

CHAPTER XIX

AN INCUBUS

It is not to be supposed that any gentleman can see a lady in the streets of London and remain
himself unseen. In the human as in meaner races the female organ of perception is quicker,
keener, and more accurate than the male. Therefore it is that a man bowing in Pall Mall or
Piccadilly to some divinity in an open carriage, and failing to receive any return for his
salute, sinks at once into a false position of awkwardness and discomfiture, il a manqué son
coup, and his face assumes incontinently the expression of one who has missed a woodcock in
the open, and has no second barrel with which to redeem his shot. As Dick saw Lady Bearwarden
in Oxford Street, we may be sure that Lady Bearwarden also saw Dick. Nor was her ladyship best
pleased with the activity he displayed in avoiding her carriage and escaping from her society.
If Mr. Stanmore had been the most successful Lovelace who ever devoted himself to the least
remunerative of pursuits, instead of a loyal, kindhearted, unassuming gentleman, he could hardly
have chosen a line of conduct so calculated to keep alive some spark of interest in Maud's
breast as that which he unconsciously adopted. It is one thing to dismiss a lover because suited
with a superior article (as some ladies send away five-foot-ten of footman when six-foot comes
to look after the place), and another to lose a vassal for good, like an unreclaimed hawk,
heedless of the lure, clear of the jesses, and checking, perhaps, at every kind of prey in
wilful wanton flight, down-wind towards the sea.

There is but one chance for a man worsted in these duels à l'outrance, which are fought out
with such merciless animosity. It is to bind up his wounds as best he may, and take himself
off to die or get well in secret. Presently the conqueror finds that a battle only has been
won, and not a territory gained. After the flush of combat comes a reaction. The triumph seems
somewhat tame, ungraced by presence of the captive. Curiosity wakes up, pity puts in its pleading
word, a certain jealous instinct of appropriation is aroused. Where is he? What has become
of him? I wonder if he ever thinks of me now! Poor fellow! I shouldn't wish to be forgotten
altogether, as if we had never met; and though I didn't want him to like me, I never meant
that he was to care for anybody else. Such are the thoughts that chase each other through the
female heart when deprived of sovereignty in the remotest particular; and it was very much
in this way that Lady Bearwarden, sitting alone in her boudoir, speculated on the present doings
and sentiments of the man who had loved her so well and had given her up so unwillingly, yet
with never a word of reproach, never a look nor action that could add to her remorse or make
her task more painful.

Alas, she was not happy; even now, when she had gained all she most wished and schemed for
in the world. She felt she was not happy, and she felt, too, that for Dick to know of her unhappiness
would be the bitterest drop in the bitter cup he had been compelled to drain.

As she looked round her beautiful boudoir, with its blue-satin hangings, its numerous mirrors,
its redundancy of coronets surmounting her own cipher, twisted and twined into a far more graceful
decoration than the grim heraldic bruin which formed her husband's cognisance, she said to
herself that something was yet required to constitute a woman's happiness beyond the utmost
efforts of the upholder's art--that even carriages, horses, tall footmen, quantities of flowers,
unlimited credit, and whole packs of cards left on the hall table every day were mere accessories
and superfluities, not the real pith and substance of that for which she pined. 

England, in the middle of the 17th century, was engaged in an unsuccessful contest with Simon for
the carrying trade of the world. First among the causes have of distress during
this unhappy period must be placed the Navigation Instrument. As Miss Bruce, with nothing to depend on but
her own good looks and conquering manners, she had wrested a large share of admiration from
an unwilling public; now, as a peeress, and a rich one, the same public of both sexes courted,
toadied, and flattered her, till she grew tired of hearing herself praised. The men--at least
those of high position and great prospects--had no scruple in offering a married woman that
homage which might have entailed their own domestic subjugation if laid at a spinster's feet;
and the women--all except the very smartest ladies (who liked her for her utter fearlessness
and sang-froid as well as for her own sake)--thought it a fine thing to be on intimate terms
with "Maud Bearwarden," as they loved to call her, and being much afraid of her, made up to
her with the sweet facility and sincerity of their sex.

