The great striding creature slowed, spoke to me with a voice full of a deep music.

"Do you trust this man?"

"He may be trusted in this case. He has already risked his life to set you free."

She set me down. I looked at Holaf, who was too excited to be amused.

"Hasten, we must get under cover at once. A place awaits, and many men, arms, tools. We have
long fought for this day, Cyane!" Holaf was wholly ecstatic to see the success of his plans.
I realized the prince had made an ally of him with the same kind of interview the queen had
granted me.

Holaf led us around the side of the mountain, keeping in the shelter of the trees, and by a
back route to the same hideaway in the mountainside where I had first met him.

I greeted Nokomee with a glad smile, but her smile was not so glad and my heart was hurt to
find she was angry with me. But the great Croen creature left us no time for argument.

The caves where the two hundred or so Zervs had hidden for so long were quite numerous and
confusingly branched. There was room there to hide an army if needed.

I went at once to the small chamber where Nokomee had placed the packs and camping equipment
from the horses, and took out one of Hank's big old forty-fives, belted it on. The old-fashioned
belt was filled with cartridges. I also took my own Winchester Model .70. I had a plentiful
supply of 130-grain Spitzer-point bullets, a high-velocity, long-range killer that I might
get a chance to use. I filled my pockets with cartridges, took a knapsack and filled that.
So, burdened down with lethal equipment, I hurried back to Cyane's side. I didn't want to miss
a move of that visitor from far space. I wanted to learn, and I had an idea she would show
plenty of science if she got into action. The prince wasn't gambling on her for nothing, not
with that glorious sister of his in jeopardy.

She had seated herself on that same big bench where I had first met the Zoorph, Carna, and
the Zervs were coming and going to her rapidly-given orders. A dozen of the older Zervs were
assembling apparatus under her direction, and if I expected to learn something, I saw I was
going to be disappointed, for the stuff was inexplicable to me.

I went on outside to the ledge from which the city could be seen. I was worried about how Genner
had explained to the Jivros the death of the two who had accompanied him. I had taken a pair
of small binoculars from my packs, and seeing activity near the gates of the wall, I trained
the lenses upon the wall.

I gave a cry which brought the Zervs speeding to me. I handed the focused glasses to Holaf,
pointed at the gates. He put them to his eyes, then he too gave a cry of warning, and raced
back to the Croen.

For, filing out of the gates and spreading out across the valley was the vanguard of an army.
The glass had shown the streets filled with marching men.

For a few minutes I could not understand exactly what had happened, then I guessed. The prince
had asked for permission to use the entire forces of the city in a search for the Croen! The
strategy of the man was exquisite. He was playing on the Jivro fear of the Croen to get the
military power fully in his hands!

Even as the great limbs of the Croen woman brought her to my side, as I handed her the glasses,
round disk ships began to rise from the center of the city one after the other until at least
five score of the smaller type were in the sky. After them came two of the larger craft that
I knew were really space ships with huge inner chambers in the bottom where the small craft nested.

An all-out search for the Croen was on in earnest!

But now quite suddenly an astonishing thing happened. One of the great mother ships swung in
a circle, came alongside the other, and from the great center bulge of the upper surface a
blue beam lashed out, struck the other in a slicing flare and sheared off the entire upper
bulge in one blow. The great ship faltered for an instant, then began to fall. It struck the
ground near the wall with a blinding explosion. As the great mushroom of white smoke began
to lift up, the stem of the mushroom blew away, and where the ship had fallen was only a hole,
surrounded by bits of shattered metal. The wall near the explosion was breached in a fifty-foot-wide
break, and the bodies of men could be seen through the breach, killed by concussion.

From the city a blazing yellow beam lanced here and there in pursuit of the traitor disk, but
it darted like a dragonfly, up, down, and zig-zag. The pursuing beam came nowhere near it.
Somehow I knew the prince, and perhaps Wananda too, were in that ship, and my heart was in
my throat as I thought of the queen in that ship, being shot at by the repulsive insect men.

The army deploying on the plain kept right on marching, columns slanting outward from the center,
forming three columns that spread out like the extending prongs of a trident. I could make
nothing of it.

Several dogfights had broken out among the smaller disk ships since the fall of the mother
disk, but these were quickly over, and the flight came on, swift as arrows.

The remaining mother disk settled to earth on the level land directly below our hiding place,
and the smaller disk settled now around it. The army marched on, nearer and nearer.

I looked at Holaf, handed him the glasses.

"I don't know whether we are lost, or, whether the prince has joined us, deserting the Jivros
in the city you Zervs built."

"None but Prince Genner knew our hiding place, and who else would place themselves under our
fire range, knowing we were here?" Even as he spoke, the door opened in the side of the great
disk, and the prince sprang out, turning to assist his sister to the ground.

The Croen, Cyane, standing beside me, suddenly leaped off the ledge, her long limbs making
easy going of the sloping detritus below. Seconds later she was running easily across the plain
toward the ship, and I was surprised to see the prince and the queen bow their knees to her,
kneel before her as if praying to a goddess. She touched the bowed heads with her fingertips,
and the three figures then entered the disk and the door closed. The ship lifted, took off
alone in a southerly direction, flying higher and higher and out of sight. Even as it disappeared,
another great disk lifted from the city, set out in the same direction in pursuit.

But the smaller ships below lifted at once as they sighted this pursuit, set out after the
second mother disk.

"I guess we're going to miss the fighting," I said to Holaf.

"We can get into it when the time is right. We've got to move at once. The Jivros know our
location now. Come on!"

Holaf strode back into the cavern that had been the Zerv's hideout for so long. I followed,
stopping curiously to examine the apparatus which the Croen had abandoned on the advent of
the prince. It was a kind of still, bubbling now with a wick lamp under the red fluid, and
nearly a gallon of the end product had collected in a big jar.

"What was this distillation all about?" I asked Holaf.

"It was a medicine she was making for the Shinro. She said that an injection into their blood
would increase their perceptions to a human range of intelligence, and that then we could use
their resulting rage against their mutilators. It is only a temporary effect. It will wear
off in a day, leave them again to the stupidity the Jivros gave them. Now, she's gone, I don't
even know the dosage. It is useless, the prince took her from us."

"We can use it, if it is complete. I have the needle I used to revive the Croen. Bring the
stuff; we'll try it."

"We could circle the army, get into the city...." said Holaf, his eyes glittering on mine.

"Let's go," I cried, getting his idea.

       *       *       *

We were near a hundred and fifty young Zerv fighters, and perhaps as many women and old men
and children. We wound through the passages of the tunnels in the mountain, came out on the
far side from the valley. Along the mountainside we traveled, and I realized we were at the
mercy of any force we met, being too few and too hampered with baggage and the helpless members
of the Zerv families.

But Holaf knew what to do. He pointed out a trail toward the wilderness to the thin little
column, told them where to take cover and await his return. Then with myself and a dozen of
his best warriors, he turned his face again toward the Jivro stronghold.

We circled the valley, marching hard, crossing the upper narrow end. Coming toward the city,
twilight was closing down, and we made the last few miles in complete darkness.

Near the walls, Holaf chopped a thirty-foot sapling, which we carried to the wall. A young
Zerv swarmed up the pole, let down a rope to help the ascent of the others. I climbed the rough
pole after him. I hadn't the athletic ability of these Zervs who seemed to like to climb ropes
hand over hand. So over and down into the silent city we went, drawing up pole and rope after
us, hiding them in the shadows of the wall.

Like shadows we stole along the streets, and after long minutes heard the unmistakable feet
of the Shinros. They came with that ghastly mechanical rhythmic tread, eyes staring, backs
burdened. I guessed that now their burdens were materials for the defense of the wall. We followed,
and not far distant from the breach of the explosion of the disk ship, found our chance. They
were accompanied by four of the hopping Jivros, and upon the back of each a young Zerv sprang,
silent as stalking cats, striking them down, crushing their skulls with vibro-gun barrels.

Holaf and I set to work immediately on the mindless Shinros, injecting shots of the red fluid
into their veins one by one, varying the shots to gauge the effect. But it was potent stuff,
and before I had the third man under the needle, the first was speaking in a hoarse, angry voice.

"What has happened to me, what--what?"

Holaf said: "These are almost all graft jobs, were once captives and normal men. The result,
if this shot works, is going to be a thoroughly angry man, fighting mad for the blood of the
Jivros." Then he raised his voice to the newly revived Shinro.

"You were made into a beast of burden by the Jivro insects! Tonight you will get your revenge.
This shot of sense we are giving you will last only till daylight, so your life does not matter--it
will revert to the beast in the morning. Go and spend your time where it will hurt the Jivros
most--spill their blood. Their power is ending this night! This is the beginning of the end
for all the Jivro parasites of our race. What we begin tonight will not stop till every Jivro
in the ancient Schree group of planets is dead and gone!"

As we completed our injections, the column stood waiting, but a column of sane men, ready to
shed Jivro blood for their revenge.

"Go as if to get more burdens of stone to repair the wall. When the Jivros show themselves,
kill, get weapons, do not stop killing until they are gone or you are dead. You have but this
night; make the most of it."

The column plodded off, in the same apparent condition we had first met them. But in their
brains was boiling, enraged sanity, in a condition of complete rebellion, of murderous intent.

"They'll sell their lives for something worthwhile, tonight," said Holaf into my ear, as we
set off on their trail. We intended to make the most of any opening the revived Shinros made
for us.

Two more columns of toiling Shinros we liberated with injections, then our supply of fluid
was exhausted. Just what more to do to hurt the Jivros we didn't know.

"How many ships do those Jivros have? Why are they always in hiding? Since I've been around
here I haven't seen a dozen of 'em at one time!" I asked Holaf, my feet tired from sneaking
along the deserted streets.

"They never come out in the open except for some express reason, such as driving the Shinros
to work. They still have probably a score of ships."

"Twenty of those big disks?" I asked.

"Yes, I would say that many. But they will not bring them out to battle unless there is no
other way. A Jivro never does anything he can get a human to do. Now that they have only the
Shinros in the city, with the army out there searching for the Croen--and maybe the most of
it deserting to some rendezvous the prince sent them word about--they will do nothing unless
they must. You know how a spider hides when it senses danger?"

"There are many insects that hide when they are in fear."

"They have that trait, but they also have courage when desperation drives them. Now they are
holed up in their strongholds, waiting developments. They will only come out to fight if they
see an opportunity to crush their opposition, or if they are driven forth."

Suddenly the long beam of a searchlight lanced across the night sky above, then another and
another. For an instant a huge disk showed in the beam. It tilted and drove abruptly sideways
out of the light. The beam danced after. It was not seen again, and still more beams winked
on, began to search, systematically quartering the sky.

"I would say our friends, the Jivros, were in for it. The prince and the Croen are attacking,"
I said to Holaf.

He grunted.

"I didn't expect it so soon. They do not have the strength in ships. But the Croen must have
some stunt figured out to equalize their power."

We moved along pretty rapidly, keeping to the shadows, and soon were again at the side of that
flat, paved place from which the disk ships took off. Overhead loomed the beetling walls of
the palace from which the prince had led his people in revolt--manned now by the Jivros. I
wondered how it felt to them to have to do their own fighting.

The beams moving about from the top of the building lit the streets about us with a distinct
glow. It was no place to remain. We moved back along the parallel street, and I had an idea.
Whatever was I carrying all this weight of heavy game rifle and knapsack of cartridges, and
not even getting in position for a shot? I gestured to Holaf and tapped the rifle, pointing up.

He got the idea, led me to a dark doorway and we entered the building, made our way to the
roof. Lying prone along the parapet of the roof, I adjusted the sights for two hundred yards,
and swung the rifle sight slowly across the flat roof of the palace. The reflections of the
big searchlights made the surface quite bright, and about each light was a group of the tall
white-robed Jivros. They made perfect targets!

I began to fire, taking my time, centering each figure exactly. At each shot, one Jivro fell.
I had fired but a score of times, and the white-robed creatures began to leave the lights,
to cluster about the archway over the roof stair.

Grouped as they now were, I did not need to aim. I fired four more clips as rapidly as I could
load them. Then the remaining Jivros began to swing the great beams in a frantic search for
the deadly fire. As the beam swung toward us, Holaf seized my head, pushed it beneath the parapet.
The beam swept on without pausing. I raised my head and kept on firing.

All of the beams but two were now stationary and unattended. I could not reach these, the angle
of fire was wrong; but I could see the base of the lights, and as they swung again toward me,
I fired into the center of the beam. It blinked out. Holaf clapped me on the shoulder.

"Get the rest of the lights, man, never mind the damned insects! The Croen will take care of
them soon enough."

