To make an overshoe, the rubber is run through rollers and formed into thick sheets for soles
and thinner sheets for uppers. Another machine coats with gum the cloth used for lining and
stays. Rubber and rubber-lined cloth go to the cutting-room, where all the different parts
of the shoes are cut out. They are then put together and varnished. While still on the last,
they are dipped into a tank of varnish and vulcanized--a very simple matter now that Goodyear
has shown us how, for they are merely left in large, thoroughly heated ovens for eight or ten
hours. The rubber shoe or boot is now elastic, strong, waterproof, ready for any temperature,
and so firmly cemented together with rubber cement that it is practically all in one piece.

During the last few years there have been frequent calls from various charities for old rubber
overshoes, pieces of rubber hose, etc. These are of considerable value in rubber manufacturing.
They are run through a machine which tears them to shreds, then through a sort of fanning-mill
which blows away the bits of lining. Tiny pieces of iron may be present from nails or rivets;
but these are easily removed by magnets. This "reclaimed" rubber is powdered and mixed with
the new, and for some purposes the mixture answers very well. Imitation rubber has been made
by heating oil of linseed, hemp, maize, etc., with sulphur; but no substitute for rubber is
a success for all uses.

There are many little conveniences made of rubber which we should greatly miss, such as the
little tips put into pencil ends for erasing pencil marks. These are made by filling a mould
with rubber. Rubber corks are made in much the same manner. Tips for the legs of chairs are
made in a two-piece mould larger at the bottom than at the top, and with a plunger that nearly
fits the small end. Often on chair tips and in the cup-shaped eraser that goes over the ends
of some pencils you can see the "fin," as the glassworkers call it, where the two pieces of
the mould did not exactly fit. Rubber cannot be melted and cast in moulds like iron, but it
can be gently heated and softened, and then pressed into a mould. Rubber stamps are made in
this way. The making of rubber heels and soles is now a large industry; hose for watering and
for vacuum and Westinghouse brakes is made in increasing quantities. The making of rubber tires
for automobiles and carriages is an important industry. The enormous and increasing use of
electricity requires much use of rubber as an insulator. Rubber gloves will protect an electrical
workman from shock and a surgeon from infection. Rubber beds and cushions filled with air are
a great comfort in illness. Rubber has great and important uses; but we should perhaps miss
quite as much the little comforts and conveniences which it has made possible.

Rubber and gutta-percha are not the same substance by any means. Both of them are made of the
milky juice of trees, but of entirely different trees. The gutta-percha milk is collected in
an absurdly wasteful manner, namely, by cutting down the trees and scraping up the juice. When
this juice reaches the market, it is in large reddish lumps which look like cork and smell
like cheese. It has to be cleaned, passed through a machine that tears it into bits, then between
rollers before it is ready to be manufactured. It is not elastic like rubber; it may be stretched;
but it will not snap back again as rubber does. It is a remarkably good nonconductor of electricity,
and therefore it has been generally used to protect ocean cables, though recently rubber has
been taking its place. It makes particularly excellent casts, for when it is warm it is not
sticky, but softens so perfectly that it will show the tiniest indentation of a mould. It is
the best kind of splint for a broken bone. If a boy breaks his arm, a surgeon can put a piece
of gutta-percha into hot water, set the bone, bind on the softened gutta-percha for a splint,
and in a few minutes it will be moulded to the exact shape of the arm, but so stiff as to keep
the bone in place. Another good service which gutta-percha renders to the physician results
from its willingness to dissolve in chloroform. If the skin is torn off, leaving a raw surface,
this dissolved gutta-percha can be poured over it, and soon it is protected by an artificial
skin which keeps the air from the raw flesh and gives the real skin an opportunity to grow again.

III

"KID" GLOVES

There is an old proverb which says, "For a good glove, Spain must dress the leather, France
must cut it, and England must sew it." Many pairs of most excellent gloves have never seen
any one of these countries, but the moral of the proverb remains, namely, that it takes considerable
work and care to make a really good glove.

The first gloves made in the United States were of thick buckskin, for there was much heavy
work to be done in the forest and on the land. The skin was tanned in Indian fashion, by rubbing
into the flesh side the brains of the deer--though how the Indians ever thought of using them
is a mystery. Later, the white folk tried to tan with pigs' brains; but however valuable the
brains of a pig may be to himself, they do not contain the properties of soda ash which made
those of the deer useful for this purpose.

Years ago, when a man set out to manufacture gloves, usually only a few dozen pairs, he cut
out a pattern from a shingle or a piece of pasteboard, laid it upon a skin, marked around it,
and cut it out with shears. Pencils were not common, but the glovemaker was fully equal to
making his own. He melted some lead, ran it into a crack in the kitchen floor--and cracks were
plentiful--and then used this "plummet," as it was called, for a marker. After cutting the
large piece for the front and back of the glove, he cut out from the scraps remaining the "fourchettes,"
or forks; that is, the narrow strips that make the sides of the fingers. Smaller scraps were
put in to welt the seams; and all this went off in great bundles to farmhouses to be sewed
by the farmers' wives and daughters for the earning of pin-money. If the gloves were to be
the most genteel members of the buckskin race, there was added to the bundle a skein of silk,
with which a slender vine was to be worked on the back of the hand. The sewing was done with
a needle three-sided at the point, and a stout waxed thread was used. A needle of this sort
went in more easily than a round one, but even then it was rather wearisome to push it through
three thicknesses of stout buckskin. Moreover, if the sewer happened to take hold of the needle
too near the point, the sharp edges were likely to make little cuts in her fingers.

After a while sewing machines were invented, and factories were built, and now in a single
county of the State of New York many thousand people are at work making various kinds of leather
coverings for their own hands and those of other folk. Better methods of tanning have been
discovered, and many sorts of leather are now used, especially for the heavier gloves. Deer
are not so common as they used to be, and a "buckskin" glove is quite likely to have been made
of the hide of a cow or a horse. "Kid" generally comes from the body of a sheep instead of
that of a young goat. Our best real kidskin comes from a certain part of France, where the
climate seems to be just suited to the young kids, there is plenty of the food that they like,
and, what is fully as important, they receive the best of care. It is said that to produce
the very finest kidskin, the kids are fed on nothing but milk, are treated with the utmost
gentleness, and are kept in coops or pens carefully made so that there shall be nothing to
scratch their tender skins.

Glovemakers are always on the lookout for new kinds of material, and when, not many years ago,
there came from Arabia with a shipment of Mocha coffee two bales of an unknown sort of skin,
they were eager to try it. It tanned well and made a glove that has been a favorite from the
first. The skin was found to come from a sheep living in Arabia, Abyssinia, and near the headwaters
of the river Nile. It was named Mocha from the coffee with which it came, and Mocha it has
been ever since. The Suède glove has a surface much like that of the Mocha. Its name came from
"Swede," because the Swedes were the first to use the skin with the outside in.

Most of our thinner "kid" gloves are made of lambskin; but dressing the skins is now done so
skillfully in this country that "homemade" gloves are in many respects fully as good as the
imported; indeed, some judges declare that in shape and stitching certain grades are better.
When sheepskins and lambskins come to market from a distance, they are salted. They have to
be soaked in water, all bits of flesh scraped off, and the hair removed, generally by the use
of lime. After another washing, they are put into alum and salt for a few minutes; and after
washing this off, they are dried, stretched, and then are ready for the softening. Nothing
has been found that will soften the skins so perfectly as a mixture of flour, salt, and the
yolk of eggs--"custard," as the workmen call it. The custard and the skins are tumbled together
into a great iron drum which revolves till the custard has been absorbed and the skins are
soft and yielding. Now they are stretched one way and another, and wet so thoroughly that they
lose all the alum and salt that may be left and also much of the custard.

Now comes dyeing. The skin is laid upon a table, smooth side up, and brushed over several times
with the coloring matter; very lightly, however, for if the coloring goes through the leather,
the hands of the customers may be stained and they will buy no more gloves of that make. The
skins are now moistened and rolled and left for several weeks to season. When they are unrolled,
the whole skin is soft and pliable. It is thick, however, and no one who is not an expert can
thin it properly. The process is called "mooning" because the knife used is shaped like a crescent
moon. It is flat, its center is cut out, and the outer edge is sharpened. Over the inner curve
is a handle. The skin is hung on a pole, and the expert workman draws the mooning knife down
it until any bit of dried flesh remaining has been removed, and the skin is of the same thickness,
or, rather, thinness throughout.

All this slow, careful work is needed to prepare the skin for cutting out the glove; and now
it goes to the cutter. There is no longer any cutting out of gloves with shears and pasteboard
patterns, but there is a quick way and a slow way nevertheless. The man who cuts in the quick
way, the "block-cutter," as he is called, spreads out the skin on a big block made by bolting
together planks of wood with the grain running up and down. He places a die in the shape of
the glove upon the leather, gives one blow with a heavy maul, and the glove is cut out. This
answers very well for the cheaper and coarser gloves, but to cut fine gloves is quite a different
matter. This needs skill, and it is said that no man can do good "table-cutting" who has not
had at least three years' experience; and even then he may not be able to do really first-class
work. He dampens the skin, stretches it first one way and then the other, and examines it closely
for flaws or scratches or weak places. He must put on his die in such a way as to get two pairs
of ordinary gloves or one pair of "elbow gloves" out of the skin if possible, and yet he must
avoid the poor places if there are any. No glove manufacturer can afford to employ an unskilled
or careless cutter, for he will waste much more than his wages amount to. There used to be
one die for the right hand and another for the left, and it was some time before it occurred
to any one that the same die would cut both gloves if only the skin was turned over.

Now comes the sewing. Count the pieces in a glove, and this will give some idea of the work
needed to sew them together. Notice that the fourchettes are sewed together on the wrong side,
the other seams on the right side, and that the tiny bits of facing and lining are hemmed down
by hand. Notice that two of the fingers have only one fourchette, while the others have two
fourchettes each. Notice how neatly the ends of the fingers are finished, with never an end
of thread left on the right side. The embroidery must be in exactly the right place, and it
must be fastened firmly at both ends. This embroidery is not a meaningless fashion, for the
lines make the hand look much more slender and of a better shape. Sewing in the thumbs needs
special care and skill. There must be no puckering, and the seam must not be so tightly drawn
as to leave a red line on the hand when the glove is taken off. No one person does all the
sewing on a glove; it must pass through a number of hands, each doing a little. Even after
all the care that is given it, a glove is a shapeless thing when it comes from the sewing machines.
It is now carried to a room where stands a long table with a rather startling row of brass
hands of different sizes stretching up from it. These are heated, the gloves are drawn upon
them, and in a moment they have shape and finish, and are ready to be inspected and sold.

The glove is so closely associated with the hand and with the person to whom the hand belongs
that in olden times it was looked upon as representing him. When, for instance, a fair could
not be opened without the presence of some noble, it was enough if he sent his glove to represent
him. To throw down one's glove before a man was to challenge him to a combat. At the coronation
of Queen Elizabeth, as of many other sovereigns of England, the "Queen's champion," a knight
in full armor, rode into the great hall and threw down his glove, crying, "If there be any
manner of man that will say and maintain that our sovereign Lady, Queen Elizabeth, is not the
rightful and undoubted inheritrix to the imperial crown of this realm of England, I say he
lieth like a false traitor, and therefore I cast him my gage."

IV

HOW RAGS AND TREES BECOME PAPER

It was a great day for the children on the farm when the tin peddler came around. He had a
high red wagon, fairly bristling with brooms, mop-handles, washtubs, water-pails, and brushes.
When he opened his mysterious drawers and caverns, the sunshine flashed upon tin pans, dippers,
dustpans, and basins. Put away rather more choicely were wooden-handled knives, two-tined forks,
and dishes of glass and china; and sometimes little tin cups painted red or blue and charmingly
gilded, or cooky-cutters in the shape of dogs and horses. All these rare and delightful articles
he was willing to exchange for rags. Is it any wonder that the thrifty housewife saved her
rags with the utmost care, keeping one bag for white clippings and one for colored?

These peddlers were the great dependence of the paper mills, for the finest paper is made from
linen and cotton rags. When the rags reach the factory, they are carefully sorted. All day
long the sorters sit before tables whose tops are covered with coarse wire screens, and from
masses of rags they pick out buttons, hooks and eyes, pins, bits of rubber, and anything else
that cannot possibly be made into paper. At the same time they sort the rags carefully into
different grades, and with a knife shaped like a small sickle fastened upright to the table
they cut them into small pieces. Some of the dust falls through the screen; but to remove the
rest of it, the cut-up rags are tossed about in a wire drum. Sometimes they are so dusty that
when they come out of the drum they weigh only nine tenths as much as when they go in. The
dust is out of them, but not the dirt. To remove that, they are now put into great boilers
full of steam; and here they cook and turn over, and turn over and cook for hours. Lime and
sometimes soda are put with them to cleanse them and remove the coloring material; but when
they are poured out, they look anything but clean, for they are of a particularly dirty brown;
and the water that is drained away from them looks even more uninteresting. Of course the next
step is to wash this dirty brown mass; and for at least four hours it is scrubbed in a machine
which beats it and rolls it and chops it and tumbles it about until the wonder is that anything
is left of it. All this while, the water has been flowing through it, coming in clean and going
out dirty; and at length the mass becomes so light a gray that making white paper of it does
not seem quite hopeless. It is now bleached with chloride of lime, and washed till it is of
a creamy white color and free from the lime, and then beaten again. If you fold a piece of
cheap paper and tear it at the fold, it will tear easily; but if you do the same thing with
paper made of linen and cotton, you will find it decidedly tough. Moreover, if you look closely
at the torn edge of the latter, you will see the fibers clearly. It is because of the beating
that the fibers are so matted together and thus make the paper tough. While the pulp is in
the beater, the manufacturer puts in the coloring matter, if he wishes it to be tinted blue
or rose or lavender or any other color. No one would guess that this white or creamy or azure
liquid had ever been the dirty rags that came into the mill and were sorted on the wire tables.
Besides the coloring, a "filler" is usually added at this time, such as kaolin, the fine clay
of which china is made. This fills the pores and gives a smoother surface to the finished paper--a
good thing if too much is not put in. A little sizing is also added, made of rosin. Save for
this sizing, ink would sink into even the finished paper as it does into blotting paper. After
this, more water is added to the pulp and it is run into tanks.

Now the preparation is completed, and the pulp is pumped to large and complicated machines
which undertake to make it into paper. It first flows through screens which are shaken all
the while as if they were trembling. This shaking lets the liquid and the finer fibers through,
but holds back the little lumps, if any remain after all the beating and straining and cutting
that it has had. The pulp flows upon an endless wire screen. Rubber straps at the sides keep
it in, but the extra water drops through the meshes. The pulp is flowing onward, and so the
tiny fibers would naturally straighten out and flow with it, like sticks in a river; but the
wire screen is kept shaking sideways, and this helps the fibers to interlace, and the paper
becomes nearly as strong one way as the other.

If you hold a sheet of paper up to the light, it will show plainly what is next done to it.
Sometimes you can see that it is marked by light parallel lines running across it close together,
and crossed by other and stouter lines an inch or two apart. Sometimes the name of the paper
or that of the manufacturer is marked in the same way by letters lighter than the rest of the
sheet. Sometimes the paper is plain with no markings whatever. This difference is made by what
is called the "dandy," a cylinder covered with wire. For the first, or "laid" paper, the small
wires run the length of the cylinder and the stouter ones around it. Wherever the wires are,
the paper is a little thinner. In some papers this thinness can be seen and felt. For the second
kind of paper the design, or "watermark," is formed by wires a little thicker than the rest
of the covering. For the third, or "wove" paper, the dandy is covered with plain woven wire
like that of the wire cloth; so there are no markings at all. This work can be easily done
because at this point the paper is so moist.

The paper is now not in sheets, but in a long web like a web of cloth. It passes between felt-covered
rollers to press out all the water possible, then over steam-heated cylinders to be dried,
finally going between cold iron rollers to be made smooth, and is wound on a reel, trimmed
and cut into sheets of whatever size is desired. The finest note papers are not finished in
this way, but are partly dried, passed through a vat of thin glue, any excess being squeezed
off by rollers, then cut into sheets, and hung up to dry thoroughly at their leisure.

Paper made of properly prepared linen and cotton is by far the best, but there are so many
new uses for paper that there are not rags enough in the world to make nearly what is needed.
There are scores of newspapers and magazines where there used to be one; and as for paper bags
and cartons and boxes, there is no limit to their number and variety. A single manufacturer
of pens and pencils calls for four thousand different sorts and sizes of boxes. School-children's
use of paper instead of slates, the fashion of wrapping Christmas gifts in white tissue, and
the invention of the low-priced cameras have increased enormously the amount of paper called
for. In the attempt to supply the demand all sorts of materials have been used, such as hemp,
old rope, peat, the stems of flax, straw, the Spanish and African esparto grass, and especially
wood; but much more paper is made of wood than of all the rest together. Poplar, gum, and chestnut
trees, and especially those trees which bear cones, such as the spruce, fir, balsam, and pine
are used. There are two methods of manufacturing wood pulp; the mechanical, by grinding up
the wood, and the chemical, by treating it chemically. By the mechanical method the wood is
pressed against a large grindstone which revolves at a high speed. As fast as the wood is ground
off, it is washed away by a current of water, and strained through a shaking sieve and a revolving
screen which drives out part of the water by centrifugal force. In a great vat of pulp a drum
covered with wire cloth revolves, and on it a thin sheet of pulp settles. Felting, pressed
against this sheet, carries it onward through rolls. The sheets are pressed between coarse
sacking. Such paper is very poor stuff. In its manufacture the fiber of the wood is so ground
up that it has little strength. It is used for cardboard, cartons, and packing-papers. Unfortunately,
it is also used for newspapers; and while it is a good thing for some of them to drop to pieces,
it is a great loss not to have the others permanent. When we wish to know what people thought
about any event fifty years ago, we can look back to the papers of that time; but when people
fifty years from now wish to learn what we thought, many of the newspapers will have fallen
to pieces long before that time.

