"Dear Lyof Nikolaevitch,--Well, to-day I have received the official announcement of my call
to the Service; to-morrow I must present myself at the headquarters. That is all. And after
that--to the Far East to meet the Japanese bullets. About my own and my household's grief I
will not tell you; it is not you who will fail to understand all the horror of my position
and the horrors of war; all this you have long ago painfully realized, and you understand it
all. How I have longed to visit you, to have a talk with you! I had written to you a long letter
in which I described the torments of my soul; but I had not had time to copy it, when I received
my summons. What is my wife to do now with her four children? As an old man, of course, you
cannot do anything yourself for my folks, but you might ask some of your friends in their leisure
to visit my orphaned family. I beg you earnestly that if my wife proves unable to bear the
agony of her helplessness with her burden of children and makes up her mind to go to you for
help and counsel, you will receive and console her. Although she does not know you personally,
she believes in your word, and that means much. I was not able to resist the summons, but I
say beforehand that through me not one Japanese family shall be orphaned. My God! how dreadful
is all this--how distressing and painful to abandon all by which one lives and in which one
is concerned."

The second letter is as follows: "Kindest Lyof Nikolaevitch, Only one day of actual service
has passed, and I have already lived through an eternity of most desperate torments. From 8
o'clock in the morning till 9 in the evening we have been crowded and knocked about to and
fro in the barrack yard, like a herd of cattle. The comedy of medical examination was three
times repeated, and those who had reported themselves ill did not receive even ten minutes'
attention before they were marked 'Satisfactory.' When we, these two thousand satisfactory
individuals, were driven from the military commander to the barracks, along the road spread
out for almost a verst stood a crowd of relatives, mothers, and wives with infants in arms;
and if you had only heard and seen how they clasped their fathers, husbands, sons, and hanging
round their necks wailed hopelessly! Generally I behave in a reserved way and can restrain
my feelings, but I could not hold out, and I also wept. [In journalistic language this same
is expressed thus: "The upheaval of patriotic feeling is immense."] Where is the standard that
can measure all this immensity of woe now spreading itself over almost one-third of the world?
And we, we are now that food for cannon, which in the near future will be offered as sacrifice
to the God of vengeance and horror. I cannot manage to establish my inner balance. Oh! how
I execrate myself for this double-mindedness which prevents my serving one Master and God."

This man does not yet sufficiently believe that what destroys the body is not dreadful, but
that which destroys both the body and the soul, therefore he cannot refuse to go; yet while
leaving his own family he promises beforehand that through him not one Japanese family shall
be orphaned; he believes in the chief law of God, the law of all religions--to act toward others
as one wishes others to act toward oneself. Of such men more or less consciously recognizing
this law, there are in our time, not in the Christian world alone, but in the Buddhistic, Mahomedan,
Confucian, and Brahminic world, not only thousands but millions.

