AT the close of the first section we left the bride satisfied and at rest in the arms of her
Beloved, who had charged the daughters of Jerusalem not to stir up nor awaken His love until
she please. We might well suppose that a union so complete, a satisfaction so full, would never
be interrupted by failure on the part of the happy bride. But, alas, the experience of most
of us shows how easily communion with CHRIST may be broken, and how needful are the exhortations
of our LORD to those who are indeed branches of the true Vine, and cleansed by the Word which
He has spoken, to abide in Him. The failure is never on His side. "Lo, I am with you alway."

In this section the bride has drifted back from her position of blessing into a state of worldliness.
Perhaps the very restfulness of her new-found joy made her feel too secure: perhaps she thought
that, so far as she was concerned, there was no need for the exhortation, "Little children,
keep yourselves from idols." Or she may have thought that the love of the world was so thoroughly
taken away that she might safely go back, and, by a little compromise on her part, she might
win her friends to follow her LORD too. Perhaps she scarcely thought at all: glad that she
was saved and free, she forgot that the current--the course of this world--was against her;
and insensibly glided, drifted back to that position out of which she was called, unaware all
the time of backsliding. It is not necessary, when the current is against us, to turn the boat's
head down the stream in order to drift: or for a runner in a race to turn back in order to
miss the prize.

Ah, how often the enemy succeeds, by one device or another, in tempting the believer away from
that position of entire consecration to CHRIST in which alone the fulness of His power and
of His love can be experienced. We say the fulness of His power and of His love; for he may
not have ceased to love his LORD. In the passage before us the bride still loves Him truly,
though not wholly; there is still a power in His Word which is not unfelt, though she no longer
renders instant obedience. She little realizes how she is wronging her LORD, and how real is
the wall of separation between them. And what concord hath CHRIST with Belial? or what portion
hath a believer with an unbeliever? . . .

We have to take our choice: we cannot enjoy both the world and CHRIST.

The bride had not learned this: she would fain enjoy both, with no thought of their incompatibility.
She observes with joy the approach of the Bridegroom.

          The voice of my Beloved: Behold He cometh
          Leaping upon the mountains, bounding over the hills.
          My Beloved is like a gazelle or a young hart;
          Behold He standeth behind our wall,
          He looketh in at the windows,
          He glanceth through the lattice.

The heart of the bride leaps on hearing the voice of her Beloved, as He comes in search of
her. He has crossed the hills; He draws near to her; He stands behind the wall; He even looks
in at the windows; with tender and touching words He woos her to come forth to Him. He utters
no reproach, and His loving entreaties sink deep in her memory.

          My Beloved spake, and said unto me,
          Rise up, My love, My fair one, and come away.

All nature is responsive to the return of the summer, wilt thou, My bride, be irresponsive
to My love?

          Arise, My love, My fair one, and come away.

Can such pleading be in vain? Alas, it can, it was!

Wonderful thought! that God should desire fellowship with us; and that He whose love once made
Him the Man of Sorrows may now be made the Man of Joys by the loving devotion of human hearts.

