PART V:  Of the Power of the Understanding, or of Human Freedom

PREFACE At length I pass to the remaining portion of my Ethics, which is concerned with the
way leading to freedom. I shall therefore treat therein of the power of the reason, showing
how far the reason can control the emotions, and what is the nature of Mental Freedom or Blessedness;
we shall then be able to see, how much more powerful the wise man is than the ignorant. It
is no part of my design to point out the method and means whereby the understanding may be
perfected, nor to show the skill whereby the body may be so tended, as to be capable of the
due performance of its functions. The latter question lies in the province of Medicine, the
former in the province of Logic. Here, therefore, I repeat, I shall treat only of the power
of the mind, or of reason; and I shall mainly show the extent and nature of its dominion over
the emotions, for their control and moderation. That we do not possess absolute dominion over
them, I have already shown. Yet the Stoics have thought, that the emotions depended absolutely
on our will, and that we could absolutely govern them. But these philosophers were compelled,
by the protest of experience, not from their own principles, to confess, that no slight practice
and zeal is needed to control and moderate them: and this someone endeavoured to illustrate
by the example (if I remember rightly) of two dogs, the one a house-dog and the other a hunting-dog.
For by long training it could be brought about, that the house-dog should become accustomed
to hunt, and the hunting-dog to cease from running after hares. To this opinion Descartes not
a little inclines. For he maintained, that the soul or mind is specially united to a particular
part of the brain, namely, to that part called the pineal gland, by the aid of which the mind
is enabled to feel all the movements which are set going in the body, and also external objects,
and which the mind by a simple act of volition can put in motion in various ways. He asserted,
that this gland is so suspended in the midst of the brain, that it could be moved by the slightest
motion of the animal spirits: further, that this gland is suspended in the midst of the brain
in as many different manners, as the animal spirits can impinge thereon; and, again, that as
many different marks are impressed on the said gland, as there are different external objects
which impel the animal spirits towards it; whence it follows, that if the will of the soul
suspends the gland in a position, wherein it has already been suspended once before by the
animal spirits driven in one way or another, the gland in its turn reacts on the said spirits,
driving and determining them to the condition wherein they were, when repulsed before by a
similar position of the gland. He further asserted, that every act of mental volition is united
in nature to a certain given motion of the gland. Lastly, he maintained that, although every
motion of the aforesaid gland seems to have been united by nature to one particular thought
out of the whole number of our thoughts from the very beginning of our life, yet it can nevertheless
become through habituation associated with other thoughts; this he endeavours to prove in the
Passions de l'ame, I. 50. He thence concludes, that there is no soul so weak, that it cannot,
under proper direction, acquire absolute power over its passions. For passions as defined by
him are "perceptions, or feelings, or disturbances of the soul, which are referred to the soul
as species, and which (mark the expression) are produced, preserved, and strengthened through
some movement of the spirits." (Passion del l'ame,I.27.) But, seeing that we can join any motion
of the gland, or consequently of the spirits, to any volition, the determination of the will
depends entirely on our own powers; if, therefore, we determine our will with sure and firm
decisions in the direction to which we wish our actions to tend, and associate the motions
of the passions which we wish to acquire with the said decisions, we shall acquire an absolute
dominion over our passions. Such is the doctrine of this illustrious philosopher (in so far
as I gather it from his own words); it is one which, had it been less ingenious, I could hardly
believe to have proceeded from so great a man. Indeed, I am lost in wonder, that a philosopher,
who had stoutly asserted, that he would draw no conclusions which do not follow from self-evident
premisses, and would affirm nothing which he did not clearly and distinctly perceive, and who
had so often taken to task the scholastics for wishing to explain obscurities through occult
qualities, could maintain a hypothesis, beside which occult qualities are commonplace. Truly
I should like him to explain this union through its proximate cause. What clear and distinct
conception has he got of thought in most intimate union with a certain particle of extended
matter? But he had so distinct a conception of mind being distinct from body, that he could
not assign any particular cause of the union between the two, or of the mind itself, but was
obliged to have recourse to the cause of the whole universe, that is to God. Further, I should
much like to know, what degree of motion the mind can impart to this pineal gland, and with
what force can it hold it suspended? For I am in ignorance, whether this gland can be agitated
more slowly or more quickly by the mind than by the animal spirits, and whether the motions
of the passions, which we have closely united with firm decisions, cannot be again disjoined
therefrom by physical causes; in which case it would follow that, although the mind firmly
intended to face a given danger, and had united to this decision the motions of boldness, yet
at the sight of the danger the gland might become suspended in a way, which would preclude
the mind thinking of anything except running away. In truth, as there is no common standard
of volition and motion, so is there no comparison possible between the powers of the mind and
the power or strength of the body; consequently the strength of one cannot in any wise be determined
by the strength of the other. We may also add, that there is no gland discoverable in the midst
of the brain, so placed that it can thus easily be set in motion in so many ways, and also
that all the nerves are not prolonged so far as the cavities of the brain. Lastly, I omit all
the assertions which he makes concerning the will and its freedom, inasmuch as I have abundantly
proved that his premisses are false. Therefore, since the power of the mind, as I have shown
above, is defined by the understanding only, we shall determine solely by the knowledge of
the mind the remedies against the emotions, which I believe all have had experience of, but
do not accurately observe or distinctly see, and from the same basis we shall deduce all those
conclusions, which have regard to the mind's blessedness.

AXIOMS. I. If two contrary actions be started in the same subject, a change must necessarily
take place, either in both, or in one of the two, and continue until they cease to be contrary.

II. The power of an effect is defined by the power of its cause, in so far as its essence is
explained or defined by the essence of its cause. (This axiom is evident from III.vii.)

PROPOSITIONS.

Prop.I. Even as thoughts and the ideas of things are arranged and associated in the mind, so
are the modifications of body or the images of things precisely in the same way arranged and
associated in the body. Wherefore, even as the order and connection of ideas in the mind takes
place according to the order and association of modifications of the body (II:xviii.), so vice
versa (III:ii.) the order and connection of modifications of the body takes place in accordance
with the manner, in which thoughts and the ideas of things are arranged and associated in the
mind. Q.E.D.

PROP.II. If we remove a disturbance of the spirit, or emotion, from the thought of an external
cause, and unite it to other thoughts, then will the love or hatred towards that external cause,
and also the vacillations of spirit which arise from these emotions, be destroyed.

Proof.- That, which constitutes the reality of love or hatred, is pleasure or pain, accompanied
by the idea of an external cause (Def. of the Emotions:vi.,&vii.); wherefore, when this cause
is removed, the reality of love or hatred is removed with it; therefore these emotions and
those which arise therefrom are destroyed. Q.E.D.

Prop.III.

Proof.- An emotion, which is a passion, is a confused idea (by the general Def. of the Emotions).
If, therefore, we form a clear and distinct idea of a given emotion, that idea will only be
distinguished from the emotion, in so far as it is referred to the mind only, by reason (II:xxi.,&Note);
therefore (III:iii.), the emotion will cease to be a passion. Q.E.D.

Corollary.- An emotion therefore becomes more under our control, and the mind is less passive
in respect to it, in proportion as it is more known to us.

Prop.IV. There is no modification of the body, whereof we cannot form some clear and distinct
conception.

Proof.- Properties which are common to all things can only be conceived adequately (II:xxxviii.);
therefore (II:xii.and Lemma. ii. after II:xiii.) there is no modification of the body, whereof
we cannot form some clear and distinct conception.

Note.- Seeing that there is nothing which is not followed  by an effect (I:xxxvi.), and that
we clearly and distinctly understand whatever follows from an idea, which in us is adequate
(II:xl.), it follows that everyone has the power of clearly and distinctly understanding himself
and his emotions, if not absolutely, at any rate in part, and consequently of bringing it about,
that he should become less subject to them. To attain this result, therefore, we must chiefly
direct our efforts to acquiring, as far as possible, a clear and distinct knowledge of every
emotion, in order that the mind may thus, through emotion, be determined to think of those
things which it clearly and distinctly perceives, and wherein it fully acquiesces: and thus
that the emotion itself may be separated from the thought of an external cause, and may be
associated with true thoughts; whence it will come to pass, not only that love, hatred, &c.
will be destroyed (V:ii.), but also that the appetites or desires, which are wont to arise
from such emotion, will become incapable of being excessive (IV:lxi.). For it must be especially
remarked, that the appetite through which a man is said to be active, and that through which
he is said to be passive is one and the same. For instance, we have shown that human nature
is so constituted, that everyone desires his fellow-men to live after his own fashion (III:xxxi.Note);
in a man, who is not guided by reason, this appetite is a passion which is called ambition,
and does not greatly differ from pride; whereas in a man, who lives by the dictates of reason,
it is an activity or virtue which is called piety (IV:xxxvii.Note.i. and second proof). Than
this remedy for the emotions (to return to the point from which I started), which consists
in a true knowledge thereof, nothing more excellent, being within our power, can be devised.
For the mind has no other power save that of thinking and of forming, adequate ideas, as we
have shown above (III:iii.).

Prop.V. An emotion towards a thing, which we conceive simply, and not as necessary, or as contingent,
or as possible, is, other conditions being equal, greater than any other emotion.

