Cinq-Mars felt the force of the worthy servitor's epigrammatic scolding, and feared that he
had followed him beyond the wood of Chaumont; but he would not ask, lest he should have to
give explanations or to tell a falsehood or to command silence, which would at once have been
taking him into confidence on the subject.  As the only alternative, he spurred his horse and
rode ahead of his old domestic; but the latter had not yet had his say, and instead of keeping
behind his master, he rode up to his left and continued the conversation.

"Do you suppose, Monsieur, that I should allow you to go where you please?  No, Monsieur, I
am too deeply impressed with the respect I owe to Madame la Marquise, to give her an opportunity
of saying to me: 'Grandchamp, my son has been killed with a shot or with a sword; why were
you not before him?'  Or, 'He has received a stab from the stiletto of an Italian, because
he went at night beneath the window of a great princess; why did you not seize the assassin?'
This would be very disagreeable to me, Monsieur, for I never have been reproached with anything
of the kind. Once Monsieur le Marechal lent me to his nephew, Monsieur le Comte, to make a
campaign in the Netherlands, because I know Spanish.  I fulfilled the duty with honor, as I
always do.  When Monsieur le Comte received a bullet in his heart, I myself brought back his
horses, his mules, his tent, and all his equipment, without so much as a pocket-handkerchief
being missed; and I can assure you that the horses were as well dressed and harnessed when
we reentered Chaumont as if Monsieur le Comte had been about to go a-hunting.  And, accordingly,
I received nothing but compliments and agreeable things from the whole family, just in the
way I like."

"Well, well, my friend," said Henri d'Effiat, "I may some day, perhaps, have these horses to
take back; but in the mean time take this great purse of gold, which I have well-nigh lost
two or three times, and thou shalt pay for me everywhere.  The money wearies me."

"Monsieur le Marechal did not so, Monsieur.  He had been superintendent of finances, and he
counted every farthing he paid out of his own hand. I do not think your estates would have
been in such good condition, or that you would have had so much money to count yourself, had
he done otherwise; have the goodness, therefore, to keep your purse, whose contents, I dare
swear, you do not know."

"Faith, not I."

Grandchamp sent forth a profound sigh at his master's disdainful exclamation.

"Ah, Monsieur le Marquis!  Monsieur le Marquis!  When I think that the great King Henri, before
my eyes, put his chamois gloves into his pocket to keep the rain from spoiling them; when I
think that Monsieur de Rosni refused him money when he had spent too much; when I think--"

"When thou dost think, thou art egregiously tedious, my old friend," interrupted his master;
"and thou wilt do better in telling me what that black figure is that I think I see walking
in the mire behind us."

"It looks like some poor peasant woman who, perhaps, wants alms of us. She can easily follow
us, for we do not go at much of a pace in this sand, wherein our horses sink up to the hams.
We shall go to the Landes perhaps some day, Monsieur, and you will see a country all the same
as this sandy road, and great, black firs all the way along.  It looks like a churchyard; this
is an exact specimen of it.  Look, the rain has ceased, and we can see a little ahead; there
is nothing but furze-bushes on this great plain, without a village or a house.  I don't know
where we can pass the night; but if you will take my advice, you will let us cut some boughs
and bivouac where we are.  You shall see how, with a little earth, I can make a hut as warm
as a bed."

"I would rather go on to the light I see in the horizon," said Cinq-Mars; "for I fancy I feel
rather feverish, and I am thirsty.  But fall back, I would ride alone; rejoin the others and
follow."

Grandchamp obeyed; he consoled himself by giving Germain, Louis, and Etienne lessons in the
art of reconnoitring a country by night.

Meanwhile, his young master was overcome with fatigue.  The violent emotions of the day had
profoundly affected his mind; and the long journey on horseback, the last two days passed almost
without nourishment, owing to the hurried pressure of events, the heat of the sun by day, the
icy coldness of the night, all contributed to increase his indisposition and to weary his delicate
frame.  For three hours he rode in silence before his people, yet the light he had seen in
the horizon seemed no nearer; at last he ceased to follow it with his eyes, and his head, feeling
heavier and heavier, sank upon his breast.  He gave the reins to his tired horse, which of
its own accord followed the high-road, and, crossing his arms, allowed himself to be rocked
by the monotonous motion of his fellow-traveller, which frequently stumbled against the large
stones that strewed the road.  The rain had ceased, as had the voices of his domestics, whose
horses followed in the track of their master's.  The young man abandoned himself to the bitterness
of his thoughts; he asked himself whether the bright object of his hopes would not flee from
him day by day, as that phosphoric light fled from him in the horizon, step by step.  Was it
probable that the young Princess, almost forcibly recalled to the gallant court of Anne of
Austria, would always refuse the hands, perhaps royal ones, that would be offered to her? 
What chance that she would resign herself to renounce a present throne, in order to wait till
some caprice of fortune should realize romantic hopes, or take a youth almost in the lowest
rank of the army and lift him to the elevation she spoke of, till the age of love should be
passed?  How could he be certain that even the vows of Marie de Gonzaga were sincere?

"Alas!"  he said, "perhaps she has blinded herself as to her own sentiments; the solitude of
the country had prepared her soul to receive deep impressions.  I came; she thought I was he
of whom she had dreamed. Our age and my love did the rest.  But when at court, she, the companion
of the Queen, has learned to contemplate from an exalted position the greatness to which I
aspire, and which I as yet see only from a very humble distance; when she shall suddenly find
herself in actual possession of the future she aims at, and measures with a more correct eye
the long road I have to travel; when she shall hear around her vows like mine, pronounced by
lips which could undo me with a word, with a word destroy him whom she awaits as her husband,
her lord--oh, madman that I have been!--she will see all her folly, and will be incensed at mine."

Thus did doubt, the greatest misery of love, begin to torture his unhappy heart; he felt his
hot blood rush to his head and oppress it.  Ever and anon he fell forward upon the neck of
his horse, and a half sleep weighed down his eyes; the dark firs that bordered the road seemed
to him gigantic corpses travelling beside him.  He saw, or thought he saw, the same woman clothed
in black, whom he had pointed out to Grandchamp, approach so near as to touch his horse's mane,
pull his cloak, and then run off with a jeering laugh; the sand of the road seemed to him a
river running beneath him, with opposing current, back toward its source.  This strange sight
dazzled his worn eyes; he closed them and fell asleep on his horse.

Presently, he felt himself stopped, but he was numbed with cold and could not move.  He saw
peasants, lights, a house, a great room into which they carried him, a wide bed, whose heavy
curtains were closed by Grandchamp; and he fell asleep again, stunned by the fever that whirred
in his ears.

Dreams that followed one another more rapidly than grains of sand before the wind rushed through
his brain; he could not catch them, and moved restlessly on his bed.  Urbain Grandier on the
rack, his mother in tears, his tutor armed, Bassompierre loaded with chains, passed before
him, making signs of farewell; at last, as he slept, he instinctively put his hand to his head
to stay the passing dream, which then seemed to unfold itself before his eyes like pictures
in shifting sands.

He saw a public square crowded with a foreign people, a northern people, who uttered cries
of joy, but they were savage cries; there was a line of guards, ferocious soldiers--these were
Frenchmen.  "Come with me," said the soft voice of Marie de Gonzaga, who took his hand.  "See,
I wear a diadem; here is thy throne, come with me."  And she hurried him on, the people still
shouting.  He went on, a long way.  "Why are you sad, if you are a queen?"  he said, trembling.
But she was pale, and smiled and spoke not.  She ascended, step after step, up to a throne,
and seated herself.  "Mount!"  said she, forcibly pulling his hand.  But, at every movement,
the massive stairs crumbled beneath his feet, so that he could not ascend.  "Give thanks to
love," she continued; and her hand, now more powerful, raised him to the throne.  The people
still shouted.  He bowed low to kiss that helping hand, that adored hand; it was the hand of
the executioner!

"Oh, heavens!"  exclaimed Cinq-Mars, as, heaving a deep sigh, he opened his eyes.  A flickering
lamp lighted the ruinous chamber of the inn; he again closed his eyes, for he had seen, seated
on his bed, a woman, a nun, young and beautiful!  He thought he was still dreaming, but she
grasped his hand firmly.  He opened his burning eyes, and fixed them upon her.

"Is it you, Jeannede Belfiel?  The rain has drenched your veil and your black hair!  Why are
you here, unhappy woman?"

"Hark!  awake not my Urbain; he sleeps there in the next room.  Ay, my hair is indeed wet,
and my feet--see, my feet that were once so white, see how the mud has soiled them.  But I
have made a vow--I will not wash them till I have seen the King, and until he has granted me
Urbain's pardon.  I am going to the army to find him; I will speak to him as Grandier taught
me to speak, and he will pardon him.  And listen, I will also ask thy pardon, for I read it
in thy face that thou, too, art condemned to death.  Poor youth!  thou art too young to die,
thy curling hair is beautiful; but yet thou art condemned, for thou hast on thy brow a line
that never deceives.  The man thou hast struck will kill thee. Thou hast made too much use
of the cross; it is that which will bring evil upon thee.  Thou hast struck with it, and thou
wearest it round thy neck by a hair chain.  Nay, hide not thy face; have I said aught to afflict
thee, or is it that thou lovest, young man?  Ah, reassure thyself, I will not tell all this
to thy love.  I am mad, but I am gentle, very gentle; and three days ago I was beautiful. 
Is she also beautiful?  Ah!  she will weep some day!  Yet, if she can weep, she will be happy!"

And then suddenly Jeanne began to recite the service for the dead in a monotonous voice, but
with incredible rapidity, still seated on the bed, and turning the beads of a long rosary.

Suddenly the door opened; she looked up, and fled through another door in the partition.

"What the devil's that-an imp or an angel, saying the funeral service over you, and you under
the clothes, as if you were in a shroud?"

This abrupt exclamation came from the rough voice of Grandchamp, who was so astonished at what
he had seen that he dropped the glass of lemonade he was bringing in.  Finding that his master
did not answer, he became still more alarmed, and raised the bedclothes.  Cinq-Mars's face
was crimson, and he seemed asleep, but his old domestic saw that the blood rushing to his head
had almost suffocated him; and, seizing a jug full of cold water, he dashed the whole of it
in his face.  This military remedy rarely fails to effect its purpose, and Cinq-Mars returned
to himself with a start.

"Ah! it is thou, Grandchamp; what frightful dreams I have had!"

"Peste!  Monsieur le Marquis, your dreams, on the contrary, are very pretty ones.  I saw the
tail of the last as I came in; your choice is not bad."

"What dost mean, blockhead?"

"Nay, not a blockhead, Monsieur; I have good eyes, and I have seen what I have seen.  But,
really ill as you are, Monsieur le Marechal would never--"

"Thou art utterly doting, my friend; give me some drink, I am parched with thirst.  Oh, heavens!
what a night!  I still see all those women."

"All those women, Monsieur?  Why, how many are here?"

"I am speaking to thee of a dream, blockhead.  Why standest there like a post, instead of giving
me some drink?"

"Enough, Monsieur; I will get more lemonade."  And going to the door, he called over the staircase,
"Germain!  Etienne!  Louis!"

The innkeeper answered from below: "Coming, Monsieur, coming; they have been helping me to
catch the madwoman."

"What mad-woman?"  said Cinq-Mars, rising in bed.

The host entered, and, taking off his cotton cap, said, respectfully: "Oh, nothing, Monsieur
le Marquis, only a madwoman that came here last night on foot, and whom we put in the next
room; but she has escaped, and we have not been able to catch her."

"Ah!"  exclaimed Cinq-Mars, returning to himself and putting his hand to his eyes, "it was
not a dream, then.  And my mother, where is she?  and the Marechal, and--Ah!  and yet it is
but a fearful dream!  Leave me."

As he said this, he turned toward the wall, and again pulled the clothes over his head.

The innkeeper, in amazement, touched his forehead three times with his finger, looking at Grandchamp
as if to ask him whether his master were also mad.

Grandchamp motioned him away in silence, and in order to watch the rest of the night by the
side of Cinq-Mars, who was in a deep sleep, he seated himself in a large armchair, covered
with tapestry, and began to squeeze lemons into a glass of water with an air as grave and severe
as Archimedes calculating the condensing power of his mirrors.

CHAPTER VII

THE CABINET

     Men have rarely the courage to be wholly good or wholly bad.
                                                  MACHIAVELLI.

Let us leave our young traveller sleeping; he will soon pursue a long and beautiful route.
Since we are at liberty to turn to all points of the map, we will fix our eyes upon the city
of Narbonne.

Behold the Mediterranean, not far distant, washing with its blue waters the sandy shores. 
Penetrate into that city resembling Athens; and to find him who reigns there, follow that dark
and irregular street, mount the steps of the old archiepiscopal palace, and enter the first
and largest of its apartments.

This was a very long salon, lighted by a series of high lancet windows, of which the upper
part only retained the blue, yellow, and red panes that shed a mysterious light through the
apartment.  A large round table occupied its entire breadth, near the great fireplace; around
this table, covered with a colored cloth and scattered with papers and portfolios, were seated,
bending over their pens, eight secretaries copying letters which were handed to them from a
smaller table.  Other men quietly arranged the completed papers in the shelves of a bookcase,
partly filled with books bound in black.

Notwithstanding the number of persons assembled in the room, one might have heard the movements
of the wings of a fly.  The only interruption to the silence was the sound of pens rapidly
gliding over paper, and a shrill voice dictating, stopping every now and then to cough.  This
voice proceeded from a great armchair placed beside the fire, which was blazing, notwithstanding
the heat of the season and of the country. It was one of those armchairs that you still see
in old castles, and which seem made to read one's self to sleep in, so easy is every part of
it.  The sitter sinks into a circular cushion of down; if the head leans back, the cheeks rest
upon pillows covered with silk, and the seat juts out so far beyond the elbows that one may
believe the provident upholsterers of our forefathers sought to provide that the book should
make no noise in falling so as to awaken the sleeper.

But we will quit this digression, and speak of the man who occupied the chair, and who was
very far from sleeping.  He had a broad forehead, bordered with thin white hair, large, mild
eyes, a wan face, to which a small, pointed, white beard gave that air of subtlety and finesse
noticeable in all the portraits of the period of Louis XIII.  His mouth was almost without
lips, which Lavater deems an indubitable sign of an evil mind, and it was framed in a pair
of slight gray moustaches and a 'royale'--an ornament then in fashion, which somewhat resembled
a comma in form.  The old man wore a close red cap, a large 'robe-dechambre', and purple silk
stockings; he was no less a personage than Armand Duplessis, Cardinal de Richelieu.

Near him, around the small table, sat four youths from fifteen to twenty years of age; these
were pages, or domestics, according to the term then in use, which signified familiars, friends
of the house.  This custom was a relic of feudal patronage, which still existed in our manners.
The younger members of high families received wages from the great lords, and were devoted
to their service in all things, challenging the first comer at the wish of their patron.  The
pages wrote letters from the outline previously given them by the Cardinal, and after their
master had glanced at them, passed them to the secretaries, who made fair copies. The Duke,
for his part, wrote on his knee private notes upon small slips of paper, inserting them in
almost all the packets before sealing them, which he did with his own hand.

He had been writing a short time, when, in a mirror before him, he saw the youngest of his
pages writing something on a sheet of paper much smaller than the official sheet.  He hastily
wrote a few words, and then slipped the paper under the large sheet which, much against his
inclination, he had to fill; but, seated behind the Cardinal, he hoped that the difficulty
with which the latter turned would prevent him from seeing the little manoeuvre he had tried
to exercise with much dexterity. Suddenly Richelieu said to him, dryly, "Come here, Monsieur
Olivier."

These words came like a thunder-clap on the poor boy, who seemed about sixteen.  He rose at
once, however, and stood before the minister, his arms hanging at his side and his head lowered.

The other pages and the secretaries stirred no more than soldiers when a comrade is struck
down by a ball, so accustomed were they to this kind of summons.  The present one, however,
was more energetic than usual.

"What were you writing?"

"My lord, what your Eminence dictated."

"What!"

"My lord, the letter to Don Juan de Braganza."

"No evasions, Monsieur; you were writing something else."

"My lord," said the page, with tears in his eyes, "it was a letter to one of my cousins."

"Let me see it."

The page trembled in every limb and was obliged to lean against the chimney-piece, as he said,
in a hardly audible tone, "It is impossible."

"Monsieur le Vicomte Olivier d'Entraigues," said the minister, without showing the least emotion,
"you are no longer in my service."  The page withdrew.  He knew that there was no reply; so,
slipping his letter into his pocket, and opening the folding-doors just wide enough to allow
his exit, he glided out like a bird escaped from the cage.

The minister went on writing the note upon his knee.

The secretaries redoubled their silent zeal, when suddenly the two wings of the door were thrown
back and showed, standing in the opening, a Capuchin, who, bowing, with his arms crossed over
his breast, seemed waiting for alms or for an order to retire.  He had a dark complexion, and
was deeply pitted with smallpox; his eyes, mild, but somewhat squinting, were almost hidden
by his thick eyebrows, which met in the middle of his forehead; on his mouth played a crafty,
mischievous, and sinister smile; his beard was straight and red, and his costume was that of
the order of St. Francis in all its repulsiveness, with sandals on his bare feet, that looked
altogether unfit to tread upon carpet.

Such as he was, however, this personage appeared to create a great sensation throughout the
room; for, without finishing the phrase, the line, or even the word begun, every person rose
and went out by the door where he was still standing--some saluting him as they passed, others
turning away their heads, and the young pages holding their fingers to their noses, but not
till they were behind him, for they seemed to have a secret fear of him.  When they had all
passed out, he entered, making a profound reverence, because the door was still open; but,
as soon as it was shut, unceremoniously advancing, he seated himself near the Cardinal, who,
having recognized him by the general movement he created, saluted him with a dry and silent
inclination of the head, regarding him fixedly, as if awaiting some news and unable to avoid
knitting his brows, as at the aspect of a spider or some other disagreeable creature.

The Cardinal could not resist this movement of displeasure, because he felt himself obliged,
by the presence of his agent, to resume those profound and painful conversations from which
he had for some days been free, in a country whose pure air, favorable to him, had somewhat
soothed the pain of his malady; that malady had changed to a slow fever, but its intervals
were long enough to enable him to forget during its absence that it must return.  Giving, therefore,
a little rest to his hitherto indefatigable mind, he had been awaiting, for the first time
in his life perhaps, without impatience, the return of the couriers he had sent in all directions,
like the rays of a sun which alone gave life and movement to France.  He had not expected the
visit he now received, and the sight of one of those men, whom, to use his own expression,
he "steeped in crime," rendered all the habitual disquietudes of his life more present to him,
without entirely dissipating the cloud of melancholy which at that time obscured his thoughts.

The beginning of his conversation was tinged with the gloomy hue of his late reveries; but
he soon became more animated and vigorous than ever, when his powerful mind had reentered the
real world.

His confidant, seeing that he was expected to break the silence, did so in this abrupt fashion:

"Well, my lord, of what are you thinking?"

"Alas, Joseph, of what should we all think, but of our future happiness in a better life? 
For many days I have been reflecting that human interests have too much diverted me from this
great thought; and I repent me of having spent some moments of my leisure in profane works,
such as my tragedies, 'Europe' and 'Mirame,' despite the glory they have already gained me
among our brightest minds--a glory which will extend unto futurity."

Father Joseph, full of what he had to say, was at first surprised at this opening; but he knew
his master too well to betray his feelings, and, well skilled in changing the course of his
ideas, replied:

"Yes, their merit is very great, and France will regret that these immortal works are not followed
by similar productions."

"Yes, my dear Joseph; but it is in vain that such men as Boisrobert, Claveret, Colletet, Corneille,
and, above all, the celebrated Mairet, have proclaimed these tragedies the finest that the
present or any past age has produced.  I reproach myself for them, I swear to you, as for a
mortal sin, and I now, in my hours of repose, occupy myself only with my 'Methode des Controverses',
and my book on the 'Perfection du Chretien.' I remember that I am fifty-six years old, and
that I have an incurable malady."

"These are calculations which your enemies make as precisely as your Eminence," said the priest,
who began to be annoyed with this conversation, and was eager to talk of other matters.

The blood mounted to the Cardinal's face.

"I know it!  I know it well!" he said; "I know all their black villainy, and I am prepared
for it.  But what news is there?"

"According to our arrangement, my lord, we have removed Mademoiselle d'Hautefort, as we removed
Mademoiselle de la Fayette before her.  So far it is well; but her place is not filled, and
the King--"

"Well!"

"The King has ideas which he never had before."

"Ha!  and which come not from me?  'Tis well, truly," said the minister, with an ironic sneer.

"What, my lord, leave the place of the favorite vacant for six whole days?  It is not prudent;
pardon me for saying so."

"He has ideas--ideas!"  repeated Richelieu, with a kind of terror; "and what are they?"

"He talks of recalling the Queen-mother," said the Capuchin, in a low voice; "of recalling
her from Cologne."

"Marie de Medicis!"  cried the Cardinal, striking the arms of his chair with his hands.  "No,
by Heaven, she shall not again set her foot upon the soil of France, whence I drove her, step
by step!  England has not dared to receive her, exiled by me; Holland fears to be crushed by
her; and my kingdom to receive her!  No, no, such an idea could not have originated with himself!
To recall my enemy!  to recall his mother! What perfidy!  He would not have dared to think of it."

Then, having mused for a moment, he added, fixing a penetrating look still full of burning
anger upon Father Joseph:

"But in what terms did he express this desire?  Tell me his precise words."

"He said publicly; and in the presence of Monsieur: 'I feel that one of the first duties of
a Christian is to be a good son, and I will resist no longer the murmurs of my conscience.'"

"Christian!  conscience!  these are not his expressions.  It is Father Caussin--it is his confessor
who is betraying me," cried the Cardinal. "Perfidious Jesuit!  I pardoned thee thy intrigue
with La Fayette; but I will not pass over thy secret counsels.  I will have this confessor
dismissed, Joseph; he is an enemy to the State, I see it clearly. But I myself have acted with
negligence for some days past; I have not sufficiently hastened the arrival of the young d'Effiat,
who will doubtless succeed.  He is handsome and intellectual, they say.  What a blunder!  I
myself merit disgrace.  To leave that fox of a Jesuit with the King, without having given him
my secret instructions, without a hostage, a pledge, or his fidelity to my orders!  What neglect!
Joseph, take a pen, and write what I shall dictate for the other confessor, whom we will choose
better.  I think of Father Sirmond."

Father Joseph sat down at the large table, ready to write, and the Cardinal dictated to him
those duties, of a new kind, which shortly afterward he dared to have given to the King, who
received them, respected them, and learned them by heart as the commandments of the Church.
They have come down to us, a terrible monument of the empire that a man may seize upon by means
of circumstances, intrigues, and audacity:

