While such the entrance of Marmaduke Nevile into a court, that if far less intellectual and
refined than those of later days, was yet more calculated to dazzle the fancy, to sharpen the
wit, and to charm the senses,--for round the throne of Edward IV. chivalry was magnificent,
intrigue restless, and pleasure ever on the wing,--Sibyll had ample leisure in her solitary
home to muse over the incidents that had preceded the departure of the young guest. Though
she had rejected Marmaduke's proffered love, his tone, so suddenly altered, his abrupt, broken
words and confusion, his farewell, so soon succeeding his passionate declaration, could not
fail to wound that pride of woman which never sleeps till modesty is gone.  But this made the
least cause of the profound humiliation which bowed down her spirit.  The meaning taunt conveyed
in the rhyme of the tymbesteres pierced her to the quick; the calm, indifferent smile of the
stranger, as he regarded her, the beauty of the dame he attended, woke mingled and contrary
feelings, but those of jealousy were perhaps the keenest: and in the midst of all she started
to ask herself if indeed she had suffered her vain thoughts to dwell too tenderly upon one
from whom the vast inequalities of human life must divide her evermore.  What to her was his
indifference?  Nothing,--yet had she given worlds to banish that careless smile from her remembrance.

Shrinking at last from the tyranny of thoughts till of late unknown, her eye rested upon the
gipsire which Alwyn had sent her by the old servant.  The sight restored to her the holy recollection
of her father, the sweet joy of having ministered to his wants.  She put up the little treasure,
intending to devote it all to Warner; and after bathing her heavy eyes, that no sorrow of hers
might afflict the student, she passed with a listless step into her father's chamber.

There is, to the quick and mercurial spirits of the young, something of marvellous and preternatural
in that life within life, which the strong passion of science and genius forms and feeds,--that
passion so much stronger than love, and so much more self-dependent; which asks no sympathy,
leans on no kindred heart; which lives alone in its works and fancies, like a god amidst his
creations.

The philosopher, too, had experienced a great affliction since they met last. In the pride
of his heart he had designed to show Marmaduke the mystic operations of his model, which had
seemed that morning to open into life; and when the young man was gone, and he made the experiment
alone, alas! he found that new progress but involved him in new difficulties.  He had gained
the first steps in the gigantic creation of modern days, and he was met by the obstacle that
baffled so long the great modern sage.  There was the cylinder, there the boiler; yet, work
as he would, the steam failed to keep the cylinder at work.  And now, patiently as the spider
re-weaves the broken web, his untiring ardour was bent upon constructing a new cylinder of
other materials.  "Strange," he said to himself, "that the heat of the mover aids not the movement;"
and so, blundering near the truth, he laboured on.

Sibyll, meanwhile, seated herself abstractedly on a heap of fagots piled in the corner, and
seemed busy in framing characters on the dusty floor with the point of her tiny slipper.  So
fresh and fair and young she seemed, in that murky atmosphere, that strange scene, and beside
that worn man, that it might have seemed to a poet as if the youngest of the Graces were come
to visit Mulciber at his forge.

The man pursued his work, the girl renewed her dreams, the dark evening hour gradually stealing
over both.  The silence was unbroken, for the forge and the model were now at rest, save by
the grating of Adam's file upon the metal, or by some ejaculation of complacency now and then
vented by the enthusiast. So, apart from the many-noised, gaudy, babbling world without, even
in the midst of that bloody, turbulent, and semi-barbarous time, went on (the one neglected
and unknown, the other loathed and hated) the two movers of the ALL that continues the airy
life of the Beautiful from age to age,--the Woman's dreaming Fancy and the Man's active Genius.

For two or three days nothing disturbed the outward monotony of the recluse's household.  Apparently
all had settled back as before the advent of the young cavalier.  But Sibyll's voice was not
heard singing, as of old, when she passed the stairs to her father's room. She sat with him
in his work no less frequently and regularly than before; but her childish spirits no longer
broke forth in idle talk or petulant movements, vexing the good man from his absorption and
his toils.  The little cares and anxieties, which had formerly made up so much of Sibyll's
day by forethought of provision for the morrow, were suspended; for the money transmitted to
her by Alwyn in return for the emblazoned manuscripts was sufficient to supply their modest
wants for months to come.  Adam, more and more engrossed in his labours, did not appear to
perceive the daintier plenty of his board, nor the purchase of some small comforts unknown
for years.  He only said one morning, "It is strange, girl, that as that gathers in life (and
he pointed to the model), it seems already to provide, to my fantasy, the luxuries it will
one day give to us all in truth.  Methought my very bed last night seemed wondrous easy, and
the coverings were warmer, for I woke not with the cold."

"Ah," thought the sweet daughter, smiling through moist eyes, "while my cares can smooth thy
barren path through life, why should I cark and pine?"

Their solitude was now occasionally broken in the evenings by the visits of Nicholas Alwyn.
The young goldsmith was himself not ignorant of the simpler mathematics; he had some talent
for invention, and took pleasure in the construction of horologes, though, properly speaking,
not a part of his trade.  His excuse for his visits was the wish to profit by Warner's mechanical
knowledge; but the student was so rapt in his own pursuits, that he gave but little instruction
to his visitor.  Nevertheless Alwyn was satisfied, for he saw Sibyll.  He saw her in the most
attractive phase of her character,--the loving, patient, devoted daughter; and the view of
her household virtues affected more and more his honest English heart.  But, ever awkward and
embarrassed, he gave no vent to his feelings.  To Sibyll he spoke little, and with formal constraint;
and the girl, unconscious of her conquest, was little less indifferent to his visits than her
abstracted father.

But all at once Adam woke to a sense of the change that had taken place; all at once he caught
scent of gold, for his works were brought to a pause for want of some finer and more costly
materials than the coins in his own possession (the remnant of Marmaduke's gift) enabled him
to purchase.  He had stolen out at dusk, unknown to Sibyll, and lavished the whole upon the
model; but in vain!  The model in itself was, indeed, completed; his invention had mastered
the difficulty that it had encountered.  But Adam had complicated the contrivance by adding
to it experimental proofs of the agency it was intended to exercise.  It was necessary in that
age, if he were to convince others, to show more than the principle of his engine,--he must
show also something of its effects; turn a mill without wind or water, or set in motion some
mimic vehicle without other force than that the contrivance itself supplied.  And here, at
every step, new obstacles arose.  It was the misfortune to science in those days, not only
that all books and mathematical instruments were enormously dear, but that the students, still
struggling into light, through the glorious delusions of alchemy and mysticism, imagined that,
even in simple practical operations, there were peculiar virtues in virgin gold and certain
precious stones.  A link in the process upon which Adam was engaged failed him; his ingenuity
was baffled, his work stood still; and in poring again and again over the learned manuscripts--alas!
now lost--in which certain German doctors had sought to explain the pregnant hints of Roger
Bacon, he found it inculcated that the axle of a certain wheel must be composed of a diamond.
Now, in truth, it so happened that Adam's contrivance, which (even without the appliances which
were added in illustration of the theory) was infinitely more complicated than modern research
has found necessary, did not even require the wheel in question, much less the absent diamond;
it happened, also, that his understanding, which, though so obtuse in common life, was in these
matters astonishingly clear, could not trace any mathematical operations by which the diamond
axle would in the least correct the difficulty that had suddenly started up; and yet the accursed
diamond began to haunt him,--the German authority was so positive on the point, and that authority
had in many respects been accurate.  Nor was this all,--the diamond was to be no vulgar diamond;
it was to be endowed, by talismanic skill, with certain properties and virtues; it was to be
for a certain number of hours exposed to the rays of the full moon; it was to be washed in
a primitive and wondrous elixir, the making of which consumed no little of the finest gold.
This diamond was to be to the machine what the soul is to the body,--a glorious, all-pervading,
mysterious principle of activity and life. Such were the dreams that obscured the cradle of
infant science!  And Adam, with all his reasoning powers, big lore in the hard truths of mathematics,
was but one of the giant children of the dawn.  The magnificent phrases and solemn promises
of the mystic Germans got firm hold of his fancy.  Night and day, waking or sleeping, the diamond,
basking in the silence of the full moon, sparkled before his eyes. Meanwhile all was at a stand.
In the very last steps of his discovery he was arrested.  Then suddenly looking round for vulgar
moneys to purchase the precious gem, and the materials for the soluble elixir, he saw that
MONEY had been at work around him,--that he had been sleeping softly and faring sumptuously.
He was seized with a divine rage.  How had Sibyll dared to secrete from him this hoard; how
presumed to waste upon the base body what might have so profited the eternal mind?  In his
relentless ardour, in his sublime devotion and loyalty to his abstract idea, there was a devouring
cruelty, of which this meek and gentle scholar was wholly unconscious.  The grim iron model,
like a Moloch, ate up all things,--health, life, love; and its jaws now opened for his child.
He rose from his bed,--it was daybreak,--he threw on his dressing-robe, he strode into his
daughter's room; the gray twilight came through the comfortless, curtainless casement, deep
sunk into the wall.  Adam did not pause to notice that the poor child, though she had provoked
his anger by refitting his dismal chamber, had spent nothing in giving a less rugged frown
to her own.

The scanty worm-worn furniture, the wretched pallet, the poor attire folded decently beside,--nothing
save that inexpressible purity and cleanliness which, in the lowliest hovel, a pure and maiden
mind gathers round it; nothing to distinguish the room of her whose childhood had passed in
courts from the but of the meanest daughter of drudgery and toil!  No,--he who had lavished
the fortunes of his father and big child into the grave of his idea--no--he saw nothing of
this self-forgetful penury--the diamond danced before him!  He approached the bed; and oh!
the contrast of that dreary room and peasant pallet to the delicate, pure, enchanting loveliness
of the sleeping inmate.  The scanty covering left partially exposed the snow- white neck and
rounded shoulder; the face was pillowed upon the arm, in an infantine grace; the face was slightly
flushed, and the fresh red lips parted into a smile,--for in her sleep the virgin dreamed,--a
happy dream!  It was a sight to have touched a father's heart, to have stopped his footstep,
and hushed his breath into prayer.  And call not Adam hard--unnatural--that he was not then,
as men far more harsh than he--for the father at that moment was not in his breast, the human
man was gone--he himself, like his model, was a machine of iron!--his life was his one idea!

"Wake, child, wake!" he said, in a loud but hollow voice.  "Where is the gold thou hast hidden
from me?  Wake! confess!"

Roused from her gracious dreams thus savagely, Sibyll started, and saw the eager, darkened
face of her father.  Its expression was peculiar and undefinable, for it was not threatening,
angry, stern; there was a vacancy in the eyes, a strain in the features, and yet a wild, intense
animation lighting and pervading all,--it was as the face of one walking in his sleep, and,
at the first confusion of waking, Sibyll thought indeed that such was her father's state. 
But the impatience with which he shook the arm he grasped, and repeated, as he opened convulsively
his other hand, "The gold, Sibyll, the gold!  Why didst thou hide it from me?" speedily convinced
her that her father's mind was under the influence of the prevailing malady that made all its
weakness and all its strength.

"My poor father!" she said pityingly, "wilt thou not leave thyself the means whereby to keep
strength and health for thine high hopes?  Ah, Father, thy Sibyll only hoarded her poor gains
for thee!"

"The gold!" said Adam, mechanically, but in a softer voice,--"all--all thou hast!  How didst
thou get it,--how?"

"By the labours of these hands.  Ah, do not frown on me!"

"Thou--the child of knightly fathers--thou labour!" said Adam, an instinct of his former state
of gentle-born and high-hearted youth flashing from his eyes.  "It was wrong in thee!"

"Dost thou not labour too?"

"Ay, but for the world.  Well, the gold!"

Sibyll rose, and modestly throwing over her form the old mantle which lay on the pallet, passed
to a corner of the room, and opening a chest, took from it the gipsire, and held it out to
her father.

"If it please thee, dear and honoured sir, so be it; and Heaven prosper it in thy hands!"

Before Adam's clutch could close on the gipsire, a rude hand was laid on his shoulder, the
gipsire was snatched from Sibyll, and the gaunt, half-clad form of old Madge interposed between
the two.

"Eh, sir!" she said, in her shrill, cracked tone, "I thought when I heard your door open, and
your step hurrying down, you were after no good deeds.  Fie, master, fie!  I have clung to
you when all reviled, and when starvation within and foul words without made all my hire; for
I ever thought you a good and mild man, though little better than stark wode.  But, augh! to
rob your child thus, to leave her to starve and pine!  We old folks are used to it.  Look round,
look round!  I remember this chamber, when ye first came to your father's hall. Saints of heaven!
There stood the brave bed all rustling with damask of silk; on those stone walls once hung
fine arras of the Flemings,--a marriage gift to my lady from Queen Margaret, and a mighty show
to see, and good for the soul's comforts, with Bible stories wrought on it.  Eh, sir! don't
you call to mind your namesake, Master Adam, in his brave scarlet hosen, and Madam Eve, in
her bonny blue kirtle and laced courtpie? and now--now look round, I say, and see what you
have brought your child to!"

"Hush! hush! Madge, bush!" cried Sibyll, while Adam gazed in evident perturbation and awakening
shame at the intruder, turning his eyes round the room as she spoke, and heaving from time
to time short, deep sighs.

"But I will not hush," pursued the old woman; "I will say my say, for I love ye both, and I
loved my poor mistress who is dead and gone. Ah, sir, groan! it does you good.  And now when
this sweet damsel is growing up, now when you should think of saving a marriage dower for her
(for no marriage where no pot boils), do you rend from her the little that she has drudged
to gain!--She!  Oh, out on your heart! And for what,--for what, sir?  For the neighbours to
set fire to your father's house, and the little ones to--"

"Forbear, woman!" cried Adam, in a voice of thunder; "forbear! Heavens!" And he waved his hand
as he spoke, with so unexpected a majesty that Madge was awed into sudden silence, and, darting
a look of compassion at Sibyll, she hobbled from the room.  Adam stood motionless an instant;
but when he felt his child's soft arms round his neck, when he heard her voice struggling against
tears, praying him not to heed the foolish words of the old servant,--to take--to take all,
that it would be easy to gain more,--the ice of his philosophy melted at once; the man broke
forth, and, clasping Sibyll to his heart, and kissing her cheek, her lips, her hands, he faltered
out, "No! no! forgive me! Forgive thy cruel father!  Much thought has maddened me, I think,--it
has indeed!  Poor child, poor Sibyll," and he stroked her cheek gently, and with a movement
of pathetic pity-- "poor child, thou art pale, and so slight and delicate!  And this chamber--and
thy loneliness--and--ah! my life hath been a curse to thee, yet I meant to bequeath it a boon
to all!

"Father, dear father, speak not thus.  You break my heart.  Here, here, take the gold--or rather,
for thou must not venture out to insult again, let me purchase with it what thou needest. Tell
me, trust me--"

"No!" exclaimed Adam, with that hollow energy by which a man resolves to impose restraint on
himself; "I will not, for all that science ever achieved,--I will not lay this shame on my
soul!  Spend this gold on thyself, trim this room, buy thee raiment,--all that thou needest,--I
order, I command it!  And hark thee, if thou gettest more, hide it from me, hide it well; men's
desires are foul tempters!  I never knew, in following wisdom, that I had a vice.  I wake and
find myself a miser and a robber!"

And with these words he fled from the girl's chamber, gained his own, and locked the door.

Sibyll, whose soft heart bled for her father, and who now reproached herself for having concealed
from him her little hoard, began hastily to dress that she might seek him out, and soothe the
painful feelings which the honest rudeness of Madge had aroused.  But before her task was concluded,
there pealed a loud knock at the outer door.  She heard the old housekeeper's quivering voice
responding to a loud clear tone; and presently Madge herself ascended the stairs to Warner's
room, followed by a man whom Sibyll instantly recognized--for he was not one easily to be forgotten--as
their protector from the assault of the mob.  She drew back hastily as he passed her door,
and in some wonder and alarm awaited the descent of Madge.  That venerable personage having
with some difficulty induced her master to open his door and admit the stranger, came straight
into her young lady's chamber. "Cheer up, cheer up, sweetheart," said the old woman; "I think
better days will shine soon; for the honest man I have admitted says he is but come to tell
Master Warner something that will redound much to his profit.  Oh, he is a wonderful fellow,
this same Robin!  You saw how he turned the cullions from burning the old house!"

"What! you know this man, Madge!  What is he, and who?"

Madge looked puzzled.  "That is more than I can say, sweet mistress. But though he has been
but some weeks in the neighbourhood, they all hold him in high count and esteem.  For why--it
is said he is a rich man and a kind one.  He does a world of good to the poor."

While Sibyll listened to such explanations as Madge could give her, the stranger, who had carefully
closed the door of the student's chamber, after regarding Adam for a moment with silent but
keen scrutiny, thus began,--

"When last we met, Adam Warner, it was with satchells on our backs. Look well at me!"

"Troth," answered Adam, languidly, for he was still under the deep dejection that had followed
the scene with Sibyll, "I cannot call you to mind, nor seems it veritable that our schooldays
passed together, seeing that my hair is gray and men call me old; but thou art in all the lustihood
of this human life."

"Nathless," returned the stranger, "there are but two years or so between thine age and mine.
When thou wert poring over the crabbed text, and pattering Latin by the ell, dost thou not
remember a lack- grace good-for-naught, Robert Hilyard, who was always setting the school in
an uproar, and was finally outlawed from that boy-world, as he hath been since from the man's
world, for inciting the weak to resist the strong?"

"Ah," exclaimed Adam, with a gleam of something like joy on his face, "art thou indeed that
riotous, brawling, fighting, frank-hearted, bold fellow, Robert Hilyard?  Ha! ha!--those were
merry days!  I have known none like them--"  The old schoolfellows shook hands heartily.

"The world has not fared well with thee in person or pouch, I fear me, poor Adam," said Hilyard;
"thou canst scarcely have passed thy fiftieth year, and yet thy learned studies have given
thee the weight of sixty; while I, though ever in toil and bustle, often wanting a meal, and
even fearing the halter, am strong and hearty as when I shot my first fallow buck in the king's
forest, and kissed the forester's pretty daughter.  Yet, methinks, Adam, if what I hear of
thy tasks be true, thou and I have each been working for one end; thou to make the world other
than it is, and I to--"

"What! hast thou, too, taken nourishment from the bitter milk of Philosophy,--thou, fighting Rob?"

"I know not whether it be called philosophy, but marry, Edward of York would call it rebellion;
they are much the same, for both war against rules established!" returned Hilyard, with more
depth of thought than his careless manner seemed to promise.  He paused, and laying his broad
brown hand on Warner's shoulder, resumed, "Thou art poor, Adam!" "Very poor,--very, very!"

"Does thy philosophy disdain gold?"

"What can philosophy achieve without it?  She is a hungry dragon, and her very food is gold!"

"Wilt thou brave some danger--thou went ever a fearless boy when thy blood was up, though so
meek and gentle--wilt thou brave some danger for large reward?"

"My life braves the scorn of men, the pinchings of famine, and, it may be, the stake and the
fagot.  Soldiers brave not the dangers that are braved by a wise man in an unwise age!"

"Gramercy! thou hast a hero's calm aspect while thou speakest, and thy words move me!  Listen!
Thou wert wont, when Henry of Windsor was King of England, to visit and confer with him on
learned matters.  He is now a captive in the Tower; but his jailers permit him still to receive
the visits of pious monks and harmless scholars.  I ask thee to pay him such a visit, and for
this office I am empowered, by richer men than myself, to award thee the guerdon of twenty
broad pieces of gold."

"Twenty!--A mine! a Tmolus!" exclaimed Adam, in uncontrollable glee. "Twenty!  O true friend,
then my work will be born at last!"

"But hear me further, Adam, for I will not deceive thee; the visit hath its peril!  Thou must
first see if the mind of King Henry, for king he is, though the usurper wear his holy crown,
be clear and healthful.  Thou knowest he is subject to dark moods,--suspension of man's reason;
and if he be, as his friends hope, sane and right- judging, thou wilt give him certain papers,
which, after his hand has signed them, thou wilt bring back to me.  If in this thou succeedest,
know that thou mayst restore the royalty of Lancaster to the purple and the throne; that thou
wilt have princes and earls for favourers and protectors to thy learned life; that thy fortunes
and fame are made!  Fail, be discovered,--and Edward of York never spares!--thy guerdon will
be the nearest tree and the strongest rope!"

"Robert," said Adam, who had listened to this address with unusual attention, "thou dealest
with me plainly, and as man should deal with man.  I know little of stratagem and polity, wars
and kings; and save that King Henry, though passing ignorant in the mathematics, and more given
to alchemists than to solid seekers after truth, was once or twice gracious to me, I could
have no choice, in these four walls, between an Edward and a Henry on the throne.  But I have
a king whose throne is in mine own breast, and, alack, it taxeth me heavily, and with sore
burdens."

"I comprehend," said the visitor, glancing round the room,--"I comprehend: thou wantest money
for thy books and instruments, and thy melancholic passion is thy sovereign.  Thou wilt incur
the risk?"

"I will," said Adam.  "I would rather seek in the lion's den for what I lack than do what I
well-nigh did this day."

"What crime was that, poor scholar?" said Robin, smiling.

"My child worked for her bread and my luxuries--I would have robbed her, old schoolfellow.
Ha, ha! what is cord and gibbet to one so tempted?"

A tear stood in the bright gray eyes of the bluff visitor.  "Ah, Adam," he said sadly, "only
by the candle held in the skeleton hand of Poverty can man read his own dark heart.  But thou,
Workman of Knowledge, hast the same interest as the poor who dig and delve. Though strange
circumstance hath made me the servant and emissary of Margaret, think not that I am but the
varlet of the great."  Hilyard paused a moment, and resumed,--

"Thou knowest, peradventure, that my race dates from an elder date than these Norman nobles,
who boast their robber-fathers.  From the renowned Saxon Thane, who, free of hand and of cheer,
won the name of Hildegardis, [Hildegardis, namely, old German, a person of noble or generous
disposition.  Wotton's "Baronetage," art. Hilyard, or Hildyard, of Pattrington.] our family
took its rise.  But under these Norman barons we sank with the nation to which we belonged.
Still were we called gentlemen, and still were dubbed knights.  But as I grew up to man's estate,
I felt myself more Saxon than gentleman, and, as one of a subject and vassal race, I was a
son of the Saxon people. My father, like thee, was a man of thought and bookcraft.  I dare
own to thee that he was a Lollard; and with the religion of those bold foes to priest-vice,
goes a spirit that asks why the people should be evermore the spoil and prey of lords and kings.
Early in my youth, my father, fearing rack and fagot in England, sought refuge in the Hans
town of Lubeck.  There I learned grave truths,--how liberty can be won and guarded.  Later
in life I saw the republics of Italy, and I asked why they were so glorious in all the arts
and craft of civil life, while the braver men of France and England seemed as savages by the
side of the Florentine burgess, nay, of the Lombard vine-dresser.  I saw that, even when those
republics fell a victim to some tyrant or podesta, their men still preserved rights and uttered
thoughts which left them more free and more great than the Commons of England after all their
boasted wars.  I came back to my native land and settled in the North, as my franklin ancestry
before me.  The broad lands of my forefathers had devolved on the elder line, and gave a knight's
fee to Sir Robert Hilyard, who fell afterwards at Towton for the Lancastrians.  But I had won
gold in the far countree, and I took farm and homestead near Lord Warwick's tower of Middleham.
The feud between Lancaster and York broke forth; Earl Warwick summoned his retainers, myself
amongst them, since I lived upon his land; I sought the great earl, and I told him boldly--him
whom the Commons deemed a friend, and a foe to all malfaisance and abuse--I told him that the
war he asked me to join seemed to me but a war of ambitious lords, and that I saw not how the
Commons were to be bettered, let who would be king.  The earl listened and deigned to reason;
and when he saw I was not convinced, he left me to my will; for he is a noble chief, and I
admired even his angry pride, when he said, 'Let no man fight for Warwick whose heart beats
not in his cause.'  I lived afterwards to discharge my debt to the proud earl, and show him
how even the lion may be meshed, and how even the mouse may gnaw the net.  But to my own tragedy.
So I quitted those parts, for I feared my own resolution near so great a man; I made a new
home not far from the city of York. So, Adam, when all the land around bristled with pike and
gisarme, and while my own cousin and namesake, the head of my House, was winning laurels and
wasting blood--I, thy quarrelsome, fighting friend--lived at home in peace with my wife and
child (for I was now married, and wife and child were dear to me), and tilled my lands.  But
in peace I was active and astir, for my words inflamed the bosoms of labourers and peasants,
and many of them, benighted as they were, thought with me.  One day--I was absent from home,
selling my grain in the marts of York--one day there entered the village a young captain, a
boy-chief, Edward Earl of March, beating for recruits.  Dost thou heed me, Adam? Well, man--well,
the peasants stood aloof from tromp and banner, and they answered, to all the talk of hire
and fame, 'Robin Hilyard tells us we have nothing to gain but blows,--leave us to hew and to
delve.' Oh, Adam, this boy, this chief, the Earl of March, now crowned King Edward, made but
one reply, 'This Robin Hilyard must be a wise man,-- show me his house.'  They pointed out
the ricks, the barns, the homestead, and in five minutes all--all were in flames.  'Tell the
hilding, when he returns, that thus Edward of March, fair to friends and terrible to foes,
rewards the coward who disaffects the men of Yorkshire to their chief.' And by the blazing
rafters, and the pale faces of the silent crowd, he rode on his way to battle and the throne!"

Hilyard paused, and the anguish of his countenance was terrible to behold.

"I returned to find a heap of ashes; I returned to find my wife a maniac; I returned to find
my child--my boy--great God!--he had run to hide himself, in terror at the torches and the
grim men; they had failed to discover him, till, too late, his shrieks, amidst the crashing
walls, burst on his mother's ear,--and the scorched, mangled, lifeless corpse lay on that mother's
bosom!"

Adam rose; his figure was transformed.  Not the stooping student, but the knight-descended
man, seemed to tower in the murky chamber; his hand felt at his side, as for a sword; he stifled
a curse, and Hilyard, in that suppressed low voice which evinces a strong mind in deep emotion,
continued his tale.

"Blessed be the Divine Intercessor, the mother of the dead died too! Behold me, a lonely, ruined,
wifeless, childless wretch!  I made all the world my foe!  The old love of liberty (alone left
me) became a crime; I plunged into the gloom of the forest, a robber-chief, sparing--no, never-never--never
one York captain, one spurred knight, one belted lord!  But the poor, my Saxon countrymen,
they had suffered, and were safe!

"One dark twilight--thou hast heard the tale, every village minstrel sets it to his viol--a
majestic woman, a hunted fugitive, crossed my path; she led a boy in her hand, a year or so
younger than my murdered child.  'Friend!' said the woman, fearlessly, 'save the son of your
king; I am Margaret, Queen of England!' I saved them both.  From that hour the robber-chief,
the Lollard's son, became a queen's friend. Here opened, at least, vengeance against the fell
destroyer.  Now see you why I seek you, why tempt you into danger?  Pause, if you will, for
my passion heats my blood,--and all the kings since Saul, it may be, are not worth one scholar's
life!  And yet," continued Hilyard, regaining his ordinary calm tone, "and yet, it seemeth
to me, as I said at first, that all who labour have in this a common cause and interest with
the poor.  This woman-king, though bloody man, with his wine-cups and his harlots, this usurping
York--his very existence flaunts the life of the sons of toil.  In civil war and in broil,
in strife that needs the arms of the people, the people shall get their own."

"I will go," said Adam, and he advanced to the door.  Hilyard caught his arm.  "Why, friend,
thou hast not even the documents, and how wouldst thou get access to the prison?  Listen to
me; or," added the conspirator, observing poor Adam's abstracted air, "or let me rather speak
a word to thy fair daughter; women have ready wit, and are the pioneers to the advance of men!
Adam, Adam! thou art dreaming!"--He shook the philosopher's arm roughly.

"I heed you," said Warner, meekly.

"The first thing required," renewed Hilyard, "is a permit to see King Henry.  This is obtained
either from the Lord Worcester, governor of the Tower, a cruel man, who may deny it, or the
Lord Hastings, Edward's chamberlain, a humane and gentle one, who will readily grant it.  Let
not thy daughter know why thou wouldst visit Henry; let her suppose it is solely to make report
of his health to Margaret; let her not know there is scheming or danger,--so, at least, her
ignorance will secure her safety.  But let her go to the lord chamberlain, and obtain the order
for a learned clerk to visit the learned prisoner-- to--ha! well thought of--this strange machine
is, doubtless, the invention of which thy neighbours speak; this shall make thy excuse; thou
wouldst divert the prisoner with thy mechanical--comprehendest thou, Adam?"

"Ah, King Henry will see the model, and when he is on the throne--"

"He will protect the scholar!" interrupted Hilyard.  "Good! good! Wait here; I will confer
with thy daughter."  He gently pushed aside Adam, opened the door, and on descending the stairs,
found Sibyll by the large casement where she had stood with Marmaduke, and heard the rude stave
of the tymbesteres.

The anxiety the visit of Hilyard had occasioned her was at once allayed, when he informed her
that he had been her father's schoolmate, and desired to become his friend.  And when he drew
a moving picture of the exiled condition of Margaret and the young prince, and their natural
desire to learn tidings of the health of the deposed king, her gentle heart, forgetting the
haughty insolence with which her royal mistress had often wounded and chilled her childhood,
felt all the generous and compassionate sympathy the conspirator desired to awaken.  "The occasion,"
added Hilyard, "for learning the poor captive's state now offers!  He hath heard of your father's
labours; he desires to learn their nature from his own lips.  He is allowed to receive, by
an order from King Edward's chamberlain, the visits of those scholars in whose converse he
was ever wont to delight.  Wilt thou so far aid the charitable work as to seek the Lord Hastings,
and crave the necessary license?  Thou seest that thy father has wayward and abstract moods;
he might forget that Henry of Windsor is no longer king, and might give him that title in speaking
to Lord Hastings,--a slip of the tongue which the law styles treason."

"Certes," said Sibyll, quickly, "if my father would seek the poor captive, I will be his messenger
to my Lord Hastings.  But oh, sir, as thou hast known my father's boyhood, and as thou hopest
for mercy in the last day, tempt to no danger one so guileless!"

Hilyard winced as he interrupted her hastily,

"There is no danger if thou wilt obtain the license.  I will say more,--a reward awaits him,
that will not only banish his poverty but save his life."

"His life!"

"Ay! seest thou not, fair mistress, that Adam Warner is dying, not of the body's hunger, but
of the soul's?  He craveth gold, that his toils may reap their guerdon.  If that gold be denied,
his toils will fret him to the grave!"

"Alas! alas! it is true."

"That gold he shall honourably win!  Nor is this all.  Thou wilt see the Lord Hastings: he
is less learned, perhaps, than Worcester, less dainty in accomplishments and gifts than Anthony
Woodville, but his mind is profound and vast; all men praise him save the queen's kin. He loves
scholars; he is mild to distress; he laughs at the superstitions of the vulgar.  Thou wilt
see the Lord Hastings, and thou mayst interest him in thy father's genius and his fate!"

"There is frankness in thy voice, and I will trust thee," answered Sibyll.  "When shall I seek
this lord?"

"This day, if thou wilt.  He lodges at the Tower, and gives access, it is said, to all who
need his offices, or seek succour from his power."

"This day, then, be it!" answered Sibyll, calmly.

Hilyard gazed at her countenance, rendered so noble in its youthful resignation, in its soft
firmness of expression, and muttering, "Heaven prosper thee, maiden; we shall meet tomorrow,"
descended the stairs, and quitted the house.

His heart smote him when he was in the street.  "If evil should come to this meek scholar,
to that poor child's father, it would be a sore sin to my soul.  But no; I will not think it.
The saints will not suffer this bloody Edward to triumph long; and in this vast chessboard
of vengeance and great ends, we must move men to and fro, and harden our natures to the hazard
of the game."

Sibyll sought her father; his mind had flown back to the model.  He was already living in the
life that the promised gold would give to the dumb thought.  True that all the ingenious additions
to the engine--additions that were to convince the reason and startle the fancy--were not yet
complete (for want, of course, of the diamond bathed in moonbeams); but still there was enough
in the inventions already achieved to excite curiosity and obtain encouragement.  So, with
care and diligence and sanguine hope the philosopher prepared the grim model for exhibition
to a man who had worn a crown, and might wear again.  But with that innocent and sad cunning
which is so common with enthusiasts of one idea, the sublime dwellers of the narrow border
between madness and inspiration, Adam, amidst his excitement, contrived to conceal from his
daughter all glimpse of the danger he ran, of the correspondence of which he was to be the
medium,--or rather, may we think that he had forgotten both!  Not the stout Warwick himself,
in the roar of battle, thought so little of peril to life and limb as that gentle student,
in the reveries of his lonely closet; and therefore, all unsuspicious, and seeing but diversion
to Adam's recent gloom of despair, an opening to all his bright prospects, Sibyll attired herself
in her holiday garments, drew her wimple closely round her face, and summoning Madge to attend
her, bent her way to the Tower.  Near York House, within view of the Sanctuary and the Palace
of Westminster, they took a boat, and arrived at the stairs of the Tower.

CHAPTER IV.

LORD HASTINGS.

William Lord Hastings was one of the most remarkable men of the age. Philip de Comines bears
testimony to his high repute for wisdom and virtue.  Born the son of a knight of ancient lineage
but scanty lands, he had risen, while yet in the prime of life, to a rank and an influence
second, perhaps, only to the House of Nevile.  Like Lord Montagu, he united in happy combination
the talents of a soldier and a courtier.  But as a statesman, a schemer, a thinker, Montagu,
with all his craft, was inferior to Hastings.  In this, the latter had but two equals,--namely,
George, the youngest of the Nevile brothers, Archbishop of York; and a boy, whose intellect
was not yet fully developed, but in whom was already apparent to the observant the dawn of
a restless, fearless, calculating, and subtle genius.  That boy, whom the philosophers of Utrecht
had taught to reason, whom the lessons of Warwick had trained to arms, was Richard, Duke of
Gloucester, famous even now for his skill in the tilt-yard and his ingenuity in the rhetoric
of the schools.

The manners of Lord Hastings had contributed to his fortunes.  Despite the newness of his honours,
even the haughtiest of the ancient nobles bore him no grudge, for his demeanour was at once
modest and manly. He was peculiarly simple and unostentatious in his habits, and possessed
that nameless charm which makes men popular with the lowly and welcome to the great.  [On Edward's
accession so highly were the services of Hastings appreciated by the party, that not only the
king, but many of the nobility, contributed to render his wealth equal to his new station,
by grants of lands and moneys.  Several years afterwards, when he went with Edward into France,
no less than two lords, nine knights, fifty-eight squires, and twenty gentlemen joined his
train.--Dugdale: Baronage, p. 583.  Sharon Turner: History of England, vol. iii. p. 380.] 
But in that day a certain mixture of vice was necessary to success; and Hastings wounded no
self-love by the assumption of unfashionable purism.  He was regarded with small favour by
the queen, who knew him as the companion of Edward in his pleasures, and at a later period
accused him of enticing her faithless lord into unworthy affections.  And certain it is, that
he was foremost amongst the courtiers in those adventures which we call the excesses of gayety
and folly, though too often leading to Solomon's wisdom and his sadness.  But profligacy with
Hastings had the excuse of ardent passions: he had loved deeply, and unhappily, in his earlier
youth, and he gave in to the dissipation of the time with the restless eagerness common to
strong and active natures when the heart is not at ease; and under all the light fascination
of his converse; or the dissipation of his life, lurked the melancholic temperament of a man
worthy of nobler things.  Nor was the courtly vice of the libertine the only drawback to the
virtuous character assigned to Hastings by Comines.  His experience of men had taught him something
of the disdain of the cynic, and he scrupled not at serving his pleasures or his ambition by
means which his loftier nature could not excuse to his clear sense.  [See Comines, book vi.,
for a curious anecdote of what Mr. Sharon Turner happily calls "the moral coquetry" of Hastings,--an
anecdote which reveals much of his character.]  Still, however, the world, which had deteriorated,
could not harden him.  Few persons so able acted so frequently from impulse; the impulses were
for the most part affectionate and generous, but then came the regrets of caution and experience;
and Hastings summoned his intellect to correct the movement of his heart,--in other words,
reflection sought to undo what impulse had suggested.  Though so successful a gallant, he had
not acquired the ruthless egotism of the sensualist; and his conduct to women often evinced
the weakness of giddy youth rather than the cold deliberation of profligate manhood.  Thus
in his veriest vices there was a spurious amiability, a seductive charm; while in the graver
affairs of life the intellectual susceptibility of his nature served but to quicken his penetration
and stimulate his energies, and Hastings might have said, with one of his Italian contemporaries,
"That in subjection to the influences of women he had learned the government of men."  In a
word, his powers to attract, and his capacities to command, may be guessed by this,--that Lord
Hastings was the only man Richard III. seems to have loved, when Duke of Gloucester, [Sir Thomas
More, "Life of Edward V.," speaks of "the great love" Richard bore to Hastings.] and the only
man he seems to have feared, when resolved to be King of England.

Hastings was alone in the apartments assigned to him in the Tower, when his page, with a peculiar
smile, announced to him the visit of a young donzell, who would not impart her business to
his attendants.

The accomplished chamberlain looked up somewhat impatiently from the beautiful manuscripts,
enriched with the silver verse of Petrarch, which lay open on his table, and after muttering
to himself, "It is only Edward to whom the face of a woman never is unwelcome," bade the page
admit the visitor.  The damsel entered, and the door closed upon her.

"Be not alarmed, maiden," said Hastings, touched by the downcast bend of the hooded countenance,
and the unmistakable and timid modesty of his visitor's bearing.  "What hast thou to say to me?"

At the sound of his voice, Sibyll Warner started, and uttered a faint exclamation.  The stranger
of the pastime-ground was before her. Instinctively she drew the wimple yet more closely round
her face, and laid her hand upon the bolt of the door as if in the impulse of retreat.

The nobleman's curiosity was roused.  He looked again and earnestly on the form that seemed
to shrink from his gaze; then rising slowly, he advanced, and laid his band on her arm.  "Donzell,
I recognize thee," he said, in a voice that sounded cold and stern.  "What service wouldst
thou ask me to render thee?  Speak!  Nay!  I pray thee, speak."

"Indeed, good my lord," said Sibyll, conquering her confusion; and, lifting her wimple, her
dark blue eyes met those bent on her, with fearless truth and innocence, "I knew not, and you
will believe me,--I knew not till this moment that I had such cause for gratitude to the Lord
Hastings.  I sought you but on the behalf of my father, Master Adam Warner, who would fain
have the permission accorded to other scholars, to see the Lord Henry of Windsor, who was gracious
to him in other days, and to while the duress of that princely captive with the show of a quaint
instrument he has invented."

"Doubtless," answered Hastings, who deserved his character (rare in that day) for humanity
and mildness--"doubt less it will pleasure me, nor offend his grace the king, to show all courtesy
and indulgence to the unhappy gentleman and lord, whom the weal of England condemns us to hold
incarcerate.  I have heard of thy father, maiden, an honest and simple man, in whom we need
not fear a conspirator; and of thee, young mistress, I have heard also, since we parted."

"Of me, noble sir?"

"Of thee," said Hastings, with a smile; and, placing a seat for her, he took from the table
an illuminated manuscript.  "I have to thank thy friend Master Alwyn for procuring me this
treasure!"

"What, my lord!" said Sibyll, and her eyes glistened, were you--you the--the--"

"The fortunate person whom Alwyn has enriched at so slight a cost? Yes.  Do not grudge me my
good fortune in this.  Thou hast nobler treasures, methinks, to bestow on another!"

"My good lord!"

"Nay, I must not distress thee.  And the young gentleman has a fair face; may it bespeak a
true heart!"

These words gave Sibyll an emotion of strange delight.  They seemed spoken sadly, they seemed
to betoken a jealous sorrow; they awoke the strange, wayward woman-feeling, which is pleased
at the pain that betrays the woman's influence: the girl's rosy lips smiled maliciously.  Hastings
watched her, and her face was so radiant with that rare gleam of secret happiness,--so fresh,
so young, so pure, and withal so arch and captivating, that hackneyed and jaded as he was in
the vulgar pursuit of pleasure, the sight moved better and tenderer feelings than those of
the sensualist. "Yes," he muttered to himself, "there are some toys it were a sin to sport
with and cast away amidst the broken rubbish of gone passions!"

He turned to the table, and wrote the order of admission to Henry's prison, and as he gave
it to Sibyll, he said, "Thy young gallant, I see, is at the court now.  It is a perilous ordeal,
and especially to one for whom the name of Nevile opens the road to advancement and honour.
Men learn betimes in courts to forsake Love for Plutus, and many a wealthy lord would give
his heiress to the poorest gentleman who claims kindred to the Earl of Salisbury and Warwick."

"May my father's guest so prosper," answered Sibyll, "for he seems of loyal heart and gentle
nature!"

"Thou art unselfish, sweet mistress," said Hastings; and, surprised by her careless tone, he
paused a moment: "or art thou, in truth, indifferent?  Saw I not thy hand in his, when even
those loathly tymbesteres chanted warning to thee for loving, not above thy merits, but, alas,
it may be, above thy fortunes?"

Sibyll's delight increased.  Oh, then, he had not applied that hateful warning to himself!
He guessed not her secret.  She blushed, and the blush was so chaste and maidenly, while the
smile that went with it was so ineffably animated and joyous, that Hastings exclaimed, with
unaffected admiration, "Surely, fair donzell, Petrarch dreamed of thee, when he spoke of the
woman-blush and the angel-smile of Laura. Woe to the man who would injure thee!  Farewell!
I would not see thee too often, unless I saw thee ever."

He lifted her hand to his lips with a chivalrous respect as he spoke; opened the door, and
called his page to attend her to the gates.

Sibyll was more flattered by the abrupt dismissal than if he had knelt to detain her.  How
different seemed the world as her light step wended homeward!

CHAPTER V.

MASTER ADAM WARNER AND KING HENRY THE SIXTH.

The next morning Hilyard revisited Warner with the letters for Henry. The conspirator made
Adam reveal to him the interior mechanism of the Eureka, to which Adam, who had toiled all
night, had appended one of the most ingenious contrivances he had as yet been enabled (sans
the diamond) to accomplish, for the better display of the agencies which the engine was designed
to achieve.  This contrivance was full of strange cells and recesses, in one of which the documents
were placed. And there they lay, so well concealed as to puzzle the minutest search, if not
aided by the inventor, or one to whom he had communicated the secrets of the contrivance.

After repeated warnings and exhortations to discretion, Hilyard then, whose busy, active mind
had made all the necessary arrangements, summoned a stout-looking fellow, whom he had left
below, and with his aid conveyed the heavy machine across the garden, to a back lane, where
a mule stood ready to receive the burden.

"Suffer this trusty fellow to guide thee, dear Adam; he will take thee through ways where thy
brutal neighbours are not likely to meet and molest thee.  Call all thy wits to the surface.
Speed and prosper!"

"Fear not," said Adam, disdainfully.  "In the neighbourhood of kings, science is ever safe.
Bless thee, child," and he laid his hand upon Sibyll's head, for she had accompanied them thus
far in silence, "now go in."

"I go with thee, Father," said Sibyll, firmly.  "Master Hilyard, it is best so," she whispered;
"what if my father fall into one of his reveries?"

"You are right: go with him, at least, to the Tower gate.  Hard by is the house of a noble
dame and a worthy, known to our friend Hugh, where thou mayest wait Master Warner's return.
It will not suit thy modesty and sex to loiter amongst the pages and soldiery in the yard.
Adam, thy daughter must wend with thee."

Adam had not attended to this colloquy, and mechanically bowing his head, he set off, and was
greatly surprised, on gaining the river-side (where a boat was found large enough to accommodate
not only the human passengers, but the mule and its burden), to see Sibyll by his side.

The imprisonment of the unfortunate Henry, though guarded with sufficient rigour against all
chances of escape, was not, as the reader has perceived, at this period embittered by unnecessary
harshness.  His attendants treated him with respect, his table was supplied more abundantly
and daintily than his habitual abstinence required, and the monks and learned men whom he had
favoured, were, we need not repeat, permitted to enliven his solitude with their grave converse.

On the other hand, all attempts at correspondence between Margaret or the exiled Lancastrians
and himself had been jealously watched, and when detected, the emissaries had been punished
with relentless severity.  A man named Hawkins had been racked for attempting to borrow money
for the queen from the great London merchant, Sir Thomas Cook.  A shoemaker had been tortured
to death with red-hot pincers for abetting her correspondence with her allies.  Various persons
had been racked for similar offences; but the energy of Margaret and the zeal of her adherents
were still unexhausted and unconquered.

Either unconscious or contemptuous of the perils to which he was subjected, the student, with
his silent companions, performed the voyage, and landed in sight of the Fortress-Palatine.
And now Hugh stopped before a house of good fashion, knocked at the door, which was opened
by an old servitor, disappeared for a few moments, and returning, informed Sibyll, in a meaning
whisper, that the gentlewoman within was a good Lancastrian, and prayed the donzell to rest
in her company till Master Warner's return.

Sibyll, accordingly, after pressing her father's hand without fear-- for she had deemed the
sole danger Adam risked was from the rabble by the way--followed Hugh into a fair chamber,
strewed with rushes, where an aged dame, of noble air and aspect, was employed at her broidery
frame.  This gentlewoman, the widow of a nobleman who had fallen in the service of Henry, received
her graciously, and Hugh then retired to complete his commission.  The student, the mule, the
model, and the porter pursued their way to the entrance of that part of the gloomy palace inhabited
by Henry.  Here they were stopped, and Adam, after rummaging long in vain for the chamberlain's
passport, at last happily discovered it, pinned to his sleeve, by Sibyll's forethought.  On
this a gentleman was summoned to inspect the order, and in a few moments Adam was conducted
to the presence of the illustrious prisoner.

"And what," said a subaltern officer, lolling by the archway of the (now styled) "Bloody Tower,"
hard by the turret devoted to the prisoner, [The Wakefield Tower] and speaking to Adam's guide,
who still mounted guard by the model,--"what may be the precious burden of which thou art the
convoy?"

"Marry, sir," said Hugh, who spoke in the strong Yorkshire dialect, which we are obliged to
render into intelligible English--"marry, I weet not,--it is some curious puppet-box, or quiet
contrivance, that Master Warner, whom they say is a very deft and ingenious personage, is permitted
to bring hither for the Lord Henry's diversion."

"A puppet-box!" said the officer, with much animated curiosity. "'Fore the Mass! that must
be a pleasant sight.  Lift the lid, fellow!"

"Please your honour, I do not dare," returned Hugh,--"I but obey orders."

"Obey mine, then.  Out of the way," and the officer lifted the lid of the pannier with the
point of his dagger, and peered within.  He drew back, much disappointed.  "Holy Mother!" said
he, "this seemeth more like an instrument of torture than a juggler's merry device.  It looks
parlous ugly!"

"Hush!" said one of the lazy bystanders, with whom the various gateways and courts of the Palace-Fortress
were crowded, "hush--thy cap and thy knee, sir!"

The officer started; and, looking round, perceived a young man of low stature, followed by
three or four knights and nobles, slowly approaching towards the arch, and every cap in the
vicinity was off, and every knee bowed.

The eye of this young man was already bent, with a searching and keen gaze, upon the motionless
mule, standing patiently by the Wakefield Tower; and turning from the mule to the porter, the
latter shrunk, and grew pale, at that dark, steady, penetrating eye, which seemed to pierce
at once into the secrets and hearts of men.

"Who may this young lord be?" he whispered to the officer.

"Prince Richard, Duke of Gloucester, man," was the answer.  "Uncover, varlet!"

"Surely," said the prince, pausing by the gate, "surely this is no sumpter-mule, bearing provisions
to the Lord Henry of Windsor.  It would be but poor respect to that noble person, whom, alas
the day! his grace the king is unwillingly compelled to guard from the malicious designs of
rebels and mischief-seekers, that one not bearing the king's livery should attend to any of
the needful wants of so worshipful a lord and guest!"

"My lord," said the officer at the gate, "one Master Adam Warner hath just, by permission,
been conducted to the Lord Henry's presence, and the beast beareth some strange and grim-looking
device for my lord's diversion."

The singular softness and urbanity which generally characterized the Duke of Gloucester's tone
and bearing at that time,--which in a court so full of factions and intrigues made him the
enemy of none and seemingly the friend of all, and, conjoined with abilities already universally
acknowledged, had given to his very boyhood a pre-eminence of grave repute and good opinion,
which, indeed, he retained till the terrible circumstances connected with his accession to
the throne, under the bloody name of Richard the Third, roused all men's hearts and reasons
into the persuasion that what before had seemed virtue was but dissimulation,--this singular
sweetness, we say, of manner and voice, had in it, nevertheless, something that imposed and
thrilled and awed.  And in truth, in our common and more vulgar intercourse with life, we must
have observed, that where external gentleness of bearing is accompanied by a repute for iron
will, determined resolution, and a serious, profound, and all-inquiring intellect, it carries
with it a majesty wholly distinct from that charm which is exercised by one whose mildness
of nature corresponds with the outward humility; and, if it does not convey the notion of falseness,
bears the appearance of that perfect self-possession, that calm repose of power, which intimidates
those it influences far more than the imperious port and the loud voice.  And they who best
knew the duke, knew also that, despite this general smoothness of mien, his temperament was
naturally irritable, quick, and subject to stormy gusts of passion, the which defects his admirers
praised him for labouring hard and sedulously to keep in due control.  Still, to a keen observer,
the constitutional tendencies of that nervous temperament were often visible, even in his blandest
moments, even when his voice was most musical, his smile most gracious.  If something stung
or excited him, an uneasy gnawing of the nether lip, a fretful playing with his dagger, drawing
it up and down from its sheath, [Pol. Virg. 565] a slight twitching of the muscles of the face,
and a quiver of the eyelid, betokened the efforts he made at self-command; and now, as his
dark eyes rested upon Hugh's pale countenance, and then glanced upon the impassive mule, dozing
quietly under the weight of poor Adam's model, his hand mechanically sought his dagger-hilt,
and his face took a sinister and sombre expression.

"Thy name, friend?"

"Hugh Withers, please you, my lord duke."

"Um!  North country, by thine accent.  Dost thou serve this Master Warner?"

"No, my lord, I was only hired with my mule to carry--"

"Ah, true! to carry what thy pannier contains; open it.  Holy Paul! a strange jonglerie indeed!
This Master Adam Warner,--methinks, I have heard his name--a learned man--um--let me see his
safe conduct. Right,--it is Lord Hastings's signature."  But still the prince held the passport,
and still suspiciously eyed the Eureka and its appliances, which, in their complicated and
native ugliness of doors, wheels, pipes, and chimney, were exposed to his view.  At this moment,
one of the attendants of Henry descended the stairs of the Wakefield Tower, with a request
that the model might be carried up to divert the prisoner.

Richard paused a moment, as the officer hesitatingly watched his countenance before giving
the desired permission.  But the prince, turning to him, and smoothing his brow, said mildly,
"Certes! all that can divert the Lord Henry must be innocent pastime.  And I am well pleased
that he hath this cheerful mood for recreation.  It gainsayeth those who would accuse us of
rigour in his durance.  Yes, this warrant is complete and formal;" and the prince returned
the passport to the officer, and walked slowly on through that gloomy arch ever more associated
with Richard of Gloucester's memory, and beneath the very room in which our belief yet holds
that the infant sons of Edward IV. breathed their last; still, as Gloucester moved, he turned
and turned, and kept his eye furtively fixed upon the porter.

"Lovell," he said to one of the gentlemen who attended him, and who was among the few admitted
to his more peculiar intimacy, "that man is of the North."

"Well, my lord?"

"The North was always well affected to the Lancastrians.  Master Warner hath been accused of
witchcraft.  Marry, I should like to see his device--um; Master Catesby, come hither,--approach,
sir.  Go back, and the instant Adam Warner and his contrivance are dismissed, bring them both
to me in the king's chamber.  Thou understandest?  We too would see his device,--and let neither
man nor mechanical, when once they reappear, out of thine eye's reach.  For divers and subtle
are the contrivances of treasonable men!"

Catesby bowed, and Richard, without speaking further, took his way to the royal apartments,
which lay beyond the White Tower, towards the river, and are long since demolished.

Meanwhile the porter, with the aid of one of the attendants, had carried the model into the
chamber of the august captive.  Henry, attired in a loose robe, was pacing the room with a
slow step, and his head sunk on his bosom,--while Adam with much animation was enlarging on
the wonders of the contrivance he was about to show him.  The chamber was commodious, and furnished
with sufficient attention to the state and dignity of the prisoner; for Edward, though savage
and relentless when his blood was up, never descended into the cool and continuous cruelty
of detail.

The chamber may yet be seen,--its shape a spacious octagon; but the walls now rude and bare
were then painted and blazoned with scenes from the Old Testament.  The door opened beneath
the pointed arch in the central side (not where it now does), giving entrance from a small
anteroom, in which the visitor now beholds the receptacle for old rolls and papers.  At the
right, on entering, where now, if our memory mistake not, is placed a press, stood the bed,
quaintly carved, and with hangings of damascene.  At the farther end the deep recess which
faced the ancient door was fitted up as a kind of oratory.  And there were to be seen, besides
the crucifix and the Mass-book, a profusion of small vessels of gold and crystal, containing
the relics, supposed or real, of saint and martyr, treasures which the deposed king had collected
in his palmier days at a sum that, in the minds of his followers, had been better bestowed
on arms and war-steeds.  A young man named Allerton--one of the three gentlemen personally
attached to Henry, to whom Edward had permitted general access, and who, in fact, lodged in
other apartments of the Wakefield Tower, and might be said to share his captivity--was seated
before a table, and following the steps of his musing master, with earnest and watchful eyes.

One of the small spaniels employed in springing game--for Henry, despite his mildness, had
been fond of all the sports of the field-- lay curled round on the floor, but started up, with
a shrill bark, at the entrance of the bearer of the model, while a starling in a cage by the
window, seemingly delighted at the disturbance, flapped his wings, and screamed out, "Bad men!
Bad world!  Poor Henry!"

The captive paused at that cry, and a sad and patient smile of inexpressible melancholy and
sweetness hovered over his lips.  Henry still retained much of the personal comeliness he possessed
at the time when Margaret of Anjou, the theme of minstrel and minne singer, left her native
court of poets for the fatal throne of England.  But beauty, usually so popular and precious
a gift to kings, was not in him of that order which commanded the eye and moved the admiration
of a turbulent people and a haughty chivalry.  The features, if regular, were small; their
expression meek and timid; the form, though tall, was not firm-knit and muscular; the lower
limbs were too thin, the body had too much flesh, the delicate hands betrayed the sickly paleness
of feeble health; there was a dreamy vagueness in the clear soft blue eyes, and a listless
absence of all energy in the habitual bend, the slow, heavy, sauntering tread,--all about that
benevolent aspect, that soft voice, that resigned mien, and gentle manner, spoke the exquisite,
unresisting goodness, which provoked the lewd to taunt, the hardy to despise, the insolent
to rebel; for the foes of a king in stormy times are often less his vices than his virtues.

"And now, good my lord," said Adam, hastening, with eager hands, to assist the bearer in depositing
the model on the table--"now will I explain to you the contrivance which it hath cost me long
years of patient toil to shape from thought into this iron form."

"But first," said Allerton, "were it not well that these good people withdrew?  A contriver
likes not others to learn his secret ere the time hath come to reap its profits."

"Surely, surely!" said Adam, and alarmed at the idea thus suggested, he threw the folds of
his gown over the model.

The attendant bowed and retired; Hugh followed him, but not till he had exchanged a significant
look with Allerton.  As soon as the room was left clear to Adam, the captive, and Master Allerton,
the last rose, and looking hastily round the chamber, approached the mechanician.  "Quick,
sir!" said he, in a whisper, "we are not often left without witnesses."

"Verily," said Adam, who had now forgotten kings and stratagems, plots and counterplots, and
was all absorbed in his invention, "verily, young man, hurry not in this fashion,--I am about
to begin.  Know, my lord," and he turned to Henry, who, with an indolent, dreamy gaze, stood
contemplating the Eureka,--"know that more than a hundred years before the Christian era, one
Hero, an Alexandrian, discovered the force produced by the vapour begot by heat on water. 
That this power was not unknown to the ancient sages, witness the contrivance, not otherwise
to be accounted for, of the heathen oracles; but to our great countryman and predecessor, Roger
Bacon, who first suggested that vehicles might be drawn without steeds or steers, and ships
might--"

"Marry, sir," interrupted Allerton, with great impatience, "it is not to prate to us of such
trivial fables of Man, or such wanton sports of the Foul Fiend, that thou hast risked limb
and life.  Time is precious.  I have been prevised that thou hast letters for King Henry; produce
them, quick!"

A deep glow of indignation had overspread the enthusiast's face at the commencement of this
address; but the close reminded him, in truth, of his errand.

"Hot youth," said he, with dignity, "a future age may judge differently of what thou deemest
trivial fables, and may rate high this poor invention when the brawls of York and Lancaster
are forgotten."

"Hear him," said Henry, with a soft smile, and laying his hand on the shoulder of the young
man, who was about to utter a passionate and scornful retort,--"hear him,  sir.  Have I not
often and ever said this same thing to thee?  We children of a day imagine our contests are
the sole things that move the world.  Alack! our fathers thought the same; and they and their
turmoils sleep forgotten!  Nay, Master Warner,"--for here Adam, poor man, awed by Henry's mildness
into shame at his discourteous vaunting, began to apologize,--"nay, sir, nay-- thou art right
to contemn our bloody and futile struggles for a crown of thorns; for--"  They are also given,
with little alteration, to the unhappy king by Baldwin, in his tragedy of "King Henry VI."]

"And yet, sir, believe me, thou hast no cause for vain glory in thine own craft and labours;
for to wit and to lere there are the same vanity and vexation of spirit as to war and empire.
Only, O would-be wise man, only when we muse on Heaven do our souls ascend from the fowler's
snare!"

"My saint-like liege," said Allerton, bowing low, and with tears in his eyes, "thinkest thou
not that thy very disdain of thy rights makes thee more worthy of them?  If not for thine,
for thy son's sake, remember that the usurper sits on the throne of the conqueror of Agincourt!--Sir
Clerk, the letters."

Adam, already anxious to retrieve the error of his first forgetfulness, here, after a moment's
struggle for the necessary remembrance, drew the papers from the labyrinthine receptacle which
concealed them; and Henry uttered an exclamation of joy as, after cutting the silk, his eye
glanced over the writing--

"My Margaret! my wife!"  Presently he grew pale, and his hands trembled.  "Saints defend her!
Saints defend her!  She is here, disguised, in London!"

"Margaret! our hero-queen! the manlike woman!" exclaimed Allerton, clasping his hands.  "Then
be sure that--"  He stopped, and abruptly taking Adam's arm, drew him aside, while Henry continued
to read-- "Master Warner, we may trust thee,--thou art one of us; thou art sent here, I know;
by Robin of Redesdale,--we may trust thee?"

"Young sir," replied the philosopher, gravely, "the fears and hopes of power are not amidst
the uneasier passions of the student's mind.  I pledged myself but to bear these papers hither,
and to return with what may be sent back."

"But thou didst this for love of the cause, the truth, and the right?"

"I did it partly from Hilyard's tale of wrong, but partly, also, for the gold," answered Adam,
simply; and his noble air, his high brow, the serene calm of his features, so contrasted with
the meanness implied in the latter words of his confession, that Allerton stared at him amazed,
and without reply.

Meanwhile Henry had concluded the letter, and with a heavy sigh glanced over the papers that
accompanied it.  "Alack! alack! more turbulence, more danger and disquiet, more of my people's
blood!"  He motioned to the young man, and drawing him to the window, while Adam returned to
his model, put the papers in his hand.  "Allerton," he said, "thou lovest me, but thou art
one of the few in this distraught land who love also God.  Thou art not one of the warriors,
the men of steel.  Counsel me.  See: Margaret demands my signature to these papers; the one,
empowering and craving the levy of men and arms in the northern counties; the other, promising
free pardon to all who will desert Edward; the third--it seemeth to me more strange and less
kinglike than the others--undertaking to abolish all the imposts and all the laws that press
upon the commons, and (is this a holy and pious stipulation?) to inquire into the exactions
and persecutions of the priesthood of our Holy Church!"

"Sire!" said the young man, after he had hastily perused the papers, "my lady liege showeth
good argument for your assent to two, at least, of these undertakings.  See the names of fifty
gentlemen ready to take arms in your cause if authorized by your royal warrant.  The men of
the North are malcontent with the usurper, but they will not yet stir, unless at your own command.
Such documents will, of course, be used with discretion, and not to imperil your Grace's safety."

"My safety!" said Henry, with a flash of his father's hero soul in his eyes--"of that I think
not!  If I have small courage to attack, I have some fortitude to bear.  But three months after
these be signed, how many brave hearts will be still! how many stout hands be dust!  O Margaret!
Margaret! why temptest thou?  Wert thou so happy when a queen?"  The prisoner broke from Allerton's
arm, and walked, in great disorder and irresolution, to and fro the chamber; and strange it
was to see the contrast between himself and Warner,--both in so much alike, both so purely
creatures out of the common world, so gentle, abstract, so utterly living in the life apart:
and now the student so calm, the prince so disturbed!  The contrast struck Henry himself! 
He paused abruptly, and, folding his arms, contemplated the philosopher, as, with an affectionate
complacency, Adam played and toyed, as it were, with his beloved model; now opening and shutting
again its doors, now brushing away with his sleeve some particles of dust that had settled
on it, now retiring a few paces to gaze the better on its stern symmetry.

"Oh, my Allerton!" cried Henry, "behold! the kingdom a man makes out of his own mind is the
only one that it delighteth man to govern! Behold, he is lord over its springs and movements;
its wheels revolve and stop at his bidding.  Here, here, alone, God never asketh the ruler,
'Why was the blood of thousands poured forth like water, that a worm might wear a crown?'"

"Sire," said Allerton, solemnly, "when our Heavenly King appoints his anointed representative
on earth, He gives to that human delegate no power to resign the ambassade and trust. What
suicide is to a man, abdication is to a king!  How canst thou dispose of thy son's rights?
And what becomes of those rights if thou wilt prefer for him the exile, for thyself the prison,
when one effort may restore a throne!"

Henry seemed struck by a tone of argument that suited both his own mind and the reasoning of
the age.  He gazed a moment on the face of the young man, muttered to himself, and suddenly
moving to the table, signed the papers, and restored them to Adam, who mechanically replaced
them in their iron hiding-place.

"Now begone, Sir!" whispered Allerton, afraid that Henry's mind might again change.

"Will not my lord examine the engine?" asked Warner, half- beseechingly.

"Not to-day!  See, he has already retired to his oratory, he is in prayer!" and, going to the
door, Allerton summoned the attendants in waiting to carry down the model.

"Well, well, patience, patience! thou shalt have thine audience at last," muttered Adam, as
he retired from the room, his eyes fixed upon the neglected infant of his brain.

At the outer door of the Tower by which he had entered, the philosopher was accosted by Catesby,--a
man who, in imitation of his young patron, exhibited the soft and oily manner which concealed
intense ambition and innate ferocity.

"Worshipful my master," said he, bowing low, but with a half sneer on his lips, "the king and
his Highness the Duke of Gloucester have heard much of your strange skill, and command me to
lead you to their presence.  Follow, sir, and you, my men, convey this quaint contrivance to
the king's apartments."

With this, not waiting for any reply, Catesby strode on.  Hugh's face fell; he turned very
pale, and, imagining himself unobserved, turned round to slink away.  But Catesby, who seemed
to have eyes at the back of his head, called out, in a mild tone,--

"Good fellow, help to bear the mechanical--you, too, may be needed."

"Cog's wounds!" muttered Hugh, "an' I had but known what it was to set my foot in a king's
palace!  Such walking may do for the silken shoon, but the hobnail always gets into a hobble."
With that, affecting a cheerful mien, he helped to replace the model on the mule.

Meanwhile, Adam, elated, poor man! at the flattery of the royal mandate, persuaded that his
fame had reached Edward's ears, and chafed at the little heed paid by the pious Henry to his
great work, stalked on, his head in the air.  "Verily," mused the student, "King Edward may
have been a cruel youth, and over hasty; it is horrible to think of Robert Hilyard's calamities!
But men do say he hath an acute and masterly comprehension.  Doubtless, he will perceive at
a glance how much I can advantage his kingdom."  With this, we grieve to say, selfish reflection--which,
if the thought of his model could have slept a while, Adam would have blushed to recall, as
an affront to Hilyard's wrongs--the philosopher followed Catesby across the spacious yard,
along a narrow passage, and up a winding turret-stair, to a room in the third story, which
opened at one door into the king's closet, at the other into the spacious gallery, which was
already a feature in the plan of the more princely houses.  In another minute Adam and his
model were in the presence of the king.  The part of the room in which Edward sat was distinguished
from the rest by a small eastern carpet on the floor (a luxury more in use in the palaces of
that day than it appears to have been a century later); [see the Narrative of the Lord Grauthuse,
before referred to] a table was set before him, on which the model was placed.  At his right
hand sat Jacquetta, Duchess of Bedford, the queen's mother; at his left, Prince Richard.  The
duchess, though not without the remains of beauty, had a stern, haughty, scornful expression
in her sharp aquiline features, compressed lips, and imperious eye.  The paleness of her complexion,
and the careworn, anxious lines of her countenance, were ascribed by the vulgar to studies
of no holy cast. Her reputation for sorcery and witchcraft was daily increasing, and served
well the purpose of the discontented barons, whom the rise of her children mortified and enraged.

"Approach, Master--What say you his name is, Richard?"

"Adam Warner," replied the sweet voice of the Duke of Gloucester; "of excellent skill in the
mathematics."

"Approach, sir, and show us the nature of this notable invention."

"I desire nothing better, my lord king," said Adam, boldly; "but first let me crave a small
modicum of fuel.  Fire, which is the life of the world, as the wise of old held it, is also
the soul of this, my mechanical."

"Peradventure," whispered the duchess, "the wizard desireth to consume us."

"More likely," replied Richard, in the same undertone, "to consume whatever of treasonable
nature may lurk concealed in his engine."

"True," said Edward, and then, speaking aloud, "Master Warner," he added, "put thy puppet to
its purpose without fire,--we will it."

"It is impossible, my lord," said Adam, with a lofty smile.  "Science and nature are more powerful
than a king's word."

"Do not say that in public, my friend," said Edward, dryly, "or we must hang thee!  I would
not my subjects were told anything so treasonable.  Howbeit, to give thee no excuse in failure,
thou shalt have what thou needest."

"But surely not in our presence," exclaimed the duchess.  "This may be a device of the Lancastrians
for our perdition."

"As you please, belle mere," said Edward, and he motioned to a gentleman, who stood a few paces
behind his chair, and who, from the entrance of the mechanician, had seemed to observe him
with intense interest. "Master Nevile, attend this wise man; supply his wants, and hark, in
thy ear, watch well that he abstract nothing from the womb of his engine; observe what he doeth;
be all eyes."  Marmaduke bowed low to conceal his change of countenance, and, stepping forward,
made a sign to Adam to follow him.

"Go also, Catesby," said Richard to his follower, who had taken his post near him, "and clear
the chamber."

As soon as the three members of the royal family were left alone, the king, stretching himself,
with a slight yawn, observed, "This man looks not like a conspirator, brother Richard, though
his sententiary as to nature and science lacked loyalty and respect."

"Sire and brother," answered Richard, "great leaders often dupe their own tools; at least,
meseemeth that they would reason well so to do. Remember, I have told thee that there is strong
cause to suppose Margaret to be in London.  In the suburbs of the city has also appeared, within
the last few weeks, that strange and dangerous person, whose very objects are a mystery, save
that he is our foe,-- Robin of Redesdale.  The men of the North have exhibited a spirit of
insurrection; a man of that country attends this reputed wizard, and he himself was favoured
in past times by Henry of Windsor.  These are ominous signs when the conjunctions be considered!"

"It is well said; but a fair day for breathing our palfrey is half- spent!" returned the indolent
prince.  "By'r Lady!  I like the fashion of thy super-tunic well, Richard; but thou hast it
too much puffed over the shoulders."

Richard's dark eye shot fire, and he gnawed his lip as he answered, "God hath not given to
me the fair shape of my kinsmen."

"Thy pardon, dear boy," said Edward, kindly; "yet little needest thou our broad backs and strong
sinews, for thou hast a tongue to charm women and a wit to command men."

Richard bowed his face, little less beautiful than his brother's, though wholly different from
it in feature, for Edward had the long oval countenance, the fair hair, the rich colouring,
and the large outline of his mother, the Rose of Raby.  Richard, on the contrary, had the short
face, the dark brown locks, and the pale olive complexion of his father, whom he alone of the
royal brothers strikingly resembled.  [Pol. Virg. 544.]

The cheeks, too, were somewhat sunken, and already, though scarcely past childhood, about his
lips were seen the lines of thoughtful manhood.  But then those small features, delicately
aquiline, were so regular; that dark eye was so deep, so fathomless in its bright, musing intelligence;
that quivering lip was at once so beautifully formed and so expressive of intellectual subtlety
and haughty will; and that pale forehead was so massive, high, and majestic,--that when, at
a later period, the Scottish prelate [Archibald Quhitlaw.--"Faciem tuam summo imperio principatu
dignam inspicit, quam moralis et heroica, virtus illustrat," etc.--We need scarcely observe
that even a Scotchman would not have risked a public compliment to Richard's face, if so inappropriate
as to seem a sarcasm, especially as the orator immediately proceeds to notice the shortness
of Richard's stature,--a comment not likely to have been peculiarly acceptable in the Rous
Roll, the portrait of Richard represents him as undersized, but compactly and strongly built,
and without any sign of deformity, unless the inelegant defect of a short neck can be so called.]
commended Richard's "princely countenance," the compliment was not one to be disputed, much
less contemned.  But now as he rose, obedient to a whisper from the duchess, and followed her
to the window, while Edward appeared engaged in admiring the shape of his own long, upturned
shoes, those defects in his shape which the popular hatred and the rise of the House of Tudor
exaggerated into the absolute deformity that the unexamining ignorance of modern days and Shakspeare's
fiery tragedy have fixed into established caricature, were sufficiently apparent.  Deformed
or hunchbacked we need scarcely say he was not, for no man so disfigured could have possessed
that great personal strength which he invariably exhibited in battle, despite the comparative
slightness of his frame.  He was considerably below the ordinary height, which the great stature
of his brother rendered yet more disadvantageous by contrast; but his lower limbs were strong-jointed
and muscular.  Though the back was not curved, yet one shoulder was slightly higher than the
other, which was the more observable from the evident pains that he took to disguise it, and
the gorgeous splendour, savouring of personal coxcombry--from which no Plantagenet was ever
free,--that he exhibited in his dress.  And as, in a warlike age, the physical conformation
of men is always critically regarded, so this defect and that of his low stature were not so
much redeemed as they would be in our day by the beauty and intelligence of his face.  Added
to this, his neck was short, and a habit of bending his head on his bosom (arising either from
thought, or the affectation of humility, which was a part of his character) made it seem shorter
still.  But this peculiarity, while taking from the grace, added to the strength of his frame,
which, spare, sinewy, and compact, showed to an observer that power of endurance, that combination
of solid stubbornness and active energy, which, at the battle of Barnet, made him no less formidable
to encounter than the ruthless sword of the mighty Edward.

"So, prince," said the duchess, "this new gentleman of the king's is, it seems, a Nevile. 
When will Edward's high spirit cast off that hateful yoke?"

Richard sighed and shook his head.  The duchess, encouraged by these signs of sympathy, continued,--

"Your brother Clarence, Prince Richard, despises us, to cringe to the proud earl.  But you--"

"I am not suitor to the Lady Isabel; Clarence is overlavish, and Isabel has a fair face and
a queenly dowry."

"May I perish," said the duchess, "ere Warwick's daughter wears the baudekin of royalty, and
sits in as high a state as the queen's mother!  Prince, I would fain confer with thee; we have
a project to abase and banish this hateful lord.  If you but join us, success is sure; the
Count of Charolois--"

"Dear lady," interrupted Richard, with an air of profound humility, "tell me nothing of plot
or project; my years are too few for such high and subtle policy; and the Lord Warwick hath
been a leal friend to our House of York."

The duchess bit her lip--"Yet I have heard you tell Edward that a subject can be too powerful?"

"Never, lady! you have never heard me."

"Then Edward has told Elizabeth that you so spoke."

"Ah," said Richard, turning away with a smile, "I see that the king's conscience hath a discreet
keeper.  Pardon me, Edward, now that he hath sufficiently surveyed his shoon, must marvel at
this prolonged colloquy.  And see, the door opens."

With this, the duke slowly moved to the table, and resumed his seat.

Marmaduke, full of fear for his ancient host, had in vain sought an opportunity to address
a few words of exhortation to him to forbear all necromancy, and to abstain from all perilous
distinctions between the power of Edward IV. and that of his damnable Nature and Science; but
Catesby watched him with so feline a vigilance, that he was unable to slip in more than--"Ah,
Master Warner, for our blessed Lord's sake, recollect that rack and cord are more than mere
words here!"  To the which pleasant remark, Adam, then busy in filling his miniature boiler,
only replied by a wistful stare, not in the least recognizing the Nevile in his fine attire,
and the new-fashioned mode of dressing his long hair.

But Catesby watched in vain for the abstraction of any treasonable contents in the engine,
which the Duke of Gloucester had so shrewdly suspected.  The truth must be told.  Adam had
entirely forgotten that in the intricacies of his mechanical lurked the papers that might overthrow
a throne!  Magnificent Incarnation was he (in that oblivion) of Science itself, which cares
not a jot for men and nations, in their ephemeral existences; which only remembers THINGS,--things
that endure for ages; and in its stupendous calculations loses sight of the unit of a generation!
No, he had thoroughly forgotten Henry, Edward, his own limbs and life,--not only York and Lancaster,
but Adam Warner and the rack.  Grand in his forgetfulness, he stood before the tiger and the
tiger-cat,--Edward and--Richard,--A Pure Thought, a Man's Soul; Science fearless in the presence
of Cruelty, Tyranny, Craft, and Power.

In truth, now that Adam was thoroughly in his own sphere, was in the domain of which he was
king, and those beings in velvet and ermine were but as ignorant savages admitted to the frontier
of his realm, his form seemed to dilate into a majesty the beholders had not before recognized;
and even the lazy Edward muttered involuntarily, "By my halidame, the man has a noble presence!"

"I am prepared now, sire," said Adam, loftily, "to show to my king and to this court, that,
unnoticed and obscure, in study and retreat, often live those men whom kings may be proud to
call their subjects. Will it please you, my lords, this way!" and he motioned so commandingly
to the room in which he had left the Eureka, that his audience rose by a common impulse, and
in another minute stood grouped round the model in the adjoining chamber.  This really wonderful
invention--so wonderful, indeed, that it will surpass the faith of those who do not pause to
consider what vast forestallments of modern science have been made and lost in the darkness
of ages not fitted to receive them--was, doubtless, in many important details not yet adapted
for the practical uses to which Adam designed its application. But as a mere model, as a marvellous
essay, for the suggestion of gigantic results, it was, perhaps, to the full as effective as
the ingenuity of a mechanic of our own day could construct.  It is true that it was crowded
with unnecessary cylinders, slides, cocks, and wheals--hideous and clumsy to the eye--but through
this intricacy the great simple design accomplished its main object.  It contrived to show
what force and skill man can obtain from the alliance of nature; the more clearly, inasmuch
as the mechanism affixed to it, still more ingenious than itself, was well calculated to illustrate
practically one of the many uses to which the principle was destined to be applied.

Adam had not yet fathomed the secret by which to supply the miniature cylinder with sufficient
steam for any prolonged effect,--the great truth of latent heat was unknown to him; but he
had contrived to regulate the supply of water so as to make the engine discharge its duties
sufficiently for the satisfaction of curiosity and the explanation of its objects.  And now
this strange thing of iron was in full life.  From its serpent chimney issued the thick rapid
smoke, and the groan of its travail was heard within.

"And what propose you to yourself and to the kingdom in all this, Master Adam?" asked Edward,
curiously bending his tall person over the tortured iron.

"I propose to make Nature the labourer of man," answered Warner. "When I was a child of some
eight years old, I observed that water swelleth into vapour when fire is applied to it.  Twelve
years afterwards, at the age of twenty, I observed that while undergoing this change it exerts
a mighty mechanical force.  At twenty-five, constantly musing, I said, 'Why should not that
force become subject to man's art?'  I then began the first rude model, of which this is the
descendant.  I noticed that the vapour so produced is elastic,-- that is, that as it expands,
it presses against what opposes it; it has a force applicable everywhere force is needed by
man's labour. Behold a second agency of gigantic resources!  And then, still studying this,
I perceived that the vapour thus produced can be reconverted into water, shrinking necessarily,
while so retransformed, from the space it filled as vapour, and leaving that space a vacuum.
But Nature abhors a vacuum; produce a vacuum, and the bodies that surround rush into it.  Thus,
the vapour again, while changing back into water, becomes also a force,--our agent.  And all
the while these truths were shaping themselves to my mind, I was devising and improving also
the material form by which I might render them useful to man; so at last, out of these truths,
arose this invention!"

"Pardie," said Edward, with the haste natural to royalty, "what in common there can be between
thy jargon of smoke and water and this huge ugliness of iron passeth all understanding.  But
spare us thy speeches, and on to thy puppet-show."

Adam stared a moment at the king in the surprise that one full of his subject feels when he
sees it impossible to make another understand it, sighed, shook his head, and prepared to begin.

"Observe," he said, "that there is no juggling, no deceit.  I will place in this deposit this
small lump of brass--would the size of this toy would admit of larger experiment!  I will then
pray ye to note, as I open door after door, how the metal passes through various changes, all
operated by this one agency of vapour.  Heed and attend.  And if the crowning work please thee,
think, great king, what such an agency upon the large scale would be to thee; think how it
would multiply all arts and lessen all labour; think that thou hast, in this, achieved for
a whole people the true philosopher's stone.  Now note!"

He placed the rough ore in its receptacle, and suddenly it seemed seized by a vice within,
and vanished.  He proceeded then, while dexterously attending to the complex movements, to
open door after door, to show the astonished spectators the rapid transitions the metal underwent,
and suddenly, in the midst of his pride, he stopped short, for, like a lightning-flash, came
across his mind the remembrance of the fatal papers.  Within the next door he was to open,
they lay concealed.  His change of countenance did not escape Richard, and he noted the door
which Adam forbore to open, as the student hurriedly, and with some presence of mind, passed
to the next, in which the metal was shortly to appear.

"Open this door," said the prince, pointing to the handle.  "No! forbear!  There is danger!
forbear!" exclaimed the mechanician.

"Danger to thine own neck, varlet and impostor!" exclaimed the duke; and he was about himself
to open the door, when suddenly a loud roar, a terrific explosion was heard.  Alas! Adam Warner
had not yet discovered for his engine what we now call the safety-valve.  The steam contained
in the miniature boiler had acquired an undue pressure; Adam's attention had been too much
engrossed to notice the signs of the growing increase, and the rest may be easily conceived.
Nothing could equal the stupor and the horror of the spectators at this explosion, save only
the boy-duke, who remained immovable, and still frowning.  All rushed to the door, huddling
one on the other, scarcely knowing what next was to befall them, but certain that the wizard
was bent upon their destruction.  Edward was the first to recover himself; and seeing that
no lives were lost, his first impulse was that of ungovernable rage.

"Foul traitor!" he exclaimed, "was it for this that thou hast pretended to beguile us with
thy damnable sorceries?  Seize him!  Away to the Tower Hill! and let the priest patter an ave
while the doomsman knots the rope."

Not a hand stirred; even Catesby would as lief have touched the king's lion before meals, as
that poor mechanician, standing aghast, and unheeding all, beside his mutilated engine.

"Master Nevile," said the king, sternly, "dost thou hear us?

"Verily," muttered the Nevile, approaching very slowly, "I knew what would happen; but to lay
hands on my host, an' he were fifty times a wizard--No!  My liege," he said in a firm tone,
but falling on his knee, and his gallant countenance pale with generous terror, "my liege,
forgive me.  This man succoured me when struck down and wounded by a Lancastrian ruffian; this
man gave me shelter, food, and healing. Command me not, O gracious my lord, to aid in taking
the life of one to whom I owe my own."

"His life!" exclaimed the Duchess of Bedford,--"the life of this most illustrious person! 
Sire, you do not dream it!"

"Heh! by the saints, what now?" cried the king, whose choler, though fierce and ruthless, was
as short-lived as the passions of the indolent usually are, and whom the earnest interposition
of his mother-in-law much surprised and diverted.  "If, fair belle-mere, thou thinkest it so
illustrious a deed to frighten us out of our mortal senses, and narrowly to 'scape sending
us across the river like a bevy of balls from a bombard, there is no disputing of tastes. 
Rise up, Master Nevile, we esteem thee not less for thy boldness; ever be the host and the
benefactor revered by English gentlemen and Christian youth.  Master Warner may go free."

Here Warner uttered so deep and hollow a groan, that it startled all present.

"Twenty-five years of labour, and not to have seen this!" he ejaculated.  "Twenty and five
years, and all wasted!  How repair this disaster?  O fatal day!"

"What says he?  What means he?" said Jacquetta.

"Come home!--home!" said Marmaduke, approaching the philosopher, in great alarm lest he should
once more jeopardize his life.  But Adam, shaking him off, began eagerly, and with tremulous
hands, to examine the machine, and not perceiving any mode by which to guard in future against
a danger that he saw at once would, if not removed, render his invention useless, tottered
to a chair and covered his face with his hands.

"He seemeth mightily grieved that our bones are still whole!" muttered Edward.  "And why, belle-mere
mine, wouldst thou protect this pleasant tregetour?"

"What!" said the duchess, "see you not that a man capable of such devices must be of doughty
service against our foes?"

"Not I.  How?"

"Why, if merely to signify his displeasure at our young Richard's over-curious meddling, he
can cause this strange engine to shake the walls,--nay, to destroy itself,--think what he might
do were his power and malice at our disposing.  I know something of these nigromancers."

"And would you knew less! for already the commons murmur at your favour to them.  But be it
as you will.  And now--ho, there! let our steeds be caparisoned."

"You forget, sire," said Richard, who had hitherto silently watched the various parties, "the
object for which we summoned this worthy man.  Please you now, sir, to open that door."

"No, no!" exclaimed the king, hastily, "I will have no more provoking the foul fiend; conspirator
or not, I have had enough of Master Warner.  Pah!  My poor placard is turned lampblack.  Sweet
mother-in- law, take him under thy protection; and Richard, come with me."

So saying, the king linked his arm in that of the reluctant Gloucester, and quitted the room.
The duchess then ordered the rest also to depart, and was left alone with the crest-fallen
philosopher.

Adam, utterly unheeding, or rather deaf to, the discussion that had taken place, and his narrow
escape from cord and gibbet, lifted his head peevishly from his bosom, as the duchess rested
her hand almost caressingly on his shoulder, and thus addressed him,--

"Most puissant Sir, think not that I am one of those who, in their ignorance and folly, slight
the mysteries of which thou art clearly so great a master.  When I heard thee speak of subjecting
Nature to Man, I at once comprehended thee, and blushed for the dulness of my kindred."

"Ah, lady, thou hast studied, then, the mathematics.  Alack! this is a grievous blow; but it
is no inherent fault in the device.  I am clearly of mind that it can be remedied.  But oh!
what time, what thought, what sleepless nights, what gold will be needed!"

"Give me thy sleepless nights and thy grand thoughts, and thou shalt not want gold."

"Lady," cried Adam, starting to his feet, "do I hear aright?  Art thou, in truth, the patron
I have so long dreamed of?  Hast thou the brain and the heart to aid the pursuits of science?"

"Ay! and the power to protect the students!  Sage, I am the Duchess of Bedford, whom men accuse
of witchcraft,--as thee of wizardy.  From the wife of a private gentleman, I have become the
mother of a queen.  I stand amidst a court full of foes; I desire gold to corrupt, and wisdom
to guard against, and means to destroy them.  And I seek all these in men like thee!"

Adam turned on her his bewildered eyes, and made no answer.

"They tell me," said the duchess, "that Henry of Windsor employed learned men to transmute
the baser metals into gold.  Wert thou one of them?"

"No."

"Thou knowest that art?"

"I studied it in my youth, but the ingredients of the crucible were too costly."

"Thou shalt not lack them with me.  Thou knowest the lore of the stars, and canst foretell
the designs of enemies,--the hour whether to act or to forbear?"

"Astrology I have studied, but that also was in youth; for there dwelleth in the pure mathematics
that have led me to this invention--"

"Truce with that invention, whatever it be; think of it no more,--it has served its end in
the explosion, which proved thy power of mischief.  High objects are now before thee.  Wilt
thou be of my household, one of my alchemists and astrologers?  Thou shalt have leisure, honour,
and all the moneys thou canst need."

"Moneys!" said Adam, eagerly, and casting his eyes upon the mangled model.  "Well, I agree;
what you will,--alchemist, astrologist, wizard,--what you will.  This shall all be repaired,--all;
I begin to see now, all!  I begin to see; yes, if a pipe by which the too- excessive vapour
could--ay, ay!--right, right," and he rubbed his hands.

Jacquetta was struck with his enthusiasm.  "But surely, Master Warner, this has some virtue
you have not vouchsafed to explain; confide in me, can it change iron to gold?"

"No; but--"

"Can it predict the future?"

"No; but--"

"Can it prolong life?"

"No; but--"

"Then, in God's name let us waste no more time about it!" said the duchess, impatiently,--"your
art is mine now.  Ho, there!--I will send my page to conduct thee to thy apartments, and thou
shalt lodge next to Friar Bungey, a man of wondrous lere, Master Warner, and a worthy confrere
in thy researches.  Hast thou any one of kith and kin at home to whom thou wilt announce thy
advancement?"

"Ah, lady!  Heaven forgive me, I have a daughter,--an only child,--my Sibyll; I cannot leave
her alone, and--"

"Well, nothing should distract thy cares from thine art,--she shall be sent for.  I will rank
her amongst my maidens.  Fare-thee-well, Master Warner!  At night I will send for thee, and
appoint the tasks I would have thee accomplish."

So saying, the duchess quitted the room, and left Adam alone, bending over his model in deep
revery.

From this absorption it was the poor man's fate to be again aroused.

The peculiar character of the boy-prince of Gloucester was that of one who, having once seized
upon an object, never willingly relinquished it.  First, he crept and slid and coiled round
it as the snake.  But if craft failed, his passion, roused by resistance, sprang at his prey
with a lion's leap: and whoever examines the career of this extraordinary personage, will perceive,
that whatever might be his habitual hypocrisy, he seemed to lose sight of it wholly when once
resolved upon force.  Then the naked ferocity with which the destructive propensity swept away
the objects in his path becomes fearfully and startlingly apparent, and offers a strange contrast
to the wily duplicity with which, in calmer moments, he seems to have sought to coax the victim
into his folds.  Firmly convinced that Adam's engine had been made the medium of dangerous
and treasonable correspondence with the royal prisoner, and of that suspicious, restless, feverish
temperament which never slept when a fear was wakened, a doubt conceived, he had broke from
his brother, whose more open valour and less unquiet intellect were ever willing to leave the
crown defended but by the gibbet for the detected traitor, the sword for the declared foe;
and obtaining Edward's permission "to inquire further into these strange matters," he sent
at once for the porter who had conveyed the model to the Tower; but that suspicious accomplice
was gone.  The sound of the explosion of the engine had no less startled the guard below than
the spectators above.  Releasing their hold of their prisoner, they had some taken fairly to
their heels, others rushed into the palace to learn what mischief had ensued; and Hugh, with
the quick discretion of his north country, had not lost so favourable an opportunity for escape.
There stood the dozing mule at the door below, but the guide was vanished.  More confirmed
in his suspicions by this disappearance of Adam's companion, Richard, giving some preparatory
orders to Catesby, turned at once to the room which still held the philosopher and his device.
He closed the door on entering, and his brow was dark and sinister as he approached the musing
inmate.  But here we must return to Sibyll.

The old lady looked up from her embroidery-frame, as Sibyll sat musing on a stool before her;
she scanned the maiden with a wistful and somewhat melancholy eye.

"Fair girl," she said, breaking a silence that had lasted for some moments, "it seems to me
that I have seen thy face before.  Wert thou never in Queen Margaret's court?"

"In childhood, yes, lady."

"Do you not remember me, the dame of Longueville?" Sibyll started in surprise, and gazed long
before she recognized the features of her hostess; for the dame of Longueville had been still,
when Sibyll was a child at the court, renowned for matronly beauty, and the change was greater
than the lapse of years could account for.  The lady smiled sadly: "Yes, you marvel to see
me thus bent and faded.  Maiden, I lost my husband at the battle of St. Alban's, and my three
sons in the field of Towton.  My lands and my wealth have been confiscated to enrich new men;
and to one of them--one of the enemies of the only king whom Alice de Longueville will acknowledge--I
owe the food for my board and the roof for my head.  Do you marvel now that I am so changed?"

Sibyll rose and kissed the lady's hand, and the tear that sparkled on its surface was her only
answer.

"I learn," said the dame of Longueville, "that your father has an order from the Lord Hastings
to see King Henry.  I trust that he will rest here as he returns, to tell me how the monarch-saint
bears his afflictions.  But I know: his example should console us all."  She paused a moment,
and resumed, "Sees your father much of the Lord Hastings?"

"He never saw him that I weet of," answered Sibyll, blushing; "the order was given, but as
of usual form to a learned scholar."

"But given to whom?" persisted the lady.  "To--to me," replied Sibyll, falteringly.  The dame
of Longueville smiled.

"Ah, Hastings could scarcely say no to a prayer from such rosy lips. But let me not imply aught
to disparage his humane and gracious heart. To Lord Hastings, next to God and his saints, I
owe all that is left to me on earth.  Strange that he is not yet here!  This is the usual day
and hour on which he comes, from pomp and pleasurement, to visit the lonely widow."  And, pleased
to find an attentive listener to her grateful loquacity, the dame then proceeded, with warm
eulogies upon her protector, to inform Sibyll that her husband had, in the first outbreak of
the Civil War, chanced to capture Hastings, and, moved by his valour and youth, and some old
connections with his father, Sir Leonard, had favoured his escape from the certain death that
awaited him from the wrath of the relentless Margaret.  After the field of Towton, Hastings
had accepted one of the manors confiscated from the attainted House of Longueville, solely
that he might restore it to the widow of the fallen lord; and with a chivalrous consideration,
not contented with beneficence, he omitted no occasion to show to the noblewoman whatever homage
and respect might soothe the pride, which, in the poverty of those who have been great, becomes
disease.  The loyalty of the Lady Longueville was carried to a sentiment most rare in that
day, and rather resembling the devotion inspired by the later Stuarts.  She made her home within
the precincts of the Tower, that, morning and eve, when Henry opened his lattice to greet the
rising and the setting sun, she might catch a dim and distant glance of the captive king, or
animate, by that sad sight, the hopes and courage of the Lancastrian emissaries, to whom, fearless
of danger, she scrupled not to give counsel, and, at need, asylum.

While Sibyll, with enchanted sense, was listening to the praise of Hastings, a low knock at
the door was succeeded by the entrance of that nobleman himself.  Not to Elizabeth, in the
alcoves of Shene, or on the dais of the palace hall, did the graceful courtier bend with more
respectful reverence than to the powerless widow, whose very bread was his alms; for the true
high-breeding of chivalry exists not without delicacy of feeling, formed originally by warmth
of heart; and though the warmth may lose its glow, the delicacy endures, as the steel that
acquires through heat its polish retains its lustre, even when the shine but betrays the hardness.

"And how fares my noble lady of Longueville?  But need I ask? for her cheek still wears the
rose of Lancaster.  A companion?  Ha!  Mistress Warner, I learn now how much pleasure exists
in surprise!"

"My young visitor," said the dame, "is but an old friend; she was one of the child-maidens
reared at the court of Queen Margaret."

"In sooth!" exclaimed Hastings; and then, in an altered tone, he added, "but I should have
guessed so much grace had not come all from Nature.  And your father has gone to see the Lord
Henry, and you rest, here, his return?  Ah, noble lady, may you harbour always such innocent
Lancastrians!"  The fascinations of this eminent person's voice and manner were such that they
soon restored Sibyll, to the ease she had lost at his sudden entrance.  He conversed gayly
with the old dame upon such matters of court anecdote as in all the changes of state were still
welcome to one so long accustomed to court air; but from time to time he addressed himself
to Sibyll, and provoked replies which startled herself--for she was not yet well aware of her
own gifts--by their spirit and intelligence.

"You do not tell us," said the Lady Longueville, sarcastically, "of the happy spousailles of
Elizabeth's brother with the Duchess of Norfolk,--a bachelor of twenty, a bride of some eighty-two.
[The old chronicler justly calls this a "diabolical marriage."  It greatly roused the wrath
of the nobles and indeed of all honourable men, as a proof of the shameless avarice of the
queen's family.]  Verily, these alliances are new things in the history of English royalty.
But when Edward, who, even if not a rightful king, is at least a born Plantagenet, condescended
to marry Mistress Elizabeth, a born Woodville, scarce of good gentleman's blood, naught else
seems strange enough to provoke marvel."

"As to the last matter," returned Hastings, gravely, "though her grace the queen be no warm
friend to me, I must needs become her champion and the king's.  The lady who refused the dishonouring
suit of the fairest prince and the boldest knight in the Christian world thereby made herself
worthy of the suit that honoured her; it was not Elizabeth Woodville alone that won the purple.
On the day she mounted a throne, the chastity of woman herself was crowned."

"What!" said the Lady Longueville, angrily, "mean you to say that there is no disgrace in the
mal-alliance of kite and falcon, of Plantagenet and Woodville, of high-born and mud-descended?"

"You forget, lady, that the widow of Henry the Fifth, Catherine of Valois, a king's daughter,
married the Welsh soldier, Owen Tudor; that all England teems with brave men born from similar
spousailles, where love has levelled all distinctions, and made a purer hearth, and raised
a bolder offspring, than the lukewarm likings of hearts that beat but for lands and gold. 
Wherefore, lady, appeal not to me, a squire of dames, a believer in the old Parliament of Love;
whoever is fair and chaste, gentle and loving, is, in the eyes of William de Hastings, the
mate and equal of a king!"

Sibyll turned involuntarily as the courtier spoke thus, with animation in his voice, and fire
in his eyes; she turned, and her breath came quick; she turned, and her look met his, and those
words and that look sank deep into her heart; they called forth brilliant and ambitious dreams;
they rooted the growing love, but they aided to make it holy; they gave to the delicious fancy
what before it had not paused, on its wing, to sigh for; they gave it that without which all
fancy sooner or later dies; they gave it that which, once received in a noble heart, is the
excuse for untiring faith; they gave it,--HOPE!

"And thou wouldst say," replied the lady of Longueville, with a meaning smile, still more emphatically--"thou
wouldst say that a youth, brave and well nurtured, ambitious and loving, ought, in the eyes
of rank and pride, to be the mate and equal of--"

"Ah, noble dame," interrupted Hastings, quickly, "I must not prolong encounter with so sharp
a wit.  Let me leave that answer to this fair maiden, for by rights it is a challenge to her
sex, not to mine."

"How say you, then, Mistress Warner?" said the dame.  "Suppose a young heiress, of the loftiest
birth, of the broadest lands, of the comeliest form--suppose her wooed by a gentleman poor
and stationless, but with a mighty soul, born to achieve greatness, would she lower herself
by hearkening to his suit?"

"A maiden, methinks," answered Sibyll, with reluctant but charming hesitation, "cannot love
truly if she love unworthily; and if she love worthily, it is not rank nor wealth she loves."

"But her parents, sweet mistress, may deem differently; and should not her love refuse submission
to their tyranny?" asked Hastings.

"Nay, good my lord, nay," returned Sibyll, shaking her head with thoughtful demureness.  "Surely
the wooer, if he love worthily, will not press her to the curse of a child's disobedience and
a parent's wrath!"

"Shrewdly answered," said the dame of Longueville.  "Then she would renounce the poor gentleman
if the parent ordain her to marry a rich lord.  Ah, you hesitate, for a woman's ambition is
pleased with the excuse of a child's obedience."

Hastings said this so bitterly that Sibyll could not but perceive that some personal feeling
gave significance to his words.  Yet how could they be applied to him,--to one now in rank
and repute equal to the highest below the throne?

"If the demoiselle should so choose," said the dame of Longueville, "it seemeth to me that
the rejected suitor might find it facile to disdain and to forget."

Hastings made no reply; but that remarkable and deep shade of melancholy which sometimes in
his gayest hours startled those who beheld it, and which had, perhaps, induced many of the
prophecies that circulated as to the untimely and violent death that should close his bright
career, gathered like a cloud over his brow.  At this moment the door opened gently, and Robert
Hilyard stood at the aperture.  He was clad in the dress of a friar, but the raised cowl showed
his features to the lady of Longueville, to whom alone he was visible; and those bold features
were literally haggard with agitation and alarm. He lifted his finger to his lips, and motioning
the lady to follow him, closed the door.

The dame of Longueville rose, and praying her visitors to excuse her absence for a few moments,
she left Hastings and Sibyll to themselves.

"Lady," said Hilyard, in a hollow whisper, as soon as the dame appeared in the low hall, communicating
on the one hand with the room just left, on the other with the street, "I fear all will be
detected. Hush!  Adam and the iron coffer that contains the precious papers have been conducted
to Edward's presence.  A terrible explosion, possibly connected with the contrivance, caused
such confusion among the guards that Hugh escaped to scare me with his news.  Stationed near
the gate in this disguise, I ventured to enter the courtyard, and saw--saw--the TORMENTOR!
the torturer, the hideous, masked minister of agony, led towards the chambers in which our
hapless messenger is examined by the ruthless tyrants.  Gloucester, the lynx-eyed mannikin,
is there!"

"O Margaret, my queen," exclaimed the lady of Longueville, "the papers will reveal her whereabout."

"No, she is safe!" returned Hilyard; "but thy poor scholar, I tremble for him, and for the
heads of all whom the papers name."

"What can be done!  Ha!  Lord Hastings is here,--he is ever humane and pitiful.  Dare we confide
in him?"

A bright gleam shot over Hilyard's face.  "Yes, yes; let me confer with him alone.  I wait
him here,--quick!"  The lady hastened back. Hastings was conversing in a low voice with Sibyll.
The dame of Longueville whispered in the courtier's ear, drew him into the hall, and left him
alone with the false friar, who had drawn the cowl over his face.

"Lord Hastings," said Hilyard, speaking rapidly, "you are in danger, if not of loss of life,
of loss of favour.  You gave a passport to one Warner to see the ex-king Henry.  Warner's simplicity
(for he is innocent) hath been duped,--he is made the bearer of secret intelligence from the
unhappy gentlemen who still cling to the Lancaster cause.  He is suspected, he is examined;
he may be questioned by the torture.  If the treason be discovered, it was thy hand that signed
the passport; the queen, thou knowest, hates thee, the Woodvilles thirst for thy downfall.
What handle may this give them!  Fly! my lord,--fly to the Tower; thou mayst yet be in time;
thy wit can screen all that may otherwise be bare.  Save this poor scholar, conceal this correspondence.
Hark ye, lord! frown not so haughtily,--that correspondence names thee as one who hast taken
the gold of Count Charolois, and whom, therefore, King Louis may outbuy. Look to thyself!"

A slight blush passed over the pale brow of the great statesman, but he answered with a steady
voice, "Friar or layman, I care not which, the gold of the heir of Burgundy was a gift, not
a bribe.  But I need no threats to save, if not too late, from rack and gibbet the life of
a guiltless man.  I am gone.  Hold! bid the maiden, the scholar's daughter, follow me to the
Tower."

The Duke of Gloucester approached Adam as he stood gazing on his model.  "Old man," said the
prince, touching him with the point of his sheathed dagger, "look up and answer.  What converse
hast thou held with Henry of Windsor, and who commissioned thee to visit him in his confinement?
Speak, and the truth! for by holy Paul, I am one who can detect a lie, and without that door
stands--the Tormentor!"

Upon a pleasing and joyous dream broke these harsh words; for Adam then was full of the contrivance
by which to repair the defect of the engine, and with this suggestion was blent confusedly
the thought that he was now protected by royalty, that he should have means and leisure to
accomplish his great design, that he should have friends whose power could obtain its adoption
by the king.  He raised his eyes, and that young dark face frowned upon him,--the child menacing
the sage, brute force in a pigmy shape, having authority of life and death over the giant strength
of genius.  But these words, which recalled Warner from his existence as philosopher, woke
that of the gentle but brave and honourable man which he was, when reduced to earth.

"Sir," he said gravely, "if I have consented to hold converse with the unhappy, it was not
as the tell-tale and the spier.  I had formal warrant for my visit, and I was solicited to
render it by an early friend and comrade, who sought to be my benefactor in aiding with gold
my poor studies for the king's people."

"Tut!" said Richard, impatiently, and playing with his dagger hilt; "thy words, stealthy and
evasive, prove thy guilt!  Sure am I that this iron traitor with its intricate hollows and
recesses holds what, unless confessed, will give thee to the hangman!  Confess all, and thou
art spared."

"If," said Adam, mildly, "your Highness--for though I know not your quality, I opine that no
one less than royal could so menace--if your Highness imagines that I have been intrusted by
a fallen man, wrong me not by supposing that I could fear death more than dishonour; for certes!"
continued Adam, with innocent pedantry, "to put the case scholastically, and in the logic familiar,
doubtless, to your Highness, either I have something to confess or I have not; if I have--"

"Hound!" interrupted the prince, stamping his foot, "thinkest thou to banter me,--see!" As
his foot shook the floor, the door opened, and a man with his arms bare, covered from head
to foot in a black gown of serge, with his features concealed by a hideous mask, stood ominously
at the aperture.

The prince motioned to the torturer (or tormentor, as he was technically styled) to approach,
which he did noiselessly, till he stood, tall, grim, and lowering, beside Adam, like some silent
and devouring monster by its prey.

"Dost thou repent thy contumacy?  A moment, and I render my questioning to another!"

"Sir," said Adam, drawing himself up, and with so sudden a change of mien, that his loftiness
almost awed even the dauntless Richard,-- "sir, my fathers feared not death when they did battle
for the throne of England; and why?--because in their loyal valour they placed not the interests
of a mortal man, but the cause of imperishable honour! And though their son be a poor scholar,
and wears not the spurs of gold; though his frame be weak and his hairs gray, he loveth honour
also well eno' to look without dread on death!"

Fierce and ruthless, when irritated and opposed, as the prince was, he was still in his first
youth,--ambition had here no motive to harden him into stone.  He was naturally so brave himself
that bravery could not fail to win from him something of respect and sympathy, and he was taken
wholly by surprise in hearing the language of a knight and hero from one whom he had regarded
but as the artful impostor or the despicable intriguer.

He changed countenance as Warner spoke, and remained a moment silent. Then as a thought occurred
to him, at which his features relaxed into a half-smile, he beckoned to the tormentor, said
a word in his ear, and the horrible intruder nodded and withdrew.

"Master Warner," then said the prince, in his customary sweet and gliding tones, "it were a
pity that so gallant a gentleman should be exposed to peril for adhesion to a cause that can
never prosper, and that would be fatal, could it prosper, to our common country.  For look
you, this Margaret, who is now, we believe, in London" (here he examined Adam's countenance,
which evinced surprise), "this Margaret, who is seeking to rekindle the brand and brennen of
civil war, has already sold for base gold to the enemy of the realm, to Louis XI., that very
Calais which your fathers, doubtless, lavished their blood to annex to our possessions.  Shame
on the lewd harlot!  What woman so bloody and so dissolute?  What man so feeble and craven
as her lord?"

"Alas! sir," said Adam, "I am unfitted for these high considerations of state.  I live but
for my art, and in it.  And now, behold how my kingdom is shaken and rent!" he pointed with
so touching a smile, and so simple a sadness, to the broken engine, that Richard was moved.

"Thou lovest this, thy toy?  I can comprehend that love for some dumb thing that we have toiled
for.  Ay!" continued the prince, thoughtfully,--"ay!  I have noted myself in life that there
are objects, senseless as that mould of iron, which if we labour at them wind round our hearts
as if they were flesh and blood.  So some men love learning, others glory, others power.  Well,
man, thou lovest that mechanical?  How many years hast thou been about it?"

"From the first to the last, twenty-five years, and it is still incomplete."

"Um!" said the prince, smiling, "Master Warner, thou hast read of the judgment of Solomon,--how
the wise king discovered the truth by ordering the child's death?"

"It was indeed," said Adam, unsuspectingly, "a most shrewd suggestion of native wit and clerkly
wisdom."

"Glad am I thou approvest it, Master Warner," said Richard.  And as he spoke the tormentor
reappeared with a smith, armed with the implements of his trade.

"Good smith, break into pieces this stubborn iron; bare all its receptacles; leave not one
fragment standing on the other!  'Delenda est tua Carthago,' Master Warner.  There is Latin
in answer to thy logic."

It is impossible to convey any notion of the terror, the rage, the despair, which seized upon
the unhappy sage when these words smote his ear, and he saw the smith's brawny arms swing on
high the ponderous hammer.  He flung himself between the murderous stroke and his beloved model.
He embraced the grim iron tightly.  "Kill me!" he exclaimed sublimely, "kill me!--not my THOUGHT!"

"Solomon was verily and indeed a wise king," said the duke, with a low inward laugh.  "And
now, man, I have thee!  To save thy infant, thine art's hideous infant, confess the whole!"

It was then that a fierce struggle evidently took place in Adam's bosom.  It was, perhaps--O
reader! thou whom pleasure, love, ambition, hatred, avarice, in thine and our ordinary existence,
tempt--it was, perhaps, to him the one arch-temptation of a life.  In the changing countenance,
the heaving breast, the trembling lip, the eyes that closed and opened to close again, as if
to shut out the unworthy weakness,--yea, in the whole physical man,--was seen the crisis of
the moral struggle.  And what, in truth, to him an Edward or a Henry, a Lancaster or a York?
Nothing.  But still that instinct, that principle, that conscience, ever strongest in those
whose eyes are accustomed to the search of truth, prevailed.  So he rose suddenly and quietly,
drew himself apart, left his work to the Destroyer, and said,--

"Prince, thou art a boy!  Let a boy's voice annihilate that which should have served all time.
Strike!"

Richard motioned; the hammer descended, the engine and its appurtenances reeled and crashed,
the doors flew open, the wheels rattled, the sparks flew.  And Adam Warner fell to the ground,
as if the blow had broken his own heart.  Little heeding the insensible victim of his hard
and cunning policy, Richard advanced to the inspection of the interior recesses of the machinery.
But that which promised Adam's destruction saved him.  The heavy stroke had battered in the
receptacle of the documents, had buried them in the layers of iron.  The faithful Eureka, even
amidst its injuries and wrecks, preserved the secret of its master.

The prince, with impatient hands, explored all the apertures yet revealed, and after wasting
many minutes in a fruitless search, was about to bid the smith complete the work of destruction,
when the door suddenly opened and Lord Hastings entered.  His quick eye took in the whole scene;
he arrested the lifted arm of the smith, and passing deliberately to Gloucester, said, with
a profound reverence, but a half-reproachful smile, "My lord! my lord! your Highness is indeed
severe upon my poor scholar."

"Canst thou answer for thy scholar's loyalty?" said the duke, gloomily.

Hastings drew the prince aside, and said, in a low tone, "His loyalty! poor man, I know not;
but his guilelessness, surely, yes.  Look you, sweet prince, I know the interest thou hast
in keeping well with the Earl of Warwick, whom I, in sooth, have slight cause to love.  Thou
hast trusted me with thy young hopes of the Lady Anne; this new Nevile placed about the king,
and whose fortunes Warwick hath made his care, hath, I have reason to think, some love passages
with the scholar's daughter,--the daughter came to me for the passport.  Shall this Marmaduke
Nevile have it to say to his fair kinswoman, with the unforgiving malice of a lover's memory,
that the princely Gloucester stooped to be the torturer of yon poor old man?  If there be treason
in the scholar or in yon battered craft-work, leave the search to me!"

The duke raised his dark, penetrating eyes to those of Hastings, which did not quail; for here
world-genius encountered world-genius, and art, art.

"Thine argument hath more subtlety and circumlocution than suit with simple truth," said the
prince, smiling.  "But it is enough to Richard that Hastings wills protection even to a spy!"

Hastings kissed the duke's hand in silence, and going to the door, he disappeared a moment
and returned with Sibyll.  As she entered, pale and trembling, Adam rose, and the girl with
a wild cry flew to his bosom.

"It is a winsome face, Hastings," said the duke, dryly.  "I pity Master Nevile the lover, and
envy my Lord Chamberlain the protector."

Hastings laughed, for he was well pleased that Richard's suspicion took that turn.

"And now," he said, "I suppose Master Nevile and the Duchess of Bedford's page may enter. 
Your guard stopped them hitherto.  They come for this gentleman from her highness the queen's
mother."

"Enter, Master Nevile, and you, Sir Page.  What is your errand?"

"My lady, the duchess," said the page, "has sent me to conduct Master Warner to the apartments
prepared for him as her special multiplier and alchemist."

"What!" said the prince, who, unlike the irritable Clarence, made it his policy to show all
decorous homage to the queen's kin, "hath that illustrious lady taken this gentleman into her
service?  Why announced you not, Master Warner, what at once had saved you from further questioning?
Lord Hastings, I thank you now for your intercession."

Hastings, in answer, pointed archly at Marmaduke, who was aiding Sibyll to support her father.
"Do you suspect me still, prince?" he whispered.

The duke shrugged his shoulders, and Adam, breaking from Marmaduke and Sibyll, passed with
tottering steps to the shattered labour of his solitary life.  He looked at the ruin with mournful
despondence, with quivering lips.  "Have you done with me?" then he said, bowing his head lowlily,
for his pride was gone; "may we--that is, I and this, my poor device--withdraw from your palace?
I see we are not fit for kings!"

"Say not so," said the young duke, gently: "we have now convinced ourselves of our error, and
I crave thy pardon, Master Warner, for my harsh dealings.  As for this, thy toy, the king's
workmen shall set it right for thee.  Smith, call the fellows yonder, to help bear this to--"
He paused, and glanced at Hastings.

"To my apartments," said the chamberlain.  "Your Highness may be sure that I will there inspect
it.  Fear not, Master Warner; no further harm shall chance to thy contrivance."

"Come, sir, forgive me," said the duke.  With gracious affability the young prince held out
his hand, the fingers of which sparkled with costly gems, to the old man.  The old man bowed
as if his beard would have swept the earth, but he did not touch the hand.  He seemed still
in a state between dream and reason, life and death: he moved not, spoke not, till the men
came to bear the model; and he then followed it, his arms folded in his gown, till, on entering
the court, it was borne in a contrary direction from his own, to the chamberlain's apartment;
then wistfully pursuing it with his eyes, he uttered such a sigh as might have come from a
resigned father losing the last glimpse of a beloved son.

Richard hesitated a moment, loth to relinquish his research, and doubtful whether to follow
the Eureka for renewed investigation; but partly unwilling to compromise his dignity in the
eyes of Hastings, should his suspicions prove unfounded, and partly indisposed to risk the
displeasure of the vindictive Duchess of Bedford by further molestation of one now under her
protection, he reluctantly trusted all further inquiry to the well-known loyalty of Hastings.
"If Margaret be in London," he muttered to himself as he turned slowly away, "now is the time
to seize and chain the lioness!  Ho, Catesby,-- hither (a valuable man that Catesby--a lawyer's
nurturing with a bloodhound's nature!)--Catesby, while King Edward rides for pleasure, let
thou and I track the scent of his foes.  If the she-wolf of Anjou hath ventured hither, she
hides in some convent or monastery, be sure. See to our palfreys, Catesby!  Strange," added
the prince, muttering to himself, "that I am more restless to guard the crown than he who wears
it!  Nay, a crown is a goodly heirloom in a man's family, and a fair sight to see near--and
near--and near--"

The prince abruptly paused, opened and shut his right hand convulsively, and drew a long sigh.

