Apollo.  I think mere weirdness, grotesque or unusual character, are not sufficient reasons
for making public incidents in which there is an element of the superhuman.  The world, in
spite of its desire to understand the nature of the occult is sick of and refuses to listen
to stories of apparitions which betray no spiritual character or reveal no spiritual law. 
The incident here related is burned into my mind and life, not because of its dramatic intensity
or personal character, but because it was a revelation of the secret of power, a secret which
the wise in good and the wise in evil alike have knowledge of.

My friend Felix was strangely disturbed;  not only were his material affairs unsettled, but
he was also passing through a crisis in his spiritual life.  Two paths were open before him;
On one side lay the dazzling mystery of passion;  on the other "the small old path" held out
its secret and spiritual allurements.  I had hope that he would choose the latter, and as I
was keenly interested in his decision.  I invested the struggle going on in his mind with something
of universal significance, seeing in it a symbol of the strife between "light and darkness
which are the world's eternal ways."  He came in late one evening.  I saw at once by the dim
light that there was something strange in his manner.  I spoke to him in enquiry; he answered
me in a harsh dry voice quite foreign to his usual manner. "Oh, I am not going to trouble myself
any more, I will let things take their course."  This seemed the one idea in his mind, the
one thing he understood clearly was that things were to take their own course;  he failed to
grasp the significance of any other idea or its relative importance.  He answered "Aye, indeed,"
with every appearance of interest and eagerness to some trivial remark about the weather, and
was quite unconcerned about another and most important matter which should have interested
him deeply.  I soon saw what had happened;  his mind, in which forces so evenly balanced had
fought so strenuously, had become utterly wearied out and could work no longer.  A flash of
old intuition illumined it at last,-- it was not wise to strive with such bitterness over life,--therefore
he said to me in memory of this intuition, "I am going to let things take their course."  A
larger tribunal would decide;  he had appealed unto Caesar.  I sent him up to his room and
tried to quiet his fever by magnetization with some success.  He fell asleep, and as I was
rather weary myself I retired soon after.

This was the vision of the night.  It was surely in the room I was lying and on my bed, and
yet space opened on every side with pale, clear light.  A slight wavering figure caught my
eye, a figure that swayed to and fro;  I was struck with its utter feebleness, yet I understood
it was its own will or some quality of its nature which determined that palpitating movement
towards the poles between which it swung.  What were they?  I became silent as night and thought
no more.

Two figures awful in their power opposed each other;  the frail being wavering between them
could by putting out its arms have touched them both.  It alone wavered, for they were silent,
resolute and knit in the conflict of will;  they stirred not a hand nor a foot; there was only
a still quivering now and then as of intense effort, but they made no other movement.  Their
heads were bent forward slightly, their arms folded, their bodies straight, rigid, and inclined
slightly backwards from each other like two spokes of a gigantic wheel.  What were they, these
figures?  I knew not, and yet gazing upon them, thought which took no words to clothe itself
mutely read their meaning.  Here were the culminations of the human, towering images of the
good and evil man may aspire to.  I looked at the face of the evil adept.  His bright red-brown
eyes burned with a strange radiance of power;  I felt an answering emotion of pride, of personal
intoxication, of psychic richness rise up within me gazing upon him.  His face was archetypal;
the abstract passion which eluded me in the features of many people I knew, was here declared,
exultant, defiant, giantesque;  it seem to leap like fire, to be free. In this face I was close
to the legendary past, to the hopeless worlds where men were martyred by stony kings, where
prayer was hopeless, where pity was none.  I traced a resemblance to many of the great Destroyers
in history whose features have been preserved, Napoleon, Ramses and a hundred others, named
and nameless, the long line of those who were crowned and sceptered in cruelty.  His strength
was in human weakness, I saw this, for space and the hearts of men were bare before me.  Out
of space there flowed to him a stream half invisible of red;  it nourished that rich radiant
energy of passion;  it flowed from men as they walked and brooded in loneliness, or as they
tossed in sleep.  I withdrew my gaze from this face which awoke in me a lurid sense accompaniment,
and turned it on the other. An aura of pale soft blue was around this figure through which
gleamed an underlight as of universal gold.  The vision was already dim and departing, but
I caught a glimpse of a face godlike in its calm, terrible in the beauty of a life we know
only in dreams, with strength which is the end of the hero's toil, which belongs to the many
times martyred soul;  yet not far away not in the past was its power, it was the might of life
which exists eternally.  I understood how easy it would have been for this one to have ended
the conflict, to have gained a material victory by its power, but this would not have touched
on or furthered its spiritual ends.  Only its real being had force to attract that real being
which was shrouded in the wavering figure.  This truth the adept of darkness knew also and
therefore he intensified within the sense of pride and passionate personality.  Therefore they
stirred not a hand nor a foot while under the stimulus of their presence culminated the good
and evil in the life which had appealed to a higher tribunal to decide. Then this figure wavering
between the two moved forward and touched with its hand the Son of Light.  All at once the
scene and actors vanished, and the eye that saw them was closed, I was alone with darkness
and a hurricane of thoughts.

Strange and powerful figures!  I knew your secret of strength, it is only to be, nature quickened
by your presence leaps up in response. I knew no less the freedom of that human soul, for your
power only revealed its unmanifest nature, it but precipitated experience. I knew that although
the gods and cosmic powers may war over us for ever, it is we alone declare them victors or
vanquished.

For the rest the vision of that night was prophetic, and the feet of my friend are now set
on that way which was the innermost impulse of his soul.

--May 15, 1893

The Priestess of the Woods

Here is a legend whispered to me, the land or time I cannot tell, it may have been in the old
Atlantean days.  There were vast woods and a young priestess ruled them;  she presided at the
festivals and sacrificed at the altar for the people, interceding with the spirits of fire,
water air and earth, that the harvest might not be burned up, nor drenched with the floods,
nor town by storms and that the blight might not fall upon it, which things the elemental spirits
sometimes brought about.  This woodland sovereignty was her heritage from her father who was
a mighty magician before her. Around her young days floated the faery presences;  she knew
them as other children know the flowers having neither fear nor wonder for them.  She saw deeper
things also;  as a little child, wrapped up in her bearskin, she watched with awe her father
engaged in mystic rites;  when around him the airy legions gathered from the populous elements,
the spirits he ruled and the spirits he bowed down before: fleeting nebulous things white as
foam coming forth from the great deep who fled away at the waving of his hand;  and rarer the
great sons of fire, bright and transparent as glass, who though near seemed yet far away and
were still and swift as the figures that glance in a crystal.  So the child grew up full of
mystery;  her thoughts were not the thoughts of the people about her, nor their affections
her affections.  It seemed as if the elf-things or beings carved by the thought of the magician,
pushed aside by his strong will and falling away from him, entering into the child became part
of her, linking her to the elemental beings who live in the star-soul that glows within the
earth.  Her father told her such things as she asked, but he died while she was yet young and
she knew not his aim, what man is, or what is his destiny;  but she knew the ways of every
order of spirit that goes about clad in a form, how some were to be dreaded and some to be
loved;  By reason of this knowledge she succeeded as priestess to the shrine, and held the
sway of beauty and youth, of wisdom and mystery over the people dwelling in the woods.

It was the evening of the autumn festival, the open grassy space before the altar was crowded
with figures, hunters with their feathered heads;  shepherds, those who toil in the fields,
the old and hoary were gathered around.

The young priestess stood up before them;  she was pale from vigil, and the sunlight coming
through the misty evening air fell upon her swaying arms and her dress with its curious embroidery
of peacock's feathers;  the dark hollows of her eyes were alight and as she spoke inspiration
came to her;  her voice rose and fell, commanding, warning, whispering, beseeching;  its strange
rich music flooded the woods and pierced through and through with awe the hearts of those who
listened.  She spoke of the mysteries of that unseen nature;  how man is watched and ringed
round with hosts who war upon him, who wither up his joys by their breath;  she spoke of the
gnomes who rise up in the woodland paths with damp arms grasping from their earthy bed.

"Dreadful" she said "are the elementals who live in the hidden waters: they rule the dreaming
heart:  their curse is forgetfulness;  they lull man to fatal rest, with drowsy fingers feeling
to put out his fire of life.  But the most of all, dread the powers that move in air; their
nature is desire unquenchable;  their destiny is--never to be fulfilled--never to be at peace:
they roam hither and thither like the winds they guide;  they usurp dominion over the passionate
and tender soul, but they love not in our way;  where they dwell the heart is a madness and
the feet are filled with a hurrying fever, and night has no sleep and day holds no joy in its
sunlit cup. Listen not to their whisper;  they wither and burn up the body with their fire;
the beauty they offer is smitten through and through with unappeasable anguish."  She paused
for a moment;  here terrible breath had hardly ceased to thrill them, when another voice was
heard singing;  its note was gay and triumphant, it broke the spell of fear upon the people,

"I never heed by waste or wood
        The cry of fay or faery thing
Who tell of their own solitude;
        Above them all my soul is king.

The royal robe as king I wear
        Trails all along the fields of light;
Its silent blue and silver bear
        For gems the starry dust of night.

The breath of joy unceasingly
        Waves to and fro its fold star-lit,
And far beyond earth's misery
        I live and breathe the joy of it."

The priestess advanced from the altar, her eyes sought for the singer; when she came to the
centre of the opening she paused and waited silently.  Almost immediately a young man carrying
a small lyre stepped out of the crowd and stood before her;  he did not seem older than the
priestess;  he stood unconcerned though her dark eyes blazed at the intrusion;  he met her
gaze fearlessly;  his eyes looked into hers--in this way all proud spirits do battle. Her eyes
were black with almost a purple tinge, eyes that had looked into the dark ways of nature; 
his were bronze, and a golden tinge, a mystic opulence of vitality seemed to dance in their
depths; they dazzled the young priestess with the secrecy of joy;  her eyes fell for a moment.
He turned round and cried out, "Your priestess speaks but half truths, her eyes have seen but
her heart does not know. Life is not terrible but is full of joy.  Listen to me.  I passed
by while she spake, and I saw that a fear lay upon every man, and you shivered thinking of
your homeward path, fearful as rabbits of the unseen things, and forgetful how you have laughed
at death facing the monsters who crush down the forests.   Do you not know that you are greater
than all these spirits before who you bow in dread; your life springs from a deeper source.
Answer me, priestess, where go the fire-spirits when winter seizes the world?"

"Into the Fire-King they go, they dream in his heart."  She half chanted, the passion of her
speech not yet fallen away from her. "And where go the fires of men when they despair"?  She
was silent; then he continued half in scorn,  "Your priestess is the priestess of ghouls and
fays rather than a priestess of men;  her wisdom is not for you;  the spirits that haunt the
elements are hostile because they see you full of fear;  do not dread them and their hatred
will vanish.  The great heart of the earth is full of laughter;  do not put yourselves apart
from its joy, for its soul is your soul and its joy is your true being."

He turned and passed through the crowd;  the priestess made a motion as if she would have stayed
him, then she drew herself up proudly and refrained.  They heard his voice again singing as
he passed into the darkening woods,

"The spirits to the fire-king throng
        Each in the winter of his day:
And all who listen to their song
        Follow them after in that way.

They seek the heart-hold of the king,
        They build within his halls of fire,
Their dreams flash like the peacock's wing,
        They glow with sun-hues of desire.

I follow in no faery ways;
        I heed no voice of fay or elf;
I in the winter of my days
        Rest in the high ancestral self."

The rites interrupted by the stranger did not continue much longer; the priestess concluded
her words of warning;  she did not try to remove the impression created by the poet's song,
she only said, "His wisdom may be truer.  It is more beautiful than the knowledge we inherit."

The days passed on;  autumn died into winter, spring came again and summer, and the seasons
which brought change to the earth brought change to the young priestess.  She sought no longer
to hold sway over the elemental tribes, and her empire over them departed:  the song of the
poet rang for ever in her ears;  its proud assertion of kingship and joy in the radiance of
a deeper life haunted her like truth;  but such a life seemed unattainable by her and a deep
sadness rested in her heart.  The wood-people often saw her sitting in the evening where the
sunlight fell along the pool, waving slowly its azure and amethyst, sparkling and flashing
in crystal and gold, melting as if a phantom Bird of Paradise were fading away;  her dark head
was bowed in melancholy and all the great beauty flamed and died away unheeded.  After a time
she rose up and moved about, she spoke more frequently to the people who had not dared to question
her, she grew into a more human softness, they feared her less and loved her more;  but she
ceased not from her passionate vigils and her step faltered and her cheek paled, and her eager
spirit took flight when the diamond glow of winter broke out over the world.  The poet came
again in the summer;  they told him of the change they could not understand, but he fathomed
the depths of this wild nature, and half in gladness, half in sorrow, he carved an epitaph
over her tomb near the altar,

Where is the priestess of this shrine,
        And by what place does she adore?
The woodland haunt below the pine
        Now hears her whisper nevermore.

Ah, wrapped in her own beauty now
        She dreams a dream that shall not cease;
Priestess, to her own soul to bow
        Is hers in everlasting peace.

--July 15, 1893

A Tragedy in the Temple

I have often thought with sadness over the fate of that comrade. That so ardent and heroic
a spirit, so much chivalry and generosity should meet such a horrible fate, has often made
me wonder if there is any purpose in this tangled being of ours;  I have hated life and the
gods as I thought of it.  What brought him out of those great deserts where his youth was spent,
where his soul grew vast knowing only of two changes, the blaze of day and night the purifier,
blue, mysterious, ecstatic with starry being?  Were not these enough for him?  Could the fire
of the altar inspire more?  Could he be initiated deeper in the chambers of the temple than
in those great and lonely places where God and man are alone together?  This was my doing;
resting in his tent when I crossed the desert, I had spoken to him of that old wisdom which
the priests of the inner temple keep and hand down from one to the other;  I blew to flame
the mystic fire which already smouldered within him, and filled with the vast ambition of God,
he left his tribe and entered the priesthood as neophyte in the Temple of Isthar, below Ninevah.

I had sometimes to journey thither bearing messages from our high priest, and so as time passed
my friendship with Asur grew deep. That last evening when I sat with him on the terrace that
roofed the temple, he was more silent than I had known him before to be; we had generally so
many things to speak of;  for he told me all his dreams, such vague titanic impulses as the
soul has in the fresh first years of its awakening, when no experience hinders with memory
its flights of aspiration, and no anguish has made it wise.  But that evening there was, I
thought, something missing; a curious feverishness seemed to have replaced the cool and hardy
purity of manner which was natural to him;  his eyes had a strange glow, fitful and eager;
I saw by the starlight how restless his fingers were, they intertwined, twisted, and writhed
in and out.

We sat long in the rich night together;  then he drew nearer to me and leaned his head near
my shoulder;  he began to whisper incoherently a wild and passionate tale;  the man's soul
was being tempted.

"Brother" he said, "I am haunted by a vision, by a child of the stars as lovely as Isthar's
self;  she visits my dreaming hours, she dazzles me with strange graces, she bewilders with
unspeakable longing.  Sometime, I know, I must go to her, though I perish. When I see her I
forget all else and I have will to resist no longer. The vast and lonely inspiration of the
desert departs from my thought, she and the jewel-light she lives in blot it out.  The thought
of her thrills me like fire.  Brother give me help, ere I go mad or die; she draws me away
from earth and I shall end my days amid strange things, a starry destiny amid starry races."

I was not then wise in these things, I did not know the terrible dangers that lurk in the hidden
ways in which the soul travels. "This" I said " is some delusion.  You have brooded over a
fancy until it has become living;  you have filled your creation with your own passion and
it lingers and tempts you;  even if it were real, it is folly to think of it, we must close
our hearts to passion if we would attain the power and wisdom of Gods."

He shook his head, I could not realize or understand him.  Perhaps if I had known all and could
have warned him, it would have been in vain;  perhaps the soul must work out its own purification
in experience and learn truth and wisdom through being.  Once more he became silent and restless.
I had to bid him farewell as I was to depart on the morrow, but he was present in my thoughts
and I could not sleep because of him;  I felt oppressed with the weight of some doom about
to fall.  To escape from this feeling I rose in adoration to Hea;  I tried to enter into the
light of that Wisdom;  a sudden heart-throb of warning drew me back;  I thought of Asur instinctively,
and thinking of him his image flashed on me.  He moved as if in trance through the glassy waves
of those cosmic waters which everywhere lave and permeate the worlds, and in which our earth
is but a subaqueous mound.  His head was bowed, his form dilated to heroic stature, as if he
conceived of himself as some great thing or as moving to some high destiny;  and this shadow
which was the house of his dreaming soul grew brilliant with the passionate hues of his thought;
some power beyond him drew him forth.  I felt the fever and heat of this inner sphere like
a delirious breath blow fiercely about me;  there was a phosphorescence of hot and lurid colours.
The form of Asur moved towards a light streaming from a grotto, I could see within it burning
gigantic flowers. On one, as on a throne, a figure of weird and wonderful beauty was seated.
I was thrilled with a dreadful horror, I thought of the race of Liliths, and some long forgotten
and tragic legends rose up in my memory of these beings whose soul is but a single and terrible
passion;  whose love too fierce for feebler lives to endure, brings death or madness to men.
I tried to warn, to awaken him from the spell;  my will-call aroused him; he turned, recognized
me and hesitated;  then this figure that lured him rose to her full height;  I saw her in all
her plume of a peacock, it was spotted with gold and green and citron dyes, she raised her
arms upwards, her robe, semi-transparent, purple and starred over with a jewel lustre, fell
in vaporous folds to her feet like the drift over a waterfall.  She turned her head with a
sudden bird-like movement, her strange eyes looked into mine with a prolonged and snaky glance;
I saw her move her arms hither and thither, and the waves of this inner ocean began to darken
and gather about me, to ripple through me with feverish motion.  I fell into a swoon and remembered
nothing more.

I was awakened before dawn, those with whom I was to cross the desert were about to start and
I could remain no longer.  I wrote hurriedly to Asur a message full of warning and entreaty
and set out on my return journey full of evil forebodings.  Some months after I had again to
visit the temple;  it was evening when I arrived; after I had delivered the message with which
I was charged, I asked for Asur.  The priest to whom I spoke did not answer me.  He led me
in silence up to the terrace that overlooked the desolate eastern desert.  The moon was looming
white upon the verge, the world was trembling with heat, the winged bulls along the walls shone
with a dull glow through the sultry air.  The priest pointed to the far end of the terrace.
A figure was seated looking out over the desert, his robes were motionless as if their wrinkles
were carved of stone, his hands lay on his knees, I walked up to him;  I called his name; he
did not stir.  I came nearer and put my face close to his, it was as white as the moon, his
eyes only reflected the light.  I turned away from him sick to the very heart.

--September 15, 1893

